-- Senate Delays Afghan Questions After Petraeus Slumps Over at Witness Table
-- Viola Gienger
-- 2010-06-15T22:25:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/senate-delays-afghan-questions-after-petraeus-slumps-over-at-witness-table.html

          
          
             Senators  Carl Levin  and  John McCain 
cut short their questioning on Afghanistan today after Army
General  David Petraeus , the commander of U.S. forces in the
Middle East, slumped over at the witness table during testimony.  
 Petraeus’s aides escorted him from the room, and he
returned to applause about 30 minutes later with a smile on his
face. He apologized to the panel and explained he had become “a
little lightheaded” from dehydration.  
 Levin, a Michigan Democrat who heads the Senate Armed
Services Committee, and McCain, the panel’s top Republican,
declined Petraeus’s offer to continue with the hearing. Levin
said it would resume tomorrow morning.  
 Levin and McCain, who represents Arizona, had pressed
Petraeus on the war as the general and Undersecretary of Defense
for Policy  Michele Flournoy  sought to reassure lawmakers that
the military campaign was making progress. The U.S. and its
allies are counting on making enough inroads against the Taliban
to begin withdrawing troops in July 2011.  
 President  Barack Obama  set that timeline in December as he
announced an influx of troops to Afghanistan. Petraeus paused
when Levin asked whether his support of the timeline represented
the commander’s “best personal professional judgment.”  
 ‘Perfect World’  
 “In a perfect world, Mr. Chairman, we have to be very
careful with timelines,” Petraeus said. He noted that he
established a schedule for withdrawing troops from Iraq, and
said “we are assuming that we will have those kinds of
conditions that will enable” the Afghan draw down to begin in
July 2011.  
 Pressed by Levin on whether that meant a “qualified” yes
in support of Obama’s policy or a ‘no,’ Petraeus said, “a
qualified yes.” The president’s timeline “did not imply a race
to the exits” as much as “a need for greater urgency,” he
said.  
 The  NATO -led forces in Afghanistan are fighting to keep the
Taliban at bay in southern Helmand Province after an offensive
in February and to marginalize the militants’ influence in
nearby  Kandahar Province.  
 McCain criticized the July 2011 target, saying it has
emboldened the Taliban and contributed to Afghans and the
neighboring Pakistan government hedging their bets over who
would be in control as U.S. troops begin to depart. He also
questioned Petraeus on how much he supported the strategy.  
 Not Easy  
 “None of this is easy or without considerable
challenges,” Petraeus said in his opening remarks. “The
mission is, as the members of this committee clearly recognize,
hugely important to the security of the region and of our
country.”  
 Senator  Jack Reed , a Rhode Island Democrat, said the
difficulties this year had been predicted by military leaders
and the administration because of the planned offensives and the
need to get the Afghan government more involved.  
 He dismissed concern that the July 2011 date heartens the
Taliban, saying their stepped up attacks are more likely to
indicate that they fear losing the fight.  
 “Everyone I listen to predicted that this would be a very
difficult summer,” Reed told reporters at the Capitol today.
“I think the key question is really not NATO’s military
performance but whether the Afghan government” is making
headway, he said.  
 ‘Pockets of Confidence’  
 Flournoy said U.S. officials saw an increasing number of
“pockets of confidence” among Afghan civilians, and that the
percentage of “complex attacks” by the Taliban has decreased
steadily since February. The average number of casualties in
each of their assaults is below 2009 levels, she said.  
 “The nature of recent insurgent attacks is beginning to
indicate a possible reduction in some of their operational
capacity,” Flournoy told the committee.  
 Petraeus cited “early progress” as Obama’s authorized
addition of 30,000 forces nears completion and the coalition
overhauls its approach to training Afghan soldiers and police.  
 McCain was reiterating his admiration for the task the U.S.
military is undertaking in Afghanistan and saying Petraeus is
“one of America’s great heroes” when the general slumped next
to Flournoy at the witness table.  
 A doctor attended Petraeus in a holding room at the back of
the dias and cleared him to return to the hearing, said U.S.
Army Colonel Erik Gunhus, the general’s spokesman.  
 Petraeus, 57, apologized to the panel as he sat back down
at the table. “It wasn’t Senator McCain’s questions,” he
quipped. “I just got dehydrated.”  
 Gunhus said Petraeus planned to keep to his schedule of
meetings in Washington today.  
 Petraeus returned three days ago to Tampa, where his
Central Command headquarters is located, after a week of travel
to Jordan and London, Gunhus said. He flew to Washington
yesterday and hadn’t had much to drink this morning, the
spokesman said.  
 “He probably had a little jet lag,” Gunhus said. “He was
definitely dehydrated.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Viola Gienger   in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        