-- Singapore Employers Added More Jobs Than Estimated (Correct)
-- Shamim Adam
-- 2010-06-16T10:32:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/singapore-s-employers-added-more-jobs-than-estimated-as-economy-rebounded.html

          
          
             (Corrects eighth paragraph to reflect revised number for
job vacancies in December, in story that was originally
published June 15.)  
 Singapore employers added more jobs
than initially estimated last quarter, pushing the unemployment
rate to the lowest level in almost two years as a strengthening
economy boosted hiring sentiment.  
 The city state added 36,500 jobs, compared with an earlier
forecast of 34,000, according to revised figures released by the
Ministry of Manpower today. The seasonally adjusted unemployment
rate fell to 2.2 percent in the three months through March from
2.3 percent the previous quarter.  
 The opening of Singapore’s two casino resorts this year,
which include a theme park and convention centers, is spurring
tourism and fueling employment. The job gains have led to the
first increase in average wages in more than a year, supporting
consumer spending. A separate report today may show retail sales
resumed growth in April, according to the median forecast of
eight economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  
 “The hospitality industry with the opening of the casino
resorts is leading the way in hiring while the rebound in export
demand is supporting jobs growth in the manufacturing sector,”
said Vishnu Varathan, an economist at Forecast Pte in Singapore.
“The tightening of the labor market may lead to a build-up in
wage pressures.”  
 Singapore’s economy expanded an annualized 38.6 percent
from the previous three months in the first quarter, and the
government has raised its growth forecast twice this year as
Asia leads a rebound from last year’s global slump. The nation
expects the economy to grow as much as 9 percent this year.  
 Services, Manufacturing  
 “The strong economic recovery has led to more people
securing jobs,” the ministry said. “Employment grew strongly,
contributing to an improvement in unemployment for the second
straight quarter as redundancies remained at pre-recessionary
levels.”  
 Services companies, such as Genting Singapore Plc, added
33,400 positions in the first quarter, while the manufacturing
industry created 3,100 jobs in the same period. The construction
industry lost 400 workers, the report showed.  
 There were 37,300 job vacancies as of March, compared with
35,800 at the end of December, according to today’s report.
Average wages before adjusting for inflation rose 3.7 percent in
the three months through March from a year earlier, after
declining for four quarters.  
 Singapore’s unemployment rate may be 2 percent by the end
of 2010, according to the median estimate in a survey of 19
economists by the Monetary Authority of Singapore released last
week.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore   sadam2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Construction workers put the finishing touches on the pavement outside the shopping mall of the Las Vegas Sands Marina Bay Sands casino and resort, in Singapore. Photographer: Charles Pertwee/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Construction workers at Marina Bay Sands  
                       
                         
                           Charles Pertwee/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Construction workers labor on the Las Vegas Sands Marina Bay Sands casino and resort, in Singapore. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Construction workers labor on the Las Vegas Sands Marina Bay Sands casino and resort, in Singapore. Photographer: Charles Pertwee/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A construction worker speaks on his mobile phone in front of a soon-to-be-opened clothing store at the shopping mall of the Las Vegas Sands Marina Bay Sands casino and resort, in Singapore. Photographer: Charles Pertwee/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Visitors line up to have their picture taken with a Marilyn Monroe impersonator at the Universal Studios Singapore theme park at Genting Singapore's Resorts World Sentosa. Photographer: Munshi Ahmed/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Visitors walk through Hollywood-styled shops at the Universal Studios Singapore theme park at Genting Singapore's Resorts World Sentosa. Photographer: Munshi Ahmed/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
