-- Singapore Mercantile Exchange to Start Brent Futures Contracts in Euros
-- Yee Kai Pin
-- 2010-06-15T02:40:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/singapore-mercantile-exchange-to-start-brent-futures-contracts-in-euros.html

          
          
             The  Singapore Mercantile Exchange 
will offer cash-settled futures contracts in euros for Brent
crude oil, a North Sea grade widely traded in London, providing
traders a currency hedge.  
 The city-state’s second commodity exchange will clear
contracts in 1,000-barrel sizes, it said today in an e-mailed
statement, without saying when trading will begin. The volume is
similar to contracts on the ICE Futures exchange, which are
 denominated  in dollars. Prices will be quoted for 12 consecutive
months, compared with 72 on ICE.  
 The euro has fallen about 15 percent against the dollar
this year on concern Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis will derail
the region’s economies. Singapore is the world’s third-largest
oil-trading center after London and New York.  
 The contract will be a “perfect hedge” for traders with
euro-related energy business, Chief Executive Officer  Thomas McMahon  said in the statement. Companies with U.S. dollar
exposure could also diversify their currency hedging
requirements, he said.  
 ICE, or IntercontinentalExchange Inc., cleared 28.24
million Brent futures contracts in 2009, equivalent to 77.4
million barrels a day, based on data compiled by Bloomberg. The
International Energy Agency on June 10 predicted global oil
demand will rise 2 percent this year to a record 86.4 million
barrels a day.  
 Brent in Asia  
 Brent “represents the supply and demand fundamentals,
particularly, in the Asian region,” according to the Singapore
Mercantile Exchange statement. The bourse is backed by  Financial
Technologies (India) Ltd. , which operates the largest commodity
bourse in India. Other commodity exchanges in Asia include
Singapore Commodity Exchange and projects in China, Tokyo and
Dubai.  
 Brent crude traded in London at $75.13 a barrel at 10:11
a.m. Singapore time. The contract has risen 8 percent in the
past year.  
 The Singapore Mercantile Exchange will begin commodity
transactions in August, starting with West Texas Intermediate
crude and gold futures contracts.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yee Kai Pin  in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        