-- Singapore, Thailand Backslide in Trafficking Fight, U.S. Says
-- Nicole Gaouette
-- 2010-06-15T11:03:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/singapore-thailand-vietnam-added-to-human-trafficking-watchlist-by-u-s-.html

          
          
             Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam all
regressed last year in their efforts to battle trafficking of
men, women and children for labor or commercial sex, according
to the U.S.  State Department .  
 The three Southeast Asian countries were placed on a  watch
list  of middle-tier countries, putting them one level above the
worst offenders such as North Korea, Myanmar and Saudi Arabia,
the report said. Malaysia was upgraded from the worst ranking,
while Cambodia and Pakistan were removed from the watch list.  
 The department’s 10th  annual report  grades 175 nations on
their efforts to fight this modern form of slavery. The U.S. is
listed for the first time, placed among those countries that are
doing their best to comply with the Trafficking Victims
Protection Act, the American law against human trade.  
 Singapore’s government showed an “inadequate response” to
sex trafficking in the city-state with only two convictions last
year, the report said. Thailand and Vietnam similarly made
little progress in prosecuting trafficking offenders, it said.  
 ‘Certainly Not Weakened’  
 “The Singapore government is committed to tackling the
trafficking in persons issue and our efforts in dealing with
this issue have certainly not weakened since last year,” the
Ministry of Foreign Affairs said in an e-mailed statement. “It
is rather puzzling because the U.S. has not satisfactorily
explained how it had arrived at its conclusions.”  
 Thailand “has expressed its disappointment” with the
report, foreign ministry spokesman  Thani Thongphakdi  said by
telephone. “We believe that the report did not give due
recognition to Thailand’s efforts to address the trafficking
problem,” he said. “Be that as it may, we will continue with
our efforts to prevent and suppress the trafficking problem.”  
 Malaysia moved out of the worst tier with increased
criminal charges against offenders, according to the report.
Cambodian authorities made a “significant increase” in
convictions over the past year, including a public official, and
Pakistan boosted efforts to combat bonded labor, the U.S. said.  
 The U.S. is a source as well as a transit and destination
country for people forced into labor, debt bondage and
prostitution, according to the report. The work is predominantly
in manufacturing, janitorial services, agriculture, hotel
services, construction, nail salons, elder care, strip-club
dancing and domestic servitude, the U.S. said.  
 ‘Tears of Families’  
 “Behind these statistics on the pages are the struggles of
real human beings, the tears of families who may never see their
children, the despair and indignity of those suffering under the
worst forms of exploitation,” Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said at a State Department event to mark the release of
the report yesterday in Washington.  
 The  International Labor Organization  estimated there were
12.3 million victims of forced labor, sex trafficking, debt
bondage and recruitment of child soldiers worldwide in 2009. In
the same year, there were 4,166 successful prosecutions for
trafficking, the State Department report said.  
 The U.S. report lists three tiers of nations. Among those
in the bottom section -- nations that don’t comply with the law
and make no effort to do so -- are Zimbabwe, Cuba, Mauritania
and Sudan.  
 Japan, Israel and Oman are listed in the middle tier --
nations that don’t fully meet the law’s minimum standards yet
are making “significant” efforts to do so. Oil-rich Qatar is
listed in between the middle and lowest tier on a watch list of
countries that don’t meet minimum standards and whose progress
is less certain.  
 The trafficking report calls for better law enforcement,
improved laws and more prosecutions for trafficking. The report
changes each year and countries can move from tier one, where
the U.S. and others are, to the bottom tier.  
 ‘Political Ritual’  
 The Singapore government described the report as more of a
“political ritual” than an “objective study.”  
 “How, for example, can the U.S. rank itself in tier one
when it is well known that the U.S. has been unable to stem a
flood of illegal workers, many of whom are trafficked by
organized criminal gangs?” Singapore’s foreign affairs ministry
said. “It has not been able to cope adequately with the problem
and that is among the reasons why immigration is such a hot
political issue in the U.S.”  
 This year, 22 countries were upgraded, including Djibouti,
which moved from the second tier to the first, while 19 lost
ground, such as the Dominican Republic, which slipped from tier
two to tier three.  
 Sixty-two countries on the list have never prosecuted
trafficking, according to the report.  
 “Most countries that deny the existence of victims of
modern slavery within their borders are not looking, trying or
living up to the mandates” of a United Nations protocol against
trafficking, according to the State Department report.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Ten Kate  in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
 Nicole Gaouette  in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A woman walks past a giant anti-human trafficking campaign poster displayed at an Immigration Bureau in Bangkok. Photographer: Pornchai Kittiwongsakul/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
