-- Societe Generale Seeks 2012 Earnings of About $7.3 Billion on CIB, Russia
-- Fabio Benedetti-Valentini
-- 2010-06-15T16:15:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/socgen-forecasts-7-3-billion-profit-in-2012-on-russia-investment-growth.html

          
          
             Societe Generale SA , France’s
second-biggest lender by market value, aims to double profit to
about 6 billion euros ($7.3 billion) in 2012, driven by growth
at the corporate and investment bank and in Russia.  
 Societe Generale expects  net income  of between 2.3 billion
euros and 2.8 billion euros at its corporate and investment bank
in 2012, the Paris-based lender said today. The bank forecasts
that Russia will be the largest contributor to international
retail earnings in 2015.  
 Chief Executive Officer  Frederic Oudea , who took over two
years ago after a record trading loss shook the bank, told
journalists in Paris today that earnings will rise in 2010,
while the effects of the financial crisis will linger. The CEO
until now has cut risks and reinforced controls to boost profit
at the investment-banking unit.  
 ”2010 is going to be a year of rebound, but there will
still be an impact from the crisis,” Oudea, 46, told reporters
before making a presentation to investors.  
 Societe Generale  rose  1.36 euros, or 3.9 percent, to 36.40
euros in Paris trading, outpacing the 1.5 percent increase in
the  Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index . The
stock has declined 26 percent this year amid concern that
Greece’s budget woes will spread to other debt-ridden euro-
region countries and threaten an economic recovery.  
 Default Scenarios  
 Oudea said that Societe Generale is less exposed than some
competitors to a possible slowdown in economic growth related to
sovereign-debt concerns, and added he doesn’t “believe at all
in scenarios of default of this or that country in Europe.”  
 The bonds of euro nations including Greece, Ireland and
Spain fell relative to benchmark German bunds today after
Greece’s credit rating was cut to junk by Moody’s Investors
Service.  
 Societe Generale said last month it had about 13 billion
euros at risk with five governments including Greece and Spain
at the end of 2009 and that it hasn’t “dramatically” changed
since then. The other countries included in the figure are
Ireland, Portugal and Italy, the bank said May 5, declining to
break down the figures by country.  
 Oudea said today the bank has “moderate” holdings of
government debt in this group of European countries.  
 Risky Assets  
 The French bank plans a capital increase of 340 million
euros at its Geniki SA unit in Greece by the end of this year as
the situation at the division is “worsening in 2010 due to the
crisis,”  Jean-Louis Mattei , head of the lender’s international-
banking business, said today at the presentation.  
 Societe Generale expects net income to improve this year as
it cuts losses from 37 billion euros of risky assets, and the
company may seek partnerships to help maintain its independence,
Oudea said last month. The bank said today earnings in the
second quarter are in line with its current full-year  target .
Societe Generale has forecast 2010 profit of 3 billion euros.
Second-quarter activity in equities has been mixed, the French
lender said, hurt by reduced risk appetite. The bank confirmed
that risky assets will generate losses of between 700 million
euros and 1 billion euros this year.  
 Societe Generale doesn’t expect a “big hit” from the
risky assets in the second quarter, Chief Financial Officer
 Didier Valet  said today at the presentation.  
 ‘Natural Reduction’  
 Those assets will fall 60 percent to 14 billion euros by
2015 by “natural reduction,”  Michel Peretie , head of the
corporate and investment bank, told investors. “It will no
longer be a source of concern,” he said, adding that the assets
are “correctly marked.”  
 Societe Generale said today the risky-assets portfolio “at
maturity” may generate 1.5 billion euros of pretax gains,
according to an independent valuation by BlackRock Solutions.  
 Societe Generale caught investors off guard twice in the
past four quarters by saying before a planned earnings
announcement that it would have only a “slight” profit.  
 Last month, it posted 1.06 billion euros in first-quarter
 net income , beating analysts’ estimates, on a rebound at its
corporate and investment-banking unit.  
 The corporate- and investment-banking  unit ’s profit totaled
541 million euros in the first quarter, compared with a 171
million-euro loss a year earlier, the bank said May 5. Revenue
at the division rose 74 percent to 2.14 billion euros in the
first quarter. The bank has said that it expects the unit will
have about 8 billion euros of revenue this year.  
 The French lender forecasts 9.5 billion euros of revenue at
the division by 2012, Deputy CEO  Severin Cabannes  said today.  
 Asset Sales  
 The bank may consider asset sales to fund future
acquisitions, Oudea said. The CEO didn’t name potential
businesses for sale. Societe Generale last year raised 4.8
billion euros to help repay 3.4 billion euros of state funds,
bolster capital and make acquisitions in retail and private
banking.  
 Since the capital increase, the company expanded its French
retail networks. In December it agreed to pay 676 million euros
to Dexia SA to take full control of Credit du Nord and Societe
Generale yesterday said it’s in talks with BPCE SA to buy
Societe Marseillaise de Credit for 872 million euros.  
 The lender may also look at “reasonably sized” takeovers
in private banking, Deputy CEO Cabannes said. Societe Generale’s
private bank has about 80 billion euros under management and
expects that to reach 140 billion euros by 2015, he said.  
 To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
 Fabio Benedetti-Valentini  in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Societe Generale chairman and CEO Frederic Oudea speaks at a news conference in Paris. Photographer: Antoine Antoniol/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 15 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Scarlet Fu reports on major newsmakers in today's Movers & Shakers. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
