-- South Korea's Yoon Signals Shift in Stance on Rates as Rebound Accelerates
-- William Sim
-- 2010-06-15T07:02:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/south-korea-s-yoon-signals-shift-in-stance-on-rates-as-rebound-accelerates.html

          
          
             South Korea’s strengthening rebound
has spurred a shift in the government’s stance on risks facing
the economy, with vulnerability to an external slowdown now
balanced by the danger of faster inflation.  
 Finance Minister  Yoon Jeung Hyun  signaled the change
yesterday, saying that “balance is most important for the
second half” and policy makers “have to sustain economic
growth while curbing potential inflation pressures.” The
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said today
price pressures mean the central bank should lift  interest rates .  
 The government’s change, and calls for higher borrowing
costs, reflect South Korea’s resilience so far to Europe’s debt
crisis, with the rebound pulling unemployment down to a 19-month
low in May. Yoon’s comments signal President  Lee Myung Bak ’s
administration may abandon its pressure on the Bank of Korea to
refrain from raising rates, said Kong Dong Rak at Taurus
Investment & Securities Co.  
 “The government is apparently readying for a rate rise,”
said Seoul-based Kong. “They’re now worried about missing a
timely exit as Korea is one of the fastest growing economies. We
may see a rate increase as early as July.”  
 Central bank Governor  Kim Choong Soo  said last week that
policy makers will focus more on “price stability” after
keeping rates unchanged at 2 percent for a 16th month.
Increasing borrowing costs early could help anchor inflation
expectations, the Paris-based OECD said in a report.  
 South Korea’s Kospi index is up 0.4 percent this year
compared with a 5.3 percent drop in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index.  
 ‘Pre-emptive Action’  
 “Such pre-emptive action would avoid another run-up in
inflation, which would likely require a significant tightening
that could undermine the expansion,” the OECD said. It would
also “keep inflation expectations firmly anchored at their
current level of 3 percent.”  
 Consumer prices  rose 2.7 percent in May, accelerating from
a 2.6 percent gain a month earlier, as the cost of food and oil
increased. The central bank is targeting an inflation rate of
between 2 percent and 4 percent, on average, for the three years
to 2012.  
 South Korea’s expansion will “remain on track” with
economic growth of 5.8 percent this year and 4.7 percent in 2011
as exports soar and local demand strengthens, the OECD said.
Gross domestic product grew 2.1 percent in the first quarter
from the previous three months, a June 4 report showed, compared
with an April estimate of 1.8 percent.  
 ‘Sustain Exports’  
 “The recovery in world trade will sustain Korean
exports,” the OECD said. “The impact of buoyant exports will
be increasingly evident in domestic demand, supporting business
investment and employment.”  
 Exports surged 41.9 percent last month as the global
economic recovery boosted demand for Korean made-products like
 Samsung Electronics Co. ’s semiconductors and  Hyundai Motor Co. ’s
cars. The  jobless rate  dropped to 3.2 percent in May, the lowest
level since October 2008.  
 South Korea also needs to limit the risk of sudden capital
outflows as the export-oriented country is “relatively
sensitive to external shocks,” the OECD said. “It is important
to continue building a transparent and sound financial system
that would help maintain investors’ confidence and better absorb
shocks from abroad.”  
 South Korea joined developing nations including Taiwan,
Brazil, Colombia and Russia on June 13 in tightening rules on
 capital flows  to limit swings in their currencies. Foreign and
domestic banks face lower limits on their holdings of exchange
derivatives under the new rules.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
 William Sim  in Seoul at 
 wsim2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        