-- Southern California Home Prices Rise on Tax Credits
-- Daniel Taub
-- 2010-06-15T17:28:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/southern-california-home-prices-rise-on-tax-credits.html

          
          
             Southern California house and
condominium prices rose 23 percent in May from a year earlier as
buyers took advantage of government tax credits and low interest
rates, research company MDA DataQuick said.  
 The median price climbed to $305,000 from $249,000 a year
earlier, MDA DataQuick said today in a statement. Prices rose 7
percent from April in the region encompassing Los Angeles,
Orange, Riverside, San Bernardino, San Diego and Ventura
counties, the San Diego-based company said.  
 Rates for  30-year fixed mortgages  sank to as low as an
average of 4.78 percent in the last week in May, close to the
4.71 percent record from December, according to mortgage finance
company Freddie Mac. Southern California home prices also were
helped by homebuyer tax credits, MDA DataQuick said. To qualify
for a federal credit, buyers were required to sign a contract by
April 30 and complete their purchase by July 1. A state credit
of as much as $10,000 began May 1.  
 “What we saw in May was partly driven by government
stimulus,” said  John Walsh , president of MDA DataQuick. “In
the second half of the year the market will have to stand on its
own again, barring new forms of government involvement.”  
 May was the sixth straight month in which the median price
rose on an annual basis in Southern California. The price was 40
percent less than the peak of $505,000 in 2007, according to MDA
DataQuick.  
 Total Sales  
 A total of 22,270 new and existing homes sold last month in
the six Southern California counties tracked by MDA DataQuick,
up 7.2 percent from a year earlier and 9.7 percent from April.  
 Prices rose in all six Southern California counties
tracked. They climbed the most in San Bernardino County, where
the median was up 17 percent from a year earlier.  
 The number of homes sold rose in Orange, San Diego, Los
Angeles and Ventura counties, and fell in San Bernardino and
Riverside counties, MDA DataQuick said.  
 MDA DataQuick is a unit of Richmond, British Columbia-based
 MacDonald, Dettwiler & Associates Ltd.  It compiles surveys using
county records and supplies real-estate information to public
agencies, lenders and title companies.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Taub  in Los Angeles at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        