-- South Korea, Turkey May Complete Deal to Build a Nuclear Plant Next Year
-- Shinhye Kang
-- 2010-06-15T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/south-korea-turkey-may-complete-deal-to-build-a-nuclear-plant-next-year.html

          
          
             South Korea, which won a $20 billion
atomic reactor order from the United Arab Emirates in December,
said it may sign a contract by the end of next year to build a
nuclear power plant in Turkey.  
 Energy Minister  Choi Kyung Hwan  and his Turkish counterpart
 Taner Yildiz  signed a preliminary agreement to cooperate on the
plant, South Korea’s Ministry of Knowledge Economy said in an e-
mailed statement today. The announcement came after a summit
between South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  and Turkish
President  Abdullah Gul  in Seoul today.  
 South Korea emerged as a major player in the global nuclear
market after state-run  Korea Electric Power Corp.  beat General
Electric Co. and  Areva SA  to win an order to build reactors in
the U.A.E. In March, Turkey and Korea Electric signed an accord
to study construction of a plant in the northern region of Sinop.  
 South Korea said last week that the country may win the
order after a ministerial meeting in the Turkish capital.  
 “I see strong possibilities,” Minister of Knowledge
Economy  Choi  said on June 11 after meeting Yildiz in Ankara,
according to a pooled report from journalists. “I don’t see any
competition because this would be a negotiated contract.”  
 In May, Russia signed an accord with Turkey to build the
country’s first atomic-power plant on the southern coast for $20
billion. Russia will also own the four reactors,  Sergei Kiriyenko , head of Russian state nuclear holding company Rosatom
Corp., told reporters on May 12.  
 The number of reactors globally may double by 2030, driven
by demand in India and China, according to the  World Nuclear
Association . About 435 plants are planned or proposed by 2030,
data from the London-based group show. South Korea aims to
secure contracts valued at $400 billion by 2030.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shinhye Kang  in Seoul at 
 skang24@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        