-- Soybeans Fall, Halting Rally on Rising U.S. Supply; Corn, Wheat Unchanged
-- Tony C. Dreibus
-- 2010-06-15T20:42:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/soybeans-fall-halting-rally-on-rising-u-s-supply-corn-wheat-unchanged.html

          
          
             Soybeans fell for the first time in
three sessions, erasing earlier gains, as farmers may have sold
the oilseed after prices rose, adding to available supplies.
Corn and wheat were unchanged.  
 Soybeans gained 2.4 percent in the two sessions prior to
today, and rose as much as 1.1 percent today before investors
started selling. Farmers who have been keeping inventories off
the market may have sold to exporters and processors to
capitalize on the price increase, said John Christopher, an
analyst at Linn Group in Chicago.  
 “People were waiting to sell into the market,”
Christopher said. Bidders “ran the buy stops above $9.20, and
that gave the market a boost from the get-go. But it lost steam
because there was too much farmer selling,” he said.  
 Soybean futures for November delivery slipped 0.75 cent, or
0.1 percent, to $9.155 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade.
The price earlier jumped to $9.2625 a bushel. The most-active
contract has declined 13 percent this year.  
 Corn and wheat were unchanged as investors weighed the
weaker dollar against improved crop conditions.  
 The  greenback  fell as much as 0.7 percent today against a
basket of six major currencies. About 77 percent of corn was
rated good or excellent as of June 13, up from 76 percent a week
earlier, the U.S. Department of Agriculture said in a  report 
yesterday. About 66 percent of winter wheat earned top ratings,
up from 44 percent at the same time a year ago, the USDA said.  
 Corn futures for December delivery closed at $3.75 a bushel
on the CBOT. Corn is down 9.5 percent this year, partly on
forecasts for increased U.S. production.  
 Wheat futures for September delivery finished at $4.675 a
bushel in Chicago, after advancing the previous three sessions.
Earlier the price fell as much as 1.3 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Dreibus  in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        