-- Spain, Portugal Debt May `Snowball,' EU Draft Says
-- Meera Louis
-- 2010-06-15T15:25:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/spain-portugal-need-more-budget-cuts-debt-may-snowball-eu-draft-says.html

          
          
             Debt levels in Spain and Portugal
may “snowball” in coming years and additional budget cuts are
needed to meet deficit targets announced just a month ago,
according to a draft European Commission document.  
 The deficit-reduction measures announced by the two nations
as part of a European Union agreement on May 10 to create a 750
billion-euro ($920 billion) financial backstop for indebted
countries aren’t sufficient, the report obtained by Bloomberg
News said. Spain pledged to cut the EU’s third-highest deficit
to 9.3 percent of gross domestic product this year and to 6
percent in 2011. Portugal vowed to lower its shortfall to 7.3
percent of GDP in 2010 and to 4.6 percent in 2011.  
 “While the newly announced measures are significant and
the targets imply impressive budgetary consolidation, more
measures are needed to meet those targets, in particular for
2011,” according to the draft report, which is dated May 26.
The document, titled “Consolidation Requirement in Spain and
Portugal,” was prepared by the European Commission, the EU’s
executive arm, for the region’s finance ministers.  
 Portugal will need additional measures worth 0.3 percent of
GDP this year and at least 1.5 percent next year to meet their
May 13 deficit goals, the commission document said. Spain could
meet this year’s target with only “marginal” adjustments and
will have to cut at least 1.75 percent of GDP next year to meet
its targets.  
 Deficit Target  
 Spanish Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  said on June 8 that
her government will take “any measures necessary” to meet the
2011 deficit target.  
 The EU praised Portugal and Spain’s efforts to cut their
budget shortfalls, while warning that the austerity measures
needed to trim the deficit are taking place in “adverse context
of low GDP growth, poor competitiveness, stable or declining
prices and wages and high real interest rates. These conditions
result in a high ‘snowball’ effect on the government debt.”  
 The draft report said that only by implementing
“frontloaded consolidation” in addition to meeting the deficit
targets for the next two years will debt in both countries
decline by 2020 from next year’s projected levels of 70.5
percent of GDP for Spain and 80.5 percent for Portugal. In the
worst-case scenario considered in the report, both countries
would have debt of more than 130 percent of GDP in 2020.  
 In a public report today on the deficits of 12 EU countries
including Spain and Portugal, the commission cited the required
budget cuts for 2011 while refraining from mentioning the
“snowball effect.”  
 New Measures  
 “It is essential to substantiate these new measures” to
meet the revised deficit targets for next year, EU Economic and
Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  told a press conference
on the public report in Strasbourg, France.  
 The  yield premiums  investors demand to buy the countries’
benchmark bonds instead of comparable German debt “remain
high,” according to the report, and it called their deficit-
cutting tasks “daunting.”  
 The yield premium, or spread, on 10-year Portuguese
securities over bunds widened 14 basis points today to 272 basis
points, the most in a week, with the Spanish-German spread was
little changed at 205 basis points, according to Bloomberg
generic data.  
 “Our assessment should be taken as early guidance for next
year’s budget in line with recent proposals to enhance economic
governance in Europe,” Rehn said. EU finance ministers last
week backed a Rehn proposal to police national budgets at an
early stage and introduce a wider range of sanctions on
excessive deficits.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Meera Louis  in Brussels at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Portugal has vowed to lower its shortfall to 7.3 percent of GDP in 2010 and to 4.6 percent in 2011.Photographer: Mario Proenca/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 15 (Bloomberg) -- Keith McCullough, chief executive officer of Hedgeye Risk Management and a Bloomberg Television contributing editor, talks about the debt positions and economic outlook for the U.S., Greece and Spain.
     McCullough talks with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
