-- Spain, Portugal Must Specify Budget Steps, EU Says
-- Meera Louis
-- 2010-06-15T17:33:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/spain-portugal-must-specify-steps-for-ambitious-budget-targets-eu-says.html

          
          
             The European Union told Spain and
Portugal their governments must spell out the budget-cutting
measures they plan to implement to reach their “ambitious”
deficit targets for next year.  
 “The targets are appropriately ambitious and imply
substantial fiscal consolidation,” the EU said in a report
released today in Brussels. “Spain and Portugal are expected to
specify measures in their 2011 budgets amounting to 1.75 percent
and 1.5 percent of GDP, respectively, in order to attain the new
targets.”  
 European governments are struggling to cut their budget
gaps and prevent the Greek debt crisis from spreading to other
countries such as Spain and Portugal. EU officials last month
agreed on an unprecedented 750 billion-euro ($922 billion)
rescue package for distressed nations after a separate 110
billion-euro lifeline for Greece failed to contain the turmoil
and shore up the euro.  
 Spain is trying to cut the EU’s  third-largest deficit  in
half over two years while at the same time restructuring the
savings-bank industry, implementing wage cuts and freezing
pensions. The government’s borrowing costs rose at an auction of
12- and 18-month bills in Madrid today amid investor concern the
fiscal crisis may be spreading.  
 Austerity Measures  
 Governments across Europe are implementing austerity
measures as the debt crisis undermines investor confidence and
clouds the economic outlook. German investor sentiment plunged
in June on concern the turmoil will undermine exports and crimp
growth in the region’s biggest economy.  
 Spain has pledged to cut its deficit to 9.3 percent of
gross domestic product this year and 6 percent in 2011. Portugal
said it would reduce its budget shortfall to 7.3 percent of GDP
in 2010 and 4.6 percent in 2011.  
 The two countries “need to substantiate” their deficit-
cutting plans to meet the revised deficit targets for next year,
EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner Olli Rehn  told a
press conference today in Strasbourg, France. “It is essential
to substantiate these new measures.”  
 Spanish Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  said on June 8 that
her government will take “any measures necessary” to meet next
year’s deficit target. Portugal’s Finance Ministry said in a
statement today that the 2011 budget “will adopt all the
necessary measures” to meet its deficit goal.  
 Debt Ratio  
 In today’s report, the EU told both countries that the new
deficit targets “will not be enough to reverse the increasing
trend in the debt ratio by next year.” Citing the “urgency of
reversing debt developments,” the EU said additional budget
cuts by the two governments should “be focused on expenditure
cuts.”  
 The  yield premium  investors demand to buy 10-year Spanish
bonds over comparable German debt rose to a euro-era high of
215.6 basis points on June 8 on speculation Spain may follow
Greece in needing an EU bailout to finance its debt. The  spread 
between 10-year Portuguese securities and bunds widened 19 basis
points today to 278 basis points, the most in a week, according
to Bloomberg generic data.  
 Under the EU’s Stability and Growth Pact, countries with
deficits above the 3 percent limit face fines of as much as 0.5
percent of GDP unless they get the budgets back into compliance.
To date, no country has been fined for flouting the rules of the
pact.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Meera Louis  in Brussels at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A Portuguese flag waves during the commemoration ceremony for the 25th anniversary of the signing of the Treaty of Accession to the European Community by Portugal and Spain. Photographer: Mario Proenca/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
