-- Financial Stress Rebuilds in U.S., Stocks Suffer: Chart of the Day
-- David Wilson
-- 2010-06-15T14:27:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/stress-makes-comeback-in-u-s-financial-system-hurts-stocks-chart-of-day.html

          
          
             Stress on the U.S. financial system
is increasing for the first time since the 2008 credit crisis,
and the shift is hurting share prices.  
 The CHART OF THE DAY compares a financial-stress index,
compiled weekly by the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, with
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Financials Index. The stress gauge is
derived from 18 data series that track interest rates, bond
yields, yield gaps and volatility.  
 Readings for the St. Louis Fed  index  climbed for five
straight weeks after the gauge hit bottom on April 23, the same
day that the S&P 500 rose to this year’s high. While the streak
ended last week, its level of 0.84 was well above the low, 0.06.
Figures above zero indicate financial strains exceed the average
since 1994, when the bank’s data begins. The record is 5.01, set
in October 2008 after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse.  
 “The increase in this barometer is very significant,”
 David A. Rosenberg , chief economist and strategist at Gluskin
Sheff & Associates Inc., wrote in a June 9 commentary. Investors
ought to respond by reducing risk and focusing on assets that
are relatively unaffected by economic swings, he wrote.  
 Financial companies set the pace as the S&P 500 retreated
11 percent from its April 23 peak. The benchmark’s  financials
index  dropped 14 percent, the biggest loss among its 10 main
industry groups.  
 Then again, the financial-stress index’s turnaround may
“reflect more worry than reality about the prospects for a
slowdown in global growth,” St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said yesterday during a  speech  in Tokyo.  
 (To save a copy of the chart, click here.)  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wilson  in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        