-- Swiss Lower House Backs UBS Treaty, Asks for Possibility on Popular Vote
-- Klaus Wille
-- 2010-06-15T16:11:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/swiss-lawmakers-support-agreement-with-u-s-over-ubs-data-seek-referendum.html

          
          
             Lawmakers in the Swiss lower house
today backed a government treaty with the U.S. to disclose
account details about  UBS AG  clients, moving closer to resolving
a two-year conflict over suspected tax evasion.  
 Deputies supported the agreement by 81 votes to 61. They
also backed a proposal to give voters the chance to put the
treaty to a nationwide referendum, placing them at odds with the
upper house, which rejected such a move. The treaty may be
scuppered unless  lawmakers  find a common ground on every aspect
of the deal by the end of the week.  
 UBS, the country’s biggest bank, and the Swiss government
have been trying to avert lawsuits in the U.S. by agreeing to
hand over data of as many as 4,450 suspected tax dodgers.
Failure to approve the treaty may lead the U.S. to take
retaliation measures, putting UBS’s American business at risk.  
 “Lawmakers will eventually approve the treaty without
calling for a referendum,” said  Franco Taisch , a professor of
business law at the University of Lucerne. “The question is too
important” for Switzerland and the current situation “doesn’t
help our reputation abroad.”  
 The referendum isn’t a “killer criterion,” Toni Brunner
of the Swiss People’s Party told Swiss public television today
in an interview after the vote. The party had called for the
referendum possibility during today’s debate.  
 The Swiss government was forced to turn to parliament after
the Federal Administrative Court ruled in January that the tax
deal wasn’t fully enforceable under Swiss law. While some
lawmakers tried to tie their approval to tougher rules for
Switzerland’s banking industry, supporters argued that a
rejection could harm other Swiss banks and have an impact on the
country’s export industry.  
 Political Credibility  
 “This is about our political credibility and our political
reliability,” Swiss Justice Minister  Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf 
said today during the debate in Bern. A rejection would cause
“massive economic disadvantages,” and the government would
like to tackle “questions of the future.”  
 UBS spokesman  Dominique Gerster  declined to comment on the
house vote.  
 UBS  rose  30 centimes, or 2 percent, to 15.51 francs today
in Zurich as the dispute moved closer to a possible resolution.
The lower house in a first vote last week rejected the treaty.
The stock has declined 3.4 percent since the start of the year.  
 The treaty needs approval and a common ground on the
referendum question in both chambers of parliament to come into
force. The upper house already rubber-stamped the accord and
voted against the possibility for a popular referendum.  
 Parliament Session  
 Both chambers have until June 18, the last day of the
parliament’s session, to resolve their differences regarding the
referendum. During that process, each chamber will deal with the
issue in one more separate session. Failure to reach an
agreement would result in a joint commission trying to get over
the disagreements.  
 The U.S. Internal Revenue Service said today its position
remains unchanged and that it will monitor the situation in
Switzerland as the parliamentary session nears its end.  
 “We have an agreement with the Swiss government which
calls for them to provide us with the names and other
information of approximately 4,500 U.S. account-holders at
UBS,” IRS spokesman Frank Keith said in a statement.  
 “We expect that the Swiss government will honor the
agreement it signed and will do so within the agreed upon
timeframes,” Keith said. “While we look forward to a positive
resolution of this matter, we remain prepared to use all
available options, including the U.S. courts, should the present
efforts fail.”  
 Terms of Deal  
 According to the deal with the U.S. government, Switzerland
has until August to order disclosure of the UBS client data. A
popular vote would mean that the country can’t stick to the
treaty’s timetable.  
 A vote for a referendum in both chambers doesn’t
necessarily mean that such a vote will be held. At least 50,000
Swiss voters or eight of the countries’ 26 cantons have to sign
a request for a so-called “optional referendum” to hold such a
popular vote.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Klaus Wille  in Zurich at   kwille@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The UBS AG company logo sits at the bank's headquarters in Zurich. Photographer: Peter Frommenwiler/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
