-- Swiss Market Index Climbs for Fifth Day; UBS, ABB Lead Advancing Shares
-- Julie Cruz
-- 2010-06-15T16:10:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/swiss-market-index-climbs-for-fifth-day-ubs-abb-lead-advancing-shares.html

          
          
             Swiss stocks  advanced for a fifth
day as gains in UBS AG and Adecco SA outweighed a drop in German
investor confidence and a rating downgrade for Greece.  
 UBS, Switzerland’s biggest bank, and Adecco rallied more
than 2 percent.  ABB  increased 0.9 percent as Morgan Stanley
recommended the shares.  
 The  Swiss Market Index , a gauge of the biggest and most
actively traded Swiss companies, rose 0.2 percent to 6,484.73,
the highest close in more than a month. The broader  Swiss
Performance Index  climbed 0.3 percent.  
 Greece’s credit rating was cut to non-investment grade, or
junk, by Moody’s Investors Service late yesterday. The downgrade
threatens to further undermine demand for the debt-strapped
nation’s assets as it struggles to rein in its budget deficit.  
 German investor confidence plunged in June on concern that
the sovereign debt crisis will undermine export prospects and
crimp growth in Europe’s largest economy. The Mannheim-based ZEW
Center for European Economic Research said its index of investor
and analyst expectations, which aims to predict developments six
months ahead, slumped to 28.7 from 45.8 in May.  
 UBS led gaining shares and extended the longest winning
streak since April, adding 2 percent to 15.51 Swiss francs. The
lower house of Switzerland’s parliament gave its final approval
for a treaty allowing the disclosure of up to 4,450 UBS bank
accounts to the U.S., while subjecting it to a popular vote.  
 ‘Political Credibility’  
 “This is about our political credibility and our political
reliability,” said Swiss Justice Minister  Eveline Widmer- Schlumpf  during the debate. A rejection would have caused
“massive economic disadvantages.”  
 Adecco, the world’s largest supplier of temporary workers,
rallied 2.6 percent to 56.1 francs. ABB rose 0.9 percent to
20.95 francs as the world’s largest builder of power-
transmission networks was raised to “overweight” from “equal
weight” at Morgan Stanley.  
 Bellevue Group AG rose 0.9 percent to 35.8 francs. Bellevue
Asset Management created an independent advisory board to detect
trends and investment opportunities in the health-care industry.
The board will be chaired by ex-Roche Holding AG executive
William Burns.  
 Cie. Financiere Richemont SA , the world’s biggest jewelry
maker, dropped 0.7 percent to 41.8 Swiss francs, the biggest
decline among 20 companies in the benchmark SMI.  
 Nestle SA  lost 0.6 percent to 53.85 francs. The world’s
biggest foodmaker said it began legal action against Sara Lee
Corp. in France for alleged patent violations on its Nespresso
coffee-making system.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julie Cruz  in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        