-- Syngenta, Molex, Rysder System, Google, Harrah's: Intellectual Property
-- Victoria Slind-Flor
-- 2010-06-15T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/syngenta-molex-rysder-system-google-harrah-s-intellectual-property.html

          
          
             The day after Solo Cup Co. won an
appeals court ruling making it easier for companies to defeat
lawsuits over marking products with expired patent numbers,
 Syngenta AG  was sued for using the numbers of expired patents.  
 Illinois resident Ted Sprauge filed suit in federal court
in East St. Louis, Illinois, claiming Switzerland’s Syngenta is
selling 37 different products marked with the numbers of 19
expired patents.  
 On June 10 the Washington-based court that hears appeals of
patent cases said Solo Cup hadn’t intended to deceive consumers
when it marked products with the number of an expired patent.
Solo had argued that high costs of new molds without the patent
numbers delayed the numbers’ removals.  
 That case is Matthew A. Pequignot v. Solo Cup Co., 2009-
01547, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Washington). More than 130 similar cases have been filed in
2010.  
 Sprauge asked the court to order Syngenta to pay a fine of
$500 for each item marked with the number of an expired patent,
and for awards of attorney fees and litigation costs.  
 He is represented by  Paul A. Lesko  of  Simmons Browder
Gianaris Angelides and Barnerd LLP  of East Alton, Illinois.  The
case is Sprauge v. Syngenta Crop Protection Inc., 3:10-cv-
000426-JPG-PMF, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
Illinois (East St. Louis).  
 Molex Wins Dismissal of Taiwan Patent Infringement Suit  
 Molex Inc. , a maker of electronic connection devices,
persuaded a Taiwan court to dismiss a patent-infringement suit
brought by Taiwan Electronics Co, the company said in a
statement.  
 The Lisle, Illinois-based company’s Molex Taiwan unit,
which was sued in September 2009, was accused of making
connector sockets and dual plugs that infringed Taiwan
Electronics Co.’s Taiwanese patent M293552.  
 Molex had argued the patent was invalid.  
 The court dismissed all of Taiwan Electronics’ claims
against the company, according to the statement.  
 Ryder Gets U.S. Patent for Supply-Chain Management System  
 Ryder System Inc. , the largest U.S. truck-leasing company,
received a patent for a method of supply-chain management.  
 Patent 7,711,602, which was issued May 4, covers a method
of supply-chain integration that considers such issues as
weight, packaging, stackability, and pallet configuration.  
 Using this method, Ryder can create a shipping plan in
advance of shipping the goods that can control all aspects of
the process. Miami-based Ryder said in a statement this
technology can improve transit time and reduce the cost of
integrating multiple transportation networks.  
 Ecosphere Technologies Seeks Patent on Oil-Spill Cleanup Method  
 Ecosphere Technologies Inc.,  an environmental services
company partially owned by former NFL football players Troy
Aikman and Drew Bledsoe, has applied for a patent on a
technology it says could remove oil from seawater without the
use of chemicals.  
 The Stuart, Florida-based company said in a  statement 
yesterday it’s seeking a U.S. patent on its “Ecosphere
Deepwater Oil Recovery Process,” which used micro bubbles to
raise spilled oil to the water’s surface where it’s split into
highly oxygenated water and concentrated oil.  
 According to the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office, Ecosphere Technologies has  three issued patents , two for
water treatment and a third for a composting toilet that uses
worms. The company also has a published and pending  patent
application  for a worm-composted toilet.  
 Copyright  
 Google’s YouTube Takes Down ‘We Are the World’ Satire Video  
 Google Inc. ’s YouTube video-sharing Web site has removed a
 satiric video  about the Gaza-bound Aid flotilla following a
complaint from the owner of the copyright to the “We Are the
World” song,” the Jerusalem post  reported .  
 The video, made by the satirical website  Latma TV , features
singers, many with fake Arab accents, singing “We Con the
World,” with reference to Israeli naval commandos’ halting of
the flotilla, the newspaper reported.  
 The video, which was viewed by more than 3 million people
before it was removed, had been vetted by Latma TV’s lawyers
before it was posted, according to the newspaper.  
 Latma is waiting for advice from its American lawyers
before asking YouTube to rescind its decision, the Jerusalem
Post reported.  
 Japanese Teenager Arrested for Uploading Manga to YouTube  
 A 14-year-old student was arrested in Japan for uploading
pre-release images of Japanese comics, Agence France-Presse
 reported .  
 He was accused of photographing “manga” comics, and
uploading them to YouTube as a slide show, according to AFP.  
 The teenager used Twitter Inc.’s short message service to
promote his video, AFP reported.  
 Police, who are investigating how the teenager got the pre-
release copies, told AFP he uploaded 119 episodes of about 30
different manga.  
 Trademark  
 BP Mocked in Mississippi’s Application for U.S. Trademark  
 A Mississippi resident has applied to register a trademark
guaranteed to give  BP Plc  heartburn.  
 The London-based oil company that may be barred from doing
business with the U.S. federal government as punishment for the
April 20 explosion and spill in the Gulf of Mexico may be mocked
in ad slogans and cartoons, if John Bourgeois’ application goes
through.  
 Bourgeois, a resident of Olive Branch, Mississippi, filed
an application with the U.S. Patent and Trademark office May 30
to register “BP: Beyond Pathetic” as a trademark.  
 CaféPress, which prints on demand consumer-generated
designs on t-shirts, mugs and other items presently has  one
design  incorporating “beyond pathetic.” It shows a silhouette
of an oil-soaked pelican standing on a tree branch dripping oil
onto the phrase.  
 BP Chief Executive Officer Tony Hayward, who is to meet
with President Barack Obama at the White House this week, also
takes his lumps at CafePress. When accessed yesterday, the
CafePress website had 24 Tony Hayward products for sale.  
 Several were satiric bumper stickers playing off Hayward’s
statement made in May that he would like to have his life back.
One CafePress  bumper sticker  reads “Hey Hayward, I would like
my life back, too!”  
 A  t-shirt  design that mimics various rock band tour t-
shirts features a photo of Hayward as part of the “Ocean
Currents World Tour 2010,” and claims it’s ‘the best in
environmental disasters since 1989.”  
 Harrah’s Unit Sued for Trademark Infringement by Everest Gaming  
 Harrah’s Entertainment Inc. ’s Harrah’s Interactive
Entertainment unit was sued for trademark infringement by a
Malta-based gambling company.  
 The interactive entertainment unit was formed by Harrah’s
in May 2009, and is dedicated to the World Series of Poker.  
 According to the complaint filed June 11 in federal court
in Las Vegas, Harrah’s infringed the trademarks of Everest
Gaming Ltd. by violating a promotional agreement to display the
marks during the television broadcasts and Web transmissions of
the World Series of Poker.  
 Everest claims a $17 million license with Harrah’s was to
ensure the Everest trademarks would be “displayed and
observable” in the World Series of Poker broadcasts and
transmissions. The Malta-based company complained that beginning
in late 2008 or early 2009, for the broadcasts its trademarks
were either “covered up or otherwise obscured,” violating the
license agreement.  
 The company then told Harrah’s it couldn’t use the Everest
trademarks at all in connection with the 2010 version of the
World Series of Poker, according to court papers. Despite this
earning, Everest marks in the felt on the power tables and in
banners, posters and the “inner rung” of tables used at the
2010 tournament are being shown, the company claims.  
 This unauthorized use of the Everest trademarks is causing
the company “irreparable damage,” the company claims.  
 Everest asked the court to bar Harrah’s from any
unauthorized use of the disputed trademarks, and for an award of
profits related to the alleged infringement. The company also
seeks money damages, destruction of all promotional material
bearing the trademarks, and for awards of court costs and
attorney fees.  
 The Malta-based company is represented by  Jay Young ,  David
T. Duncan  and  Liane K. Wakayama  of Las Vegas-based  Marquis &
Aurback .  
 The case is Everest Gaming Ltd. v. Harrah’s Interactive
Entertainment Inc., 2:10-cv-00904, U.S. District Court, District
of Nevada (Las Vegas)  
 Olympic Committee Sues Fuel-Oil Dealer for Infringing Marks  
 The  U.S. Olympic Committee  sued a New York fuel-oil dealer
for trademark infringement.  
 Olympian Fuel & Oil Corp.  of College Point, New York, is
accused of infringing the committee’s marks by using
“Olympian” in its company name. In the complaint filed June 11
in federal court in Brooklyn, New York, the committee claims it
has repeatedly sent the dealer cease-and-desist notices, and has
received assurance that the company “is willing to change its
behavior and come into compliance.”  
 Despite these assurances, Olympian Fuel continues to use
“Olympian” in its name. Such use violated both U.S. trademark
law, and the Ted Stevens Olympic and Amateur Sports Act, which
was enacted in 1998 and granting monopoly status to the
committee, according to court papers.  
 In its pleadings the committee said that because it doesn’t
receive “a substantial portion of its funding” from the
federal government, its control over its trademarks is
“critical to the USOC’s continued ability to fulfill its
federally chartered mission.”  
 In the 2010 Vancouver Winter Games, the committee spent $55
million to train and assemble the American team, and received no
government funding.  
 The committee asked the court to order the fuel company to
quit using the world Olympian “and any other simulations of the
word Olympic.” It also seeks destruction of all signs and
promotional materials that contain the offending word, and for
an award of money damages, attorney fees and litigation
expenses. It asked that the damages be tripled to punish the
fuel company for its alleged infringement.  
 The U.S. Olympic Committee is represented by John P.
Margiotta and  Robert A. Becker  of New York’s  Fross Zelnick
Lehrman & Zissu PC , and  Douglas A. Winthrop  and  Blake J. Lawit 
of San Francisco’s  Howard Rice Nemerovski Canady Falk & Rabkin .  
 The case is U.S. Olympic Committee v. Olympian Fuel & Oil
Corp, 1:10-cv-02673-ARR-RER, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of New York (Brooklyn).  
 Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  
 Conquest Journal a ‘Trade Secret,’ Convicted Sex Offender Claims  
 A convicted sex offender has claimed a journal containing
the names of his teenaged victims is a trade secret and is
seeking to block a court order requiring it be given to lawyers
representing some of the underage girls, the Palm Beach Post
 reported .  
 Jeffrey Epstein argued that because the journal was stolen
by one of his employees, its release breaches an employment-
related confidentiality agreement and could reveal
“commercially sensitive and trade secret information,”
according to the Palm Beach Post.  
 He is presently on parole after serving 13 months of an 18-
month sentence for procuring a minor for prostitution and
soliciting prostitution, the newspaper reported.  
 His former property manager, Alfredo Rodriguez, who has
pleaded guilty to charges of obstruction of justice, stole the
journal and offered it for $50,000 to an attorney representing a
victim of Epstein who has brought a lawsuit against him,
according to the newspaper.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        