-- U.A.E. Will Increase Investment in Iraqi Kurdistan to $6 Billion by 2013
-- Grant Smith
-- 2010-06-15T12:19:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/u-a-e-will-increase-investment-in-iraqi-kurdistan-to-6-billion-by-2013.html

          
          
             The United Arab Emirates will double
its current investment in Iraq’s semi-autonomous Kurdistan
region to $6 billion by 2013, said  Abdullah bin Ahmed al-Saleh ,
director general in the emirates’ Ministry of Foreign Trade.  
 Kurdistan is a important partner for the U.A.E., which is
keen to “develop and upgrade” ties between them, al-Saleh told
delegates today at the  Kurdish Regional Government ’s two-day
trade and investment  conference  in London. Iraq ranks 11th among
his country’s trading partners, al-Saleh said.  
 A delegation of Kurdish cabinet ministers and business
owners accompanied the northern Iraqi region’s prime minister,
 Barham Salih , to the conference with a message that Kurdistan
presents an ideal investment opportunity.  
 More than 1,200 foreign companies work in Iraqi Kurdistan’s
non-oil sectors, including banking, housing and agriculture,
with projects totaling $3 billion over the past 3 1/2 years, the
regional government said.  
 HSBC Holdings Plc ’s Iraqi unit plans to open a branch in
the Kurdish city of Sulaymaniyah and in Zarko, near the region’s
border with Turkey, Michael Hodges, the London-based bank’s
business development director for the Middle East and North
Africa, told the conference.  
 “It is very likely that the first HSBC-branded bank will
open in Kurdistan in a year or so,” Hodges said.  
 The Kurdish-controlled northern provinces of Sulaymaniyah,
Erbil and Dohuk have been ruled by elected officials since 1992.
Ethnic Kurds represent 15 to 20 percent of Iraq’s population of
30 million.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Caroline Alexander  in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net ;
 Grant Smith  in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        