-- U.K. to Remove Barriers to Nuclear Power, Set Carbon Price, Minister Says
-- Kari Lundgren
-- 2010-06-16T11:32:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/u-k-to-remove-barriers-to-nuclear-power-set-carbon-price-hendry-says.html

          
          
             Nuclear power can play a key role in
the U.K.’s future energy mix, Minister  Charles Hendry  told
executives from  Electricite de France SA , Centrica Plc and other
utilities.  
 While the new coalition government won’t subsidize the
industry, it will remove regulatory barriers and encourage
nuclear power by establishing a minimum price for carbon, the
energy minister said at the Nuclear Industry Forum in London.  
 Britain, needing 200 billion pounds ($300 billion) to renew
aging power plants in the next two decades, will have to tap
international investors for the first time, according to the
Department of Energy and Climate Change.  
 “It is for private-sector energy companies to construct,
operate and decommission new nuclear plants,” Hendry, a
Conservative Party lawmaker, said today. “It will be for us to
ensure the appropriate levels of safety, security and
environmental regulation.”  
 Nuclear power was the main dividing line on energy policy
between the two parties that make up the coalition government.
The junior party, the Liberal Democrats, say atomic energy is
too expensive.  Chris Huhne , a Liberal Democrat, is the Cabinet
minister leading Hendry’s department.  
 It was the minister’s first speech on nuclear power since
the coalition came to power last month. The government is
seeking to make the U.K. “one of the most attractive places in
Europe for investment in new nuclear,” Hendry said.  
 EDF’s Planned Investment  
 EDF’s unit in the U.K., which along with Centrica plans to
invest 20 billion pounds in building four new reactors in
Britain, said in May that it’s “ reassured ” by the agreement
struck by the coalition parties allowing Liberal Democrat
lawmakers to abstain from votes on nuclear issues. The
Conservative-led government will still push the technology.  
 “The coalition agreement clearly sees a role for new
nuclear, provided that there is no public subsidy,” Hendry
said. “From the commitment I’ve seen from the nuclear industry,
I have no doubt that you can rise to the challenge.”  
 The newly-elected coalition government, led by Prime
Minister  David Cameron , will make a decision on the level and
timeframe for creating a floor price on carbon dioxide “as soon
as we can,” Hendry said.  
 Guaranteeing a price for European Union greenhouse-gas
permits may help curb emissions in the U.K., which has a
domestic target to cut carbon-dioxide output by 34 percent from
1990 levels by 2020. The country is part of the European Trading
Scheme, the world’s largest emissions market, which is mandatory
for heavy industry and power plants.  
 Not Penalizing  
 “The view is that we can have a carbon floor price so then
if the European Union trading scheme price is below that, then a
supplementary charge will bring it up to that floor,” Hendry
said. “We’re looking to put in place a structure that will
drive new investment,” he said. “This should not be seen as
something that penalizes old plants.”  
 Investors need to know what the cost of emissions is going
to be by 2018 to 2020, the minister said, adding that the
government is consulting a range of stakeholders about what
level the floor should be set at.  
 “If it is set too high, it ends up penalizing consumers,”
he said. “If it is too low, people won’t invest.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kari Lundgren  in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Morales  in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        