-- U.K. Consumer Confidence Slumps Most Since July 2008 as Budget Cuts Loom
-- Scott Hamilton
-- 2010-06-16T10:13:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/u-k-consumer-confidence-slumps-most-since-july-2008-as-budget-cuts-loom.html

          
          
             U.K.  consumer confidence  dropped in
May by the most since July 2008 as Britons became more
pessimistic about the economy, Nationwide Building Society said.  
 The index of sentiment  slumped 10 points from April to 65,
erasing most of the gains in confidence seen in the previous 10
months, the customer-owned lender said in an e-mailed statement
today. A gauge measuring expectations for the economy in the
next six months fell 12 points to 93.  
 The inconclusive May 6 election outcome, Europe’s sovereign
debt crisis and Britain’s emergency budget due next week all
weighed on the minds of consumers during the month, Nationwide
said. U.K.  unemployment  fell in the quarter through April and
jobless benefits dropped last month by more than economists
forecast as the economy shook off the recession.  
 Until “consumers understand where the focus of spending
cuts and tax increases will be, it is possible that confidence
in the economic situation will continue to stutter,”  Martin Gahbauer , chief economist at Nationwide, said in the statement.
“The next couple of months could be critical to the future
direction of the U.K. economy and overall confidence.”  
 Current Perceptions  
 The index measuring people’s current perception of the
economy fell 6 points to 23, the report showed. The gauge of
whether now is a good time to spend was unchanged at 98.  
 The benchmark U.K. government 10-year bond snapped two days
of declines after the report as speculation that government
plans to narrow the budget deficit will hurt economic growth
increased. The 10-year gilt yield fell four basis points to 3.51
percent as of 10:39 a.m. in London. The pound was little changed
against the dollar and trading at $1.4814.  
 Public spending cuts in the June 22 budget will weaken the
economy and lead to hundreds of thousands of job cuts, the
Trades Union Congress, the U.K.’s umbrella group for labor
organizations, said in a separate report today.  
 The  unemployment  rate measured by International Labour
Organization methods slipped to 2.472 million people in the
three months through April from 2.51 million in the first
quarter, the Office for National Statistics said today in
London. The number of people claiming  jobless benefits  dropped
30,900, exceeding the median forecast of 25 economists for a
decline of 20,000.  
 Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  and Bank of
England Governor  Mervyn King  will deliver speeches on the
economy later today at the Mansion House, the official residence
of the Lord Mayor of the City of London, the capital’s financial
district.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 15 (Bloomberg) -- Neil Mackinnon, chief economist at VTB Capital Plc in London, talks about the pace of U.K. inflation and the outlook for economic growth.
     The government reported U.K. inflation slowed in May for the first time in three months to 3.4 percent from a year earlier, compared with 3.7 percent in April. Mackinnon speaks on Bloomberg Television's "The Pulse With Andrea Catherwood." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
