-- U.S. Import Prices Fell 0.6% in May on Cheaper Oil
-- Bob Willis
-- 2010-06-15T12:43:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/u-s-import-prices-decreased-0-6-in-may-on-cheaper-crude-oil.html

          
          
             Prices of goods imported into the
U.S. fell in May, led by the biggest drop in petroleum costs
since December 2008.  
 The 0.6 percent decrease in the  import price index  was less
than the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey and followed
a revised 1.1 percent gain in April that was more than
previously reported, Labor Department figures showed today in
Washington. Prices  excluding petroleum  rose 0.5 percent for a
second month, led by higher costs for capital goods and metals.  
 While global growth has boosted demand and pushed up costs
for some commodities, limited wage pressures have allowed
companies to keep a lid on prices of finished goods. Subdued
inflation will give the Federal Reserve room to keep its
benchmark interest rate near zero for an “extended period.”  
 “You have not yet seen the impact of the appreciation of
the dollar on import prices in the U.S.,” said Zach Pandl, an
economist at Nomura Securities International Inc. in New York.
It’s “positive for the inflation outlook,” he said.  
 Manufacturing in the New York region expanded in June at a
faster pace, signaling factories are driving the economic
recovery. The Fed Bank of New York’s general economic
index rose to 19.6, an 11th consecutive month of growth.
Readings greater than zero signal expansion in the so-called
Empire State Index that covers New York, northern New Jersey and
southern Connecticut.  
 Stock Futures  
 Stock-index futures held earlier gains following the
reports. The contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed
0.7 percent to 1,094.2 at 8:43 a.m. in New York. Treasury
securities were little changed.  
 Economists forecast the import price index would decrease
1.2 percent after a previously reported 0.9 percent gain for
April, according to the median projection in a Bloomberg survey.
The drop was the biggest since July 2009. Estimates of the 54
economists surveyed ranged from gains of 0.5 percent to declines
of as much as 2 percent.  
 Compared with a year earlier, import prices rose 8.6
percent, more than the median forecast of a 7.9 percent gain in
the Bloomberg survey. A jump in petroleum costs since last year
is leading the boost in year-over-year comparisons for inflation
indicators.  
 Crude Oil Imports  
 The cost of imported petroleum fell 5 percent in May. They
were still up 36 percent compared with a year earlier. Excluding
oil, prices rose 3.7 percent from May 2009.  
 Excluding all fuels, import prices increased 0.5 percent
last month. They were up 3.6 percent compared with a year
earlier, the biggest rise since October 2008.  
 The import-price index is the first of three monthly price
gauges from the Labor Department. The department is scheduled to
release the producer price index June 16 and the consumer price
gauge on the following day.  
 “Recent data continue to show a subdued rate of increase
in consumer prices,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told the
House Budget Committee on June 9. He noted that the crisis in
Europe was contributing to “lower prices for oil and some other
globally traded commodities.”  
 Rate Forecast  
 Economists surveyed by Bloomberg in the first week of June
forecast the Fed won’t begin raising its benchmark rate from
near zero until 2011. That compares to last month’s forecast for
a quarter point increase in the fourth quarter of this year.  
 Prices of imported food increased 1.4 percent last month,
compared with a 1.1 percent rise in April. They were up 8.5
percent from a year earlier.  
 Prices of imported automobiles, parts and engines were
unchanged from April and increased 0.4 percent over the past 12
months.  
 Nissan North America , Inc. last week announced U.S. pricing
for its Versa Sedan and Hatchback, with starting suggested
retail price of $9,990, unchanged from 2009.  
 Costs for imported consumer goods excluding autos rose 0.1
percent last month, while prices of capital goods increased 0.2
percent, the most since July 2008.  
 Industrial Supplies  
 Imported industrial supply costs excluding fuel rose 1.9
percent. Base metals prices increased 2 percent after a 4.2
percent surge.  
 The cost of goods from China increased 0.3 percent, while
those from Japan rose 0.1 percent. Goods from Latin America fell
1.6 percent and those from the European Union rose 0.1 percent.  
 The dollar has risen 15 percent against the euro this year
as concern emerged that Greece and possibly other countries in
the European Union may default on their debt. A stronger U.S.
currency will help hold down the price of imports from the
region in coming months.  
 Dow Chemical Co. Chief Executive Officer Andrew Liveris
told investors during a June 2 webcast from New York to “stop
panicking” over the European debt crisis or Chinese efforts to
cool growth. “Demand is good,” he said. April sales for
Midland, Michigan-based Dow Chemical, the world’s second-largest
chemical maker, topped the monthly average in the first quarter
and May was probably stronger.  
 U.S. export prices increased 0.7 percent after rising 1.2
percent in April. Prices of farm exports jumped 1.4 percent,
while those of non-farm goods increased 0.6 percent.  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.S. imports fell 0.6% in May. Photographer: Jim R. Bounds/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
