-- Stocks Jump on Strong Factory Reports
-- Esme E. Deprez
-- 2010-06-15T20:43:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/u-s-futures-rise-greek-bonds-fall-after-downgrade-to-junk-oil-advances.html

          
          
             Stocks surged, with the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index erasing its 2010 loss, and oil rose as growth
in New York manufacturing added to signs the global economy is
weathering Europe’s debt crisis. Greek bonds sank after Moody’s
Investors Service cut the nation’s rating to junk.  
 The S&P 500 climbed 2.4 percent to 1,115.23 at 4 p.m. in
New York, the highest close since May 18, as the Federal Reserve
Bank of New York’s  general economic index  showed an 11th month
of growth. Oil rallied above $77 a barrel and the Reuters/
Jefferies CRB Index of commodities climbed a seventh
straight day, the longest streak since March 2007. Greek 10-year
bond yields jumped 74 basis points to 9.08 percent.  
 Stocks in Europe rebounded from early losses as News
Corp.’s offer for British Sky Broadcasting Plc offset concern
Greece’s downgrade will worsen the region’s debt crisis. U.S.
equities also jumped as a government report showed prices of
imported goods fell in May, led by the biggest drop in petroleum
costs since December 2008, and chipmakers surged on signs of
growing demand.  
 “We’ve moved from recession to recovery and now we’re
moving into expansion,” said  Mike Ryan , New York-based head of
wealth management research for the Americas at UBS Financial
Services Inc., which oversees about $663 billion. “Inflation
remains subdued, suggesting the Fed will remain on the
sidelines. The risk-off trade is starting to ebb a little bit.”  
 ‘Minor Victory’  
 The  S&P 500 ’s rally today lifted it almost 7 points above
1,108.679, its average level over the past 200 days, a bullish
sign to investors who make trading decisions based on charts.
The S&P 500 closed below the 200-day average on May 20 for the
first time since July 2009 and remained under the trend line for
16 straight sessions before today.  
 “It doesn’t tell you that this correction is over but I
think people would look at it as a plus,” said  Michael Shaoul ,
chairman of Marketfield Asset Management, who oversees $770
million and whose flagship fund beat 97 percent of peers over
the last year. “I would call it a minor victory.”  
 The S&P 500 tumbled as much as 14 percent from a 19-month
high on April 23 through June 7 as concern grew that Europe’s
debt crisis will derail the economic recovery and BP Plc’s
leaking well in the Gulf of Mexico triggered the worst oil spill
in U.S. history. The S&P 500 has rebounded 6.2 percent
since June 7 as concern over European budget deficits eased and
investors speculated growth in China and the U.S. will bolster
the global recovery.  
 Chipmaker Forecast  
 S&P 500 semiconductor stocks rallied 4.2 percent for the
top gain among 24 groups after Taiwan Semiconductor
Manufacturing Co., the world’s largest contract maker of chips,
boosted this year’s forecast for global chip industry sales
growth to almost 30 percent. Teradyne Inc. rallied 11 percent
for the biggest gain in the S&P 500. Intel Corp., the world’s
largest chipmaker, rose 2.8 percent.  
 General Electric Co.  and Boeing Co. paced gains in all 57
industrial companies in the S&P 500. The Fed’s so-called Empire
State Index rose to 19.6, in line with the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The 0.6 percent decrease
in the import price index added to evidence that subdued
inflation will give the Federal Reserve room to keep its
benchmark interest rate near zero for an “extended period.”  
 CBOE Debuts  
 CBOE Holdings Inc., the last major U.S. securities exchange
owned by its members, rose on its first day of trading. CBOE
raised $339 million selling 11.7 million shares at $29 each
yesterday. The shares rallied 12 percent to $32.49.  
 Treasuries fell, with the 10-year yield rising 5 basis
points to 3.31 percent, on reduced demand for the relative
safety of government debt. Net buying of long-term U.S.
equities, notes and bonds totaled $83 billion in April, compared
with net purchases of a record $140.5 billion in March, Treasury
Department data showed. Economists in a Bloomberg News survey
projected long-term U.S. financial assets would show a net
increase of $70 billion in April.  
 The MSCI Asia Pacific Index increased 0.2 percent and about
three stocks advanced for each that declined in the Stoxx Europe
600 Index, led by media companies, as the region’s benchmark
gauge climbed for a fifth straight day.  
 BSkyB, the U.K.’s biggest pay-TV provider, surged 17
percent to 700 pence in London after it rejected an offer for
that price from  Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp. The bid amounted to
7.9 billion pounds ($11.5 billion), which would be the biggest
deal in Murdoch’s career, according to Bloomberg data. News
Corp. rallied 9.5 percent in New York, its biggest gain since
March 2009.  
 Emerging Markets  
 The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  of 21 countries gained 0.9
percent, rebounding from a 0.4 percent drop earlier today.
Russia’s Micex index advanced 2.6 percent as oil, the country’s
main export, rallied to a one-month high.  
 The  Dubai Financial Market General Index  dropped 1.3
percent to the lowest level since March 2009, after  Tristan Cooper , a Moody’s analyst, said in an interview in Abu Dhabi
that the emirate’s state-owned companies may have to restructure
more debt.  
 The euro strengthened against 11 of 16 major currencies,
while the dollar weakened against 14. The Dollar Index, which
gauges the currency against six major trading partners, fell for
a second day, dropping 0.6 percent to 85.982.  
 Greek-German Spread  
 The extra yield, or  spread , investors demanded to hold
Greek 10-year bonds instead of German bunds, Europe’s benchmark
government debt securities, widened to 641 basis points, the
highest since May 7, according to Bloomberg generic data. The
bund yield climbed 4 basis points to 2.67 percent.  
 Greek credit swaps signal a 48.5 percent probability the
nation will default within five years. The cost of insuring $10
million of Greece’s bonds for five years jumped $55,500 to
$811,000 a year, making the nation’s debt the third most
expensive to protect after Venezuela and Argentina, according to
CMA DataVision.  
 Standard & Poor’s already cut Greece to below investment
grade on April 27.  
 Greece, Spain and Portugal are cutting spending to tackle
their budget deficits, which swelled as the recession crimped
government tax revenue. Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou 
pledged to bring the deficit, which increased to 13.6 percent of
gross domestic product last year, to 8.1 percent of GDP this
year and to under the 3 percent European Union limit in 2014.  
 Spain, Portugal Cuts  
 Spain and Portugal need additional budget cuts to meet
deficit targets even as their shortfalls threaten to choke
growth and produce a “snowball” effect on their debt levels,
according to a draft European Commission document obtained by
Bloomberg News. The draft report is dated May 26.  
 Spain’s borrowing costs rose at an auction of 12- and 18-
month bills in Madrid amid concern that the euro-region’s fiscal
crisis has yet to be contained. The weighted average yield on
4.18 billion euros ($5.1 billion) of the 12-month securities was
2.303 percent, compared with 1.59 percent last month, the Bank
of Spain said. The 987.78 million euros of 18-month notes
yielded 2.837 percent, compared with 1.951 percent on May 18.  
 Spain, with the third-largest budget deficit in the euro
region, is facing higher financing costs as investors doubt the
government’s capacity to reduce spending. A selloff of debt from
so-called peripheral countries accelerated after Greece’s credit
rating was cut to non-investment grade by Moody’s yesterday.  
 Germany’s DAX Index of stocks climbed 0.8 percent even as
investor confidence fell to 28.7 this month from 45.8 in May,
lower than economists forecast, the ZEW Center for European
Economic Research said today.  
 Commodities Rally  
 Crude-oil futures rose 2.4 percent to $76.94 a barrel in
New York and jumped to as high as $77.16 earlier amid forecasts
that government data tomorrow will show U.S. supplies fell for a
third week.  
 Natural gas futures rose to the highest price in almost
four months as hotter weather boosted electricity demand for air
conditioning and as a gain above $5 yesterday signaled a rally.
Natural gas for July delivery rose 3.7 percent to $5.189 per
million British thermal units, the highest intraday price since
February.  
 The Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of commodities climbed 1.4
percent and reached the highest level since May 13. The measure
has rallied seven straight days, the longest winning streak
since March 2007.  
 “It’s important that commodity prices firm up here,” said
Bruce Bittles, chief investment strategist at Milwaukee-based
Robert W. Baird & Co., which oversees more than $75 billion in
client assets. “The firming trend would be helpful in calming
fears about a double dip. If they continue to drop that would
suggest that the global economy is really losing steam.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
 Esme E. Deprez  in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Factories in the New York Fed district expanded for an 11th month. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 15 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Deborah Kostroun reports on the performance of the U.S. equity market today.
     U.S. stocks rallied, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index erasing its loss for the year, after reports showed New York-area manufacturing expanded for an 11th month and prices of imported goods declined. Bloomberg's Pimm Fox also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 15 (Bloomberg) -- Douglas Sandler, chief equity officer at Riverfront Investment Group LLC, and Frank Lesh, a trader at FuturePath Trading LLC, talk about the outlook for the U.S. stock market.
     They talk with Matt Miller, Carol Massar and Adam Johnson on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 15 (Bloomberg) -- Gary Jenkins, head of credit research at Evolution Securities Ltd., talks about the prospects for long-term bank funding in Europe as governments issue more debt.
     Jenkins speaks with Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg Television's 
"Countdown." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
