-- U.S. Swap Spreads to Narrow on Increase in Debt Issuance, Barclays Says
-- Liz Capo McCormick
-- 2010-06-15T18:37:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/u-s-swap-spreads-to-narrow-on-increase-in-debt-issuance-barclays-says.html

          
          
             Interest-rate swap spreads may
extend their retreat from the highest levels in over a year as
volatility in bank credit spreads declines and companies boost
debt issuance, according to Barclays Plc.  
 The difference between the rate to exchange floating- for
fixed-interest payments and Treasury yields for two years, known
as the  swap  spread, narrowed 2.43 basis points to 36.38 basis
points. The spread touched 64.21 last month, the widest in
almost 14 months. The five-year spread was at 28.62 basis
points, compared with 30 basis points yesterday. Swap spreads
are based in part on expectations for the London interbank
offered rate, or Libor, and are used as a gauge of investor
perceptions of credit risk.  
 “A combination of seasonal effects and declining credit
spread volatility, together with redemptions of bank TLGP debt
next month, argues for higher financial issuance,”  Amrut Nashikkar , an interest-rate strategist at Barclays Plc in New
York, wrote in a note published on June 10. “And, therefore,
tighter intermediate and long-end spreads over the coming
weeks.”  
 The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.’s temporary loan
guarantee program, or TLGP, provided financial companies, such
as banks, with access to credit markets after the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008. Debt issued
under the program is backed with FDIC guarantees.  
 European Crisis  
 Debt issuance by financial firms is typically swapped from
fixed-rate back into floating-rate payments, triggering
receiving in swaps, which causes swap spreads to tighten.  
 Swap rates are usually higher than Treasury yields in part
because the floating payments are based on interest rates, such
as Libor. Swap rates serve as benchmarks for investors in many
types of debt, including mortgage-backed and auto-loan
securities.  
 “The recent increase in credit spread volatility because
of the European crisis may have contributed” to lower than
seasonally typical debt issuance by financial firms in May and
so far in June, Nashikkar wrote.  
 “If the uncertainty in bank credit spreads declines,
financial issuance could pick up substantially,” he wrote.  
 Three-month dollar Libor rose to an eleven-month high of
0.539 percent from 0.537 percent, according to data from the
British Bankers’ Association, after Moody’s Investors Service
yesterday lowered Greece’s debt rating to junk.  
 The Libor-OIS spread, a gauge of demand for cash and banks’
willingness to lend, was little changed at 32.2 basis points.
The spread has risen from about 6 basis points in mid-March amid
concerns Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis was spreading.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Liz Capo McCormick  in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        