-- UAW Top Lobbyist Alan Reuther Is Retiring From U.S. Auto Workers' Union
-- Steven Fromm
-- 2010-06-15T21:24:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/uaw-top-lobbyist-alan-reuther-is-retiring-from-u-s-auto-workers-union.html

          
          
             United Auto Workers Legislative
Director  Alan Reuther , nephew of the late union leader  Walter Reuther , said he’s retiring after 33 years.  
 Reuther, 61, played a key role in the U.S. bailout of
General Motors Co. and Chrysler Group LLC, said Christine
Moroski, a spokeswoman for the UAW. Reuther also lobbied for
national health-care reform, a cause championed by his uncle in
the 1950s and 1960s. In March, Reuther attended President Barack
Obama’s signing ceremony for the health-care reform bill at the
White House.  
 “I’m most pleased that this year we were finally able to
get enactment of health-care reform, something my uncle called
for many, many years ago,” Reuther said in an interview. “For
me personally, it was very satisfying to realize that dream.”  
 Reuther’s father, Roy, and his other uncle, Victor, headed
the sit-down strikes in Flint, Michigan, in 1936 and 1937 that
led to GM recognizing the UAW. Walter Reuther, who helped
organize workers at  Ford Motor Co. , was first elected president
of the union in 1946 and served until his death in a plane crash
in 1970. Except for three years in the 1970s, a Reuther has been
involved with the UAW since its earliest days in the 1930s.  
 “It has been a wonderful run,” Reuther said of his career
with the union, which began in the legal department in 1977 and
led to his move to the union’s Washington office in 1982.
Reuther said he is being succeeded by his deputy of 11 years,
Barbara Somson.  
 Reuther, who plans to work as a labor consultant, credited
Obama with saving the U.S. auto industry.  
 “If GM and Chrysler went down, Ford would have gone down,
too, along with the major suppliers,” Reuther said. “It would
have been a disaster not only for the entire industry, but for
the entire country.”  
 Reuther’s retirement was reported earlier by the  Detroit
News.   
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keith Naughton  in Detroit at 
 Knaughton3@bloomberg.net ;
 Steven Fromm  at   sfromm@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        