-- Ukraine Plans to Complete Eurobond Sale by Mid-July, Premier Azarov Says
-- Daryna Krasnolutska
-- 2010-06-16T15:23:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/ukraine-plans-to-complete-eurobond-sale-by-mid-july-premier-azarov-says.html

          
          
             Ukraine’s government plans to
complete its first Eurobond sale since 2007 by the middle of
next month as the country struggles to renew its International
Monetary Fund bailout program, Prime Minister  Mykola Azarov 
said.  
 “We are currently placing Eurobonds and this is a lengthy
procedure,” Azarov said in an interview late yesterday in
Luxembourg. “We are negotiating and communicating this with
several European and American banks, including  Morgan Stanley 
and Russian bank VTB.”  
 The government selected  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,  Morgan
Stanley  and VTB Capital to lead the former Soviet republic’s
planned Eurobond sale, the Finance Ministry said on May 17. The
country wants to sell $1.3 billion in Eurobonds this year as
part of a $4.3 billion package of borrowing that includes
international donors to cover the budget deficit.  
 “The placement is happening within the scope of the
mandate we’ve been given by the parliament,” Azarov said. “As
regards the amount, it’s inexpedient now to talk about this and
we need to fully negotiate all the details with our
counterparts.”  
 Ukraine has also negotiated a $2 billion loan from VTB
Group, Russian second-largest bank, Azarov said. The money
“will be then reimbursed after the full and complete placement
of the Eurobonds,” he said without giving any details.  
 Ukraine’s state budget received a 15.8 billion hryvnia ($2
billion) loan from abroad as of June 14, the state treasury said
in a  statement  on its Web site without providing any details.  
 IMF Loan  
 The government is trying to negotiate a second loan with
the  International Monetary Fund  that may be between $12 billion
and $20 billion. The IMF has yet to decide on the size of the
loan, which would replace an existing standby agreement of $16.4
billion that has been frozen since November as the country
failed to cut budget spending.  
 An IMF team is expected in Kiev on June 21 “and I plan
that we can wind up negotiations by the end of June and arrive
at a new program,” Azarov said. The first disbursement “will
depend on the IMF board of directors. We would definitely
welcome the arrival of the new tranche in July and August.”  
 The country initially sought to get the installment in June
though talks are dragging on because the country still needs to
persuade the Washington-based lender about its budgetary
sources, Deputy Prime Minister  Serhiy Tigipko  said last month.
The deficit is planned at 5.3 percent of gross domestic product.  
 Ukraine’s credit ratings were raised at Standard & Poor’s
on May 17 to ‘B/B’, from ‘B-/C’. The yield on Ukraine’s 6.75
percent bond due in 2017 fell to 7.99 percent from 11.3 percent
in January, according to Bloomberg data. Credit-default swaps on
five-year debt have halved this year.  
 Ukraine’s  economy , which slumped 15.1 percent in 2009, grew
5 percent in the first five months of this year, Azarov said.
Output expanded an average 7.5 percent between 2000 and 2007.  
 “In two years’ time, we plan to reach the pre-crisis
development in our economic potential,” said Azarov.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ewa Krukowska  in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;
 Daryna Krasnolutska  in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        