-- Ukraine Examines Gas Project With Gazprom, Including an Exchange of Assets
-- Daryna Krasnolutska
-- 2010-06-15T21:47:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/ukraine-is-mulling-joint-gas-project-with-gazprom-and-vows-secure-supplies.html

          
          
             Ukraine is “potentially
interested” in a joint project of state-run energy company NAK
Naftogaz Ukrainy and  OAO Gazprom  that might include an exchange
of assets, Prime Minister  Mykola Azarov  said.  
 Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  offered to merge the
country’s gas monopoly Gazprom with Naftogaz at a meeting with
Azarov on April 30. Naftogaz moves about 80 percent of Russia’s
Europe-bound gas exports via its Soviet-era  transportation
network  and Russia has sought control over it.  
 “Ukraine is interested in getting access to gas and oil
reserves of Russia because we don’t have such deposits and
resources,” Azarov said in an interview late yesterday in
Luxembourg. “The Russian counterparts are interested in
participating and running our gas transportation system and its
modernization.”  
 The idea “is being developed and pondered by the networks
of Gazprom, Naftogaz and corresponding ministries,” Azarov
said, adding that a decision will be made “when we reach a
mutually beneficial compromise.”  
 Naftogaz, which currently pumps about 100 billion cubic
meters of gas a year, is seeking to upgrade its pipelines. The
system capacity totals 142 billion cubic meters of gas a year
and the company wants Russia and the European Union to cooperate
on upgrading the pipelines, which may cost as much as $4
billion, its chief executive officer said last month.  
 Russian Relations  
 Ukraine has focused on relations with Russia since
President  Viktor Yanukovych  took office in February and formed a
cabinet loyal to him in March. Two months ago in Kiev, Putin
suggested forming a nuclear energy holding company between the
two former Soviet Union republics after Russia agreed to cut gas
prices for Ukraine by 30 percent through 2019.  
 The warming of ties came after Russia cut gas supplies to
Ukraine in 2006 and 2009, when the country was governed by
President  Viktor Yushchenko , who took office on promises to join
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, or NATO. A dispute with
Russia in January last year left more than 20 countries in
Europe without gas for almost two weeks in freezing
temperatures.  
 “There’s no reason for the European consumers to fear any
gas disruptions or situations similar to January 2009,” Azarov
said. “All we need to ensure is that Naftogaz is having an
efficient management and with the stable leadership in the
country, with the president and prime minister being one team,
we shall definitely prevent any potential hiccup or disruption
in gas supplies to Europe.”  
 He also said Ukraine wants to have close relations with
both the 27-nation European Union, which it borders to the west,
and its eastern neighbors.  
 “We believe that building tighter links with eastern
partners, including Russia, as well as other countries in the
east and tighter relationships with the EU are two vector
processes that we’re to pursue, with the final objective of
benefiting the Ukrainian economy.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ewa Krukowska  in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;
 Daryna Krasnolutska  in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Ukraine interested in joint project of Nak Naftogaz Ukrainy and Russia's OAO Gazprom. Photographer: John Guillemin/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
