-- Lula Approves Brazil Pension Increase Sought by Lawmakers Before Election
-- Andre Soliani
-- 2010-06-15T17:38:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/lula-approves-brazil-pension-increase-sought-by-lawmakers-before-elections.html

          
          
             Brazilian President  Luiz Inacio Lula 
da Silva, four months ahead of the presidential election,
approved a higher-than-planned increase in payments for
pensioners that will be offset by cuts to other spending.  
 Lula signed a measure calling for a 7.7 percent increase to
pensioners who get more than 510 reais ($285.90) a month,
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  told reporters today in Brasilia.
The raise, higher than the 6.14 percent increase originally
granted by Lula in January, was approved by Congress on May 19.
It’s retroactive to the beginning of the year.  
 Lula’s decision benefits 8.4 million pensioners, according
to Senator  Romero Juca , leader of the government coalition. To
compensate for the unbudgeted expense, the government will cut
spending in other areas by an additional 1.6 billion reais,
Mantega told reporters in Brasilia.  
 “There was already a great expectation amid pensioners, so
he decided to grant the raise as long as it didn’t threaten
public accounts,” Mantega told reporters in Brasilia. “The
president authorized a cut to current spending to ensure fiscal
balance, the soundness of the public accounts and that the
fiscal target is met.”  
 Lula vetoed a bill that scrapped a formula to calculate the
value of pensions, Mantega told journalists today in Brasilia.
The formula, known in Portuguese as Fator Previdenciario,
determines pension payments according to the age of the retiree.  
 Election Year  
 Lula could have been overturned by Congress if he attempted
to deny the 7.7 percent increase to pensioners,  Claudio Couto , a
political science professor at Getulio Vargas Foundation in Sao
Paulo, said in a phone interview.  
 Lula, barred by the constitution from a third consecutive
term, chose his former Cabinet Chief  Dilma Rousseff , 62, to run
for president in the October election.  
 Rousseff and her main rival for the presidency, Sao Paulo’s
former governor Jose Serra, are currently tied in a pre-election
polls by Ibope published on June 5.  
 Each is supported by 37 percent of those surveyed, the poll
showed. Eight percent of the 2,002 voters polled were undecided.
The poll has a margin of error of 2 percentage points.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Arnaldo Galvao  in Brasilia at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net 
 Andre Soliani  in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        