-- UN to Deliver Aid Flotilla's Cargo to Gaza Strip Under Accord With Israel
-- Bill Varner
-- 2010-06-15T17:25:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/un-to-deliver-aid-flotilla-s-cargo-to-gaza-strip-under-accord-with-israel.html

          
          
             The  United Nations  will transfer
humanitarian aid supplies to the Gaza Strip from a flotilla of
foreign ships that Israel intercepted in international waters on
May 31, the world body’s top envoy to the Middle East said.  
 “The government of Israel has agreed to release the entire
cargo to the United Nations in Gaza on the understanding that it
is for the United Nations to determine its appropriate
humanitarian use in Gaza,”  Robert Serry  told the UN  Security
Council  today.  
 Serry said in reference to Hamas, which controls Gaza, that
the UN has “reason to believe that the de facto authorities in
Gaza will respect the independence” of the agency to aid
Palestinians there and in the West Bank. He also said the
Turkish owners of the cargo have agreed to the UN’s role.  
 The UN will begin the transfer of the supplies “as soon as
possible,” Serry said, adding that the amount of aid was
“modest in scale compared with the needs in Gaza.”  
 The cargo includes medicine, food and clothing, the Israeli
Defense Ministry said today in an e-mailed statement announcing
Israel’s agreement to the UN role.  
 Israel has faced international criticism over the raid by
naval commandos on a flotilla of aid ships as well as calls for
it to lift restrictions on the flow of goods into the Gaza
Strip. The U.S. has declined to join in the criticism of Israel.
Criticism within Israel on the flotilla operation has focused
largely on the execution of the raid and not the blockade.  
 Israeli Probe  
 The incident, which resulted in the deaths of nine pro-
Palestinian activists, has led to demands for Israel or others
to investigate the raid on the ships that headed to Gaza in an
effort to undermine Israel’s blockade of the area. Israel’s
Cabinet yesterday approved a public probe into the raid.  
 Serry said UN Secretary-General  Ban Ki-moon  is continuing
talks on establishing a UN-backed investigation of the incident.
He said Israeli and UN probes “combined would fully meet the
international community’s expectation for a credible and
impartial investigation.” The two approaches are
“complementary,” Serry said.  
 Israel said it issued numerous warnings to the flotilla
beforehand to change course for the port of Ashdod and unload
there. The violence took place on one of six ships in the
flotilla.  
 Iran Plans Shipment  
 Iran will send a ship carrying aid to the Gaza Strip to try
to breach Israel’s blockade, while four Iranian lawmakers plan
to visit the Palestinian coastal enclave if Egypt gives them
visas, the Persian Gulf country’s Red Crescent Society said
yesterday, according to a spokesman who commented by telephone
and declined to be identified in line with agency policy.  
 The Iranian ship loaded with medicine and hygiene goods
will leave this week, and a second vessel may be sent at a later
date in an attempt to bring volunteers to Gaza, the Red Crescent
Society said.  
 Israel launched an operation in the Gaza Strip in December
2008 which it said was meant to stop the firing of rockets into
its territory. More than 1,000 Palestinians and 13 Israelis were
killed in the conflict. Since the end of the three-week
operation, some 330 rockets have been fired from Gaza into
Israel, killing one foreign worker last March, the Israeli army
said.  
 Israel has been blockading Gaza since Hamas seized full
control there in 2007, after winning Palestinian parliamentary
elections the previous year. The group is considered a terrorist
organization by the U.S., the European Union and Israel.  
 A survey of Israeli Jews published in the Maariv daily on
June 2 showed 94.8 percent agreeing that it was necessary to
stop the boats, with 62.7 percent saying it should have been
handled in a different manner. Only 8.1 percent thought Prime
Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  should resign. The newspaper didn’t
say how many people were surveyed or give a margin of error.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bill Varner  at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        