-- Unemployment Hurts More Than Inflation: David G. Blanchflower
-- David G. Blanchflower
-- 2010-06-15T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/unemployment-hurts-more-than-inflation-commentary-by-david-blanchflower.html

          
          
             Oh, for a little inflation!  
 I don’t mean barrow loads full as in Germany in the 1930s
or recently in Zimbabwe, but 4 or 5 percent a year for a few
years would work just fine and would really help us to get out
of this mess. It is doubts over the variation in price changes
that create difficulties rather than the level, at least up to a
point.  
 Inflation does redistribute wealth from savers to
borrowers, but right now that would be a pretty good thing. Many
borrowers are in big trouble and need help. Savers can always
plump for inflation-linked securities and cost-of-living
adjustment clauses can be inserted into wage contracts.
Inflating our debt away looks pretty attractive given the lack
of good alternatives.  
 Allowing inflation to rise a little was also advocated
recently by  Olivier Blanchard , chief economist at the
International Monetary Fund. His main argument was that it helps
to deal with the  zero-bound  problem, where interest rates really
ought to be negative but it isn’t feasible since zero is as low
as they can go. You get around this by letting inflation go up a
bit and eventually interest rates will rise. You then have some
room to maneuver rates down if and when economic activity falls.  
 All the other options look much worse to someone like me
who cares about  unemployment .  
 Trade Offs  
 The unemployed are especially unhappy, but unemployment
also makes the employed unhappy. There is a growing literature
based on happiness data which suggests that in boom times
unemployment hurts twice as much as inflation -- a so-called
misery index of 2-to-1. In a bust it may well be even higher
than that. If the choice is between more inflation and less
unemployment or less inflation and more unemployment, I choose
the former.  
 Inflation would reduce the real value of public and private
debt. And importantly it would help to push many of those
homeowners who are in negative equity back into positive
territory. And what exactly is Plan B to deal with this problem
of negative equity?  
 There is little or no recent evidence from any developed
country that inflation at today’s levels ever turns into
anything catastrophic. Hyperinflation isn’t on the cards. If
there is a sign that it is appearing then we know what to do;
reverse quantitative easing and raise interest rates for a while
and tighten our belts. Fears that moderate inflation quickly
turns to hyperinflation are unfounded based on the data.  
 Not Easy  
 Creating a bit of inflation turns out to be pretty
difficult right now even with all the monetary and fiscal
stimuli governments around the world have been throwing at their
economies. Last month in the U.S. the consumer price index on a
seasonally adjusted basis fell by 0.1 percent. The producer
price index also fell by 0.1 percent on the month.  
 The big worry that really has to be avoided, though, is
deflation, as consumer spending is falling, banks aren’t lending
and wage and income growth is benign. Price changes are already
in deflationary territory in Ireland (-2.5 percent), Latvia (-
2.8 percent) and Japan (-1.2 percent). Inflation is less than 1
percent in Portugal, the Netherlands, Slovakia and Lithuania.  
 The inability to create inflation after all of this
stimulus just illustrates the immensity of the shock we have
experienced.  
 The outlier is the U.K., where consumer price  inflation  hit
3.7 percent in April, forcing the monetary policy committee to
write to the chancellor to explain why. The MPC traced the rise
in inflation to a) the increase in the value-added tax to 17.5
percent at the start of the year from 15 percent, b) a rise in
energy prices and, c) the fall of the  pound .  
 Deflation Threat  
 The MPC’s central projection in its most recent forecast
though is that inflation will decline and there still remains a
substantial probability of deflation.  
 The bottom line if you want some inflation is that you need
to keep interest rates low, probably accompanied by significant
amounts of quantitative easing for a long time. The Federal
Reserve has made it clear that this is its position and it’s in
a wait-and-watch mode. The Fed has said that rates are likely to
stay near zero for an “extended period.”  
 In an op-ed earlier this month  Charlie Bean , deputy
governor for monetary policy at the Bank of England, argued that
the “U.K. that must not fall for the false promise of higher
inflation.” He is dead wrong -- fears of inflation are from a
bygone era. Targeting inflation didn’t prevent countries,
including the U.K., from getting into this mess and it may well
have exacerbated it by taking policy makers’ eyes away from the
real problem of over-leverage.  
 Inflation is the only show in town right now. Monetary
stimulus needs to continue and if that means more inflation that
would be fine, certainly for now. Interest rates of 1 percent or
lower for the next five years seem about right. And on top of
that central bankers may well need to do lots more quantitative
easing, especially if governments embark on policies of cutting
spending based on what economist  Paul Krugman  has called “utter
folly posing as wisdom.” Unemployment hurts.  
 In today’s world, massive unemployment hurts a lot more
than a little bit of inflation.  
 ( David G. Blanchflower , a former member of the Bank of
England’s Monetary Policy Committee, is professor of economics
at Dartmouth College and the University of Stirling. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
David Blanchflower at  david.g.blanchflower@dartmouth.edu   
          
          


  


        