-- Hungary Debt Sale Demand Rises at Auction as Investor Confidence Returns
-- Edith Balazs
-- 2010-06-15T10:55:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/hungary-debt-sale-demand-rises-at-auction-as-investor-confidence-returns.html

          
          
             Demand at Hungary’s debt auction
today was almost double the planned amount, signalling a return
of investor confidence after the government’s failure to raise
the full amount offered at an auction last week.  
 The state debt management agency today sold 45 billion
forint ($196 million) of three-month Treasury bills at an
average yield of 5.28 percent, up from 5.26 percent at the
previous auction on June 8, according to auction results on the
debt management agency’s Bloomberg page.  
 The agency last week sold 35 billion forint of 12-month
Treasury bills, cutting the amount from 50 billion. The average
yield rose to 5.35 percent from 5.17 percent at that auction.
The auction attracted demand worth 57.3 billion forint compared
with today’s subscription for 84 billion forint.  
 “Fears of short-term funding in Hungary are still capped
by the undrawn tranches of the international Monetary Fund
program and support made available by the European Commission,”
 Luis Costa , a strategist at Citigroup Inc. in London, wrote in a
note prior to today’s auction. “Despite the latent currency
risk component, the interest rates play in Hungary remains one
of the most interesting in the region.”  
 Hungary, which received 20 billion euros in bailout loans
from the IMF and the EU in 2008, roiled world markets this month
after local politicians compared the country to Greece and
claimed the previous administration had lied about finances. The
comments fed concerns Europe’s sovereign debt crisis was
spreading, pushing the euro to its lowest level in four years.  
 Prime Minister Viktor Orban’s economic action plan,
containing expenditure cuts and a tax on banks, stemmed investor
panic last week. The forint has gained 3.2 percent since June 4
when it hit its weakest level this year and the currency was
trading at 279.47 per euro at 11:55 a.m. in Budapest.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edith Balazs  in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        