-- Uralkali-Silvinit Deal May Form Second-Biggest Potash Maker, Analysts Say
-- Maria Kolesnikova
-- 2010-06-15T12:03:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/uralkali-silvinit-deal-may-form-second-biggest-potash-maker-analysts-say.html

          
          
             Russian billionaire  Suleiman Kerimov , who this week bought stakes in  OAO Uralkali  and  OAO
Silvinit , may merge the two to create the world’s second-largest
potash producer, analysts at Troika Dialog and Alfa Bank said.  
 Fellow billionaire  Dmitry Rybolovlev  sold 53.2 percent of
Uralkali to a group of investors led by Kerimov, the company
said yesterday. Kerimov, a senator and former State Duma deputy,
also acquired a 20 percent stake in Silvinit, Russia’s largest
potash producer, from Rybolovlev, Vedomosti reported today.  
 “Kerimov could have enough political muscle to
facilitate” a merger,  Mikhail Stiskin , a Moscow-based analyst
at Troika Dialog, wrote today in a report. The billionaire may
then seek a share sale or merger with a fertilizer or metals
company such as  OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel , he said.  
 About $11 billion of fertilizer and agricultural-chemicals
mergers and acquisitions have been announced or completed since
the end of 2008, Bloomberg data show.  BHP Billiton Ltd.  and  Vale
SA , the two largest mine operators, are among companies buying
fertilizer assets as demand for food, fuel and fiber rises.
Uralkali and Silvinit would have 11.5 million metric tons of
capacity, challenging  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.   
 Kerimov bought 25 percent of Uralkali,  OAO Polymetal  co-
owner  Alexander Nesis  acquired 15 percent and Eurocement Group
owner Filaret Galchev purchased 13.2 percent, with the total
acquisition worth about $5.3 billion.  
 Purely Financial  
 The transactions may revive government plans to create a
state-run fertilizer holding company, according to Alfa Bank.  
 The three purchasers are “purely financial investors” and
will probably resell a controlling stake in Uralkali to a
“state-owned company that could consolidate Uralkali and
Silvinit under one umbrella to create a global leader in the
potash market,” Alfa Bank’s  Georgy Ivanin  wrote.  
 Larissa Belyaeva , a spokeswoman for Uralkali, and Silvinit
spokesman  Anton Subbotin  declined to comment on any merger plan.
 Maria Uvarova , a spokeswoman for Norilsk, declined to comment.  
 “Norilsk is the only company that has enough cash for such
a deal, together with a good strategic fit, while we believe
that the company’s key shareholders would support the deal,”
UniCredit SpA analyst  Marat Gabitov  wrote in a note today.  
 Kerimov, 44, is a  member of the Federation Council , the
upper chamber of Russia’s parliament. He owns stakes in  OAO
Polyus Gold , the nation’s biggest producer of the metal, and
property developer PIK Group, and is the fourth-richest Russian
with a $14.5 billion fortune, according to Finans magazine.  
 “Kerimov is a nearly ideal candidate to acquire Uralkali
in terms of both political leverage and his future position in
the company, which will be relegated to the role of financial
investor,” Stiskin wrote.  
 The businessman’s government connections may help the
company resolve a dispute over reserves it lost in a 2006 mine
flood, IFC Metropol analyst  Andrey Lobazov  wrote today in a
report. The government in 2008 reopened a probe into the
accident, citing geological and technological causes.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Kolesnikova  in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        