-- Murdoch's BSkyB Offer Fits Strategy to Charge for News, Movies
-- Kristen Schweizer
-- 2010-06-15T11:56:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/murdoch-s-offer-to-control-bskyb-fits-strategy-to-charge-for-news-movies.html

          
          
             Rupert Murdoch -controlled  News
Corp.’s  7.8 billion-pound ($11.5 billion) offer to take over
 British Sky Broadcasting Plc  fits his business model:
boosting operations where clients pay for content.  
 Subscription-based businesses such as U.K. pay-TV provider
BSkyB, of which News Corp. already owns a 39 percent stake, make
it easier to generate secure and rising sales compared with
content reliant on a volatile advertising market, analysts said.  
 “There’s definitely a theme here to get people to pay for
content,” said  Alex DeGroote,  a media analyst at Panmure Gordon
& Co. in London. “News Corp. has a conviction that getting
people to pay will work and Murdoch’s not backing down from
that.”  
 The bid for the remainder of BSkyB reflects Murdoch’s
ambitions to generate more money from subscriptions at a time
when many newspapers, magazines and TV shows are free online and
films and music can easily be downloaded illegally. News Corp.,
which already charges for online access to  The Wall Street
Journal , will also begin charging for the websites of  The Times
of London  and The Sunday Times this month.  
 BSkyB today spurned the News Corp. offer, asking for the
bid to be raised by at least 14 percent. The company’s
independent directors said today they may accept an offer of
more than 800 pence a share, higher than the 700 pence a share
News Corp. offered for the 61 percent stake it doesn’t already
own in BSkyB.  
 Value of Customers  
 “The value of customers to BSkyB is how much they pay
for services,” said  Paul Richards , an analyst with Numis
Securities Ltd. in London. “All evidence shows the more
services they have, the less likely they are to leave.”  
 Formed in 1990 with the merger of Murdoch’s Sky Television
and British Satellite Broadcasting, BSkyB has about 9.77 million
subscribers. Buying exclusive live broadcasting rights in 1992
to popular events such as the Premier League, England’s top
soccer league, helped it win clients. It added offerings such as
the History Channel and Disney Channel in 1995.  
 Murdoch said last year he would start online subscriptions
for all company news sites and even considered blocking  Google
Inc. ’s Internet search engine from displaying News Corp. news
articles. Online news aggregators should pay to distribute his
company’s stories, Murdoch said.  
 The Times and The Sunday Times are the first of four U.K.
news titles owned by News Corp.’s international unit that will
move to an online pay model.  
 Newspaper Access  
 The Financial Times, which also charges readers to access
the newspaper online, has no plans to pull its content from
Google, even though users are seven times less likely to
subscribe to the FT.com when they arrive via Google News pages,
 Rob Grimshaw , FT.com managing director, said in April.  
 Continuing its quest to charge for content, News Corp. said
yesterday it bought e-reading platform Skiff LLC and invested an
undisclosed amount into Journalism Online LLC, a venture that
helps publishers collect revenue from Internet readers.  
 Journalism Online, co-founded by  Steven Brill  and  Gordon Crovitz , runs Press+, a service that provides online readers a
universal account to access news. It also helps publishers
adjust pricing and offerings for paid access to their content,
including managing the so-called meter model, which grants free
access until a reader surpasses a certain threshold.  
 News Corp., which also owns the Twentieth Century Fox film
studio, said on May 4 that the company is evaluating how to use
its $8.18 billion in cash. News Corp. recorded $176 million in
earnings from its BSkyB stake in the quarter ended March 31,
compared with a $7 million loss a year earlier. The satellite
service’s operating profit increased with the addition of high-
definition TV subscribers.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kristen Schweizer  in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Chairman and CEO of News Corp. Rupert Murdoch. Photographer: Brendan Hoffman/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
