-- BSkyB Rejects News Corp. Offer of $11.5 Billion
-- Sarah Rabil
-- 2010-06-15T20:13:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/murdoch-s-11-5-billion-offer-for-rest-of-bskyb-is-rejected-by-broadcaster.html

          
          
             British Sky Broadcasting Plc , the
U.K.’s largest pay-TV provider, spurned a 7.8 billion-pound
($11.6 billion) offer from  Rupert Murdoch’s   News Corp. , asking
for the bid to be raised by at least 14 percent.  
 BSkyB  shares  rose 17 percent, the biggest jump in more than
10 years. The U.K. company’s independent directors said today
they may accept an offer of more than 800 pence a share, higher
than the 700 pence a share News Corp. offered for the 61 percent
stake it doesn’t already own in BSkyB.  
 “I wouldn’t think News Corp. would enter into this if they
didn’t think they were going to get BSkyB,” said  Steve Malcolm ,
an analyst at Evolution Securities in London. “In an uncertain
world they are looking at BSkyB’s pretty resilient pay-TV
business and thinking this is not a bad place to be.”  
 The offer for BSkyB would be 79-year-old Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Murdoch’s biggest-ever acquisition, according
to Bloomberg data. News Corp., the owner of the Wall Street
Journal and the Fox television channel, said on May 4 that the
company was evaluating how to use its $8.18 billion in cash.  
 Taking over the U.K. pay-TV unit would be in line with
 Murdoch ’s drive to boost News Corp.’s presence in subscription-
driven businesses. BSkyB Non-Executive Chairman  James Murdoch ,
37, who is Rupert Murdoch’s son, won’t participate in the talks.  
 Formed in 1990 with the merger of Murdoch’s Sky Television
and British Satellite Broadcasting, BSkyB has about 9.77 million
subscribers. Buying exclusive live broadcasting rights in 1992
to popular events such as the Premier League, England’s top
soccer league, helped it win clients. It added offerings such as
the History Channel and Disney Channel in 1995.  
 Right Time  
 BSkyB rose 99.5 pence to 700 pence today in London. The
shares have gained 25 percent this year.  
 “It is the unanimous view of the independent directors
that there is a significant gap between the proposal from News
Corp. and the value of the company,”  Nicholas Ferguson , BSkyB’s
senior independent non-executive director, said today.  
 Four out of 14 BSkyB board members represent News Corp.  
 The New York-based company said it will work with BSkyB to
seek approval from “relevant” regulators for the bid. The
process may take six months or more, News Corp. Chief Operating
Officer  Chase Carey  said on a conference call. The proposed
purchase won’t require a competition review into the company’s
newspapers and other media holdings in the U.K., he said.  
 “We have a deal that really does represent for us a full
and fair price,” Carey said. “We’re going to be disciplined
about approaching this process. If we can’t reach a satisfactory
agreement for us, we have other options.”  
 Stock Discount  
 News Corp.’s 700 pence offer represents a multiple of about
11.8 times BSkyB’s  earnings  before interest, tax, depreciation
and amortization of 1.14 billion pounds for the pro-forma 12
months ended March, the company said. European broadcasters have
an average price-to-earnings ratio of 15.20, according to
Bloomberg data.  
 News Corp. said it plans to raise about $4 billion in debt
to help fund the purchase, and also use some of its available
cash. Share buybacks are unlikely until the deal closes and the
leverage ratio is reduced again, Chief Financial Officer  David DeVoe  said on today’s conference call.  
 News Corp. added $1.25, or 9.5 percent, to $14.37 at 4 p.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market  trading , the biggest gain
in 15 months. The Class A shares have risen 5 percent this year.  
 Taking full control of BSkyB would boost per-share earnings
and free cash flow, News Corp. said on today’s conference call.  
 Breakup Fee  
 News Corp. recorded $176 million in  earnings  from its BSkyB
stake in the quarter ended March 31, compared with a $7 million
loss a year earlier. The satellite service’s operating profit
increased with the addition of high-definition TV subscribers.  
 The company’s shares may benefit from full ownership of
BSkyB by eliminating a discount in the stock that reflects the
partial ownership,  Hale Holden , a Barclays Capital debt analyst,
wrote in a May 25 report. The decline in the value of the
British pound relative to the U.S. dollar may also have
increased the likelihood of such a deal, he said.  
 In December, News Corp. raised its stake in  Sky Deutschland
AG , Germany’s biggest pay-TV service, to more than 45 percent.  
 News Corp., which already charges for online access to The
Wall Street Journal, will do the same for the websites of The
Times of London and The Sunday Times this month.  
 BSkyB said in April high-definition subscriber additions
increased 76 percent in the last quarter after it cut
installation prices.  
 News Corp. will pay a fee of 38.5 million pounds, or 0.5
percent of the offer, if the transaction breaks down. It will
pay BSkyB 20 million pounds if it doesn’t get clearances.  
 Deutsche Bank AG  and JPMorgan Cazenove are acting as
financial advisers for News Corp. BSkyB is being advised by
Morgan Stanley and UBS Investment Bank. Merrill Lynch is also
providing advice to BSkyB.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
 Sarah Rabil  in New York at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A sign sits outside the British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc headquarters in Isleworth, U.K. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     BSkyB shares rose as the company rejected an offer from Murdoch's News Corp. Photographer: Jason Alden/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Murdoch's News corp offer to BSkyB rejected  
                       
                         
                           Brendan Hoffman/Bloomberg 
                         
                         BSkyB independent directors said they may be prepared to accept a higher offer from Murdoch's News Corp. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     BSkyB independent directors said they may be prepared to accept a higher offer from Murdoch's News Corp. Photographer: Brendan Hoffman/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
