-- UN Aid Arrives for Kyrgyz Refugees as Death Toll Mounts
-- Chris Kirkham
-- 2010-06-16T08:02:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/uzbekistan-closes-its-border-to-kyrgyz-refugees-fleeing-ethnic-killings.html

          
          
             United Nations relief supplies for
around 200,000 refugees fleeing ethnic violence in  Kyrgyzstan 
arrived in neighboring Uzbekistan, the UN High Commissioner for
Refugees said today.  
 “The first of six planned Ilyushin-76 cargo planes, each
carrying 40 tons of UNHCR relief supplies for refugees, has
landed at Andijan airport in Uzbekistan after departing with
supplies loaded from the aid agency’s stockpile in Dubai,” the
UNHCR said in an e-mailed statement.  
 The UNHCR said more than 75,000 people have arrived since
June 10, citing the Uzbek government, though some reports say
the total number of displaced since the ousting of former
President  Kurmanbek Bakiyev  in April may be around 275,000. The
death toll from the last six days of rioting in the Osh and
Jalalabad regions of Kyrgyzstan may be much higher than
previously announced, according to news reports.  
 Interim President  Roza Otunbayeva  said she believed 700 may
have died, the Wall Street Journal reported, while Christian
Cardon, a spokesman for the Red Cross, referred to “several
hundreds” of deaths, according to the Associated Press.  Rupert Colville , spokesman for the UN High Commissioner for Human
Rights, said there was evidence the violence was coordinated and
began with five attacks in Osh by men in ski masks, the AP said.  
 ‘Dangerous’  
 “This is an extremely dangerous situation given the ethnic
patchwork in this part of Kyrgyzstan, it’s a highly complex
ethnic mix there with some 80 ethnic groups just in the Osh
region,” Colville said, according to the AP. “It has been
known for many years that this region is a potential ethnic
tinderbox.”  
 The violence erupted on June 10 when supporters of former
President  Kurmanbek Bakiyev  clashed with groups loyal to the
interim government. The Uzbeks welcomed Bakiyev’s overthrow in
April, blaming him for impeding the minority’s business growth
and ignoring its political leaders, while many Kyrgyz in the
south supported Bakiyev, who comes from the region.  
 The clashes were aimed at disrupting a June 27 referendum
on a new constitution and were funded by people close to
Bakiyev, according to the government’s first deputy head,
 Almazbek Atambayev , Interfax reported yesterday.  
 “It was a carefully planned operation conducted by the
enemies of the interim government,” Atambayev said. “Its goal
was to overthrow the new authorities of Kyrgyzstan and to thwart
the referendum. The information available to our special
services confirms that all of these measures were funded by the
Bakiyev family, particularly Bakiyev’s youngest son Maxim.”  
 Influence  
 The United Nations and the European Union urged Kyrgyzstan
not to allow the unrest to derail the referendum and October
parliamentary elections.  
 Otunbayeva yesterday pledged to proceed with plans for the
plebiscite, the Wall St. Journal said.  
 The U.S. and Russia have been jostling for influence in
Kyrgyzstan, where both countries have air bases. Russia agreed
in April to give the provisional government $50 million. Edil
Baisalov, the government’s chief of staff, said at the time that
the U.S. planned to give emergency aid.  
 The U.S. relies on the Manas air base outside the capital
Bishkek to support operations in Afghanistan after Uzbekistan
evicted the American military in 2005.  
 U.S. troops gathered food and fuel and sent it to the
worst-affected area, according to a statement from the U.S. Air
Force received yesterday.  
 Economic Backdrop  
 The International Monetary Fund on May 25 warned
Kyrgyzstan’s projected 4.6 percent economic expansion this year
may be damped by political upheaval. The fund predicted 8
percent growth for Uzbekistan, the world’s third-biggest shipper
of cotton, at the time.  
 Landlocked Kyrgyzstan depends on remittances from migrant
workers in Russia for about 40 percent of national income, and
also relies on rent paid by the U.S. and Russia for their bases.
Kyrgyzstan’s average monthly wage was $132 in January, according
to the country’s National Statistical Committee.  
 About a third of the population lives below the poverty
level, making the country eligible for aid from the
International Development Association, the World Bank’s support
arm for the poorest economies.  
 Maxim Bakiyev was detained in Britain on June 14 by the
U.K. Border Agency after he landed at Farnborough airport in
Hampshire on a rented private plane, Kyrgyzstan’s national
security chief Keneshbek Duishebayev told Channel One
broadcaster, according to Interfax. His father, who has taken
refuge in Belarus, has denied accusations that he is involved in
the unrest.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anastasia Ustinova  in St. Petersburg at 
 austinova@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     An ethnic Uzbek mother holds her son as they wait at the Kyrgyz-Uzbek border outside a village of Suratash some 15 km to the south of Osh on June 14, 2010. Photographer: Oxana Onikpo/AFP/Getty Images)  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Ethnic Uzbek refugees  
                       
                         
                           Viktor Drachev/AFP/Getty Images 
                         
                         Ethnic Uzbek refugees stand at the Kyrgyz-Uzbek border in a village of Suratash some 15km to the south of Osh. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Ethnic Uzbek refugees stand at the Kyrgyz-Uzbek border in a village of Suratash some 15km to the south of Osh. Photographer: Viktor Drachev/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
