-- Visteon, Texas Rangers, Extended Stay: Bankruptcy
-- Bill Rochelle
-- 2010-06-15T13:26:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/visteon-circuit-city-majestic-star-bear-island-taylor-bean-bankruptcy.html

          
          
             Auto-parts maker Visteon Corp. filed
a revised Chapter 11 plan, hoping to mollify existing
shareholders by offering them 1.94 percent of the stock if they
vote in favor of the reorganization. The new plan came in just
before the hearing that began yesterday morning for approval of
a disclosure statement explaining the plan.  
 The disclosure statement likewise was revised to reflect
the new plan. In return for a “yes” vote, existing
shareholders also would receive warrants to buy more stock for
$51.59 a share.  
 The structure of the revised plan is much the same as
before. The centerpiece is a proposal where bondholders would
control the reorganized company by providing $1.25 billion cash.  
 Holders of two-thirds of the senior notes signed an
agreement to support the new plan. If they are unable to supply
the cash, Visteon will proceed with a plan similar to March 15
version where term loan lenders owed $1.63 billion will receive
approximately 85 percent of the stock, with noteholders
splitting the remaining approximately 15 percent.  
 The new cash is to come from a $950 million rights offering
which some of the noteholders are to backstop and from a $300
million direct purchase of new stock.  
 If shareholders accept the newly revised plan, bondholders
emerge with 90.2 percent of the new stock. Previously, they were
to have 95 percent of the stock in return for the cash, with the
other 5 percent being distributed to bondholders. If
shareholders reject the plan, bondholders can purchase 95
percent of the stock, as before.  
 If the equity holders are on board with the plan, the new
version calls for bondholders to receive 4.8 percent of the new
stock. Bondholders receive 5 percent of the stock if existing
shareholders are opposed to the plan.  
 Workers’ pensions plans will be retained, thus obviating a
large unsecured claim for pension-plan termination.  
 Term loan lenders are to be paid in full with cash on hand
and new cash from noteholders. The plan was revised to provide
that if the lenders vote against the plan, their debt may be
reinstated, allowing Visteon to reduce the amount of exit
financing.  
 Assuming debt isn’t reinstated, reorganized Visteon would
have a $300 million undrawn working capital loan when the plan
is confirmed.  
 Only bondholders who are so-called accredited investors may
participate in the rights offering. Those who aren’t receive
cash for a projected recovery of approximately 48 percent for
holders of the 7 percent and 8.25 percent senior notes. Non-
accredited holders of the 12.25 percent senior notes should see
an approximately 70 percent recovery.  
 From the distribution of new stock, the projected recovery
by accredited investors in the 7 percent and 8.25 percent senior
notes is approximately 8 percent. For the accredited holders of
the 12.25 percent senior notes, the projected recovery is about
27 to 30 percent.  
 The revised disclosure statement says that the recovery by
stockholders is worth more than $27 million, at the so-called
plan value of $27.69 a share. The warrants are estimated to have
a value of $7.2 million.  
 Except for Visteon International Holdings Inc., general
unsecured creditors owed as much as $167 million will recover 50
percent.  
 To read about the positions being taken by various parties
before yesterday’s hearing, click here for the May 25 Bloomberg
bankruptcy report.  
 Visteon filed for reorganization in May 2009, listing
assets of $4.6 billion against debt totaling $5.3 billion. Sales
in 2008 were $9.5 billion, including $3.1 billion to  Ford Motor
Co . Visteon was spun off from Ford in 2000. Van Buren Township,
Michigan-based Visteon at the outset owed $2.7 billion for
borrowed money, including $1.5 billion on a secured term loan,
$862 million on unsecured bonds, and $214 million on other debt
obligations.  
 The case is In re Visteon Corp., 09-11786,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , District of  Delaware  (Wilmington).  
 Updates  
 Rangers Lenders Testing Sale Process in Court Today  
 The  Texas Rangers  of professional baseball have a hearing
in bankruptcy court today to decide whether the case will end
July 9 with an approved sale or convert into a reorganization
where there’s an auction for the assets and a disclosure
statement is sent to creditors who vote on a Chapter 11 plan.  
 The team began the reorganization on May 24 with a plan it
says pays everyone in full and is eligible for approval at a
confirmation hearing without permitting any creditors to vote.
The plan would implement a sale of the team to a group including
current President Nolan Ryan in a transaction the Rangers value
at $575 million. The team itself would only pay $75 million to
lenders owed $525 million, leaving the lenders attempting to
collect from team affiliates.  
 The official creditors’ committee told the bankruptcy judge
in a June 11 court filing that the a few changes to the plan
would permit confirmation without allowing creditors to vote.
Otherwise, the committee says that unsecured creditors are
adversely affected and are entitled to vote.  
 The committee says the plan must be changed to give
unsecured creditors interest on their claims plus the right to
sue in any court if they are shortchanged.  
 The main event at today’s hearing is a clash between the
lenders on one side and the club and Major League Baseball on
the other. At today’s hearing, the parties were told by U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Michael Lynn to hash out several issues,
including whether creditors are entitled to vote, whether the
disclosure statement is adequate, and who stands in the shoes of
the team’s owner.  
 The lenders and the league disagree over who controls the
team’s destiny. Since the loan was in default for a year before
bankruptcy, the lenders believe they assumed the powers of the
team’s limited and general partners and have the right to
approve or block the plan.  
 The league answers by pointing to provisions in the loan
documents where the lenders agreed that there could be no change
in control of the club absent permission from the league after a
vote of every team.  
 The lenders also disagree with the notion that the Nolan
Ryan group is making the best offer. They contend a Houston
businessman named Jim Crane had a higher bid until the league
took over the sale process and compelled a sale to the Ryan
group.  
 The lenders hope to present evidence that the team on the
eve of bankruptcy transferred assets into the team where the
lenders’ lien is limited to $75 million. They also say
liabilities were transferred to the team, with the result that a
sale to any other buyer would be “extraordinarily costly.”  
 The lenders point to correspondence where the league tells
the lenders they must consent to a sale if the baseball
commissioner decides it’s in the “best interest of baseball.”  
 The league takes the position that the auction for the team
ended on Dec. 15 when the Ryan group was selected as having the
highest bid. The lenders point to correspondence they say shows
that Crane was offering more. The amount of Crane’s offer wasn’t
disclosed in the court filings.  
 The league said in its June 11 court filing that an
agreement under which the league gave financial support required
picking the buyer by Dec. 15.  
 If the Rangers surmount all opposition at today’s hearing,
Lynn previously scheduled a July 9 confirmation hearing for
approval of the Chapter 11 plan. For details on the proposed
plan and sale, click here for the May 26 Bloomberg bankruptcy
report.  
 The case is In re Texas Rangers Baseball Partners, 10-
43400, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Texas (Fort
Worth).  
 Starwood Still Fighting for Control of Extended Stay  
 Although Starwood Capital Group LLC lost the auction, it
hasn’t given up the fight to take over Extended Stay Inc., the
operator of more than 680 long-term lodging properties in 44
states. This time around, Starwood has support from the Extend
Stay creditors’ committee.  
 Centerbridge Partners LP, Paulson & Co. and  Blackstone
Group LP  won the auction with a $3.93 billion all-cash offer
that would give them all of the equity. The committee says that
Greenwich, Connecticut-based Starwood has a proposal worth
hundreds of millions more that will allow a “meaningful
distribution” to unsecured creditors and holders of $3.3
billion in mezzanine loans. If Extended Stay is sold to the
Centerbridge group, the price is less than the $4.1 billion in
mortgage loans, meaning that mezzanine lenders and unsecured
creditors would receive nothing aside from an interest in a
litigation trust.  
 In papers filed yesterday in bankruptcy court, Starwood
said it’s prepared to file a plan where the existing mortgages
would stay in place and be paid according to their terms.
Starwood would invest “substantial new cash” while unsecured
creditors and mezzanine lenders would receive warrants, an
interest in a litigation trust, and the right to subscribe to
new stock on the same terms as Starwood.  
 Starwood said it will soon file a motion to end Extended
Stay’s exclusive right to propose a Chapter 11 plan. Starwood
wants the bankruptcy court to postpone the June 17 hearing for
approval of the disclosure statement until the exclusivity
motion is decided.  
 The committee likewise doesn’t want the disclosure
statement approved on June 17. The panel notes that the company
consumed two weeks after the auction revising the plan and
disclosure statement and wants the disclosure statement approved
nine days after the revised papers were filed. The committee
says the judge should follow the applicable bankruptcy rule and
allow 28 days before the hearing, so the disclosure statement
shouldn’t be approved until July 6 at the earliest.  
 The committee and Starwood argue that Extended Stay
departed from the auction rules mandated by the court. As they
see the facts, representatives of the mortgage lenders required
all-cash bids while not permitting structured proposals.  
 Extended Stay and the committee also disagree about the
disposition of documents collected by the examiner during his
investigation.  
 The examiner himself suggested three alternatives. The
bankruptcy judge is scheduled to decide the dispute at a June 17
hearing in the course of discharging the examiner.  
 The creditors’ committee supports the idea of turning
documents over to the committee in view of the panel’s pending
motion to investigate and bring lawsuits on behalf of the
company. Extended Stay is opposed to allowing suits by the
committee when the pending reorganization plan will create a
litigation trust funded with $5 million to bring any lawsuits
the examiner found to have sufficient merit.  
 Extended Stay advocates destroying records collected by the
examiner. The company says it provided internal documents to the
examiner under a confidentiality agreement where privileges were
specifically preserved. Extended Stay contends that giving
documents to the committee would violate the confidentiality
agreement.  
 For details of the sale and the plan, click here to read
the June 10 Bloomberg bankruptcy report. Before the auction,
Extended Stay was seeking a confirmation hearing for approval of
the plan on July 20.  
 Extended Stay’s Chapter 11 petition in June 2009 listed
assets of $7.1 billion against debt totaling $7.6 billion,
including $4.1 billion in mortgage loans and $3.3 billion in 10
different mezzanine loans.  
 Based in Spartanburg, South Carolina, Extended Stay says
it’s the largest operator of mid-priced extended stay hotels in
the U.S. The properties are almost all managed by HVM LLC, an
affiliate that didn’t file in Chapter 11.  
 The case is In re Extended Stay Inc., 09-13764, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District  New York    Manhattan ).  
 Mediation May Break Logjam on Circuit City Plan  
 Although  Circuit City Stores Inc . and the official
creditors’ committee jointly filed a liquidating plan in August
for the 721-store electronics retailer, the two sides never came
to agreement on who would control the liquidating trust to be
created under the plan.  
 The committee filed its own version of the plan and
liquidating trust documents early this month. Circuit City
responded by filing a motion asking the judge to force both
sides into mediation over the plan and liquidating trust. The
motion for mediation is scheduled for hearing tomorrow in
bankruptcy court in Richmond, Virginia.  
 The committee says it has no objection to mediation. The
panel contends the company is unjustified in wanting to control
the liquidating trust when the creditors’ representative should
be in charge.  
 The disclosure statement for the joint plan was approved in
September. The plan couldn’t be confirmed in view of outstanding
Canadian tax claims and disagreement over control of the
liquidating trust. No confirmation hearing for either plan is
currently on the court schedule.  
 All but some $5 million to $20 million in secured claims
already were paid in full. Unsecured creditors with claims
ranging from $1.8 billion to $2 billion were estimated to have a
recovery ranging between nothing and 13.5 percent, according to
the explanatory disclosure statement for the joint plan.  
 Circuit City filed under Chapter 11 in November 2008 in its
Richmond, Virginia, hometown, listing assets of $3.4 billion and
debt totaling $2.3 billion as of Aug. 31, 2008. Papers
originally listed $898 million owing to the secured revolving
credit lenders. Unsecured trade suppliers were owed another $650
million at the outset, the company said in a court filing.  
 The case is In re Circuit City Stores Inc., 08-35653, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District Virginia (Richmond).  
 Majestic Star Promises to File Plan by August 20  
 Casino operator  Majestic Star Casino LLC  was forced to
revise the business plan when quick access by customers from  Chicago  to the Indiana properties was cut off because a bridge
closed for structural repairs. The company is promising to file
a reorganization plan by Aug. 20 and wants the bankruptcy judge
in Delaware to extend the exclusive right for proposing a
reorganization until then.  
 The hearing on Majestic Star’s so-called exclusivity motion
is set for June 29. It’s the second request for more time to
file a plan. The company says that the creditors’ committee and
secured lenders don’t object to longer exclusivity.  
 Majestic Star has four casinos, plus hotels with 806 rooms
serving the two riverboat casinos in Gary, Indiana. The other
casinos are in Tunica, Mississippi, and Black Hawk, Colorado.  
 Debt includes $79.3 million owing on the senior secured
credit facility, with Wells Fargo Capital Finance Inc. as agent.
Senior secured noteholders with a second lien are owed $300
million. Majestic Star owes $200 million on unsecured senior
notes and $63.5 million on discount notes. Assets were $406
million and debt was $750 million in the quarterly report for
the period ended June 30.  
 The case is In re Majestic Star Casino LLC, 09-14136, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Spheris Files Plan, Recovery Not Yet Specified  
 Spheris Inc., a transcriber of medical dictation for
doctors and hospitals, filed a liquidating Chapter 11 plan last
week that proposes to pay creditors in the priorities outlined
in bankruptcy law. The disclosure statement currently has blanks
where unsecured creditors and holders of subordinated notes
eventually will be told the percentage recovery to expect.  
 Spheris, now formally named SP Wind Down Inc., sold the
business for $98.83 million cash and a note that it sold for
$13.77 million. On Jan. 31, secured lenders were owed $75.6
million.  
 Unsecured claims consist largely of $125 million owing on
subordinated notes.  
 The hearing for approval of the disclosure statement
explaining the plan is scheduled for July 13.  
 Spheris’s assets were purchased by subsidiaries of  CBaySystems Holdings Ltd ., a competing medical transcription
services provider.  
 Franklin, Tennessee-based Spheris listed assets of $61
million against debt totaling $225 million, including $75.6
million on a senior secured credit and $125 million on
subordinated notes. For nine months ended in September, revenue
was $120 million.  
 The case is In re SP Wind Down Inc., 10-10352, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
   Taylor Bean  Has $5 Million in D&O Insurance Coverage  
 Taylor Bean & Whitaker Mortgage Corp., once the largest
independent mortgage originator in the U.S., lodged claims
against the insurance company that provided $5 million in
directors’ and officers’ liability coverage. The insurer,
National Union Fire Insurance Co. of Pittsburgh, Pa., is asking
the bankruptcy judge to modify the so-called automatic stay so
it can pay defense costs.  
 National Union, a subsidiary of  American International
Group Inc ., says it hasn’t yet decided whether to cover all
claims. The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development
brought departmental proceedings against former officers to bar
them from contracting with the federal government.  Freddie Mac 
took action to prevent them from doing business with the agency.
The former officers also asked for coverage under the policy.  
 Taylor Bean itself received subpoenas from the Securities
and Exchange Commission and a federal grand jury in Georgia.  
 After filing under Chapter 11 last August, Taylor Bean sold
1,046 parcels of repossessed real estate for $81.2 million to
Selene Residential Mortgage Opportunity Fund LP. The bankruptcy
occurred three weeks after federal investigators searched the
offices of the Ocala, Florida-based company. The day following
the search, the Federal Housing Administration, Ginnie Mae and
Freddie Mac prohibited the company from issuing new mortgages
and terminated servicing rights. Taylor Bean managed an $80
billion mortgage servicing portfolio. The petition said assets
and debt both exceed $1 billion.  
 The case is Taylor Bean & Whitaker Mortgage Corp., 09-
07047, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Middle District of  Florida 
(Jacksonville).  
 Filing Soon  
 Medical Staffing to Be Sold to Lenders in Chapter 11  
   Medical Staffing Network Holdings Inc ., a provider of
temporary nursing services, said today that it will begin a
prepackaged Chapter 11 reorganization by June 28 where the
first-lien lenders owed $95.1 million will buy the business in
exchange for debt.  
 Second-lien lenders owed $25.2 million won’t object to the
sale, the company said in a regulatory filing. The agreement on
the reorganization was reached with General Electric Capital
Corp., agent for the first-lien lenders, and with holders of 95
percent of the second-lien debt.  
 The sale will be conducted through a typical bankruptcy
auction with the first bid to come from the senior lenders. They
also will provide $15 million in financing for the Chapter 11
case.  
 Medical Staffing, based in Boca Raton, Florida, violated
loan covenants in December. Access to the revolving credit had
been shut off.  
 Medical Staffing reported a $6.7 million net loss for the
first quarter of 2010 on revenue of $72 million. The balance
sheet was upside down with assets of $87.7 million and total
liabilities of $140.9 million. The operating loss in the first
quarter was $1.3 million.  
 For 2009, Medical Staffing had an operating loss of $34.3
million and a net loss of $51.2 million. Revenue for the year
was $340.9 million.  
 New Filing  
 Fairfield Sentry, Madoff Feeder Fund, Files in New York  
 Fairfield Sentry Ltd., which says it and affiliates were
the largest feeder funds for Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities Inc., filed Chapter 15 petitions yesterday to enlist
help from the bankruptcy judge in New York to collect assets for
the funds’ liquidations in the High Court of Justice in the
British Virgin Islands.  
 The funds’ former investment manager was Fairfield
Greenwich Group. The funds severed their relationship with the
manager, court papers say. The funds were created so non-U.S.
citizens and certain tax exempt entities could invest with
Madoff.  
 Chapter 15 isn’t a full-blown reorganization like Chapter
11 or a liquidation like Chapter 7. Instead, Chapter 15 allows
the judge in the U.S. to assist a bankruptcy principally pending
elsewhere. If the Chapter 15 petition is granted, all manner of
creditor actions in the U.S. will be halted, and the U.S. judge
can lend a hand in collecting assets in the U.S.  
 The liquidators for the Fairfield funds say the trustee for
the Madoff firm has no objection to the Chapter 15 petition.  
 The liquidators say the funds invested more than $7 billion
in the Madoff firm. The Madoff trustee has objected to allowance
of the firms’ claims in the U.S. liquidation. The liquidators in
their U.S. court filing say they are engaged with the Madoff
trustee in “good faith, bilateral discussions toward a
consensual resolution.”  
 If the Chapter 15 petitions are granted, the liquidators
say they will use the U.S. court to help collect assets in the
U.S.  
 In May 2009, the Madoff trustee sued Fairfield Greenwich
for $3.54 billion, aiming to take back $3.2 billion withdrawn
within six years and $1.2 billion taken out in 90 days before
bankruptcy.  
 Bernard Madoff is serving a 150-year prison sentence
following a guilty plea. The Madoff firm began liquidating in
December 2008 with the appointment of a trustee under the
Securities Investor Protection Act.  Bernard Madoff  himself went
into an involuntary Chapter 7 liquidation in April 2009. His
bankruptcy case was consolidated with the firm’s liquidation.  
 The Fairfield case is In re Fairfield Sentry Ltd., 10-
13164, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  
 The Madoff liquidation case is Securities Investor
Protection Corp. v. Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities
Inc., 08-01789, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New
York (Manhattan). The criminal case is U.S. v. Madoff, 09-cr-
00213, U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  
 Daily Podcast  
 Trico Marine, Old Time Pottery, Zayat Stables: Audio  
 Trico Marine Services Inc.,  Old Time Pottery Inc.  and  Zayat
Stables LLC  are topics covered in the new bankruptcy podcast on
the Bloomberg terminal and Bloomberglaw.com. To listen, click
here.  
 Watch List  
 BP’s Bankruptcy Alternatives Surveyed, Analyzed  
 BP Plc may find that a Chapter 11 filing doesn’t provide
protection from claims resulting from the Gulf of Mexico oil
spill. Click here to read a Bloomberg survey of experts
discussing the advantages and shortcoming of a bankruptcy
filing.  
 An alternative for BP, where the U.S. court would play a
less prominent role, involves a filing for administration in the
U.K., accompanied by a Chapter 15 petition in the U.S. For a
discussion of the Chapter 15 possibilities, click here and
listen to Bloomberg Surveillance with Ken Prewitt and  Tom Keene .  
 Briefly Noted  
 Fremont Implements Plan Sponsored by Signature Group  
 Fremont General Corp. implemented the Chapter 11 plan on
June 11 that the bankruptcy judge formally approved in a June 9
confirmation order. Creditors initially had the ability to
select among five competing reorganization plans.  Signature
Group Holdings Inc . ended up with the plan the judge approved.
Signature’s plan pays all creditors in full and allows existing
shareholders to retain their stock, although diluted by new
shares issued under the plan. For details on the Signature plan,
click here for the May 13 Bloomberg bankruptcy report. For read
other Bloomberg coverage, click here.  
 Brea, California-based Fremont filed under Chapter 11 in
June 2008, just after regulatory approvals were given for the
sale of the bank subsidiary Fremont Investment & Loan to  CapitalSource Inc . The bank itself never was in bankruptcy. Each
of the plans reflected a proposal for how best to take advantage
of the company’s tax losses. Fremont filed lists saying assets
were $362 million and debt totaled $327 million.  
 The case is In re Fremont General Corp., 08-13421, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Central District California (Santa Ana).  
 Bear Island Creditors Still Investigate Secured Loans  
 The creditor’s committee for Bear Island Paper Co. LLC, a
U.S. subsidiary of  Canada ’s White Birch Paper Co., needs another
25 days to complete an investigation of the validity of pre-
bankruptcy secured claims. If granted by the bankruptcy judge at
a June 22 hearing, the new deadline would be July 9. The loan
for the Chapter 11 case has a deadline that requires signing up
a so-called plan-support agreement by today. Absent a plan, the
financing requires selling the business. Bear Island reported
there are several prospective buyers.  
 Nova Scotia-based White Birch is the second-largest
newsprint maker in North America. Together with U.S.
subsidiaries, it filed for reorganization simultaneously in the
U.S. and Canada in February. Secured liabilities include $438
million on a first-lien term loan, $104 million on a second-lien
term loan, $50 million on an asset-backed revolving credit, and
$51.5 million on swap agreements. Trade suppliers are owed $9.5
million. The companies had $667 million in sales during 2009,
with $125 million generated by Bear Island. White Birch has
three pulp and paper mills in the province of Quebec. The Bear
Island plant is in Ashland, Virginia. White Birch is controlled
by Brant-Allen Industries, according to Bloomberg Data.  
 The case is In re Bear Island Paper Co. LLC, 10-31202, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District Virginia (Richmond).  
 Advance Sheets  
 Joint Bank Debt Not Wiped Out in Wife’s Bankruptcy  
 A former wife who filed bankruptcy remained liable to her
former husband to pay her share of a $44,800 home-equity credit,
the 10th U.S. Circuit Bankruptcy Appellate Panel ruled in March.  
 The debt to the bank was incurred jointly by the couple
while they were married. The separation agreement provided the
former wife would pay $500 a month although she didn’t agree to
indemnify the former husband.  
 After the wife filed bankruptcy, the former husband sued
for a declaration that the wife’s share of the bank debt wasn’t
discharged. The husband won, and the wife appealed,
unsuccessfully.  
 The appellate panel said it didn’t matter that the wife
hadn’t agreed to indemnify the husband or hold him harmless from
the bank debt. The panel also said it didn’t matter that the
bankruptcy filing prevented the bank from suing the wife. She
remained liable to the husband.  
 The debt wasn’t discharged in bankruptcy as a result of
2005 changes in Section 523(a)(15) of the Bankruptcy Code that
prevent eradication of debts to a former spouse.  
 The case is Woodark v. Woodark (In re Woodark), 09-049,
Bankruptcy Appellate Panel for the U.S. 10th Circuit.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Rochelle in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        