-- Wah Kwong Maritime Plans Expansion to Tap China Growth; IPO Window Closed
-- Stephen Engle
-- 2010-06-15T04:56:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/wah-kwong-maritime-plans-expansion-to-tap-china-growth-ipo-window-closed.html

          
          
             Wah Kwong Maritime Transport
Holdings Ltd. , the Hong Kong shipping line that canceled plans
to sell shares in 2008, said it will proceed with a listing only
“if the climate was right.”  
 “At the moment, the IPO market for shipping companies,
that window is closed,” Chief Executive Officer  Timothy Huxley 
said in a Bloomberg Television interview today. “We don’t
actually need to do it at the moment and going forward, we will
certainly look at it again if the climate was right.”  
 Wah Kwong canceled a Hong Kong IPO in June 2008 because of
weak demand for new shares. This year  Xinjiang Goldwind Science
& Technology Co.  and Swire Properties Ltd. shelved plans to sell
shares as Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index  lost ground, falling 8
percent year-to-date, and Europe’s debt crisis curbed investor
interest in new listings.  
 Even without funds from an IPO, Wah Kwong plans to increase
its fleet of bulk carriers and tankers to meet demand growth in
China. It intends to increase its fleet to about 30 by early
2012 and has the financing “in place” for the expansion,
Huxley said, without elaborating.  
 The company had 11 carriers and tankers, according to its
May 2008 IPO prospectus. In August 2008, it ordered two
supertankers for $280 million for delivery in 2011. It will fund
the project with cash and bank loans.  
 “For the tanker market, things are looking pretty
optimistic there and again one of the key drivers there is
obviously the imports into China,” Huxley said. “The majority
of growth in seaborne oil trade is trade into China.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wing-Gar Cheng  in Hong Kong at 
 wgcheng@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephen Engle  in Beijing at 
 sengle1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        