-- Why $1 Trillion May Thwart Afghanistan Dreams: Amity Shlaes
-- Amity Shlaes
-- 2010-06-15T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/why-1-trillion-may-thwart-afghanistan-dreams-amity-shlaes.html

          
          
             Now those tribes really have something
to fight over. In case you haven’t heard the mind-blowing news,
impoverished Afghanistan has increased its potential net worth
by a factor of 83 overnight.  
 Afghan mining experts may view the discovery of $1 trillion
in natural resources as a new “backbone” for their economy, as
one labeled it. But Afghanistan already fights over resources
such as poppy plants.  
 The new bounty might escalate the already troubling
conflict there into a global conflagration involving every
meaningful power. It isn’t hard to imagine Afghanistan’s tribes,
the Taliban, and, say, U.S. oil companies, President  Vladimir Putin  and the cash-rich Chinese all jumping in.  
 The research about resource wealth in the post-World War II
period seems to confirm likelihood of an infelicitous outcome.
The same studies, though, also define both a principle and a
country that offer hope for Afghanistan. The principle is
property rights, and the country is Botswana.  
 But first, the gloomy record. In case after case, evidence
suggests that the presence of natural resource wealth in a
country isn’t a blessing but a curse, fostering political
instability and, paradoxically, slowing economic growth.  
 Russia’s revenue from oil gave Putin the power he needed to
take the country half way back to Stalinism. Zimbabwe’s
farmland, platinum, gold, coal and cotton enabled  Robert Mugabe 
to tyrannize that land for decades. In Nigeria, the impact of
$1.6 trillion in oil cash over time has been pollution and
poverty along with the black-hooded MEND, the creepy guerrilla
group that patrols the Niger River delta, kidnapping and
sabotaging.  
 Iron and Maoists  
 Diamonds buried within its hills didn’t exactly bring
peaceful prosperity to Sierra Leone in the 1990s, as we saw in
the 2006 film “ Blood Diamond .”  Even in India, one of the
globe’s significant success stories, a nasty battle involving
iron ore is strengthening Maoist Naxalites and destabilizing the
state of Chhattisgarh.  
 Formal  studies  convey the same bleak story. Oil wealth
makes countries less friendly to entrepreneurs and less
hospitable to the U.S, my colleague Gaurav Tiwari and I found.
Groundbreaking  analysis  years ago by economist  Jeffrey Sachs ,
now the director of Columbia University’s Earth Institute,
represented the first non-Marxist characterization of natural
resources as a curse.  
 Scholars earlier identified a narrower version of that
curse,  Dutch Disease . This is the phenomenon whereby sales of
oil or another natural resource harden the national currency,
worsening trade for other export sectors and thereby killing
them off.  
 Avoiding the Curse  
 Some countries have escaped the resource curse. One example
is where the rule of law generally, and property rights
specifically, are already well established when large deposits
of natural resources were discovered. The U.K. survived, and
benefitted, following discoveries of North Sea oil in the 1970s.
Canada fared well after its discoveries of resource wealth.  
 The cause of a nation’s continued stability seems to be
property rights. It mattered less who owned the resources --
governments, companies or a combination -- than that those
rights were clear and respected. It helped too that citizens
trusted their government to share the wealth over time.  
 Botswana Model  
 More like Afghanistan is Botswana, which also has tribes
and was fragile when it gained dependence. Over time, and with
many twists and turns, Botswana resisted pure permanent
nationalization. Instead it created Debswana, a profit-share
agreement with the diamond company De Beers SA.  
 At the same time, the government committed to fight
corruption and enforce the rule of law. Both the people of
Botswana and the company shareholders benefitted. A nonprofit
group, the  Property Rights Alliance , ranks Botswana 44th in the
world in property rights among nations, whereas Nigeria is 109
and Zimbabwe ranks 121.  
 Infant mortality  in Botswana has dropped to 26 per thousand
in 2008 from 118 in 1960. That compares with less dramatic drops
to 62 from 97 in neighboring Zimbabwe and to 96 from 157 in oil-
rich Nigeria.  
 “Botswana’s post-colonial leadership, particularly  Seretse Khama  and Quett Masire, and also its major economic elites were
committed to democracy, economic development, secure property
rights and fairly orthodox macroeconomic policies,” says  Daron
Acemoglu , the economist at the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology who first called attention to  Botswana ’s achievement.  
 Implications for Afghanistan  
 The takeaways for Afghanistan are controversial. The first
is that a functioning and representative government is
necessary. To skip town after overseeing the establishment of a
loose federation of tribes, which is the U.S. impulse, is to
guarantee that any “backbone” becomes a bone of contention
instead.  
 Rule of law and good leadership at the outset (right now)
are likewise crucial. Property rights are primary, not
secondary. It matters less who owns something than that the
rights of ownership be clear. Last, citizens must know they may
claim a share of some form in the mineral wealth, currently, or
in the future.  
 Marketing such ideas is going to be next to impossible,
especially after the BP Plc oil disaster. Still, a positive
alternative to the Botswana property-rights model is hard to
imagine. If Afghanistan and its neighbors made war over
resources above the ground, why should resources below promise
an outcome any different?  
 ( Amity Shlaes , senior fellow in economic history at the
Council on Foreign Relations, is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Amity Shlaes at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        