-- Zapatero to Impose Labor Overhaul, Angering Spanish Employers and Workers
-- Emma Ross-Thomas
-- 2010-06-15T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/zapatero-to-impose-labor-market-overhaul-angering-employers-workers.html

          
          
             Spanish Prime Minister  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero , facing a surge in borrowing costs as he
tries to tame one of Europe’s biggest  budget deficits , today
announces a labor-law overhaul that risks further eroding his
support among voters and investors.  
 Zapatero, a Socialist and union member, presents his plan
after unions and employers failed to agree on changes in a year
of off-and-on talks. He plans to ease firing rules for employers
in economic difficulty, while discouraging an over-reliance on
temporary hiring to trim a 20 percent  jobless  rate, the euro
area’s highest. Employers say the proposal doesn’t go far
enough. Unions have called the first general strike in eight
years.  
 Zapatero is trying to convince investors he can trim the
euro region’s third-largest deficit, shore up the country’s
banks and lift the  economy  out of a two-year slump. With opinion
polls showing confidence in his minority government sliding,
Zapatero is struggling to find the parliamentary support he
needs to remain in power. Last month his austerity package,
including civil servant wage cuts, passed by a one-vote margin.  
 “The labor reform is putting strain on the government and
shows that other austerity measures may be harder to implement
than we thought before,” said  Olaf Penninga , who helps manage
140 billion euros ($172 billion) at Rotterdam-based Robeco
Group. “It seems it’s getting more problematic to pursue the
needed austerity.”  
 Yield Premium  
 The extra  yield  investors demand to hold Spanish debt
rather than German equivalents surged to 210 basis points
yesterday, almost 10 times the average spread over the last
decade. The gap reached a euro-era record on 215.6 on June 8 on
speculation Spain may follow Greece in needing an EU bailout to
finance its rising debt.  
 Spain has some of the highest firing costs in Europe for
permanent, or open-ended, contracts, according to the World
Bank’s  Doing Business  index. A quarter of workers are on
temporary contracts that offer little security and benefits, and
the unemployment rate among young people is 40 percent.  
 The crux of the reform will extend the use of contracts
that give 33 days severance pay per year worked rather than the
traditional 45 days, making it cheaper to fire workers. The
government will also make it harder to use temporary contracts,
which employers often renew repeatedly to avoid offering workers
the long-term protection of a permanent contract.  
 ‘Just Patches’  
 “These are just patches,” said Angel Laborda, chief
economist at the Spanish savings bank foundation Funcas, who
says the changes must also address collective bargaining and
create a single contract for all workers. “The reform may stop
short of what’s needed, with the aim of not upsetting anyone.”  
 Spain’s Cabinet will approve the new rules by decree today,
and send them to parliament for ratification on June 22.
Lawmakers in parliament may then offer a series of amendments, a
process that can take months. The main opposition groups,
including the People’s Party, declined to say yesterday whether
they would back the legislation.  
 The labor changes come less than a month after Zapatero
squeaked by in the vote in parliament on his austerity plan,
which includes wage cuts for workers and a freeze on pensions.
Those budget cuts have sapped Zapatero’s popular support and
prompted parties that had allied with the Socialists in the past
to abandon him in the May 27 vote in Madrid.  
 The People’s Party, a traditionally pro-business party
which has started defining itself as the party of “workers,”
has opened up an 11.8 percentage point lead over the ruling
Socialists, according to a poll published in ABC newspaper on
June 14.  
 General Strike  
 Even as unions, Zapatero’s traditional allies, have called
a general strike on Sept. 29 to protest against the changes,
employers’ association  CEOE  has criticized the proposed overhaul
as “insufficient.” Employers and some economists say the
changes must address collective negotiating of labor contracts.  
 According to comments from the government so far, the plan
probably won’t address collective wage agreements, which
economists say is crucial to regaining competitiveness lost
since the euro was introduced and cutting the jobless rate. Wage
bargaining contributed to Spanish labor costs rising by an
annual average rate of 4 percent since Spain entered a two-year
recession in 2008.  
 Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA  Chairman  Francisco Gonzalez  said on June 14 that mechanisms for determining
salaries in Spain are “unsuitable” and should be
decentralized, as he called for an “urgent” overhaul.  
 “They need to overhaul the whole thing,” said Gayle
Allard, an economics professor at the IE business school who
specializes in the labor market. “If they’re going to fix this
they have to reform collective bargaining.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma Ross-Thomas  in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Spain's prime minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero. Photographer: Denis Doyle/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
