-- MTV Networks to launch international HD channel
-- By  Kenneth Li
-- Mon Sep 1, 2008 4:31am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/09/01/businesspro-mtv-europe-dc-idUSN2947062320080901

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Viacom Inc's VIAb.N MTV Networks 
International will launch its first high definition cable 
channel outside the United States this month, with more in 
Europe and Latin America by the end of the year, as it tempers 
its growth plan with stricter cost controls. 

  The new channel, MTVNHD (MTV Networks High Definition), 
will make its debut on September 15 and will carry over 300 
hours of new music and programming for kids.  Unlike MTV's earlier launches of networks, which were in 
local languages, MTVNHD will air shows in English initially.  It will first launch in Belgium, Denmark, Finland, Norway, 
Poland and Sweden.  Then France, Germany, the Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, the 
UK, Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Mexico and Venezuela 
will get the high definition programming by the end of 2008.  MTV Networks' ability to launch quickly in multiple regions 
-- albeit only in one language -- is derived from an experiment 
it started last year by consolidating production of some 
content in regional hubs that are used across several 
territories.  Its newest expansion is made possible by producing and 
broadcasting shows from Warsaw to cut down on costs.  A production center in Buenos Aires is expected to do the 
same for Latin America.  "Traditionally we would have launched country by country 
but it would have taken awhile before we launched to the 
world," MTVN International President Robert Bakish said in a 
phone interview."  Last year, it began creating graphics and producing news 
segments in Milan for several of its European networks.  The European audience for high definition programming, 
which offers crisper pictures and much improved sound, is 
limited to only about 2.5 million owners of HD TV sets, but 
demand for good content is high, Bakish said. An estimated 37 
million U.S. homes have HD TV sets, according to research firm 
Strategy Analytics.  "Over the next 18 months, people will be pleasantly 
surprised over the take-up of HD," Bakish said. "If you talk to 
operators around the world ... they really don't have enough 
product."  (Editing by  Gary Hill )