-- Digital Sauna Hot, Koreans Cool at Trade Show: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- Rich Jaroslovsky
-- 2010-01-15T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-01-14/digital-sauna-hot-koreans-cool-at-trade-show-rich-jaroslovsky.html

          
          
             I've been to a lot of political
conventions. Last week was my first Consumer Electronics Show.
They have more in common than I would have thought.  
 On the surface, both are about big, public performances
designed to sell to a mass audience, whether it's presidential
candidates or 3-D televisions.  
 The more interesting stuff at both venues often isn't what
gets the full-court, prime-time exposure, but what happens on
the margins: the networking and the discovery of potential
stars.  
 As I roamed the vast Las Vegas Convention Center, some of
the most arresting examples of attractive design came from
Korean companies. Amid all the hoopla about 3-D TV, which will
require more content and some cessation of various format wars
before it takes off, I found myself impressed with new flat
panel sets from LG Electronics Inc. These are so unbelievably
thin -- barely a quarter of an inch -- they make the plasma
screen in my den look as thick as an encyclopedia.  
 Also striking was a line of distinctive Windows netbooks,
which I had begun to think was a contradiction in terms, and
tablets from Yukyung Technologies Corp., under its Viliv brand.
One model included a swiveling screen and touch screen; another
was a palmtop with a solid-state disk drive that weighed less
than a pound.  
 Finally, Insprit Inc. was showing its Inbrics MID M1, a
slim smartphone based on Google Inc.'s Android operating system
with a sliding physical keyboard and a distinctive black-and-
white look.  
 Eye-Fi  
 Wandering through the South Hall -- or was it the North
Hall? -- I stumbled upon the booth belonging to Eye-Fi Inc., a
Mountain View, California-based company that makes Wi-Fi-enabled
memory cards for cameras. It was demonstrating a new product,
the Eye-Fi Pro X2, which effectively offers endless memory.  
 The Pro X2 is an 8-gigabyte SD card that allows you to
wirelessly upload your pictures straight from your camera to
more than 25 sharing Web sites, including Facebook, Yahoo!
Inc.'s Flickr, Google's Picasa and Apple Inc.'s MobileMe. Even
better, it will wirelessly transfer your video and image files
to your laptop without need for a router. And once your files
are safely off-loaded, the card automatically frees up space so
you can start filling it again.  
 At $149.99 on Amazon.com, the card isn't cheap. But it's
another step toward the trend of connectivity in devices that
you might not expect to be "Internet-enabled." Hey, if you can
get a (usually mediocre) camera into every smartphone, why not
Wi-Fi in every decent camera?  
 Keeping Tabs  
 Speaking of connectivity, another item that caught my eye
was the $11,000 mPulse infrared sauna from Sunlighten in
Overland Park, Kansas. My interest was piqued not for the
obvious sybaritic reasons (well, OK, not only for the obvious
sybaritic reasons) but for one of its options: a wristwatch
monitor that measures heart rate, calories burned and other
relevant information and automatically and wirelessly uploads it
to a personal wellness Web site.  
 The technology for always-on personal-health monitoring
will likely grow in importance as sensors become ever less
obtrusive, online access becomes more ubiquitous and government
pressures grow on the health-care system to focus on preventive
efforts in order to hold down costs.  
 Meanwhile, you can always just sit back in the 7-foot-by-6-
foot enclosure and enjoy the integrated stereo system, or watch
a video on the built-in 7-inch color screen. Who says health-
care reform can't be fun?  
 Speaking of video, Sezmi Corp., a Belmont, California-based
startup, was demonstrating its cable- and satellite-alternative
TV service, which it's currently testing in Los Angeles and
plans to roll out to additional markets this year.  
 Technology Mash-Up  
 The service is essentially a mash-up of broadcast and
Internet technologies. Sezmi has deals with a number of popular
cable channels, including USA Network, Discovery, CNN and Comedy
Central, to encrypt their feeds and broadcast them over the air
to customers, who get them via an indoor antenna box. At the
same time, the service provides a library of movies and TV shows
for rent or purchase that are delivered over the Internet.  
 Sezmi's DVR-like set-top box, which can store up to one
terabyte of content, ties everything together with a common
interface. Each user can have his or her own profile on the box,
which will also recommend programs based on individual
preferences and viewing habits. What makes Sezmi attractive is
that the consumer won't need to know or care how the content is
delivered -- just that it's there.  
 Deals to Cut  
 The cost of the Sezmi hardware may depend on deals it cuts
with telephone companies and other resellers; the service will
charge $4.99 a month for broadcast, video-on-demand and some Web
content, or $24.99 for Sezmi's full slate of cable channels.  
 Finally, although I sadly missed the actual event, the best
marketing ploy had to belong to Marvell Technology Group Ltd.,
whose chips power e-readers and smartphones. To highlight its
role in digital content, it brought in the most recognizable
name associated with the "other" Marvel -- the one without the
extra l, the comic-book company recently acquired by Walt Disney
Co.  
 That would be Stan Lee, the legendary creator of Spider-
Man, Iron Man and the X-Men, who was autographing posters.
Seldom has a spelling error been so cleverly deployed.  
 (Rich Jaroslovsky is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  
 Click on "Send Comment" in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Rich Jaroslovsky in New York at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        