-- Mercedes $200,000 Gullwing Revives 1950s Class: Jason H. Harper
-- Jason H. Harper
-- 2010-01-14T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-01-14/mercedes-200-000-gullwing-revives-1950s-class-jason-h-harper.html

          
          
             It’s got two wings and, boy, does it
fly.  
 I’m soaring up a steep hill in Mercedes-Benz’s new $200,000
supercar, the SLS AMG. Nearing the top, I squeeze on the carbon-
ceramic brakes, sweep right to left on the pebbly asphalt, then
tuck the supersized beak down a coiling hill -- the infamous
blind corkscrew at California’s Mazda Raceway Laguna Seca.  
 I spiral down, stomach dropping, grin spreading. Birds on
the wing indeed.  
 Like fashion designers, car companies love to dip into
their pasts for inspiration (or outright appropriation). Few
models make such an obvious target as the startlingly beautiful
1950s 300 SL Gullwings. Lithe autos with rounded corners and
signature doors hinged at the roof, good examples will go at
auction for around $500,000.  
 No one was surprised to see a modern interpretation from
Benz, though I wish they’d simply called it a Gullwing and been
done with it.  
 Every supercar has its own niche. A Ferrari 430 Scuderia is
meant for the track, a Bentley Continental GT for Malibu. With
the SLS, you could swing into Thomas Keller’s The French Laundry
without a tinge of nouveau-riche embarrassment -- valets will
still swoon when the doors swing aloft. Yet the next morning
might find you rocking around Laguna Seca at top speed. This is
a supercar with class.  
 Design First  
 Mercedes’s last supercar was developed with the U.K.’s
McLaren Automotive. This time they turned to their own in-house
tuning arm, AMG. Based in Affalterbach, AMG modifies existing
models to be lighter, faster, more powerful. This is the first
time the division has designed a car from the ground up.  
 The coupe will be released this spring. Price, estimated to
be under $200,000 before add-ons, is surprising. Cheap is an odd
word to use here, but that sticker is commensurate with
Mercedes’s own SL65 AMG convertible and vastly less expensive
than the SLR McLaren’s $500,000 sticker.  
 With one foot in the past and another in the future, the
SLS falls short of the simple beauty of its forbear. The Cyrano
de Bergerac-worthy schnoz easily houses the engine, and the
elongated proportions are emphasized by the vertical grill. The
cockpit seems impossibly far back and side windows are small. An
unmistakable profile, but the back end forms a V reminiscent of
an Acura sedan -- faint praise indeed.  
 The SLS looks best when both doors are open and pointing
toward the sky, almost a victory V. Too bad you can’t actually
drive with it like that -- it would play hell with aerodynamics
at the 197 mph top speed.  
 007 Gadgetry  
 A handle pops out of the door when you unlock it, a neat
bit of 007 gadgetry. But be careful when exiting; I repeatedly
knocked my head.  
 My test version was dark silver with a light tan interior
and carbon-fiber accents. The inside is simple, with an all-
business steering wheel that captures your thumbs for the
correct driving position and a navigation screen situated front-
and-center. Seats cradle and secure.  
 Power is ferocious. It’s impossible not to hear the call of
the autobahn when you fire up the 6.3-liter V-8. It’s rough and
rumbly but not brashly loud, emitting burbling pops and snarls
as the transmission downshifts. The 563 horsepower and 479
pound-feet of torque will thrust to 60 mph in 3.8 seconds.  
 And oh that transmission! The seven-speed dual-clutch is a
brilliant background player, intuiting your whims and needs like
a psychic thing. Bring your foot off the gas and it knows
whether you mean to coast through a curve or if you want to drop
a gear in anticipation of unleashing extra torque. After 2 days
on roads and track I wanted to buy it a Hefeweizen.  
 Gun Barrel  
 The SLS drives like a big car. The cockpit is so far back
that one sights down the long hood like a gun barrel, carefully
aiming down narrow roads. Still, it’s effortless enough to
manage about town and the suspension compliantly soaks up bumps
and divots.  
 Switch the driving mode to sport and that familiar, easy-
riding Benz character mutates into a rowdy, hungry thing. And in
sport plus, the corralled movements of the tires are really let
loose, allowing for tail-wagging oversteer and rubber-screaming
skids that unleash the car’s true sporting capabilities.  
 I negotiate the last tricky corner at Laguna Seca, sliding
just so, then kick up speed on the long front straight. This is
no CEO coddler: It makes demands of the driver, allowing you to
determine your own fate.  
 A point that becomes clear as I catch up to another SLS and
watch as the pilot unwisely accelerates into a descending left-
hand curve and promptly spins off the track, kicking up a
whirlwind of dust. I use it as an opening to blast by.  
 Around town the SLS handles like a dove. Out here it’s a
bird of prey.  
 The 2011 Mercedes-Benz SLS AMG at a Glance  
 Engine: 6.3-liter V-8 with 563 horsepower and 479 pound-
feet of torque.  
 Transmission: 7-speed double-clutch automatic.  
 Speed: 0 to 60 in 3.8 seconds.  
 Gas mileage per gallon: 18.8 combined.  
 Price as tested: $212,000 (estimated).  
 Best features: The spectacular transmission and yes, those
doors.  
 Worst feature: The car looks best when the doors are open.  
 Target buyer: A superstar looking for a supercar with
class.  
 (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com .  
          
          


  


        