-- `Cowboy' Code Name Hid Southwest in Talks to Acquire AirTran
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2010-10-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/-cowboy-code-name-masked-southwest-in-talks-to-acquire-airtran.html
Southwest Airlines Co.  Chief
Executive Officer  Gary Kelly  set in motion the largest purchase
in the carrier’s 39-year history by setting up a meeting that he
thought might backfire.  His conversation with  AirTran Holdings Inc.  CEO  Bob Fornaro 
in a suburban Dallas hotel in May began five months of talks
that ended in the Sept. 27 announcement that Southwest would buy
the company for $1.4 billion in cash and stock. Fornaro came
expecting to discuss a marketing alliance, Kelly said.  “I just picked up the phone and called Bob,” Kelly, 55,
said in an interview at Southwest’s Dallas headquarters. “I was
purposely vague. I said, ‘Do you want to sit down and explore
what we can do together?’ It wasn’t until we actually met in
person a couple of weeks later that I laid out what I wanted to
talk about. I didn’t know if he’d get up and leave or not.”  The acquisition was Kelly’s solution to the puzzle of how
to move past a self-imposed halt to seating-capacity growth that
would have been the longest dormant period since the airline
started flying in 1971.  “In hindsight, the timing was perfect,” said  Ray Neidl ,
an analyst at Maxim Group LLC in New York. “Nine months ago,
the economic situation wasn’t as stable. Everyone was still in a
state of shock with the financial system and the economy and
there was talk of a double-dip recession. Now we know that they
started looking at it in the spring” as travel began reviving.  Football Theme  Southwest, the biggest discount carrier, and AirTran held
meetings in Atlanta and New York, and referred to themselves in
documents and e-mail by code names, so any outsider seeing the
references couldn’t identify the companies.  Southwest was “Cowboy” after its hometown National
Football League team, while AirTran was “Falcon,” for the NFL
franchise in Atlanta. AirTran’s biggest operations are in
Atlanta, the only major U.S. city that Southwest doesn’t serve
and the centerpiece of the acquisition.  “Secrecy and avoiding leaks was absolutely paramount,”
Fornaro, 57, said yesterday in an interview.  The deal celebrated by  Southwest executives  with a shot of
tequila at their offices at Dallas Love Field started taking
shape over iced tea when Kelly and Fornaro sat down at the
Westin Stonebriar hotel in Frisco, a drive of about 40 minutes
north of downtown Dallas.  “I didn’t know what the subject was,” said Fornaro, who
became CEO at the Orlando, Florida-based carrier in November
2007. “I was really kind of guessing.”  Kelly said Fornaro left that first get-together without
giving an answer. The AirTran CEO later called back to say that
while the airline wasn’t for sale, “they would be willing to
entertain an acquisition by Southwest,” said Kelly, who has run
the discount carrier since 2004.  July Offer  The two sides signed a non-disclosure agreement in June,
followed by Southwest’s first offer in July, according to the
airlines. Discussions on the terms began in August and
September, Fornaro said.  “Both parties are stubborn and good negotiators,” Kelly
said.  AirTran, the eighth-largest  U.S. airline  by traffic, was
already the subject of analysts’ commentary as a likely
candidate for consolidation.  With  Delta Air Lines Inc.  buying Northwest Airlines Corp.
in 2008 and the merger closing today between  UAL Corp. ’s United
Airlines and  Continental Airlines Inc. , Wall Street has been
watching for more deals, because bigger networks help carriers
win more passengers. Southwest is No. 5 in the U.S. by traffic.  ‘Added Urgency’  “The competitive backdrop absolutely added urgency for
AirTran to somehow become a stronger airline, and that wasn’t
going to happen through organic growth,” said  Dan McKenzie , a
Hudson Securities analyst in Chicago who recommends buying
Southwest and AirTran. Maxim’s Neidl doesn’t rate the airlines.  AirTran fell 13 percent this year through Sept. 24, the
fourth-worst performance among the 12 carriers in the  Bloomberg
U.S. Airlines Index , compared with a 7.4 percent gain for
Southwest.  Southwest had made only two previous acquisitions since
founders  Herb Kelleher  and  Rollin King  drew up the airline’s
original routes on a cocktail napkin in 1967, buying Muse Air in
1985 and Morris Air in 1993. Both deals were overseen by
Kelleher, who stepped down as CEO in 2001 and chairman in 2008.  As the AirTran talks unfolded, Kelly consulted with
Kelleher, 79, who maintains an office at Southwest while no
longer being involved in the company’s operations. He declined
to be interviewed.  ‘Sounding Board’  “For me, he is a wonderful adviser and counselor and
sounding board,” said Kelly, who has worked at Southwest since
1986. “You can assume he’s given me good, sound advice on this
deal, too.”  At AirTran, only seven or eight people knew about the
negotiations before the middle of last week, Fornaro said.  The final approvals came on Sept. 26, a Sunday, with votes
by both airlines’ boards. Fornaro said he and general counsel
 Steve Rossum  then flew to Dallas, where Southwest employees
worked past midnight to clear the way for a statement to be
issued before 6 a.m. local time the next day.  Kelly gave Fornaro a model of a  Boeing Co.  737, the only
plane type in Southwest’s fleet. Fornaro presented Kelly with a
model of one of AirTran’s Boeing 717s painted in the black-and-
red livery of the Atlanta Falcons, a nod to the carrier’s code
name.  Pen Exchange  Fornaro said he also received a “nice” metal Southwest
pen from Kelly, and “I gave him a plastic AirTran pen.”  Each  AirTran share  will be exchanged for $3.75 in cash and
0.321 share of Southwest common stock. Including AirTran debt
and capitalized aircraft operating leases, the value is about
$3.4 billion, the airlines said. The Southwest subsidiary
created for the deal is Guadalupe Holdings Corp., in honor of a
conference room where some of the talks were held.  The combined airline will keep Southwest’s name,
headquarters and aircraft paint scheme, as well as policies such
as accepting two checked bags without a fee and not assigning
seats.  For Southwest, the deal brings gates in Atlanta, the
world’s busiest airport, along with the route system of a
profitable partner and the opportunity to expand in both New
York and Washington.  Southwest also secured 86 smaller jets -- something it’s
toyed with adding for at least a decade -- an international
network and a compelling reason to consider ordering the Boeing
737-800, its largest plane ever.  “Here we’ve found the key,” Kelly said. “We can buy
AirTran, which brings with it profits and, in addition to that,
we can tune our two companies together and generate more
profits. We were determined to find a way to restart our growth
plan.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Schlangenstein  in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  