-- ‘Freakonomics’ Film Features Cheating Sumo Wrestlers, Temptress
-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 2010-10-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/-freakonomics-film-features-cheating-wrestlers-paid-students-temptress.html
Cheating sumo wrestlers, a girl named
Temptress, high-school students paid to get good grades and the
relationship between abortion and crime.  These seemingly incongruous subjects are explored in
“ Freakonomics ,” a fascinating documentary based on the best-
selling book that challenges conventional wisdom about economics
and human behavior.  The movie, which opens today, includes four main segments,
each directed by top documentary filmmakers. They’re linked by
several shorter pieces featuring the book’s authors,  Steven D. Levitt  and  Stephen J. Dubner .  Six directors worked on the film, including the team of
 Rachel Grady  and  Heidi Ewing  on one segment and Seth Gordon on
the introductions and segues. Three of the directors ( Morgan Spurlock , Grady and Ewing) have been nominated for Academy
Awards, one has won an Oscar ( Alex Gibney , “Taxi to the Dark
Side”) and another (Eugene Jarecki, “Why We Fight”) won the
top documentary prize at the  Sundance Film Festival .  “It’s like an all-star team,” “Freakonomics” producer
Chad Troutwine said in an interview at Bloomberg’s New York
headquarters, where he was joined by all the directors except
Grady and Gordon.  Troutwine let the directors choose their subjects.  Gibney, who once lived in Japan, picked the cheating
scandal that rocked the country’s ancient sport of sumo
wrestling. Analyzing data from sumo bouts, Levitt found that the
big-bellied grapplers sometimes lost matches on purpose to help
an opponent boost his ranking.  “In Japan there was an assumption that sumo was a pure
sport,” Gibney said. “But it turns out the pure image was
masking the corruption. It was all an elegant facade.”  Crime, Abortion  Jarecki’s segment examines the correlation between the
sharp crime decrease in the 1990s and Roe vs. Wade, the 1973
U.S. Supreme Court decision that legalized abortion. While many
attributed the drop in crime to tougher gun laws and larger
police forces, the authors of “Freakonomics” had a different
theory. They argued that legalized abortion reduced the number
of unwanted children, who are more likely to grow up in poverty
and commit crimes.  “Talking about abortion and crime is like crossing live
wires,” Jarecki said. “I’m sure it’s going to upset some
people. But that’s the whole idea behind the book -- that things
aren’t as simple as they appear.”  Cash for Grades  Ewing and Grady, who made “Jesus Camp” about a training
school for young evangelical Christians, tell a story that isn’t
in the book. It’s about an experiment at a Chicago high school
where freshmen earned cash rewards for getting good grades.  “It seemed like a harebrained idea,” Ewing said, “but it
got our attention. We know parenting and teachers have a big
impact on how kids do in school, but what about money? Can that
make a difference?”  Spurlock, who pigged out at McDonald’s every day for a
month to measure the health effects of junk food in “Super Size
Me,” had a personal motive to tackle the chapter on how names
affect peoples’ lives.  “My wife and I had just had our first child, so I was
obviously thinking about baby names,” said Spurlock, whose
piece examines what happened to a baby girl named Temptress and
two brothers named Winner and Loser.  ‘Wonderful Life’  Each segment reflects the cinematic style of the director.  Jarecki uses clips from “ It’s a Wonderful Life ,” where a
suicidal banker played by  Jimmy Stewart  learns how the lives of
his friends and family would have been altered if he had never
been born. Spurlock, Ewing and Grady spice up their stories with
humorous anecdotes, while Gibney’s sumo segment has a more
somber tone.  “All the other filmmakers constructed these magnificent
souffles, so rich but so light to the touch,” Gibney said.
“Mine was more like beef stroganoff, very heavy and thick.”  None of the directors saw their colleagues’ work until the
film premiered at the  Tribeca Film Festival  in April. Jarecki
compared the process to a Surrealist parlor game called the
Exquisite Corpse, where players take turns drawing body parts on
sections of a folded piece of paper. When the paper is finally
unfolded, everyone sees the result of their combined work.  “I hope this movie is exquisite, but not a corpse,”
Jarecki said.  ( Rick Warner  is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 