-- Abramovich’s Company Asks Ireland to Honor Bank Debt
-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 2010-10-02T10:47:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/abramovich-s-company-tells-ireland-not-to-renege-on-bank-debt.html
(Corrects company’s location in second paragraph of story
originally published yesterday.)  Millhouse LLC, an asset management
company that operates on behalf of Russian billionaire  Roman Abramovich , asked Ireland to honor bank securities after the
government said this week some investors would have to share the
burden of rescuing the financial system.  Millhouse, based in Moscow, owns lower Tier 2 bonds in
Dublin-based Irish Nationwide Building Society, director  Eugene Popov  said in a telephone interview today. He declined to say
how much of the securities Millhouse owns.  Irish Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said yesterday that
subordinated bondholders in Irish Nationwide would be treated
the same as those in nationalized  Anglo Irish Bank Corp. , as the
government tries to limit the cost of a bailout which may reach
50 billion euros ($68.7 billion). While he has said it would be
“unthinkable” to default on senior debt, he said that holders
of Anglo Irish’s subordinated debt should share the costs.  “We believe that any attempt to force losses on Irish
Nationwide lower Tier 2 debt holders will result in a huge
reputation loss and ultimately financial cost to the Irish and
European sovereigns and financial institutions,” said London-
based Popov. “We urge Irish authorities to re-consider their
position.”  Irish Nationwide sold 126 million pounds ($199 million) of
five-year, lower Tier 2 debt in August 2009, offering a coupon
of 13 percent and a government guarantee until yesterday. Lower
Tier 2 bonds are subordinated in that they typically take losses
only when a lender is being wound up.  Irish Nationwide, which already received 2.7 billion euros
in state aid, needs that amount again, Lenihan said yesterday.  Popov said Millhouse would question the legality of any
decision to compel bondholders to take losses on their
securities. A Finance Ministry spokesman said Lenihan had
consulted with lawyers about his position.  Lenihan said yesterday that legislation is being prepared
to “address the issue.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dara Doyle at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  