-- AEP Says Deadlines for Cutting Power Plant Air Pollution Are `Unrealistic'
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2010-10-01T17:34:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/aep-says-deadlines-for-cutting-power-plant-air-pollution-are-unrealistic-.html
  American Electric Power Co. , which
owns utilities selling power in 11 U.S. states, said deadlines
to curb pollution by 2012 and 2014 proposed by the Obama
administration are “unrealistic,” according to comments filed
with the Environmental Protection Agency today.  The rules, proposed on July 6, would limit trading of
pollution allowances while slashing sulfur dioxide, which
produces acid rain, and nitrogen oxide, the cause of smog. They
would cut sulfur dioxide by 71 percent by 2014 from 2005 levels
and nitrogen oxide by 52 percent over the same period, according
to the EPA.  AEP comments come two days after its Chief Executive
Officer  Mike Morris  said the Columbus, Ohio-based company will
probably be in compliance “without any hardware” with the 2012
and 2014 deadlines.  Utilities don’t have enough time to permit, construct and
install control equipment to limit emissions or replace
polluting plants with new capacity, the company said in the
filing today.  “AEP does not believe that the timelines and stringent
budgets within this proposed transportation rule are necessary
or justified,” according to the filing. “The proposed
transportation rule neglects to consider utility system planning
factors that affect unit retirement decisions and deadline-
driven resource and skilled labor shortages.”  Emissions from power plants have been linked to illnesses
such as asthma and heart attacks, EPA said.  AEP owns about 38,000 megawatts of power generation and
serves 5.2 million customers in Arkansas, Indiana, Kentucky,
Louisiana, Michigan, Ohio, Oklahoma, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia
and West Virginia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katarzyna Klimasinska  in Houston at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 