-- Thailand's Inflation Slows on Government Subsidies, Oil Price, Rising Baht
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2010-10-01T03:33:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/thailand-inflation-slowed-in-september-as-subsidies-capped-price-increases.html
Thailand’s inflation slowed in
September as oil costs eased and government subsidies helped
contain price pressures.  An index of  consumer prices  rose 3 percent last month from
a year earlier after climbing 3.3 percent in August, the
Commerce Ministry said in Nonthaburi province outside Bangkok
today. The median estimate of 14 economists in a Bloomberg
 survey  was for a 3.3 percent increase.  The baht advanced 6.8 percent last quarter, Asia’s best
performance, helping reduce the cost of oil and other imports.
Still, Southeast Asia’s largest economy after Indonesia raised
interest rates in July and August as inflation accelerated to
above 3 percent this year, and outgoing central bank Governor
 Tarisa Watanagase  said this week the benchmark rate remains low.  “The recent strengthening in the Thai baht is helpful in
restraining inflation,”  David Cohen , an economist at Action
Economics in Singapore, said before the report. Still, “the
statements from the central bank’s officials emphasizing their
need to keep a handle on inflation seem to suggest that they are
preparing the market for another rate hike.”  The Bank of Thailand raised its one-day bond repurchase
rate to 1.75 percent on Aug. 25 after the economy overcame
political unrest to expand faster than estimated in the second
quarter. The rate may climb to 2 percent by the end of the year
and 3 percent next year, the finance ministry said Sept. 27.  Core Inflation  Thailand’s core inflation index, which excludes fresh food
and fuel prices, rose 1.1 percent last month from a year earlier,
the Commerce Ministry said. The median forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey of 12 economists was for a 1.2 percent increase.  Tarisa reiterated on Sept. 28 that the core inflation,
which the central bank uses to guide policy, may reach the high-
end of its target range of as much as 3 percent next year as the
economy recovers. The forecast prompted the bank to make
preemptive moves this year as the transmission process for
monetary policy can take four to eight quarters, she said.  Prasarn Trairatvorakul , former president of Bangkok-based
Kasikornbank Pcl, took over as central bank governor today.  The government in June extended state subsidies on mass
transportation and energy costs for six months, while the
commerce ministry controls prices of key consumer products to
help reduce the public’s burden following political clashes in
the second quarter that killed at least 89 people.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Suttinee Yuvejwattana  in Bangkok at 
 Suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at   tjordan3@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  