-- Airgas Trial Over Air Products Takeover Bid to Focus on Annual Meeting
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2010-10-01T17:29:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/airgas-trial-over-air-products-bid-to-focus-on-challenge-of-meeting-date.html
Airgas Inc. , trying to fend off a
$5.5 billion hostile bid from  Air Products & Chemicals Inc. , may
face an uphill fight at trial next week when it challenges a new
bylaw that moves up the date of its annual meeting.  Managers of Airgas are asking Delaware Chancery Court Judge
 William B. Chandler III  in Georgetown to invalidate the bylaw,
which shareholders approved in a Sept. 15 vote that added three
Air Products nominees to the  Airgas board .  Air Products wants its nominees to take control of the
10-member Airgas board at the next annual meeting, set for
Jan. 18, and accept the takeover offer of $65.50 a share.  Airgas 
officials have repeatedly rejected bids from Allentown,
Pennsylvania-based Air Products, the second-biggest U.S.
industrial-gases producer behind  Praxair Inc.   “Airgas is in a tough position,”  Paul Regan , a professor
at Widener University Law School in Wilmington, who teaches
courses on merger-and-acquisition law, said in a phone
interview. “It’s well-established that shareholders can vote to
amend bylaws, and I don’t think Delaware law requires a 12-month
wait between annual meetings.”  During the week-long trial set to start Oct. 4 in
Georgetown, lawyers for Radnor, Pennsylvania-based Airgas will
argue that the bylaw wasn’t approved by a two-thirds majority of
investors and forces the company to hold the equivalent of two
annual meetings within a four-month period, according to court
filings.  ‘End Run’  Holding a meeting in the same fiscal year as the last one
illegally shortens board members’ terms, Airgas argued in court
papers.  The bylaw “is an attempt to end-run Delaware law,”  Andrew Siegel , a spokesman for Airgas, said in an e-mailed statement.
 Betsy Klebe , a spokeswoman for Air Products, declined to
comment.  Air Products  sued Airgas on Feb. 4, saying it violated
legal duties to shareholders by rebuffing the buyout offers.
 Airgas  filed a separate suit challenging the meeting-date bylaw
after the Sept. 15 vote. Chandler has agreed to hear all
arguments in the trial.  Air Products offered the amendment and a slate of
candidates for Airgas’s board as part of its takeover effort.
Under Airgas’s staggered board system, only a limited number of
directors are up for election at any time, making proxy fights
for control more difficult.  The bylaw to change the meeting date won 52 percent of
votes cast and 46 percent of shares eligible to vote, according
to Airgas. Shareholders also voted to oust three directors,
including  Peter McCausland , the company’s chairman and chief
executive officer.  Power Shift  If Chandler finds the bylaw passes muster, it could have
implications for other companies that use the staggered-board
defense,  Robert Daines , who teaches corporate law at Stanford
University Law School in California, said in a telephone
interview. About 40 percent of public companies have staggered
boards, he said.  A ruling against Airgas “could signal an important shift
in merger tactics and change the balance of power between
management and shareholders,” said Daines, the director of
Stanford’s Rock Center for Corporate Governance. “This could
really curtail management’s powers to discourage bids.”  During the past decade, Delaware judges have emphasized
investors’ voting rights and increasingly taken a “dim view of
things that thwart the will of shareholders,” said  Charles Elson , a University of Delaware finance professor and director
of the school’s John L. Weinberg Center for Corporate Governance
in Newark, Delaware.  Meeting Date  If a majority of Airgas investors properly voted to change
the meeting date, Chandler may be reluctant to interfere, Elson
said in a phone interview. “In my view, shareholder suffrage
virtually always trumps board authority,” he said.  That approach is at odds with a common-sense definition of
the phrase “annual meeting,” said  Tom Cole , a Chicago-based
lawyer at Sidley Austin who handles merger-and-acquisition
cases. The phrase implies such meetings should be at least 12
months apart, said Cole, who isn’t involved in the Airgas case.
Airgas’s fiscal calendar ends in March.  “You shouldn’t be able to have two annual meetings during
a single fiscal year,” Cole said in a phone interview. “It
would be logical to require them to wait until at least March to
have another meeting.”  Corporate Charters  Should Chandler allow the bylaw to stand, lawyers for
staggered-board companies will amend their corporate charters to
prevent sped-up meetings, Regan said.  “You’ll see boards move to set specific dates for their
meetings to close the door on this kind of maneuver,” said
Regan, acting director of Widener’s Institute of Delaware
Corporate and Business Law. “The sky is not falling on
staggered boards.”  The cases are Air Products & Chemicals Inc. v. Airgas Inc.,
5249, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington); and Airgas Inc. v.
Air Products & Chemicals Inc., 5817, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jef Feeley  in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 