-- Taiwan Mobile Says President Harvey Chang Resigned; No Replacement Named
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2010-10-01T06:55:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/taiwan-mobile-says-president-harvey-chang-resigned-no-replacement-named.html
Taiwan Mobile Co.  President and Chief
Executive Officer  Harvey Chang  stepped down after seven years
leading Taiwan’s second-largest mobile-phone operator.  Chang, 59, decided not to renew his contract and will
remain until it expires at year-end, the Taipei-based company
said today. The mobile operator plans to hire a replacement
internally and may announce the appointment within a few weeks,
Josephine Juan, a company spokeswoman, said by telephone.  Taiwan Mobile  shares  have surged 95 percent since Chang
took the helm on Sept. 8, 2003, outpacing the benchmark Taiex
index and larger rival  Chunghwa Telecom Co.  Under Chang’s
leadership, Taiwan Mobile overtook  Far EasTone
Telecommunications Co.  as Taiwan’s second-largest mobile
operator by customers, Juan said.  Taiwan Mobile fell 0.5 percent to NT$64.20 at the 1:30 p.m.
close in Taipei trading, while the  Taiex  rose 0.1 percent.  Juan said she isn’t aware of the reason for Chang’s
departure. The executive will become vice chairman of  Taiwan
Fixed Network Co. , Taiwan Mobile’s wholly owned fixed-line
subsidiary, the parent company said.  In addition to Chang and Chairman  Richard Tsai , Taiwan
Mobile has four other executives on its management team.  Vivien Hsu  is chief financial officer,  Cliff Lai  is chief operating
officer of consumer business,  George Chou  is chief operating
officer of enterprise business, and  James Jeng  is chief
technology officer, according to Taiwan Mobile’s  website .  Before taking the top post at Taiwan Mobile, Chang was
chief financial officer of  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing
Co. , the world’s largest maker of customized chips.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Culpan  in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net . 