-- Allianz `On Track' With Cost-Cutting Target, Chief Operating Officer Says
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2010-10-01T07:11:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/allianz-on-track-with-cost-cutting-target-chief-operating-officer-says.html
Allianz SE, Europe’s  biggest  insurer,
expects to reach its cost-cutting target as the company
automates documentation and client correspondence, Chief
Operating Officer  Christof Mascher  said.  Allianz aims to lower costs by about 250 million euros
($340 million) annually over four years through 2011 as European
insurers face pressure to offset price declines in some of the
biggest non-life segments, such as motor insurance. Reduced
investment returns because of low interest rates are also
weighing on the industry’s earnings.  “We are on track with our annual cost savings target,”
 Mascher , management board member at Allianz, said in an
interview at the firm’s Munich headquarters. “We will achieve
the goal this year and there are no indications that we won’t
make it in 2011, as we are even slightly ahead of the target.”  Mascher, 50, was appointed to the position in September
2009 to succeed  Oliver Baete , who was named chief financial
officer. Previously, Mascher was responsible for operations of
Allianz’s German unit. Born in Lienz, Austria, he started his
career at the insurer’s Vienna office in 1989.  Allianz, led by Chief Executive Officer  Michael Diekmann ,
55, combined its German life, health and property and casualty
insurance units under the Allianz Deutschland holding in 2006,
which involved cutting about 4,800 jobs.  Further job reductions in the German insurance business
that come with a higher level of automation, could be handled
through “normal staff fluctuation,” Mascher said.  ‘Almost No Paper’  The insurer opened a central mail-handling facility in
Berlin in 2007 that digitalizes as many as 700,000 pages of
correspondence and documents sent by clients and business
partners each day.  “There is almost no paper being used during our internal
workflows at the German unit and if you add the higher level of
automation connected to that, this initiative accounts for about
two-thirds of our savings target,” Mascher said.  Sending letters to customers in Germany currently costs
Allianz about 50 million euros a year, he said. The insurer,
with about 20 million retail clients in the country, expects to
correspond with 1 million clients via e-mail by the end of this
year, according to Mascher.  The insurer is facing annual cost inflation of about 2
percent to 3 percent, mostly due to higher labor and claims
expenses, he said, adding that he wants “to continuously
increase the productivity to balance this.”  Sales Agents  “If we achieve that each year without using extraordinary
measures, we’ve done a good job,” Mascher said.  Allianz, which employs the biggest tied-agent sales force
in Germany with about 10,000 full-time people, said last year
that it will offer web-only insurance through AllSecur in the
country, replacing the former Allianz 24 brand.  One of the insurer’s next major challenges will be managing
its distribution, according to Mascher, who said Allianz will
increase efforts to promote the direct insurance business.  “We will have to adjust our sales channels to changing
customer demand and offer the more commoditized coverage such as
motor insurance via internet and telephone,” he said. “We are
not too late in that area, but we can’t wait much longer and I’m
sure you’ll see more on this from us going forward.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Oliver Suess  in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  