-- American Apparel Said to Hire FTI to Help Operations
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r   a n d   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2010-10-01T20:22:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/american-apparel-said-to-hire-fti-consulting-to-help-shore-up-operations.html
American Apparel Inc. , the Los
Angeles clothing retailer in danger of being delisted, hired FTI
Consulting Inc. to help turn the company around, according to
three people familiar with the matter.  FTI is advising on liquidity and boosting productivity in
the company’s factories, said one of the people, who declined to
be named because the information isn’t public. West Palm Beach,
Florida-based  FTI , which advises companies on litigation,
mergers and restructuring matters, has worked with Circuit City
Stores Inc., CIT Group Inc. and Ritz Camera Centers Inc.  American Apparel, led by Chief Executive Officer  Dov Charney , fielded inquiries from regulators over changing
accounting firms and risks removal from the NYSE Amex for
failing to file financial reports on time. The company, which
targets young people with colorful T-shirts and dresses, has
posted back-to-back quarterly  losses  after expanding too fast.  Charney, 41, has stopped opening stores after boosting
locations by more than 50 percent in the past two years. While
new locations helped sales climb 41 percent in 2008, the gains
slowed to 2.5 percent last year as new stores cannibalized
business at older ones, Chief Financial Officer  Adrian Kowalewski  said in March.  Kowalewski didn’t immediately return a call seeking
comment. Nicole Madison, a spokeswoman for FTI, declined to
comment. Debtwire reported the company and FTI were in talks
earlier.  Today the retailer said it amended an $80 million  loan 
agreement with London-based Lion Capital LLP for a fourth time,
helping it avoid violating debt covenants. The change postponed
until next year a requirement for American Apparel to achieve an
earnings target.  Breach  In August, the company said operating losses might put it
in breach of a debt covenant, giving lenders the right to demand
immediate repayment. The new agreement requires the retailer to
post $20 million in  earnings  before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization in the 12-month period beginning
Jan. 31.  American Apparel rose 20 cents, or 16 percent, to $1.43 at
4:01 p.m. in NYSE Amex composite  trading . The exchange has given
the retailer until Nov. 15 to file its results for the quarter
ended June 30, following the change in auditors.  Deloitte & Touche LLP quit as the company’s auditor in July
and told American Apparel its 2009 financial  statements  may not
be reliable. The change prompted a subpoena from the U.S.
attorney’s office for the Southern District of New York and
inquiries from the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lauren Coleman-Lochner  in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net ;
 Matt Townsend  in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  