-- Manchester City Posts $192 Million Fiscal-Year Loss on Player Wage Bill
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2010-10-01T12:12:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/manchester-city-posts-192-million-fiscal-year-loss-on-player-wage-bill.html
Manchester City , the English soccer
club owned by  Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan , said its loss
jumped almost one-third on higher player wages.  Manchester City’s net loss in the year ended May 31 rose to
121.3 million pounds ($192 million) from 92.6 million pounds the
year before, the club said today on its website.  City has spent more than 350 million pounds on players
including  Carlos Tevez  and  Emmanuel Adebayor  since Sheikh
Mansour bought the club in 2008. Wages rose 61 percent to 133.3
million pounds. Total salaries were bigger than the club’s
revenue, which increased to 125.1 million pounds from 87 million
pounds.  Manchester City’s loss is one of the biggest in Premier
League history.  Chelsea , which is owned by Russian billionaire
 Roman Abramovich , posted a loss of 132.8 million-pound in June
2005, the highest in the history of English soccer.  Manchester City accounted for more than a third of the
total spent on new players by the Premier League’s 20 teams,
accountant Deloitte LLP said last month.  The Abu Dhabi ruling family member bankrolled City’s 125-
million pound outlay, the highest in England’s top division for
the second straight year. The spree comes as rivals try to
improve balance sheets amid pressure from lenders and new
financial rules established by European soccer’s governing body.  Developing Club  “The challenge I set my board and executive leadership
team is to develop City so that it is one of the most successful
clubs both on and off the pitch, but to do so without losing any
of the characteristics that make it so special,” Sheikh Mansour
said in a  letter to fans  posted on the club website.  Managed by Roberto Mancini, City is in fourth place in the
 Premier League , behind Chelsea, Manchester United, and Arsenal.  City is “virtually debt free,” according to its annual
report. The club said it only has 36 million pounds in long-term
commercial bank debt after Sheikh Mansour in January converted
305 million pounds of loans into equity.  Last season’s runs in the F.A. Cup and the Carling Cup
boosted ticket revenue, which rose close to 19 percent to 18.2
million pounds. Income from television rights jumped close to 12
percent to 54 million pounds, as the club’s highest-ever fifth
place finish in the Premier League led to a record 23 live
televised matches.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  