-- Manhattan Apartment Sales Jump 19% as Jobs Stabilize, Mortgage Rates Slide
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l   a n d   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2010-10-01T20:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/manhattan-apartment-sales-jump-19-as-jobs-stabilize-mortgage-rates-slide.html
Manhattan apartment sales jumped 19
percent in the third quarter from a year earlier, reaching the
second-highest level since 2008, as the city’s job market
stabilized and mortgage  rates  fell to record lows.  The number of completed sales climbed to 2,661 from 2,230 a
year earlier, New York appraiser  Miller Samuel Inc.  and broker
 Prudential Douglas Elliman  Real Estate said today. The median
price of co-ops and condos that changed hands increased 7.5
percent to $914,000 as buyers sought larger units.  The market is back to a “normal comfort level,” said
 Jonathan Miller , president of Miller Samuel. “We’re comparing
against last year when we weren’t fully off the floor. It’s
currently stable.”  New York City’s jobless rate stayed at 9.4 percent in
August, unchanged from July, the state  Department of Labor  said
Sept. 16. The city’s financial industry, which employed 433,200
in August, showed a net gain of 500 jobs over the previous 12
months. It was the first such increase in 2010 for the industry,
one of six to show higher year-over-year employment.  Properties stayed on the market an average of 125 days, or
26 percent less time than a year earlier, according to Miller
Samuel and Prudential. Listing discounts, which measure the
amount of money sellers subtracted from their last asking price
to strike a deal, fell to 5.8 percent from 7.6 percent.  Looking for Value  “Buyers have to perceive good value,” said  Hall Willkie ,
president of brokerage  Brown Harris Stevens , which also released
a report today. “If they didn’t, they wouldn’t be buying.”  Five reports issued today showed increases in closing
prices. Brown Harris and its sister firm,  Halstead Property LLC ,
reported a median price of $890,000 for Manhattan apartments
that sold in the quarter, a 14 percent rise over last year.  The  Corcoran Group  said the median price climbed 9 percent
from a year ago. StreetEasy.com, a service that compiles broker
listings, put the increase at 14 percent.  Historically low borrowing costs helped spur some buyer
activity, said  Gregory Heym , chief economist at Terra Holdings
LLC, which owns Halstead and Brown Harris.  Rates  for 30-year
mortgages fell to 4.32 percent in the week ended yesterday,
matching a record reached in early September, according to
Freddie Mac. The rate hasn’t been above 5 percent since May.  Cutting Monthly Payments  It’s the low rates that made buying a studio apartment an
easy decision for  Matthew Russell , 27, a salesman at Brown
Harris Stevens, who went into contract for a co-operative
apartment on Sept. 28. When the sale closes on his $397,700
alcove studio in the East Village, his monthly mortgage payments
will be $2,400 a month, or $800 less than the one-bedroom
apartment that he rents in the same neighborhood, he said.  “I’ve watched the market kind of decline, decline and
decline, and I feel like it’s at least leveling out,” Russell
said. “I couldn’t be happier that I’m downsizing and buying.”  After studying the Manhattan sales market for the last two
years, Kim Meehan-Bambino and her husband Laurence Bambino
decided that the third quarter was a good time to trade up. They
put their two-bedroom, two-bathroom co-op apartment in Chelsea
up for sale in June and had an offer two days later, said
Meehan-Bambino, who works as a fashion stylist. It is under
contract for $1.33 million, $400,000 more than they paid for it.  The couple, expecting their third child in December,
simultaneously put in an offer for a three-bedroom apartment in
a doorman building further east.  ‘New Normal’  “We’re calling it the ‘new normal,’” said  Pamela Liebman ,
chief executive officer of the Corcoran Group brokerage. “It’s
people who are buying because they want a new home and people
who are selling because it’s that time in their life. People are
not lining up to buy in a new development so they can flip it
within five minutes. That’s over.”  Two-bedroom apartments comprised 38 percent of properties
that sold in the quarter, compared with 30 percent of market
share last year, according to Miller Samuel and Prudential.
Studio apartments made up 9 percent of transactions, down from
17 percent a year ago. The shift toward larger apartments pushed
the median sales price higher, Miller and Liebman said.  “You don’t have the heavy first-time homebuyer that you
had,” Liebman said. “The buyers of the large apartments were
back in force.”  Studio apartment prices fell 7.4 percent from a year
earlier to a median of $375,000, Miller Samuel and Prudential
said. One-bedrooms slid 6.2 percent to a median of $610,000 and
two-bedrooms dropped 1.3 percent to $1.25 million. Three-bedroom
prices climbed 15 percent to a median of $2.7 million.  Pending Sales Drop  Pending sales, apartments in contract that haven’t closed,
declined 29 percent in the third quarter to the lowest level
since June 2009, according to  UrbanDigs.com , a real estate data
site launching next week that tracks Manhattan sales and listing
activity on a several-times-daily basis.  The decrease in pending sales, which can take an average of
12 to 16 weeks to close, suggests that fourth-quarter sales
volume could be less robust than in 2009’s final three months,
said Noah Rosenblatt, UrbanDigs.com founder.  New contracts fell 19 percent to 516 in September from the
previous month, according to a report from  StreetEasy.com ,  “Part of it is seasonality, and part of it is that it’s a
very slow recovery,” said Sofia Song, vice president of
research at StreetEasy.  Luxury Apartments  Sales of luxury apartments, defined as the top 10 percent
by price, jumped 19 percent in the third quarter to 266
transactions, Miller Samuel said. Their median price climbed
12.5 percent to $4.39 million.  Townhouse sales rose 12.5 percent from a year earlier,
according to StreetEasy. The median price climbed 7.9 percent to
$3.78 million.  On the Upper East Side, the median price of existing co-ops
increased 24 percent to $918,000 from a year earlier, according
to Corcoran. Condo prices in the neighborhood rose 28 percent to
a median of $1.2 million. On the Upper West Side, co-op re-sales
jumped 28 percent to a median of $894,000, while condo re-sales
climbed 7 percent to a $1.18 million.  The average price per square foot of condos south of 34th
Street climbed 5 percent to $1,201, according to Halstead and
Brown Harris.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net ;
 Danielle Kucera  in New York at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  