-- Mantega's Real `War' Causes Bond Market Pain as Yields Jump: Brazil Credit
-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f   a n d   T a t i a n a   B a u t z e r
-- 2010-10-01T21:53:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/mantega-s-real-war-causes-bond-market-pain-as-yields-jump-brazil-credit.html
Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega’s  bid to stem gains in the real is hurting him in the
bond market.  The yield on Brazil’s 10 percent securities due in 2021
surged 29 basis points this week, the biggest jump in four
months, after Mantega said he may raise taxes on foreigners’
fixed-income investments to limit the supply of dollars in the
currency market, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mantega is seeking to keep out foreign investors whose
asset purchases helped spark a 37 percent surge in the real
against the dollar since the end of 2008, the second-biggest
gain in emerging markets after the South-African rand. The
central bank bought $9.4 billion from Sept. 1 through Sept. 24
in the foreign-exchange market, the most over such a period
since the end of 2008, as part of an effort by policy makers
from Japan to Colombia to slow the appreciation of their
currencies.  “Foreign investors are not going to accept it passively,
and they are the most active in the longer end of the curve,”
said  Silvio Campos Neto , chief economist at Banco Schahin SA.
“That would mean a rising cost on public debt.”  Yields on Brazil’s overnight rate futures contract due in
2021 climbed 27 basis points, or 0.27 percentage point, this
week to 11.68 percent, the biggest weekly increase since May.  Foreigners held a record $89 billion of Brazilian local
bonds as of August, equal to 10.1 percent of the debt, according
to the  central bank . Five years earlier, they held 0.8 percent.  ‘Inappropriate Way’  Mantega, 61, said Sept. 27 that the government is
considering implementing a tax on short-term, fixed-income
investments as other countries engage in a “currency war” to
weaken their exchange rates and bolster exports. Brazil
implemented a 2 percent tax in October 2009 on foreign
investment in the stock and bond markets.  The government will increase that tax after an Oct. 3 vote
to elect a successor to President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva,
according to a Sept. 28 column by IG news services.  Dilma Rousseff , Lula’s former cabinet chief, leads opinion polls ahead
of the vote.  Mantega said that day that the government doesn’t plan to
increase the tax, known as the IOF, “at this time.”  “There is no plan to change the IOF,” Mantega told
reporters in Brasilia. “Of course all possibilities are open,
but only if the currency behaves in an inappropriate way.”  Rate Gap  The yield on the government’s 10 percent securities due in
2021 climbed 37 basis points in September to 11.89 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Yields on rate futures
contracts are up 38 to 11.65 percent during the same period.
They jumped 35 basis points to 13.19 percent in the two weeks
following the announcement of the tax in October 2009, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “They keep shooting themselves in the foot,” said  Pablo Cisilino , who helps manage $14 billion in emerging-market debt
at Stone Harbor Investment Partners in New York. “Every time
they increase the IOF tax, the curve steepens and we have to
withstand some volatility.”  Brazil’s 10.75 percent  benchmark interest rate , which is
900 basis points higher than the key rates in the U.S. and euro
zone, will preserve the allure of the country’s fixed-income
assets, said  Warren Hyland , the head of emerging-market credit
fund management at Schroder Investment Management Ltd.,  Brazil won’t have a “huge problem to borrow money from
international investors,” Hyland, who helps oversee $255
billion in assets at Schroder, said in a phone interview from
London. “It’s a very liquid market.”  Inflation Forecast  Brazil’s  current-account deficit , which reached a record
$45.8 billion in the 12 months ending August, will widen to $60
billion in 2011, the central bank forecast Sept. 21, as rising
domestic demand and the real’s rally boost spending on imports
and overseas travel.  Yields on Brazil’s interbank rate futures contract due in
January 2012, the most traded in Sao Paulo’s BM&F Exchange, fell
six basis points to 11.44 percent by 5 p.m. in New York. Policy
makers reduced their main 2011  inflation  forecast to 4.6 percent
from 5 percent in June, according to the central bank’s
quarterly inflation report released yesterday. The central bank
targets annual inflation of 4.5 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell five basis points to 202,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes.  ‘No Sense’  The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default for
five years fell 2 basis points to 113 basis points, according to
CMA DataVision prices. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face
value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a government or company fail to adhere to its
debt agreements.  The real weakened 0.1 percent to 1.6897.  The central bank has purchased dollars every day since May
7, 2009, swelling its  foreign reserves  to a record $275 billion,
to slow the currency’s advance.  Colombia’s central bank said Sept. 15 it plans to buy a
minimum of $20 million daily for at least four months to stem
the peso’s 13.4 percent surge this year. Japan sold 2.12
trillion yen ($25 billion) in the month through Sept. 28,
according to the Ministry of Finance. The yen rose to a 15-year
high against the dollar on Sept. 15, prompting the Japanese
government to intervene in the foreign-exchange market for the
first time since 2004.  Brazilian central bank President  Henrique Meirelles  said
Sept. 28 the government is considering higher taxes on foreign
investment as other countries adopt policies to weaken their
currencies. Yields on rate futures contracts due in 2021 climbed
11 basis points that day.  The central bank said in an e-mailed response to questions
yesterday that it doesn’t comment on market moves.  “Increasing the inflow tax makes no sense to Brazil,”
said  Jose Francisco de Lima Goncalves , the chief economist at
Banco Fator SA. “Why would you do it if it will raise public
debt?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tal Barak Harif  in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net ;
 Tatiana Bautzer  in Sao Paulo at 
 tbautzer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  