-- Apple Path to No. 1 Goes Through Living Room: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2010-10-01T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/apple-path-to-no-1-goes-through-living-room-rich-jaroslovsky.html
Apple Inc.  is now jostling with
PetroChina Co. to be the world’s second-most-valuable company.
So what will it take to get to No. 1?  There are as many answers to that question as there are
analysts following Apple shares. And there’s still a chasm
between Apple’s valuation of about $260 billion and No. 1 Exxon
Mobil Corp.’s $315 billion.  One key is to sell lots more iPhones, iPads and other
mobile devices. Non-Mac products generated two-thirds of Apple’s
revenue last year; a decade ago, that figure was roughly zero.
And mobile devices have a lot more room to grow: Even in the
U.S., smartphones won’t outnumber basic cell phones until
 sometime late next year , according to Nielsen research.  For Apple to maintain its momentum, though, it has to find
a new world to conquer. And if I’m involved in any part of the
television business, from manufacturing sets to providing
programming, right now I’m getting very, very nervous. Sooner or
later, Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  is going to have to
mount a full-scale assault on the living room. And if history is
any guide, established players beware.  Apple is, of course, notoriously closed-mouthed about its
future plans, and generally pooh-poohs speculation about its TV
ambitions. While it has been nibbling around the edges for four
years with a device called Apple TV -- and released a new
version of it this week -- Jobs continues to refer to it in
public as a  “hobby”  that isn’t central to Apple’s strategy.  Sounds Familiar  If that sounds familiar, it’s because Jobs went through
much the same routine for years regarding wireless phones. At
the Wall Street Journal’s 2005 “All Things D” conference, he
described Apple as reluctant to make a phone because it would
have to go through the “four orifices” -- the major U.S.
carriers -- that tightly controlled the devices, features and
services they were willing to allow onto their networks. Even as
he was downplaying his interest, though, Jobs was plotting to
break the carriers’ grip -- and did so, just two years later,
with the first iPhone.  Unlike the wireless business, the TV market isn’t an
oligarchy; it’s a free-for-all that needs taming. Display
manufacturers like  Sony  and  Panasonic , service providers like
 Comcast  and  DirecTV , set-top box makers like  TiVo , programmers
like the TV networks behind Hulu -- all of them are vying to
become your gateway to video content. Let’s see, I want to watch
a movie; how do I get it? From my cable company? Through my Web-
connected Blu-ray player? Via my Xbox 360? My soon-to-come
 Google -powered  Logitech Revue  set-top box?  Tantalizing Hints  No one, including Apple, expects the new Apple TV to sweep
away those other players. Still, the latest version offers some
tantalizing hints about what may be ahead.  The new device retains the name but almost nothing else
from its predecessor. The previous one was, in essence, a $229
special-purpose computer that attached to your TV and included
an internal hard drive for storing content acquired through
Apple’s iTunes Store. This one costs only $99, has no hard disk
and is a quarter the size. It fits in the palm of your hand and
is all but invisible next to the typical flat-panel TV.  The new Apple TV is built around its ability to stream
high-definition content wirelessly over your home Wi-Fi network,
whether it’s rented movies and TV shows from iTunes and  Netflix
Inc.  that you can order straight from your television, purchased
movies, music and photos that you store on your computer, or
free online content from sources like YouTube.  Resembling Roku  In its approach and simplicity, the Apple TV most resembles
the  Roku Player , which started life as a way to stream Netflix
movies but now provides access to sources that include
 Amazon.com , Major League Baseball and the  Hulu Plus  TV service.
But the Roku, while a fine device, hasn’t revolutionized the
market. If that’s all Apple brings to the table, it won’t
either, even if its product does sport a typically Apple-quality
user interface and experience. For the moment, at least, Apple
TV even has fewer sources of content than Roku; the only TV
networks making current programs available for it so far are
 News Corp. ’s Fox network and ABC, which is owned by  Walt Disney
Co. , whose  largest shareholder  is Steve Jobs.  But slick things are going on behind the scenes with this
device. One is called AirPlay, which after a software update
next month will allow for seamless, wireless streaming of video
from an iPad, iPhone or iPod Touch. That will make it possible
to begin a movie on a mobile device -- on the train, say -- then
walk into your home and have it appear magically on the big
screen in the den.  About Apps  Another is the fact that the Apple TV now runs the same
operating system, which the company calls iOS, as the mobile
devices. Unlike them, the Apple TV doesn’t run applications
written by third-party developers -- now. Then again, the iPhone
didn’t either, when it was introduced. When Apple opened it up a
few months later, it triggered an explosion of apps -- now
200,000 and counting -- that in turn fueled the sales that have
propelled Apple up that list of most-valuable companies.  The new Apple TV may turn out to be a Trojan Horse -- a
deceptively simple gadget that, once in the home, expands its
functionality and reach until it takes control of everything. Or
it may prove to be the precursor of some bigger, more elaborate
foray -- perhaps even an effort to build the long-speculated-
upon Apple television set.  Whatever the answer is, Apple TV is no longer a hobby. It’s
now the opening salvo in the coming living-room war.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Rich Jaroslovsky in San Francisco at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 