-- Harrisburg Mayor to Seek Enrollment in Pennsylvania's Act 47 Aid Program
-- B y   D u n s t a n   M c N i c h o l
-- 2010-10-01T18:19:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/harrisburg-will-seek-enrollment-in-pennsylvania-recovery-program-over-debt.html
Harrisburg Mayor  Linda Thompson 
requested enrollment in Pennsylvania’s recovery and oversight
program for distressed municipalities, saying the capital city
stands “on the precipice of a full-blown financial crisis.”  Harrisburg faces “imminent and inevitable” defaults on
about $44 million in bond payments due by Dec. 15, according to
Thompson’s application for the state’s Act 47 recovery program.
The city of 47,000 will miss payroll within a month, as well as
its payment to the police pension fund due by Dec. 31, unless it
obtains short-term loans, the application says.  Harrisburg officials have been weighing bankruptcy after
the city missed debt payments for a trash-to-energy incinerator.
Under  Act 47  protection,  Pennsylvania  would help the city devise
a recovery plan and give it priority in seeking state aid. The
designation might also bolster the city’s standing in the credit
markets through guarantees of financial support, Thompson said.  “This is a step forward for the city of Harrisburg with
the full knowledge that there are many difficult steps to
come,” Thompson, who took office in January, said in an e-
mailed statement after a press conference with Governor  Edward Rendell  at City Hall.  The application comes two days after City Council members
voted to reject a state-funded financial adviser and to hire
lawyers and other professionals for advice on entering
bankruptcy protection. Thompson and Rendell oppose bankruptcy.  Incinerator Debt  Harrisburg has missed about $8 million in debt-service
payments this year on $282 million of bonds issued in connection
with the incinerator, which was built in the 1960s and is owned
by the independent Harrisburg Authority. The city expects to
default on payments due today and on Nov. 1, Dec. 1 and Dec. 15,
according to the application.  The seat of the sixth most-populous U.S. state’s government
faces lawsuits over the debts from its home county of Dauphin
and  Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp. , a bond insurer.  “While the Thompson administration considers bankruptcy
the option of last resort to restructure the city’s debt, if no
other option is pursued it is likely that the filing of a
municipal debt readjustment plan pursuant to Chapter 9 of the
Bankruptcy Code will be inevitable,” the application says.  Harrisburg, if accepted into the Act 47 program, would join
19 communities, including Pennsylvania’s second-largest city,
Pittsburgh, according to the state  Department of Community and
Economic Development  website.  Distressed Cities  Under state law, the department must hold a hearing on
Harrisburg’s application within two weeks, and determine whether
it qualifies for the program within another 30 days, said Gary
Tuma, a spokesman for Rendell. The governor, a second-term
Democrat who leaves office at year-end, supports Thompson’s Act
47 application, Tuma said.  “I think the mayor has taken a responsible action in
pursuing this course,” Rendell said at the press conference.
“This is a difficult challenge. Everyone has to leave their
agenda at the door and work out something that makes sense to
restore the city’s credibility.”  Amy Richards, a spokeswoman for Dauphin County, declined
comment in an e-mail.  Harrisburg’s action “is a positive first step to develop
a restructuring plan that allows the city and authority to meet
their obligations,” Assured said in a statement.  “I think it’s a really positive development,”  Alan Schankel , managing director of Philadelphia-based Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC, which oversees $13 billion in fixed-income
securities, said in a telephone interview. “It’s the only way
to get above all this political infighting.”  Gloria Martin-Roberts , president of the seven-member City
Council and an opponent of bankruptcy, endorsed Thompson’s move.  “We’ve just had this stalemate for too long,” Martin-
Roberts said in a telephone interview from her home in
Harrisburg today. “We need to move the city forward.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dunstan McNichol  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 dmcnichol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  