-- AT&T `Speed Dating' With App Firms to Gain Edge Over Verizon
-- B y   G r e g   B e n s i n g e r
-- 2010-10-01T20:06:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/at-t-speed-dating-with-app-firms-to-gain-edge-over-verizon.html
AT&T Inc.  is ramping up mobile-
software development at new offices set to open in the U.S. and
Israel to capitalize on the growing market for programs for
 Apple Inc. ’s iPhone and Google Inc.’s Android.  The carrier will announce next week its plan to open
facilities in Palo Alto, California, Tel Aviv and Plano, Texas,
where it’ll advise software firms on mobile-application
development in a project costing “tens of millions of
dollars,” Chief Technology Officer  John Donovan  said in an
interview.  “The three centers provide us with a near-20 hour work
day, so it lends itself very well to agile kinds of
development,” Donovan said.  AT&T, the second-largest U.S. mobile carrier, plans to tap
the market for mobile software by offering business and consumer
apps faster than rivals  Verizon Wireless  and  Sprint Nextel Corp. 
Consumers will spend $6.2 billion on apps worldwide this year,
up from about $4.2 billion in 2009, according to Gartner Inc.  Donovan said he plans to meet with as many as 400 software
firms a year to hear 8-to-10 minute pitches, a process he calls
“speed dating.” If AT&T likes an app idea, the carrier may
help the firm develop it and offer the program on its network
first.  “Why would we do it? Because we’re going to end up with
something to market faster than our competitors,” Donovan said.
He said  AT&T  expects to introduce about 30 apps annually through
collaboration at the new facilities, where the Dallas-based
company will employ as many as 36 people combined.  AT&T will profit by sharing revenue from the apps it helps
develop, such as games, ringtones or business programs, he said.  Driving Sales  “Only recently have mobile apps started to take hold, so
this is a pretty new market,” said  Maribel Lopez , founder of
San Francisco-based Lopez Research, which tracks the mobile
industry. “Carriers now realize that apps are driving device
sales as much as the devices themselves can.”  Verizon Wireless, the largest U.S. mobile carrier, and
Sprint, the No. 3, host developer conferences regularly and also
have websites where software companies can exchange app ideas.  Sprint will open an office in Burlingame, California, this
month for so-called machine-to-machine developers, said Kristin
Wallace, a spokeswoman for the carrier. Verizon Wireless is
considering adding a facility for app development in the San
Francisco area, spokeswoman  Debra Lewis  said.  Venture Partners  AT&T is partnering with venture-capital firms Sequoia
Capital and  Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers , early backers of
Google, for its app-development venture. The firms will help AT&T
identify promising application developers and may invest in
companies that emerge through the process. AT&T won’t take
equity stakes in any of the companies, Donovan said.  “If AT&T expressed an interest in a company, we’d probably
lean in further on that opportunity,”  Jim Goetz , a partner with
Menlo Park, California-based Sequoia, said in an interview.  Matt Murphy , who manages the $200 million Kleiner Perkins
iFund that invests in iPhone app firms, said AT&T’s plan to open
the Palo Alto office will help speed up the development process.  “It’s invaluable to be able to go up there on a moment’s
notice,” he said in an interview.  Having the backing of AT&T can ensure smaller firms
succeed, said Michael Mullany, a vice president at  Sencha Inc. ,
a Palo Alto-based software company that’s working with AT&T on
app development.  “This lowers the bar for more startups,” he said in an
interview.  AT&T rose 21 cents to $28.81 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite  trading . The shares have added 2.8 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Bensinger  in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  