-- Latin America Favored Over China in Survey of U.S. Companies, HSBC Says
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2010-10-01T15:22:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/latin-america-favored-over-china-in-survey-of-u-s-companies-hsbc-says.html
Lawmakers may have spent this week
in Washington debating commerce with China. U.S. importers and
exporters in a survey are increasingly looking to Latin America
for commercial opportunities.  Economic growth in Brazil and other South American nations
has made the region the most promising for trade in the next six
months, according to a report by  HSBC Holdings Plc , Europe’s
largest bank. The bank surveyed more than 5,000 companies,
including 300 in the U.S.  In Latin America, “domestic consumption is up, and those
countries export a great deal,” William Nowicki, executive vice
president at HSBC in New York, said in an interview. “And trade
remains one of the key drivers of economic growth globally.”  The HSBC third trade-confidence survey released this week
shows 30 percent of the U.S. businesses surveyed think Latin
America offers the best opportunity for growth over the next six
months, 25 percent identified China and 15 percent said Canada.  Latin America’s regional economy is estimated to expand 4.8
percent this year after a drop of 1.8 percent in 2009, the
International Monetary Fund forecast in July. Brazil’s economy
is predicted to grow 7.1 percent and Mexico’s 4.5 percent.  Brazil said it is seeking to tighten commercial ties with
the U.S., in part to counter expanding trade in raw materials
with China, which replaced the U.S. as its top trading partner.  “What we are trying to do is relaunch the relationship in
a positive way,”  Welber Barral , secretary for international
trade in Brazil, said in an interview in Washington. “Trade
with the U.S. is extremely important to us.”  To be sure, U.S. trade with Brazil is about one-tenth the
size of trade with China.  China’s Economy  China’s economy is forecast to grow faster than 10 percent
this year. Total trade with China was $242 billion in the first
seven months of 2010, compared with $23.5 billion for Brazil,
according to U.S. Commerce Department data.  The House of Representatives on Sept. 29 passed legislation
aimed at prodding China to raise the value of its currency,
which lawmakers say give Chinese exporters an unfair advantage
over foreign competitors.  “We are already in a trade war with China,” said
Representative  Linda Sanchez , a California Democrat. “But China
is shooting cannons and we are shooting BB guns.”  China remains an attractive market for U.S. companies,
according to the HSBC telephone survey, conducted from July to
September. Among U.S. companies, 76 percent now trade with China
while 74 percent trade with Latin America. Canada is a partner
for 86 percent of U.S. companies surveyed.  The survey included more than 5,000 businesses in 17
countries worldwide, and many are most bullish about the
prospects of increased exports to the U.S. Businesses in Canada,
China, Hong Kong, India and Mexico all included the U.S. among
the top three most-promising regions for trade growth in the
next six months, HSBC said in its release.  “Global trade is a key barometer and driver of economic
growth,” Nowicki said. “Exporters and importers remain
confident about trade prospects, albeit slightly less bullish
than they were six months ago.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  