-- Mauritius's Central Bank Governor Bheenick Says He Won't Devalue the Rupee
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2010-10-01T09:58:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/mauritius-s-central-bank-governor-bheenick-says-won-t-devalue-the-rupee.html
Rundheersing Bheenick , the central
bank governor of Mauritius, said the country won’t devalue its
currency, the rupee, to cope with weaker demand for exports from
Europe.  Devaluing the rupee would add to inflation, while only
benefiting a small group of exporters, Bheenick said in the
transcript of an interview published in L’Express newspaper
today.  The Indian Ocean island country has cut growth forecasts
for this year and warned of slower expansion in 2011 on
forecasts of reduced export and tourism income because of the
weaker euro. Europe is Mauritius’s main trading partner and the
source of two-thirds of its tourists, figures from the
statistics office show. The rupee has strengthened about 5
percent against the euro this year.  “Devaluation is certainly not the solution to the euro
crisis as it will lead to high inflation rates, problems of
balance of payments and a lack of rigor in economic
management,” Bheenick said.  Exporters should use the “exceptional” one percentage
point interest rate cut announced this week to restructure their
operations and re-examine their products and prices rather than
expect a devaluation, he said.  The Bank of Mauritius reduced the benchmark repo rate to
4.75 percent on Sept. 27 to try to arrest slowing growth. The
central statistics office yesterday cut the growth forecast for
this year to 4.1 percent from 4.2 percent, the second reduction
in two months.  Trade Deficit  While inflation is expected to accelerate, unemployment is
rising and without new investment economic activity will
“slacken drastically, which will lead to a steep fall off in
economic growth” in the first quarter of next year, Bheenick
said. Banks must start lending more instead of putting their
money into Treasury bills, he said.  A currency devaluation will boost import costs and further
widen the trade deficit, rather than spurring exports because
demand from the Euro zone countries is weak, Bheenick said.  “This year we have already faced a balance of trade
deficit which is very high,” he said. “We cannot allow that to
continue.”  Mauritius imports double what it exports, according to the
statistics agency. The trade deficit stood at 31.5 billion
rupees ($1.04 billion) for the first half of 2010, with imports
of 62.8 billion rupees and exports of 31.3 billion rupees, the
agency said on Aug. 31.  “There is nothing exceptional if a currency appreciates,”
Bheenick said. “This happens in every country. And I will
resist all attempts to come up with measures to suit some to the
detriment of all,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kamlesh Bhuckory  in Port Louis at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 