-- Aussie Dollar’s Gain a ‘Headwind’ for Alumina, Iluka, Panoramic
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2010-10-01T03:04:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/aussie-dollar-s-gain-a-headwind-for-alumina-iluka-panoramic.html
The Australian dollar’s surge toward
parity with its U.S. counterpart is trimming the benefits of
rising commodity prices for mining companies such as  Alumina
Ltd. ,  Macarthur Coal Ltd.  and Panoramic Resources Ltd.  The rise is “concerning and unfortunate,” said  Peter Harold , managing director of Perth-based nickel producer
 Panoramic , who’s bought options to protect about 50 percent of
metal sales until December. “The nickel price is probably
higher than we would have expected at this time, but also the
currency is probably stronger than we would have anticipated.”  The Australian dollar, known as the Aussie, was the second-
best performer against the greenback last quarter, gaining 15
percent, on speculation the U.S. Federal Reserve will expand
stimulus measures to support growth. The London Metal Exchange
LMEX Index climbed 23 percent in the past quarter.  Aussie dollar strength is “a headwind” in particular for
 Alumina Ltd. , partner in the world’s biggest producer of the
material used to make aluminum, and mineral sands producer  Iluka
Resources Ltd. , said  Glyn Lawcock , an analyst at UBS Securities
Australia Ltd. “One company that is going to really feel the
pain is Alumina because they’ll get the Brazilian real strength
and the Aussie dollar strength, and the aluminum price hasn’t
really appreciated that much.”  Australia’s dollar reached 97.34 U.S. cents yesterday, the
most since July 2008. The currency also reached parity with the
Canadian dollar this week, the first time in six years, buoyed
by growth prospects in China and economist forecasts that the
Reserve Bank of Australia would raise the benchmark interest
rate on Oct. 5.  Coal Producers  Coal producers such as Macarthur, the world’s largest
supplier of pulverized coal used by steelmakers, and  Gloucester
Coal Ltd.  would all “experience some impact,” said  Colin McLelland , an analyst at Investec Bank Australia Ltd. in Sydney.
“A lot of these guys managed to lock in at least some hedging.
They tend to hedge a proportion of their confirmed contracts.”  Macarthur has a policy of placing dollar hedges covering 85
percent of contracted sales, according to a June 30
presentation. Still, coal prices moving to a quarterly
settlement from an annual price “obviously make hedging
harder,” said McLelland.  The currency may reach parity with its U.S. counterpart for
the first time by the end of the year as the Fed reintroduces
large-scale purchase of debt, and as policy makers bolster
demand in China, Australia’s largest trading partner, BNP
Paribas said in a report Sept. 23.  Metal Price Gains  To be sure, the gains in metals such as copper has
countered the dollar’s advance. Copper futures in London traded
at a 26-month high of $8,065 a metric ton this week.  “What we tend to see over time is a rising Australian
dollar offset by the corresponding increasing U.S. dollar copper
price - indeed this is currently at high levels and has more
than offset the increase in the Australian dollar over the last
few months,” said  Andrew Coles , chief financial officer of OZ
Minerals Ltd.  BHP Billiton Ltd. ,  Rio Tinto Group  and  Xstrata Plc , which
get a greater share of their earnings outside Australia, won’t
feel as much of an impact from the change in currency, though it
will make overseas-funded mergers and acquisitions more
expensive, said ANZ Banking Group Ltd. Senior Commodity
Strategist Mark Pervan.  “Corporate activity might come off but if you look at
Australia, it’s pretty heavily consolidated already,” said  Mark Pervan , senior commodity strategist, said in a phone interview
from Melbourne. “The North Americans have been very active
buyers already, as have the Chinese and Asian buyers in the last
10 years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  