-- Futures Sale Spurred May 6 Panic as Traders Lost Faith in Data
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2010-10-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/automatic-trade-of-futures-drove-may-6-stock-crash-report-says.html
Declines in index futures convinced
traders a “cataclysmic event” was pushing down equities on May
6, leading them to abandon the market and triggering the biggest
crash in a quarter century, federal regulators found.  A trader’s routine attempt to hedge losses helped set off a
chain of events that sent the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  down
as much as 998.50 points, according to a 104-page report
released yesterday. Two people with knowledge of the findings by
the Securities and Exchange Commission and Commodity Futures
Trading Commission identified the firm as Waddell & Reed
Financial Inc., an  Overland Park , Kansas-based mutual-fund
company with about $68 billion in assets.  Five months after the plunge spurred calls in Congress for
an overhaul of U.S. equities trading, yesterday’s report stopped
short of giving fresh prescriptions for how to prevent another
crash from happening. Instead, regulators honed their original
findings to focus on how a single trade in the futures market
bled into stocks, overwhelming human beings and computers alike
before order was restored minutes later.  “Whether the liquidity providers were there or not, when
you get this kind of snowball panic, it’s difficult to stop,”
said Walter “Bucky” Hellwig, a Birmingham, Alabama-based
senior vice president at BB&T Wealth Management, which oversees
$17 billion. “That’s why the SEC is putting in some of these
curbs and stops.”  Circuit Breakers  The crash that erased $862 billion from the value of U.S.
equities in less than 20 minutes prompted exchanges to implement
circuit breakers that pause trading in more than 1,300
securities during periods of volatility. Uniform policies for
canceling trades and eliminating stub quotes, or bids and offers
at prices far away from the stock’s last sale, have also been
proposed or adopted.  The report focused on the impact of tumbling futures on
investor behavior. Market-making firms, concerned the data they
were seeing was wrong or incomplete, reduced buying, while
companies specializing in exchange-traded funds pulled out.
Regulators placed less emphasis on the fragmented structure of
U.S. equity exchanges, concluding high-frequency firms that have
supplanted market makers as the main facilitators of trading on
electronic venues acted like other participants after the
selloff began.  According to yesterday’s document, a mutual-fund firm that
wasn’t named sold 75,000 contracts on the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index known as E-mini futures -- worth about $4.1 billion --
using a computer program called an algorithm, which gave no
regard to prices or the speed of its transactions. The seller
was Waddell & Reed, two people familiar with the matter said.  ‘Absorbed Easily’  “We believe we were one of 250 firms engaging in E-mini
trading during the period of the market selloff,” Waddell &
Reed said in a statement in May. “We believe that trades of the
size we initiated normally are absorbed easily in the market.”  Roger Hoadley, a spokesman for the company, said the
statement was “still accurate and relevant.”  Lawmakers have asked if high-frequency firms that dominate
electronic trading destabilized the market by withdrawing their
liquidity when they were needed most. SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro 
said in September that regulators should examine increasing
obligations for market makers that provide orders to buy and
sell stocks.  Yesterday’s report “suggests our fragmented market system
is even more vulnerable than we realized,” Senator Charles A. Schumer, a Democrat from  New York , said in a statement. “When
one trade can wreak this much havoc, federal regulators need to
seriously consider whether the costs of high-frequency trading
outweigh the benefits. The SEC should seriously consider ways to
slow things down when markets get volatile.”  Trading Algorithm  The biggest impact of high-frequency traders in the selloff
came when the mutual fund began its initial sales of E-mini
futures, the report said. Its trades were accompanied by a
flurry of volume -- almost 140,000 contracts --among high-speed
firms. The increased trading caused the firm’s chosen algorithm,
programmed to align its orders with volume in the market, to
sell more, the report said.  “Net holdings of HFTs fluctuated around zero so rapidly
that they rarely held more than 3,000 contracts long or short on
that day,” the report said. “Moreover, compared to the three
days prior to May 6, there was an unusually high level of ‘hot
potato’ trading volume -- due to repeated buying and selling of
contracts -- among the HFTs,” it said. Between 2:45:13 p.m. and
2:45:27 p.m. New York time, “HFTs traded over 27,000 contracts,
which accounted for about 49 percent of the total trading
volume, while buying only about 200 additional contracts net.”  Looking for Errors  As selling increased, some high-speed trading firms began
assessing whether the rapid price moves were the result of
erroneous data and how their systems were keeping up with the
high volume of data, according to the report. They also sought
to determine what impact the moves had on their risk and
position limits and their profitability, and how the prospect of
trades being canceled by exchanges would affect their holdings.  “A number of participants reported that because prices
simultaneously fell across many types of securities, they feared
the occurrence of a cataclysmic event of which they were not yet
aware, and that their strategies were not designed to handle,”
the report said. Some of these firms widened their quote
spreads, or the difference between the price they were willing
to pay for a security and the level at which they would sell.
Others pared back the liquidity they were providing. “A
significant number withdrew completely from the markets,” the
report said.  CME Statement    CME Group Inc ., The Chicago-based owner of the world’s
biggest futures market, disputed the role of the 75,000-contract
trade in driving the market plunge. E-minis are a CME product.
The trade represented 1.3 percent of total volume on May 6, and
less than 9 percent of transactions at the time of execution,
CME said in a statement.  “These hedging orders were entered in relatively small
quantities and in a manner designed to dynamically adapt to
market liquidity by participating in a target percentage of 9
percent of the volume executed in the market,” CME said. “As a
result of the significant volumes traded in the market, the
hedge was completed in approximately 20 minutes, with more than
half of the participant’s volume executed as the market rallied
-- not as the market declined.”  ‘No. 1 Concern’  The SEC and CFTC said questions about the accuracy of the
data they were receiving were the “No. 1 concern” of trading
firms as the crash gained momentum. The rapid drop in the E-mini
contract and among individual stocks triggered “data-integrity
pauses” in the automated systems they use to trade, the study
found. The programs look for unusually large price moves, and it
didn’t matter that the swings they were observing were real.  The crash “was not caused by some automated trading
strategy gone wild,”  Adam Sussman , director of research at New
York-based Tabb Group LLC, wrote in a report sent to clients
yesterday. “In fact, it would be reasonable to conclude that it
was execution algorithms -- not high-frequency trading outfits -
- that played a larger role as triggers.”  Because of the speed with which the algorithm was selling,
market makers and other traders that help facilitate trading
withdrew from the market or increased the spreads between their
bid and offer prices, according to the SEC-CFTC report. High-
frequency firms, “who normally both provide and take liquidity
as part of their strategies, traded proportionally more as
volume increased, and overall were net sellers in the rapidly
declining broad market along with most other participants,”
regulators said.  Five Hours  Only two sell programs in  E-mini futures  amounting to at
least 75,000 contracts had occurred in the 12 months before May
6, including one by the same firm, the report said. In that
instance, it took the trader more than five hours to execute
that many contracts.  Thirteen pages of the report examined the role of high-
frequency traders in the evaporation of buy and sell orders
following Waddell & Reed’s sale. While the computerized firms
have been criticized in Congress and the press for being the
first to pull out when losses started to snowball, regulators
said that wasn’t always the case. The report cautioned against
assuming all high-frequency firms use the same strategies,
saying some are pure market makers, some proprietary traders,
and some hybrids of both.  Stepping Away  The report said 6 of the 12 biggest high-frequency firms on  Nasdaq  and off-exchange venues scaled back after indexes hit
their lows of the day, including 2 that stopped trading for the
rest of the day. That compares with traditional market-making
firms, which regulators said widened bid-ask spreads, reduced
the number of shares provided or paused trading after price
swings set off risk limits. Among traders specializing in ETFs,
a “large majority” paused market making “for considerable
periods” after volatility increased, according to the report.  “If you looked at the provision of the liquidity, there
were a number of high-frequency traders that stood in the
market,” said Kevin Cronin, the Atlanta-based global head of
equity trading for Invesco Ltd., which has $573.8 billion in
assets. “They stuck around, and that’s one of the things that
kind of gets missed in this whole discussion.”  Schapiro is trying to protect investors in a fragmented
U.S. stock market while maintaining liquidity -- the ease with
which investors can buy and sell shares -- on venues dominated
by firms that profit from computerized trading.  Shifting to Humans  While the report stressed the need to coordinate rules
among equity venues in the U.S., it found that a system to slow
down trading unique to the New York Stock Exchange didn’t have a
direct impact on participants’ ability to buy and sell. More
than 1,000 securities triggered liquidity replenishment points -
- an NYSE system that switches from electronic trading to
automated auctions overseen by humans -- that lasted more than 1
second in the half hour starting at 2:30 p.m. on May 6, the
report said. That compared with the daily average of 20 to 30.  Firms told regulators that their systems automatically
adjust for slow quotes on the  NYSE Euronext  venue by routing to
other exchanges. The agencies also noted that since 80 percent
of the 326 securities with broken trades weren’t listed on NYSE,
it’s unlikely that buy and sell orders “trapped” on the Big
Board would have mitigated the selloff.  “Participants did not report they had difficulty routing
or felt their orders were ‘trapped’ as a result of LRP events,”
the study said. “However, a number of market participants told
us that the fact so many LRPs were being triggered further
underscored the severity of market conditions as they were
unfolding, and that this additional ‘evidence’ played into their
decisions to reduce liquidity, pause trading, or withdraw from
the market.”  ‘Self-Help’  Declarations of “self-help” against NYSE Arca, which
allow exchanges to ignore the best prices on that venue, by
Nasdaq Stock Market and Bats Exchange didn’t exacerbate trading
problems on May 6, the report found. Self-help is a mechanism
exchanges use when a venue doesn’t respond to messages for 1
second to avoid sending orders to a market that might be
experiencing delays.  NYSE Euronext, which owns NYSE Arca, and  Nasdaq OMX Group
Inc . are based in New York. Bats Global Markets has its
headquarters in  Kansas City ,  Missouri .  The circuit breakers that pause securities when they rise
or fall at least 10 percent within 5 minutes and a new order-
cancellation process that applies to all stock venues have
helped safeguard markets,  Bart Chilton , a CFTC commissioner,
said in an interview yesterday on Bloomberg Television.  ‘Band-Aid Fixes’  “We’re safer today than we were on May 6,” he said. “We
need to harmonize our rules and regulations. These are Band-Aid
fixes.”  About $61 billion has been withdrawn from U.S. stock mutual
funds since the beginning of May, the most during any five-month
period since 2008, according to  data  compiled by the  Investment
Company Institute , a Washington-based trade group. At the same
time, about $116 billion was stashed in bond funds.  “Years down the line, this may happen again -- probably
will,” said  Larry Peruzzi , senior equity trader at Cabrera
Capital Markets Inc. in  Boston . “At least what we would learn
is how do we protect the investor -- whether the circuit
breakers, clear-defined rules. It’s a great first step in
regaining the investor confidence.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 