-- Barclays Chases Deutsche Bank's European High-Yield Crown
-- B y   K a t e   H a y w o o d
-- 2010-10-01T06:59:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/barclays-chases-deutsche-bank-s-european-high-yield-bond-crown.html
Barclays Plc ’s acquisition of parts
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. has helped catapult its
investment banking unit to third place in underwriting bonds for
Europe’s riskiest companies, from 15th a year ago.  Barclays Capital more than doubled its share of high-yield
issuance to 8.2 percent in the first three quarters of this
year, from 2.9 percent for the same period in 2009, ranking
behind  Deutsche Bank AG  and  Credit Suisse Group AG , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The London-based bank underwrote $3
billion of debt, up from $534 million a year ago, data show.  Barclays Capital boosted its European high-yield and
leveraged finance unit with 25 hires across syndicate, sales,
trading, and research since buying Lehman’s North American
operations in 2008, according to  Joe McGrath , head of global
leveraged finance. Europe’s junk-rated companies issued 27.4
billion euros ($37.5 billion) of bonds this year, compared with
13.6 billion euros in the same period of 2009, Bloomberg data
show. The data exclude self-led deals and emerging markets.  “The Lehman Brothers acquisition gave us the opportunity
to accelerate and shift up our strategy globally within
leveraged finance,” New York-based McGrath said. “There are
fewer banks, lending less and that’s what’s driving many
European corporates to explore the public debt markets.”  Top Underwriter  Deutsche Bank, the biggest German lender headed by Chairman
 Joseph Ackermann , retained its position as the top underwriter
of junk debt in the region, helping sell 25 issues totaling $4.3
billion, Bloomberg data show. Zurich-based Credit Suisse helped
manage 14 offerings for $3.2 billion of sales, moving from fifth
place last year.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , which needed the world’s
largest bank bailout during the credit crisis, dropped from
third place to sixth with 15 issues of $2 billion, while New
York-based  Citigroup Inc.  fell to seventh from second last year,
with a 5.4 percent share of the market.  High-yield bonds sold by European companies returned 10.87
percent on average this year, compared with 6.7 percent for
investment-grade bonds, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show.
Junk debt is ranked lower than Baa3 at Moody’s Investors Service
and BBB- at Standard & Poor’s.  Sub-investment grade companies in the region have more than
$150 billion of debt maturing through 2013, according to S&P.
Borrowers are turning to the high-yield market to take advantage
of low borrowing costs and to make up for a slowdown in bank
lending, McGrath said.  Capital Rules  Banks are providing a smaller share of loans as capital
rules designed to prevent a repeat of the worst financial crisis
in decades make it more expensive to lend to riskier borrowers.
The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision on Sept. 12 raised
the cost of the capital lenders are required to set aside
against the loans.  The extra yield that investors demand to hold European
high-yield bonds rather than government debt is at 601 basis
points, compared with 842 basis points in June following the
sovereign debt crisis and down from a peak of 2,242 basis points
in 2009, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.  Barclays arranged 20 high-yield issues this year, according
to Bloomberg data, compared with just two issues during the same
period last year. It helped underwrite 150 million-euros of
five-year notes for  DSG International Plc , Britain’s largest
electronics retails, in July as well as  100 million euros  of
bonds for Codere Finance Luxembourg SA, the financing unit of
Codere SA, a Spanish operator of bingo clubs and casinos.  “Barclays has such a strong infrastructure for fixed
income as a whole, so there is no reason why it shouldn’t have
been able to improve on its relative weakness in European high-
yield,” said  Andrew Lim , a financial analyst at Matrix
Corporate Capital LLP in London, who has a “sell”
recommendation on Barclays Plc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kate Haywood  in London at 
 khaywood@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  