-- Barclays ‘Quant’ Index Fuels Computer-Run Note Growth
-- B y   S a r f r a z   T h i n d
-- 2010-10-04T09:23:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/barclays-quant-index-fuels-growth-in-computer-driven-notes.html
(Corrects job title in fourth paragraph of Oct. 1 story.)  Barclays Capital plans to sell notes
based on a proprietary index that allocates investments
according to a computer model, as the number of so-called
quantitative benchmarks grows.  The Multi-Alpha Equal Risk Allocation  Index , or Era, is the
second quantitative index released by Barclays in the past
month, joining a growing list of products based on strategies
where mathematical models are used to determine where to
allocate assets.  Era uses an algorithm developed by the London-based bank to
measure historical volatility and determine how to invest across
four asset classes including stocks, commodities, interest rates
and currencies, according to Barclays Capital.  Barclays’s  Astro , an equity trading strategy started in
September, will be linked to “hundreds of millions” of dollars
of notes, said  Laurence Black , a director in the bank’s
quantitative indexes and strategies team. Astro uses a formula
based on so-called mean reversion, the theory that equity prices
revert to an average level, to allocate investment between cash
and equities.  Other banks have offered similar deals. Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc said in August it expects to raise 750
million pounds ($1.2 billion) by year-end from the fifth series
of its Autopilot and Navigator index-based notes. Autopilot
invests in stocks, commodities and property when prices rise,
and U.K. inflation-linked assets when markets fall. Navigator
uses moving averages to determine when to buy or sell U.K.
stocks.  Stoxx Ltd., the Zurich-based equity index provider, started
an equity benchmark in September that aims to keep volatility at
20 percent by allocating assets to stocks when price swings
moderate, and more to money rates as fluctuations increase.  Mixed Performance  “Banks issue a lot of products because their cost of
production is quite low and they are often competing with other
products, without necessarily adding much value,” said  Paul Thind , head of structured solutions and ETFs at C-Quadrat, the
Vienna-based fund manager that last month started exchange-
traded funds on two quantitative indexes targeting returns as
high as 20 percent.  The performance of quantitative indexes has been mixed this
year. Barclays Capital’s Combats 6 commodity  index  has dropped
0.5 percent, its  QBES  U.S. large cap equity index has fallen 3.4
percent, while the bank’s Atlantic  Exceed , a fixed-income index,
increased 0.8 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Meantime, RBS’s Autopilot  index  has fallen 11.3 percent,
and  Navigator  has declined 8.7 percent.  Careful Study  “These indices have to be really carefully studied,” said
 Pierre-Yves Breton , co-head of structured product sales and
structuring for Switzerland at Tradition Securities and Futures
OTC. “The investor has to compare the different indices offered
by the different banks, and especially in terms of structuring
and management fees.”  Quantitative strategies have often been dubbed black boxes
because their creators try to keep secret the models dictating
investment decisions.  Barclays says its quantitative indexes are rather designed
to be “extremely transparent for our clients,” said  Jose Mazoy , a director of index, portfolio and risk solutions at the
bank.  “We try and keep these as glass boxes, although we also
try and ensure that we don’t distribute the index rules too
widely,” Mazoy said. “All the index documentation is available
to investors.”  By making quantitative strategies more transparent, banks
run the risk of diluting performance as successful models are
copied by competing issuers, said  Stuart Theakston , head of
research at Glc Ltd. a London-based hedge fund.  “It’s hard to sell stuff that’s not simple, but it’s very
easy for people to replicate something too simple,” Theakston
said. “Any strategy that works will attract money, people will
copy it and the performance will decay over time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarfraz Thind  in London at 
 Sthind3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  