-- BayernLB's MKB Hungarian Unit to Receive $424 Million in Capital Support
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2010-10-01T08:13:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/bayernlb-s-mkb-hungarian-unit-to-receive-424-million-in-capital-support.html
Bayerische Landesbank , Germany’s
second-biggest state-owned lender, said its Hungarian  MKB Bank 
subsidiary will receive capital aid of about 310 million euros
($424 million).  “MKB will get a capital increase of 173 million euros as
well as 137 million euros in capital-relief measures such as the
transfer of loans to BayernLB’s own book,”  Matthias Luecke , a
spokesman at the Munich-based lender, said today. “This will be
done within existing credit lines, so there won’t be an impact
on BayernLB’s capitalization.”  BayernLB needed 10 billion euros in new capital and a 4.8
billion-euro risk shield for its portfolio of asset-backed
securities from the German state of Bavaria, which now owns 95.8
percent of the bank. Chief Executive Officer  Gerd Haeusler  has
said he’s seeking to improve the bank’s profitability to attract
new owners.  MKB needs 300 million euros to 400 million euros in fresh
capital to cover a loss of 350 million euros forecast for this
year, German newspaper  Sueddeutsche Zeitung  reported earlier,
citing unidentified finance officials.  Haeusler said in April that a possible sale of MKB is being
discussed with the  European Commission . The EU’s competition
authority in Brussels is investigating government bailouts,
including BaynernLB’s, on concern the aid will give banks an
unfair advantage in the future.  Bawag PSK Bank, the Austrian bank controlled by Cerberus
Capital Management LP, said earlier this week that it will
participate in a capital increase at MKB in Hungary. Bawag owns
a 10 percent stake in MKB and BayernLB owns the remainder.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Oliver Suess  in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  