-- Potash Suit to Stop Takeover Should Be Thrown Out, BHP Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s
-- 2010-10-02T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/bhp-billiton-asks-court-to-throw-out-potash-takeover-lawsuit.html
Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. ’s
lawsuit seeking to block a $40 billion hostile  takeover  by  BHP
Billiton Ltd.  should be thrown out, the Australian company told
a U.S. judge.  The lawsuit accusing BHP executives of making misleading
statements to drive down Potash’s stock is without merit and
should be dismissed, lawyers for Melbourne-based BHP said in a
filing yesterday in a federal court in Chicago.  Potash “has failed to identify any misleading statement or
material omission by defendants, let alone meeting its burden of
pleading particularized facts” showing an intent to deceive,
BHP said in its filing.  The world’s largest maker of fertilizer, Saskatoon-based
 Potash  filed the suit on Sept. 22, one month after BHP announced
its intent to acquire the company for $130 a share.  Potash said in its complaint that it filed the case in
Chicago because BHP Chief Executive Officer  Marius Kloppers 
conveyed the buyout offer to Potash CEO  Bill Doyle  within the
court’s jurisdiction.  Potash, in separately filed papers, asked U.S. District
Judge  David H. Coar  on Sept. 22 to issue an order blocking BHP
from moving forward on bid until it issues “corrective”
disclosures and gives Potash shareholders 60 days to review
them.  Jamie Moser , an outside spokeswoman for Potash, declined to
comment on yesterday’s filing.  “The target company has every right to dispute the
relevant (or not so relevant) facts with the bidder,” BHP’s
attorneys said in its filing. “But in the end, once both sides’
positions are in the public domain, it is up to the
shareholders, rather than the court, to resolve the dispute.”  The case is Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. v. BHP
Billiton Ltd., 10-cv-06024, in the U.S. District Court for the
Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 