-- Biggest Rally Since 2002 Drives Provinces, Munis to Bonds: Canada Credit
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-10-01T04:00:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/biggest-rally-since-02-drives-provinces-to-bonds-canada-credit.html
Bond sales by Canadian provinces
surged in the third quarter to the highest in almost a decade as
borrowers took advantage of record-low interest rates and steady
investor appetite to raise funds.  Provincial and municipal borrowers sold C$25.9 billion
($25.2 billion) in 58 deals since June 30, the most since
Bloomberg began tracking the data in 1999, except for the second
quarter last year. Lower  interest rates  from a year ago
translated into annual savings of about C$54 million for
borrowers and taxpayers. Investors stand to make the most this
year since 2002.  As provincial bond sales approach record levels, relative
yields are tightening, indicating the increase in supply isn’t
driving away investors. That’s a good sign for Canada’s credit
markets, according to  Trevor Thom , director of debt capital
markets at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit.  “Even with this backdrop of declining interest rates and
continued volatility in equity markets, we’ve managed to have
near-record issuance over a period where provincial spreads have
actually narrowed,” Thom said by phone from Toronto. “This
speaks volumes to how comfortable domestic investors are with
the fiscal resiliency of the provinces.”  Ontario 10-year spreads narrowed between 5 and 7 basis
points since June 30, and 30-year spreads are 3 to 5 basis
points tighter, Thom said. The Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Canadian Provincials & Municipals Index returned 3.7 percent,
the most since the final quarter of 2008.  ‘Big Deficits’  Provincial governments have reported higher deficits
because of the recession last year and on stimulus spending to
pull out of the slump, according to  Michael Gregory , senior
economist at Bank of Montreal’s BMO Capital Markets unit.  “With big deficits, you’ve got to do a lot of financing,”
Gregory said by phone from Toronto. “Now you’ve got very low
interest rates, which makes a tremendous incentive to do as much
of that as you possibly can, as soon as you can.”  Yields on Merrill’s provincial index, which tracks 399
bonds with C$461 billion outstanding, dropped to 2.99 percent
yesterday, from 3.27 percent on June 30. They reached 2.93
percent on Aug. 30, the lowest on a monthly closing basis since
index data begins in 1992.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to hold the debt of Canada’s companies instead of its
federal government ended yesterday at 145 basis points. The
spread has tightened 4 basis points, or 0.04 percentage point,
in September and the same amount since June 30. Yields fell to
3.662 percent, from 3.953 percent at the end of June.  Beer Bonds  Bank of Nova Scotia sold $1.25 billion of 2.05 percent U.S.
dollar bonds due in October 2015. The debt priced to yield 83
basis points over Treasuries.  Lloyds TSB Bank, a unit of Lloyds Banking Group Plc, issued
C$350 million of 4.57 percent bonds maturing in October 2015.
The so-called Maple bonds -- debt issued by foreign companies in
Canadian dollars and named after the leaf on the Canadian flag -
- priced to yield 260 basis points over government benchmarks.  Molson Coors International LP , the Denver-based brewer,
sold C$500 million in 3.95 percent bonds maturing in October
2017. Caisse Centrale Desjardins sold C$600 million in 3.5
percent bonds maturing the same month, priced to yield 121.2
basis points over governments.  In the provincial bond market, relative yields tightened to
58 basis points yesterday, from 60 basis points on Aug. 31 and
64 basis points on June 30, the Merrill data show. Bonds in the
index have returned 7.9 percent so far this year, on track for
the best annual performance since the 9.9 percent gains in 2002.  Global, U.S. Returns  Canadian government bonds returned 0.3 percent in September,
after reinvesting interest, according to another Merrill Lynch
index. U.S. Treasuries were flat last month through Sept. 29,
compared with a 0.3 percent drop for government bonds globally.  Ontario, British Columbia and other province have been
able to borrow at interest rates near all-time lows to close
shortfalls from record budget deficits for the fiscal year that
ended in March. Manitoba, New Brunswick and Saskatchewan were
also among provinces that borrowed in the period ended Sept. 30,
along with Ontario cities Toronto and Ottawa, and the Trois-
Rivieres in Quebec.  Canada Housing Trust, which raises money to purchase
mortgage securities from lenders, accounted for C$9.8 billion of
the debt sales in the period. Other borrowers included Canada
Post Corp. and Hydro-Quebec.  Opportunity  “All-time historical lows in longer-term yields have
presented an opportunity,”  Mark Chandler , head of Canadian
fixed-income and currency strategy at  Royal Bank of Canada , said
by phone from Toronto.  Canadian governments borrowed C$72.1 billion in the first
three quarters of this year, down 5.3 percent from the C$76.1
billion in the same period a year ago. Borrowing accelerated
from the first quarter, when C$20.6 billion in government debt
was issued.  Demand for provincial bonds has been “pretty solid,”
according to BMO Capital’s Gregory.  “It’s been lots of supply because of big deficits, but
lots of demand because of the particular traction of the
provincial bonds,” Gregory said.  Canadian provinces have completed more than two-thirds of
their financings for the year, according to Gregory.  Once in a Lifetime  “Issuance may cool a little bit, but the attraction will
probably be even lower yields, perhaps the lowest yields you’ve
ever seen in your lifetime,” Gregory said. That “will be a
very compelling case for provinces to test the waters.”  Canadian corporate debt sales rose by a third to C$16.3
billion in the quarter from a year earlier, including C$1
billion deals by  Telus Corp.  and  Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce .  Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital Markets was the top
arranger of company debt in the period, followed by CIBC and
Bank of Nova Scotia’s Scotia Capital unit, according to
Bloomberg data.  RBC Capital Markets ranked first in government debt sales
in the quarter as well as year-to-date, followed by TD
Securities and National Bank Financial, Bloomberg data show.  “The backdrop for a lot of provinces will remain very
favorable,” Royal Bank’s Chandler said. “The primary driver is
the reception in terms of longer-term yields and the
opportunities there, and that part really shouldn’t change
through early November.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Doug Alexander  in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ; or
Alec McCabe at   amccabe@bloomberg.net  