-- Billionaire Rao's GMR, Axis Discuss $360 Million Loan for Maldives Airport
-- B y   S u b r a m a n i a m   S h a r m a
-- 2010-10-01T04:58:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/billionaire-rao-s-gmr-axis-discuss-360-million-loan-for-maldives-airport.html
GMR Infrastructure Ltd. , controlled
by Indian billionaire  G.M. Rao , is in talks with  Axis Bank Ltd. 
on a loan of about $360 million to fund an airport project in
the Maldives.  GMR’s Maldives venture may sign the 12-year loan by the end
of this month, Sidharath Kapur, chief financial officer for
airports, said in a telephone interview yesterday from New Delhi.
The debt may be syndicated to overseas lenders and multilateral
agencies, he said, without providing a timeframe.  The Bangalore-based airport operator and partner  Malaysia
Airports Holdings Bhd.  in June won a bid to modernize and expand
Male International Airport as they seek to benefit from rising
tourism in the Maldives, a nation comprising 1,190 coral islands
in the Indian Ocean. Indian companies such as GMR have expanded
overseas as bureaucracy and land disputes slow infrastructure
projects at home.  “For a company like GMR to grow, this is the way it has to
be,” said  Jagannadham Thunuguntla , chief strategist at SMC
Global Securities Ltd., which manages $100 million in assets, in
New Delhi. “Indian infrastructure projects can face bottlenecks
and execution problems.”  A spokesman for  Axis Bank , India’s fourth biggest by market
value, said he wasn’t able to immediately comment.  Maldives Growth  GMR Maldives International Airport Ltd. will spend about
$510 million on the Male terminal, which will have a capacity to
handle 5 million users a year, Kapur said. The airport currently
handles about 2.5 million passengers a year, he said.  “The government of the Maldives is taking steps to attract
tourism from India and Southeast Asia,” he said. “That will
drive growth.”  GMR Maldives, 77 percent owned by the Indian company and 23
percent by Malaysia Airports, will build and operate the
terminal for 25 years. The facility will be ready by 2014.  GMR and partners also run airports in  Istanbul , Turkey,
India’s capital  New Delhi  and  Hyderabad  in the southern state of
Andhra Pradesh.  The Maldives attracted 683,000 tourists in 2008, growing at
an average 12 percent annual pace since 1980, compared with the
world average growth of 5 percent, the government said on its
 website .  GMR got about  33 percent  of revenue from airport operations
in the year ended in March, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The company also builds highways and operates power
projects.  In July, GMR’s new terminal in New Delhi started
international flights. The facility, run by a group also backed
by state-run Airports Authority of India Ltd., Frankfurt-based
Fraport AG and Malaysia Airports, cost about $2.7 billion to
develop, along with other renovations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Subramaniam Sharma  in New Delhi at 
 ssharma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net  