-- Blackstone, Oaktree Get Florida Pension Funds in Strategy Shift
-- B y   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u
-- 2010-10-01T17:35:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/blackstone-oaktree-get-florida-pension-funds-in-strategy-shift.html
Florida’s $117.1 billion pension, the
fourth-largest U.S. public plan, committed $700 million to money
managers including  Blackstone Group  LP and  Oaktree Capital
Management  LP for new distressed-debt and hedge fund
investments.  The awards are part of an asset-reallocation plan adopted
in June under which the pension will exit publicly traded high-
yield bonds and expand into privately traded distressed,
mezzanine and real-estate debt. It will also increase
commitments to hedge funds.  “After reviewing our existing and potential private-debt
funds in strategic investments versus what high-yield offered in
the current and anticipated economic and market conditions, we
decided to sell the majority of high yield,”  Kevin SigRist ,
deputy executive director of the State Board of Administration,
which runs the pension and $24 billion of other  Florida
investments , said in an e-mail yesterday.  The SBA in June increased its planned allocation to
strategic investments, which includes debt-oriented assets and
hedge funds, from 3.9 percent of its portfolio to 6 percent. The
board is seeking authorization to boost the category to as much
as 11 percent.  Debt-investment awards since then went to New York-based
 Blackstone Group ’s GSO Capital Solution’s Fund, which received
$100 million; Los Angeles-based Oaktree Capital’s Oaktree
Opportunities Fund VIII-B, which got $50 million; Coral Gables,
Florida-based Bayview Financial LP’s Bayview Opportunity Fund
II, which was granted $100 million, and Boston-based Audax
Group’s Senior Loan Fund, which was given $100 million.  Pending Investment  An additional investment approved for Minnetonka,
Minnesota-based CarVal Investors LLC’s CarVal Credit Value Fund
is pending, according to a Sept. 27 presentation to the
investment advisory council, which supervises the pension’s
assets.  The pension’s debt-oriented assets, which include
distressed holdings, were valued at $1.9 billion on June 30.
Another $1.9 billion had been committed but not distributed to
money managers, according to the presentation.  “There’s a tremendous number of distressed-debt
opportunities in the marketplace, and it benefits those that
have capital,” said  Dennis MacKee , spokesman for the SBA.  Hedge-fund money since June went to Knight Vinke Asset
Management LLC in New York, which received $250 million, and P2
Capital Partners LLC in New York, which got $100 million. The
pension held $102 million in hedge funds and related investments
as of June 30, according to the presentation.  The Florida retirement system holds more than 58 percent of
its funds in equities, according to a separate report released
at the advisory-board meeting. The pension’s assets rose 7
percent from July 1 to Sept. 30, said John Kuczwanski, an SBA
spokesman. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  gained 8.8 percent in
September, the biggest monthly increase since 1939.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simone Baribeau  in Miami at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 