-- India Secures New Delhi With 100,000 Police for Commonwealth Games Opening
-- B y   S u b r a m a n i a m   S h a r m a   a n d   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 2010-10-03T10:02:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/blue-skies-rescue-delhi-organizers-in-sprint-to-ready-commonwealth-games.html
India deployed thousands of security
personnel in New Delhi for today’s opening ceremony of the
 Commonwealth Games  as the country hosts its biggest sporting
event in almost three decades.  Britain’s  Prince Charles  and Indian President  Pratibha Patil  will jointly open the Games in the remodeled 60,000-seat
Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium. Tickets are sold out for the ceremony
featuring about 7,000 artists, a puppet show and yoga experts, 
while a giant helium-filled balloon towers above the stadium.  “We are getting frequent calls about the availability of
any ticket for the opening ceremony,” Ajay Sahni, an official
at the call center for ticketing, said in a telephone interview.
“They are getting disappointed when we told them that all
tickets are sold out.”  India’s Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  looked to the 12-day
competition involving 71 nations and territories to showcase the
country as a destination for overseas investment. Instead, media
reports of filthy accommodation for athletes, the collapse of a
stadium footbridge and monsoon floods led teams to delay their
arrival in New Delhi and threatened to deter the investors
needed to drive growth in Asia’s third-biggest economy, Moody’s
Analytics said on Sept. 24.  Police in the city canceled all leave and sent at least
 100,000 officers , as well as roof-top snipers and helicopters,
to protect 41 games-related sites, the airport and the village
for athletes attending the games.  Shops, Schools Shut  Giant screens have been installed in some parts of the city
for viewing the opening ceremony, while all shops, businesses,
restaurants and malls are shut. Schools are already closed for
two weeks.  “I am excited to perform in the evening today among so
many spectators,” said Sudarshan Patnaik, a sand artist from
the eastern state of Orissa, who will perform a “sand
animation” to showcase a story on Mahatma Gandhi during a
performance by Oscar-winning “Slumdog Millionaire” composer
A.R. Rahman.  The government spent $4.6 billion upgrading stadiums,
refurbishing roads, building overpasses, and power and water
utilities to stage the event. About 15 kilometers of new metro
line linking the stadium where the ceremony will be held was
opened today, adding to the city’s urban rail network.  Cleaning, Rebuilding  Organizers, in the past two weeks, undertook a cleaning and
rebuilding operation to have venues ready on time after
newspaper headlines described dirty bathrooms and mattresses
muddied by stray dogs at the games village, wiring and plumbing
that didn’t work and the wounding of two Taiwanese nationals in
a shooting at the city’s main mosque.  Singh, concerned the nation’s image was being sullied as
teams from Scotland, Canada and New Zealand delayed their
departure for the games, instructed ministers to closely monitor
preparations as organizers pressed thousands of emergency
workers into round-the-clock operations.  “After this tremendous mess, things seem to be falling in
place,” said  Ansgar Sickert , managing director of Fraport AG’s
India unit, who has been living in New Delhi since 2006. “If
everything goes through smoothly, the impression will be that
India can pull it off.”  The atheletes’ village has had its first case of dengue
fever, Reuters reported today. The member of India’s lawn
bowling team, who has been in Delhi since March, may have got it
from outside the games village, the report said, citing a
hospital spokesperson.  Baton Relay  On the eve of the Oct. 3-14 games, the  Queen’s baton , the
event’s equivalent of the Olympic torch, made its way through
central districts of the city after a 190,000-kilometer
(118,000-mile) journey around competing nations.  Australia’s Dani Samuels, the discus world champion, and
English triple-jumper  Phillips Idowu  were among athletes to
withdraw from the event citing health and safety fears.  Commonwealth Games Federation chief Mike Fennell said at a
Sept. 25 press conference in Delhi he was disappointed with the
Indian organizers and that the lack of preparedness for the
sporting event has hurt the reputation of the country.  “A lot of damage has been done to India as a host
country,” Fennell said. “I would hope at the end of all this,
India would have learnt a great lesson.”  The negative publicity “could deter foreign investment and
give multinational businesses considering expanding in India
reason to think twice,”  Matt Robinson , a senior economist at
Moody’s Analytics in Sydney, said in a note.  ‘We’ve Been Happy’  Steve Edwards, a 24-year-old member of the New Zealand
men’s hockey team, said the work has paid off. “We heard
reports that things weren’t so good, but we’ve been happy” with
what we’ve seen so far, he said two days ago at the games
village.  The event, held every four years and first staged in 1930,
features 8,000 athletes and officials, most from the U.K. and
its former colonies and dependencies.  Other venues were praised by competitors. “The range is
amazing,” Canadian pistol shooter Patricia Boulay said in
comments on Team Canada’s  website . “It has all of the high-tech
electronics that make for a great experience for both the
shooters and the spectators.”  The capital’s central shopping district, Connaught Place,
built by the British eight decades ago, was renovated for the
games. The collapsed footbridge has been replaced by one built
by army engineers in six days.  “The beautification work and other infrastructure has
really improved life,” said Chandini Mehta, a marketing
executive with the Neemrana chain of  heritage hotels . “I am
happy for Delhi.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Subramaniam Sharma  in New Delhi at 
 ssharma@bloomberg.net ;
 Tushar Dhara  in New Delhi at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net . 