-- BMW Says Third-Quarter Vehicle Sales Beat Forecast as X1 SUV Wins Buyers
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 2010-10-01T10:12:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/bmw-beats-third-quarter-target-as-september-worldwide-sales-rise-ceo-says.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG , the
world’s biggest maker of luxury vehicles, said deliveries in the
third quarter beat its forecasts as the new X1 sport-utility
vehicle and revamped 5-Series sedan won customers.  Sales of BMW, Mini and Rolls-Royce cars and SUVs rose about
16 percent in September to cap a “ very good” three-month
period, Chief Executive Officer  Norbert Reithofer  said today at
a Paris Motor Show briefing.  BMW  has a target of selling 2 million cars and SUVs by
2020, and is planning on 10 percent growth in deliveries this
year to 1.4 million vehicles. The Munich-based manufacturer,
which is also developing a new front-wheel-drive model, will
overhaul the 1-Series compact and 3-Series sedan in the next two
years, providing momentum for sales independent of economic
developments, Reithofer said today.  The front-wheel-drive technology, to be installed in BMW-
brand models, will also be used in the Mini small-car lineup,
Reithofer said. Sales volumes for the vehicles could total
700,000 to 1 million vehicles a year, he said.  BMW cooperates on engine technology for the Mini brand with
 PSA Peugeot Citroen , Europe’s second-biggest carmaker, and it’s
forming a purchasing partnership with  Daimler AG ’s Mercedes-
Benz, the No. 2 luxury automaker worldwide.  BMW doesn’t need a partner for the front-wheel-drive
platform because it can generate economies of scale on its own,
the CEO said. There are also no talks with Peugeot about
expanding their partnership to carbon-fiber parts, he said.  Reithofer didn’t specify sales figures for September or the
quarter. Group deliveries in September 2009 totaled 122,354
vehicles. Sales increased 9.1 percent in July 2010 and 13
percent in August.  The CEO declined to comment on financial expectations for
the third quarter, saying he hasn’t seen internal figures yet.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 