-- Boeing 787 Suppliers in Japan to Boost Output in 2011
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2010-10-01T09:33:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/boeing-787-suppliers-fuji-kawasaki-to-add-parts-lines-in-2011.html
Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd. and
 Kawasaki Heavy Industries Ltd.  will open new production lines in
Japan for sections of  Boeing Co. ’s 787 next year as the
planemaker ramps up production.  Fuji Heavy will start a third production line for center
wing boxes at its Handa City factory in July, Yasuhiro Toi, a
general manager, told reporters yesterday during a plant tour.
Kawasaki will open a line for fuselage sections at a plant in
Gifu Prefecture, Akira Taniguchi, a staff officer, said at a
separate event. Both declined to comment on the costs involved.  Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. , Japan’s biggest aerospace
manufacturer, is working to boost its production of sections to
support construction of 10 787s a month as the Dreamliner nears
entry into service early next year, about three years behind
schedule. Fuji, Kawasaki, and Mitsubishi, Japan’s three biggest
aerospace companies, are building about 35 percent of the plane.  Kawasaki and Fuji have each shipped sections for 40
 Dreamliners  so far, according to Toi and Taniguchi. Mitsubishi
Heavy has shipped 29 pairs of wings to Boeing for production
aircraft, Alan Crowder, site leader for Boeing said today in
Nagoya, Japan. The aircraft uses plastic composites so that it’s
more fuel-efficient than conventional jetliners.  Korean Makers  Korea Aerospace Industries Ltd., which makes 787 tail
sections, and Korean Air Lines Co., a wingtip fabricator, both
said this week they would boost output to enough for 10 planes a
month.  Mitsubishi Heavy, which has about 1,000 workers on the 787,
may need to add employees as it increases production, Kazuya
Takaoka, a group manager at the company, said. The company has
tested higher production rates for 787 parts on its production
line, George Maffeo, Boeing vice president, said today.  Boeing has delayed delivery of the first Dreamliner to
maiden customer  All Nippon Airways Co.  six times.  The latest setback came on Aug. 27 with the company saying
Rolls-Royce Group Plc couldn’t supply an engine needed to
complete flight testing. Boeing last year had to redesign joints
where the wings meet the plane’s body after signs of separation
were observed during ground tests.  Fuji climbed 2.4 percent to 545 yen at the 3 p.m. close in
Tokyo trading. Kawasaki fell 0.8 percent to 235 yen, while
Mitsubishi Heavy was unchanged at 308 yen. The benchmark Nikkei
225 Stock Average rose 0.4 percent. Boeing gained 0.9 percent to
$66.54 yesterday in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
 Kiyotaka Matsuda  in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  