-- Buyouts Primed for Comeback, Default Swaps Show: Credit Markets
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s   a n d   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 2010-10-01T16:43:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/lbos-primed-for-comeback-as-default-swaps-rise-with-loans-credit-markets.html
Credit-default swaps are signaling
debt-fueled buyouts will stage a comeback as loans used to
finance takeovers reach the highest prices in more than four
months and investors snap up the most  junk bonds  on record.  The cost to protect against losses on Sealed Air Corp.
bonds reached a 17-month high today and  Computer Sciences Corp .
swaps jumped the most last week since May amid speculation they
may become targets for leveraged buyouts. Takeovers involving
private-equity firms, which historically have borrowed two-
thirds or more of the deal price, more than tripled in the third
quarter to $59 billion from a year earlier, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Almost three years after seizing up, credit markets have
healed enough to enable a $10 billion buyout, said  Tony James ,
president of the world’s largest private-equity firm Blackstone
Group LP. Companies have sold $195 billion of high-yield bonds
this year in the U.S., surpassing the all-time annual amount
with three months to go in 2010.  “The LBO bid is back,” said Nicholas Pappas, co-head of
flow credit trading in the Americas at Deutsche Bank AG in  New
York . “Private-equity funds have a lot of cash and LBOs are
very correlated to the strength of the capital markets. The
credit market is very strong right now.”  Banks arranged $249.6 billion of leveraged loans during the
first nine months of this year, almost triple the 2009 amount
and the most since 2007, Bloomberg data show. Prices have risen
to 90.46 cents on the dollar, the highest since May 18, from 59
cents in December 2008, as concern eased that the world’s
largest economy will slide back into recession.  ‘LBO Volumes’  “With the stability in the credit markets and the kind of
issuance volume we’ve seen the last two months, I would look for
a pick-up in LBO volumes,” said Hans Mikkelsen, a credit
analyst at Bank of America Corp. in New York.  Elsewhere in credit markets, a benchmark default swaps
gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk fell for the fourth day.
Burger King Holdings Inc. increased the size of a  term loan  its
seeking for its buyout by 3G Capital and relative yields on
emerging market debt fell.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index
declined 1.9 basis points to a mid-price of 104.8 basis points
as of 12:39 p.m. in New York, Markit Group Ltd. prices show. The
measure is trading at the lowest since a new series of the index
started on Sept. 20.  The extra yield investors demand to own company bonds
instead of similar maturity government debt was unchanged
yesterday at 173 basis points, or 1.73 percentage points, down
from this year’s high of 201 basis points on June 11, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate
Index. Yields averaged 3.477 percent.  European Union  Burger King increased a term loan its seeking by $100
million to $1.85 billion, according to a person familiar with
the negotiations. The Miami-based company also cut a bond
offering by the same amount to $800 million, said the person,
who declined to be identified because terms are private.  European Union finance ministers and central bank heads are
discussing today whether government debt ratings are necessary
as well as possible fines for rating companies that mislead
investors.  The “economic and political implications” of sovereign-
debt ratings mean “it is particularly important that ratings of
this asset class be accurate, timely and transparent,”
according to a copy of a proposal obtained by Bloomberg News to
be presented by the  European Commission  at a meeting in
Brussels.  In emerging markets, the extra yield investors demand to
hold corporate debt rather than government debentures fell five
basis points to 271. Spreads have narrowed from 338 basis points
at the end of June and 277 on Dec. 31.  Bond Sales  Corporate bond sales total at least $819.4 billion
worldwide this quarter. While that’s up from $595.3 billion in
the second quarter, offerings declined from $940.8 billion in
the first three months of 2010, Bloomberg data show.  Issuance in the U.S. last month of $153.8 billion is the
highest for any September, Bloomberg data show.  The Standard & Poor’s/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 index
rose for a fifth day, climbing 0.08 cent on the dollar. The
index, which tracks the 100 largest dollar-denominated first-
lien leveraged loans, returned 4.11 percent this quarter,
following a loss of 2.59 percent in the preceding period. For
the year, loans have gained 5.71 percent.  High-yield, high-risk loans and bonds are rated below Baa3
by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- by S&P.  Private-equity firms are seeing more opportunities than
they can raise capital for, Blackstone’s James said yesterday at
the Bloomberg Dealmakers Summit in New York.  ‘Blockbuster Size’  “You’re not getting the blockbuster size, so maybe the
aggregate numbers don’t add up to as much,” he said. “But
there’s a lot of activity. Financing markets have been quite
hospitable. I think you can do deals up to $10 billion these
days.”  Buyout firms announced a record $1.6 trillion of
acquisitions from 2005 to 2007.  Credit swaps on perceived LBO targets jumped earlier this
year on speculation of a pickup in buyouts. That all but ceased
by June as concerns of a default by  Greece  and debt strains in
other European nations sent investors fleeing from all but the
safest assets.  Blackstone, Thomas H. Lee Partners LP and TPG Capital in
May walked away from talks to pay more than $15 billion
including debt for Fidelity National Information Services Inc.,
after the company sought a higher price, people briefed on the
talks said.  Buyout Risk  The specter of bigger deals has prompted analysts and
traders to dust off computer programs that identify potential
targets, allowing credit-swap investors to find alternatives to
buying shares to profit from mergers and acquisitions.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  The swaps typically rise if a company is deemed a buyout
risk because the debt added to its balance sheet to fund the
takeover erodes its  credit quality  and leads to ratings
downgrades.  After talks that led to Freescale Semiconductor Inc.’s $19
billion buyout by a Blackstone-led group were reported in
September 2006, swaps on its debt more than tripled, according
to data provider CMA. Shares in the company rose 20 percent.  Computer Sciences  When Jefferies & Co. analyst Joseph Vafi said Sept. 10 that
Computer Sciences may make an attractive takeover target for a
private-equity company, swaps tied to the company’s debt jumped
10 basis points to 115, CMA data show. The shares rose 2.7
percent that day.  The swap contracts climbed another 28 basis points last
week after reports that Seagate Technology Plc, the world’s
largest maker of hard-disk drives, held talks with previous
owners TPG and  Silver Lake  about a deal that would have been
valued at about $7 billion. Talks ended in recent weeks and a
transaction is unlikely to happen, people with knowledge of the
discussions said.  Computer Sciences swaps rose 3.5 basis points to 144.3
basis points as of 11 a.m. today, CMA prices show. Chris Grandis, a spokesman for the  Falls Church , Virginia-based
company, declined to comment.  Swaps on Sealed Air and Packaging Corp. of America
increased yesterday on LBO speculation, according to Tim Backshall, chief strategist at Credit Derivatives Research LLC
in Walnut Creek,  California .  Sealed Air  “It’s not so much a rumor of it happening at any minute as
that they look prone to a potential corporate event,” he said.  Contracts on Sealed Air, the maker of Bubble Wrap products,
climbed 2.4 basis points today to 200.3, the highest since April
2009, CMA data show. They’ve risen 12 basis points since Sept.
27.  The risk for bondholders of a Sealed Air buyout increased
after Hefty trash-bag maker Pactiv Corp. agreed on Aug. 17 to be
bought by Rank Group Ltd. for about $4.5 billion, Egan-Jones
Ratings Co. in Haverford,  Pennsylvania , said yesterday in a
report.  “It makes it that much easier for a peer firm to also be
purchased,” Egan-Jones President  Sean Egan  said. The ratings
firm also ranks a company’s buyout risk based on its ability to
take on new debt, the stability of its  cash flow  and its share
price, he said.  Mary Coventry, a spokeswoman for Elmwood Park, New Jersey-
based Sealed Air, didn’t respond to calls for comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  