-- Bovespa Index Rises, Completes Biggest Weekly Gain Since July
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s   a n d   F e l i p e   F r i s c h
-- 2010-10-01T21:39:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/bovespa-stock-index-futures-advance-on-brazil-china-industrial-production.html
The Bovespa  stock  index gained for a
fifth day, capping the biggest weekly advance since July, as a
drop in Brazilian manufacturing eased bets for higher borrowing
costs and commodities gained.  PDG Realty SA Empreendimentos & Participacoes  surged,
helping the benchmark real-estate gauge rise to a record, as
traders speculated interest rates will rise less next year.
 Natura Cosmeticos SA , Brazil’s biggest cosmetics maker,
increased the most in two weeks. Petroleo Brasileiro SA,
Brazil’s state-controlled oil company, climbed as crude prices
jumped. Iron-ore producer  Vale SA  gained for a 10th day, the
longest winning streak since April 2007, as metals rose.  “Companies are expected to perform well here and in the
U.S., and that’s already having an effect,” said  Kelly Trentin ,
head analyst at Spinelli Corretora in Sao Paulo. “We’re in a
very good situation.”  The  Bovespa  rose 1.2 percent to 70,229.35 as of the close
at 4 p.m. New York time, extending its weekly advance to 3
percent. Three stocks gained for each that fell. The real was
little changed at 1.6867 per dollar. The Bovespa climbed
yesterday, capping the biggest quarterly gain in a year, on
speculation quickening economic growth won’t trigger inflation.  “The fundamentals of Brazil’s economy remain as solid as
ever,” Banco BTG Pactual SA analysts including  Carlos Sequeira 
wrote in a note to clients today. “We are more optimistic now
that Petrobras’s mega offering is behind us. The end of the
election process in Brazil may also help, as discussions return
to economic fundamentals.”  Presidential Election  Dilma Rousseff , who served as cabinet chief under President
 Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva, has a 23 percentage-point lead over
opposition candidate and former Sao Paulo Governor  Jose Serra ,
according to an Ibope poll published Sept. 29. Rousseff had the
support of 50 percent of those surveyed, enough to give her a
first-round election victory on Oct. 3. Serra had 27 percent,
and Green Party candidate  Marina Silva  had 13 percent, according
to Ibope.  “There will be little impact” on the market, said  Augusto Lange , who helps manage 1.25 billion reais ($745 million) at Neo
Gestao de Recursos in Sao Paulo. “It’s already pretty expected
that she’s going to win. I don’t think there will be any
difference if it happens in the first or second round.”  Brazil’s industrial output fell 0.1 percent in August from
July as a stronger real weighed on exporters and re-stocking
tailed off, the national statistics agency said. That compares
to the median estimate for a 0.5 percent expansion in a
Bloomberg survey of 32 analysts.  China Production  Yields on interest-rate futures contracts due in January
2012, the most traded in Sao Paulo, fell six basis points, or
0.06 percentage point, to 11.44 percent.  Copper rose to a 26-month high in New York after China’s
manufacturing expanded at the fastest pace in four months in
September, adding to signs that economic growth is stabilizing
even as the government curbs energy use and tries to cool the
property market. China is the biggest buyer of Brazil’s exports.  The purchasing managers’ index rose to 53.8 from 51.7 in
August, China’s logistics federation and statistics bureau said
in an e-mail. The median forecast of 15 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was 52.5, with none forecasting such a large
gain. Readings above 50 indicate expansions. The data reinforce
evidence from a separate purchasing manager survey two days ago
that China’s industries are gearing up again after the economy
slowed in the second quarter.  Petrobras  Petrobras, which last week held a $70 billion share sale,
gained 0.8 percent to 27.50 reais.  Vale , the world’s largest
iron-ore producer, rose 1 percent to 46.75 reais, the highest
price since April 29. PDG jumped 4.2 percent, the most since
Sept. 22, to 20.99 reais as the  BM&FBovespa Real Estate Index 
climbed 2.6 percent. Natura increased 2.2 percent to 46.50
reais.  The  Bovespa  index trades for 13.4 times analysts’ earnings
estimates, compared with 12.9 times for the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index of 21 developing nations’ stocks and 15.8 times
for Mexico’s IPC index, according to weekly data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Bovespa trades at 15.6 times the reported profits
of its companies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alexander Cuadros  in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net ;
Felipe Frisch in Sao Paulo at 
 ffrisch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  