-- Brazil's August Trade Surplus Narrows to Six-Month Low on Real, Imports
-- B y   I u r i   D a n t a s
-- 2010-10-01T14:58:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/brazil-s-august-trade-surplus-narrows-to-six-month-low-on-real-imports.html
Brazil’s trade  surplus  missed
estimates and narrowed to the lowest since March as imports
outpaced exports on the currency’s rally and sustained domestic
demand.  The country’s trade surplus fell to $1.09 billion in
September, from $2.44 billion in August, the  Trade Ministry 
said. The monthly figure was lower than the $1.4 billion median
forecast of 19 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Exports  fell 2.1 percent to $18.8 billion in September,
from the previous month, while  imports  rose 5.62 percent to
$17.7 billion, from August, the ministry said. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg expected exports of $18.6 billion and
imports of $17.2 billion, according to the median forecast of 12
analysts.  “The real is getting stronger and rushing imports,” said
 Pedro Tuesta , senior economist at 4Cast Inc., in a telephone
interview from New York. “The pressure on the real is on the
financial side, the appreciation will continue.”  Latin America’s biggest economy may grow at the fastest
pace in two decades this year, boosting imports and widening the
 current account  deficit to the highest on record in 2011, the
central bank said yesterday in its quarterly inflation report.
Brazil’s real has gained 6.3 percent against the dollar in the
last three months.  The real strengthened for a sixth day, climbing 0.3 percent
to 1.6824 per U.S. dollar at 10:46 a.m. New York time, its
highest level in two years. In the overnight interest-rate
futures market, the yield on the January 2012 contract fell four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 11.46 percent.  Brazil’s gross domestic product may expand 7.3 percent this
year, in line with a sustainable rate in long term, the central
bank said in its inflation report yesterday.  Brazil’s government is considering higher taxes on capital
inflows in a bid to stem the real’s rally as other countries
adopt policies to weaken their currencies, central bank
President  Henrique Meirelles  said this week.  There is an “overflow of U.S. dollars as a result of U.S.
monetary policy, which is adequate for the U.S. but evidently is
creating a very, very substantial increase in liquidity in
dollars for other countries,” Meirelles said this week.  Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said Sept. 27 the
government will buy all “excess dollars” in the market to curb
the real’s appreciation as governments around the world engage
in a “currency war.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Iuri Dantas  in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  