-- Brazil Cotton Growers Seek to Boost Output as India Scales Back Exports
-- B y   K a t i a   C o r t e s
-- 2010-10-01T18:12:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/brazil-cotton-growers-seek-to-boost-output-as-india-scales-back-exports.html
Cotton growers in Brazil, the world’s
fifth-largest exporter of the fiber, plan to increase output
next year after prices surged and India said it will scale back
shipments, the head of an industry group said.  Producers aim to boost output to 1.5 million metric tons in
2011, from 1.2 million tons this year, said  Haroldo Cunha , head
of the Brazilian Association of Cotton Producers, or Abrapa.
Planting for the next harvest may rise to 1.1 million hectares
(2.7 million acres) from 830,000 hectares this year, he said.  Cotton prices have soared 73 percent in the past year and
reached a 15-year high of $1.064 on Sept. 28 after India, the
world’s second-biggest exporter after the U.S., said it will
limit exports to stem rising domestic prices. The delay in
shipments from the Asian country may widen a supply deficit as
world demand outpaces output, creating an opportunity for Brazil
to boost exports, Cunha said.  “Brazil has good chances of winning markets unattended by
India,” Cunha said yesterday in a telephone interview from
Liverpool, where he attended a cotton industry seminar.  India will limit exports to 5.5 million bales of 170
kilograms (375 pounds) each in the season starting Oct. 1, and
the cap will be reviewed in the middle of December, Farm
Minister  Sharad Pawar  said on Sept. 28. Exports in the year that
ended yesterday were estimated to be 8.3 million bales,
according to the Cotton Advisory Board.  Cotton may stay above $1 a pound until the end of the first
half of 2011, Cunha said.  Government Aid  Brazil’s government may consider increased financing for
cotton growers to encourage them to raise output next year, said
 Celio Porto , secretary of international affairs at the Brazilian
Agriculture Ministry.  “It can be an intelligent measure to increase credit
limits for growers as a way to help them boost output,” Porto
said in an interview yesterday in Brasilia. “I’ll look into
this possibility.”  A four-month drought hurt the quality of the crop this year
in Brazil, causing output to fall short of  Abrapa ’s estimate for
1.35 million tons, Cunha said.  The government on Sept. 14 temporarily eliminated a 10
percent tariff on cotton imports as domestic supplies fall short
of demand after a four-month drought hurt the quality of crops.
The tax will apply to imports of as much as 250,000 tons from
October to May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katia Cortes  in Brasilia at  at
 kcortes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 