-- Breedon Aggregates CEO Lies in Wait for Cast-Offs From Debt-Laden Lafarge
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2010-10-01T10:38:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/breedon-aggregates-ceo-lies-in-wait-for-cast-offs-from-debt-laden-lafarge.html
Breedon Aggregates Ltd.  is ready to
pounce on large takeover targets should Lafarge SA or another
major building-material supplier sell gravel and crushed rock
operations in the U.K., the two top executives said.  “If Lafarge put its aggregates up for sale we’d be very
interested,” Chairman  Peter Tom  and said in an interview.
“We’d like to get some more scale. We’ve certainly got the
impression that we could get away a very large deal.”  Tom orchestrated the sale of Aggregate Industries Plc to
 Holcim Ltd.  of Switzerland for $4.1 billion in 2005 before
starting Breedon. The investment company already approached one
undisclosed joint venture, though one side of the partnership
doesn’t want to sell, Chief Executive Officer  Simon Vivian  said.  Breedon,  backed  by the Marwyn investment fund, is timing an
acquisition spree with a slump in construction that’s cut the
value of quarries and plants. Derby-based Breedon has a “long
list” of targets and could also take part in consolidation via
asset swaps, said Vivian, the former CEO of U.K. builder Mowlem.  Cemex SAB ,  Lafarge  and  HeidelbergCement SA  are among the
building-material suppliers that plan to make disposals to cut
debt after spending more than $30 billion combined on U.K.
acquisitions. There is currently no dialogue between Breedon and
 Anglo American Plc  over buying the remainder of the mining
company’s Tarmac business, the managers said.  Concrete Mixing  Lafarge  is in the process of divesting more than 500
million euros ($686 million) of businesses.  Claire Mathieu , a
spokeswoman for the Paris-based company, declined to comment
on disposals and British aggregates operations. Lafarge 
purchased British cement maker Blue Circle in 2001, and has 52 
quarries and 119 ready-mix concrete plants in the U.K.  For the time being, Breedon is negotiating “some smaller,
exclusive deals,” of which one or two should be completed in
the next six months, Tom said. The targets are family
businesses, priced at as much as 15 million pounds each.  Breedon, which operates 29 quarries, 19 asphalt plants and
27 concrete plants in England and Scotland, has advanced 16
percent to 16.25 pence since listing shares in London on June
12. Invesco Ltd., Scottish Widows Plc and  George Soros  are among
its backers, through their investment in Marwyn.  The product of a reverse takeover of bankrupt Ennstone Plc,
Breedon is currently trading profitably, Vivian said. The CEO
and Tom expect to turn a profit or be close to it next year. The
company may need to book some writedowns on fully valued mineral
assets. They declined to give forecasts for profit.  To pay off debt and generate funding, surplus land will be
sold off, Vivian said. Breedon is in talks with major
homebuilders including  Barratt Developments Plc  and  Redrow Plc 
over a site near Telford, northwest of Birmingham.  “We should be able to pull in about 20 million pounds in
asset sales,” Vivian said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Noel  in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  