-- British Pound Strengthens Against Dollar, Yen on Stock Gains; Gilts Slide
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2010-10-01T16:19:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/british-pound-strengthens-against-dollar-yen-on-stock-gains-gilts-slide.html
The pound rose against the dollar and
the yen, fueled by gains in stocks and signs the global economic
recovery is being sustained.  The pound also strengthened against 11 of 16 most active
currencies as a report showed China’s manufacturing expanded at
the fastest pace in four months in September and Fitch Ratings
boosted its growth forecast for the U.K.  The FTSE 100 Index 
jumped 0.9 percent, snapping two days of declines.  “The data from China suggests that perhaps the pessimism
in the market about the global economy has gone too far,” said
 Jane Foley , a senior currency strategist at Rabobank
International in London. “It injects some risk appetite into
the market, and the pound reacts positively to that.”  The pound climbed 0.7 percent against the dollar to $1.5821
at 4:44 p.m. in London. Sterling jumped 5.2 percent in the third
quarter, its biggest three-month gain since the period ended
June 2009. It traded 0.4 higher against the yen at 131.77.  Gilts fell as the gains in stocks reduced demand for fixed-
income securities. The yield on the 10-year gilt climbed 1 basis
point to 2.96 percent, and the two-year yield was up 1 basis
point to 0.64 percent.  An index of U.K. manufacturing growth dropped to a 10-month
low last month, with the gauge falling to 53.4 from a revised
53.7 in August, data from the Chartered Institute of Purchasing
and Supply and Markit Economics said today. The median estimate
of 23 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a reading of
53.8. A measure above 50 indicates expansion.  Weekly Move  Gilts handed investors a 3.8 percent return in the third
quarter, beating a 2 percent gain from German bonds and a 2.7
percent increase from U.S. Treasuries, according to indexes
compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  Further gains in the pound may be limited. The currency is
headed for a weekly loss against 15 of the 16 most active
currencies on speculation that the Bank of England will soon
resume its bond-purchase program to support the economy. The so-
called quantitative easing may undermine sterling as it’s seen
as inflationary.  Policy maker  Adam Posen  said this week that Bank of England
officials should discuss more bond purchases. The British
Chambers of Commerce, a lobby group representing 100,000
companies, gave its backing to Posen’s idea.  “Adam Posen is right,” BCC Chief Economist  David Kern 
said in an interview in London. “All the evidence that we have
suggests growth is slowing. Possibly as early as November we
will get more quantitative easing.”  The pound has fallen 4.6 percent against developed-world
currencies so far this year, according to Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Currency Indices.  ‘Global Factors’  Gilts declined alongside AAA-rated German and French
government securities as peripheral bonds, including those
issued by Spain and Ireland, rallied amid signs that Europe’s
high-deficit countries are tackling their crises.  Ireland’s government said yesterday it’s preparing to take
majority control of  Allied Irish Banks Plc  and pump extra cash
into Anglo Irish Bank Corp.  “Gilts have fallen on global factors,” said  Orlando Green , a fixed-income strategist at Credit Agricole Corporate &
Investment Bank in London. “Data-wise, Europe’s doing well and
plans have been announced that have given the market that bit of
belief that maybe there is a way out of it. It’s taken a little
bit of the edge off the gilt market.”  European Central Bank Governing Council member  Ewald Nowotny  said the central bank will continue buying government
bonds from countries with fiscal problems as long as there are
inefficiencies in the markets, Wirtschaftwoche reported.  “Markets are exaggerating the risk premiums” for
government bonds from countries including Ireland and Portugal,
Nowotny was cited as saying. “As long as these inefficiencies
prevail, we will correct them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  