-- Dido Sued by Astronaut for Using Space Flight Picture
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2010-10-02T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/british-pop-star-dido-sued-by-astronaut-over-use-of-space-flight-picture.html
Former NASA astronaut Bruce
McCandless sued pop singer  Dido  for what he said was
unauthorized use of a photo of his 1984 space flight for an
album cover.  McCandless said in a complaint filed Sept. 30 in federal
court in Los Angeles that he never gave permission for Dido to
use the photograph that shows him “ free flying ” about 320 feet
away from the space shuttle Challenger. The photograph is used
on the cover of Dido’s 2008 album “ Safe Trip Home .”  The lawsuit, which seeks unspecified damages, also names
 Sony Corp. ’s Sony Music Entertainment and  Getty Images Inc.  as
defendants. McCandless said in the complaint that Sony was
informed as early as June of last year that the use of his image
was unauthorized.  The 1984 photograph was taken when McCandless tested the
so-called manned maneuvering unit, a nitrogen jet propelled
backpack, according to the complaint. The photograph taken by
the shuttle’s co-pilot shows McCandless floating in the distance
against a backdrop of black outer space and the earth’s blue
atmosphere.  “McCandless’ Feb. 7, 1984, flight remains the only
occasion on which the manned maneuvering unit has been flown to
such a significant distance from a shuttle and allowed such
photographs to be taken,” the former astronaut said in the
complaint.  Persona Infringed  The suit doesn’t allege copyright infringement, only
infringement of his persona.  Dido, born Florian Cloud de Bounevialle Armstrong, became
well known when rapper Eminem sampled one of her songs for his
2000 hit “Stan.” She was named best British female artist by
the British Phonograph Industry in 2002 and 2004. “Safe Trip
Home” is her third album.  Danielle Romeo, a spokeswoman for Dido’s management company
Nettwerk Music Group, didn’t immediately return a call to her
office yesterday.  Liz Young , a spokeswoman for Sony Music Entertainment,
declined to comment on the lawsuit. Jodi Einhorn, a spokeswoman
for Getty Images, had no immediate comment.  The case is Bruce McCandless v. Sony Music Entertainment,
10-07323, U.S. District Court, Central District of California
(Los Angeles.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edvard Pettersson  in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 