-- Dollar Thrifty's Rejection Nearly Wipes Out Bullish Hertz Options Traders
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2010-10-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/bullish-hertz-options-traders-nearly-wiped-out-by-dollar-thrifty-rejection.html
Hertz Global Holdings Inc.  options
traders who snapped up bullish contracts as the company bid to
buy its rival were nearly wiped out yesterday after Dollar
Thrifty Automotive Group Inc. shareholders rejected the offer.  Investors abandoning bets on Hertz sent the company’s most-
widely owned contracts plunging, erasing almost all of their
value yesterday as the stock tumbled 8.8 percent to $10.59.
Hertz’s October $12 calls, which accounted for more than a
quarter of all 147,425 existing contracts, plunged 82 percent to
10 cents and accounted for more than two-thirds of call trades.  “Investors essentially gave up,” said  Patrick Mortimer ,
director of options trading at Pipeline Trading Systems LLC in
New Hope, Pennsylvania. “Everyone is just getting out of the
hopeful long positions.”  Dollar Thrifty shareholders rejected Hertz’s $1.44 billion
takeover offer a day after Avis Budget Group Inc. added a
breakup fee to its higher bid. The rejection indicates the end
of Hertz’s attempt to add the Dollar and Thrifty rental-car
brands to its namesake service.  Open interest for the October $12 calls, which expire two
weeks from today, had surged 202-fold over the prior two weeks
to 40,069 existing contracts. They were yesterday’s  most-active 
Hertz options. Fifty-nine percent of the trades were at the bid
price, indicating that sellers initiated most transactions.  Calls give the right to buy a security for a certain amount,
the strike price, by a set date. Puts convey the right to sell.
Investors use options to guard against fluctuations in the price
of securities they own, speculate on share-price moves or bet
that  volatility , or stock swings, will rise or fall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Kearns  in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 