-- California Budget Impasse Enters Fourth Month as IOU Option Looms Larger
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2010-10-01T04:23:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/california-budget-impasse-enters-fourth-month-as-iou-option-looms-larger.html
California ’s longest budget impasse
entered its fourth month today as Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger 
and top lawmakers wrestled over pensions and corporate taxes to
close a $19.1 billion deficit.  Reining in state retirement costs and providing tax breaks
for businesses remain sticking points, aides said as legislative
leaders emerged from a four-hour meeting at the Republican
governor’s Sacramento office last night.  “We still have some issues that need to be resolved that
are significant,” said Senate President Pro Tem  Darrell Steinberg , a Democrat from Los Angeles. He said another meeting
is scheduled today.  California, the largest issuer of municipal bonds in the
U.S., hasn’t had a budget since the fiscal year began July 1.
Controller  John Chiang  may decide as soon as next week on when
he might begin issuing warrants, or IOUs, to conserve cash for
priority bill payments such as debt service, aides said. It
would mark the second year in a row he’s had to pay with scrip
because of a budget impasse.  California today must pay $804 million for debt service and
make a $621 million contribution to state pension funds,
according to Schwarzenegger’s Finance Department. In August,
budget officials decided to delay paying $2.9 billion of
subsidies to schools and counties last month in order to make
sure there was enough cash on hand to make payments due today.  Framework Settled  The governor and the Democratic and Republican legislative
leaders, known as the Big Five, said Sept. 24 that they had
agreed to a framework to end the budget stalemate. Talks stalled
this week when they tried to hash out the final details on
closing the deficit. Democrats control both legislative chambers
in the state. Schwarzenegger, nearing the end of his time in
office, couldn’t seek re-election because of term limits.  As negotiations faltered, Treasurer  Bill Lockyer  said Sept.
27 that he was lining up a short-term loan of more than $5
billion from a group of Wall Street banks to tide the state over
with enough cash once a budget agreement was reached. He said
the borrowing would be repaid with an estimated $10 billion of
short-term notes the state will sell later this month or next.
The state can’t issue the notes until it has a budget.  Lockyer has said that if the impasse lasts much longer, he
may not have sufficient time to sell enough long-term bonds used
to finance thousands of public works projects. That’s because of
a self-imposed “dark period” in December and early January
when he typically doesn’t sell debt while new economic data are
prepared, along with a new budget  proposal  for the coming fiscal
year. The governor must deliver the new spending plan to the
Legislature in the second week of January.  Pension Issue  Schwarzenegger has said he won’t sign any spending plan
unless lawmakers agree to roll back pension benefits for state
workers to 1999 levels. The governor has suggested limiting
state pension costs by requiring workers to contribute 5 percent
more from their pay, pushing back retirement age, and basing
benefits on the three years of highest wages instead of one.  Democrats have resisted Schwarzenegger’s demands. They have
insisted such changes be made through contract talks with
unions. Schwarzenegger has already brokered similar concessions
with negotiators representing 35,000 California workers and is
in talks with the largest group, the Service Employees
International Union.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Marois  in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 