-- Canada's Currency Strengthens as Oil Rises Amid Increase in Risk Appetite
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-10-01T20:43:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/canada-s-currency-reaches-weakest-level-versus-the-euro-in-past-six-months.html
Canada’s currency rose to the highest
level in almost two months against its U.S. counterpart,
advancing for a fifth week, as crude oil and other commodities
rallied amid a surge in investors’ appetite for riskier assets.  The Canadian dollar gained for a second day as data showed
China’s manufacturing expanded at the fastest pace in four
months, U.S. consumer spending rose and American consumer
confidence declined less than expected. The currency fell
earlier after a speech yesterday by the central bank governor
spurred speculation interest rates won’t rise further this year.  “Oil’s up above $81, and we’re finally seeing some demand
for the Canadian dollar,” said  Blake Jespersen , a currency
strategist at Bank of Montreal’s BMO Capital unit. “It’s risk-
on across the board.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, appreciated 0.9 percent to
C$1.0205 per dollar at 4:41 p.m. in New York, from C$1.0292
yesterday. It touched C$1.0188, the strongest level since Aug.
6. The loonie strengthened 0.3 percent for the past five days,
capping the longest streak of weekly gains since the period
ended May 8, 2009. One Canadian dollar buys 97.99 U.S. cents.  Crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, rose to a seven-week
high after Chinese and U.S. economic data bolstered optimism
demand is growing in the world’s two largest consumers of the
fuel. Crude for November delivery climbed as much as 2.2 percent
to $81.74 a barrel in New York, the highest price since Aug. 9,
before trading at $81.69.  Gold, Copper Gain  Gold futures for December delivery rose to a record $1,322
an ounce in New York. Copper for December delivery jumped to a
26-month high, touching $3.722 a pound. Raw materials account
for half of Canada’s export revenue.  U.S. stocks gained, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
rising 0.4 percent.  A report from China’s logistics federation and statistics
bureau showing the purchasing managers’ index rose to 53.8 last
month from 51.7 in August pushed commodities up and the U.S.
dollar down.  “China’s PMI has reassured those who were concerned over
the global growth outlook,”  Camilla Sutton , director of
currency strategy in Toronto at Bank of Nova Scotia’s Scotia
Capital unit, wrote in an e-mail, “thereby helping to push oil
prices higher and by default the Canadian dollar has
benefited.”  U.S. consumer purchases rose 0.4 percent in August for a
second month, Commerce Department figures showed today, versus a
0.3 percent gain forecast by economists in a Bloomberg News
survey. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index
of U.S. consumer sentiment slipped to 68.2 in September,
compared with a drop to 67 forecast in another Bloomberg survey.  Carney Speech  The loonie earlier fell to the weakest level versus the
euro in more than six months after Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  signaled in a speech yesterday he’s likely to delay
raising interest rates further. Canada’s dollar touched C$1.4144
per euro, the weakest since March 4, before trading at C$1.4047.  Economic growth has slowed more than expected and “the
unusual uncertainty surrounding the outlook warrants caution,”
Carney said in Windsor, Ontario. He may keep  interest rates 
unchanged as long as his U.S. counterparts contemplate
additional monetary stimulus to spur the economy in Canada’s
biggest trading partner.  Three Boosts  The Bank of Canada, which meets next on Oct. 19, raised the
key interest rate three times since June, increasing it to 1
percent from a record low 0.25 percent. The U.S. Federal Reserve
has kept its  benchmark  at a range of zero to 0.25 percent since
December 2008. It said on Sept. 21 it’s “prepared to provide
additional accommodation” to stimulate the economy.  “Carney’s comments have triggered some Canadian-dollar
weakness on the crosses,”  George Davis , chief technical analyst
at the Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital Markets unit, wrote
via e-mail, referring to trades involving currencies other than
the greenback.  Longer-term Canadian government bonds fell, pushing the
yield on benchmark 10-year notes up 4 basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 2.8 percent. The price of the 3.5 percent
security due in June 2020 dropped 30 cents to C$105.97.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  