-- Canadian Pipelines Expand Storage in Alberta as Oil Output Poised to Grow
-- B y   A a r o n   C l a r k
-- 2010-10-01T15:28:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/canadian-pipelines-expand-storage-in-alberta-as-oil-output-poised-to-grow.html
Canadian pipeline operators are
expanding their storage in Alberta to handle an increase in
crude oil flowing from the region’s tar sands operations and new
pipelines that will ship the oil to U.S. markets.  TransCanada Corp.  plans to add more than 1 million barrels
of storage at Hardisty, Alberta, after its Keystone XL pipeline
receives final regulatory approval.  Enbridge Inc.  said yesterday
it will expand its Edmonton capacity by 1 million barrels to
handle rising Alberta output. Kinder Morgan Energy Partners LP
has “longer-term tankage expansion plans” at its Edmonton,
Hardisty and Burnaby terminals.  “Demand for tankage is, and remains strong” from
producers, traders and refiners, Andrew Galarnyk, a spokesman
for Kinder Morgan, said in an e-mail. The Houston-based company
operates 6 million barrels of operational storage in Canada and
2 million barrels of merchant storage, which is leased to
customers, according to Galarnyk.  Storage is growing as pipeline capacity between the U.S.
and its largest supplier of crude increases. TransCanada’s
435,000-barrel-a-day Keystone pipeline and Enbridge’s 450,000-
barrel-a-day Alberta Clipper pipe, which will both ship Canadian
oil to U.S. Midwest refiners, are scheduled to, or have already
completed line-fill this year.  Canadian crude production is expected rise 21 percent to
3.29 million barrels a day in 2015 from 2.72 million in 2009,
according to a June  forecast  from the Canadian Association of
Petroleum Producers.  Crude oil storage capacity in Canada is expected to grow
3.3 percent to about 49.2 million barrels in 2013 from 47.7 in
2009, according to GlobalData, a London-based company that
publishes industry reports.  Storage to Limit Discounts  The  discount  for Western Canada Select, a high-density,
high-sulfur crude from Alberta, more than doubled to $31 a
barrel versus benchmark West Texas Intermediate in mid-September
from the end of July, as storage filled up after Enbridge Energy
Partners LP shut two lines that ship the oil to U.S. Midwest
refineries. Plants operated by BP Plc and United Refining Co.
were forced to cut output due to the supply disruption.  “Additional storage capacity might limit some of the sour
discounts that have recently occurred when the logistics system
was unable to transport crude oil into the Midwest markets,”
said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in
Houston.  Edmonton Expansion  Enbridge’s Edmonton expansion, which will add four tanks,
pipelines and other infrastructure, will be completed in the
fourth quarter of 2012, the company said Sept. 29 in a
statement.  “These additional tanks will help ensure the necessary
infrastructure is in place to accommodate increased oil volumes
anticipated in 2012,”  Stephen J. Wuori , an executive vice
president at Enbridge, said in the statement.  Late last year Enbridge finished building 7.5 million
barrels of aboveground storage in Hardisty. The tanks supplement
3 million barrels of salt caverns the company operates,
according to the company’s  website .  TransCanada’s U.S. Gulf Coast expansion of its Keystone XL
pipeline will be operational by early 2013 if regulatory
approvals are completed, Ken Murchie, TransCanada’s director of
pipeline development said earlier this month. The XL extension
will extend from Cushing to Nederland, Texas, linking refineries
on the U.S. Gulf Coast and Canada’s oil sands.  TransCanada’s Marketlink project, which would link oil
storage tanks at Cushing, Oklahoma with Gulf Coast refiners,
includes an additional 700,000 barrels of storage at the
physical delivery point for NYMEX futures. The project would
increase TransCanada’s Cushing-area storage to 2.3 million
barrels.  “The demand for oil storage at Cushing is related to many
factors and not solely a result of increased imports of Canadian
crude,” said Cunha. “Other factors include forward market
dynamics, ex-Cushing pipelines, and short-term supply-demand
balances and upsets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Clark  in New York at 
 aclark27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  