-- U.S. Carmaker Fuel Goals May Hit 62 Miles Per Gallon by 2025, Groups Say
-- B y   J o h n   H u g h e s
-- 2010-10-01T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/carmaker-fuel-goals-in-u-s-may-hit-62-mpg-by-2025-groups-say.html
Carmakers may be required to almost
double the fuel economy of their vehicles in the U.S. to 62
miles per gallon by 2025 under a proposal being weighed by the
Obama administration, according to environmentalists.  The administration may announce as soon as today a goal to
raise fuel economy 3 percent to 6 percent a year starting with
2017 models, according to  Dan Becker  of the Safe Climate
Campaign, who said in an interview he had knowledge of the
administration deliberations. That would push the level to 62
mpg, according to Becker and  Roland Hwang  of the Natural
Resources Defense Council.  Environmentalists are pressing for more aggressive fuel-
economy targets after President  Barack Obama  in a rule last
April required automakers to meet 5 percent annual increases,
building to 35.5 mpg for 2016 models. In May, Obama ordered his
administration to release a time line and potential targets for
2017-2025 models.  “It should be 6 percent because that is consistent with
the best technology,” Becker, director of Washington-based Safe
Climate and former head of the Sierra Club’s global-warming
program, said in the interview yesterday. “It’s auto mechanics.
It can be done and has to be done.”  Olivia Alair , a Transportation Department spokeswoman,
declined to comment on potential mileage targets. The department
includes the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration,
which helps craft the mileage standard.  Representatives of the Alliance of Automobile
Manufacturers, the Washington trade group for companies
including  General Motors Co. , Chrysler Group LLC and  Ford Motor
Co. , declined to speculate on the targets the administration may
announce.  Challenges, Costs  “We’re hopeful that the notice recognizes the challenges
and the cost associated with introducing advance-technology
vehicles,” said  Charles Territo , the alliance spokesman. “It
is important that manufacturers have the necessary lead times
needed to implement new technologies at an affordable cost.”  By releasing a target range, the administration would
signal its plans for fuel-economy targets, while crafting of a
final rule with specific goals for light vehicles is still
months away.  The Natural Resources Defense Council, based in New York,
has conducted an analysis showing a 60 mpg standard can be set
with a U.S. vehicle fleet that is 55 percent hybrids, 15 percent
plug-in electrics and 30 percent advanced-gasoline cars, said
Hwang, the group’s transportation program director.  “There’s pretty much a widespread expectation that the
proposal will include a range of 3 to 6 percent,” Hwang said.
“Our own analysis shows the higher end is achievable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Hughes  in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 