-- Carney Signals `Caution' on Canada Rate Increases While Fed Mulls Easing
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2010-10-01T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/carney-signals-caution-on-canada-rate-increases-while-fed-mulls-easing.html
Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney ,
who yesterday said economic growth has slowed more than he
expected, may keep interest rates unchanged as long as his U.S.
counterparts contemplate additional monetary stimulus.  “The unusual uncertainty surrounding the outlook warrants
caution,” Carney, 45, said in Windsor, Ontario. “Any further
reduction in monetary stimulus would need to be carefully
considered” given risks of a renewed U.S. slowdown and
cooling consumer spending in Canada.  The Bank of Canada may be wary of breaking away from the
world’s major central banks on policy, even though the country
is benefiting from rising demand global for commodities such as
oil. The Bank of England last week signaled policy makers are
moving closer to adding stimulus, and the Federal Reserve said
Sept. 21 it’s prepared to further ease monetary policy if needed
to support the recover.  “It’s a bit unseemly to hike through a phase of
quantitative easing debate in the U.S.,” said  Eric Lascelles ,
chief economics and rates strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s
TD Securities unit, referring to a possible resumption of large-
scale asset purchases. He said Carney’s speech was
“riddled with dovish comments.”  Carney is alone among Group of Seven central bankers to
raise interest rates this year. The bank “would be reluctant to
go in the opposite direction” of the Fed, said Lascelles, who
expects a pause to last until March. “The cost of waiting is
low.”  Limits to Divergence  “While Canada’s circumstances and the discipline of the
inflation target dictate a different policy stance than in the
United States, there are limits to this divergence,” Carney
said in his speech. The Bank of Canada has a 2 percent  inflation 
target.  Carney is “telling market participants that your
expectations for very low probability of us raising rates is
correct,”  Michael Gregory , a senior economist at BMO Capital
Markets in Toronto, said in a telephone interview.  Canada’s economy can be expected to grow at a “modest
pace” because of the effects of higher household debt levels
and a slower global recovery, Carney said.  Growth is “more modest than we had expected and it will be
more modest in the third and fourth quarters,” Carney told
reporters following the speech, adding the bank “will put a
finer point on that on Oct. 20 when we release our upcoming
forecast,” referring to the next  monetary policy report .  Paring Bets  The bank raised its policy  interest rate  a quarter point to
1 percent on Sept. 8, the third increase this year, and
investors had been pricing in a strong likelihood as recently as
two weeks ago of another rate increase this month. The bank’s
next rate announcement is Oct. 19.  The chance of a quarter-point increase at the October
meeting stood at 18 percent yesterday before the speech, down
from 20 percent the day before and 40 percent two weeks ago,
according to Bank of Nova Scotia data derived from overnight
index swaps.  While Carney said the need for emergency measures has
passed, “exceptionally stimulative” monetary policy is
consistent with achieving the  inflation  target, he said, adding
inflation has been “slightly lower” than expected.  The rate on the three-month overnight index  swap , which
measures what investors predict the central bank’s benchmark
will average over time, fell 1.1 percentage points to 1.06
percent after the speech. The Canadian dollar pared gains,
trading at C$1.0289 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto, from
C$1.0326 on Sept. 29.  Trade Deficit  Canadian  retail , wholesale and manufacturing sales all
unexpectedly fell in July, and the country’s trade deficit
widened to the biggest gap since at least 1971. Earlier
yesterday, Statistics Canada reported the economy shrank 0.1
percent in July, the first decline in 11 months, matching the
median forecast of 22 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  yesterday scaled
back plans to withdraw stimulus by limiting proposed increases
to payroll taxes amid signs of a slowing recovery. Carney said
that will help to create jobs.  Carney said Canada’s economy won’t be able to rely as much
on housing and personal consumption because of rising household
debt levels. He said the rebound in the  labor market , which has
returned employment to pre-recession levels, has been led by
public-sector jobs and “involuntary part-time” work.  “Although employment has regained its pre-recession level,
hours worked have not,” he said.  Carney also said returning to a “durable” global recovery
could take a decade. That could keep global interest rates
“very low” and prompt central banks in some major economies to
expand unconventional monetary policies.  Carney said that since interest rates may need to remain
low, other Canadian authorities should remain “vigilant” to
ensure “financial imbalances” aren’t created.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Theophilos Argitis  in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 