-- McDonald's `Mini-Med' Health Plans Probed by Senate
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2010-10-01T20:13:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/mcdonald-s-bcs-health-care-plans-probed-by-rockefeller.html
Senator  Jay Rockefeller  opened a
probe into the limited benefit “mini-med” plans that
 McDonald’s Corp. , the world’s largest restaurant chain, offers
employees.  Rockefeller, a West Virginia Democrat, asked  Scott Beacham ,
chief executive officer of  BCS Financial Corp ., whether the
company’s health offerings amount to a good deal for many of
McDonald’s low-wage and hourly employees. Closely held BCS
Financial, based in Oakbrook Terrace, Illinois, offers limited-
benefit plans that cover 30,000 employees of  McDonald’s , based
about a mile away in Oak Brook, Illinois.  Mini-med programs are designed to offer a low-cost way to
cover part-time employees with limited benefits. McDonald’s told
the Obama administration it may re-evaluate the plans if it
can’t get a waiver from new rules governing insurance products.
The company said yesterday it will keep offering coverage, and
the government has waived some of the new rules.  “The products BCS is selling to McDonald’s employees are
not likely to protect them against the costs of a major health
care episode,” Rockefeller said in his letter. “If this is the
case, McDonald’s hourly wage workers are setting aside portions
of their paychecks for an insurance product that may not be
providing them a good value.”  Companies are seeking exemptions from two mandates of the
health overhaul signed by President  Barack Obama  in March. One
requires plans to spend at least 80 percent of member premiums
on medical care. The other bans companies from capping yearly
coverage for each worker.  Low-Wage Employees  The plans are helpful for companies with workforces that
don’t make enough to afford coverage, or for which it might be
prohibitively expensive to insure, said  Daryl Richard , a
spokesman for the Minnetonka, Minnesota-based  UnitedHealth Group 
Inc., which offers limited benefit plans to about a dozen
companies.  In his letter, Rockefeller asked BCS to provide information
on how much of employee premiums actually go toward providing
medical care. He also wants to know what limits the plans put on
coverage, information about how extensively McDonald’s employees
use the plans, and how the company sells the products to the
McDonald’s workers. BCS has ties to Blue Cross & Blue Shield
insurance plans, through members of its board, according to its
website.  McDonald’s  shares  rose 41 cents, or less than a percent, to
$74.92 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
The shares have climbed 32 percent in 12 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Drew Armstrong  in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 