-- CFTC Proposes Capping Bank Stakes in Clearinghouses
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2010-10-01T19:31:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/cftc-proposes-20-bank-ownership-caps-on-swaps-clearinghouses.html
Banks and major swaps users would be
limited to owning no more than 20 percent of derivatives
clearinghouses, exchanges and trading systems, under a
preliminary proposal approved by the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission.  The CFTC voted to issue the initial rules at a hearing in
Washington today, its first effort to govern the $615 trillion
over-the-counter derivatives market. The vote triggers a public
comment period that may result in changes to the plan. For
clearinghouses only, the commission called for capping
collective stakes of bank holding companies, non-bank financial
firms, major swaps users or dealers at 40 percent. Those
entities are known as restricted owners.  The CFTC is addressing potential conflicts of interest
involving how banks and major swaps users may favor a
clearinghouse they own over competitors. An ownership cap
“limits the influence that certain shareholders may exert
over” clearinghouses, exchanges and trading systems, the CFTC
said.  The commissioners voted four-to-one to pass the ownership
caps.  Jill Sommers  was against the measure.  “This is the one that has had the most debate amongst the
five of us,” CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  said at the hearing.  Sommers Concerns  Limiting ownership is “not appropriate” and “may do more
harm than good,” Sommers said. The proposal “may stifle
competition” by making it more difficult for new
clearinghouses, exchanges or swap-execution facilities to be
created, she said.  Companies that may be affected by the ownership cap on
clearinghouses, also referred to as designated clearing
organizations, or DCOs, include LCH.Clearnet Ltd. and Tradeweb
Markets LLC.  “Failure to achieve a level playing field for DCOs runs
the danger of forming a combined execution and clearing
monopoly, stifling innovation and competition,” Tradeweb said
in an e-mailed statement.  U.S. lawmakers sought to regulate swaps through the Dodd-
Frank bill passed in July after the trades complicated efforts
to solve the financial crisis. In most cases regulators have
until July 2011 to write the new guidelines, which mandate that
most interest-rate, credit-default and other swaps be processed
by clearinghouses after being traded on exchanges or swap-
execution facilities.  Sharing Risk  Clearinghouses , which are capitalized by their members,
increase stability in OTC derivatives markets because they
lessen the effect of a default by sharing risk among the
members. They also use daily margining procedures to keep
accounts current and allow regulators to see market positions
and prices.  The text of the proposed rules is expected to be released
later today.  A second ownership option approved by the CFTC for
clearinghouses will have no limits on the combined stake of
restricted owners if none of their individual holdings exceeded
5 percent. If any restricted owner stake exceeds 5 percent, the
40 percent cumulative caps will kick in, the CFTC said.  The proposed rules don’t exempt existing clearinghouses
from the caps, though they do allow for companies to apply to
the CFTC for a waiver on the new rules.  The ownership caps only apply to stakes that come with the
right to vote on corporate matters.  Qualified Board Members  Representative  Stephen Lynch , a Massachusetts Democrat,
proposed a similar plan last year. The effort was opposed by the
Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association and the
International Swaps and Derivatives Association, two banking
groups, as well as by the Futures Industry Association, Wall
Street’s industry group for exchange-traded derivatives.  The new regulations include specific requirements for the
composition of boards of directors, risk management committees
and regulatory oversight committees, the CFTC said.  Swap-execution facilities must have a regulatory oversight
committee entirely comprised of public directors under the
proposed rules, said Nancy Schnabel, an attorney-advisor in the
CFTC’s division of clearing and intermediary oversight.  Commissioner  Michael Dunn  said he was concerned that there
may not be enough qualified people to act as public directors,
who have no ties to the company on whose board they preside.  “Will there be a large enough pool out there to ensure we
get the people with the experience needed to make the
recommendations to the boards?” he asked.  Initial Rules  The CFTC passed initial rules for the financial resources
of clearinghouses determined by Financial Stability Oversight
Council to be systemically important to the U.S. economy. Such a
clearinghouse will have to have the capital to withstand the
default of its two largest members, the CFTC proposed.  A clearinghouse not deemed systemically important will have
to have reserves to meet its obligations if its single largest
member defaults, the CFTC said.  London’s LCH.Clearnet owns the world’s largest interest-
rate swap clearinghouse and is majority-held by banks. Tradeweb,
a derivatives trading platform, is a partnership between Thomson
Reuters Corp. and banks including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. Bloomberg LP, parent of Bloomberg News,
competes with Thomson Reuters in selling financial and legal
information and trading systems.  “Tradeweb is in favor of independent directors, but at
this stage it is unclear what their role will be,” the New
York-based company said in the statement. “For outside board
members to be effective, their interests need to be aligned with
investors and other stakeholders.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Leising  in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  