-- Chile Retailers Cencosud, Falabella Gain After Celfin Capital Says `Buy'
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2010-10-01T19:02:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/chile-retailers-cencosud-falabella-gain-after-celfin-capital-says-buy-.html
Cencosud SA  and  SACI Falabella ,
Chile’s largest retailers by sales and market value,
respectively, rose today after Santiago-based brokerage Celfin
Capital SA recommended buying both stocks.  Cencosud rose 1.5 percent to 3,315 pesos at 2:53 p.m. New
York time, after rising as much as 2.3 percent, its sixth
straight day of gains. Falabella gained 1.2 percent to 4,799
pesos, after a 2.3 percent increase. The  IPSA Index  rose 0.2
percent to 4,803.50.  Celfin Capital raised its rating for Cencosud to “buy”
from “hold” and set a year-end 2011 price estimate of 3,800
pesos, citing higher consumption growth, stronger-than-expected
efficiency gains and an “aggressive” expansion plan in Latin
America, analysts  Barbara Angerstein  and  Gustavo Fingeret  wrote
in an e-mailed note to clients.  Cencosud is trading at the higher end of its historical
five-year average price-to-earnings, “but we believe the
premium is justified by Cencosud’s growth opportunities and
Chilean companies’ lower cost of capital,” the analysts wrote.
Cencosud operates shopping malls, supermarkets, department
stores and home improvement stores in Argentina, Chile, Peru and
Colombia.  Falabella was maintained at “buy” with a year-end 2011
price estimate of 5,622 pesos, citing that economic figures in
the countries where it operates will continue to positively
surprise investors, Angerstein and Fingeret wrote in a separate
report.  “Falabella is the best way to play the consumption
momentum of the Andean markets,” the analysts wrote, as the
company, besides Chile, has operations in Peru, Argentina and
Colombia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eduardo Thomson  in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net . 