-- Chile to Rescue Miners This Month, Minister Says
-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e
-- 2010-10-01T21:06:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/chile-rescuers-to-reach-33-trapped-miners-this-month-mining-minister-says.html
Chile will rescue the 33 miners
trapped in an underground copper mine by the end of October, two
months earlier than previously expected, Mining Minister
 Laurence Golborne  said.  The miners will be lifted to the surface in rescue capsules
from tunnels 700 meters (2,300 feet) underground in the second
half of October, Golborne said today in comments broadcast by
Chilean TV channel  TVN .  “Some things are advancing faster than we thought,”
Golborne said at the mine site in the Atacama Desert.  Rescuers have drilled 566 meters underground in the first
of three boreholes, the government said in an e-mailed statement
today. A second drill has reached a depth of 372 meters, while a
third oil drill has cut 175 meters deep, the statement said.  The workers have been trapped since an Aug. 5 cave-in
blocked access to the mine. Chilean President  Sebastian Pinera 
said last month that the men would be home by Christmas.  San Jose is the longest-ever mine rescue effort, surpassing
the 25 days that two Chinese workers spent in an underground
mine in 2009.  BHP, Freeport  Melbourne-based  BHP Billiton Ltd.  and Phoenix-based
 Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.,  which also mine for copper
in Chile, are part of the rescue team. Chile provides a third of
the world’s copper.  The miners are beginning to send some of their belongings
to the surface through smaller holes that are being used to send
them food and water, TVN said. The miners are also shoveling
dirt that falls from the holes being cut to rescue them, it
said.  Real Madrid, the European soccer team that holds a record
nine championship titles, invited the miners to watch a match at
its stadium and gave them replica shirts signed by stars Ronaldo
and Kaka, the government said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Craze  in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  