-- China Supports Stable Euro, Won't Reduce European Bond Holdings, Wen Says
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 2010-10-03T13:22:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/china-s-wen-visits-greece-to-sign-cooperation-deals-show-confidence-in-eu.html
China supports a stable euro and
won’t reduce its holdings of European bonds, underlining its
strengthening ties with the European Union, Premier  Wen Jiabao 
told Greek lawmakers in Athens.  “From the outbreak of the sovereign debt crisis in certain
European countries at the start of this year, I have repeatedly
voiced China’s support of measures adopted by the European Union
and International Monetary Fund,” said Wen, who began a tour of
European capitals yesterday. “China supports a steady euro and
it will not be reducing its European bond holdings.”  The development of relations between the EU and China is
“truly to the benefit of both,” Wen said. “We are passengers
in the same boat.” The premier said he hopes to improve the
domestic investment climate in China and hopes the EU eases
restrictions on high-tech exports and rejects protectionism.  Wen, who next travels to Belgium, Italy and Turkey, said
yesterday that China plans to buy Greek bonds once Greece begins
tapping international markets for funding again. China will
support the country’s shipping industry, as Greece seeks
investment to boost growth and emerge from a second year of
recession, Wen said.  Greece received a 110 billion-euro ($151 billion) bailout
from the EU and IMF in May to avoid default. The country plans
to issue new bonds in 2011 after implementing austerity measures
to reduce the EU’s second-biggest budget gap.  Emerging From Crisis  Wen said he believes Greece is emerging from the crisis,
with markets stabilizing and investor confidence returning. He
said he’s confident Greece will return to growth. The Greek
government forecasts that the economy will shrink 4 percent this
year and 2.6 percent in 2011.  Ties between China and Greece are “an example of
continually strengthening relations between China and the
European Union,” Wen said. His comments, made in Chinese, were
translated into Greek and broadcast live on state-run Vouli TV.
Wen is the first Chinese premier to visit Greece in 24 years.  Separately, Wen said the global financial crisis has shown
the need for China to focus on “structural problems” in its
economy, including steps to encourage domestic demand.  “We can rely on stimulating domestic demand to stabilize
and further grow the Chinese economy,” Wen said in an interview
with CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS” program taped Sept. 23 in New
York and scheduled for broadcast today. In the interview, Wen,
68, said he’s concerned China’s stability may be threatened by
inflation and corruption and that he remains committed to
pressing for changes in the country’s political system.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Maria Petrakis  at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net 
 Natalie Weeks  in Athens 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  