-- ChinaCache Jumps 95% for Biggest U.S. IPO Rally in Three Years
-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 2010-10-02T04:00:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/chinacache-sells-u-s-initial-offering-above-range-after-china-adrs-rally.html
ChinaCache International Holdings
Ltd.  posted the biggest first-day gain for a U.S. initial public
offering in three years, the latest Chinese company to rally
after selling shares in New York.  The provider of Internet content to businesses and
government agencies rose  95 percent  to $27.15 after selling 6.1
million American depositary receipts for $13.90 each, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Beijing-based ChinaCache, which
delayed the IPO for a day, raised $84 million after boosting the
deal from 5.5 million ADRs.  The offering came after the number of Internet users in
China, the world’s fastest growing major economy, surpassed the
entire American population. While Liberty Mutual Agency Corp.
this week postponed the biggest U.S. IPO of 2010, China’s  SouFun
Holdings Ltd.  and  Country Style Cooking Restaurant Chain Co. 
have both rallied more than 50 percent since completing initial
sales in New York in September.  “You sort of get one hot China Internet play that worked,
and then you get investors looking for more deals like that,”
said  Timothy Cunningham , a manager at Santa Fe, New Mexico-based
Thornburg Investment Management, which had $56 billion in assets
as of June 30. “If there’s any sort of concern or worry or
hiccup about the business, nobody wants to touch it at all.”  Growth Potential  ChinaCache, which serves customers from Beijing-based  China
Mobile Ltd.  to Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. in Hangzhou, China,
will use the proceeds to finance research and development, fund
capital expenditures and for possible acquisitions.  ChinaCache’s shares were sold above the offer range of $10
to $12 a share. Charlotte, North Carolina-based  Bank of America
Corp.  and Deutsche Bank AG of Frankfurt led the offering.  The company’s 95 percent first-day climb was the biggest on
a U.S. exchange since  Athenahealth Inc.  of Watertown,
Massachusetts, jumped 97 percent after completing its IPO in
September 2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It clearly shows the recognition by the investors in the
great potential for growth in the Chinese market,” ChinaCache’s
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Wang Song said in a
telephone interview. The IPO pricing “exceeded our expectation.
It was a good surprise,” he said.  China had an estimated 420 million Internet users at the
end of June, an increase of 36 million from six months earlier,
according to data from the government-sponsored China Internet
Network Information Center. The U.S. population is about 310
million, according to the Census Bureau’s website, while about
231 million Americans have access to the Internet, according to
the Washington-based  World Bank .  Chinese IPOs  Before ChinaCache’s debut, companies from China accounted
for six of the 10 best performing U.S. IPOs this year, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  SouFun, the Beijing-based operator of China’s largest
property website, posted the third-biggest first-day gain for a
U.S. IPO, surging 73 percent on Sept. 17.  Country Style Cooking
Restaurant , a fast-food outlet operator located in Chongqing,
has climbed  76 percent  in four days after raising 18 percent
more than initially sought for its IPO.  China Ming Yang Wind Power Group Ltd. , a Guangdong, China-
based maker of wind turbines, raised $350 million selling 25
million ADRs at $14, the low end of its forecast range,
according to a statement yesterday. The shares retreated  5.4
percent  to $13.25 in New York Stock Exchange trading.  “The listing in the U.S. is part of our international
strategy and this is the best timing as far as the company is
concerned,” China Ming Yang Chairman and CEO Zhang Chuanwei
said in a telephone interview. “We are very happy it is listed
as planned, on target.”  KEYW, Liberty Mutual  KEYW Holding Corp., the Hanover, Maryland-based company
that helps U.S. government agencies collect and process
intelligence data, raised $91 million selling shares at the
bottom of its forecast range. The stock climbed 14 percent to
$11.38 yesterday in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  Liberty Mutual Agency , the second-largest writer of
property and casualty insurance distributed through independent
agencies in the U.S., was seeking $1.3 billion for its IPO this
week. The Boston-based company’s parent Liberty Mutual Holding
Co. cited an “unfavorable environment” for receiving
appropriate value as it pulled the deal.  At least 47 companies have shelved or withdrawn U.S.
initial sales valued at $11.47 billion this year, the highest
amount since 2001, amid concern the recovery from the longest
recession since the Great Depression is deteriorating.  Ellington Returns  Ellington Financial LLC, which postponed a $208 million IPO
in December, said in a Securities and Exchange Commission filing
this week it will seek to sell 4.5 million shares at $22 to $24
each. The Old Greenwich, Connecticut-based company is run by the
hedge-fund firm of  Michael Vranos , the former head of mortgage-
securities trading at Kidder Peabody & Co.  Six companies are scheduled to raise a combined $1.2
billion through IPOs in the U.S. next week, Bloomberg data show.  Campus Crest Communities Inc.  is planning to sell $411
million of shares in what would be the biggest IPO of the week.
The Charlotte, North Carolina-based student housing developer’s
IPO was originally scheduled for earlier this week.  U.S. Federal Properties Trust Inc. of Kansas City,
Missouri, a real estate company formed to lease properties to
the government, plans to raise $289 million on Oct. 4.  Two Chinese companies are among the six seeking capital
through initial offerings.  Daqo New Energy Corp. , the Chongqing,
China-based maker of polysilicon materials for solar panels,
plans to sell $100 million in shares, while Beijing-based Global
Education & Technology Group Ltd., which provides tutoring and
test-preparation services, is attempting to raise $67 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cecile Vannucci  in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 