-- Chinese Manufacturing Growth Accelerates, Survey Shows
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-01T03:06:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/china-manufacturing-accelerates-more-than-forecast-as-expansion-rebounds.html
China’s  manufacturing  expanded at the
fastest pace in four months in September, adding to signs that
economic growth is stabilizing even as the government curbs
energy use and tries to cool the property market.  The purchasing managers’ index rose to 53.8 from 51.7 in
August, China’s logistics federation and statistics bureau said
in an e-mail. The median forecast of 15 economists  surveyed  by
Bloomberg News was 52.5, with none forecasting such a large gain.
Readings above 50 indicate expansions.  The data reinforce evidence from a separate purchasing
manager survey two days ago that China’s industries are gearing
up again after the economy slowed in the second quarter. Bank of
America-Merrill Lynch said that officials may accelerate gains
by the yuan as domestic demand strengthens and the U.S.
maintains pressure for a stronger currency.  “Today’s better than expected PMI number suggests that
China’s economy has regained strength on a strong pick up in
domestic orders and a steady increase in external demand,” said
 Liu Li-Gang , a Hong Kong-based economist at Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd.  Copper climbed to a 26-month high on the manufacturing data
and a weaker dollar. Asian stocks rose. Chinese markets are
closed for a holiday.  The manufacturing index released this week by  HSBC Holdings
and Markit Economics  rose to the highest in five months. The
nation’s growth may be aided in coming months by government
plans to speed the completion of stimulus projects and boost
public housing construction.  Limited Slowdown  In today’s data, an output index rose to 56.4 from 53.1 in
August. A measure of new orders gained to 56.3 from 53.1 and an
export-order index climbed to 52.8 from 52.2.  Economic growth “has stabilized after falling from a high
level” and the nation’s slowdown will be limited by continued
gains in consumption, investment and exports,  Zhang Liqun , a
researcher at the Development Research Center of the State
Council, said in today’s statement.  “Supposedly seasonally adjusted,” the PMI typically
climbs in September when exporters are filling Christmas orders,
Capital Economics Ltd. said this week. Credit Suisse AG and Bank
of America-Merrill Lynch also said today that seasonal factors
may have played a role.  Inflation Pressure  An input price index rose to 65.3 from 60.5, the biggest
jump among sub-indexes, as raw-material costs climbed. China
needs to raise interest rates and allow a stronger yuan to
contain inflation and asset-bubble risks, according to ANZ’s Liu.
The Chinese currency has gained 2 percent since a peg to the
dollar was scrapped on June 19.  An interest-rate increase could come as early as the
current holiday, which runs through to Oct. 7, Liu said. In
contrast, Merrill said in a note that a move is very unlikely
this year.  The PMI’s rebound suggests Chinese businesses have
recovered confidence lost because of Europe’s debt crisis and
property tightening measures, said  Lu Ting , a Hong Kong-based
economist for Merrill. So far, real-estate restrictions have had
a limited impact on developers’ construction activity, he added.  On Sept. 29, China’s government added to curbs by
tightening down-payment rules for first homes, suspending third-
home loans and pledging to quicken a trial of a property tax. In
a separate campaign, officials are shuttering factories to meet
energy-reduction and pollution targets.  In contrast to measures cooling growth, China’s top
economic planner, the  National Development and Reform Commission ,
last month urged the speedy completion of projects under a two-
year stimulus plan that ends this year.  Fourth-Quarter Outlook  Economic growth moderated to 10.3 percent in the second
quarter from 11.9 percent in the previous three months. The pace
may slow to 8.7 percent in the fourth quarter, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  China’s benchmark  Shanghai Composite index  gained 11
percent last quarter after tumbling 27 percent in the first half
of the year on concern that Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s effort to
counter asset bubbles would hurt the economy.  Gains in domestic consumption, including auto sales, are
supporting manufacturing, with carmakers including PSA Peugeot
Citroen, Toyota Motor Corp. and Nissan Motor Co. boosting
capacity or planning new models. Rebounding property sales since
August have aided developers including  Soho China Ltd. , which
said Sept. 27 it reached a full-year sales target ahead of
schedule.  Still, areas of weakness remain. Today’s data showed
contractions in output in the metal product and textile
industries.  The PMI, released this week by the Beijing-based China
Federation of Logistics and Purchasing and the National Bureau
of Statistics, covers more than 820 companies in 20 industries,
including energy, metallurgy, textiles, automobiles and
electronics.  --  Li Yanping . With assistance from  Sophie Leung  in Hong Kong
and  Jay Wang  in Singapore. Editors:  Paul Panckhurst ,  Ken McCallum .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Li Yanping  in Beijing at 
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  