-- Clover Industries Will Decide on Possible Johannesburg Listing by Year-End
-- B y   N i c k y   S m i t h
-- 2010-10-01T14:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/clover-industries-will-decide-on-possible-johannesburg-listing-by-year-end.html
Clover Industries Ltd. , South
Africa’s biggest dairy company, will make a decision on whether
to sell shares in Johannesburg in an initial public offering to
raise funds for expansion by the end of the year.  “Food security is becoming an increasingly important
issue,” Johann Vorster, the chief executive officer of the
company, said in an interview from Johannesburg today. A listing
“creates all kinds of interesting options.”  In the past year, Johannesburg-based Clover sold its 45
percent stake in  Danone  Clover, a venture it had with Groupe
Danone SA, for 1.08 billion rand ($155 million) and changed its
articles of association to allow for a greater diversity of
shareholders, a group previously mainly reserved for milk
producers.  Shaking off its “legacy issues” as producer-run
organization will be one of the “biggest challenges” that will
face the company once it goes public, Julian Wentzel, a consumer
industrial analyst with Macquarie First South Securities said in
an interview from Johannesburg today. “Clover is a household
name, but in terms of operating margins and the returns the
business makes, it does reflect that.”  A public offer will allow the company to raise funds upon
listing and in the future should it need to, Vorster said.
Currently Clover has 380 shareholders. Rand Merchant Bank has
been appointed to advise on a listing, he said.  Huge Aspirations  “Our aspirations are huge,” Vorster says. South Africans
consume about 6 kilograms (13.2 pounds) of milk a year and
Clover has plans to lift this to the levels in other emerging
market economies such as Mexico and Argentina where the average
consumption is about 13 kilograms, he said.  Clover is South Africa’s “largest mover of chilled
goods,” Vorster says, and provides transport services to
 Unilever  South Africa, a unit of Unilever Plc, and  Eskort South
Africa , one of the country’s largest pork producers.  A 350 million rand expansion is underway and will provide
capacity sufficient for the next five to seven years to support
the company’s current growth plans. Two milk processing plants
are being moved to South Africa’s coast, near dairy farms, and a
factory to produce Tropika, a drink of blended milk and fruit
juice, is being moved to Midrand, near Johannesburg, to cut
transport costs.  Clover has African expansion plans and already has
operations in Botswana. Tropika, which gives Clover an about 75
percent share of the South African market for this type of
product, is an example of the type of product that could be
introduced into West Africa, Vorster said.  “If you think about Nigeria, just their juice market is
bigger than the whole of South Africa’s dairy market,” he said.
“We think Tropika will go down well in West Africa.”  Earlier, in an advertisement in Johannesburg’s Business Day
newspaper, Clover said  net income fell  to 331 million rand in
the twelve months through August, from 528 million rand a year
earlier. Sales rose 8.6 percent to 5.9 billion rand.  The stock exchange in South Africa has no listed dairy
companies. Among Clover’s biggest competitors in South Africa
are  Parmalat SpA  and Dairybelle.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicky Smith  in Johannesburg at 
 nsmith38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  