-- McNabb-Vick Showdown Sparks 37% Surge in Philadelphia Eagles Ticket Prices
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-10-01T17:08:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/mcnabb-vick-showdown-sparks-37-surge-in-philadelphia-eagles-ticket-prices.html
Donovan McNabb  may have Philadelphia
fans more excited as a Washington Redskin than when he played
for the Eagles.  McNabb, 33, returns to Philadelphia this weekend after he
was traded to the Redskins in the offseason. The quarterback had
an 11-year career with the Eagles that included five trips to
the conference championship game and one to the  Super Bowl .  The average ticket price for the Oct. 3 game has jumped to
$250, almost 10 percent above the Eagles’ season average,
according to  FanSnap.com , a Palo Alto, California-based Internet
search engine that finds available seats on about 50 ticket-
reselling websites. Last season, the average price for the
Eagles-Redskins game at  Lincoln Financial Field  was $183.  “The return of McNabb is the hottest Eagles ticket of the
year,” FanSnap spokesman Christian Anderson said in a telephone
interview. “Bigger than when Dallas, Indy, Minnesota and any of
the others come to town. Eagles fans clearly want to be there
for McNabb’s homecoming.”  The game has become even more appealing because of the
resurgence of the Eagles’ current quarterback,  Michael Vick ,
said Joellen Ferrer, a spokeswoman for  EBay Inc. ’s StubHub
ticket reseller.  A former No. 1 draft pick of the Atlanta Falcons, Vick, 30,
has led the Eagles to consecutive wins since taking over as the
starting quarterback and has the second-highest passer rating
among qualified quarterbacks in the NFL behind Peyton Manning of
the Indianapolis Colts.  “With Vick as the Eagles’ starter, the interest level has
risen higher than anything we’ve seen for this matchup in our
company’s 10-year history,”  StubHub ’s Ferrer said by e-mail.  Booing McNabb  McNabb’s trade from Philadelphia ended an up-and-down
tenure that began with Eagles fans booing when he was drafted
second overall out of Syracuse University in 1999. He was
selected to the Pro Bowl six times and had a  92-49-1  record as a
starter, yet was often criticized by the city’s fans for failing
to win a Super Bowl.  McNabb said he hopes to hear some cheers but realizes many
fans probably won’t be happy that he’s now playing for a
National Football Conference East Division rival, even if it
wasn’t by choice.  “We had a lot of great times, great moments, exciting
plays and obviously some down times,” McNabb told reporters
after practice two days ago. “But there were more exciting
things that happened in 11 years. You just can’t forget about
that.”  Redskins’ Skid  McNabb and the Redskins have lost their last two games
after opening the season with a win against Dallas. The Eagles
began the season with  Kevin Kolb  as the starting quarterback and
a loss to the Green Bay Packers.  Vick, who was out of the NFL for two seasons and spent 18
months in prison for his involvement in a dogfighting ring, took
over when Kolb suffered a concussion in the opener and sparked a
second-half comeback that fell short. Coach  Andy Reid  later made
him the starting quarterback.  The Eagles have won two straight games behind Vick, who has
passed for 750 yards and six touchdowns while running for 170
yards and a score. He hasn’t thrown an interception this season.  ‘Showcase Talent’  “I’m happy Andy and the organization gave him the
opportunity to showcase his talents,” McNabb said of Vick.
“I’ve moved on and I’m focused on the job at hand.”  Vick is projected to have a better statistical performance
than McNabb this week, according to the Bloomberg Sports
Decision Maker analytical tool, which has Vick ranked eighth
among quarterbacks and McNabb 12th. The Decision Maker compares
players and who is likely to have a better game.  Las Vegas oddsmakers also side with Vick and the Eagles,
who are listed as six-point favorites to win their third
straight in the series.  “I think the world of Donovan,” Reid said. “He did
phenomenal things for this organization, and that’s not
forgotten. But at the same time, he wants to beat the Eagles.
And we want to beat the Redskins.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  