-- CNN Fires `Rick's List' Host Sanchez Over Racial Comments on Radio Program
-- B y   S a r a h   R a b i l
-- 2010-10-01T22:58:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/cnn-fires-rick-s-list-host-sanchez-over-remarks-on-radio-show.html
CNN fired afternoon anchor  Rick
Sanchez  after he called comedian  Jon Stewart  a “bigot” and
made racially charged remarks on a satellite radio show.  “Rick Sanchez is no longer with the company,” CNN, the
cable news network owned by  Time Warner Inc. , said today in an
e-mailed statement. “We thank Rick for his years of service and
we wish him well.”  The Havana-born Sanchez, speaking on Pete Dominick’s
satellite  radio show  yesterday, called the host of Comedy
Central’s “The Daily Show with Jon Stewart” a “bigot” and
said he is prejudiced against anyone who’s different. Sanchez
also said CNN and other networks are run by Jews and implied
that Jews, like Stewart, don’t know what it feels like to be
discriminated against the way he does as a Hispanic.  Sanchez , who took back the word “bigot” later in the
interview and instead described Stewart as “prejudiced,”
complained the Comedy Central host picks on him for on-air
mistakes such as mispronunciations. Clips of Sanchez’s  comments 
spread on the Internet today.  The network said it plans to air “CNN Newsroom” in the 3
p.m. to 5 p.m. slot Sanchez previously occupied.  Sanchez anchored CNN’s weekday show “Rick’s List” and was
also a contributor for CNN en Espanol, according to a network
bio. He joined the cable network six years ago and has reported
on events including the Sept. 11 terrorist attack in New York,
wars in Afghanistan and Nicaragua, and Hurricane Katrina. He
began his career in TV journalism in 1982 at WSVN-TV in Miami.  Programming Changes  Sanchez’s exit adds to recent problems at CNN, where
ratings have dropped 31 percent this year among 25-to-54-year-
old viewers in total day programming, according to data from
Nielsen Co.  Jon Klein  was replaced with HLN’s  Ken Jautz  as the
head of CNN U.S. a week ago.  Sanchez’s firing means another programming change for CNN,
which hired  Piers Morgan  to replace talk-show host  Larry King 
and started a new show with former New York Governor  Eliot Spitzer  and Pulitzer Prize-winning columnist  Kathleen Parker .  Time Warner, based in New York, fell 4 cents to $30.61 at
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading . The
stock has gained 5 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Rabil  in New York at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  