-- Cogent Asks Judge to Reject Investors’ Call for NEC Over 3M
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2010-10-02T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/cogent-defends-sale-to-3m-says-nec-offer-was-too-late-not-firm-enough.html
Cogent Inc. , the fingerprint-
identification systems maker, asked a Delaware judge to reject
shareholders’ call to put its  3M Co.  buyout deal on hold in
favor of a late, higher bid by  NEC Corp.   The bid from NEC, Japan’s largest maker of personal
computers, was too late, was not firm enough and would pose
antitrust risks, Cogent’s attorney  Donald J. Wolfe  said
yesterday in a Chancery Court hearing in Wilmington, Delaware.  The investors asked Chancery Court Judge  Donald F. Parsons 
to halt the 3M sale and require Cogent to eliminate the deal
protections they say are precluding a firm offer from NEC.
Parsons said he’ll rule before 3M’s offer expires at midnight,
Oct. 7.  Cogent’s board rejected NEC’s offer of more than $1 billion
because it was not a binding bid, Wolfe said. Cogent told NEC
that “it was now or never” because 3M’s offer was definitive
and had a deadline.  An investor attorney, Michael Hanrahan, accused Cogent’s
founder and chief executive officer,  Ming Hsieh , of pushing the
board to accept 3M’s lower offer of $10.50 a share, or
$943 million, partly because he wanted to collect a $153,000
retention bonus.  Tendered Shares  That argument makes no sense because under an NEC sale,
Hsieh would collect $18 million more for the shares he owns,
Wolfe said in court.  Hsieh owns almost 39 percent of Cogent, according to a
regulatory filing in May. He has already tendered his shares to
3M, as required by the sale contract, Wolfe said in court.  Investment adviser RiskMetrics Group Inc. said in a report
that shareholders should reject 3M’s offer because the company
didn’t pursue a potentially higher transaction.  NEC’s interest in Cogent became public on Sept. 30 after
court papers filed by shareholders were unsealed. In court
yesterday, attorneys referred to NEC as Company D, although at
least once Parsons mentioned the electronics maker by name.  Cogent  rose 19 cents, or 1.8 percent to $10.83 cents
yesterday in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. 3M gained
91 cents, or 1 percent, to $87.62 in New York Stock Exchange
composite  trading  yesterday.  The case is In Re Cogent Inc. Shareholders Litigation,
Consolidated CA 5780-VCP, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Church  in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 