-- German Stocks Fall After U.S. Factory Data; BMW, Metro, Commerzbank Drop
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2010-10-01T16:19:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/commerzbank-rwe-brenntag-porsche-may-move-today-german-equity-preview.html
German stocks retreated as U.S.
manufacturing expanded in September at the slowest pace in 10
months, increasing concern the economic recovery is stalling.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG slumped the most since July 1.
 TUI AG  retreated as Morgan Stanley cut its recommendation on the
stock.  Celesio AG  advanced 3.5 percent as Exane BNP Paribas
recommended shares of Europe’s biggest publicly traded drug
wholesaler.  Brenntag AG  rose 1.5 percent after shares in the
company were sold at the upper end of a pricing range.  The benchmark  DAX Index  slipped 0.3 percent to 6,211.34 at
the 5:30 p.m. close in Frankfurt, extending its weekly decline
to 1.4 percent. The measure rallied 5.1 percent last month,
bringing its quarterly gain to 4.4 percent. Still, lingering
concern that some European countries will fail to repay their
debt has left the gauge 2.2 percent below its August high. The
broader HDAX Index also decreased 0.3 percent today.  “In the U.S. and in Europe different types of
uncertainties prevail, which are both equally intense and are
causing equal concern,”  Thorsten Weinelt , Munich-based global
head of research and chief strategist at UniCredit SpA, wrote in
a note in German to clients today. “In the U.S. politicians are
worried about the slow pace of the economic recovery.”  The U.S. Institute for Supply Management’s factory index
dropped to 54.4 last month from 56.3 in August, the Tempe,
Arizona-based group said today. Readings greater than 50 signal
growth and economists forecast a decline to 54.5, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. Measures of
orders and production fell to the lowest level since June 2009.  European Manufacturing  Separate reports showed growth in Europe’s manufacturing
industry slowed and unemployment held at a 12-year high as a
cooling global recovery restrained demand. A gauge of
manufacturing in the 16-nation euro region declined to 53.7 in
September from 55.1 the previous month, London-based Markit
Economics said today.
      BMW  sank 4.2 percent to 49.30 euros, ending three days of
gains. The world’s largest maker of luxury cars is recalling
350,800 BMW-brand and Rolls-Royce models worldwide to repair a
braking-system fault, a spokesman said.  The voluntary recall affects vehicles built from 2002 until
2010 and involves fixing the brake-pressure pump, Frank Strebe,
a spokesman, said today in a phone interview from the Paris
Motor Show.  TUI, Metro  TUI dropped 3.3 percent to 8.68 euros, the largest decline
since Aug. 20. The biggest single stakeholder in Hapag-Lloyd AG
was cut to “equal weight” from “overweight” at Morgan
Stanley.
      Metro AG , Germany’s largest retailer, fell 2.6 percent to
46.52 euros as retail sales in the country unexpectedly declined
for a second month in August. Sales, adjusted for inflation and
seasonal swings, fell 0.2 percent from July, when they dropped a
revised 0.4 percent, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden
said today.  Commerzbank AG  slipped 1 percent to 6.02 euros as European
Union finance officials said the fallout from the debt crisis
could impact the region’s banks.  “Ministers and governors pointed out the risks related to
the sovereign debt market that could have a contagious effect on
the banking sector,” according to a statement issued after a
meeting of officials in Brussels today.
      Celesio  jumped 3.5 percent to 16.51 euros, the biggest
advance in almost three months, as the stock was raised to
“outperform” at Exane BNP Paribas.
      Brenntag , a chemicals distributor owned by BC Partners
Ltd., rose 1.5 percent to 61.90 euros, the highest close since
Sept. 17. Deutsche Bank AG said it placed 11 million shares of
Brenntag AG on behalf of BC’s Brachem Acquisition S.C.A. in
Luxembourg at 60.75 euros a share.  ThyssenKrupp AG, Germany’s biggest steelmaker, rallied 2.6
percent to 24.53 euros. Copper, lead, nickel, tin and zinc all
rose on the London Metal Exchange.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julie Cruz  in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 