-- Consumer Spending in U.S. Rose More Than Forecast in August
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2010-10-01T12:59:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/consumer-spending-in-u-s-incomes-increased-more-than-forecast-in-august.html
Consumer spending in the U.S. rose
more than forecast in August as incomes climbed, bolstering the
Federal Reserve’s forecast that the world’s largest economy will
keep expanding at a “modest” pace.  Purchases rose 0.4 percent for a second month, Commerce
Department figures showed today in Washington. The gain exceeded
the 0.3 percent increase projected by the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Incomes  were up 0.5
percent, the biggest advance this year, propelled by the
resumption of extended and emergency unemployment benefits as
wage gains cooled.  The pickup in spending, the biggest part of the economy,
bodes well for retailers heading into the holiday-shopping
season. Nonetheless, a  jobless  rate that is projected to average
at least 9 percent through next year may prevent demand from
growing much more, one reason why Fed policy makers like William
Dudley say they remain concerned about the speed of the recovery.  “Consumers are doing OK, they are not retrenching, but
neither are they splurging,” said Sal Guatieri, a senior
economist at BMO Capital Markets Inc. in Toronto. “This sets us
up for a better holiday-shopping season than the past few years.
The recovery is on track, but remains lackluster.”  Stock-index futures extended earlier gains following the
report. The contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.6
percent to 1,143.9 at 8:57 a.m. in New York. Treasury securities
fell, sending the yield on the benchmark 10-year note up to 2.54
percent from 2.51 percent late yesterday.  Survey Results  The median estimate was based on a survey of 79 economists.
Projections ranged from increases of 0.2 percent to 0.5 percent.  Economists forecast incomes would also rise 0.3 percent,
following a 0.2 percent gain, according to the Bloomberg survey.  Wages and salaries increased 0.3 percent after a 0.4 percent
increase the prior month, showing how the weak labor market is
holding back paychecks. Transfer payments, which include
government unemployment insurance outlays, jumped 1.6 percent.
Congress passed legislation in late July extending emergency
benefits.  Disposable incomes, or the money left over after taxes, rose
0.2 percent after adjusting for inflation. They dropped 0.2
percent in July.  The  savings rate  increased to 5.8 percent from 5.7 percent
the prior month.  Inflation Stabilizes  Today’s report also showed inflation has stabilized under
the Fed’s long-term projection. The gauge tied to spending
patterns increased 1.5 percent from August 2009, the same as in
the 12 months ended in July.  The Fed’s preferred price measure, which excludes food and
fuel, rose 0.1 percent from the prior month and was up 1.4
percent from a year earlier, matching the 12-month increase in
June and July. The central bank’s long-term projection calls for
an increase in the 1.7 percent to 2 percent range.  Fed policy makers on Sept. 21 moved closer to a second wave
of unconventional monetary easing and said for the first time
that too-low inflation, in addition to sluggish growth, would
warrant taking action.  “Measures of underlying inflation are currently at levels
somewhat below those the Committee judges most consistent, over
the longer run, with its mandate to promote maximum employment
and price stability,” according to the Federal Open Market
Committee statement. The central bank is “prepared to provide
additional accommodation if needed” to support the recovery and
return prices to more desirable levels.  Dudley’s Concerns  Fed Bank of New York President  William Dudley   today   said
the outlook for U.S. job growth and inflation is “unacceptable”
and that the central bank has options to add stimulus without
major drawbacks.  “We have tools that can provide additional stimulus at
costs that do not appear to be prohibitive,” Dudley, who serves
as vice chairman of the Fed’s policy-setting Open Market
Committee, said in a speech to business journalists in New York.
“Further action is likely to be warranted unless the economic
outlook evolves in a way that makes me more confident that we
will see better outcomes for both employment and inflation before
too long.”  Influence on Growth  Today’s report showed that adjusted for inflation, which are
the figures used to calculate gross domestic product, consumer
spending rose 0.2 percent in August for a second month.  Dearborn, Michigan-based  Ford Co.  is among manufacturers
seeing gains in sales while holding below pre-recession levels.  “The auto business is pretty steady and coming back up a
little bit,” Ford Chief Executive Officer Alan Mulally told
reporters in Ann Arbor, Michigan, on Sept. 17. The economy “is
coming back slower than past recessions.”  Some retailers such as Plano, Texas-based  J.C. Penney Co. 
remain cautious. The third-biggest U.S. department-store chain
has planned on getting little help this year from consumer
sentiment and demand, said Chief Executive Officer Myron Ullman.  The lack of jobs is “the biggest single factor,” together
with reduced home equity and credit constraints, Ullman said at
an investor conference on Sept. 28. “It’s not a surprise that
the consumer is still struggling.”  The economy is a top issue for voters in the November
congressional elections and polls show the public is increasingly
skeptical of President Barack Obama’s performance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  