-- Corn Products Chief Gordon Says Corn-Market Volatility Is `Challenging'
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2010-10-01T20:40:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/corn-products-chief-gordon-says-corn-market-volatility-is-challenging-.html
Corn Products International Inc. 
Chief Executive Officer  Ilene Gordon  said the recent rally and
volatility in the corn market will be challenging for her
company and its customers.  “There has been a lot of movement up and down in that
market even as recent as yesterday,” Gordon said today in a
telephone interview. “It will be important for us and our
customers to deal with those changes in prices. It’s going to be
a challenging season for our customers, for us and our
competitors. We pass on corn prices to our customers.”  Corn futures in Chicago reached a near two-year high of
$5.2875 on Sept. 27. The Westchester, Illinois-based maker of
sweeteners and starches must work with its customers to manage
the costs as food companies face increases in various other
commodities such as wheat and cocoa, Gordon said. The company is
in the early part of the season, when a large number of its
contracts with customers are signed, and the effect of corn
prices is still unclear, she said.  Corn Products  rose  27 cents to $37.77 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading.  The shares  have gained 29
percent this year.  Gross profit rose 47 percent to $164 million in the quarter
ended June 30 from a year ago partly due to lower unit corn
costs, higher utilization rates and stronger foreign currencies,
the company said in a statement July 27.  National Starch  The company said today it completed the acquisition of
National Starch, a specialty starches business, from Amsterdam-
based Akzo Nobel NV for $1.3 billion in cash.  Gordon sees growth through the development and sale of
ingredients to food companies, especially as they focus on
health and nutritional products such as yogurt. While
opportunities are available in Asia, South America and Europe,
developing specialty ingredients also will help the company
expand in North America, she said.  “Even though people look at the U.S. and North America and
say there is not a lot of growth, in the specialty-food segment,
there is,” Gordon said.  The acquisition of National Starch is a move toward
developing new products and away from a focus on commodities,
she said.  “That’s our opportunity, to partner with consumer food
companies and work with them on creating new food products that
meet the demand of the consumer, giving them features as it
relates to texture and sweetness and the way the products are
consumed,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shruti Singh  in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Frank at   sfrank9@bloomberg.net . 