-- Corn Harvest in Mexico Rises to Record 25 Million Tons, May Climb Further
-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 2010-10-01T14:47:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/corn-harvest-in-mexico-rises-to-record-25-million-tons-may-climb-further.html
Mexico, the world’s fourth-largest
producer of corn, harvested a record 24.9 million metric tons of
corn this crop year and may increase output next year as
steadier rainfall and new technology improve yields, said
Agriculture Deputy Minister  Mariano Ruiz-Funes .  Corn production may rise about 3 percent to 25.6 million
metric tons in the 12 months that begin this month, Ruiz-Funes
said in an interview at his Mexico City office yesterday.
Mexico’s corn output gained about 3 percent in the crop year
through September from the prior year, he said.  “Mexican corn producers are caring more and more about the
introduction of better technology packages for their crops,”
Ruiz-Funes said.  Technology such as region-specific seeds is boosting
yields to produce as much as 11 tons of corn per hectare (2.5
acres) in Sinaloa in northern Mexico, Ruiz-Funes said. Increased
rain is also helping farmers during the planting season, Ruiz-
Funes said. The national yield average is about 2.7 tons per
hectare.  “There’s going to be an explosion in corn production,”
said Carlos Salazar, head of Mexico’s national corn growers
association. Reservoirs at levels above 90 percent and high corn
prices will make farmers switch crops to corn from sorghum,
Salazar said yesterday in a telephone interview.  Surging Prices  Corn has surged 33 percent since the end of June, reaching
a two-year high of $5.2875 on Sept. 27. Corn for December
delivery dropped 1.4 percent to $4.8875 a bushel at 2:15 p.m.
Paris time on the Chicago Board of Trade.  Mexico may produce 7.5 million tons of sorghum and 4.3
million tons of wheat this crop year, Ruiz-Funes said.  Grupo Bimbo SAB, the world’s largest bread maker, is more
optimistic about sales in Mexico this year compared with last,
Chief Executive Officer  Daniel Servitje  told investors and
analysts July 22.  Mexico, the world’s second-largest importer of coarse
grains, may import as much as 9 million tons of corn in 2011,
Ruiz-Funes said. Japan is the world’s largest importer of course
grains such as corn.  “Our expectation is to gradually reduce corn imports,”
Ruiz-Funes said. Mexico, the world’s second-biggest corn buyer,
may eliminate corn imports in about eight years, he said.  Domestic Shortfall  Mexico expects to cut imports by persuading farmers to
plant more yellow corn instead of sorghum or white corn, Ruiz-
Funes said.  Most of the country’s production is white corn, used to
make staple foods such as tortillas. Mexico imports between 8
million tons and 9 million tons of yellow corn annually because
domestic production isn’t sufficient to cover local demand, he
said. A majority of the imported corn is from the U.S. Yellow
corn is used to feed animals.  Monterrey-based  Gruma SA , the world’s largest corn flour
maker, sells corn, wheat flour and tortillas under the brand
names Maseca, Mission and Guerrero in its two largest markets,
the U.S. and Mexico.  Convincing farmers to change their planting habits may not
be an easy task, according to Salazar, of Mexico’s national corn
growers association.  “It’s very difficult to change farmers’ minds to stop
planting the product they have planted for years,” he said.
“It’s also hard to convince cattle ranchers to feed a different
corn for their animals.”  The U.S. is the world’s largest corn producer followed by
China and Brazil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carlos Manuel Rodriguez  in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  