-- Corporate Bond Sales Fall in Europe Amid Investor ‘Indigestion’
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   H y d e   a n d   S o n j a   C h e u n g
-- 2010-10-01T09:34:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/corporate-bond-sales-fall-in-europe-amid-investor-indigestion-.html
Corporate bond sales fell 51 percent
in Europe this week after issues from power group  Alstom SA  and
voucher company  Edenred  lost value as investors demanded higher
rewards.  Renault SA  pulled a note issue by the second-biggest French
carmaker’s financing unit as the yield investors seek to hold
investment-grade company debt rose. Alstom’s 2018 notes issued
Sept. 28 fell 8.6 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,400) face amount, to
a bid price of 98.873, according to Bloomberg composite prices.  The all-in yield buyers want to hold company bonds jumped 8
basis points to 3.264 percent this week, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data. Sales slowed to 5.3 billion
euros as investors became more selective after a flood of 51
billion euros of supply in the first three weeks of September.  “We have been seeing some signs of indigestion in the
market as the primary deals have simply not performed in
secondary trading,” said  Harpreet Parhar , a credit strategist
at Credit Agricole SA in London.  Alstom  raised 1 billion euros from the sale of five-year
and eight-year notes this week. The longer-dated 2018 bonds now
trade 6 basis points wider at 136 basis points more than the
benchmark swap rate, according to Bloomberg data. Alstom’s 2015
notes fell 0.223 to a bid price of 99.543, Bloomberg composite
prices show.  Irish Bailout  Investor confidence was shaken as Ireland said the cost of
repairing its financial system may ultimately rise to as much as
50 billion euros, which will drive the nation’s budget deficit
to 32 percent of gross domestic product this year. Spain’s top
credit rating was also cut one level by Moody’s Investors
Service citing a “weak” economic outlook.  Edenred,  the French operator of Ticket Restaurant vouchers,
sold a debut 800 million-euro seven-year bond on Sept. 28 that
has fallen 0.5 to a bid price of 99.268, Bloomberg prices show.
The yield on the notes has widened 5 basis points to 145 basis
points more than swaps.  “Deals have to be priced correctly,” said  John Anderson ,
who helps manage about 23 billion pounds ($36 billion) of assets
as head of credit at Gartmore Investment Management Ltd. in
London. “Companies that don’t offer a wide enough premium will
have difficulty in placing new issues, investors can afford to
be more selective after the healthy amount of sales.”  RCI Banque SA, the financing unit of Renault, canceled its
five-year note issue Sept. 28, according to a spokeswoman, who
declined to be identified citing company policy. The securities
were marketed at a spread of about 205 basis points to 210 basis
points more than the benchmark swap rate.  ‘Risk-Off Strategy’  “It’s now a risk-off strategy for investors,” said  Jeroen Van den Broek , a credit strategist at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam.
“Primary markets are weaker, so in turn riskier sectors such as
autos may find they have to pay premiums they would rather not
to get deals away.”  Telefonica SA , Europe’s second-biggest phone company,
called off a seven-year note issue Sept. 23. The debt was being
offered at a spread of 190 basis points more than U.K.
government debt, Bloomberg data show.  Some bond deals in Europe have been poorly received because
“they’ve been too rich,” offering little or no premium,
according to  Suki Mann , credit strategist at Societe Generale SA
in London. The U.S. market “remains on fire,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Caroline Hyde  in London 
 chyde3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  