-- Corporate Debt Sales Slow 12 Percent as Busiest September on Record Ends
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2010-10-01T10:04:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/corporate-debt-sales-slow-as-busiest-september-on-record-ends.html
Sales of corporate bonds in the U.S.
decelerated this week as the busiest September on record
ends.  NBC Universal Inc. issued $5.1 billion of bonds in the
third-biggest corporate offering this year and  BP Plc  sold $3.5
billion of debt as it tapped the U.S. credit market for the
first time since a rig explosion in April led to the worst
accidental oil spill in history, leading $32.1 billion in sales,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Corporate bond issuance fell for the second straight week,
declining 12 percent, even as sales of $159 billion set a record
for the month of September, Bloomberg data show. Companies took
advantage of falling yields as investors increased deposits in
fixed-income funds with benchmark interest rates near zero, said
 Manny Labrinos  at Nuveen Investments.  “A lot of issuers tried to get through the door at the
beginning of the month thinking that September would be bad in
terms of volatility,” said Labrinos, who helps oversee $1.8
billion in high-yield debt in Los Angeles. “It ended up being a
very good month for risk assets and lot of the companies that
might have come now had already sold in the surge of issuance
earlier.”  Sears Holdings Corp. , the largest U.S. department store
chain, sold $1 billion of notes after doubling the size of its
offering to lead $6.61 billion of high-yield, high-risk
corporate bond issuance. Sales of the debt fell 46 percent from
the week ended Sept. 24, when offerings reached $12.3 billion,
Bloomberg data show.  Third-Quarter Issuance  Sales this week compare with $36.3 billion in the period
ended Sept. 24 and a 2010 average $21.5 billion, Bloomberg data
show. Third-quarter issuance of $353.6 billion was the most
since the three months ended in March 2009.  Issuance may continue to slow this month as public
companies preparing to announce financial results pare offerings
and maturities decline, Bank of America Corp. strategists  Hans Mikkelsen  and  Yuriy Shchuchinov  wrote in a Sept. 29 note to
clients. Investment-grade corporate bond sales may reach $60
billion in October and $150 billion in the fourth quarter, they
wrote.  “It looks like we’re in for a quarter in which we get
meaningfully less supply than we had in the third quarter,”
Mikkelsen, who’s based in New York, said in a telephone
interview. “If you look at the kind of deals that you know had
to come to the market, a lot of them have come.”  Economic Recovery  Volume declined even as economic data signaled the recovery
was stabilizing. The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago
Inc. said yesterday that its  purchasing managers’ index  climbed
to 60.4 in September, exceeding the highest estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The number of applicants
for unemployment insurance payments fell more than projected
last week, another report showed.  The extra yield investors demand to own investment-grade
company bonds instead of Treasuries was unchanged at 184 basis
points on the week, according to the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch U.S. Corporate Master Index. Absolute yields on the debt
declined 6 basis points to 3.69 percent and fell as low as 3.64
percent, the lowest since at least October 1986, on Sept. 28,
the index data show.  NBC Universal’s offering was the largest since Kraft Foods
Inc. sold $9.5 billion of debt and Berkshire Hathaway issued $8
billion of notes on Feb. 4, Bloomberg data show. Proceeds will
be used to finance the New York-based General Electric Co.
unit’s sale to Comcast Corp.  BP, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Royal Bank of Canada were also
among companies selling $25.5 billion of investment-grade
corporate  bonds  this week, Bloomberg data show.  High-Yield Spreads  High-yield corporate bond spreads narrowed to 626 basis
points from 632 basis points on Sept. 24, according to the Bank
of America Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield Master II Index. Yields
declined to 8.09 percent.  Sears Holdings, West Corp. and Ardagh Glass Group Plc led
14 companies selling high-yield debt this week, compared with 22
in the period ended Sept. 24, Bloomberg data show. In all of
September, 73 issuers sold junk bonds, the most since 79 in
April.  Investors plowed $107.4 billion into investment-grade
mutual funds this year through Sept. 22, and $8.3 billion into
high-yield funds, Bank of America Merrill Lynch analysts
wrote in a Sept. 23 report that cited Lipper FMI data.  Issuance may accelerate if borrowing costs stay near the
lowest on record, said Timothy Cox, an executive director of
debt capital markets at Mizuho Securities USA in New York.  “Money is still very cheap for the issuers,” Cox said.
“We’re going to see some big deals. This is not over yet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Catts  in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 