-- Crude Advance on Economic Data, Caps Biggest Weekly Gain Since February
-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 2010-10-01T20:17:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/crude-rises-on-economic-reports-heading-for-biggest-gain-since-april.html
Oil rose, capping its biggest weekly
gain since February, after economic data from the U.S. and China
bolstered optimism that demand is growing in the world’s two
largest energy-consuming countries.  Crude advanced to the highest level in eight weeks as
China’s purchasing managers’ index gained in September at the
fastest pace in four months, according to a report today. U.S.
consumer spending increased more than forecast in August as
incomes climbed, a Commerce Department report showed.  “Where those two countries go, the world will follow on
the price side,” said  Roger Read , an analyst at Natixis
Bleichroeder in Houston. “Expectations are that it’s no longer
going to be a double-dip recession but some form of growth next
year.”  Oil for November delivery climbed $1.61, or 2 percent, to
settle at $81.58 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
It touched $81.64, the highest level since Aug. 5. The weekly
gain of 6.7 percent is the largest since Feb. 19.  Purchases in the U.S. rose 0.4 percent for a second month,
exceeding the 0.3 percent increase projected by the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Incomes  were
up 0.5 percent, the biggest advance this year.  Chinese Manufacturing  China’s purchasing managers’  index  climbed to 53.8 from
51.7 in August, the logistics federation and statistics bureau
said today. The median forecast from 15 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was 52.5. Readings above 50 indicate expansion.  “The Chinese data spurs hopes of continued strong oil
demand in the second-largest consuming country,” said  Carsten Fritsch , a Commerzbank AG analyst in Frankfurt. China trails
only the U.S. in the amount of oil it consumes.  Futures have risen 15 percent in the past year. Prices
gained 11 percent in September, the biggest monthly gain since
May 2009, and rose 5.7 percent in the third quarter.  Oil also increased as the dollar fell to the lowest level
in more than six months against the euro, boosting the appeal of
commodities as an alternative investment.  The dollar dropped 1.1 percent against the euro to $1.378
at 3:22 p.m. in New York as a report showing U.S. manufacturing
expanded at the slowest pace in 10 months dampened demand for
U.S. assets. The U.S. currency has lost 2.1 percent this week.  The Institute for Supply Management’s  factory index  fell to
54.4 in September from 56.3 a month earlier, the Tempe, Arizona-
based group said today. Readings greater than 50 signal growth.
Economists forecast the gauge to drop to 54.5, according to the
median of 83 projections in a Bloomberg News survey.  Equities Rise  “You’ve got the dollar having the tonsils kicked out of
it, equity markets moving higher and it’s the beginning of a new
quarter, so new money is flowing in,” said  Addison Armstrong ,
director of market research at Tradition Energy, a Stamford,
Connecticut-based procurement adviser.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  rose 0.4 percent to
1,146.24 at 4:12 p.m. in New York, and the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  gained 0.4 percent to 10,829.68.  The  S&P GSCI Spot Index  of 24 raw materials rose 1.1
percent to the highest level in almost five months. Thirteen of
the commodities increased, led by gasoil, gasoline and Nymex
crude oil.  “Oil has been the laggard among the commodities,” said
 Bill O’Grady , chief market strategist at Confluence Investment
Management in St. Louis. “Now it’s relatively cheap compared to
the metals, grains and livestock, so you are seeing increased
investor interest.”  Brent crude for November settlement jumped $1.44, or 1.7
percent, to $83.75 a barrel, the highest close since May 4.  Analysts Expect Increase  Crude may rise next week on speculation that U.S.
inventories will drop as the economic rebound accelerates, a
Bloomberg News survey showed. Fifteen of 36 analysts, or 42
percent, forecast crude oil will increase through Oct. 8.
Thirteen respondents, or 36 percent, predicted a decline, and
eight estimated prices will be little changed.  “You’re going to start hearing talk now about prices
putting a damper on the recovery, if there really is one,” said
 Michael Fitzpatrick , a broker with MF Global in New York.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 739,034
contracts as of 3:24 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 787,390
contracts yesterday, 20 percent above the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.37 million contracts, the
highest level since May 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margot Habiby  in Dallas at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 