-- Crude Oil Trades Near Highest in Seven Weeks on Signs of Improving Demand
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   K w i a t k o w s k i
-- 2010-10-01T12:11:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/crude-oil-trades-near-highest-in-seven-weeks-on-signs-of-improving-demand.html
Oil rose for a third day, headed for
its biggest weekly gain since April, after economic data from
the U.S. and China bolstered optimism that demand is growing in
the world’s two largest consumers of the fuel.  Futures reached their highest level in more than seven
weeks as China’s purchasing managers’ index rose in September at
the fastest pace in four months, according to a report today.
The U.S. government yesterday reported economic growth and a
decline in jobless claims that exceeded forecasts. Oil also rose
after OPEC member Ecuador declared a state of emergency after
what it called a “coup attempt” yesterday.  “The Chinese data spurs hopes of continued strong oil
demand in the second largest consuming country,” said  Carsten Fritsch , a Commerzbank AG analyst in Frankfurt. “The reaction
to the Ecuador news is unwarranted, but in a bullish
environment, it is an argument to buy.”  Oil for November delivery climbed as much as $1.18, or 1.5
percent, to $81.15 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange,
the highest price since Aug. 10. It was at $80.90 at 1:09 p.m.
London time. Brent crude for November settlement was up $1.06,
or 1.3 percent, at $83.17 a barrel.  China’s purchasing managers’  index  climbed to 53.8 from
51.7 in August, the logistics federation and statistics bureau
said today. The median forecast from 15 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was 52.5. Readings above 50 indicate expansion.  Emergency in Ecuador  Ecuador, the smallest oil producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, declared a state of emergency
after what it called a “coup attempt” yesterday by members of
its security forces. President  Rafael Correa  was freed in a
military raid on a hospital where police held him captive as
part of a wage dispute.  Crude may rise next week on speculation that U.S.
inventories will drop as the economic rebound accelerates, a
Bloomberg News survey showed. Fifteen of 36 analysts, or 42
percent, forecast crude oil will increase through Oct. 8.
Thirteen respondents, or 36 percent, predicted a decline, and
eight estimated prices will be little changed.  Futures gained 11 percent in September and 5.7 percent in
the third quarter. This week, the market is up 5.8 percent, the
most since the five days ended April 2.  U.S.  initial jobless claims  decreased by 16,000 to 453,000
in the week ended Sept. 25, Labor Department data showed
yesterday. That’s lower than the median estimate of 460,000 from
47 economists polled by Bloomberg News.  Unemployment  hovered
around 10 percent.  Manufacturing Data  The U.S. economy grew at a 1.7 percent annual rate in the
second quarter, revised figures from the Commerce Department
showed yesterday. The revised GDP figure exceeded the 1.6
percent median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  Business activity in the U.S. also beat the highest
estimate from economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The
Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. yesterday said its
business barometer climbed to 60.4 in September.  Oil prices could rise further if a U.S. manufacturing
report later today shows “an upside surprise” by beating
economists’ estimates, according to Fritsch.  The Institute for Supply Management’s factory index, due to
be reported at 10 a.m. New York time, fell to 54.5 from 56.3 in
September, according to the median estimate of 83 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Readings above 50 signal growth.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alexander Kwiatkowski  in London at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  