-- Danske Bank CEO Says Loan Losses in `Scary' Ireland Have Likely Peaked
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2010-10-01T09:51:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/danske-bank-s-straarup-says-loan-losses-in-scary-ireland-likely-peaked.html
Danske Bank A/S , Denmark’s largest
lender, said its Irish loan losses have likely peaked as the
country said it would spend as much as 50 billion euros ($69
billion) bailing out the nation’s banks.  “Obviously, it is scary that the banking sector has cost
the Irish government and taxpayers so much and the big question
is, of course, what happens now -- will the property market fall
even more?” Chief Executive Officer  Peter Straarup  said in a
Copenhagen interview yesterday. “If it does, it will obviously
result in more impairment charges in addition to what has
already taken place. We do think, though, and still think, that
impairment charges peaked in Ireland in the second quarter.”  Ireland is preparing to take majority control of  Allied
Irish Banks Plc  and pump extra cash into Anglo Irish Bank Corp.,
it said yesterday. The cost of the bailout will push the budget
deficit to about 32 percent of economic output in 2010. Danske
Bank’s second-quarter loan losses in Ireland were 1.65 billion
kroner ($304 million).  Once the banks are shored up, the Irish government will
seek to narrow the budget deficit, which at 14 percent of gross
domestic product was the highest in the euro region last year.
Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  will lay out his plan to narrow
the deficit to 3 percent by the end of 2014 in November.  ‘Right Medicine’  “If the Irish government tightens more, which could become
necessary, then it would obviously also hit other sectors than
the property sector, which could mean the economy would take
some time longer to recover,” Straarup, 59, said. “I don’t
have any doubt, though, that the Irish economy will recover one
day, and I think the government and the country is putting the
right medicine into the medicine cabinet.”  Danske Bank has  expanded abroad  in the past 15 years
because of limited growth opportunities in its Danish  home
market . It acquired Sweden’s Oestgoeta Enskilda Bank in 1997,
Norway’s Fokus Bank in 1999 and Northern Bank in Northern
Ireland and National Irish Bank in the Republic of Ireland in
2005. Danske also acquired Sampo Bank in Finland in 2007.  Danske Bank suffered the  largest loan losses  of any Nordic
bank last year because of the economic crisis in its Danish home
market and Ireland. The lender’s Danish consumer business has
been unprofitable since the fourth quarter of 2008 because of
impairment charges and costs related to the Danish state
guarantee program for banks, and in Ireland since early 2008
after the country’s property market slumped.  Danske Shares  Danske Bank, the Nordic region’s second-largest bank by
market value before the global financial crisis began, has
slipped in size and now ranks fourth after  Nordea Bank AB ,
Norway’s DnB NOR ASA and Sweden’s Svenska Handelsbanken AB. The
 shares  have gained 11 percent this year, compared with a 4
percent decline in the Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial
Services Index, which includes 54 European banks and insurers.  The stock was down 0.4 krone, or 0.3 percent, at 131.5
kroner as of 11:31 a.m. in Copenhagen trading after falling as
much as 1.4 percent earlier today.  In the first half of this year, Danske Bank paid a 1.25
billion-krone fee to the Danish government guarantee program for
banks and took 927 million kroner in impairment charges relating
to the program, or Bank Package I, which expired Sept. 30. That
contributed to the 1.5 billion-krone pretax loss it reported at
its Danish retail unit in the period.  The Danish lender is likely to return to making money in
its Danish retail operations this year after the expiration of
the country’s government’s guarantee program, said Straarup, who
has been CEO since 1998 and joined Danske Bank in 1968.  Impairment Charges  “Danske pays about 1.1 billion kroner per quarter in
impairment charges or commission fees,” Straarup said in
regards to the costs of Bank Package I, which have been taken by
the lender’s Danish retail operations. “So, for that reason, I
will expect them to get back to profits again now.”  The expiration of the Danish government guarantee program,
coupled with new regulation and liquidity buffers for financial
institutions, may prompt more mergers and acquisitions, Straarup
said. Danske Bank isn’t interested in acquiring any Denmark
lenders because it already has about a third of the nation’s
market share, he said.  Danske Bank is closing branches in Ireland,  Sweden , Norway
and Denmark as part of a plan to consolidate its network, make
smaller corporate customers use its telephone bank instead and
lower costs, Straarup said. The bank is cutting its branch
network in Ireland by 50 percent and as much as 20 percent in
Sweden and Norway, he said.  Danske has 320 branches in Denmark, 49 Swedish outlets, 45
Norwegian branches and 44 Irish outlets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Niklas Magnusson  in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net 
 Christian Wienberg  in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  