-- Dish Stops Airing Fox Sports, MSG in Contract Dispute
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2010-10-01T20:18:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/dish-network-stops-carrying-fox-regional-sports-msg-in-contract-dispute.html
Dish Network Corp. , the second-
largest U.S. satellite-television provider, isn’t carrying Fox
Regional Sports, MSG Network and MSG Plus after disagreements
stymied attempts to renew contracts for the content.  Fox removed access to 19 local sports channels and other
programming, Dish said in a statement today. Madison Square
Garden Inc. said it couldn’t agree with Dish on rates, content
and other terms by a midnight deadline, according to a separate
statement today.  Pay-TV companies such as Dish are fighting increased fees
by content providers as they try to keep  costs  low and prevent
customer losses, leading to disputes. Dish lost almost 20,000
customers in the second quarter amid increased competition and a
weak economy that hurt spending.  “These are really tough economic times and we have to make
sure we have the flexibility with our customers to meet their
needs and provide content at a reasonable price,” said Dave
Shull, senior vice president of programming for Dish.  Fox, owned by  News Corp. , was asking for a rate increase of
more than 50 percent for the content, which also includes FX and
the National Geographic Channel, Dish said.  “The proposal we’ve offered Dish is fair and in line with
the tremendous value we provide,” Fox said in a statement.  Resume Negotiations  Madison Square Garden, which broadcasts New York-based
sports like the New York Knicks basketball games, called on Dish
to resume negotiations and reconsider its proposals.  “Dish has rejected numerous fair and reasonable proposals
at rates, terms and conditions consistent with our deals and
with other operators,”  Dan Ronayne , general manager for MSG
Networks, said in the statement.  Dish, based in Englewood, Colorado, offered Fox a “double
digit” rate increase, though the two companies are still far
apart on the pricing, Shull said. Dish offered Madison Square
Garden an increased rate yesterday, and the companies disagree
on a music channel that Dish doesn’t want to carry, he said.  Dish  rose  12 cents to $19.33 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nadsaq Stock Market trading. Madison Square Garden gained 21
cents to $21.30 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading and
News Corp. advanced 18 cents to $13.24 on the Nasdaq.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Amy Thomson  in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  