-- Distressed Debt to Grow as Basel Forces Banks to Shed Loans, Barclays Says
-- B y   I s a b e l l   W i t t
-- 2010-10-01T14:03:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/distressed-debt-to-grow-as-banks-shed-bad-loans-barclays-says.html
The distressed debt market will grow
as banks shed loans to meet regulatory capital requirements,
analysts at Barclays Capital said.  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision more than
doubled capital requirements for the world’s banks Sept. 12,
prompting banks to sell speculative-grade debt with the highest
capital charges. Forced sales of underperforming assets will be
a “key contributor” to the expansion of trading in the debt,
 Eugene Regis , a high-yield credit strategist at Barclays said.  “We see potential increased amounts of distressed debt
coming from the banks over the medium-term,” Regis wrote in a
note to clients. Sellers may flood the market with “assets from
sectors affected in the recession, such as commercial property”
and some of the estimated 500 billion euros ($687 billion) of
loans used to finance leveraged buyouts in Europe, he said.  Debt is considered distressed when its price falls to less
than 75 percent of face value, or yields rise to at least 10
percentage points more than benchmark rates, according to Babson
Capital Management LLC. There is about $180 billion of the debt
outstanding in the U.S., Babson estimates.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, taken over by the U.K.
government during the credit crisis, sold 1.4 billion euros of
loans in August to Intermediate Capital Group Plc, a London-
based fund that targets junior-ranking debt. Last month RBS put
up for sale about 500 million pounds ($770 million) of mezzanine
loans, according to four people familiar with the sale.  “Forbearance measures,” where banks grant waivers instead
of forcing a company to default, have also limited distressed
debt trading, Barclays said. Banks forgave 7 billion euros of
senior loans as part of restructurings in 2009 to keep
speculative-grade borrowers afloat, according to Fitch Ratings.
They loosened conditions on 19.2 billion euros of loans so far
this year, compared with 32.3 billion euros in 2009, according
to Standard & Poor’s Leveraged Commentary & Data.  LBO firms raise leveraged loans in the name of their
targets and use their cash flow to repay debt, triggering a fall
in the companies’ credit rating to junk, or below Baa3 by
Moody’s Investors Service and BBB- by S&P.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Isabell Witt  in London at 
 iwitt4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 Fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 