-- Dollar to Drop 10% Against Euro to $1.50 as Central Banks Sell, Faros Says
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2010-10-01T05:46:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/dollar-to-drop-10-against-euro-to-1-50-as-central-banks-sell-faros-says.html
The dollar will fall 10 percent by
December against the euro, extending its biggest quarterly loss
since 2002, as Asian and South American central banks sell
greenbacks for Europe’s common currency, said Faros Trading LLC.  Faros, which executes currency transactions on behalf of
hedge funds and institutional clients, estimates policy makers
in the two regions purchase about $12 billion a day to curb the
strength of their currencies and support exporters. Unwilling to
hold on to dollars, the central banks then sell those greenbacks
for currencies including euro, yen and sterling, it said. Faros
correctly predicted in July that the euro would rise 6 percent
to $1.3684 over two months.  “The real weakening of the dollar is coming from Asian
central banks who are essentially selling the dollar every
single day as they get out of the dollars that they’re buying
through intervention in Asia,” said  Douglas Borthwick ,
Stamford, Connecticut-based head of trading at Faros. “We see
continued dollar weakness going forward and expect the euro to
strengthen a further 10 percent through the end of the year.”  The dollar traded at $1.3656 per euro as of 6:44 a.m. in
Tokyo, falling for a third straight week. A decline of 10
percent to exceed $1.50 would see the greenback trading at its
lowest level since December 2009.  The U.S. currency climbed as high as $1.1877 per euro on
June 7, the strongest since March 2006, as concerns over budget
deficits in nations including Greece, Portugal and Spain
prompted speculation among investors that the European Union’s
currency was in danger of collapse.  Currency Reserves  The dollar’s share of global foreign-exchange reserves rose
in the second quarter as investors sought safe assets at the
height of the European crisis. Allocations climbed to 62.1
percent in the second quarter from 61.7 percent in the previous
three months, the International Monetary Fund reported
yesterday. That was down from the 62.8 percent held in the same
period a year ago.  The euro’s share declined to 26.5 percent from 27.2 percent
in the previous quarter and an all-time high of 27.8 percent in
the three months ended Sept. 30, 2009. The yen’s share rose to
3.3 percent from 3.1 percent.  The euro has climbed 15 percent since its June low after
European officials unveiled in May a 750 billion euro ($1
trillion) backstop to blunt the sovereign-debt crisis and
restore confidence in the common currency.  Diversification away from the dollar will begin to register
in IMF reserves data amid selling by Asian and South American
central banks, Borthwick said.  Quantitative Easing  Faros expects the dollar to also weaken as the Federal
Reserve announces another round of so-called quantitative easing
asset purchases to spur growth and support prices. The Dollar
Index, which tracks the greenback against the currencies of six
trading partners, has dropped 3.3 percent since Fed policy
makers signaled Sept. 21 their willingness to expand monetary
policy stimulus.  Policy makers said that day they were “prepared to provide
additional accommodation if needed to support the economic
recovery and to return inflation, over time, to levels
consistent with its mandate.”  The policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee next meets
Nov. 2-3 in Washington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 