-- Drugmakers’ ‘Doughnut Hole’ Deal to Shave Sales Less Than 1%
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2010-10-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/drugmakers-doughnut-hole-deal-on-overhaul-to-shave-sales-less-than-1-.html
Drugmakers led by  Pfizer Inc. ,
 AstraZeneca  and  Bristol-Myers Squibb  Co. may provide more than
$2 billion in drug discounts to senior citizens next year under
a deal pharmaceutical companies made with the White House,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Pfizer, the world’s largest drug company, will cede less
than half of 1 percent of its $50 billion in annual  revenue 
under the arrangement. The deal provides Medicare beneficiaries
who fall into a coverage gap known as the “doughnut hole” 50
percent off brand-name medications. Worldwide sales by brand-
name drugmakers in 2008 totaled $288 billion, according to data
from the drug industry’s trade association.  “This was a good deal for pharma,” said  Les Funtleyder , a
health care analyst with New York-based Miller Tabak & Co. The
data “disputes the narrative that health care reform is bad for
pharmaceuticals, and as more data emerges I think you’re going
to see that narrative play out across the health industry,” he
said in a telephone interview.  The drug industry struck the deal with Democrats, who
incorporated it into the health care overhaul President  Barack Obama  signed in March. In return for providing the price breaks
and other concessions, pharmaceutical companies avoided policies
such as allowing importation of drugs and having the government
negotiate drug prices for Medicare beneficiaries.  Bloomberg compiled the data from a report released Sept. 24
by  Medicare , the U.S. health program for the elderly and
disabled.  Other Benefits  Drugmakers could make back some of the revenue they’re
giving up through the discounts, Funtleyder said. Provisions in
the law that expand insurance coverage will give brand-name
pharmaceutical companies about 32 million potential new
customers, according to  Congressional Budget Office  estimates.  Before the discounts were offered, Medicare beneficiaries
who fell into the coverage gap often switched their brand-name
drugs to generics or stopped taking medications altogether. The
discounts make it more likely this group will continue taking
brand-name drugs, Funtleyder said.  The doughnut hole is a feature of Medicare drug coverage
that will gradually disappear during the health overhaul.
Currently,  Medicare  pays for senior citizens’ drugs until the
annual cost reaches $2,830. The beneficiary at that point pays
all costs until total out-of-pocket spending reaches $4,550.
Beyond that point, Medicare covers most costs.  Doughnut Hole  About 3.4 million people, or 14 percent of those who have
Medicare drug plans, fell into the doughnut hole in 2007, the
most recent year for which data is available, according to the
nonprofit Kaiser Family Foundation in Washington.  Total spending by Medicare beneficiaries in the doughnut
hole was $4.9 billion in 2009, according to the  Medicare data 
released last week. Assuming spending remains stable, drugmakers
would wind up discounting about $2.5 billion in 2011.  In 2009, New York-based Pfizer outpaced other drug
manufacturers with beneficiaries who fell into the doughnut hole
spending $469 million on the company’s drugs. AstraZeneca, the
London-based maker of cholesterol drug Crestor, was next, at
$400 million, followed by New York’s Bristol-Myers at
$368 million. AstraZeneca and Bristol-Myers, like Pfizer, have
agreed to discount future such sales by half and would likely
give up less than 1 percent of product revenue to the discount
program, according to their 2009 financial statements.  Drug Companies  Also among the top 10 companies whose drugs are used by
Medicare beneficiaries in the doughnut hole are Ingelheim,
Germany-based  Boehringer Ingelheim  at $312 million;  Novartis AG 
of Basel, Switzerland at $303 million; London-based
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc  at $284 million;  Merck & Co . of Whitehouse
Station, New Jersey, at $282 million; Indianapolis-based  Eli
Lilly & Co . at $250 million;  Eisai Co.  of Tokyo at $242 million;
and Tokyo-based  Takeda Pharmaceutical Co . at $202 million. Those
companies’ drug sales made up 63 percent of all sales in the
doughnut hole. Like Pfizer, they have agreed to offer a 50
percent discount.  The health law closes the Medicare drug coverage gap over a
decade, first by giving $250 rebate checks this year to people
who reach the doughnut hole to reduce out-of-pocket expenses. It
would continue reducing the amount beneficiaries pay by
shrinking the coverage gap until the hole disappears entirely in
2020, according to the law.  Drug Discounts  Until then, senior citizens that fall into the gap will get
half off whatever brand name drugs they purchase. Pfizer’s
cholesterol drug Lipitor, for example, cost consumers in the
coverage gap $86 per month, according to the Kaiser Family
Foundation, which would mean a monthly savings of $43.
GlaxoSmithKline’s Advair Diskus, used to treat breathing
difficulties, costs $200 per month, for a savings of $100.  “These discounts will offer significant relief from the
cost pressures Medicare beneficiaries face in the doughnut hole
and will help patients continue taking the medications they need
to manage their health,”  Kristen Neese , a spokeswoman for
Pfizer, said in an e-mail. The company declined to comment
specifically on the figures Medicare provided.  Tony Jewell , a spokesman for AstraZeneca, said that
“AstraZeneca and the pharmaceutical industry agreed to pay our
fair share by helping close the coverage gap.” He also declined
to address the Medicare data.  Jennifer Mauer, a spokeswoman for Bristol-Myers, wouldn’t
discuss how the discount program would affect the company.
Gregory Kueterman, a spokesman for Eli Lilly, said the company,
as a policy, doesn’t discuss such projections.  Patent Protection  The 2009 figures may not reflect the discounts companies
will pay, because some products will lose patent protection in
2011.  Certain drugs, including Bristol-Myers’s heart medicine
Plavix, lose patent protection next year and will face generic
competition. Plavix brought in $6.1 billion for Bristol-Myers in
2009. Pfizer’s Lipitor, worth $11.4 billion in sales in 2009,
will also lose patent protection in 2011.  Drug prices may also rise in future years. A  report  by the
senior citizens lobby group AARP found that retail prices for
prescription drugs rose 8.3 percent in 2009, more than any time
in the previous four years.  Greg Lopes, a spokesman for  Pharmaceutical Research and
Manufacturers of America , said the industry group didn’t have
its own projection of how much the program would cost
drugmakers. An analysis by the Washington-based consulting firm
Avalere Health and provided by PhRMA put the cost of the
discount program to the industry at $32 billion.  “Our focus remains on helping to ensure that America’s
seniors and disabled continue to benefit from this enormously
successful program,” Lopes said in a statement.  The drug industry, in the run-up to Obama’s signing of the
law, estimated its contribution at $80 billion over a decade, or
about $8 billion per year on average. That total includes
industry fees; discounts to senior citizens; rebates to
Medicaid, the federal-state health program for the poor; and
costs associated with the creation of a process for the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration to approve generic versions of
biotechnology drugs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Drew Armstrong  in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 