-- Dubai Doesn't Plan to Sell More Bonds in the `Near Future', Al Saleh Says
-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 2010-10-01T17:01:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/dubai-doesn-t-plan-to-sell-more-bonds-in-the-near-future-al-saleh-says.html
Dubai, which raised $1.25 billion in
a two-part bond sale this week -- its first sovereign debt issue
since the Dubai World credit crisis roiled global markets -- has
no current plans to issue more bonds.  The emirate doesn’t plan to issue a bond in the “near
future, because the resources currently available and the
operating revenue, at the present time, meet the requirements
for the operating expenses and capital expenditures,”
 Abdulrahman Al Saleh , director general of Dubai’s Department of
Finance, told Dubai TV today according to a transcript of his
remarks on the state-run  WAM news agency .  The government of Dubai “was not under pressure,” when it
sold $1.25 billion in bonds, and this was a measure taken “to
enhance the development of the emirate in global markets,” Al
Saleh said as quoted by WAM. The demand for the bonds is a
response “to all those who doubted the ability of the emirate
to deal with investors and its ability to enter global
markets.”  The Persian Gulf financial hub’s five-year, $500 million
note was priced to yield 6.7 percent, while the $750 million 10-
year bond was priced to yield 7.75 percent. The bonds generated
more than 370 orders valued at about $5 billion, according to a
government statement this week.  About 35 percent of the issue was subscribed by Asian
investors, followed by 30 percent from European investors and 30
percent by Middle Eastern investors, Al Saleh said.  Dubai World  Dubai World, one of the emirate’s three main state-owned
holding companies, said Sept. 10 that creditors holding more
than 99 percent of the value of its loans approved a plan to
alter the terms on $24.9 billion of debt. The deepest financial
crisis since the 1930s sparked a more than 50 percent decline in
property prices in Dubai and froze credit markets, preventing
some of the emirate’s state-owned companies from raising new
loans.  Dubai’s government has projected a deficit of 5.99 billion
dirhams ($1.6 billion) this year, narrowing from 12.9 billion
dirhams last year, according to a bond prospectus published
Sept. 27. Dubai’s government had outstanding debt of 105.47
billion dirhams at the end of July, according to the prospectus.  Saleh said he expected government spending to “decline by
a high rate as soon as infrastructure projects are completed by
the end of this year or in 2011, which will boost the budget and
allow the government to develop new facilities in the future.”  Dubai’s sale is the first by the emirate after Dubai World
announced plans last November to delay debt repayments. Dubai
and its state-owned companies borrowed $109.3 billion as the
emirate transformed itself into a financial, logistics and
tourism hub, with about $15.5 billion of debt due this year,
according to estimates from the International Monetary Fund.  Al-Saleh’s interview with the news channel airs later
tonight.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Massoud A. Derhally  in Beirut at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 