-- Fed's Dudley Says Further Easing Probably Warranted
-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s
-- 2010-10-01T17:16:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/dudley-says-more-fed-action-is-warranted-unless-economic-outlook-changes.html
Federal Reserve Bank of New York
President  William Dudley  said the outlook for U.S. job growth
and inflation is “unacceptable” and that the Fed will probably
need to take action to spur the recovery and avert deflation.  “We have tools that can provide additional stimulus at
costs that do not appear to be prohibitive,” Dudley, who serves
as vice chairman of the Fed’s policy-setting Open Market
Committee, said today in a  speech  to business journalists in New
York. “Further action is likely to be warranted unless the
economic outlook evolves in a way that makes me more confident
that we will see better outcomes for both employment and
inflation before too long.”  Dudley’s remarks are one of the clearest signs that policy
makers will start a second round of unconventional monetary
easing as soon as the FOMC’s next meeting Nov. 2-3. While other
Fed officials voiced a range of views in speeches this week,
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday that the central bank
has a duty to aid the U.S. economy as the jobless rate holds
near 10 percent.  Purchases of more assets by the Fed are “pretty close to a
done deal,” said  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont
Securities LLC in Stamford, Connecticut, and a former Fed
researcher. The central bank is making the case that
“unemployment is high, inflation is low, we need to start
moving the needle in the right direction and even if it doesn’t
move it by a lot you just do it.”  Fed’s Evans  Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago President  Charles Evans 
also said today he favors further monetary accommodation as “we
still have a long road ahead before we catch up to the level of
activity we would have achieved in the absence of a crisis, or
any other shock.” Evans doesn’t vote on the rate-setting FOMC
this year.  Lowering long-term  interest rates  by restarting purchases
of Treasuries or mortgage debt would have a “significant”
effect on the economy by supporting the value of homes and
stocks, making housing and refinancing mortgages more affordable
and reducing the cost of capital for businesses, Dudley, 57,
said to a Society of American Business Editors and Writers
conference.  “Both the current levels of  unemployment  and inflation and
the timeframe over which they are likely to return to levels
consistent with our mandate are unacceptable,” Dudley said.
“The longer this situation prevails and the U.S. economy is
stuck with the current level of slack and disinflationary
pressure, the greater the likelihood that a further shock could
push us still further from our dual mandate objectives and
closer to outright deflation.”  Fed ‘Not Happy’  Dudley’s speech “just drove home the point that the Fed is
not happy with the current rate of economic growth and the
below-targeted rate of price inflation,” said  John Lonski ,
chief economist of Moody’s Capital Markets Group in New York.  Lonski said he expects the central bank to announce bond
purchases at its November meeting.  Responding to questions afterward, Dudley said he’s not
concerned the U.S. will relapse into recession and that he’s
expecting the current 2 percent growth to “gradually
accelerate.”  “What I’m less confident about is how fast we’re going to
get back to our objectives” of price stability and full
employment, he said.  The yield on 2-year Treasury notes fell to a record low as
a report showed U.S. manufacturing growth slowed. The 10-year
note yield was little changed at 2.52 percent at 11:20 a.m. in
New York, according to BGCantor Market Data. The 2-year note
yield was little changed at 0.42 percent after earlier touching
the record low of 0.4066 percent.  Buying Bonds  Paul Gifford , chief investment officer at 1st Source
Investment Advisors in South Bend, Indiana, said he’s been
buying long-term bonds during the last two weeks because he’s
convinced the Fed will continue to stimulate the economy.  “I do believe the Fed has every intent to keep rates low
and the market believes them,” said Gifford, who manages $1
billion in fixed-income assets. “We continue to get weak
economic data and if you see that continue then you’ll see more
Fed actions.”  The risk that inflation expectations rise because of asset
purchases can be countered by a “credible” plan from the Fed
to exit the unprecedented stimulus with tools such as term
deposit accounts, Dudley said. Also, “there is nothing to worry
about” on expanding Fed exposure to higher short-term rates, he
said.  Dudley said that $500 billion of purchases, for example,
would add as much stimulus as reducing the Fed’s benchmark rate
0.5 percentage point to 0.75 percentage point, depending on how
long investors expect the Fed to hold the assets.  Another Option  Another option is for the Fed to announce an explicit
inflation goal and then, if price increases are too slow,
potentially aim to overshoot the goal in future years, he said.
One risk is that investors may “mistakenly” conclude that the
Fed was “tinkering with its long-run inflation objective,”
undermining the change in policy.  Dudley’s comments differ from the FOMC’s Sept. 21 statement
that it’s prepared to ease policy “if needed” to spur growth
and achieve its mandate of stable prices and full employment.  The  jobless rate  has been above 9 percent since the worst
recession since the Great Depression ended in June 2009.
Inflation measures are “somewhat below” levels the FOMC judges
consistent with its mandate, the Fed panel said in its statement
last month.  Plosser and Lockhart  Dudley declined to comment on what he’ll advocate at the
next meeting or to predict its outcome. Some policy makers may
not be on board: Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  said
Sept. 29 that he doesn’t see how additional asset purchases will
help employment in the near term, while  Dennis Lockhart  of the
Atlanta Fed said Sept. 28 that he hadn’t made up his mind yet on
easing policy.  “We’ve fleshed out the camps over the course of the
week,” Pierpont’s Stanley said. “My sense is focusing on
anyone other than Bernanke at this point is probably getting you
off the ball” and “you can view a lot of what Dudley’s saying
almost as if he’s a proxy for Bernanke.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
 Caroline Salas  in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  