-- Dutch Politician Wilders Faces Hate Speech Trial Over Comments on Islam
-- B y   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l
-- 2010-10-01T10:45:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/dutch-anti-islam-leader-wilders-who-supports-government-to-face-hate-trial.html
Geert Wilders , a Dutch political
party leader who has agreed to support the first minority
government in the country since World War II, will go on trial
in an Amsterdam court next week for inciting hatred and
insulting Muslims.  Wilders, head of the Freedom Party, called the Koran
“fascist” and compared it to  Adolf Hitler ’s book Mein Kampf in
a 2007 Dutch  newspaper  editorial, which led to complaints. A
year later, he released his movie “Fitna,” in which he calls
on Muslims to rip out “hate-preaching” verses from the book.  “The Court of Appeal considers criminal prosecution
obvious for the insult of Islamic worshippers,” when Wilders
compared parts of Islam with Nazism, it ruled last year,
overturning a 2008 decision not to charge him.  The trial coincides with the formation of a new minority
government led by the Liberal Party and Christian Democratic
Alliance, which relies on Wilder’s Freedom Party to pass
legislation. The government plans to ban full-face Islamic
veils, a key issue for Wilders’ party, which more than doubled
its representation in parliament in June elections.  Prosecutors, who charged Wilders a year ago, said more than
40 people reported his editorial comments to the police while
others complained about his film.  “If you voice your opinion you run the risk of being
prosecuted,” Wilders has said on his  website . He didn’t return
a text message today seeking comment ahead of the trial.  15-Minute Film  Wilders, 47, is charged with insulting a group of people,
inciting hatred and inciting discrimination with his comments,
the court said on its  website . Wilders may face as many as two
years in prison or be fined as much as 19,000 euros ($26,000).  Wilders released his film “Fitna” on the  Internet  in
March 2008. The 15-minute movie features verses from the Koran
alongside images of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. The movie
led to protests in majority-Muslim countries including Indonesia
and Pakistan and prompted calls for a boycott of Dutch products
in Malaysia.  Wilders, who is under constant police protection, is
scheduled to appear in court in Amsterdam on Oct. 4 at 9 a.m.
local time. The entire trial  will be webcast , which is unusual
in the Netherlands, and a ruling is expected Nov. 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jurjen van de Pol  in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net . 