-- Economic Recovery, Outlook `Moderate' Czech Inflation Risks, Minutes Show
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2010-10-01T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/economic-recovery-outlook-moderate-czech-inflation-risks-minutes-show.html
The Czech Republic’s economic
recovery and the outlook pose “moderate” inflation risks which
don’t require an  increase  in interest rates at present, minutes
from the central bank’s Sept. 23 policy meeting showed.  The Prague-based Ceska Narodni Banka left the two-week
repurchase rate at a record-low 0.75 percent for a third meeting
last week, keeping borrowing costs a quarter-point lower than
the  European Central Bank’s  main rate.  Board member  Eva Zamrazilova  cast the first vote for a rate
increase at the September meeting after two years of cuts, when
the central bank reduced the main rate by 3 percentage points as
the country suffered its worst recession in two decades.
Zamrazilova wanted a quarter-point increase in the main rate.  “It was repeatedly said that the current level of monetary
policy rates was low and could present a risk in the long-term
from the financial stability perspective,” the minutes,
published on the central bank’s website today, showed.  The “prevailing opinion” among board members was that the
deciding factors for current settings were the macroeconomic
situation at home and internationally and the outlook. “In this
regard, it was said that the risks of the forecast were
moderate.”  Inflation  was at 1.9 percent in August, unchanged from a
16-month high in July. The bank sees headline inflation
exceeding its 2 percent target this year before dropping to 1.9
percent in the third and fourth quarters of 2011.  The Czech  economy , where exports account for about 70
percent of output, last year emerged from the worst recession
since the end of communism in 1989.  Gross domestic product 
expanded an annual 2.4 percent in the three months through June,
the  fastest pace  in eight quarters.  GDP data showed 0.8 percent growth of household consumption
in the second quarter, which the central bank said was a
“surprising” increase.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Peter Laca  in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  