-- Correa Vows to Purge Ecuador Police After Alleged Coup Attempt
-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l   a n d   H e l e n   M u r p h y
-- 2010-10-01T04:49:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/ecuador-s-correa-escorted-from-hospital-as-protesters-mass-around-building.html
Ecuador’s security forces freed
President  Rafael Correa  in a raid on a hospital where police
held him captive as part of wage dispute that regional leaders
labeled an organized coup attempt.  “I’m not going to negotiate absolutely anything,” Correa
said from the presidential palace after being freed amid gunfire,
according to remarks broadcast on the Telesur network. “I told
them I was leaving here as president or a cadaver.”  At least one person died in the clashes, according to the
Telesur boadcast. Correa said police had “stabbed me in the
back” and called their behavior an act of treason.  The military raid came after Ecuador declared a state of
emergency when hundreds of police protesting wage cuts blocked
roads, shut the airport for several hours and sprayed teargas on
Correa. Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  backed Correa’s claim
that he was the target of an organized coup, and led other
regional leaders to Buenos Aires for a meeting to show support.  President Correa was taken to a hospital after scuffling
with the police and was trapped there as officers surrounded the
facility, refusing to let his personal security forces escort
him out of the building. Looters ransacked banks, supermarkets
and  shopping malls  in the port city of Guayaquil, the country’s
largest. The Red Cross said 51 people were injured in the
violence.  ‘Won’t Back Down’  “Here I am. If they want to kill me, go ahead,” Correa
said earlier after protesters hurled a tear-gas canister at him
and doused him with hot water. “I won’t back down.”  Ecuador, which has defaulted on $3.2 billion of
international debt since 2008, has seen three presidents ousted
in the past 13 years. Correa, a 47-year-old economist who took
office in 2007, brought a modicum of stability to the
politically tumultuous nation of 14 million, becoming the first
president to win two terms when he won re-election last year.  Police and soldiers began rebelling after congress last
night passed measures that would delay automatic promotions and
slow  salary  increases. Correa defended his policies, which he
says are part of a drive to eliminate government waste.  Correa’s claims his presidency is at risk may be an attempt
to drum up support among his allies, said Andres Ochoa, a
researcher at the Washington-based  Council on Hemispheric
Affairs .  ‘Protest Gone Wrong’  “There is no clear leader trying to topple Correa,” Ochoa
said from Quito. “This is a protest gone wrong.”  Correa had a 67 percent approval rating in Quito and 59
percent approval in Guayaquil, according to Habitus poll of 800
adults published Sept. 15. The survey had a margin of error of 4
percentage points.  The opposition in recent weeks has stepped up its attacks
as economic growth trails its neighbors and Correa’s threats to
expropriate assets in the oil industry, the country´s biggest,
deter private investment. Correa also angered opponents by
pushing through an oil law by decree and ignoring lawmakers’
objections to his plan to broaden the state’s control over
universities and local budgets.  South America’s seventh-biggest economy grew 1.9 percent in
the second quarter from the previous quarter, the worst
performance except for Venezuela, which is in recession.  Chavez, who spoke with Correa by telephone before traveling
to Buenos Aires, said the life of his ally in the eight-nation
Bolivarian Alliance for the Americas is in danger.  ‘Very Naive’  “It would be very naive to think that this is motivated
only by salaries,” Chavez said in comments broadcast on Telesur.
“We are facing a new attack from the fascist beasts --it’s a
coup attempt.”  Colombia and Peru closed their border in a show of
solidarity, and the Washington-based  Organization of American
States  adopted a resolution to “defend democracy.”  The U.S. State Department, while staying away from regional
leaders’ warnings of a coup attempt, said it “fully supports”
Correa and the peaceful restoration of order. The U.S. Embassy
in Quito urged Americans to stay home and postpone travel.  Regional leaders are flying to Buenos Aires for an
emergency summit of the Union of South American Nations to
discuss the political crisis.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Ecuadorean dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries widened the most since Nov.
2008, a month before the country announced it would default on
$3.2 billion of international debt, making its sovereign debt
the riskiest among 15 emerging markets tracked by JPMorgan Chase
& Co., according to the bank’s EMBI+ indexes.  Spread Widens  The country’s sovereign spread increased 18.34 percentage
point, to 10.33 percentage points at 12:06 a.m. New York time,
according to JPMorgan’s EMBI+ index. Ecuador’s spread has
widened 2.13 percentage points in the third quarter, compared
with 0.6 percentage point drop for the index.  The yield on Ecuador’s 9.375 percent bonds maturing in 2015
rose 1 basis point to 11.78 percent, according to Bloomberg
prices. The bond’s price fell 0.29 cent to 90.82 cents on the
dollar.  Jaime Nebot , the mayor of Guayaquil and Correa´s fiercest
opponent, denounced the protests or any attempt to topple the
government.  Gen. Luis Ernesto Gonzalez, commander of the armed forces,
reaffirmed troops’ loyalty to Correa even while calling on the
president to reconsider the pay and benefit cuts for the
protesting cops.  Military Request  “We emphatically request that the law be revised or left
without effect so that the rights of public service workers,
military and police aren’t affected and so that the Ecuadorean
state can return to normality,” Gonzalez said in comments
broadcast on state television.  About 300 members of the armed forces stormed Quito´s
airport, blocking the airstrip and closing the facility for nine
hours.  PetroEcuador, the South American country’s state-owned oil
company and biggest source of export revenue, said operations
were normal as the military guarded refineries and oil fields.  Ecuador is the smallest member of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting countries. The country pumped 1.6 percent of
OPEC’s total output this month, a Bloomberg News survey showed
today. Ecuador accounts for 2.1 percent of U.S. oil imports,
according to the most recent monthly data from the Energy
Department.  Ecuador has a Caa3 long-term foreign currency credit rating
from Moody’s Investors Service, eight levels below investment
grade, while Standard and Poor’s rates the country’s debt B-,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Ecuador’s credit rating shouldn’t be affected by the
protests because it “already implies a high possibility of
default,”  Erich Arispe , a New York- based analyst at Fitch,
said today in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nathan Gill  in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net ;
 Alexander Emery  in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  