-- Edison Seeks to Buy Power Plants, 20% Targetting Share of Turkish Market
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2010-10-01T09:07:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/edison-seeks-to-buy-power-plants-20-targetting-share-of-turkish-market.html
Edison SpA  plans to buy power plants
from the Turkish state next year and will with partners target a
20 percent share of the country’s electricity market, Executive
Vice President Roberto Poti said.  Italy’s second-biggest power producer will buy plants from
the government’s asset sale agency, Poti, who’s head of
international projects at the Milan-based company, said in an
interview yesterday in Istanbul.  Turkey plans to sell four coal and gas power plants next
year with a capacity exceeding 3,000 megawatts,  Ahmet Aksu , head
of the  asset sale agency , said in June. They are part of a
16,000-megawatt portfolio that may be sold to European and
Middle Eastern investors over the next few years,  Hasan Koktas ,
head of Turkey’s energy regulator, said in March.  “Edison plans to expand its electricity production and
trade activities in the eastern Mediterranean and Middle East,”
Poti said. “Turkey is the best market and now is the proper
time for this as its economy and energy demand are growing. We
have 20 percent of Italy and 15 to 20 percent in the Greek
market. We aim for 20 percent in Turkey too in the long-term.”  Edison, which has investments in Greece, Norway and Egypt,
plans to find a “reliable Turkish industrial company” for the
first privatization auctions and will seek an international
partner for “bigger investment in Turkey,” he said. The
company hasn’t started talks with potential partners and he
didn’t say how much it plans to invest in Turkey.  ITGI Pipeline  “We’re interested in hydro and coal-fired power plants”
to help Edison diversify its portfolio from gas, he said. “We
can also build power plants later.”  Separately, Poti said that the company’s Interconnection
Turkey Greece Italy, or ITGI, pipeline project is in a better
position to compete for gas from Azerbaijan than the rival
 Nabucco  development. ITGI is being developed with Greek utility
Depa SA and Turkey’s pipeline company Botas to carry Azeri gas
to Italy through Turkey and Greece.  “In the long run ITGI and Nabucco are complimentary
projects, but they will compete to get 8 billion cubic meters of
Azeri gas from 2016 or 2017,” he said.  Demand for Nabucco’s gas may be crimped by Germany’s
decision to extend operations of nuclear power plants by an
average 12 years as well as Hungarian shale gas output, he said.  “Therefore there are more concerns about the guarantee for
the volume of gas to be purchased” by Nabucco, he said.
“Germany won’t build gas-fired power plants any longer.”  Less Cost  It’s easier to provide a guarantee for gas for ITGI than
Nabucco, he said. The link will carry 8 billion to 9 billion
cubic meters to Italy and 2 billion to 3 billion cubic meters to
Greece annually. It will use Turkey’s existing lines and build
two lines through Greece and the Adriatic Sea for less than 1
billion euros, Poti said.  “ITGI will definitely have much less gas transit costs
than Nabucco.” ITGI will be built after securing Azeri gas, he
said.  Edison doesn’t plan to participate in a second round of
tenders for oil and gas fields by Iraq, he said. An Edison-led
group that included Turkiye Petrolleri AO, Turkey’s state oil
and gas company, failed in a tender last year for Iraq’s Akkas
gas fields.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ercan Ersoy  in Istanbul 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 