-- Emanuel, Obama's Top Aide Departs for Chicago; Rouse Becomes Staff Chief
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2010-10-01T17:16:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/emanuel-obama-s-top-aide-departs-for-chicago-rouse-becomes-staff-chief.html
Rahm Emanuel  ended his 20-month
tenure as President  Barack Obama ’s chief of staff today to run
for mayor of Chicago as the president named  Peter Rouse , a
longtime loyalist, as his interim replacement in one of the most
influential jobs in the White House.  “We are all very excited for Rahm as he takes on a new
challenge for which he is extraordinarily well qualified,”
Obama said a departure ceremony in the East Room of the White
House, calling it “the least suspenseful announcement of all
time.”  In a high-profile changing of the guard, Obama is
relinquishing the hard-charging Emanuel and elevating senior
adviser  Pete Rouse  to interim chief of staff, whom he said is
“a skillful problem-solver” and “wise, skillful and long-time
counselor.”  “There’s a saying around the White House: ‘Let’s let Pete
fix it,’” Obama said.  Emanuel, 50, a former Illinois congressman known as a
combative negotiator, is heading to Chicago in a bid for a job
that’s been a long-time goal after spearheading major Obama
initiatives, including overhaul of health care and revamping the
financial industry.  Rouse, 64, is more reserved by contrast, a troubleshooter
who prefers a more behind-the-scenes role. He’s built a
reservoir of trusted relationships at the White House and in
former years in Congress that help him navigate Washington.  101st Senator  Rouse, who has more than 30 years of experience in public
service, was a former top aide to then-Senate Majority Leader
 Tom Daschle  of South Dakota. Rouse was known as “the 101st
senator” for his influence.  The two “have slightly different styles,” Obama said,
referring to Emanuel, known partly for his profanity.  “I pointed out that Rahm, when he was a kid, had lost part
of his finger in an accident, and it was his middle finger, so
it rendered him mute for a while,” Obama said to laughter.  Even so, he said, Emanuel deserves considerable credit.  “It’s fair to say that we could not have accomplished what
we’ve accomplished without Rahm’s leadership, from preventing a
second Depression to passing historic health care and financial
reform legislation, to restoring America’s leadership in the
world,” Obama said.  For almost the first half of his presidency, Obama began
and ended his day in meetings with Emanuel, “a great friend,”
who he said offered candid views and insightful opinions.  “I’ve intruded on his life at almost any hour of the day,
any day of the week, with just enormous challenges,” Obama
said.  Emanuel thanked Obama for allowing him to serve in “these
consequential times.”  ‘The Tough Calls’  Addressing the president, Emanuel said, “You had the guts
to make the tough calls that stopped the free-fall and saved our
country from a second Great Depression.”  He said Chicago is the “greatest city in the greatest
country in the world” and recalled his family immigrating to
the U.S. “for a better life for their children.”  Pausing and choking back tears, Emanuel said: “Both my
parents raised me to give something back to the country and the
community that has given us so much. And I want to thank you for
the opportunity to repay,” with public service.  In the handoff to Rouse, Emanuel lauded his replacement,
saying he “commands the respect of everyone in this building.”  Emanuel  served three terms in the U.S. House representing
part of Chicago’s North Side and adjacent suburbs before being
picked by Obama for the White House job that began in January
2009. He said in April that being mayor of his hometown was a
longtime aspiration, though he wouldn’t run unless Mayor  Richard M. Daley  decided not to seek reelection.  Daley announced Sept. 7 that he wouldn’t run for a seventh
term.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Roger Runningen  in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  