-- Emanuel Would Need to Explain $17 Million Bank Pay
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2010-10-01T15:45:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/emanuel-mayor-campaign-will-need-to-explain-17-million-bank-compensation.html
President  Barack Obama  made  Rahm Emanuel  a global name by appointing him White House chief of
staff. President  Bill Clinton  and Chicago Mayor  Richard M. Daley 
helped make him rich.  The wealth and connections Emanuel amassed while working
for all three men give him advantages -- and liabilities -- as
he explores running for a job he has said he always wanted,
mayor of Chicago.  Emanuel, 50, earned at least $17 million in three years as
an investment banker after leaving the Clinton White House,
public records show. While that part of his resume didn’t hurt
him when he first ran for Congress in 2002, any new bid for
public office would come amid criticism of Wall Street’s
excesses and a U.S.  unemployment  rate of 9.6 percent.  “It didn’t have traction because it was before the markets
went down,” said Nancy Kaszak, who lost to Emanuel in the 2002
Democratic primary to represent part of Chicago’s north side and
northwest suburbs. “There are a lot of people who are very
angry now because of the finances they are facing. I think it is
a potentially more harmful issue now.”  Obama announced Emanuel’s departure at the White House
today along with the naming of  Peter Rouse  as his new chief of
staff. Emanuel already is  testing  voter reaction to his
investment banking success and ties to City Hall in the polling
he has done, according to the Chicago Sun-Times newspaper.  ‘Bittersweet Day’  “This is a bittersweet day here at the White House,” Obama
said. “We are all very excited for Rahm as he takes on a new
challenge for which he is extraordinarily well qualified.”  Emanuel said he is excited to be heading home to “the
greatest city in the greatest country in the world.”  “I’m energized by the prospect of new challenges and eager
to see what I can do to make our hometown even greater,” he
said.  Chicago is facing an  estimated  $654.7 million deficit in
its $3.39 billion budget for 2011 and had an unemployment rate
of 10.8 percent in August, down from a high of 12.3 percent in
January.  Daley, who on Sept. 7 announced he wouldn’t run for a
seventh term, filled holes in the current $3.12 billion budget
by using money from the earlier privatization of parking meters,
garages and a tollway. Those shifts and the failure to trim
labor and other costs prompted Fitch Ratings to cut the rating
for the nation’s third-largest city two levels to AA from AAA on
Aug. 5.  Political Drag  Emanuel’s Wall Street ties and time spent on mortgage
lender  Freddie Mac ’s board a decade ago could prove to be a
political drag, said  Donald Haider , an unsuccessful Chicago
mayoral candidate in 1987 who is a professor at Northwestern
University’s  Kellogg School of Management .  Yet the money Emanuel earned from the contacts he made as a
Daley fundraiser and later as Clinton’s political director and
senior adviser -- someone who routinely interacted with
corporate executives -- would bring advantages to a mayoral bid.  “Having resources to spend on your own campaign is a
wonderful elixir, and it scares off a hell of a lot of people,”
Haider said. “Rahm’s argument is, ‘Here I am, I can deliver. I
have all this clout I bring from Washington at a time when the
city is strapped.’”  Daley, 68, is the person who launched Emanuel on a path of
political power and later fortune. Emanuel’s rapid ascension in
national politics was rooted in his skill as a fundraiser,
initially for Daley in his first successful mayoral bid in 1989
and then for Clinton’s presidential campaign in 1992.  Washington Connections  The route Emanuel later took from government service to
private-sector wealth is common for people with top Washington
connections. How quickly he made his millions is rare, said Dave
Levinthal, a spokesman for the Washington-based  Center for
Responsive Politics , which tracks the revolving door between
government and business.  “That’s NFL salary kind of money,” Levinthal said.  Emanuel declined an interview request through a White House
spokesman,  Ben LaBolt .  After leaving the White House in 1998, Emanuel went to work
for one of Clinton’s top fundraisers, the late  Bruce Wasserstein . Emanuel tapped the contacts he made in government
to close deals while working in the Chicago office of
 Wasserstein Perella & Co .  Merger Layoffs  Emanuel’s largest transaction came about a year after he
left the White House when he represented Unicom, the former
corporate parent of what was Commonwealth Edison, in an $8.2
billion merger with Pennsylvania-based Peco Energy Co. The
merger, completed the year after Daley criticized ComEd for
service problems, created Chicago-based  Exelon Corp. , the
largest U.S. producer of nuclear power.  Exelon cut 3,350 jobs -- about 11 percent of its workforce
-- within a year of the merger. Another 1,900 jobs, primarily
management and professional personnel, were cut by 2006.  The merger saved Chicago jobs by expanding Exelon’s
footprint while keeping its headquarters in the city, said a
person close to Emanuel who asked not to be named. His business
experience will help him solve Chicago’s budget problems, the
person said.  Kaszak, who said she would support Emanuel if he ended up
being the “best candidate,” said her 2002 campaign held a news
conference near a Commonwealth Edison building in Chicago to
criticize Emanuel’s involvement with the deal. She said few
reporters showed up.  Consumer Impact  “We thought that would be a point where voters would
connect,” she said. “The deals he was cutting had implications
for workers and consumers.”  An Emanuel campaign could be shaped by a new Illinois
 campaign finance law  that will  cap  individual contributions to
candidates at $5,000 and corporate and union contributions at
$10,000 for each election cycle. It takes effect Jan. 1.  Some executives outside Chicago are so eager to see Emanuel
out of the White House that they’ve offered to write checks for
a potential mayoral bid, said one Chicago chief executive who
has been asked to hold fundraisers for him. The executive 
requested that his name not be used out of concern for
retribution by Emanuel.  The former congressman is the early favorite of Chicago
business leaders, the executive said, though they would gladly
shift support to another viable candidate because they’re unsure
what Emanuel’s priorities are other than getting elected.  Nov. 22 is the last day to file nomination papers for the
Feb. 22 Chicago mayoral election. If no candidate gets more than
50 percent of the vote, there will be an April 5 runoff for the
top two vote-getters.  Tapping Campaign Fund  If Emanuel enters the race, he also could tap the $1.1
million he has in his congressional campaign  fund .  Haider estimated that a total of $100 million will be spent
by candidates in the Chicago mayor’s race. Daley spent $4.6
million in 2007 to defeat two opponents.  In Chicago, Emanuel has an especially close relationship
with the investment firm Madison Dearborn Partners LLC, which
was the top source of contributions during his four
congressional campaigns, according to the Center for Responsive
Politics.  John Canning , Madison Dearborn’s chairman, befriended
Emanuel when he was working as an investment banker in Chicago.
As a congressman, Emanuel visited the firm’s offices in 2007 to
hear concerns about legislation involving buyout firms and hedge
funds. Canning didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment on a
potential Emanuel mayoral bid.  The  securities and investment industry  was Emanuel’s
biggest sector for campaign contributions during his
congressional career, according to the center’s data.  Pelosi Field General  In 2005, House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  tapped Emanuel to run
the  Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee , where he again
leveraged his financial industry contacts. He recruited
candidates and raised money, leading the Democrats to regain
control of the House in 2006.  When he first ran for Congress to fill a seat being vacated
by  Rod Blagojevich , who was running for governor that year,
Emanuel  spent  $450,000 of his own money, or about 14 percent of
his total fundraising, the center’s data shows.  Emanuel has investments and other assets worth $6.7 million
to $15.2 million, according to a White House financial
disclosure form he filed in May that allows for a broad range of
valuations.  He reported spending between $10,000 and $15,000 on legal
fees during 2009 in connection with the probe of Blagojevich,
who is scheduled to stand retrial as early as January on
corruption charges. Emanuel may be called to testify because he
had conversations with Blagojevich about who should be picked to
fill the U.S. Senate seat Obama vacated.  That legal tangle isn’t Emanuel’s only complication. Chicago
 Alderman Walter Burnett , who represents part of the city’s west
side, said his wealth will probably be an issue.  “In this atmosphere of economic challenges and people
losing their jobs, people in my area of the city are not
impressed with people who have stuff,” Burnett said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
 Tim Jones  in Chicago at 
 Tjones58@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net . 