-- Emerging Markets Head for Record Bond Sales as Yields Plunge
-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2010-10-01T09:16:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/emerging-markets-head-for-record-sales-of-bonds-as-yields-plunge-to-lows.html
Emerging-market borrowers are on
course to sell more bonds than ever this year after yields hit 
record lows  and developing economies rebounded faster from the
credit crisis than advanced nations.  Governments and companies in developing countries including
 Vale SA , the world’s biggest iron-ore exporter, and  Korea
Electric Power Corp. , South Korea’s largest electricity
producer, borrowed $196 billion from July to September, the most
for any quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Bond
sales surged from $157 billion in the second quarter of 2010 as
yields in developing countries slid to an all-time low of 5.4
percent on Aug. 23 from as high as 6.8 percent in February,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ index  shows.  Emerging market borrowers from India’s Rural
Electrification Corp. to OAO Gazprom, Russia’s largest company,
are in the process of selling at least $13.6 billion of bonds,
adding to the $521 billion issued so far in 2010, which is 15
percent above the same period last year, Bloomberg data show.
More issuers will rush to the market to lock in the low rates
while they last, according to  Henry Stipp  at Threadneedle Asset
Management.  “There’s going to be more issuance for sure as long as
interest rates in the United States continue to be low,” said
Stipp, who oversees about $98 billion of assets as a fund
manager at London-based Threadneedle. “They’ll pre-empt 2011 if
they can.”  Fed Stimulus  Yields plummeted as U.S. Treasury bond rates fell in the
third quarter on the prospect that the Federal Reserve will make
a new round of bond purchases to stimulate the economy. The
yield on 10-year U.S. Treasury notes declined to 2.9 percent
yesterday from 4.6 percent at the end of 2009.  Investors reduced the extra yield demanded from developing
nation bonds over U.S. Treasuries to as little as 263 basis
points on Aug. 9 from 355 basis points on May 25, according to
the JPMorgan’s EMBI+ index, as faster economic growth rates
buoyed confidence. Emerging-market economies are set to grow by
6.8 percent in 2010, more than double the 2.6 percent pace for
the developed world, the  International Monetary Fund  said July
7. Asia will lead, with 9.2 percent growth.  Companies accounted for more than 80 percent of bonds sold
in the third quarter, a jump from 50 percent in 2000, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Shift to Asia  Vale, based in Rio de Janeiro, sold $1.75 billion of bonds
on Sept. 8, in its biggest offering in four years, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Rising metal demand in China helped
the company’s second-quarter sales almost double to $9.9 billion
from $5.1 billion a year ago,  Vale  said on July 30. Its dollar
bonds due in 2020 yielded 4.3 percent on Sept. 30, down from 4.6
percent on the first day of trading on Sept. 13.  Korea Electric Power sold $700 million of 2015 bonds on
Sept. 27. They yielded 3 percent yesterday, little changed from
their trading debut the day before. The Seoul-based utility said
in an e-mailed statement on Sept. 29 that it had agreed to buy a
$400 million stake in a Philippine power plant from BG Group
Plc.  “The emerging market debt issuance trend is likely to
continue for the rest of this year and next, at least, with
shifts in the composition of the issuance,” said  Jeffrey Sacks ,
a portfolio manager who helps oversee $3 billion in emerging-
market assets at Principal Global Investors Europe in London.
The fastest growth will be from companies, particularly in China
and India, he said.  Sales Glut  Rural Electrification Corp., India’s state-run lender to
power projects, may sell as much as $500 million of five- or
seven-year bonds in yen or dollars as early as November,
Finance Director  Hari Das Khunteta  said in a phone interview
from New Delhi on Sept. 14. Gazprom, the world’s biggest
producer of natural gas, plans to sell its first international
bonds in more than a year by the end of 2010, Yana Kolosovskaya,
the company’s head of loans and guarantees, said in an interview
in London on Sept. 21.  About 37 percent of the third quarter’s emerging-market
bond sales were by Chinese or Indian issuers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The proportion was up from 32 percent in
the first quarter.  While emerging-market sovereign bond yields tumbled from
6.7 percent on May 25, the rally in developing country debt may
be ending, according to  Regis Chatellier , emerging-market
strategist at Morgan Stanley & Co. in London. The glut from the
ongoing supply could stunt the rally, he said.  U.S. Stimulus  “We’ve seen record issuance this month and that’s probably
weighing on the market right now,” said Chatellier.  Concern that the global economy may weaken, particularly in
the U.S., could also reduce appetite for emerging-market bonds,
he said. A slowdown in the U.S. may curb demand for exports,
while a rebound may push yields for Treasuries and emerging-
market bonds higher, Chatellier said. The spread over Treasuries
could widen beyond 3.4 percentage points in coming weeks, he
said.  Senior officials from the U.S. Federal Reserve publicly
disagreed on Sept. 29 over whether to step up monetary stimulus
to revive the economy. Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren  said
further action should be considered to cut unemployment and
raise inflation. Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  said
the central bank risked sacrificing its inflation-fighting
credibility if it loosened policy too much by buying U.S.
government bonds.  “The sustained low rate environment is likely to keep
encouraging both sovereigns and corporates to seek cheap
funding,” said Sacks at Principal Global.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Webb  in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  