-- Emerging-Market Stocks Rise, Extending Longest Weekly Rally in Six Months
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 2010-10-01T21:47:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/emerging-market-stocks-rise-extending-longest-weekly-rally-in-six-months.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, sending
the benchmark index to the highest level in 27 months, and
currencies strengthened as reports showed China’s manufacturing
grew and developing-nation fund inflows hit an 11-month high.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  climbed 1 percent to
1,086.09 by 5 p.m. New York time, a fifth straight weekly
advance.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index  rose 0.5
percent to a two-year high as India’s rupee gained 1.1 percent.
The extra yield investors demand to hold emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries fell six basis points to 2.71 percentage
points, the lowest level in five weeks, JPMorgan Chase & Co.
data show.  China’s manufacturing expanded at the fastest pace in four
months in September, adding to signs that growth is stabilizing
in the world’s fastest-expanding major economy. Investors poured
$4.3 billion into emerging-market equity funds in the week ended
Sept. 29, the biggest amount since October 2009, and the funds
are poised for record annual inflows, data compiled by EPFR
Global showed.  “It’s a liquidity-driven market that’s driving investor
confidence, and with the troubles that we see in Europe and the
U.S., more money is basically flowing toward Asia,” said  Pankaj Kumar , who oversees about $560 million as chief investment
officer of Kurnia Insurans Malaysia Bhd. “We are in a super-
sweet spot and we’re getting all the attention.”  The 21-nation  MSCI index  climbed for three consecutive days
and completed its longest weekly stretch of gains since March.
The gauge rallied 17 percent in the third quarter, its best
quarterly performance in a year. Developing economies will
expand 6.4 percent next year, compared with 2.4 percent growth
in advanced nations, the International Monetary Fund forecast in
July.  Fed Outlook  The MSCI Emerging index climbed to its highest level of the
day after Federal Reserve Bank of New York President William
Dudley said the central bank has options to add stimulus without
major drawbacks, one of the clearest signs that policy makers
will start a second round of unconventional monetary easing. His
comments coincided with a U.S. government report showing
consumer spending rose more than forecast in August as incomes
climbed.  China’s purchasing managers’ index rose to 53.8 from 51.7
in August, the country’s logistics federation and statistics
bureau said in an e-mail. The median forecast of 15 economists
 surveyed  by Bloomberg News was 52.5. Readings above 50 indicate
expansions. Chinese exchanges were closed today for a holiday.  Goldman Growth Estimate  India’s rupee rose to the strongest level versus the dollar
in six months, while the  Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index 
climbed 1.9 percent to the highest level since January 2008.
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised its growth forecast for India,
saying the economy is likely to expand 8.5 percent this
financial year, up from its previous estimate of 8.2 percent.  Russia’s  Micex Index  advanced 1.1 percent, the highest
level since April, as oil and metal prices rallied on the
Chinese manufacturing data. OAO Lukoil added 0.9 percent, while
OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel, the nation’s biggest mining company,
rose 1 percent.  The  Bovespa  stock index gained, completing the biggest
weekly advance since July, as a drop in Brazilian manufacturing
eased bets for higher borrowing costs and commodities gained.
 PDG Realty SA Empreendimentos & Participacoes , the Brazilian
homebuilder, surged 4.2 percent.  Indonesia’s  Jakarta Composite Index  advanced to a record
for a sixth straight day, while the Thai SET Index rose 0.3
percent to the highest level since November 1996. South Korea’s
Kospi Index climbed 0.2 percent to the highest since May 2008.  The Hungarian forint rallied to the strongest level in four
months on speculation local government elections on Oct. 3 will
help solidify support for Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s
government, which has pledged to reduce the budget deficit. The
forint gained 0.9 percent versus the euro for the best gain
among major emerging-market currencies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
 Chan Tien Hin  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at   lchua@bloomberg.net  