-- Mercedes Tops BMW, Lexus as U.S. Luxury Sales Contest Tightens
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2010-10-01T22:50:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/mercedes-tops-bmw-lexus-as-u-s-luxury-sales-contest-tightens.html
The race to be the year’s top-selling
luxury automobile brand in the U.S. narrowed as Daimler AG’s
Mercedes-Benz and Bayerische Motoren Werke AG’s namesake line
both gained ground on  Toyota Motor Corp. ’s Lexus.  “Lexus has been by far the luxury leader in this market
and now Mercedes and BMW have closed that gap pretty rapidly,”
 Joe Barker , an industry analyst with IHS Automotive, a
Lexington, Massachusetts-based researcher, said before the
release. “The sales race will come down to the wire -- it will
come down right to the month of December.”  Sales of Mercedes brand cars and sport-utility vehicles
rose 17 percent to 19,862 as deliveries of its E-Class sedan
continued to propel the brand, Stuttgart, Germany-based Daimler
said in a statement. The results ended a three-month win streak
for BMW and halved Lexus’ lead for the year.  “We’re going to continue in the same direction as we have
for the first nine months,”  Ernst Lieb , chief executive officer
of Mercedes-Benz USA, said in an interview yesterday. “Will it
be necessarily again another 22 percent up or so? Maybe not, but
we definitely see a two-digit increase for the remainder of the
year.”  BMW’s namesake brand’s deliveries rose 21 percent to 18,228
from last September, the Munich-based company said yesterday in
a statement.  Lexus Declines  Lexus sales fell 6 percent last month to 16,948, as a
21 percent gain for the ES model was offset by a 27 percent
decline in IS deliveries.  Toyota, working to recover from record recalls, has sold
162,438 luxury cars and SUVs in the first nine months of this
year, a 9.2 increase over last year, the Toyota City, Japan-
based company said in a  statement . The result maintained a
narrowing lead for the brand that has led the segment since
2000.  “It’s been a challenging year for the whole industry,”
Brian Smith, U.S. vice president of Lexus brand sales, said in a
conference call yesterday. “We feel real good about where we
are this year. I don’t think we’re going to lose leadership this
year, but time will tell.”  Mercedes sales rose 18 percent to 159,729 so far this year,
while BMW deliveries are up 9.2 percent to 157,464. These
results don’t include sales of Mercedes’ Sprinter vans and Smart
cars or BMW’s Mini brand.  Tight Supply  BMW sales are being held back by low inventory of the X3
SUV until a new version reaches showrooms late this year,  Jim O’Donnell , president of BMW’s North American unit, said in a
Sept. 8 interview. The automaker is also still introducing
models in its popular 5-Series line.  “Those two things will hold back our sales in that race. I
think Lexus, in particular, will probably end the year No. 1,”
he said. “We never thought we’d be as close to them.”  Even with those challenges, BMW’s monthly sales in June,
July and August topped Mercedes and  Lexus , according to the
company’s stated results.  Luxury car buyers who waited for more improvement in the
economy are returning, said Barker, who is based in Northville,
Michigan.  “Now they feel a bit more secure as the stock market has
stabilized and grown a little bit and as they start to rebuild
their retirement funds,” Barker said. “They feel the worst is
over for them and they are getting back into the luxury car
market.”  Other Brands  Deliveries at  General Motors Co.’s  luxury division,
Cadillac, gained 11 percent from last year to 12,620 as sales of
the redesigned SRX sport-utility vehicle grew by 40 percent.  Ford Motor Co.  sold 7,510 of its Lincoln luxury vehicles in
September, a 26 percent increase from a year earlier, the
company said in a statement. Lincoln was helped by a 76 percent
increase in MKX sales.  Volvo, which Ford sold to China’s Zhejiang Geely Holding
Group Co., reported a sales decline of 12 percent to 4,152.  Honda Motor Co.’s Acura sales rose 48 percent to 10,720 in
September, the company said in a statement.  U.S. deliveries of  Volkswagen AG’s  Audi brand rose
13 percent to 8,151 vehicles. That topped Audi’s previous
September sales record from 2007, the company said in a
statement.  Porsche SE, which is merging with Volkswagen, reported a
25 percent sales increase to 1,971 vehicles.  Tata Motors Ltd.’s Jaguar posted a 10 percent gain in sales
to 967 vehicles. The company’s Land Rover division sold 2,489
vehicles for the month, an 12 percent increase, the company said
in a statement on its  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Higgins  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  