-- Merkel Under Fire After Crackdown on Stuttgart 21 High-Speed Rail Protest
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2010-10-01T10:42:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/merkel-under-fire-after-crackdown-on-stuttgart-21-high-speed-rail-protest.html
A German police crackdown on protests
against a rail project in Stuttgart backed by Chancellor  Angela Merkel  is reminiscent of Russia’s means of quelling dissent, the
leader of the opposition Greens party said.  “These methods aren’t the way we do things in Germany, and
we don’t want them,” Greens head  Cem Ozdemir  said today on ARD
television in Berlin. Baden-Wuerttemberg Interior Minister
Heribert Rech, the top law-enforcement official in the state and
a member of Merkel’s party, “seems to be looking for a job with
Putin in Russia.”  Weeks of protests against Deutsche Bahn AG’s plan to build
a  new train station  and lay tracks in Stuttgart, the biggest
city in Baden-Wuerttemberg, have become a lightning rod for
dissatisfaction with Merkel’s Christian Democrats. The CDU,
which has ruled the state since 1952, trails the opposition in
opinion polls before regional elections on March 27.  Police in the southwestern city of Stuttgart yesterday used
tear gas and water cannon to break up demonstrators trying to
stop crews from cutting down trees in a city park to make way
for a train station as part of the so-called Stuttgart 21
project. At least 116 people were injured, including three
teenagers and a 12-year-old, police said in a statement.  “The government is saddened by images such as those we saw
yesterday from Stuttgart,” Merkel’s spokesman,  Steffen Seibert ,
told reporters in Berlin, refusing to comment on local police
tactics. “Disputes should be carried out peacefully,” he said.
‘The chancellor sees it that way, too.”  Latest Poll  Support for Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc was
unchanged at 31 percent, while her FDP coalition partner held on
5 percent, an FG Wahlen poll for ZDF television showed today.
The Greens, who also oppose Merkel’s plan to extend Germany’s
use of nuclear power, remained at a record 19 percent. With the
Greens’ Social Democratic allies on 30 percent, the opposition
leads Merkel’s government by 49 percent to 36 percent. The Sept.
28-30 poll of 1,323 voters has a margin of error of as many as 3
percentage points.  Merkel called the Baden-Wuerttemberg vote a referendum on
her government in a Sept. 15 speech to parliament. Voters in the
state, which is home to  Porsche SE  and Daimler AG, will show
whether they back “the Stuttgart 21 project and many other
projects” to modernize Germany, she said.  The Stuttgart plan is part of a European rail link “from
Paris to Slovakia,” Merkel told the BDI industry group on Sept.
28. “If we don’t carry out this project, we would be viewed as
unreliable,” she said.  Television images from the protest showed high-school
students and adults tussling with police in riot gear. “When
mothers and their children take on the police, they do have to
be carried off,” state official Rech said on ZDF television.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Czuczka  at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  