-- EU Finance Chiefs Seek Deal on IMF Voting Rights Before Board-Seats Deal
-- B y   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 2010-10-01T14:10:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/eu-finance-chiefs-seek-deal-on-imf-voting-rights-before-board-seats-deal.html
European Union finance chiefs are
seeking an agreement on voting rights at the International
Monetary Fund before discussing proposed changes to the
institution’s board to better represent emerging economies.  European officials “are open” to discussing changes to
the composition of the IMF’s 24-member board, Belgian Finance
Minister  Didier Reynders , whose government currently holds the
rotating EU presidency, told a press conference in Brussels
today after a two-day meeting also attended by IMF Managing
Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn . “But first a revision of the
quotas,” or voting rights.  At stake is the governance of an institution that doesn’t
fully reflect the rising economic clout of countries such India
and  China , which this year surpassed Japan as the world’s No. 2
economy. The U.S., which blocked a proposal to maintain the IMF
board in its current 24-seat form, has said it is seeking
stronger representation of emerging economies to bolster the
fund’s legitimacy.  “We will offer to reduce the representation of European
countries at the executive board by as many as two seats through
rotation with emerging countries in the voting groups,” German
Deputy Finance Minister  Joerg Asmussen  told reporters in
Brussels. The European nations, including Germany, are seeking
to keep the total number of seats at 24.  Separate Negotiations  Europeans want to tie the board-representation issues to
separate negotiations among IMF members on the weight of
emerging nations’ votes. Quotas determine voting shares and
access to IMF loans as well as members’ financial obligations to
the institution.  Group of 20 leaders pledged last year to enhance the voting
power of China and others and planned to have details ironed out
by a summit in November in Seoul. China has a 3.65 percent
voting share, compared with Japan’s 6.01 percent.  Germany, France and the U.K. each has its own seat, along
with the U.S. and Japan. Countries such as Switzerland and
Belgium have executive directors who represent groups of
nations. Strauss-Kahn earlier this week said it would be
“fair” to give emerging countries more say on the board,
naming Turkey as an example.  The Netherlands, which represents a group of countries on
the IMF board, finds “it far too early to start on a specific
solution as long as you don’t know which step by Europe is
needed,” Dutch Finance Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  said in
Brussels yesterday. “The reason we don’t want to speak about
specific countries is because we want to know from the U.S. what
will be enough, what we have to do.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jurjen van de Pol  in Brussels at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net ;
 Christian Vits  in Brussels at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net . 