-- EU to Pursue Plans to Set Up a European Credit Rating Agency
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2010-10-01T13:08:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/eu-to-pursue-plans-to-set-up-a-european-credit-rating-agency.html
The European Union’s executive arm
will develop plans to create a European credit ratings agency
after discussing measures to regulate the industry with finance
ministers and central bank heads in Brussels today.  The European Commission will present proposals to create
“a new agency, particularly with a European dimension” and
“new ways of dealing with sovereign debt ratings by the middle
of 2011”  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services
commissioner, said at a press conference.  The “economic and political implications” of sovereign-
debt ratings mean “it is particularly important that ratings of
this asset class be accurate, timely and transparent,”
according to a copy of a proposal obtained by Bloomberg News
presented by the  European Commission  at the meeting.  Pressure on ratings companies increased after Greece’s
rating was cut to junk status in April, adding urgency to plans
to bail out the debt-plagued nation. Moody’s Investors Service
yesterday cut Spain’s top credit rating to Aa1 from Aaa, citing
weak economic growth prospects and “considerable
deterioration” of the government’s finances.  Ministers are also “ready to discuss” fines for ratings
companies who mislead investors with poor quality ratings for
securities, Swedish Finance Minister  Anders Borg  said in
Brussels.  Sovereign-Debt Rating  Rules to force rating companies to disclose the reasons for
changing a sovereign-debt rating, as well as the timing of the
adjustment, were discussed.  “The timing of this is completely political,” Sony
Kapoor, managing director of think-tank Re-Define Europe, said
in a telephone interview. “But there is something in the issue.
The problem with credit ratings is that they are self-
fulfilling.”  The European Union approved rules for credit-rating
companies last year, requiring them to adhere to a code of
conduct to reduce conflicts of interest between issuers and
rating firms.  The existing regulation doesn’t address problems such as an
“over-reliance on credit ratings,” the “civil liability” of
agencies or “the high degree of concentration” in the market
for ratings of a small number of firms, the EU document, dated
Sept. 15, said.  Bank Levies  The Belgian Presidency of the EU, which organized the
meeting, also pressed ministers and bank governors for
agreements on levies on banks’ balance sheets and a financial
transaction tax.  Bank levies should take into account “new standards on
capital requirements” while a financial transaction tax would
“present a number of disadvantages in terms of its
implementation,” European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said at the press conference.  The issue “is a very high priority of the Belgian
presidency,”  Didier Reynders , Belgian finance minister, told
reporters.  He said discussions on rules to regulate hedge funds took
place privately between ministers and central bank heads “but
the most difficult thing” will be to reach agreement on how to
allow non-EU hedge funds access to the 27-member bloc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Moshinsky  in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  