-- EU Warns of Potential `Contagious' Effects From Sovereign Debt on Banks
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2010-10-01T12:56:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/eu-warns-of-potential-contagious-effects-from-sovereign-debt-on-banks.html
European finance officials said the
economic rebound remains tepid and warned that the mountain of
debt piled up during the financial crisis may undermine private-
sector banks.  Europe’s recovery  is “fragile and uncertain” after growth
spurted to 1 percent in the second quarter, the fastest pace in
four years, finance ministers and central bankers said.  “The risks related to the sovereign-debt market could have
a contagious effect on the banking sector,” the officials said
in a statement today after a meeting in Brussels.  With European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
trumpeting the need to cut budget deficits, the officials took
the unusual step of calling on Ireland to raise taxes to plug a
shortfall estimated at 32 percent of gross domestic product in
2010, the highest in euro history.  The warning of a potential debt shock undercut shares in
European banks, paring gains in the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index . The
benchmark index was up 0.2 percent at 260.33 at 2:45 p.m.
Brussels time after rising as high as 261.60 before the
declaration.  Ireland, the euro region’s fastest-growing economy as
recently as 2006, yesterday said it is taking control of  Allied
Irish Banks Plc  and putting more money into the already
nationalized Anglo Irish Bank Corp., raising the cost of
stabilizing its financial system to as much as 50 billion euros
($68 billion).  Trichet told reporters of the urgency of “appropriate
consolidation measures” across Europe, and European Union
Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said
Ireland’s days of offering some of Europe’s lowest taxes are at
an end.  “Ireland will not continue as a low-tax country but it
will rather become a normal-tax country in the European
context,” Rehn said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James G. Neuger  in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  