-- Euro Libor Rises the Most in Two Years as Banks' Demand for ECB Cash Falls
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2010-10-01T14:28:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/euro-libor-rises-the-most-in-two-years-as-banks-demand-for-ecb-cash-falls.html
The rate that London-based banks say
they pay for three-month loans in euros rose by the most in two
years as lenders’ falling demand for cash from the European
Central Bank signaled the cost of borrowing may rise.  The London interbank offered rate, or Libor, for such loans
increased 4 basis points to 0.89 percent, the highest since July
2009, data from the British Bankers’ Association showed today.
It was the biggest jump since September 2008. The three-month
euro interbank offered rate, or  Euribor , also rose the most in
two years, the European Banking Federation said.  The ECB said yesterday it will lend banks 29.4 billion
euros ($40.5 billion) for six days at its benchmark rate to help
ease the expiry of 225 billion euros in longer-term loans,
signaling lenders’ reliance on ECB cash might be waning. The
Frankfurt-based central bank said Sept. 29 it lent 104 billion
euros for three months compared with 131.9 billion euros at the
previous longer-term refinancing operation.  “There’s a drop in excess liquidity in the system, and it
signals the banks that were bidding for liquidity six or 12
months ago were able to recover,” said  Chiara Cremonesi , a
fixed-income strategist at UniCredit SpA in London. “These
confirm that the ECB will go on with its gradual exit” from
emergency measures, she said.  Financial institutions have been wary of lending to each
other after Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis fueled concern that
some governments may struggle to refinance their debts. Signs
that banks are becoming less reliant on ECB funding may suggest
that interbank interest rates may rise toward the central bank’s
main refinancing rate, currently a record low 1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  