-- European Stocks Fall After U.S. Factory Data; Santander Drops
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s   a n d   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2010-10-01T15:40:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/european-stocks-fall-after-u-s-factory-data-swatch-slides-repsol-jumps.html
European stocks declined for a fifth
day after a report showed growth in U.S. manufacturing slowed in
September, prompting speculation that last month’s rally in
equities has overshot the prospects for economic growth.  Banco Santander SA fell 2.4 percent after European Union
officials warned that the fallout from the debt crisis could
hurt Europe’s lenders. Swatch Group AG and LVMH Moet Hennessy
Louis Vuitton SA led losses among exporters as the dollar fell
against the euro and Swiss franc. Repsol led energy producers
higher, jumping 5.4 percent after saying China Petrochemical
Corp. will invest $7.1 billion in its Brazilian unit.  The benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  fell 0.3 percent to
258.84 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London, capping its biggest
weekly drop in three months. Stocks declined as a report from
the U.S. Institute for Supply Management showed manufacturing
expanded in September at the slowest pace in 10 months, while
measures of orders and production fell to the lowest level since
June 2009.  “We’ve had a superbly strong September and people were
waiting for ISM to see if this rally can be carried forward,”
said  Alberto Espelosin , who helps manage about $12 billion at
Zaragoza, Spain-based Ibercaja Gestion. “With a report on
manufacturing that’s just in line, and within normal levels of
expansion, it will stress the case for some consolidation or
profit taking in indexes. Only a very positive number would have
helped markets in what is a very volatile and range-bound
session.”  Derail Recovery  The Stoxx 600 is down 1.9 percent this week after falling
for five straight sessions amid lingering concern that the
region’s sovereign-debt will derail the economic recovery.
Still, the gauge yesterday completed its biggest quarterly gain
in a year.  The ISM’s  factory index  dropped to 54.4 from 56.3 in
August, the Tempe, Arizona-based group said today. Readings
greater than 50 signal growth and economists forecast a decline
to 54.5, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey.  Stocks rallied earlier today after a report showed China’s
manufacturing expanded at the fastest pace in four months in
September, adding to signs that economic growth is stabilizing.  “There is something of a paradox going on,” said  Manoj Ladwa , a London-based senior trader at ETX Capital. “Traders
are split between two camps -- either we have seen the worst of
the economic crisis and we are on a path to recovery, or we
going to see a double dip.”  Brussels Meeting  Banks declined after the EU said the region’s lenders may
be at risk of contagion from the region’s debt crisis, just one
day after Ireland said it will take majority ownership of  Allied
Irish Banks Plc , its second bailout of the lender.  A statement issued after a meeting in Brussels today said
that finance ministers and central bank governors had “pointed
out the risks related to the sovereign debt market that could
have a contagious effect on the banking sector.”  Santander, Spain’s largest bank, fell 2.4 percent to 9.09
euros, while rival  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA  lost 1.7
percent to 9.74 euros. Moody’s Investors Service yesterday cut
Spain’s top credit rating by one notch, citing a “weak”
economic outlook and doubts that the nation will reach deficit-
reduction targets.  Exporters Decline         Swatch  fell 4 percent to 355.1 Swiss francs, the biggest
drop in three months. LVMH dropped 2.3 percent to 105.15 euros.
The dollar fell to the lowest level since March versus the euro,
and dropped against the franc, hurting the revenue of European
exporters to the U.S. and elsewhere.  Swatch Chief Executive Officer  Nick Hayek Jr . told Blick
newspaper that every 1 centime appreciation of the franc against
the dollar cuts 20 million francs ($20.5 million) to 30 million
francs from earnings. If the franc gains 10 centimes against the
dollar, it would cost the company about 280 million francs, he
said.  Beatrice Howald , a company spokeswoman, confirmed the
comments.  LVMH, the maker of Louis Vuitton bags, gets more than half
of sales outside of Europe.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG declined 4.2 percent, the most
in three months, to 49.30 euros. The world’s biggest maker of
luxury cars said it’s recalling almost 350,800 BMW-brand and
Rolls-Royce models worldwide to repair a power-brake system
fault.  Brazilian Unit  Repsol  jumped 5.4 percent to 19.91 euros, the highest level
in two years. China’s Sinopec will buy new shares in the Spanish
company’s Brazilian unit and will hold 40 percent of that
division after the capital increase. Repsol will also hold the
remaining 60 percent stake.  BG Group Plc , a U.K. partner of Repsol in Brazil, climbed
4.4 percent to 1,168 pence. Galp Energia SGPS SA, the Portuguese
company that also drills in Brazil, increased 7.7 percent to
13.64 euros. Sacyr Vallehermoso SA, which owns 20 percent of
Repsol, surged 13 percent to 4.94 euros, the biggest jump in
almost two years.  Cap Gemini SA, Europe’s largest computer services provider,
rallied 3.9 percent to 38.25 euros after Dublin-based Accenture
Plc, the world’s second-largest technology-consulting firm,
forecast net revenue of $5.6 billion to $5.8 billion for the
quarter ending November. Analysts had projected $5.62 billion,
according to the average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Celesio AG  advanced 3.4 percent to 16.50 euros after Exane
BNP Paribas raised its recommendation for Europe’s biggest
publicly traded drug wholesaler to “outperform” from
“neutral.”  Schmolz & Bickenbach AG plunged 14 percent to 24.60 Swiss
francs after the steelmaker announced plans to raise 297 million
francs ($303 million) selling shares.  Subsea 7 Inc. rallied 3.1 percent to 118.5 kroner after the
oil-services company that operates in the North Sea was awarded
a $250 million contract by Total E&P UK Ltd. for the Laggan
Tormore deepwater gas field development.  ---With assistance by  Maryam Nemazee  in London. Editors:  David Merritt ,  Andrew Rummer .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sarah Jones  in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net ;
 Alexis Xydias  in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 