-- European Manufacturing Cools, Unemployment Stays at High
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2010-10-01T09:19:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/european-manufacturing-growth-slows-orders-rise-at-slowest-pace-in-a-year.html
Growth in Europe’s manufacturing
 industry  slowed and unemployment held at a 12-year high as a
cooling global recovery restrained demand.  A gauge of manufacturing in the 16-nation euro region
declined to 53.7 in September from 55.1 the previous month,
London-based Markit Economics said today. A separate report
showed that the region’s jobless rate stayed at 10.1 percent in
August, the highest since June 1998.  Europe’s  economy  is cooling after growth accelerated to the
fastest pace in four years in the second quarter. Manufacturing
in Germany eased last month, while it shrank in Spain and
Ireland, national reports today showed. The European Commission
sees a more “moderate” expansion in the second half as
unemployment hobbles consumer spending and governments step up
austerity measures to reduce budget deficits.  “Global growth appears to be slowing and domestic demand
is likely to be limited in a number of euro-zone countries
by tighter fiscal policy,” said  Howard Archer , an economist at
IHS Global Insight in London. Contractions in Spain and Ireland
“highlight the divergent performance of the euro zone.”  The euro-area gauge compares with an initial estimate of
53.6 released on Sept. 23. It’s the 12th straight month with a
reading above 50, indicating expansion. A measure of new export
orders fell to the lowest since November, while total orders
rose at the slowest pace in a year Markit said.  The euro was little changed against the dollar immediately
after the report, before extending its gain. It traded at
$1.3720 at 10:05 a.m. in London, up 0.6 percent since yesterday.  ‘Caution’  In Germany, the manufacturing gauge dropped to 55.1 in
September from 58.2, the lowest since January. Italy’s measure
also declined, while France’s index rose to 56 from 55.1.  European  services  growth also slowed in September, Markit
said on Sept. 23. It will publish the final figure, along with a
composite gauge for both industries, on Oct. 5.  European Central Bank officials will hold their next policy
meeting on Oct. 9 after last month extending emergency measures
for banks into 2011. ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
yesterday in Brussels that there’s a need for “caution.”  Other economies are also showing signs of cooling,
prompting central banks from the Federal Reserve to the Bank of
Japan to consider additional steps to support their recoveries.  Australian manufacturing  shrank in September for the first
time in nine months, while a factory index in the U.K. dropped
to a 10-month low. A U.S.  manufacturing gauge  probably dropped
to 54.5 from 56.3, according to the median of 83 estimates in a
Bloomberg survey. The Institute for Supply Management will
publish the data at 10 a.m. in New York.  China Growth  A report in China showed  manufacturing  there expanded at
the fastest pace in four months, with a government index
published today rising to 53.8 from 51.7 in August.  While European companies including carmakers  Renault SA  and
 Volkswagen AG  are benefiting from demand in Asian nations such
as China, that’s being partly offset by weakness in Europe.  The automotive market in Europe may shrink 2 percent in
2011 after a contraction this year, Renault Chief Executive
Officer  Carlos Ghosn  said yesterday. Sales in the region remain
“very weak,” said  Nick Reilly , CEO of General Motors Co.’s
Opel division.  The outlook for Europe’s economy is being clouded as
investors question the ability of nations such as  Ireland  and
Portugal to handle their fiscal burdens without external aid.  The yield spread between the two nations’ 10-year debt and
German bunds widened to a record this week before narrowing.
Portugal unveiled tougher measures to reduce its budget gap,
while Ireland said it remains committed to meeting a 2014
deficit target even as the cost of bank bailouts mounts.  Still, some data point to a limited slowdown. European
confidence in the economic outlook unexpectedly improved this
month to the highest since January 2008.  “Economic developments have been more positive than
expected,”  Jean-Claude Juncker , who heads the euro-area group
of finance ministers, said in Brussels yesterday. “We’re fully
aware of the remaining headwinds for the euro-area economy. That
requires that we go ahead with necessary fiscal consolidation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simone Meier  in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  