-- European Stocks Fluctuate as Banks Retreat, Repsol Rallies
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2010-10-01T12:05:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/european-u-s-stock-index-futures-advance-unicredit-brenntag-may-move.html
European stocks fluctuated as a
selloff in bank shares offset a $7.1 billion Chinese investment
in Repsol YPF SA’s Brazilian unit. U.S. index futures and Asian
shares advanced.  Banco Santander SA and Societe Generale SA fell more than 1
percent after European Union officials warned that the fallout
from the debt crisis could hurt the region’s banks. Repsol led
energy producers higher, jumping 6 percent. Cap Gemini SA gained
3.3 percent after rival technology-consulting firm Accenture Plc
forecast sales that may top analysts’ estimates.  The benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  gained 0.2 percent to
260.34 at 1:04 p.m. in London. The gauge has lost 1.4 percent
this week, its largest drop since July, amid lingering concern
that the region’s sovereign-debt will derail the economic
recovery. Still, the gauge yesterday completed its biggest
quarterly gain in a year.  “There is something of a paradox going on,” said  Manoj Ladwa , a London-based senior trader at ETX Capital. “Traders
are split between two camps -- either we have seen the worst of
the economic crisis and we are on a path to recovery, or we
going to see a double dip.”  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  futures gained 0.5 percent
before data that may show manufacturing expanded in September at
the slowest pace in 10 months, underscoring the Federal
Reserve’s forecast of “modest” U.S. growth.  Factory Index  The Institute for Supply Management’s  factory index  dropped
to 54.5 from 56.3 in August, according to the median estimate of
economists. Readings above 50 indicate expansion. Other reports
may show consumer confidence fell, construction dropped for a
fourth straight month, and consumer spending cooled.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  rose 0.6 percent today,
extending the gauge’s fifth straight weekly advance, as energy
companies climbed with crude oil. A report today showed China’s
manufacturing expanded at the fastest pace in four months in
September, adding to signs that economic growth is stabilizing.  European stocks erased gains earlier today after the EU
said banks may be a risk of contagion from the region’s debt
crisis, just one day after Ireland said it will take majority
ownership of Allied Irish Banks Plc, its second bailout of the
lender.  Brussels Meeting  A statement issued after a meeting in Brussels today said
that finance ministers and central bank governors had “pointed
out the risks related to the sovereign debt market that could
have a contagious effect on the banking sector.”  Santander led a gauge of banks shares lower, falling 1.6
percent to 9.17 euros. Societe Generale SA retreated 1.3 percent
to 41.72 euros and BNP Paribas fell 1.4 percent to 51.49 euros.  Repsol  jumped 5.7 percent to 19.97 euros, the highest level
in two years. China’s Sinopec will buy new shares in the
company’s Brazilian unit and will hold 40 percent of that
division after the capital increase. Repsol will also hold the
remaining 60 percent stake.  “There are opportunities in companies that are potential
M&A targets,”  ETX’s Ladwa said on Bloomberg Television’s
“Countdown” with  Maryam Nemazee .  “There seems to be a lot
going on in the market and that theme is going to continue.”  U.K. partner  BG Group Plc  climbed 4.1 percent to 1,164.5
pence while Sacyr Vallehermoso SA, which owns 20 percent of
Repsol, surged 11 percent to 4.87 euros. Galp Energia SGPS SA,
Portugal’s biggest oil company, increased 6.6 percent to 13.50
euros.  Accenture Forecast  Cap Gemini, Europe’s largest computer services provider,
rallied 3.4 percent to 38.04 euros after Dublin-based Accenture,
the world’s second-largest technology-consulting firm, forecast
net revenue of $5.6 billion to $5.8 billion for the quarter
ending November. Analysts had projected $5.62 billion, according
to the average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Celesio AG  advanced 4.2 percent to 16.64 euros after Exane
BNP Paribas raised its recommendation for Europe’s biggest
publicly traded drug wholesaler to “outperform” from
“neutral.”  Schmolz & Bickenbach AG plunged 14 percent to 24.60 Swiss
francs after the steelmaker announced plans to raise 297 million
francs ($303 million) selling shares.  Subsea 7 Inc. rallied 3.6 percent to 119 kroner after the
oil-services company that operates in the North Sea was awarded
a $250 million contract by Total E&P UK Ltd. for the Laggan
Tormore deepwater gas field development.  ---With assistance by  Maryam Nemazee  in London. Editors:  David Merritt ,  Andrew Rummer .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Jones  in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 