-- European Stocks Post Biggest Weekly Decline in Three Months; H&M Tumbles
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h   a n d   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2010-10-01T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/european-stocks-post-biggest-weekly-decline-in-three-months-h-m-tumbles.html
European stocks  posted the biggest
weekly drop in three months, with banks leading declines amid
concern the region’s economy is slowing as the sovereign-debt
crisis curbs growth.  Allied Irish Banks Plc slid 12 percent after Ireland’s
government announced plans to take majority control of the
lender. Michelin & Cie., the world’s second-largest tiremaker,
tumbled 15 percent after saying it plans to raise 1.2 billion
euros ($1.7 billion) in a rights offering. Hennes & Mauritz AB,
Europe’s second-biggest clothing retailer, slumped 6.5 percent
as third-quarter profit missed analysts’ estimates.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  lost 1.9 percent to 259.09 this
past week, the most since July 2. The regional gauge is 4.8
percent below this year’s high in April amid speculation that
economic growth will slow as European nations slash spending to
rein in their budget deficits. The cost of insuring against
default on Ireland’s government debt surged to a record this
week, signaling deterioration in the country’s creditworthiness.  “The tensions in the European Economic and Monetary Union
are increasing again and could once again prove to be a greater
strain for the equity market,”  Tammo Greetfeld , a Munich-based
senior equity strategist at UniCredit SpA, wrote in a report
dated Sept. 30. Some recent economic reports in Europe “suggest
that the pace of growth will slow in the coming months.”  European Economy  Expansion in Europe’s  manufacturing  industry slowed in
September and export orders weakened as a cooling global
recovery restrained demand. The reports overshadowed better-
than-forecast data on Chinese manufacturing and U.S. growth.  All 19 industry groups on the Stoxx 600 rallied in the
third quarter through the end of September as the index posted a
6.7 percent climb amid optimism the Federal Reserve and other
central banks will step in to provide more stimulus for the
ailing recovery. Even so, New York University Professor  Nouriel Roubini  said there’s a high probability of another U.S.
recession, with Japan’s “anemic” outlook underscoring risks to
the global recovery.  National benchmark indexes declined in 14 of the 18 western
European markets this week. France’s CAC 40 and Germany’s DAX
lost 2.4 percent and 1.4 percent, respectively. The U.K.’s FTSE
100 Index slipped 0.1 percent.  The  VStoxx Index , which measures the cost of protecting
against declines in the Euro Stoxx 50 Index, surged 11 percent,
the most since June.  Banks Decline  European banking shares posted the worst performance among
19  industry groups  in the Stoxx 600 this week, losing 4.5
percent. A statement issued after a meeting in Brussels
yesterday said that finance ministers and central bank governors
had “pointed out the risks related to the sovereign debt market
that could have a contagious effect on the banking sector.”  Allied Irish sank 12 percent as the government said it will
take majority ownership of the company in its second bailout of
the lender. The bank will seek to raise 5.4 billion euros in a
stock offering in November and its Managing Director  Colm Doherty  and Chairman  Dan O’Connor  will both step down.  Greece’s Alpha Bank SA and EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA slid
5.7 percent and 3.8 percent, respectively. National Bank of
Greece SA sank 10 percent, while Piraeus Bank SA slipped 1.4
percent. Moody’s Investors Service said the “continued weak and
deteriorating” asset quality and funding conditions for Greek
banks justifies a “negative” outlook for the industry and the
individual banks’ ratings.  Michelin, H&M  Michelin slumped 15 percent. The French tiremaker said it
will offer new shares at 45 euros apiece and shareholders will
be able to buy 2 new shares for every 11 held. The sale will
help Michelin fund capital spending of 1.6 billion euros in 2011
and beyond, compared with about 1 billion euros this year.  H&M plunged 6.5 percent, the most since May, after the
retailer’s third-quarter profit missed estimates as gross margin
narrowed.  Thomas Cook Group Plc  retreated 5.7 percent as Europe’s
second-biggest tour operator said higher costs for leasing
aircraft will place an additional burden on profit in its U.K.
business amid the toughest year on record.  Actelion Ltd., the largest Swiss biotechnology company,
sank 8 percent after its clazosentan medicine didn’t meet the
main goal of a study in patients who had suffered from bleeding
in the brain.  BP Plc  gained 8.8 percent, leading a measure of oil and gas
companies to the largest increase in the Stoxx 600, as crude
climbed. The Associated Press reported that Europe’s second-
biggest oil company is discussing a possible settlement with
U.S. authorities, citing Louisiana Republican  Steve Scalise .  Galp Energia SGPS, which has projects in Brazil, surged 9.9
percent for the biggest advance in the  Stoxx 600  after China
Petrochemical Corp. agreed to invest $7.1 billion in Repsol YPF
SA’s unit in the South American nation.  Logitech International SA surged 9 percent as the largest
maker of computer mice was upgraded to “neutral” from
“underperform” at BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Adam Haigh  in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net ;
 Julie Cruz  in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 