-- Hewlett-Packard Picks Apotheker as CEO; Shares Fall
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2010-10-01T20:22:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/hewlett-packard-names-apotheker-ceo-adding-software-expertise.html
Leo Apotheker ,  Hewlett-Packard Co. ’s
new chief executive officer, brings two decades of software
expertise that may help the biggest computer maker add
applications to hardware and step up rivalry with Oracle Corp.  Apotheker spent most of his career at  SAP AG , the biggest
maker of business-management software. He cut costs and led some
of SAP’s biggest acquisitions as sole CEO.  HP will draw on Apotheker’s background as it adds software
to computers, smartphones and networking equipment. His
unexpected departure from SAP this year, after the first annual
sales decline since 2003, also fueled concern he won’t spur the
growth HP needs as it enters new businesses and combats Oracle,
Cisco Systems Inc. and  International Business Machines Corp.   “Apotheker has no experience in hardware, and one shouldn’t
forget that he wasn’t exactly crowned with laurels when he left
SAP,” said  Frank Niemann , a consultant at Pierre Audoin
Consultants in Munich. “By a lack of sensitivity towards
customers and employees he generated a lot of negativity.”  Hewlett-Packard, based in Palo Alto, California, fell today
after the appointment of the 57-year-old software executive took
investors by surprise. The stock declined $1.30, or 3.1 percent,
to $40.77 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
 trading . It has lost 21 percent this year.  Computer makers are integrating software into their
products at earlier stages to help customers tackle tasks such
as scouring reams of data and managing global shipments of
components. Companies traditionally focused on hardware are
having to become more adept at using applications.  Lane Appointed  “If you really want to innovate and grow, you have to think
like a software executive,” said  Bill McDermott , co-CEO of SAP,
who joined in 2002 and was mentored by Apotheker.  HP also appointed  Ray Lane , the managing partner at Kleiner
Perkins Caufield & Byers as nonexecutive chairman.  Apotheker and Lane, who was previously Oracle’s chief
operating officer, will succeed  Mark Hurd , who held the HP CEO
and chairman roles until his resignation on Aug. 6. Hurd is now
president responsible for sales, marketing and customer support
at Oracle, SAP’s biggest rival.  HP’s board considered internal and external executives for
the CEO role and narrowed it down to about six candidates, board
member  Bob Ryan  said today on a conference call. Apotheker is
the only one they offered the job to, he said.  ‘Work’ Needed  “There’s a lot of work to be done” at HP, said  Joel Achramowicz , an analyst at Blaylock Robert Van LLC in Oakland,
California. He has a “neutral”  rating  on HP’s shares and says
the CEO decision won’t cause him to change that. “The company
needs new leadership that can make aggressive, risky moves to
inject new vitality into the enterprise.”  Apotheker left SAP in February after less than a year as
sole CEO. He presided over SAP’s first annual revenue decline
since 2003 as customers delayed software purchases, while  Oracle 
used acquisitions to expand in applications, SAP’s area of
expertise.  SAP shares, which climbed to a record 71.58 euros in March
2000 -- when  Hasso Plattner  was in charge -- lost more than half
their value by the time Apotheker left. He also tried
unsuccessfully to push through a price increase amid the
recession that left customers dismayed.  Still, Apotheker handled more than a dozen acquisitions,
including the purchase of Business Objects for about $7 billion,
the company’s largest deal, HP said in a statement yesterday.  ‘Endurance’ Credit  Apotheker, who speaks five languages, rose through the
company’s sales division, unlike his three predecessors, who had
science backgrounds. He was appointed co-CEO in 2008 and became
SAP’s sole CEO the following year.  Apotheker expanded SAP’s sales force and hired and mentored
top sales managers, including current co-CEO  McDermott . Grasping
the impact of the global financial crisis, he slashed more than
3,000 jobs, SAP’s first major cuts. He also spent more than 200
days a year travelling on business, and has been to more than
100 countries, according to SAP.  “You have to give him credit for endurance,” McDermott said
in an interview. “You won’t find a guy more willing to connect
with customers.”  HP, which has used acquisitions to expand in software, will
benefit from Apotheker’s expertise in that area, said  Shaw Wu ,
an analyst at Kaufman Brothers LP in San Francisco.  Push for Margins  “Software is an area HP should be more aggressive in,” said
Wu, who recommends buying HP shares. “It’s a higher-margin
business.”  One of Hurd’s largest acquisitions was the $4.5 billion
purchase of software maker Mercury Interactive Corp. HP also
recently purchased security software maker ArcSight Inc., as
well as Fortify Software, which helps information technology
departments analyze code for security holes, and data-center
software company Stratavia.  “I can bring to this business the capacity to have a
strategic vision, a technology vision and the ability to make
people work together,” Apotheker said in an interview.  A resident of Paris while at SAP, Apotheker said he plans
to relocate to Silicon Valley and work from HP’s headquarters.  Apotheker’s base salary will be $1.2 million a year, HP
said in a regulatory filing today. He will get a $4 million
signing bonus and $4.6 million relocation benefit. For fiscal
2011, he will get a bonus of as much as five times his salary,
depending on whether he achieves certain performance goals. He
will also receive HP shares and restricted stock.  Rebel  Apotheker spent his youth in Belgium and Germany, where his
parents, Polish Jews, moved after World War II. In an  interview
with BusinessWeek  in 2009, he recalled being a rebel. In high
school, Apotheker organized a student strike.  “I wanted a revolution -- and also for cigarettes to be
permitted in school,” he told the magazine, now called Bloomberg
Businessweek. In the melee that followed, a policeman on
horseback knocked out two of Apotheker’s teeth, he said.  Apotheker moved to Israel when he was 18 to attend Hebrew
University of Jerusalem, where he studied economics. He later
held several financial and operations jobs at European companies
before joining SAP in 1988. He was awarded the French Legion
d’honneur in 2007 for his contributions to the French economy.  Apotheker’s international background can help HP compete in
international markets, Lane said. More than 63 percent of HP’s
fiscal third-quarter revenue came from outside the U.S.  “We can get caught up in drinking our own bathwater in
Silicon Valley,” Lane said. “He operates as a global citizen and
that’s a real advantage for HP.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Ricadela  in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  