-- Hewlett-Packard's Apotheker Appointment Sparks Talk of Closer Ties to SAP
-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 2010-10-01T14:57:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/hewlett-packard-apotheker-appointment-sparks-talk-of-closer-ties-with-sap.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. ’s appointment of
former SAP AG Chief Executive Officer  Leo Apotheker  to its top
job is prompting some analysts to say the companies may be set
to forge closer ties or even merge.  “We would not be surprised to see HP and SAP get closer,”
said  Peter Goldmacher , an analyst at Cowen and Company LLC in
San Francisco. “The combo makes sense,” he said in a note,
adding that the appointment is “a very clear signal that HP is
getting serious about enterprise software.”  Apotheker, 57, is taking over as CEO at HP after  Mark Hurd 
resigned on Aug. 6. HP also named  Ray Lane , managing partner at
Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Buyers and a former Oracle Corp.
chief operating officer, as its non-executive chairman. Hurd,
who was named a co-president at  Oracle  on Sept.6, held both the
CEO and chairman roles at HP.  HP needs new software businesses to lessen its dependence
on low-margin computers and combat rivals including Oracle
Corp., Cisco Systems Inc. and  International Business Machines
Corp. , providing clients more complete products and services.
SAP is the world’s biggest maker of business-management
software.  “IBM, which is their closest systems competitor, has
amassed a huge software portfolio that enables people to put a
pretty holistic solution together,” said Andrew Butler, vice
president of research at Gartner Inc., based in Wokingham,
England. “Oracle, with its acquisition of Sun, can do something
similar, so HP has never needed its depth of alliances with the
SAPs and the Microsofts and others as much as now.”  SAP Shares Rise  Walldorf, Germany-based  SAP’s shares  rose as much as 2.1
percent, giving it a market value of about 45 billion euros ($62
billion), which is about a third less than HP’s $92 billion.  SAP spokesman  Christoph Liedtke  said Apotheker’s
appointment augurs well for a close partnership between the
companies, and that it could help the two companies sell more
solutions to joint customers. He declined to comment on
speculation that the two companies might merge.  HP’s spokesman in Germany, Norbert Gelse, and the company’s
spokeswoman for Europe Africa and the Middle East, Anette
Nachbar, didn’t immediately return calls seeking comment.  While “the obvious speculation” is the acquisition of
SAP, it’s not a near-term possibility, Butler said.  “For anyone to buy SAP, it’s going to be an enormous
financial undertaking, it’ll have a huge cultural impact,” he
said. “So if it’s going to come, it’s not going to be
immediate. SAP isn’t exactly a company in trouble. They are
still an extremely successful company.”  ‘Further Out’  In July, SAP posted a 15 percent increase in second-quarter
profit as companies boosted spending on technology. SAP, which 
provides software for the order fulfilment and accounting behind
 Apple Inc. ’s iTunes download system and is used by companies 
for payroll and customer relations management, is expanding to 
applications accessed via the Internet and mobile devices. This 
year, it bought  Sybase Inc. , a maker of database and 
mobile-computing software, for $5.8 billion.  “Looking further out, we believe the most likely outcome
is for HP to buy  SAP , which gets the company Sybase and
enterprise data street credentials” Goldmacher said. “However,
until the economics of working with SAP outweigh the economics
of working with Oracle, which we don’t expect to happen any time
soon, we don’t expect a material relationship to unfold.”  Apotheker left SAP in February after less than a year as
sole CEO. He presided over SAP’s first annual revenue decline
since 2003 as customers delayed software purchases, while Oracle
used acquisitions to expand in applications, SAP’s area of
expertise.  ‘Lot of Sense’  “HP’s acquisition of SAP would make a lot of sense at a
time when software and hardware ‘bundling’ is becoming very
popular,”  Sebastien Thevoux-Chabuel , an analyst at Oddo
Securities, wrote in a report. “In addition, HP was obviously
in the running for Sybase for its databases and mobility
solutions.”  Goldmacher and  Frank Niemann , a consultant for Pierre
Audoin Consultants in Munich, Germany, both said HP needs to
become stronger in software in order to compete with the likes
of Oracle and  IBM Corp.   “Because Apotheker came from SAP, there will be a much
tighter cooperation between HP and SAP,” Niemann said. He
doesn’t necessarily think HP will try to buy SAP, although it is
likely HP will continue with acquisitions.  “They must, especially in the area of software,” Niemann
said, adding that it will be Apotheker’s job to bring the three
pillars of software, services and hardware together in a
seamless way; maybe a little bit more like IBM.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:  Ragnhild Kjetland  in
Frankfurt at   rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Vidya Root at
   vroot@bloomberg.net  