-- Ex-Bank of America Municipal Chief Faces U.S. Regulatory Action
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2010-10-01T19:58:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/ex-bank-of-america-municipal-chief-faces-u-s-regulatory-action.html
Phillip Murphy , the former  Bank of
America Corp.  executive who ran the municipal derivatives
business at the center of a criminal investigation, is the
subject of a regulatory action filed by U.S. banking regulators.  The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, which
oversees national banks, filed a “notice of charges” against
Murphy in August 2008 that was placed under seal, according to a
Securities and Exchange Commission filing by his current
employer, Winters & Co. Advisors LLC. The Sept. 24 SEC filing
didn’t disclose the nature of the notice.  Bank of America, the largest U.S. bank, has been
cooperating for more than three years with Justice Department
prosecutors who say that bankers paid kickbacks to financial
advisers to rig bids on investment contracts sold to local
governments. The bank, based in Charlotte, North Carolina, is
among more than a dozen the government says conspired on the
deals, according to court documents obtained by Bloomberg.  The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency files notices
of charges against people when they start a civil case, just as
indictments are filed at the beginning of criminal complaints,
said Ralph Sharpe, a former director of enforcement at the
agency who is now a lawyer with Venable LLP in Washington.
“That starts the process,” he said.  Murphy, reached on his cell phone, hung up when questioned
by a reporter.  Christopher Winters , president of Winters & Co.
in Los Angeles, declined to comment.  Shirley Norton , a
spokeswoman for Bank of America, declined to comment, as did
 Kevin Mukri , a spokesman for the comptroller’s office.  Colleague Pleads  The disclosure by Winters comes after  Douglas Campbell , who
worked for Murphy at Bank of America until 2002, pleaded guilty
to criminal conspiracy and fraud charges last month. He was the
second investment banker to admit involvement. Former UBS AG
employee  Mark Zaino  pleaded guilty in May.  The comptroller’s office has been working with the Justice
Department on the case since 2008, according to court records.
The SEC and the Internal Revenue Service have also helped
prosecutors.  Sharpe, the former enforcement director, said the office
sometimes delays proceedings when a criminal case is being
conducted so it doesn’t interfere. “Sometimes they will stay
their hand and wait,” he said.  Investment Deals  The Justice Department investigation centers on guaranteed-
investment contracts, known as GICs, that municipalities buy
with money raised through bond sales. The investments let them
earn a return on the cash until the funds are needed for
schools, roads and other public works. The U.S. Treasury
Department encourages competitive bidding for the contracts to
ensure that localities obtain market rates.  Prosecutors say that favored bankers received inside
information from brokers who handled the bidding so they could
carve up the market. The bankers compensated the brokers with
kickbacks disguised as fees on derivative transactions known as
interest-rate swaps, according to the charges.  Murphy joined Bank of America in 1998 to head its
municipal derivatives unit, which sold investment agreements and
interest-rate swaps to local governments. He left in 2002, after
Bank of America fired Campbell for making payments to firms on
transactions in which they weren’t involved, according to court
records.  Develop Relationships  The recipients of such payments included CDR Financial
Products Inc., the investment-contract broker whose founder and
two senior executives were indicted in October; UBS AG; and
Winters & Co., Murphy’s current employer, according to a June
2002 e-mail from Campbell to Murphy. The message was included in
filings of a lawsuit Murphy brought against Bank of America in
2003 in a North Carolina state court.  In CDR’s case, Campbell said, the payments were made to
“develop a better relationship.”  In the charges to which Campbell pleaded guilty last month,
prosecutors said that he paid kickbacks, disguised as fees, to
CDR for steering investment deals to Bank of America.  Murphy, who said in his lawsuit that he was shunned as a
whistleblower for flagging Campbell’s payments, is listed as a
unindicted co-conspirator in the CDR case, according to court
documents obtained by Bloomberg that are now under seal.  Seven people have pleaded guilty to criminal charges in the
Justice Department’s case. Three CDR executives and three former
employees of a  General Electric Co.  unit that sold the
investment contracts have also been indicted in the case and
have pleaded not guilty.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 William Selway  in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  