-- Chirac Trial on Fake Job Claims at Paris City Hall Postponed Until March
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2010-10-01T14:03:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/ex-french-president-chirac-faces-march-trial-in-paris-on-fake-jobs-charges.html
Former French President  Jacques Chirac  will be tried in March on charges he gave fictitious City
Hall jobs to supporters during his term as mayor of Paris.  Judge Dominique Pauthe scheduled the trial to start March 7
and conclude April 8 at a hearing in Paris today, postponing it
from a planned November start date to allow a similar probe in
nearby Nanterre to be completed and the two cases combined. Both
the defense and prosecution supported the delay.  “For the administration of sound justice, it is necessary
that these two affairs be taken together,” said  Jean Veil , a
lawyer for Chirac.  Chirac will be the first French president to stand trial.
The 77-year-old denies allegations that, while serving as mayor,
he awarded 21 City Hall job contracts to people who worked for
his Rally for the Republic political party. Excluding a two-year
hiatus when he was prime minister, Chirac led Paris from 1977 to
1995. He was elected president that year, giving him immunity
from prosecution until he left office in 2007.  The City of Paris officially withdrew its claim against
Chirac at today’s hearing as part of a settlement agreement
approved this week. Chirac and RPR’s successor, the  Union for a
Popular Movement , will pay 2.2 million euros ($3 million) to the
city, with Chirac putting in 550,000 euros of that amount. The
settlement wasn’t an admission of guilt, said Veil.  Two Parisians have filed motions with the local court to
appear as civil plaintiffs now that the city’s settlement leaves
the case without a victim claimant. The Paris prosecutor opposed
the investigating judge’s decision to order the trial.  Former Prime Minister  Alain Juppe  was convicted in 2004 for
his involvement in the fake jobs affair during his time as
Chirac’s deputy mayor and RPR president.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Heather Smith  in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  