-- FDIC Plans to Sell $1.1 Billion in Property Loans Seized From Failed Banks
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2010-10-01T16:37:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/fdic-plans-to-sell-1-1-billion-in-property-loans-seized-from-failed-banks.html
The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
plans to seek bids for about $1.12 billion of commercial and
residential real estate loans as part of the agency’s sale of
assets seized from failed banks.  The scheduled sales are composed of about $773 million in
residential acquisition, development and construction loans and
$351 million of debt related to commercial properties, according
to preliminary announcements dated yesterday and obtained by
Bloomberg News. Cushman & Wakefield Inc. and  UniCorp Services
Inc.  are the marketing agents for the sealed-bid auctions.  The FDIC has completed at least 18 structured-asset sales,
auctioning stakes in loans with a total face value of $21.2
billion, since May 2008, according to data on its  website  and
purchaser announcements. Bank failures have totaled 127 in the
U.S. this year as souring residential and commercial property
loans impair the companies’ capital.  “It was sensible for them to try and manage their assets
in this way,”  Steven Kaplan , a finance professor at the
University of Chicago’s Booth School of Business, said of the
FDIC. “People do not want to own those assets, and anytime
people are afraid of a particular asset class and illiquidity,
there’s usually an opportunity to buy things at attractive
prices.”  Mariner Holdings LLC last month bought part of a  $762
million  portfolio of property loans from the FDIC. A unit of
Mariner, an asset manager based in Leawood, Kansas, paid about
$52 million for a 40 percent stake in the portfolio, the company
said in a Sept. 2 statement.  Residential Loans  The latest loan sales planned by the FDIC are being
marketed in separate residential and commercial parts. The
collateral in the residential portion is in 41 states, with
Florida, Michigan, Utah, Arizona and Indiana home to more than
three-quarters of the properties. The portfolio is slated to be
divided into northern, southeastern and western pools, according
to an announcement.  The commercial sale is expected to be split into two pools,
according to a separate announcement. One portion will have
loans backed by properties in the northern and western U.S. and
the other will have debt from the Southeast. The collateral for
the commercial loans is in 12 states, with Florida, Utah,
Nevada, Michigan and Arizona accounting for 88 percent.  Due-Diligence Deposit  Buyers for the debt, a mix of performing and overdue loans,
must meet qualification requirements including the payment of a
$250,000 due-diligence deposit, according to the announcements.
Bids are due Nov. 16. The portfolios will be sold as structured
transactions, meaning the FDIC will share ownership and proceeds
with the winning bidder.  David Barr , a spokesman for the FDIC in Washington, and
Martin Nee, a spokesman for New York-based Cushman, both
declined to comment. John Lester of Dallas-based  UniCorp  didn’t
return a telephone message or e-mail.  AmTrust Bank and Irwin Union Bank & Trust Co. are among the
failed banks whose loans are in the planned sales. Irwin Union,
based in Columbus, Indiana, was closed on Sept. 18, 2009, and
 AmTrust  of Cleveland was taken over by federal regulators on
Dec. 4, according to the FDIC’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Louis  in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 