-- Fed Easing Will Drive 10-Year Yields to Record Low 2%, BT Investment Says
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 2010-10-01T00:14:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/fed-easing-will-drive-10-year-yields-to-record-low-2-bt-investment-says.html
Yields on  10-year Treasury  notes will
drop to a record low as the Federal Reserve expands its program
of government debt purchases intended to keep borrowing costs
down, BT Investment Management Ltd. said.  The Fed moved closer to a second wave of so-called
quantitative easing by focusing on inflation in a statement
following its Sept. 21 meeting, said Vimal Gor, the Sydney-based
head of income and fixed interest at BT Investment. Policy
makers said for the first time that day that too-low inflation,
in addition to sluggish growth, would warrant taking action.  “The strongest conviction trade I have is to be long U.S.
bonds because the Fed has told you they’re going to buy,” said
Gor, who oversees A$12 billion ($11.6 billion). “The Fed will
do whatever they need to do to inflate the economy in the U.S.”  The benchmark bond yield will decline below 2 percent,
breaking its December 2008 low, once the Fed acts, Gor said.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. said Sept. 27 there’s a 75 percent
chance the Federal Reserve will start another round of asset
purchases before the end of this year to boost the world’s
biggest economy. Consumer prices excluding food and fuel costs
rose 0.9 percent in August from a year earlier, matching the
smallest increase since the 1960s. The policy-setting Federal
Open Market Committee next meets Nov. 2-3 in Washington.  ‘Sweet Spot’  The Fed bought mortgage debt and Treasuries from late 2008
through March 2010 in its previous bout of quantitative easing.
The purchases helped end the longest economic downturn since
World War II without securing a recovery strong enough to reduce
joblessness.  Fed policy makers said Sept. 21 they were “prepared to
provide additional accommodation if needed to support the
economic recovery and to return inflation, over time, to levels
consistent with its mandate."  The ‘‘sweet spot’’ for investors is seven-year to 10-year
Treasuries, Gor said. Those securities have returned 14 percent
this year, beating the 8.8 percent return from U.S. government
debt of all maturities, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data.  The  yield  on the benchmark 10-year note was little changed
at 2.51 percent as of 8:52 a.m. in Tokyo, according to BGCantor
Market Data. It fell to a record low of 2.0352 percent on Dec.
18, 2008.  The bonds would be ‘‘the biggest sell in the world,’’ once
yields approach 2 percent, said Gor.  Inverted Yield Curve  BT Investment predicts that the rally in U.S. debt coupled
with an Australian central bank that’s preparing to increase
interest rates may cause Australia’s yield curve to invert.  Gor’s biggest bet in his home market is a so-called yield-
curve-flattener trade that profits as the gap narrows between
short- and long-term government bond rates, he said.  The  difference  between two- and 10-year Australian
sovereign debt narrowed to 20 basis points on Sept. 30, the
least since September 2008.  The median  estimate  of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News is for Reserve Bank Governor Glenn Stevens to increase the
Australian benchmark rate by a quarter percentage point to 4.75
percent on Oct. 5. The bank will raise the key rate by nearly 50
basis points over 12 months, according to a Credit Suisse AG
 index  based on swaps trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net ;
Will McSheehy at   wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net . 