-- Fiat's Labor Troubles Won't Affect Chrysler's UAW Talks, Marchionne Says
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s   a n d   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2010-10-01T13:15:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/fiat-labor-troubles-won-t-affect-chrysler-s-uaw-talks-ceo-says.html
Fiat SpA ’s troubles with Italian
labor unions won’t impact Chrysler Group LLC’s contract
negotiations with the United Auto Workers next year, the
companies’ top executive said.  Sergio Marchionne , chief executive officer of both Fiat and
Chrysler, has dealt with labor unrest in Italy for months as
he’s tried to implement an unprecedented attempt to curb
strikes, shorten sick leave and increase productivity at a
factory near Naples as part of a plan to boost production in
Fiat’s home market by more than half.  “The degree of transparency and openness and acceptance of
change that we have seen out of the American side is something
which is commendable and should be adopted,” Marchionne told
reporters at the Paris Motor Show. The relationship with the UAW
“cannot be better,” he said.  Marchionne met this week with UAW President  Bob King , who
was in Italy as part of a trade mission by Detroit-area leaders
to lure Fiat suppliers to Michigan.  “The message was very clear that this is a new UAW, this
is a flexible one, this is one that will work with you to give
you value added,”  Robert Ficano , Wayne County executive, said
of the trip in a telephone interview from Turin this week. The
county he governs includes Detroit.  The King visit comes about a year before official
negotiations are expected to begin between the UAW and Detroit
automakers over a new labor contract. The four-year contracts
expire in 2011.  Italian Struggles  Marchionne’s efforts to improve productivity in Italy,
which lags behind the company’s plants in Brazil and Poland,
have angered Italian labor.  Fiat, the country’s biggest manufacturer, plans to invest
 20 billion euros  through 2014 to improve factories and vehicle
development in exchange for changes in work rules. Marchionne
wants to lift production in Fiat’s home market to as many as
1.4 million passenger cars a year by 2014.  While a majority of workers at the Pomigliano factory near
Naples approved the deal, more than a third of them voted
against it, saying it violated their constitutional right to
strike.  “Fiat is making an unprecedented attack on workers’ rights
in Italy. Our response should be calling on a general strike,”
said Maurizio Landini, head of the FIOM Union, in a statement
yesterday.  Marchionne said he will go ahead with the plan, called
“Fabbrica Italia” or “The Italian factory,” only if unions
agree to lift productivity in a new labor contract.  “I’m totally optimistic,” Marchionne said today.  Uncharacteristic Strain  The CEO’s strained ties with some elements of Italian labor
haven’t always been the case, said  Harley Shaiken , a labor
expert at the University of California at Berkeley.  “Marchionne made his mark by having a good relation with
Italian unions, so what’s taking place right now is not
necessarily indicative of what might happen next year” with the
UAW, Shaiken said.  U.S. and Italian labor unions operate differently,  Gary Chaison , a professor of industrial relations at Clark University
in Worcester, Massachusetts, said in a telephone interview.  “In Italy, it’s constant guerilla warfare when you’re
dealing with a labor union,” he said. “In the United States,
dealing with the  United Auto Workers  is just part of
management’s decision-making model.”  Across Atlantic  The strife hasn’t gone unnoticed by labor unions in North
America and comes about a year after they faced difficult
negotiations involving Chrysler’s bankruptcy reorganization.  Ken Lewenza , president of the Canadian Auto Workers union,
said he’s followed the Italian labor issue closely but doesn’t
see similarities in the situation with Canadian workers.  “It’s a complicated process and it’s a complicated culture
in Italy,” he said in a telephone interview. “You have a
situation that’s much different in Canada then in Italy. In
Canada, when we ratify a collective agreement by the majority
then that collective agreement applies.”  The CAW and Chrysler have their differences but “we’ve had
some pretty open dialogue with Marchionne and his entire
management team,” Lewenza said. “They’re very accessible.”  Said Lewenza: “The relationship has been good.”  King, in an Aug. 19 interview, said he didn’t know anything
more about the Italian labor situation than what he read in news
reports.  “We’re very supportive of the Italian unions. And we’re
very supportive of Marchionne’s plan in the U.S. and his world-
class manufacturing,” King said. “I don’t know, other than
what I read in the paper. We’ve not been asked to get involved
at this point.”  Fiat’s Stake  Marchionne and Fiat’s 20 percent ownership stake will be a
new variable in the 2011 labor negotiations.  The previous round of contract negotiations in 2007
involved a strike by then- General Motors Corp.  workers and
strong vocal opposition by Chrysler workers about the negotiated
agreement.  The agreement made history: It ushered in a two-tier wage
that pays new hires half as much as previous workers and shifted
the union retirees’ health-care obligations to a trust fund.  The union and companies went through difficult concession
negotiations again last year tied to the U.S. government
bailouts of the two automakers, including the elimination of the
so-called jobs bank that paid laid-off workers their normal
wages.  Tensions rose between Marchionne and then-UAW President  Ron Gettelfinger  during last year’s negotiations, said  Steven Rattner , who led President  Barack Obama ’s auto task force at the
time. In his book “Overhaul” about the bailout, is a scene in
which the CEO lectures Gettelfinger “about the need for the
autoworkers to accept a ‘culture of poverty’ instead of a
‘culture of entitlement.’”  In Paris, Marchionne said his relationship with the UAW was
based on the “pretty intensive dialogue” in 2009.  “I think that there were a number of things that were
cleared up at the time on the future of the car industry in the
U.S.,” Marchionne said. “Now those conditions have changed.
It’s a matter of fact that relations have strengthened.”  He reiterated that the interactions with the UAW should be
a model of cooperation for European labor.  “Even though I said publicly that I think hopefully the
Europeans can take that as a model of collaboration, we keep on
running into obstacles,” Marchionne said.  -- With assistance from  Jeff Green  in Southfield, Michigan, and
 Sara Gay Forden  in Washington. Editors:  Jamie Butters ,  Kenneth Wong .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tim Higgins  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 Thiggins21@bloomberg.net ;
 Tommaso Ebhardt  in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 