-- California Candidate Fiorina Wants Greater Transparency for Hedge Funds
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2010-10-01T04:19:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/fiorina-wants-more-transparency-for-hedge-fund-holdings-trades.html
Carly Fiorina , campaigning to be
 California ’s first Republican senator elected in two decades,
said hedge funds should be subject to greater transparency
requirements and the financial regulatory overhaul known as the
Dodd-Frank Act doesn’t go far enough.  The lightly regulated businesses that engaged in some of
the riskiest activities, the so-called shadow financial system
targeted by the legislation, still exist, the former  Hewlett-
Packard Co.  chief executive officer said in an interview
yesterday in Bloomberg’s San Francisco office.  “Hedge funds should be subject to transparency, I think
we’ve got to see what’s going on in those capital flows,” said
Fiorina, 56. The  Dodd-Frank Act  “punishes hedge funds, but it’s
not clear to me we’ve created transparency in hedge funds.”  Fiorina hopes to unseat Senator  Barbara Boxer , a Democrat,
next month to become the first Republican elected to the senate
from California since  Pete Wilson  in 1988. The former CEO has
raised about $14 million less than Boxer, a three-term
incumbent, and trails her opponent by as much as 9 percentage
points in statewide polls.  The Dodd-Frank Act, named for its authors, Senator
 Christopher Dodd , a Connecticut Democrat, and Representative
 Barney Frank , a Massachusetts Democrat, was enacted in July to
take aim at abuses that led to the worst financial crisis since
the Great Depression.  SEC Registration  The law requires hedge funds to register with the
Securities and Exchange Commission as investment advisers and
provide information about their trades and portfolios so that
regulators can examine the risk posed to the financial system.  “Dodd-Frank ignored a whole set of issues and created some
other issues,” Fiorina said.  The law will set up “a vast new government bureaucracy”
in the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection and “533 new
regulations yet to be written, and there is no way for taxpayers
or voters to understand what those rules are going to be,”
Fiorina said.  Fiorina, who fired more than 17,000 employees in five years
at the helm of Palo Alto, California-based Hewlett-Packard, has
pledged to restore “fiscal accountability.” She would limit
government salaries and benefits and end so-called earmarks by
lawmakers that use federal tax dollars to pay for special home-
district projects.  California Bailout  The federal government shouldn’t be expected to bail out
California, whose fiscal woes include a $19.1 billion budget
deficit, Fiorina said.  “To simply hand California money is going to once again
allow California to punt on making the tough choices that need
to be made,” Fiorina said. “What they can do is put a
competitive tax structure in place.”  She offered her proposal for creating so-called “jobs for
Americans zones,” geographic areas that would receive tax
breaks to lure manufacturing jobs back to the U.S., as another
way to improve the state’s economy.  “We need to be aggressive about matching some of the tax
treatment that other countries are providing,” Fiorina said.
“Ultimately, we have to have a competitive tax structure. We
don’t.”  With California’s unemployment rate at 12.4 percent in
 August , the third-highest in the U.S. behind Nevada and
Michigan, Fiorina also called for a two-year payroll tax holiday
for small businesses and startups that add workers.  Fiorina, a history major in college and a law school
dropout, became the first woman and the first outsider to serve
as Hewlett-Packard CEO when she was hired in 1999 after heading
Lucent Technologies Inc.  Directors  of the computer maker ousted
her in 2005 after the company’s shares  dropped  about 50 percent
on her watch.  Fiorina led Hewlett-Packard’s 2002 acquisition of Compaq
Computer Corp. that was intended to grab a bigger piece of the
personal-computer market. While sales jumped 88 percent to $79.9
billion in 2004 from $42.4 billion in 1999, net income advanced
just 0.2 percent to $3.497 billion from $3.491 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alison Vekshin  in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 