-- First Quantum Starts Arbitration in Washington Over Congo Mining Projects
-- B y   A m a n d a   J o r d a n   a n d   M i c h a e l   K a v a n a g h
-- 2010-10-01T10:07:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/first-quantum-has-started-arbitration-over-its-disputed-projects-in-congo.html
First Quantum Minerals Ltd. ,
fighting to recover mining rights in the Democratic Republic of
Congo, started international arbitration in Washington against
the central African country.  The arbitration, at the International Centre for
Settlement of Investment Disputes, “relates to the unjustified
withdrawal and reissue of certain mining titles” held by First
Quantum units Frontier SPRL and Cie Miniere de Sakania SPRL, or
Comisa, the Vancouver-based company said in a statement today.
First Quantum is contesting the expropriation of the permits and
the possession of its assets and is pursuing damages, it said.  First Quantum lost control of its biggest projects in
Congo during the past year. It has a case before a Paris
arbitration court over the $750 million Kolwezi copper venture,
which Congo shuttered last year and sold in August to Eurasian
Natural Resources Corp. First Quantum last month said it’s also
suing a unit of ENRC for buying the Kolwezi project license.  “Today we are launching another important part of the
ongoing pursuit of our legal rights relating to our investments
in the DRC,” First Quantum President  Clive Newall  said in the
statement. “We are determined to achieve a just outcome and to
uphold the standards of good governance.”  First Quantum said on Aug. 27 that it had suspended
operations at the $249 million Frontier mine after the
government withdrew its permit.  “We haven’t been served with any papers yet so we cannot
really comment,” Congo’s ambassador to South Africa,  Bene M’Poko , who handles the government responses to the First
Quantum case, said by phone today from Pretoria.  Congo’s Mines Minister  Martin Kabwelulu  said on Sept. 3
that the Frontier mine had been sold to a Hong Kong-based
company called Fortune. M’Poko declined to provide more details
about the Fortune deal. “The situation is quite delicate when
talking to potential partners,” he said. “We are looking for a
responsible, reliable partner.’  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Amanda Jordan  in London at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net  