-- Foreclosure Errors Cloud Homeownership With `Blighted Titles'
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M .   H o w l e y
-- 2010-10-01T22:35:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/foreclosure-errors-cloud-homeownership-with-millions-of-blighted-titles-.html
U.S. courts are clogged with a record
number of  foreclosures . Next, they may be jammed with suits
contesting property rights as procedural mistakes in those cases
cloud titles establishing ownership.  “Defective documentation has created millions of blighted
titles that will plague the nation for the next decade,” said
Richard Kessler, an attorney in Sarasota, Florida, who conducted
a study that found errors in about three-fourths of court
filings related to home repossessions.  Attorneys general in at least six states are investigating
borrowers’ claims that some of the nation’s largest home lenders
and loan servicers are making misstatements in foreclosures.
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.  is asking judges to postpone foreclosure
rulings, while Ally Financial Inc. said Sept. 21 its GMAC
Mortgage unit would halt evictions. The companies said employees
may have completed affidavits without confirming their accuracy.  Such mistakes may allow former owners to challenge the
repossession of homes long after the properties are resold,
according to Kessler.  Ownership  questions may not arise until a
home is under contract and the potential purchaser applies for
title insurance or even decades later as one deed researcher
catches errors overlooked by another. A so-called defective
title means the person who paid for and moved into a house may
not be the legal owner.  ‘Nightmare Scenario’  “It’s a nightmare scenario,” said  John Vogel , a professor
at the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth College in Hanover,
New Hampshire. “There are lots of land mines related to title
issues that may come to light long after we think we’ve solved
the housing problem.”  The costs for title insurers to defend customers and
reimburse for lost properties rose 14 percent to $480.5 million
in 2010’s first half from a year earlier, according to  American
Land Title Association , a Washington-based industry group.  Fidelity National Financial Inc. of Jacksonville, Florida,
is the largest insurer, with 38 percent of the market in the
second quarter, the association said. First American Title
Insurance Co., a unit of Santa Ana, California-based  First
American Financial Corp. , is No. 2, with a 27 percent share.  Fidelity National said today that any documentation flaws
“will not have a material impact on its title business.” Even
if a court stops a foreclosure because of title problems, “the
foreclosing lender would be required to return to our insureds
all funds obtained from them, resulting in no loss under the
title insurance policy,” the company said in a statement.  Shares Drop  Fidelity National shares  fell  4.3 percent to $15.04 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the biggest
decline in 11 months. First American Financial sank 3.1 percent
to $14.48, the most since Sept. 7.  Title insurers use their records and public documents to
verify a seller is the home’s true owner and that the  property 
is free from liens. They collect a one-time premium and pay
costs that may arise if someone challenges a new owner’s right
to the property. To obtain a mortgage, buyers are required to
purchase a policy to protect the lender. Many people also get a
so-called owners policy to protect themselves.  “Title is everything,” said  Susan Wachter , a real estate
professor at the University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton School in
Philadelphia. “There’s no collateral without possession, and
that is title.”  ‘Little Adverse Impact’  The American Land Title Association said in a statement
today that documentation problems “will ultimately have little
adverse impact on the new owners” of foreclosed properties. The
group represents more than 3,800 title-insurance companies.  “It is unlikely that a court will take property from an
innocent current homeowner and return it to a previous homeowner
who failed to make payments on the loan subject to the
foreclosure,”  Kurt Pfotenhauer , the association’s chief
executive officer, said in the statement.  Almost one-fourth of U.S. home  sales  in the second quarter
involved properties in some stage of mortgage distress,
RealtyTrac Inc. said yesterday. In August, lenders took
possession of record 95,364 homes and issued foreclosure filings
to 338,836 homeowners, or one out of every 381 U.S. households,
according to the Irvine, California-based data seller.  The biggest deficiency in foreclosure suits is missing or
improperly handled documents, Kessler found in his study of
court filings in Florida’s Sarasota County. When home loans are
granted, borrowers sign a promissory note outlining payment
obligations and a separate mortgage that puts an encumbrance on
the property in the lender’s name. If mortgages are resold, both
documents must be properly conveyed to prevent competing claims.  Bundled Into Securities  Most of the document errors involved mortgages that had
been bundled into securities sold to investors, Kessler said. At
the end of the U.S. real estate boom in 2005 and 2006, about 70
percent of the $6.1 trillion in  mortgage  lending was packaged
into bonds, according to the Securities Industry and Financial
Markets Association in New York.  Typically, bundling a mortgage involved three transactions:
originators sold loans to companies that packaged them, those
firms sold the loans to interim trusts, and then they were put
into bonds, Kessler said.  “A mortgage has to follow the proper trail every step of
the way, or you have title problems,” he said.  In some cases, mortgages were conveyed using the Reston,
Virginia-based Mortgage Electronic Registration System, or MERS,
designed to cover transfers among system members. Promissory
notes also often were endorsed as payable to the bearer to avoid
the need for multiple transfers. Both practices have been
challenged in court.  Copies of Documents  Copies of documents aren’t enough to establish rights, just
as copies of dollar bills wouldn’t be honored by a bank, said
Geoff Walsh, an attorney with the National Consumer Law Center
in Boston. In cases of lost or mishandled paperwork, attorneys
may file affidavits and other evidence to correct omissions and
establish a claim, Walsh said.  Given the volume of mortgage securitization, it was easy
for paperwork to get lost, said Kathleen Engel, a financial
services law professor at Suffolk University in Boston.  “Wall Street was very good at packaging loans and making
sure the money flowed to the right people, but not so good at
keeping track of mortgage documents,” Engel said. As a result,
“we have a growing number of toxic titles,” she said.  GMAC, based in Detroit, said in a Sept. 20 statement that
it had told its brokers and agents there might be issues with
“judicially required forms” tied to home  repossessions . An 
employee said in a December 2009 deposition that he signed
thousands of documents without verifying their accuracy.  ‘Very Worried’  “If I were in the title industry, or a mortgage holder, or
someone who bought a foreclosed property, this is something I
would be very worried about,” said  Michael Carliner , a Potomac,
Maryland-based economic consultant specializing in housing.  Attorneys general in Florida, Texas, Iowa, Illinois, North
Carolina and Connecticut have started their own investigations
into GMAC. In addition, Florida investigators have issued
subpoenas to three law firms after homeowners facing eviction
said the firms pursued foreclosures without following proper
procedure.  JPMorgan must prove its home foreclosures are legal, and if
it can’t, must stop the practice, California Attorney General
 Jerry Brown  said today. He made a similar demand on Sept. 24 of
GMAC.  Foreclosure Reversal  “This is the most important issue of the whole mortgage
mess because families are being thrown out of their homes by
people who may not have the right to do that,” said Glenn
Russell, a Fall River, Massachusetts, real estate attorney who
won a case last year that reversed a foreclosure because of
faulty paperwork.  Mark and Tammy LaRace, his clients, were able to move back
into their Cape Cod-style house in Springfield, Massachusetts,
more than two years after they were evicted.  In February, Judge Keith Long of the Massachusetts Land
Court reaffirmed his 2009 decision to return the house to the
LaRaces. San Francisco-based Wells Fargo & Co., which initiated
the suit in an attempt to clear the property’s title after it
foreclosed on it, has appealed the decision. The case now is
under consideration by the state’s Supreme Judicial Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kathleen M. Howley  in Boston at 
 kmhowley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 