-- France Faces a Third Day of Protests Over Sarkozy's Pension-System Reform
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2010-10-01T11:48:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/france-faces-a-third-day-of-protests-over-sarkozy-s-pension-system-reform.html
France faces demonstrations across
the country tomorrow, the third day of protests in a month over
President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s proposed pension-system overhaul.  Labor unions want the government to suspend plans to raise
the retirement age, which were approved by the National Assembly
on Sept. 15. The last protest, on Sept. 23, drew between 997,000
and 3 million protesters, according to diverging data published
by the police and by unions. No strikes are planned.  “The demonstrations may be big,” Georges Tron, the
minister for civil servants, told  Canal Plus  television today.
“It won’t change the precise elements” of the government plan,
he said.  Sarkozy’s pension bill raises the retirement age to 62 from
60 and the age for a full pension to 67 from 65. Unions want the
retirement age to stay at 60 with reform after the 2012
presidential elections. The government says it has made enough
concessions to allow people who started work as teenagers to
retire at 60. The Senate begins debating the proposal on Oct. 5.  French unions chose to hold  marches on Saturday s to avoid
penalizing workers who don’t get paid for strike days and
encourage participation.  A further protest is planned for Oct. 12. CFDT union leader
 Francois Chereque  said today on  RTL radio  he expects between 2
and 3 million demonstrators to take part tomorrow.  “We have the ability to stop this reform,”  Confederation
Generale du Travail  labor union leader  Bernard Thibault  told the
free daily Metro today. “The last demonstrations showed that a
very big majority of workers do not share the government’s
plans.”  Europe Protests  Unions across Europe are staging protests as governments
slash spending to cut budget deficits inflicted by the global
recession. Spanish workers disrupted transport and television
broadcasts in the first general strike in eight years on Sept.
29 and more than 100,000 demonstrators descended on Brussels.  The French government argues that increasing the retirement
age is necessary to cope with an ageing population and will save
billions of euros.  The state pension fund will lose 10.7 billion euros ($14.7
billion) this year, with the shortfall reaching 50 billion euros
in 2020 without a change in policy, according to the Budget
Ministry. Unions and the opposition  Socialist Party  want to plug
losses through higher taxes on capital and on high earners.  Opposition to tighter pension rules sparked extended
strikes in 2003 and 2007. In 1995, President  Jacques Chirac 
dropped an attempt to eliminate retirement privileges for
transport workers after walkouts crippled the country.  France’s legal retirement age has been 60 since  Francois Mitterrand  cut it from 65 after his 1981 election. Germany
decided in 2007 to raise its retirement age gradually to 67 from
65. Spain and Italy have also increased their retirement ages to
65 to address the squeeze of longer life expectancies and
declining birth rates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Helene Fouquet  in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  