-- Franc Weakens Versus Euro After PMI Falls, Retail Sales Slow
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2010-10-01T15:46:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/franc-weakens-versus-euro-after-pmi-falls-retail-sales-slow.html
The franc weakened versus the euro as
a gauge of  manufacturing growth  fell to the lowest since
February and retail sales slowed, indicating the Swiss economic
recovery is cooling and curtailing demand for the currency.  The franc extended its weekly decline to 1.2 percent after
the SVME purchasing managers’ index dropped to 59.7 from 61.4 in
August, Zurich-based  Credit Suisse Group AG  said in an e-mailed
statement. Economists had forecast a slide to 60.7, according to
the median of 11 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. Swiss
retail-sales growth also slowed in the month.  “The franc has fallen as the data today has come in much
worse than expected,” said  Simon Smollett , a foreign-exchange
strategist at Credit Agricole SA in London.  The franc was 0.2 percent weaker at 1.3421 per euro as of
4:05 p.m. in London, extending a 4.1 percent decline through
September. The Swiss currency strengthened 0.6 percent against
the dollar to 97.63 centimes, after yesterday reaching a record
of 97.09 centimes, according to Bloomberg data.  August retail sales, adjusted for inflation, rose 0.5
percent percentage point from a year earlier after increasing a
revised 4.7 percent in July, the Federal Statistics Office in
Neuchatel, Switzerland, said in an e-mailed statement today.  The Swiss National Bank left its benchmark three-month
 Libor target rate  unchanged at 0.25 percent on Sept. 16 and
downgraded its inflation outlook. The SNB said the recovery “is
not yet sustainable” and there’s a “possibility that inflation
will temporarily turn slightly negative” at the beginning of
next year.  “It looks like the SNB might have been right about
Switzerland entering a deflationary period,” said Smollett.
“This maybe justifies the rally in Euro-Swiss we’ve seen in the
last week.”  In June, the Zurich-based central bank signaled it will
phase out its 15-month policy of countering franc gains through
purchases of foreign currencies to protect exports and fight
deflation. It said today that it would only take “measures
necessary” if there was any “renewed threat of deflation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephen Morris  in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  