-- GE Buys Calnetix Unit to Get Power From Wasted Heat, Tap $1 Billion Market
-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e   a n d   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2010-10-01T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/ge-buys-calnetix-unit-to-produce-electricity-from-wasted-heat.html
General Electric Co.  said it bought
the waste-heat power generation business of closely held
Calnetix Inc. to add to its biogas equipment unit and tap into a
market it estimates at $1 billion.  Calnetix Power Solutions Inc. , based in Stuart, Florida,
makes machines that capture heat from turbines and engines and
turn it into electricity, said  Prady Iyyanki , chief executive
officer of Jenbacher, the GE unit that will operate the
business. Financial terms weren’t disclosed.  “It’s a $1 billion space, so there’s money to be made
here,” Iyyanki said. The acquisition is part of GE’s push into
“green” technology, he said.  GE CEO  Jeffrey Immelt  has called for a national standard
for regulations on renewable energy use in part so manufacturers
can build to one U.S. benchmark rather than laws that can vary
by state. GE bought the Jenbacher unit, which makes electricity
from landfill and biogas sources such as cow manure, in 2003.  Iyyanki declined to provide the Calnetix unit’s sales or
how much GE plans to invest in the company, which employs more
than 50 people.  The market now is mostly in Europe because of subsidies for
alternative energy, Iyyanki said. GE expects to make the
technology profitable without subsidies in a few years by
lowering costs and producing more systems to improve the
economies of scale, he said.  Calnetix Power Solutions has sold 28 systems since it was
founded in 2008, and 12 are operational, Iyyanki said. The
system can boost the output of a turbine by 10 percent, he said.  GE is the world’s biggest maker of power-generation
equipment, with its gear providing about a third of global
electricity output, and is expanding its lines of renewable
energy products. GE Energy Infrastructure, based in Atlanta,
provided $37 billion of the Fairfield, Connecticut-based parent
company’s $156.7 billion in  revenue  last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rachel Layne  in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net  and
 Thomas Black  in Monterrey at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  