-- Geithner's Oversight Council Seeks to Identify Firms Posing Systemic Risk
-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2010-10-01T21:23:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/geithner-s-oversight-council-seeks-to-identify-firms-posing-systemic-risk.html
A group of regulators charged with
preventing another financial crisis met for the first time today
under the chairmanship of Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner 
and started the process of identifying companies whose failure
could pose a risk to the broader economy.  The Financial Stability Oversight Council agreed to release
questions for public comment on designating firms for increased
supervision. The group also began work on implementing the so-
called Volcker rule barring bank holding companies from trading
for their own accounts.  Geithner said regulators would try “to preserve the right
balance between the tough rules our system clearly requires, but
we want rules that are still going to encourage innovation and
competition.” He spoke during a part of the meeting at the
Treasury Department in Washington that was open to media.  The council, which includes Federal Reserve  Ben S. Bernanke 
and was created by the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul law, has
the authority to recommend that the Fed and other agencies
toughen rules to reduce risk at banks as well as non-bank
financial institutions. Geithner said yesterday its authority
could encompass firms such as American International Group Inc.,
the insurer bailed out by the government, and GE Capital.  Deciding which firms are systemically important “isn’t a
matter of big, it’s a matter of how much reliance is placed upon
the particular institution and its operations,” said  Wayne Abernathy , an executive vice president at the American Bankers
Association and a former Treasury official.  Stepping In  The council’s mandate is to gather together federal
agencies with different areas of expertise monitoring the firms
so that regulators can step in before the companies damage the
rest of the financial system.  “We all have our individual interests, our skills, our
perspectives,” Bernanke said. “This council allows us to pool
those perspectives and each of us to learn from the rest of us
what’s happening in the financial system.”  The group supplants the smaller President’s Working Group
on Financial Markets, formed in response to the October 1987
stock market crash.  Brian Olasov , a managing director at the McKenna Long &
Aldridge law firm in Atlanta, said he’s skeptical the council
will be able to foresee financial crises.  “I don’t question whether the council is a worthwhile
endeavor,” said Olasov, who specializes in banking and
financial markets. “I just have reduced expectations on the
council’s ability to see around corners.”  Council Components  The council also includes Securities and Exchange
Commission Chairman  Mary Schapiro , Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. Chairman Sheila Bair and Commodity Futures Trading
Commission Chairman  Gary Gensler .  The Dodd-Frank law allows stricter oversight “not just to
banks, but to entities that are banks in all but name, whether
you call them investment banks or AIG, or GE Capital,” Geithner
said yesterday at a conference in Washington. Regulators can
require “any institution that has potential systemic
implications for the economy” to operate more conservatively,
he said.  At a Senate Banking Committee hearing yesterday, regulators
said the council won’t threaten the independence or authority of
their agencies.  “It is important to remember that the council was formed to
take a long-term, macro viewpoint,” Bair told the committee.
“It was not meant to interfere with or complicate the ability
of the independent agencies to fulfill their statutory mandates
and move ahead with clearly needed reforms.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ian Katz  in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  