-- Geithner Bets on AIG, MetLife Stock in U.S. Bailout Wind-Down
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2010-10-01T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/geithner-wagers-on-aig-metlife-stock-in-u-s-treasury-s-bailout-wind-down.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner ’s plan to recoup taxpayer bailout funds is increasingly
dependent on the stock price of insurers  American International
Group Inc.  and MetLife Inc.  The government’s stake in AIG will rise to 92 percent from
about 80 percent under the revision to the New York-based
insurer’s rescue announced yesterday. The Treasury Department
must find buyers for $49.1 billion in AIG stock and $8.7 billion
in  MetLife equities  starting next year.  “There are a lot of ‘ifs’ for the government to be able to
rapidly exit all this common stock,” said  Clark Troy , senior
analyst at Aite Group in Chapel Hill, North Carolina. “If all
the stars are aligned, if the perception of double-dip risk is
cleansed from the system, if you get better pricing in the
property-casualty markets, it may work.”  AIG, once the world’s largest insurer, turned over a
majority stake to the U.S. in 2008 amid a rescue that swelled to
$182.3 billion. The exit plan converts the government’s
preferred stock into 1.66 billion common shares for sale on the
open market and taps a Treasury facility for as much as $22
billion to retire Federal Reserve bailout vehicles.  Mark Paustenbach , a Treasury spokesman, declined to comment.  For Treasury to break even on its $49.1 billion investment
in AIG stock, the shares must be sold for almost $30. The
company traded below that level for more than two months this
year, reaching a low of $22.15 on Feb. 8.  When to Sell?  The U.S. sales will happen in phases over 18 months to two
years starting in 2011, said a person with direct knowledge of
the Treasury plan. The length of the sale period was meant to
avoid flooding the market with AIG shares, said the person, who
declined to be identified because details of the strategy are
confidential. Investors will also receive warrants with a $45
strike price to dissuade them from dumping shares.  AIG rose $1.65, or 4.4 percent to $39.10 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading yesterday and has gained about 30
percent  this year . It slipped 4.5 percent last year and plunged
97 percent in 2008.  Proceeds from the sale of two non-U.S. life insurance
divisions, American Life Insurance Co. and AIA Group Ltd., will
pay down the approximate $19 billion owed on AIG’s Fed credit
line. MetLife has said that its purchase of Alico is “on
track” to be completed on Nov. 1. AIG may hold an initial
public offering for AIA in October.  ‘Important Asset’  MetLife agreed to pay $6.8 billion in cash and $8.7 billion
in securities including stock to buy Alico. The total deal was
valued at $15.5 billion, based on the March 5 MetLife share
price of $38.92. The stock closed yesterday at $38.45.  MetLife shares obtained in the sale “are an important
asset” that “will be part of the architecture” of AIG’s deal
to repay the U.S., AIG Chairman  Steve Miller  said in a Sept. 29
interview. The securities, previously committed to the Fed, will
go to the Treasury.  Treasury may not receive all of the MetLife securities
because $3 billion will be put in escrow to indemnify the buyer
from potential costs tied to Alico. MetLife can recover some
stock if Alico’s Japanese commercial real estate holdings
decline and there are legal claims and regulatory fines tied to
European funds in which client withdrawals were suspended.  “While there is a lot of work ahead to execute the terms
of this agreement, today we are much closer to seeing a clear
path out,” Geithner said yesterday in a statement. The exit
strategy “puts taxpayers in a considerably stronger position to
recoup our investment.”  TARP Estimate  If the government breaks even on AIG’s bailout, a recent
$105 billion cost estimate for the Troubled Asset Relief Program
would be reduced by about half. Geithner said last week that the
U.S. would “largely get the taxpayers’ money back” from the
$700 billion TARP fund.  AIG’s existing common shareholders, who hold about 20
percent of the company, will have their stake diluted to about
7.9 percent, AIG said yesterday. Those investors will receive as
many as 75 million warrants.  The company’s managers “strongly believe, given how
powerfully AIG and its businesses have rebounded” that the firm
will repay the U.S. at a profit, Miller and Chief Executive
Officer  Robert Benmosche  said yesterday in a letter to staff.  Treasury invested about $47.5 billion in AIG buying
preferred stock, and the insurer owed $1.6 billion in interest.
Based on that investment, the conversion would give Treasury
shares at $28.70 each. AIG was allowed to skip interest payments
starting last year as part of its fourth rescue.  AIG was first rescued in September 2008 by the Fed after
trading partners demanded payments on derivatives contracts.
After three revisions, the firm’s lifeline included the $60
billion Fed  credit facility , a Treasury investment of as much as
$69.8 billion and up to $52.5 billion to buy mortgage-linked
assets owned or backed by AIG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hugh Son  in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  