-- Irish and Spanish Debt Extend Weekly Rally as Appetite for Risk Returns
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2010-10-01T15:31:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/german-two-year-bonds-fall-for-fourth-day-on-bets-borrowing-costs-may-rise.html
Irish, Spanish and Portuguese
securities advanced, capping a weekly gain, as euro-area nations
took steps to manage their deficits and curb speculation they
may need to activate a European Union-led bailout.  The yield premium investors demand to hold the so-called
peripheral euro-area bonds instead of benchmark bunds narrowed
as Ireland said it would pause debt auctions until 2011 after
detailing costs of a bank bailout. Moody’s Investors Service
said Spain’s credit outlook was stable after cutting its rating
one notch to Aa1. Italy said its economy will grow more than
previously forecast, and Portugal announced new austerity plans.  “The market is breathing a little sigh of relief,” said
 John Davies , a fixed-income analyst at WestLB AG in London.
“That’s allowed people to finally come into the market again,
and allowed spreads to ping back in. There’s still some room for
spreads to tighten a bit further.”  The yield on the Irish 10-year bond fell 26 basis points to
6.40 percent as of 4 p.m. in London, down from 6.61 percent on
Sept. 24. The 4.5 percent security maturing in April 2020 rose
1.63, or 16.30 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,373) face amount, to
86.72. That narrowed the difference in yield, or  spread , with
bunds to 401 basis points from 429 basis points yesterday.  Portuguese 10-year yields declined 19 basis points to 6.18
percent and equivalent-maturity Greek yields fell 30 basis
points to 10.22 percent. Spanish 10-year yields fell 4 basis
points to 4.10 percent.  Bunds Steady  The yield on the 10-year German bund, Europe’s benchmark
government debt security, was little changed at 2.28 percent,
from 2.35 percent last week.  Peripheral nations’ bonds are rallying relative to German
securities as concern eases that political opposition will
hamper efforts to control public finances after Portugal and
Spain this week announced deficit-cutting measures.  “The budget announcements in Spain and Portugal are
evidence that market pressure is still bearing fruit, acting as
a discipline tool,” BNP Paribas SA economists  Luigi Speranza 
and  Eoin O’Callaghan  wrote today in a research note. “This is
certainly a positive element looking forward.”  Greek bonds were the top performers in Europe last quarter,
gaining for the first time since the sovereign-debt crisis
began, as investors bet that record-high yields more than
compensate for the possibility of a default. Investors made a
total return of 3.9 percent on Greek bonds in the three months
ended Sept. 29, indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies show. German bonds
returned 2.1 percent in the same period.  China’s Premier  Wen Jiabao  will use a trip to Greece to
underscore his support for the European country’s economic
recovery, Xinhua News Agency reported, citing an interview with
the Chinese ambassador in Athens.  ECB Auction  German two-year notes fell for a fourth day, sending the
yield to a two-month high, after financial institutions borrowed
less from the ECB than some analysts forecast, boosting
speculation the central bank will withdraw stimulus measures.  The ECB this week lent banks about 133 billion euros in
six-day and three-month funds as 225 billion euros of loans
expired.  “Demand for liquidity showed a sizeable drop this week,”
a team of analysts at UniCredit SpA led by  Luca Cazzulani  in
Milan wrote in a report today. “The overall picture is
encouraging and we hence expect the ECB to continue with its
exit strategy.”  Euribor Rises  The two-year note yield increased 3 basis points to 0.86
percent, after rising to 0.89 percent, the highest since July
27. The three-month euro interbank offered rate, or Euribor,
rose 5 basis points to 0.942 percent today, the European Banking
Federation said. That’s the highest since July 2009 and the
largest single-day increase since Sept. 29, 2008.  German bonds pared a drop today after a report showed U.S.
manufacturing expanded at the slowest pace in 10 months in
September. Growth in Europe’s manufacturing industry also
slowed, and unemployment held at a 12-year high, separate
reports today showed.  The U.S. Institute for Supply Management’s factory index
dropped to 54.4 from 56.3 in August, it said today.  A gauge of manufacturing in the 16-nation euro region
declined to 53.7 in September from 55.1 the previous month,
Markit Economics said today. A separate report showed that the
region’s jobless rate stayed at 10.1 percent in August, the
highest since June 1998.  Fitch Ratings revised its 2010 forecasts for the euro area
and the U.K. up by about half a percentage point to 1.8 percent
and 1.7 percent, respectively, according to an e-mailed
statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  