-- Gillard Visits Belgium on First Overseas Trip as Australian Prime Minister
-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 2010-10-01T03:57:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/gillard-visits-belgium-on-first-overseas-trip-as-australian-prime-minister.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  leaves tomorrow on her first overseas trip as the
nation’s leader to discuss the economic recovery from the global
financial crisis and the country’s role in Afghanistan with
leaders in Europe.  Gillard, 49, will attend the Asia-Europe Meeting, or ASEM,
being held Oct. 4-5 in Brussels. ASEM is made up of 16 Asian
nations, including Japan and China, and 27 European states,
including Germany and Italy, according to its  website .  Gillard held onto power after she wooed three independent
lawmakers and one Greens Party member to back her Labor Party
which lost its majority in Australia’s Aug. 21 election. Labor
helped steer the  economy  through the global recession and has
vowed to keep the 1,550 Australian soldiers in Afghanistan.  “I will be taking the opportunity to discuss our continued
cooperation with NATO partners on Afghanistan,” Gillard said in
an e-mailed statement today. “This is one of the international
meetings at which, as a nation, we pursue dialogue with the
world about recovery from the global financial crisis.”  Australia’s economy skirted the global recession as the
government delivered a stimulus package and exports from the
world’s biggest coal and iron ore shipper surged to China and
India.  “Australia has played its part in world economic forums,
including the G-20, in making sure that the world did not close
down, the world did not move back to protectionism and the world
did not turn its face away from free trade,” Gillard said.
“That is vital for our economic security.”  Treasurer and Deputy Prime Minister  Wayne Swan  will act as
leader, chairing a Cabinet meeting Oct. 5 as the Reserve Bank of
Australia releases its monetary policy decision at 2:30 p.m. on
the same day.  Swan will attend two sporting events as part of his role.
The Australian Football League holds a replay of it final in
Melbourne tomorrow and the National Rugby League stages its
final Oct. 3 in Sydney. Gillard is due to return late on Oct. 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gemma Daley  in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  