-- Goldman Sachs Said to Give London Bankers Stock After Bonus Tax
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2010-10-01T17:07:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/goldman-sachs-said-to-give-london-bankers-stock-after-bonus-tax.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , the most
profitable U.S. securities firm in history, granted stock awards
to its most senior bankers in London after the U.K. government
imposed a one-time tax on bonuses last year, a person briefed on
the discussions said.  The payments were made in about August and were approved by
the U.K.’s Financial Services Authority, said the person, who
declined to be identified as the details are private. The bank
has fewer than 100 partners in London, the person said. A
spokeswoman for the financial watchdog and officials at Goldman
Sachs in London declined to comment.  Ministers from both the coalition’s Conservative and
Liberal Democrat parties have urged banks to curb bonuses
following the credit crisis. Business Secretary  Vince Cable  told
party activists this month banks face “an enormous kickback”
from lawmakers if they pay out large bonuses this year.  “Banks will take whatever steps they deem as being
commercially necessary to make sure they keep the people they
need to make money,” said  Chris Roebuck , a visiting professor
at the Cass Business School in London. “These are the tricks of
the trade.”  The shares can’t be sold for five years and may be clawed
back depending on the bank’s performance, according to Sky News,
which first reported the payments. The awards may be worth in
the high tens of millions of pounds, Sky News reported, citing
unidentified people close to Goldman Sachs.  Ad Campaign  The bank, which agreed in July to pay $550 million to
settle a U.S. regulator’s fraud suit, this week rolled out an
advertising campaign that sought to emphasize the firm’s role in
alternative energy and job creation.  The 50 percent levy on discretionary bonus payments of more
than 25,000 pounds ($40,000) raised 3.5 billion pounds for the
Treasury, according to government figures published this month.
That’s 1 billion pounds more than Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  estimated in June.  Goldman Sachs said in July the U.K. bonus tax cost it about
$600 million. The firm set aside $9.3 billion to pay its 34,100
employees worldwide in the first half of the year, or an average
of $272,580 per person. That compares with $11.4 billion in the
first half of 2009, which equated to $364,134 for each of the
firm’s 31,200 employees at the time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ambereen Choudhury  in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  