-- Golf Agents Expect Sponsorship Growth Over Next Five Years, Survey Says
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2010-10-01T10:19:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/golf-agents-expect-sponsorship-growth-over-next-five-years-survey-says.html
The golf sponsorship and endorsement
market is expected to increase over the next three to five years
as the sport benefits from inclusion in the summer Olympics,
according to an industry survey.  The report by accountants KPMG, entitled the “ The Business
of Professional Tournament Golf, ” surveyed agents worldwide
representing more than 200 golfers, with almost 50 percent
anticipating increased sponsorship opportunities.  “That was quite a surprise,” Andrea Sartori, head of
KPMG’s Golf Advisory Practice in Europe, Middle East and Africa,
said yesterday in an interview after the report was presented at
the Ryder Cup in Newport, Wales. “They have the belief that
golf is a sport that has the right vehicle for sponsors.”  Professional tournament golf has proven to be
“resilient,” the report said, as more than 6,000 players
competed for more than 476 million euros ($654 million) on 32
pro circuits during 2009.  The U.S. PGA Tour continues to be the world’s richest, with
total prize money last year of 196 million euros. The European
Tour had a 16 percent increase in prize money to 135 million
euros.  The report also found strong potential for the sport to
expand in the “rapidly emerging markets” of Asia, thanks to
success of the country’s professional golfers, including 2009
U.S. PGA Championship winner Y.E. Yang. South America is also
seen as a growth area as golf will be part of the 2016 Olympics
in Rio de Janiero.  Tiger Woods  was named the most marketable golfer of all
time in the survey, followed by  Jack Nicklaus ,  Arnold Palmer ,
 Gary Player  and  Greg Norman .  Rory McIlroy  of Northern Ireland
and American Ricky Fowler, both playing in the Ryder Cup, were
viewed as the most marketable under the age of 25, along with
Japanese teenager  Ryo Ishikawa .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in Newport, Wales, at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 