-- Google Maintains Hiring, Seeks Additional Advertisers in China
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2010-10-01T01:22:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/google-maintains-hiring-in-china-seeks-more-advertisers-drummond-says.html
Google Inc.  is adding employees and
redoubling efforts to win new advertisers in China, even as a
clash over censorship casts doubt on its ability to do business
in the country, said Chief Legal Officer  David Drummond .  The company is hiring sales and engineering staff, Drummond
said from Bloomberg’s San Francisco bureau yesterday. The moves
are aimed at helping  Google  regain its footing after Chinese
officials threatened not to renew its service provider license.  “It’s both stable and uncertain,” Drummond said. “We have
a license, we have a structure for operating and serving users
there, but that could change.”  Google, the world’s most popular Internet search engine,
remains concerned about censorship -- and not just in China,
Drummond said.  Google ’s YouTube has been blocked in Turkey for
two years, and videos critical of authorities are restricted in
Thailand, he said. The Mountain View, California-based company
has increased its staff handling government relations globally
by at least 20 percent in the past year.  “We’re very concerned that the openness of the Internet is
under attack,” Drummond said. “We actually have an impact on a
lot of civil societies and governments in a lot of these places
where we have millions of users, so it’s important to be there
and for governments to understand what we’re up to.”  Switch to Hong Kong  In China, a series of attacks on Google computers led the
company to stop censoring search results and instead redirect
visitors to its unfiltered Hong Kong site -- a move that caused
it to lose market share to local rival  Baidu Inc.  Some Google
content is blocked in 25 percent of the countries where it
operates, the company  said  in April. Maintaining a beachhead in
these areas and working with governments can help improve
Google’s global business prospects, Drummond said.  Google’s license to operate in China was renewed in July,
and the company expects it to be renewed again next year,
barring a change in posture from Chinese officials, he said.  Drummond has called on the U.S. and European governments to
take a firmer stance on censorship in foreign countries, arguing
it limits competition in emerging markets.  “Censorship itself is a trade barrier,” he said. “It
actually serves as a form of protectionism.”  Western countries have increasingly held  Google  and other
Web companies responsible for content uploaded by their users --
a dangerous precedent, Drummond said. In February, an Italian
court found Drummond and two other current and former  Google 
employees guilty of privacy violations after a group of students
in the country uploaded a clip of themselves bullying an
autistic classmate.  ‘Crushing Amount’  “That’s a crushing amount of liability to expect Facebook
or YouTube or anyone to bear,” he said. Drummond was sentenced
to a six-month term, which was suspended. Google said at the
time it plans to appeal the “astonishing decision.”  Google  also faces antitrust scrutiny in the U.S. Texas
Attorney General  Greg Abbott ’s office is conducting an antitrust
review, the company  said  in September. Abbott’s office asked for
information on claims that some companies receive higher
rankings in Google’s search-results pages than others. Google’s
acquisitions have also been examined by federal antitrust
authorities.  “We’ve been pretty successful, so I think we sort of
expect to have scrutiny,” Drummond said. “When you look at the
specifics of the cases and some of the complaints, we’re pretty
confident there aren’t any concerns.”  Google is the dominant search provider in the U.S., with
65.4 percent of the market in August, according to Reston,
Virginia-based  ComScore Inc.  Yahoo! Inc. had 17.4 percent, while
 Microsoft Corp. ’s Bing had 11.1 percent.  “When you’re talking about search, you’re talking about a
free product, first of all, where there are lots of
alternatives,” Drummond said. “High market share does not mean
monopoly or market power.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Douglas MacMillan  in San Francisco at 
 Dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
 Brian Womack  in San Francisco at 
 Bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  