-- Governor Christie Stops 100 New Jersey Road Projects Amid Funding Dispute
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   D u n s t a n   M c N i c h o l
-- 2010-10-02T00:32:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/governor-christie-shutters-100-new-jersey-road-projects-amid-funding-flap.html
New Jersey  will halt all state-funded
road construction on Oct. 4, suspending work at about 100 sites,
Transportation Department Commissioner  James S. Simpson  said.  Democratic lawmakers, whose refusal to consider a proposed
$1.4 billion bond sale to replenish the state’s  Transportation
Trust Fund  prompted the order, subsequently called for an
emergency hearing on the debt plan on the day the shutdown would
begin. Governor  Chris Christie  and Simpson earlier blamed
legislative inaction for the disruption.  “This is a matter of major importance to everybody in the
state of New Jersey,”  Michael Drewniak , Christie’s spokesman,
said in an interview. “It will involve thousands of jobs.”  The roadwork fund will run out of money for new projects
next year as payments on more than $12 billion in debt consume
the $895 million paid into the fund annually, Trust Fund
projections show. The bond sale calls for refinancing about $483
million in debt, giving the state more borrowing capacity. The
Legislature’s  Joint Budget Oversight Committee , controlled by
Democrats, must sign off on the refinancing and hasn’t done so.  “New Jersey voters made it quite clear less than two years
ago that they do not want the state borrowing more money without
voter approval, yet Governor Christie is determined to ignore
their wishes with this irresponsible borrowing scheme,” said
Assemblyman  Louis D. Greenwald , a Camden Democrat, in a
statement announcing the Oct. 4 hearing. Greenwald is the budget
panel’s co-chairman.  No Plan  Senator  Paul Sarlo , a Democrat from Bergen and the panel’s
other co-chairman, said last month that the committee would
withhold consideration until Christie, a Republican, presents a
long-term plan for replenishing the Trust Fund.  “The Commissioner’s decision to level a threat to lay off
workers through a late-day press release rather than by picking
up a telephone to discuss this vital matter directly is enough
of a signal that administration has no plan,” Sarlo said in the
statement announcing the hearing.  State Treasurer  Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff  and Simpson will be
asked to testify at the hearing. The debt sale, originally set
for last month, may occur by the middle of this month, Sidamon-
Eristoff said on Sept. 27.  About $1.7 billion in projects will be stopped under
today’s order. Those include the Route 3 Passaic River crossing,
the extension of the Hudson-Bergen light rail line in Bayonne
and design work on 200 more projects, Simpson said in a
statement.  ‘A Tough Blow’  “We’re in trouble,” said Robert Briant, chief executive
officer of the 1,000-member  Utility and Transportation
Contractors Association  and a board member of the Transportation
Trust Fund Authority. “This is a tough blow to take when you
have companies that are already struggling.”  Construction companies will be required to pay workers
through Oct. 4 under union rules, and concrete pours and
equipment deliveries will be disrupted, Briant said.  The state has the authority to issue $200 million to $300
million in debt to fund projects,  David Rosen , a legislative
analyst, said today in a memo to Sarlo.  That would cover only the amount the state has already
advanced to the Trust Fund from its general budget accounts,
Drewniak, the governor’s spokesman, said today by e-mail.  “There is only an estimated $100 million left to keep
projects funded by the TTF,” Drewniak said. “The Trust Fund
needs to pay back the general fund so that the state’s finances
remain strong.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 