-- Governor Rendell Says He'd Like to Succeed Emanuel in His Job(Transcript)
-- B y
-- 2010-10-01T23:42:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/governor-rendell-says-he-d-like-to-succeed-emanuel-in-his-job-transcript-.html
Pennsylvania Governor  Ed Rendell  said
in an interview today on Bloomberg Television’s “Political
Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend, that he’d love to
replace Rahm Emanuel as Barack Obama’s next chief of staff,
while allowing that he may be the last person the president
would pick for the job.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: And we start the program with the governor of
Pennsylvania, Ed Rendell, who joins us from his home state.
Governor, let me ask you this. The polls all show a big
Republican tide. What are the odds as of today that the
Republicans will win the House, maybe the Senate and most of the
big governorships?  ED RENDELL: Well, I actually think that, Al, that the tide
is starting to recede a little bit. I think Democrats are
starting to wake up and decide that they had better get out and
vote. I think some Democrats are coming home.  I think a number of factors are involved here. I think the
president being more aggressive on the stump certainly helps. I
think some Democrats are finally getting a little backbone and
they are talking about the good things we have done and the
difficulties ahead for the country if Republicans control either
one of the chambers.  And I think the wackiness factor with not just Christine
O’Donnell, but Sharron Angle, and the congressional candidate
against Nita Lowey and all this stuff is starting to make a
difference. It is starting to get Democrats alert and it is
starting to get independents questioning where they were going.  HUNT: What are the two things you would like to see
Democrats in your home state and elsewhere do over this last
month?  RENDELL: Well, I would focus on job creation in the future.
Look, you and I think, I am not going to speak for you, but I
believe the stimulus has worked. It certainly wasn’t perfect,
but I think it has created jobs and it has certainly helped
retain jobs.  That is an argument we can’t win, but talk about plans for
going forward. Talk about the things that we have done. The
small business bill I think was a great triumph for the
president, and thanks to Senator Voinovich we finally got it
done. That is a great triumph.  It is important to do those things. I think we have the
best plans to create jobs as we go ahead and I think our
candidates should be talking about that. It should be jobs,
jobs, jobs, focus on to some extent some of the good things that
have been done, but also looking forward to the future.  Infrastructure, everybody understands that infrastructure
creates jobs. They see men and women working on bridges and
roads, and back in the steel plants, and asphalt and concrete
plants. The president’s infrastructure plan is a good plan.  We are going to have to reauthorize ICE-TEA anyway, so why
not frontload $50 billion, and get it into the mainstream and
get that money started to be spent? I think people understand
that, and although the deficit is an issue, when you look at the
polls, job creation and the economy is at 70 percent, deficit is
at 18, 19 percent in terms of how many people think it is the
number one issue.  HUNT: Well, as you know, the Republicans this week issued
their Pledge to America. And what they said is, hey, instead of
tax increases we ought to cut spending. And they offered a -they
said they would cut spending by $100 billion and that seems to
resonate.  RENDELL: Well, I think Democrats are talking about cutting
spending, too. Look, anyone with any sense knows the deficit is
a huge problem. We have to absolutely cut spending in the short
run and the long run.  We have got to do something about entitlement programs, but
we have also to say to the American people, hey, if you are
concerned about the deficit we have got to take, have a serious
discussion about taxes because you can’t just cut spending.  There is not enough discretionary spending and you know
this, Al. So I think we have got to widen and broaden the
discussion, but we have got to stand up and say, look, President
Obama’s budget, the budget he presented for this year, is a
significant deficit-reduction budget. And we are for deficit
reduction, but we also know that at the same time we are
reducing the deficit we have to invest in some job creation
programs.  HUNT: On extending the Bush tax cuts, did the congressional
Democrats blow it by not bringing that issue up before the
election?  RENDELL: Yes. I think we were too scared. And I think we
also downgrade the public’s ability to make decisions based on
somewhat intricate stuff.  I think Republican polls showed it. Absolutely, it was in
favor of eliminating, letting the Bush tax cuts on people who
earn more than $250,000 expire, and at the same time holding
those tax cuts in place for the middle class, maybe not for the
next 10 years, but for until the economy recovers.  I think people wanted that and I think our guys were too
afraid of the rhetoric and they assume that people will say, oh,
you raised taxes.  Well, sure we raised taxes, but we didn’t raise taxes on
you, ma’am. In fact, the Obama stimulus plan cut your taxes. We
raised taxes on people who can afford to pay taxes and, by the
way, we raised taxes back to the level that seven and half years
of the Ronald Reagan administration had.  HUNT: Well, it is interesting. You mentioned the stimulus
and most economists, including the Congressional Budget Office,
the - Mark Zandi from your home state of Pennsylvania, say it
probably saved 2-to-3 million jobs, yet Republicans successfully
are campaigning against it everywhere. Why is it so unpopular if
it was so good?  RENDELL: Well, let me say economists believe and the CBO
says it would have, the unemployment rate would have been a
point -  HUNT: Right.  RENDELL: - to maybe two points higher were it not for
stimulus. The problem is, out of the box at the beginning we got
out-spun, and out-spun with - it was almost like the death panel
stuff. They took a few things that were in the stimulus that
weren’t good and blew it up way out of proportion and we didn’t
answer back. For example, they are for tax cuts, right? That is
all you hear from the Republicans.  HUNT: Right.  RENDELL: Well, how much of that $870 billion was tax cuts,
Al? Do you remember? It was $375 billion worth of tax cuts, tax
cuts to individuals, tax cuts to business, et cetera.  Well, how many Americans know that  HUNT: So why is this president who was such a great
communicator during the campaign, why does he do such a lousy
job of communicating now?  RENDELL: Al, I wish to heck I knew. I - it is the greatest
quandary in my, in all of the 33 years that I have been in
politics. It is the greatest question mark. I cannot, not for
the life of me, figure it out.  We didn’t seize the initiative. We sat back. We let them
sort of define the stimulus in the minds of American people. We
let them define health care.  I have been going around the state as the health care bill
has kicked in and a lot of people think it doesn’t kick in until
2014, but as you know there are six or seven very important
things that are kicking in right now, including a 35 percent tax
credit for small businesses who employ less than 25 people and
are giving health care to their employees. We have been out-spun
by a bunch of people who have no regard for the truth and we sat
back and took it. I am mystified by it.  HUNT: Well, let me tell you, one solution that some people
offer, which is - you are leaving office at the end of this year
and you have talked about maybe going out and making some money
for a change, but there are a number of people I know in
Washington who say, you know, they ought to bring Ed Rendell
into this administration, maybe even as chief of staff at the
White House. If Obama offers you a top job would you take it?  RENDELL: Well, look, Al. The only job that I would be
interested is chief of staff. And as I said, if I were president
I am not sure that I would offer Ed Rendell the job of chief of
staff.  Look, I have always been my own boss since I was 32 years
of age and got elected district attorney. And you know me pretty
well. I am a free spirit. I tell the truth and I like to mix it
up. And that is not the Obama administration’s modus operandi,
to say the least.  But I will tell you this, Al. Whatever the president needs
me to do in a political sense, wherever I am, I will try to help
because I think no one in my lifetime, no president has
inherited tougher problems that weren’t of his own doing, and I
think he has made substantial progress.  Has he been perfect? Absolutely not. I haven’t yet met the
perfect politician, including when I look in the mirror, but he
has done good things for this country and I think with time he
will become an even better president.  HUNT: Well, Governor Ed Rendell, thank you for being with
us. And I know you are not available until the after the World
Series when your Philadelphia Phillies are crowned World
Champions. Thank you very much.  RENDELL: We are going to crush the Yankees this year, crush
those Yankees.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP.  #<678941.54916.2.1.67.17757.25>#
-0- Oct/01/2010 23:42 GMT
 