-- Microsoft Sues Motorola Over Android-Based Phones
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2010-10-02T09:36:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/microsoft-sues-motorola-over-android-based-phones-update1-.html
Microsoft Corp. , the world’s largest
software company, filed patent-infringement claims targeting
 Motorola Inc. ’s Android smartphones, in the latest skirmish in
the growing market for versatile mobile devices.  The nine patents relate to synchronizing e-mail, calendars
and contacts, scheduling meetings, and notifying applications of
changes in signal strength and battery power. Microsoft filed
two complaints yesterday: one with the U.S. International Trade
Commission in Washington, which could ban U.S. imports of the
phones if a violation is found; and a second in federal court in
Seattle in which Microsoft seeks unspecified cash compensation.  Microsoft, based in Redmond, Washington, is overhauling its
mobile-phone operating system to Windows Phone 7 this year to
stem market-share losses to Apple Inc.’s iPhone and phones with
Google Inc.’s Android software. Its Motorola dispute is part of
a burgeoning battle over smartphones that includes Oracle Corp.
suing Google and Apple fighting HTC Corp. and Nokia Oyj.  “There’s a lot of patent lawsuits between handset vendors,
and Motorola and Microsoft just add to the many already
ongoing,” said  Tavis McCourt , an analyst with Morgan Keegan &
Co in Nashville, Tennessee. “It’s a new industry and it’s very
unclear who owns the technologies; the products are moving
faster than the intellectual property,” he said.  The ITC complaint seeks to bar imports of the Motorola
Droid 2, Droid X, i1, Cliq XT, Devour, Backflip, Charm and Cliq,
along with associated software.  Potential Countersuit  Microsoft in April signed a licensing agreement with
Taoyuan, Taiwan-based handset company  HTC  and said that it was
demanding royalties from other makers of Android phones.  “We have a responsibility to our customers, partners and
shareholders to safeguard the billions of dollars we invest each
year,”  Horacio Gutierrez , Microsoft’s deputy general counsel
for intellectual property and licensing, said in a statement.  He added in a blog posting that the “Microsoft innovations
at issue in this case help make smartphones ‘smart.’”  Motorola, based in Schaumburg, Illinois, said it hadn’t
seen the complaint, and wouldn’t comment on the details.  “Motorola has a leading intellectual property portfolio,
one of the strongest in the industry,” the company said in an
e-mail. Motorola said it will “vigorously defend itself.”  “You can expect Motorola to countersue on radio patents,”
McCourt said. “Big picture from an investor perspective, these
lawsuits rarely have a material impact and if they do, it’s many
years later.”  Market Share Falls  Microsoft  fell  11 cents to $24.38 at 4 p.m. New York time
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading and is down about 20 percent  this
year . Motorola rose 3 cents to $8.56 on the New York Stock
Exchange and is up 10 percent  this year .  Google, which wasn’t named in the lawsuit, said it will
“stand behind” its Android system and the partners who helped
with its development.  “We are disappointed that Microsoft prefers to compete
over old patents rather than new products,” said Aaron Zamost,
a Google spokesman. “Sweeping software patent claims like these
threaten innovation.”  Microsoft’s share in the global mobile-phone market fell to
5 percent in the second quarter, from 9.3 percent a year
earlier, according to market-research firm Gartner Inc. Android
climbed to 17 percent from 1.8 percent, while the iPhone rose to
14 percent from 13 percent.  The federal case is Microsoft Corp. v. Motorola Inc.,
10cv1577, U.S. District Court for the Western District of
Washington (Seattle). The ITC case is In the Matter of Certain
Mobile Devices, Associated Software and Components Thereof,
Complaint NO. 2757, U.S. International Trade Commission.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Susan Decker  in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
 Hugo Miller  in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 