-- Tiger Woods at Ryder Cup Learns How to Say ‘We’: Scott Soshnick
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2010-10-01T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/tiger-woods-at-ryder-cup-learns-to-say-we-commentary-by-scott-soshnick.html
Tiger Woods  has long been
indifferent, to say the least, about the Ryder Cup, his
participation explained more by obligation than patriotism.  So entrenched in the go-it-alone, me-against-you mindset of
professional golf is Woods that he never wrapped himself in the
flag or, even more importantly, the friendship opportunities
afforded by the every-other-year competition between the U.S.
and Europe.  Expect a different Woods at the 38th installment of the
Ryder Cup, which begins today and which couldn’t come at a
better time for the man who, according to  points  and not play,
is considered the world’s best golfer.  “He’s talking very positively,” teammate  Steve Stricker 
said of Woods, a captain’s pick who, golf-wise, hasn’t had much
to boast about this year.  Woods isn’t the only one talking these days. Seems everyone
around Celtic Manor in Wales is asking or answering questions
about one man’s fall from grace and the leader board. Some of
the juicier stuff started a while ago, a bit of gamesmanship
that  Rory McIlroy  and his European mates might at some point
regret. You know what they say about sleeping dogs. Same for
Tigers.  Woods, it’s safe to assume, is a tad peeved at McIlroy, who
after the Bridgestone Invitational, where Tiger shot a career-
worst 18-over and finished in the penultimate position, told the
BBC that he’d love to face a struggling you know who at the
Ryder Cup.  New Woods  “Unless his game rapidly improves,” the 21-year-old
McIlroy said of Woods, whose golf game has faltered since news
of his extramarital affairs became public, “I think anyone on
the European team would fancy their chances against him.”  That’s a polite way of saying that Woods isn’t what Woods
was.  You can tell that something is different this time around
simply by taking a peek at the practice green, where Woods gave
Stricker a putting tip the other day. Remember, this is the same
guy who golfer  Sean O’Hair  once cautioned that no matter how
friendly things seem on the course Woods wants to slit your
throat.  This is the closest thing that Woods will ever have to
teammates. Maybe a pat on the back or an atta boy is exactly
what the recently divorced Woods needs.  There’s a certain comfort in the collective. In  baseball ,
for instance, when a player commits an error, or doesn’t get the
bunt down, talk in the dugout immediately turns to picking him
up. Emotionally, more than anything else.  Kobe Bryant’s Perspective  Listening to the U.S. players voice support for their
embattled teammate made me reconsider the premise of a column in
June 2008, when I spent the morning following Woods at the U.S.
Open near San Diego and then drove north to Los Angeles, where
the evening was spent watching Kobe Bryant’s Lakers lose Game 4
of the National Basketball Association Finals to the Boston
Celtics.  Oh, how Bryant must be envious of Woods, who needn’t
concern himself with locker-room chemistry, fragile egos or
lesser-talented teammates.  Woods answered questions about Woods. That’s it. His knee,
his irons. Woods on Woods. No one else. League Most Valuable
Player Bryant, on the other hand, faced a litany of questions
about his teammates and their shortcomings at critical moments.  Surely, if injected with truth serum, Bryant would’ve said
he regretted not taking up an individual sport like golf or
tennis, where distractions like leadership and the cultivation
of locker-room camaraderie isn’t part of the gig.  Golf Loner  Lucky, that Woods, who is responsible for no one but
himself. No teammates to baby-sit, cajole or elevate. No one to
prod, nudge or admonish.  It’s hard to know what kind of leader Woods, the golf
loner, would make in a team sport, especially if things weren’t
going well. It took Bryant a long time to understand what it
takes to lead, or, as the late  John Wooden  liked to say, to
become the kind of player and person that others wanted to
follow.  From a golfing perspective, the world’s most dominant
golfer in five  Ryder Cup  appearances hasn’t been all that
dominant. His record in pairs is 7-12-1, and he’s 3-1-1 in
singles competition.  “I’m looking forward to getting out there and
contributing,” he said this week after a practice round in
Wales. “Hope I can get some points and hopefully we can get
this thing done.”  U.S. player  Hunter Mahan  says he can tell that Woods is
eager to play well.  “We all are,” he said.  We. A concept embraced by Bryant and, for the next three
days, anyway, available to Woods, who just might learn to relish
pats on the back and atta boys.  ( Scott Soshnick  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  