-- India to Jumpstart Asset Sales After Securing 5 Percent of Record Target
-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 2010-10-01T07:55:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/india-to-jumpstart-asset-sales-after-securing-5-percent-of-record-target.html
India plans to accelerate the pace
of state asset sales in the next six months, after raising just
5 percent of its $8.9 billion annual target, betting record
overseas buying of stocks will continue.  The government plans to sell shares in “more than one”
company each month through to March 31, Disinvestment Secretary
 Sumit Bose  said. Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index has
gained 21 percent in dollar terms this year, making it the best
performing stock benchmark among the world’s top 10 markets,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There appears to be market appetite” for the slew of
state companies expected to sell shares in the next six months,
Bose said in an interview from New Delhi yesterday.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government wants to tap
investment into Indian assets to help narrow a budget deficit
and build roads, ports and power plants. Singh’s administration
plans to sell stakes in six companies including  Coal India Ltd .
and  Steel Authority of India Ltd . after raising just 20.6
billion rupees ($462 million) selling shares in two companies
since the start of the year in April.  It will also sell shares in  Oil and Natural Gas Corp.  and
 Indian Oil Corp.  before March 2011, Bose said. Non-state
companies raised 31 billion rupees in initial share sales last
week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cutting Fees  Indian stocks attracted a record 843.6 billion rupees from
foreign funds this year, helping drive demand. India’s gross
domestic product expanded 8.8 percent last quarter from a year
earlier, the most among major economies in Asia after China.  Investment banks are cutting fees to get part of the
government’s asset sale business. The lowest fees bid for the
 Steel Authority  share sale was 0.00000000001 percent, or less
than 1 paisa, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bose said the government’s selection process was not
encouraging the low-fee bids by bankers.  “This system in no way asks for zero bids or near zero
bids, it just asks for competitive bids and that’s the way we
would like to proceed,” he said.  Kotak Mahindra Capital Co. is ranked first in managing
government share sales this year, followed by  Citigroup Inc.  and
ICICI Securities Ltd., according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ruth David  in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  