-- Manufacturing Grows at Slowest Pace in 10 Months Giving RBI Scope to Pause
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2010-10-01T06:08:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/india-s-manufacturing-expanded-in-september-at-slowest-pace-in-10-months.html
India’s manufacturing grew at the
slowest pace in 10 months in September, giving the central bank
scope to pause the most aggressive round of monetary policy
tightening in Asia.  The purchasing managers’ index fell to 55.1 from 57.2 in
August, HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said in an e-
mailed statement today. A reading above 50 indicates expansion.  The Reserve Bank of India last month increased interest
rates for the fifth time this year and said its moves have
brought the “monetary situation close to normal.” India’s
inflation may cool to 5.5 percent by March 31 from 8.5 percent
currently,  Chakravarthy Rangarajan , chairman of the Prime
Minister’s Economic Advisory Council, said yesterday.  “The Reserve Bank is approaching the end of its interest-
rate hiking cycle as inflation shows signs of moderation and
growth stabilizes,” said  Anubhuti Sahay , an economist at
Standard Chartered Plc in Mumbai. “Any further rate moves will
be driven by inflation and what happens globally.”  China’s manufacturing expanded at the fastest pace in four
months in September. In the U.S., manufacturing figures today
and next week’s September jobs report will provide further signs
about the strength of the world’s largest economy.  Stocks, Bonds  The benchmark  Sensitive Index  rose 1.1 percent to 20,292.04
at 10:55 a.m. on the Bombay Stock Exchange. Ten-year government
bond yields climbed 2 basis points to 7.87 percent in Mumbai.  “Capacity constraints and a fading fiscal stimulus explain
a large part of the pull-back,”  Frederic Neumann , co-head of
Asian economic research at HSBC, said in the India PMI report.  Consumer demand continues to hold strong in Asia’s third-
largest economy with  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. , the country’s
biggest carmaker, today reporting a 30 percent increase in sales
last month from a year earlier.  India’s merchandise exports rose 22.5 percent to $16.6
billion in August from a year earlier after a 13.2 percent gain
in July, a report from the commerce ministry showed today.
Imports gained 32.2 percent to $29.7 billion.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised India’s  economic growth 
forecast to 8.5 percent from 8.2 percent for the current
financial year and estimated inflation at 6.5 percent by March
31, more than its earlier projection of 6 percent.  “We now forecast that the Reserve Bank of India will hike
policy rates by another 75 to 100 basis points by end-June 2011,
significantly higher than market expectations of a 25 basis
point increase,” Goldman’s Mumbai-based economist  Tushar Poddar 
said in an e-mailed report today.  One gauge of the outlook for rates suggests Reserve Bank
Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  may be approaching the end of the
series of increases in India. The cost of fixing rates on money
for a year in the market for so-called interest-rate swaps has
declined 24 basis points from a 22-month high of 6.98 percent
reached in August.  Subbarao has boosted borrowing costs the most number of
times among Asian central banks this year. The bank’s reverse
repurchase rate is 5 percent and the repurchase rate is 6
percent. Malaysia is second with three rate increases.  The Reserve Bank is scheduled to announce its next monetary
policy decision on Nov. 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kartik Goyal  in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  