-- Indonesia Inflation Slowed in September, Easing Pressure on Interest Rates
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2010-10-01T06:11:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/indonesia-inflation-slowed-in-september-easing-pressure-on-interest-rates.html
Indonesia’s inflation slowed in
September for the first time in six months, easing pressure on
policy makers to raise interest rates when they meet next week.  Consumer prices  rose 5.8 percent last month from a year
earlier, the Central Bureau of Statistics said in Jakarta today.
That compares with a 6.44 percent gain in August reported
earlier. The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 17
economists was for a 5.94 percent increase.  Bank Indonesia has chosen to strengthen growth rather than
respond to higher prices, holding out as counterparts including
South Korea, India and Malaysia raised borrowing costs this year.
Policy makers have said the country’s faster inflation in recent
months was temporary, while an appreciating currency may temper
price increases.  “Easing inflation is likely to add reasons for Bank
Indonesia to keep rates unchanged” until the end of 2010,
 Enrico Tanuwidjaja , an economist at OSK-DMG Group in Singapore,
said in note after the report.  Bank Indonesia will keep its key rate at 6.5 percent on Oct.
5, according to 15 of 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
The measure is at the lowest level since it was introduced in
July 2005.  Inflation also slowed in  Thailand  last month as oil costs
eased and government subsidies helped contain price pressures,
according to a Commerce Ministry report today. South Korea’s
consumer prices increased more than projected, rising at the
fastest pace in 17 months.  Inflation Forecast  Consumer prices in Indonesia, Southeast Asia’s largest
economy, climbed 0.44 percent in September from the previous
month after rising 0.76 percent in August. The central bank
expects inflation to remain within a target of 4 percent to 6
percent this year, and the statistics bureau said today prices
may rise less than 6 percent in 2010.  “Inflationary pressures are lower now and may ease in
coming months,”  Lana Soelistianingsih , an economist at PT
Samuel Sekuritas Indonesia in Jakarta, said before the report.
“The central bank will probably be able to leave interest rates
unchanged for the rest of the year.”  Food prices rose 11 percent last month from a year earlier,
after a 13.2 percent gain in August, the statistics bureau said.  Still, Bank Indonesia Governor  Darmin Nasution  said this
week the central bank will keep a “close watch” on emerging
inflationary pressures.  “Going forward in 2011, apart from uncertainties in food
prices, inflationary pressures could also be spurred, partly, by
an increase in demand,” he said in a Sept. 29 speech.  Indonesia’s  exports  rose 30 percent in August from a year
earlier after gaining 28.9 percent in July, the statistics
office said in a separate report today. Imports rose 25.9
percent in August, the report showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Novrida Manurung at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  