-- Tough Miners Morph Into Brainy ‘Pitmen Painters’: John Simon
-- B y   J o h n   S i m o n
-- 2010-10-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/miners-morph-into-painters-in-play-by-billy-elliot-author-john-simon.html
We already have had shows and movies
about Britain’s valiant coal miners spawning an orchestra or
ballet dancers.  Now comes ”The Pitmen Painters,” in which a group of
diggers from Ashington, Northumberland, start taking art lessons
in 1934 as part of a quirky government outreach program and
achieve considerable fame as the Ashington Group.  “Billy Elliot” author  Lee Hall  based the play on a book
by William Feaver, who interviewed surviving miners. The play
takes some liberties, notably in the dialogue. Enjoyable as the
resulting drama largely is, there are some problems.  The focus is on three miners: earnest George Brown, who
represents the Worker’s Educational Association; Jimmy Floyd, a
joker; and Oliver Kilbourn, who proves the most talented. Add to
them Harry, a dentist’s assistant friend of theirs and the
nameless Young Lad, who is merely an aspiring miner.  To them comes Robert Lyon, not the university professor
they had hoped for, but at least a college art teacher. When his
attempts to teach art history fail with the men who have had
never been in a museum, he hands them brushes and palettes
instead.  We never see the actual learning process but we do,
projected on three screens, see the product of their efforts. We
also hear the spirited discussions these efforts elicit, which
are amusing enough.  Country Bumpkins  The language can suddenly switch from country bumpkin to a
level of sophistication well beyond the credible, as when Harry,
a Marxist, says one moment, “Nebody’s deing what we de”; at
the next, “This is just the start. This place’ll be an academy.
In years to come it’ll be teeming with artists in here.”  And George proclaims, “They’re not ganna leave yer
Shakespeare and Goethe just for the upper classes now -- it’s
ganna belang to us.”  The emphasis on the human comedy, racy in Act I, shifts in
Act II to the largely political, even verging on agitprop. All
along there are nice observations as the play expands to include
Susan Parks, the nude model who initially shocks the men; Helen
Sutherland, the fickle rich art patroness; and the renowned
painter Ben Nicholson, who makes a brief appearance.  There is, granted, something too neatly ironic and
tendentious when Oliver gets to criticize his teacher’s painting
from a superior, more evolved position; or when the mines are
nationalized as a sort of victory, only to turn into defeat when
 Mrs. Thatcher  abolishes them altogether.  War Intrudes  Toward the end, we hear a self-contradictory speech by Lyon
who declares, “Art isn’t enough by itself, you have to go into
the world and change it.” This despite the Young Lad’s having
enlisted and perished in World War II.  But let us not be too fussy: “The Pitmen Painters” is
droll enough and holds our interest steadily. Especially so as
enacted by a fine British cast of eight actors. Max Roberts’s
direction is unostentatiously clever, and can accomplish a good
deal by the mere rearranging of a few chairs.  At the Samuel J. Friedman Theatre, 261 W. 47th St.
Information: +1-212-239-6200;  http://www.telecharge.com  Rating:
** 1/2  ( John Simon  is the New York drama critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Simon in New York at  jis1925@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 