-- Iraqi Shiites Nominate Al-Maliki to Stay Premier in Step to End Deadlock
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   K a d h i m   A j r a s h
-- 2010-10-01T19:02:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/iraqi-shiites-nominate-al-maliki-to-stay-premier-in-step-to-end-deadlock.html
Iraqi Prime Minister  Nuri al-Maliki 
won the Shiite Muslim National Alliance’s nomination for the
premiership, beating  Adel Abdel Mahdi  and moving Iraq a step
closer to a new government after seven months of deadlock.  Alliance members nominated al-Maliki to retain the post by
consensus, lawmaker Abdel Hadi al-Hasani, a member of his State
of Law party, said today in an interview in Baghdad. Al-Maliki
had the support of cleric  Moqtada al-Sadr  and his Sadr Trend
party, al-Hasani said. Al-Sadr’s militia was defeated in clashes
with U.S. and Iraqi forces in the capital in 2008.  “We are beginning to see the kind of political
horsetrading among the major blocs that received support in the
election and we are hopeful that a government can be formed”
that will represent all power blocs, State Department spokesman
 Philip J. Crowley  told reporters in Washington today.  Talks on selecting the alliance candidate began in June,
when the Shiite parties merged to form the largest bloc in
parliament and get first crack at heading a government following
the March 7 national elections, which failed to produce a clear
winner. While today’s announcement represents progress toward
the formation of a government, the alliance still faces hurdles.  The bloc needs four deputies to gain the 163 seats needed
to form a government in the 325-member assembly. If it reaches
that number and al-Maliki is named prime minister for another
term by President  Jalal Talabani  and tasked with forming a
Cabinet, negotiations over key posts will begin.  Spike in Violence  Brigadier General Rob Baker, the top U.S. commander for
Baghdad, said the political impasse has led to a spike in
violence and pushed frustrated citizens to hold back information
on suspected militants, the Associated Press reported Sept. 29.
He said Sunni Muslim insurgents have stepped up attacks in an
attempt to discredit Shiite-led authorities.  Al-Maliki’s State of Law party garnered 89 seats in the
elections, two fewer than former Prime Minister  Ayad Allawi ’s
Iraqiyah bloc, which had Sunni Muslim and secular backing. The
Iraqi National Alliance took 70 seats and an alliance of Kurdish
parties took 43.  Allawi also claims the right to lead the new government,
having won the most seats. He has said he won’t participate in
any government headed by al-Maliki. Allawi’s support of the new
government is seen as crucial to national unity.  The National Alliance’s so-called Wise Men Committee of 14
members decided this week to hold an internal ballot to choose
between al-Maliki and Abdel Mahdi, one of two vice presidents.  Main Components  State of Law, al-Sadr’s Sadr Trend and Abdel Mahdi’s
Supreme Iraqi Islamic Council are the three main components of
the National Alliance.  Abdel Mahdi’s and al-Sadr’s parties are also part of the
similarly named Iraqi National Alliance, which opposed al-
Maliki’s decision to seek a second term. It wasn’t immediately
clear what concessions they may have won from al-Maliki in
return for their support. Al-Sharq al-Awsat newspaper cited
unidentified officials as saying al-Sadr had bowed to pressure
from neighboring Iran, which is led by Shiite clerics.  This is the second time Abdel Mahdi lost out to al-Maliki.
He was touted as a contender for the post in the previous
elections in 2005, yet failed to secure al-Sadr’s backing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Caroline Alexander  in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net ;
 Kadhim Ajrash  in Baghdad at 
 kadhimajrash@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net  