-- Isilon Systems Said to Seek Buyers for Possible Company Sale
-- B y   P e t e r   B u r r o w s   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2010-10-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/isilon-systems-said-to-seek-bidders-for-a-possible-sale-hires-qatalyst.html
Isilon Systems Inc. , the maker of
devices used to store video, audio and digital images, is
seeking bidders for a possible sale, according to two people
briefed on the matter.  The company hired  Frank Quattrone ’s Qatalyst Partners to
canvas would-be acquirers, said one of the people, who declined
to be identified because the plans haven’t been made public.  Isilon, based in Seattle, is seeking to emulate the bidding
war that surrounded rival data-storage maker 3Par Inc., both
people said. 3Par’s plans to sell itself led to an 18-day tussle
between  Hewlett Packard Co.  and Dell Inc. HP won out last month
with a price of $2.35 billion, or $33 a share, triple 3Par’s
stock price before the public bidding began.  Qatalyst served as 3Par’s financial adviser, while Wilson
Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati provided legal advice.  Sally Palmer , a
spokeswoman for Qatalyst, wasn’t immediately reachable for a
comment.  Only 1 percent of deals involving publicly traded companies
in the technology industry result in bidding contests, Drew
Guevara, head of West Coast Technology Investment Banking for
Morgan Stanley, said Sept. 30 at a Bloomberg LP Dealmakers
Summit in New York.  Isilon Chief Executive Officer  Sujal Patel  declined to
comment on whether the company is trying to shop itself.  “My focus is on building a big company,” Patel said in an
interview. “We have a huge opportunity, and we intend to go
after it.”  ‘Name That Comes Up’  Isilon has a  market value  of $1.52 billion. Its stock has
more than tripled this year on speculation it may be a takeover
target. The shares gained 83 cents to $23.11 yesterday in Nasdaq
Stock Market  trading .  “Isilon is definitely a name that comes up” in talk about
data-storage market acquisitions, said  Rajesh Ghai , an analyst
at ThinkEquity LLC in San Francisco, who recommends buying
Isilon shares.  Dell’s failed attempt to land 3Par makes it a likely suitor
for Isilon, Ghai said.  An e-mail request for comment sent to Dell after regular
business hours yesterday wasn’t immediately answered.  Isilon, which turned its first  quarterly profit  last year,
posted sales of $45.1 million in the second quarter, a 56
percent increase from a year earlier.  “You don’t have to do anything when you are growing as fast
as we are and have such a large market opportunity,” Patel said,
referring to mergers and acquisitions. “We are the No. 1
publicly owned growth story in the storage business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Burrows  in San Francisco at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net ;
 Serena Saitto  in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 