-- U.S. Economy: Manufacturing, Spending Signal `Modest' Growth
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s   a n d   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2010-10-01T20:14:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/ism-s-u-s-manufacturing-index-decreased-to-54-4-in-september-from-56-3.html
U.S. manufacturing expanded at a
slower pace, while consumer spending increased, underlining the
Federal Reserve’s forecast for a “modest” pace of economic
growth in coming months.  The Institute for Supply Management’s  factory index  dropped
to 54.4 in September from 56.3 the prior month, the Tempe,
Arizona-based group said today. Readings greater than 50 signal
growth. Consumer purchases increased 0.4 percent in August for a
second month, more than forecast by economists.  Manufacturing, which has led the recovery from recession,
is cooling as companies such as  Cisco Systems Inc.  see signs of
slower growth and limited hiring. Further gains in household
spending are likely to be restrained as unemployment lingers
near a 26-year high. New York Fed President  William Dudley  today
said more monetary easing will probably be required unless the
outlook for jobs improves.  “It’s a recovery in fits and starts,” said  David Resler ,
chief economist at Nomura Securities International Inc. in New
York. “It’s keeping the scales tilted in the direction of more
action from the Fed.”  Stocks rose after the consumer spending report bolstered
optimism in the recovery, while Treasury two-year note yields
fell to the lowest on record on bets the Fed will restart large-
scale asset purchases to spur growth.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index gained 0.4 percent to
1,146.24 at the 4 p.m. close in New York. The two-year note
yield was little changed at 0.42 percent after touching a record
low of 0.4066 percent.  Unemployment Benefits  The gain in personal spending exceeded the 0.3 percent
increase projected by the median forecast of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News. Incomes were up 0.5 percent, the biggest
advance this year, propelled by the resumption of extended and
emergency unemployment benefits.  A 0.2 percent increase in inflation-adjusted spending was
driven by a 0.8 percent rise in nondurable goods such as food
and clothing. The gain was the biggest since February. The
figures bolster the view that the extended benefits may have
helped unemployed Americans make ends meet.  After the worst recession since the 1930s, the economic
recovery that began in June 2009 has been led by manufacturing
as exports climbed, business investment improved and inventories
were replenished. The rebuilding of stockpiles has since slowed.  John Chambers , chief executive officer of San Jose,
California-based Cisco Systems, last week said economic
conditions appeared “a little bit bumpy.”  ‘More Normal’  Cisco, the world’s largest maker of networking equipment,
“saw the market returning to more normal growth rates,” he
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness With
 Margaret Brennan .” Most chief executives Cisco talks to are
projecting economic growth of 2 percent or less, he said, “and
that means they’ll probably spend appropriately and also hire
appropriately.”  At the same time, “Asia’s still going strong and Europe is
holding up remarkably well,” Chambers said. China’s
manufacturing expanded in September at the fastest pace in four
months, a separate report showed today, while growth in  European
manufacturing  slowed.  “The pace of economic recovery is likely to be modest in
the near term,” the Fed said Sept. 21 after its policy meeting.
“Business spending on equipment and software is rising, though
less rapidly than earlier in the year.”  The New York Fed’s Dudley said today that the outlook for
employment is “unacceptable” and that the central bank has
options to add stimulus without major drawbacks. The jobless
rate is projected to average at least 9 percent through 2011,
according to a Bloomberg survey last month.  Dudley Comments  “Further action is likely to be warranted unless the
economic outlook evolves in a way that makes me more confident
that we will see better outcomes for both employment and
inflation before too long,” Dudley, who serves as vice chairman
of the Fed’s policy-setting Open Market Committee, said in a
speech in New York.  Dudley’s remarks are one of the clearest signs that policy
makers will start a second round of unconventional monetary
easing as soon as the FOMC’s next meeting Nov. 2-3. Fed Chairman
Ben S. Bernanke said yesterday that the central bank has a duty
to aid the U.S. economy as the jobless rate holds near 10
percent.  President  Barack Obama  last month proposed a package of
$180 billion in business tax breaks and infrastructure spending
to help spur employment and as his approval rating suffers. The
economy is a top issue for voters in the November congressional
elections, and polls show Americans are increasingly skeptical
of Obama’s performance.  Orders, Production  The ISM’s measures of  new orders  and  production  dropped in
September to the lowest levels since June 2009. The  employment 
gauge fell to a six-month low and the index of export orders was
the weakest this year.  Other economic reports today showed that construction
spending unexpectedly climbed and a gauge of consumer sentiment
declined less than forecast.  Construction outlays rose 0.4 percent in August as an
increase in government stimulus spending for public works
overcame a drop in homebuilding, according to figures from the
Commerce Department.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final  index  of
consumer sentiment fell to 68.2 in September from 68.9 the
previous month. The gauge was projected to decline to 67,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey, and
compares with a preliminary reading of 66.6 issued last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net ;
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 