-- J&J, NIH, Hairtech, Vivendi, Hasbro, Norwegian Air: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2010-10-01T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/j-j-nih-hairtech-vivendi-hasbro-norwegian-air-intellectual-property.html
Johnson & Johnson , the maker of
Acuvue brand contact lenses, won a U.K. appeals court ruling
affirming that competitor  Novartis AG ’s European patent for
extended-wear lenses is invalid.  The judgment against Novartis and its Ciba Vision unit was
handed down yesterday at the Court of Appeal in London.
Novartis, Switzerland’s largest drugmaker, appealed after a
lower court in July 2009 ruled its patent was “insufficient.”  The lower court “was entirely right to decide the patent
was insufficient,” U.K. Court of Appeal Justice Robin Jacob
wrote in the ruling. The patent is “nothing but a hazard to
those conducting research into extended-wear contact lenses.”  Novartis, based in Basel, Switzerland, sued in May 2007
over claims that J&J’s Acuvue Oasys lenses violate the patent by
using similar chemicals. J&J, the world’s biggest health-
products company, began selling Oasys in February 2005 through
its Vision Care unit. Lawsuits over the same lenses have also
been filed in the U.S.  Novartis argued that the lower court’s judgment was “out
on a limb” because Dutch and French courts had considered the
same patent and arrived at different conclusions. A three-judge
panel at the appeals court today disagreed.  “Johnson & Johnson Vision Care is very pleased” that the
court ruled that the patent “is completely invalid” in the
U.K., spokesman Gary Esterow said in an interview.  J&J, based in New Brunswick, New Jersey, argued in the U.K.
appeal that Novartis’s patent covered too much technology.  An e-mail to Ciba Vision’s U.K. press office wasn’t
immediately returned.  NIH Grants Royalty-Free License to Provide Cheaper AIDS Drugs  The  National Institutes of Health , a unit of the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services, became the first
patent-holder to share its IP with the Medicines Patent Pool,
with the support of an international agency set up to provide
less costly drugs to treat AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria.  UNITAID , founded at the United Nations General Assembly in
2006 by Brazil, Chile, France, Norway and the U.K., is funded by
a levy on airline tickets. The agency’s Medicines Patent Pool --
will receive a license to multiple National Institutes of Health
patents covering existing drugs, products still in development
and other technologies related to HIB/AIDS.  Included in the royalty-free license are patents that are
pending or have already been granted in the U.S., Canada,
Australia, Japan, and, according to the agency’s  statement , “10
high-income member states of the European Patent Office.”  Among the aims of UNITAID are speeding up the production of
generic versions of patented HIV drugs, the development of
appropriate formulations of AIDS drugs for children, and
simplification of AIDS treatment through fixed-dose combinations
that combine several drugs into one pill.  Paris Hilton’s Hair Extension-Maker Sued for Patent Infringement  A company that makes clip-on hair extensions under a Paris
Hilton label was sued for patent infringement by a Missouri
competitor.  Celebrity Signatures International Inc., of Kansas City,
Missouri, accused  Hairtech International Inc.  of infringing
patent 7,735,495.  This patent, which was issued in June 2010, covers a
lattice-like framework to which false hair is attached. It is
“configured to not engage a portion of a user’s head
substantially forward of a crown of the user’s head,” with the
framework disguised by the user’s own hair.  Atlanta-based Hairtech has sold products since 2007 that
infringe the patent, according to the complaint filed Sept. 27
in federal court in Kansas City, Missouri. Among the infringing
products are the “ Clipin-Go by Paris Hilton”  And “Dream
Catchers.” According to the complaint.  Celebrity Signatures claims that the Hairtech products are
marked “patent pending” even though “no U.S. patent
application listing defendant as inventor or assignee has ever
been published by the USPTO.”  The Missouri Company asked the court to order Hairtech to
quit infringing the patent, and for awards of money damages,
attorney fees and litigation costs. Additionally, the company
requested an award of as much as $500 for every Hairtech product
found to be bearing a false patent marking.  Celebrity Signatures is represented by  R. Cameron Garrison 
and  A. Justin Poplin  of Kansas City, Missouri’s  Lathrop & Gage
LLP . That firm also filed Celebrity Signatures’ patent
application in February 2007.  The case is Celebrity Signatures International Inc., v.
Hairtech International Inc., 4:10-cv-00939-SWH, U.S. District
Court, Western District of Missouri (Kansas City).  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  Vivendi, Time Warner Seek to End ‘Ellen’ Music Suit  Vivendi SA’s  music labels and Time Warner Inc. asked a
court to dismiss a lawsuit the labels brought against Time
Warner, the producer of Ellen DeGeneres’s television talk show,
for allegedly playing their songs without authorization.  The adversaries filed a joint request Sept. 29 in federal
court in Los Angeles to end the copyright infringement case,
which was filed in March.  Interscope Records, Motown Record Co. and UMG Recordings
said in the suit that the “Ellen DeGeneres Show” played
hundreds of their sound recordings without obtaining permission
or paying for licenses. The songs included “Superfreak” by
Rick James and “My Humps” by the Black Eyed Peas, according to
the labels, part of Paris-based Vivendi’s Universal Music Group,
the world’s largest record company.  The producers, including New York-based  Time Warner’s 
Warner Bros. Television, said they had an “implied” license
because the labels took no action for almost six years.  Jeffrey Goldman, a lawyer for Interscope, and Aton
Arbisser, a lawyer for Time Warner, weren’t immediately
available for comment. Nor was Scott Rowe, a spokesman for
Warner Bros. Television.  U.S. District Judge Stephen Wilson on Aug. 30 denied a
request by both sides to halt the case for arbitration and said
it would proceed to trial on Nov. 30.  The case is Interscope Records v. Time Warner Inc., 10-
1662, U.S. District Court, Central District of California (Los
Angeles).  EFF Joins Winston & Strawn in Copyright Battle with Righthaven  The  Electronic Frontier Foundation , a San Francisco-based
digital rights group, has taken on representation of a
political-discussion forum in a copyright infringement suit
related to the Las Vegas Review-Journal.  Righthaven LLC of Las Vegas has sued more than 200 websites
for allegedly infringing copyrights to stories in the Las Vegas
newspaper. Righthaven claims the copyrights to the newspaper’s
stories.  One of the defendants is the Democratic Underground, which
Righthaven sued Aug. 8 in connection with a story about the
support a political candidate received from the Tea Party.  EFF, together with Chicago’s Winston & Strawn LLP and a Las
Vegas attorney, responded to the complaint Sept. 27, listing at
least 20 reasons why the site didn’t infringe, including
copyright law’s “fair use” exception, and the First Amendment
of the U.S. Constitution.  The Democratic Underground, through its lawyers, accused
the publisher of working with its “lithe friend” Righthaven to
seek “windfall recoveries” and to “exact nuisance
settlements” by challenging the fair use of an excerpt that the
publisher makes freely available on the Internet.  In its filing, the Democratic Underground also said that
the publisher and Righthaven, which purports to hold the
copyrights for the newspaper stories, have “not engaged in the
business of licensing copyright rights other than in the context
of litigation.”  The filing disputes Righthaven’s copyrights, claiming the
Stephens Inc.’s Stevens Media unit, the newspaper’s publisher,
retains some legal interest in the copyrights and that any
separation between the two of them “is a sham.” The fact that
the newspaper has a “Share & Save” feature for articles on its
website meant that there was “no objection to allowing users to
save, share, email or print, in part of in whole, the news
article at issue,” according to the Democratic Underground
filing.  The Democratic Underground asked the court for a
declaration of non-infringement, and for attorney fees and
litigation costs.  The Democratic Underground is represented by Andrew  P.
Bridges ,  J. Caleb Donaldson  and  Kathleen Lu  from  Winston &
Strawn LLP ;  Kurt Opsahl  and  Corynne McSherry  from the Electronic
Frontier Foundation, and  Chad A. Bowers  of Chad A. Bowers Ltd.
of Las Vegas.  The case is Righthaven LLC v. Democratic Underground LLC,
2:10-cv-01356-RLH-RJJ, U.S. District Court, District of Nevada
(Las Vegas).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trademark  Hasbro Seeks Additional U.S. Trademark for Transformers  Hasbro Inc. , the toymaker second in size only to  Mattel
Inc. , applied to register “Transformers One” as a trademark,
according to the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office.  The Pawtucket, Rhode Island-based toymaker’s earliest
Transformers-related trademark was registered in 2001. The
company’s  Transformers toys  represent robots that can hide by
transforming themselves into common mechanical objects, such as
trucks. A 1980s Japanese animation series is the source of the
Transformers stories.  The new application was filed September 24 and the
trademark will be used for entertainment services, according to
documents filed at patent office. The application doesn’t
mention any particular toy for which the trademark might be
used.  For more trademark news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Norwegian Air Shuttle Says SAS Appeal in Case Denied  Norwegian Air Shuttle ASA , Europe’s fourth-largest discount
carrier, said it won an appeals court ruling against  SAS AB  in a
case concerning unlawful use of the Norwegian carrier’s trade
secrets.  The Appeals Committee of Norway’s Supreme Court on Sept. 28
denied SAS’s appeal against a High Court ruling from March 16,
Fornebu-based Norwegian Air said yesterday.  Norwegian Air was awarded about 175 million kroner ($30
million) in damages and costs from SAS and SAS Scandinavian
Airlines Norge AS, the carrier said in yesterday’s
statement.“This means that the High Court judgment is final,
and that the damages and costs awarded are payable to
Norwegian,” the carrier said.  In a separate statement yesterday SAS that the decision
will have a negative effect on earnings of about 200 million
kronor ($30 million) in the third quarter.  The suit related to SAS employees’ unauthorized use of
Norwegian Air’s Amadeus booking system to spy on its rival.  IP Moves  Portugal’s Campinos Takes Top European Trademark Post  Antonio Serge de Pinho Campinos takes office today as the
president of the Office for Harmonization in the Internal
Market, the European Union’s trademark and design registry,
 according to  an agenda from the office.  Campinos  has served as director of the trademark department
of the Portuguese Industrial Property Institute, and the
president of the Directive Council of the Portuguese Institute
of Industrial Property.  He has a master’s degree in public law and a post-graduate
degree in community law from the University of Montpelier. He is
a citizen of Portugal, and is fluent in Portuguese, English,
French and Spanish.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 