-- Japan Plans First Overseas State Loan for $10 Billion U.S. Nuclear Project
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o ,   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i   a n d   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 2010-10-01T07:27:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/japan-plans-state-loan-for-10-billion-u-s-nuclear-power-plant-project.html
The  Japan Bank for International
Cooperation  may lend as much as $4 billion for a nuclear plant
project in Texas that would be the country’s first state
financing for an atomic power station abroad.  Government-run JBIC will probably offer a loan provided
that the project is guaranteed by the U.S. government,  Tadashi Maeda , head of the bank’s corporate planning department, said in
an interview yesterday in Tokyo. The loan may be as large as $4
billion, said  Toshiro Kudama , an official at  Tokyo Electric
Power Co. , which has an accord to invest in the initiative.  The $10 billion program led by  NRG Energy Co.  will use
reactors made by Toshiba Corp., the Japanese company that bought
U.S. nuclear equipment maker Westinghouse Electric Co. in 2006.
A loan deal would encourage utilities to boost investment in
nuclear projects abroad, in line with Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s
goal of exporting infrastructure technology to spur the economy.  “Japan has sought to lead the nuclear industry through
investment, training and reactor sales to Asia,” said  Daniel
Aldrich , a political science professor at Purdue University in
Indiana. “Expansion into the U.S. is only a continuation of
this trend.”  JBIC expanded overseas lending during the past three years,
moving beyond its previous focus on developing countries. In
2008, it allowed itself to finance nuclear-plant initiatives in
industrialized nations. The bank is prepared to lend funds for a
high-speed rail project in California that Japan is bidding for,
then-Transport Minister  Seiji Maehara  said last month.  Tokyo Electric  Tokyo Electric is holding talks with JBIC on a loan for the
Texas project, aiming to sign a preliminary financing agreement
in 2012, Kudama, executive general manager of the utility’s
international affairs department, said in an interview yesterday.  Nuclear Innovation North America LLC, a joint venture
between Princeton, New Jersey-based NRG Energy and Tokyo-based
Toshiba, plans to add two 1,350 megawatt reactors in Texas at a
cost of $10 billion or less, with commercial operations slated
to begin in 2016 and 2017. Nuclear Innovation Chief Executive
Officer  Steve Winn  has said the partners applied for about $7
billion in U.S. federal loan guarantees and as much as $4
billion of Japanese aid.  The project “has significance for Japan,” said Maeda, 52,
who is an adviser to Kan’s Cabinet. “Jordan and other Middle
Eastern nations, Turkey, Vietnam, Indonesia and Malaysia will be
the growing markets for nuclear plants, in addition to the U.S.,
which is a huge and well-developed market.”  Help From Banks  Maeda said JBIC may team up with commercial lenders to
offer a loan covering about half the Texas project cost, without
elaborating. The venture’s cost estimate is preliminary, he said.  NRG Energy Chief Executive Officer  David Crane  said on Aug.
2 that the partners have opened formal discussions with Japanese
government financial institutions to finance the project.  Tokyo Electric , the operator of the world’s biggest nuclear
power station, in May clinched a $125 million deal to buy a 9.2
percent stake in the project from Nuclear Innovation. The
agreement will close after U.S. loan guarantees are announced,
NRG Energy said in May. The Japanese utility also agreed to pay
$30 million for an option to double its stake.  A total of  149 new reactors  are planned worldwide by 2030,
with nine of them to be built in the U.S., where a further 22
are proposed as of Aug. 1, according to data compiled by the
World Nuclear Association. The U.S., which hasn’t licensed any
new reactors since the 1979 accident at Three Mile Island in
Pennsylvania, is trying to revive nuclear-power construction to
meet power demand without increasing greenhouse-gas emissions.  Nuclear Renaissance  “Despite claims about a nuclear renaissance, the overall
picture of the U.S. nuclear industry is mixed,” said Aldrich of
Purdue University. The Obama administration is offering
financial incentives to adopt nuclear power as an alternative to
coal, while at the same time stopping funding for a planned
national repository for nuclear waste in Nevada, he said.  Under the  Energy Policy Act of 2005 , the federal government
guarantees loans in exchange for a fee paid by the borrower once
the reactor operation is profitable. The government would repay
the banks if the borrower defaults.  “This is going to be a joint U.S.-Japan financing
program,” said Kudama of Tokyo Electric. “We are strongly
hoping the U.S. government grants a guarantee as soon as
possible.”  Japan is facing increasing competition for energy and
infrastructure projects. It lost to South Korea last December on
a $20 billion atomic plant contract with the United Arab
Emirates, and Russia was selected this year to build the first
of as many as 13 nuclear power plants planned in Vietnam by 2030.  “Japan can’t be a big fish in a small pond,” Maeda said.
“The country needs to break out of the pond by globalizing and
standardizing its technologies.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shigeru Sato  in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
 Tsuyoshi Inajima  in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
 Takako Taniguchi  in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 