-- Japan's Nikkei Rises; Developers Gain, Shipping Lines Drop on Cargo Rates
-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a
-- 2010-10-01T08:55:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/japanese-stocks-gain-as-u-s-economic-data-boosts-confidence-canon-rises.html
Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average 
climbed, led by property developers as housing starts rose for a
third month. Shipping lines declined after an index of cargo
rates dropped.  Mitsui Fudosan Co. and Mitsubishi Estate Co., Japan’s two
biggest real estate companies, both advanced more than 3 percent
after government data showed Japanese housing starts jumped 20.5
percent in August. Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha Ltd., Japan’s third-
biggest line, led shipping lines lower. Sumitomo Chemical Co.
slid 2.4 percent after reporting to the Tokyo Stock Exchange
that it will book a one-time charge.  The  Nikkei 225  rose 0.4 percent to 9,404.23 at the close in
Tokyo. The broader Topix increased less than 0.1 percent to
829.97, with almost twice as many shares declining as advancing.
The Topix swung between gains and losses more than 30 times
today. For the week, the Nikkei 225 lost 0.7 percent, while the
Topix dropped 1 percent. Both fell for a second week.  “There are not enough factors for investors to take new
positions today,” said  Hisakazu Amano , who helps oversee about
$29 billion at Tokyo-based T&D Asset Management Co. “Investors
have no incentives to buy or sell shares.”  The Topix has retreated 16.9 percent from its high this
year on April 15 as Europe’s debt crisis, Chinese steps to curb
property-price inflation and concern about the pace of the U.S.
economic rebound hurt confidence in a global recovery. Stocks in
the index trade at 14.9 times estimated earnings on average,
compared with 13.7 times for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and
11.9 times for the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index .  Developers Gain  Mitsui Fudosan jumped 3.7 percent to 1,460 yen and
Mitsubishi Estate rallied 3.2 percent to 1,402 yen. Real estate
companies had the biggest advance and were the biggest
contributors to the Topix among its 33 industry group.  Nomura Holdings Inc. advised investors to buy housing-
related stocks. “We expect a recovery of housing demand to
continue,” the brokerage wrote in a Japanese report dated Sept.
30, after the government report. The land ministry announced the
housing starts one hour before the market closed yesterday.  Kawasaki Kisen sank 3.2 percent to 304 yen, the lowest
since February.  Nippon Yusen K.K. , Japan’s largest shipping line
by sales, and Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd., the operator of the
world’s largest merchant fleet, lost at least 1.5 percent.
Shipping lines were the biggest decliners among Topix groups.  The  Baltic Dry Index  of shipping rates for commodities
slipped 0.9 percent yesterday, falling for a second day.  Sumitomo Chemical  Sumitomo Chemical tumbled 5.2 percent to 347 yen, the most
since June 2009. The chemical maker will book a one-time charge
of 28.7 billion yen ($344 million) in the second quarter after
the value of its holdings in affiliates declined, it said in a
statement yesterday.  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. and Resona Holdings Inc. both
retreated 2.5 percent after Morgan Stanley MUFG lowered its
equity ratings on the lenders to “underweight” from “equal-
weight,” expecting “the stocks to underperform the sector.”  “The fundamental business structure of Japanese banks is
shaky,” said  Kenichi Hirano , general manager and strategist at
Tachibana Securities Co. “Deflation is curbing the value of
their assets and the price of land. Their assets will keep
shrinking.”  The S&P 500 fell 0.3 percent yesterday in New York,
trimming its biggest September gain since 1939, as investors
sold some of the month’s best-performing shares amid speculation
that improving economic data will reduce the need for the
Federal Reserve to stimulate growth.  U.S. Data  U.S. stocks had risen earlier in the day, after government
data showed the nation’s economy grew at a 1.7 percent annual
rate in the second quarter, faster than the 1.6 percent
previously estimated. Initial jobless claims decreased to
453,000 in the week ended Sept. 25, less than the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The Institute
for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said its  business barometer 
climbed to 60.4 in September, exceeding the highest estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “The U.S. data eased concern about a double dip in the
economy, and that benefits stock markets,” said  Juichi Wako , a
senior strategist at Tokyo-based Nomura Holdings Inc.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Norie Kuboyama  in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net . 