-- JP Morgan Says More Cushing Drawdown Likely on Midwest Refinery Refill
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2010-10-01T14:22:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/jp-morgan-says-more-cushing-drawdown-on-midwest-refinery-refill.html
Midwest refiners replenishing
inventories after the Sept. 27 restart of  Enbridge Energy
Partners LP’s  Line 6B may extend an eight-week decline in
Cushing, Oklahoma, stockpiles, according to JPMorgan analysts.  The pipeline was shut after it ruptured July 26, curtailing
heavy crude shipments to refineries in Ohio, Pennsylvania, and
Ontario. As repairs continue, the link is transporting about
245,000 barrels a day, compared with its capacity of 283,000
barrels, Terri Larson, an Enbridge spokeswoman, said in an e-
mail yesterday.  “In the very short term, the restart of Enbridge Line 6B
could accentuate the drawdown trend in Cushing as flows are
directed to the refineries affected by the line outage,”
Lawrence Eagles, head of commodities research at JPMorgan Chase
& Co., said in a note to clients.  Inventories at Cushing, Oklahoma, where the New York
Mercantile Exchange crude futures contract is delivered, have
declined for eight consecutive weeks to 34.3 million barrels
last week, from 37.8 million July 30, according to the Energy
Department.  “Despite refinery maintenance picking up, it is going to
be harder for inventories to reach capacity before restarts
begin in earnest in November,” the analysts wrote.  Refiners conduct overhauls and work on equipment following
the summer driving season when demand traditionally peaks.  Oil for November delivery rose 90 cents, or 1.1 percent, to
$80.87 a barrel at 10:07 a.m. on the Nymex. The discount of
November futures versus the December contract narrowed 8 cents
to 90 cents a barrel. The gap has narrowed from $1.75 on Sept.
17. The discount, known as contango, encourages traders to buy
oil for nearby delivery and store it to sell at a later date.  “Spreads already reflect a much higher level of inventory
than is currently in place, but reaching 37 million barrels by
the end of October will be a tough ask,” analysts wrote.  Line 6B is a 30-inch pipeline that carries heavy crude oil
from Griffith, Indiana, to Sarnia, Ontario.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Burkhardt  in New York at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 