-- Kan Says Will Sell Yen If Needed, Urges BOJ to Fight Deflation
-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2010-10-01T05:03:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/kan-says-government-will-sell-yen-if-needed-urges-boj-to-fight-deflation.html
Japan’s Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said
he is prepared to resume selling the country’s currency to
prevent it from strengthening and called on the central bank to
do more to bolster an economy threatened by deflation.  “We will continue to take decisive measures as needed” on
the yen, Kan said today in a policy speech in parliament that
also touched on faltering ties with China. “We expect the Bank
of Japan to closely coordinate with the government and take
further policy measures needed to beat deflation,” he said.  The speech came a day after a report showed Japan last
month spent $25 billion intervening in the foreign exchange
market to combat the yen’s climb to a 15-year high against the
dollar. Companies such as  Nintendo Co.  have cut profit forecasts
as the stronger currency erodes overseas revenue.  Kan said he will reach out to opposition parties to help
pass a new economic spending plan to address the impact of the
yen on an export-led recovery. The stimulus, which may be as
much as 4.6 trillion yen ($55 billion), would be in addition to
a 915 billion yen package he unveiled last month.  Passage of the package is the administration’s “top
priority,” he said, adding that new spending must take into
account reining in the world’s largest public  debt . Kan has
pledged not to exceed this fiscal year’s record sales of 44
trillion yen in government bonds.  ‘Unsustainable’  “If we leave the fiscal situation untouched, it will
become unsustainable,” Kan said, reiterating his goals to
balance the budget by 2020. He also called for intra-party talks
on whether the national five percent sales tax should be raised,
an issue that contributed to his ruling  Democratic Party of
Japan ’s loss in July elections for the Diet’s upper house.  Kan also expressed concern at China’s increasing military
presence in Asia. Relations between the region’s two biggest
economies have worsened after a Chinese fishing boat collided
with two Japanese Coast Guard vessels, re-igniting a dispute
over uninhabited islands in the East China Sea that threatens
bilateral trade. The arrest and subsequent release of the
trawler’s captain failed to assuage the Chinese government.  “China’s rise in recent years is remarkable, but we have
concerns about its military buildup that’s lacking transparency
and increasing ocean activities from the Indian Ocean to the
East China Sea,” said Kan, adding that Japan handled the
collision case in accordance with the law. “We expect China to
play an appropriate role as a responsible member of the
international community with its words and actions,” he said.  Territorial Claims  Kan reiterated that the islands are Japan’s territory
historically and based on international law. Sovereignty over
the area would give the holder rights to undersea gas and oil
reserves.  China yesterday released three of four Japanese employees
of a construction firm, Fujita Corp., after arresting them for
allegedly videotaping military targets. After the collision,
China cut off ministerial talks and disrupted exports of rare
earth metals. China yesterday issued a travel advisory for Japan
after Chinese tourists on a bus were harassed.  Japan sold 2.12 trillion yen from Aug. 28 through Sept. 28
in the first currency intervention since 2004, the Ministry of
Finance said yesterday. The yen was trading at 83.43 per dollar
at 1:55 p.m. in Tokyo, less than one percent weaker than the 15-
year high of 82.88 on Sept. 15 right before Japan intervened.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sachiko Sakamaki  in Tokyo at 
 Ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net ;
 Takashi Hirokawa  in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  