-- Kenya Jails 11 Somalis for Piracy; Daily Nation Says Prosecutions to End
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2010-10-01T09:57:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/kenya-jails-11-somalis-for-piracy-daily-nation-says-prosecutions-to-end.html
A Kenyan judge sentenced 11 Somali
men to five years in prison for attacking a cargo ship, the
European Union’s naval operation said.  The Sept. 29 sentencing was followed by a report yesterday
in the Daily Nation that Kenya has ended agreements with Western
nations and China to prosecute piracy suspects.  The convictions bring to 25 the number of Somalis found
guilty of piracy and handed five-year jail terms in Kenya since
last month in three separate cases,  EU Navfor , as the mission in
the region is known, said late yesterday in an e-mailed
 statement . The 11 men in court this week tried to hijack the
Liberian-flagged cargo ship Safmarine Asia in 2009 and were
foiled by the French Navy, EU Navfor said.  The East African nation signed agreements starting last
year with the EU, U.S., U.K., Denmark, Canada and China to hold
and try suspected Somali pirates captured by international
navies, in exchange for support for the Kenyan justice system.  With the expiration of the accords yesterday, Kenya said it
was ending its cooperation in prosecuting pirates, the Nairobi-
based Daily Nation reported. The agreements posed “very serious
security challenges,” the newspaper cited Adan Kenyan, chairman
of the Parliamentary Committee on Defence and Foreign Relations,
as saying. “It’s not in the interest of Kenyans to try Somali
pirates here,” he said.  Kenyan politicians also have accused the nations involved
in the accords of failing to fulfill pledges to provide money,
judicial and technical support to help Kenya prosecute and
imprison piracy defendants, the newspaper reported.  To date, foreign navies patrolling off Africa’s eastern
coast and in the Gulf of Aden as part of the EU force have
transferred 92 piracy suspects to Kenya for prosecution,
according to the EU Navfor statement.  Kenya borders Somalia, which hasn’t had a functioning
central administration since the ouster of former dictator
 Mohamed Siad Barre  in 1991, allowing piracy to flourish in the
absence of effective law enforcement and a judicial system.  Pirate attacks around  Somalia  rose to a record in 2009,
prompting international forces to boost patrols of the region.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 