-- Korean Won Set for 5th Weekly Gain as Inflation Fans Rate-Rise Speculation
-- B y   F r a n c e s   Y o o n
-- 2010-10-01T03:07:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/korean-won-set-for-5th-weekly-gain-as-inflation-fans-rate-rise-speculation.html
South Korea’s won headed for a fifth
weekly gain, the longest winning streak since April, as the
fastest inflation in 17 months stoked speculation policy makers
will raise borrowing costs this month.  The won rallied in the five days by the most since July
after government data today showed  consumer prices  rose 3.6
percent from a year earlier in September, more than the 2.9
percent forecast in a Bloomberg survey of economists. The
central bank, which aims to keep inflation between 2 percent and
4 percent through 2012, left its benchmark interest  rate  at 2.25
percent at the last two monthly reviews following a quarter-
percentage point increase in July. Bonds climbed after the
government announced fewer debt sales for October than the
previous few months.  “Faster inflation builds the case for interest rates to
rise, prompting the won to strengthen,” said  Yun Se Min , a
Seoul-based currency trader for Busan Bank. “And right now the
market consensus is for a rate hike next month, which is why we
expect to see the currency keep strengthening toward year-end.”  The won advanced 0.7 percent today to 1,131.95 per dollar
as of 12 p.m. in Seoul, taking this week’s advance to 2.1
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It earlier
touched 1,130.90, the highest level since May, and last month
jumped 5.1 percent.  The  Kospi  stock index was headed for its best close in more
than two years as overseas investors  bought  more Korean shares
than they sold for a 13th day. They pumped $3.8 billion into the
local market in September, taking net purchases for the year to
$10.9 billion.  Exports, China  Trade figures released today by the government show
 overseas sales  climbed 17.2 percent last month, more than the
15.7 percent increase forecast in a Bloomberg survey of
economists. Manufacturing in China, the biggest buyer of Korean
exports, accelerated in September at a faster pace than was
predicted in a separate Bloomberg survey, data today showed.  “This is positive news for the Korean won and the
economy,” said  Seo Jeong Hun , chief economist at Korea Exchange
Bank in Seoul. “China’s recovery affects South Korea because
our economy is so dependent on them. The news also raises
expectations for a global recovery and boosts demand for risky
assets.”  South Korea’s trade surplus may exceed $35 billion this
year, Kim Kyung Sik, deputy minister for trade and investment
policy, told reporters today. A strong won will have limited
impact on the nation’s exports, and Japan’s yen and China’s yuan
are also appreciating, Kim said.  Bonds Rise  South Korea’s three-year government bonds advanced, as they
have on all but one of the last five days. The yield on the 3.75
percent debt due June 2013 slid six basis points to 3.28 percent,
the lowest level since the notes were issued in June, according
to Korea Stock Exchange. For the week, it was down 16 basis
points. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The finance ministry said yesterday it plans to sell as
much as 3.5 trillion won ($3.1 billion) of bonds in October,
less than the 5.1 trillion won sold in each of the last two
months. It also plans to buy back 1.5 trillion won of treasuries
on Oct. 13 and a similar amount on Oct. 27.  “There are concerns that we will see a very tight supply
of government bonds,” said  Yum Sang Hoon , a fixed-income
analyst at SK Securities Co. in Seoul. “This is going to
strengthen bond prices.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Frances Yoon  in Seoul at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 