-- NASA Seeks Earth-Bound Help in Licensing Space-Age Technology
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2010-10-01T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/nasa-seeks-earth-bound-help-in-licensing-space-age-intellectual-property.html
NASA, the space-exploration program
that put a man on the moon and a rover on Mars, is searching for
help in putting more of its inventions to work on Earth.  The U.S. agency is seeking to hire a company that would put
a dollar value on the patents and more aggressively market them
to commercial businesses, said  Doug Comstock , director of NASA’s
 Innovative Partnerships Program  in Washington. The initiative
would also pool more patents from the licensing programs of each
of the 10 NASA centers, which collectively make about $2 million
to $4 million a year in royalties.  “We’re trying to identify ways we can add more tools to
get the NASA intellectual property out into the public,”
Comstock said in a Sept. 24 interview. “The object here isn’t
to make a lot of money. The real goal is to get more technology
out.”  NASA’s success at licensing in the past has included
technology for  Medtronic Inc.  pacemakers and  Plantronics Inc. 
headsets. Portable gardens, invisible dental braces, freeze-
dried food, shock-absorbent foams in helmets and an airplane de-
icing system are also among products using NASA inventions,
according to the agency’s  website .  The emphasis to do more stems from President Barack Obama’s
goal of job and  productivity  growth through innovation, Comstock
said. NASA will push technology that may be applied to company
efforts in sustainability, pollution control, health, factory
productivity, scientific instruments and aeronautics, he said.  “We want to create new products and services that can
contribute to economic growth,” he said. “We want to get as
much benefit to the taxpayers as we can, and given the economic
climate we’re in, it makes it that much more important.”  ‘No-Cost Contract’  Patent royalties were a fraction of 1 percentage point of
NASA’s $18.7 billion  budget  for the year ended Sept. 30. The
House of Representatives on Sept. 29 approved a $58.4 billion
bill that boosts funding for the next three fiscal years.  The  National Aeronautics and Space Administration  began
 advertising  last month to companies to aid in fashioning a “no-
cost contract” to help license more of the agency’s patents. A
contractor could bundle the know-how from the different centers
and expand the types of companies that look at NASA research for
ideas on new products in return for a share of royalties,
Comstock said.  NASA will limit deals with foreign companies to those shown
to be in the best interest of the U.S., and it will try to keep
companies from licensing patents to fend off competition.  “Some people buy patents just to shut down the
technology” by a rival, Comstock said. “We license only where
we think the technology is going to be put to work. There has to
be a path to do that.”  Brain-Scan Images  The agency held an auction two years ago and was able to
license an  algorithm  discovered by NASA’s Goddard Space Flight
Center that’s now used to improve brain-scan images.  U.S. agencies regularly license the fruits of their
research to the public, and some have even sued companies using
inventions without paying.  Because of government requirements, it may take a year
before an individual or company starts work under the new
initiative. Agencies are watching to see if NASA is successful
in expanding its licensing program, Comstock said.  It’s typical to see businesses clustered around government
agencies that have been started by using government-developed
know-how, said Bill Elkington, who manages intellectual property
for cockpit-instrument maker  Rockwell Collins Inc.   “You’ll find a lot of small companies, high quality jobs,
high paying jobs,” said Elkington, whose company has worked to
license government technology. “These organizations take very
seriously their role in economic development in their region and
their states, and do a very good job at it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susan Decker  in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 