-- New Jersey Pays for Negative Outlook as Yield Widens on $669 Million Sale
-- B y   D u n s t a n   M c N i c h o l   a n d   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l
-- 2010-10-01T04:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/new-jersey-pays-for-negative-outlook-as-yield-widens-on-669-million-sale.html
New Jersey  issued $669 million in
general-obligation refunding bonds at a higher yield above
top-rated debt than on a comparable sale in December, a week
after Moody’s Investors Service lowered its rating outlook.  The increased yield difference also came after bank analyst
 Meredith Whitney  ranked it among the worst state credits. The
third most-indebted U.S. state yesterday sold $133 million of
bonds maturing in 2020 priced to yield 2.94 percent, 0.3
percentage points above the Municipal Market Advisers AAA rated
 10-year index . In December, its 10-year maturities yielded 0.01
percentage point below the 10-year index.  Fortune reported this week that Whitney, of Meredith
Whitney Advisory Group LLC, ranked New Jersey along with
Illinois and Ohio as having the second-worst financial position
among U.S. states. The study cited unfunded pension obligations
and limited tax-raising options as issues.  “My read is they had to come at a significant concession
to the market, between their negative outlook and the pension
fund black mark,” said  Alan Schankel , managing director of
Philadelphia-based Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, which didn’t
participate in the sale. “I think New Jersey is paying the
price in the market.”  The refinancing of $679 million in outstanding general
obligations and a restructuring of payment schedules cuts debt-
service costs by $282 million in the fiscal year that ends June
30, 2011, according to the Office of Public Finance.  The true interest cost for the bonds, which had an average
maturity of 6.5 years, was 2.55 percent, according to the state
Treasury Department.  ‘Very Good Rate’  “It wasn’t the most favorable market we waded into,”
 James Petrino , director of the Office of Public Finance, said in
an interview after the sale. “The bottom line is the rates are
very low; we still captured a very good rate.”  The average AAA rated 10-year bond yielded 2.64 percent
yesterday, down from 3.07 percent on June 30, according to
 Municipal Market Advisors .  New Jersey, with an Aa2 rating from Moody’s, had to
discount its price, resulting in higher yields, on the longer-
term bonds to sell them,  Gary Gildersleeve  of New York-based
Evercore Wealth Management said after reviewing the deal’s
pricing.  “It’s cheap relative to other states,” he said. “But
Illinois and  California  could only hope to be there.”  States including New Jersey, California and  Illinois  are
facing criticism for persistent budget deficits and underfunding
for retirement plans and public-worker health benefits that
exceed a combined $1 trillion, according to the Pew Center on
the States.  Credit Default Swaps  New Jersey credit default swaps, the price to insure
$10,000 worth of New Jersey bonds against non-payment, cost $210
yesterday, the fourth-highest among states, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. California and Illinois were most
expensive, at $260, and Michigan was third at $237, according to
the Bloomberg data.  New Jersey last sold comparable-maturity general
obligations Dec. 8, priced to yield 2.98 percent, 0.01
percentage point less than the MMA 10-year index.  Tax-exempt bonds posted their best quarterly performance
since September 2009, returning about 3.7 percent, according to
the BofA Merrill Lynch Municipal Master Index, which tracks
total return on tax-exempt bonds. The securities lost 0.06
percent for September, the weakest month since March.  Following are descriptions of pending sales of municipal
debt in the U.S.:  NEW YORK STATE DORMITORY AUTHORITY, the largest issuer of
municipal debt in 2009 after California, plans to sell about
$1.15 billion in tax-exempts and taxable Build Americas as early
as this week. The personal-income tax revenue bonds, which carry
a top rating from Standard & Poor’s, will be used to fund
projects for the State University of New York and City
University of New York, in addition to grants for educational
facilities. M.R. Beale & Company will lead the marketing. (Added
Sept. 30)  CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF WATER RESOURCES will sell $1.9
billion in tax-exempt revenue bonds as soon as next week in its
biggest issue since May 6, when it sold $3 billion in comparable
securities for refinancing. The notes, backed by revenue from
consumer electricity bills, will refund debt sold to buy
electricity for cash-strapped utilities during California’s
power crisis a decade ago. A portion of the sale will also end
interest-rate swaps agreements, according to a Sept. 24 Fitch
Ratings report. The securities are rated Aa2 by Moody’s and AA
by Fitch, both third-highest, one level above S&P’s AA- rating.
Underwriters led by Bank of America Merrill Lynch will market
the bonds. (Added Oct. 1)  NEW YORK CITY, the most-populous U.S. city, is borrowing
$1.3 billion next week. The city will offer $800 million of
taxable debt, including $650 million of Build America Bonds,
earmarked for capital projects. The remaining $150 million in
traditional taxables will be sold competitively on Oct. 7. New
York also is offering $500 million in tax-exempt securities to
refinance existing debt and convert $90 million in outstanding
variable-rate demand notes to fixed-rate bonds. Bank of America
Merrill Lynch will lead underwriters marketing the securities,
which carry AA, the third-highest ranking from Fitch and S&P,
and Aa3, one level lower by Moody’s. (Added Oct. 1)  METROPOLITAN PIER & EXHIBITION AUTHORITY , a municipal
corporation created by the Illinois General Assembly that owns
and manages Chicago’s McCormick Place convention facility and
Navy Pier, plans to sell $940 million in tax-exempt revenue
bonds as early as next week. The bonds, secured by the agency’s
tax revenue, will refinance $900 million of existing debt and
fund construction and renovation. (Added Oct. 1)  GEORGIA , which sold part of its loan fund to help balance
its 2011 budget, plans to sell about $975 million in taxable and
tax-exempt bonds through competitive sales on Oct. 5, to fund
projects at more than a dozen state agencies and refinance $321
million of prior issues. The state, which has $8.3 billion in
general obligations outstanding, carries top credit scores from
the three major ratings companies. (Added Oct. 1)  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dunstan McNichol  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 dmcnichol@bloomberg.net ;
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 