-- Nickel Will Probably Slip Next Year as Supply Swells, Merrill Lynch Says
-- B y   A n n a   S t a b l u m
-- 2010-10-01T07:45:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/nickel-will-slip-next-year-as-supply-rises-merrill-lynch-says.html
Nickel prices will likely slip next
year as increased production brings supply and demand into
balance, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  Immediate-delivery nickel probably will average $20,875 a
metric ton next year, London-based analyst  Michael Widmer  said
by phone yesterday. That implies a 1.5 percent drop from the
average so far this year of about $21,202. Widmer was the most
accurate of 17 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News in estimating
the metal’s price in the third quarter.  Output is set to climb after a strike ended at Vale SA’s
Sudbury operations in Canada and the company began production at
its Goro mine in New Caledonia, Widmer said. He expects demand
growth to weaken in 2011 after a 10 percent gain this year as
the world economy recovers from the worst recession since World
War II.  “There’s more supply gradually pushing into the market,”
Widmer said. “The market may not be extremely oversupplied, but
the deficit is unlikely to be as big going forward.”  Nickel supply fell 51,000 tons short of demand in this
year’s first seven months, more than the year-earlier deficit of
7,500 tons, the World Bureau of Metal Statistics said on Sept.
15. The metal for three-month delivery has jumped 29 percent
this year on the London Metal Exchange, second only to tin.  Stockpile Orders  Demand for nickel will outpace supply by 62,000 tons this
year before the balance evens in 2011, according to Widmer.
 Inventories  of nickel tracked by the LME have slid 22 percent
this year to 122,556 tons. Still, orders to draw metal from
stockpiles, or  canceled warrants , have plunged 54 percent from
this year’s peak in June.  “The picture is less bullish now than what we saw in the
first half,” the analyst said. Demand growth will slow to 5
percent next year, he predicted.  The U.S. warehouse premium for nickel, added to the price
of immediate-delivery, plating-grade metal, has dropped to an
average of $1.10 a pound from a record $1.55 in August, Merrill
Lynch data shows. It climbed from about 83 cents in January as
supply tightened because of the Vale strike before dropping as
the labor action ended, according to Widmer.  “The premium has come off in the United States,” he said.
“The decline came about because of Vale.”  The Sudbury dispute ended in July after a year, making it
the longest strike in Rio de Janeiro-based Vale’s 67-year
history. The company is the world’s fourth-biggest nickel
producer and ranks first in iron ore.  The strike and another at Vale’s Voisey’s Bay operations in
Canada created a 70,000-ton shortfall, accounting for about half
of this year’s expected nickel output from those units, Widmer
said. Production probably will reach full capacity at around
130,000 tons in 2011’s first quarter, accounting for about 9
percent of the world market, he said.  Widmer predicted that immediate-delivery nickel would
average $21,250 a ton in the third quarter. It averaged about
$21,202 in the period, almost the same as the year-to-date
average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anna Stablum  in London at 
 astablum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 