-- Nigerian Explosions Kill at Least Eight People in the Capital, Police Say
-- B y   D u l u e   M b a c h u   a n d   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2010-10-01T15:19:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/nigerian-police-say-explosion-hits-capital-amid-independence-celebrations.html
Nigeria’s main rebel group, the
Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta, said it was
responsible for two blasts in the capital, Abuja, today in which
at least eight people died.  “MEND is claiming responsibility,”  Jomo Gbomo , a
spokesman for the group, said in an e-mailed response to
questions today. The militants “regret any loss of life, which
could have been prevented if the authorities had not ignored our
warning and evacuated the area when they had ample time to do
so,” he said.  The explosions also injured 18 people near the venue where
the country’s 50th independence anniversary is being celebrated,
Police Affairs Minister  Maina Adamu Waziri  told reporters at the
scene. They were the first attacks on Nigeria’s administrative
capital by MEND, which has previously centered its campaign on
the oil-rich Niger River delta.  Attacks by MEND and other armed groups cut more than 28
percent of the country’s oil output between 2006 and 2009,
according to Bloomberg data. While the attacks reduced after
thousands of fighters accepted a government amnesty last year,
MEND refused to disarm, saying its demands were not met.  Nigeria is Africa’s biggest oil producer and the fifth-
biggest source of U.S. oil imports. Its low-sulfur sweet crude
is favored by many U.S. refiners.  ‘Low, Dirty and Wicked’  Today’s attack represented a “low, dirty and wicked act of
desperation by criminals and murderers,” said Ima Niboro, a
spokesman for President  Goodluck Jonathan . Those responsible
“will pay dearly for this heinous crime,” he said in an e-
mailed statement.  MEND wants states in the delta region to keep all revenue
earned from crude sales and pay only taxes to the federal
government. The government in Abuja currently takes 87 percent
of the revenue and producing states receive 13 percent.  Earlier, MEND said it had planted bombs around the venue
and urged people attending the celebrations to evacuate.  “There is nothing worth celebrating after 50 years of
failure,” MEND said in an e-mailed statement today. “For 50
years, the people of the Niger Delta have had their land and
resources stolen from them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dulue Mbachu in Abuja at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net .
 Elisha Bala -Gbogbo in Abuja via Accra at
   ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 