-- TNK-BP Said to Bid for BP Vietnam, Venezuela Assets as Soon as Next Week
-- B y   S t e l i o s   O r p h a n i d e s   a n d   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2010-10-01T14:43:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/tnk-bp-said-to-bid-for-bp-vietnam-venezuela-assets-as-soon-as-next-week.html
TNK-BP  will make an offer to buy BP
Plc’s stake in an offshore natural-gas project in Vietnam and
three assets in Venezuela as early as next week, said a person
close to the Russian oil producer’s board.  TNK-BP, owned 50-50 by BP and a group of Russian
billionaires, received board approval today to bid for the Nam
Con Son gas block, pipeline and facilities in Vietnam and oil
assets in Venezuela, the person said, declining to be identified
before the offers are made.  The board didn’t approve proposals for assets in other
countries, the person said. BP’s directors on the board recused
themselves from the vote, the person said.  TNK-BP board directors BP’s former Chief Executive Officer
 Tony Hayward , former German Chancellor  Gerhard Schroeder  and
former NATO Secretary-General  George Robertson  declined to
comment.  BP , Europe’s largest oil producer by volume, plans to sell
$30 billion of assets in 18 months to cover costs linked to the
Gulf of Mexico oil spill, the worst in U.S. history. In
Venezuela, BP has stakes in the Petroperija and Boqueron oil
fields and the Petromonagas heavy oil-upgrading project, which
produces 110,000 barrels of oil a day, according to BP’s
website. Petroperija and Boqueron produce a combined 19,500
barrels a day, according to PDVSA’s website.  Mikhail Fridman , executive chairman and one of the Russian
shareholders in TNK-BP, said in a Sept. 15 interview that the
venture is ready to buy the assets, as well as those BP is
selling in other countries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stelios Orphanides  through the Athens office at
   sorphanides@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net 
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  