-- Nomura Asset Fund Attracts 5.5 Percent of Limit Amid China-Japan Tensions
-- B y   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o   a n d   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2010-10-01T08:17:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/nomura-asset-fund-attracts-5-5-percent-of-limit-amid-china-japan-tensions.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. , Japan’s largest
brokerage, attracted just 5.5 percent of a maximum amount of
investment set for a mutual fund focusing on companies that
profit from Chinese tourism.  The fund, which began operations yesterday, drew about 4.4
billion yen ($52.7 million) from investors, according to an e-
mail from  Yuka Sasaki , the assistant manager of Nomura Asset
Management Co.’s corporate planning department. Nomura Asset had
set an 80-billion-yen limit, a  prospectus  for the closed fund
said. The company had marketed the product between Sept. 21 and
Sept. 29.  While the fund follows a relaxation on July 1 of Japanese
rules for Chinese tourist visas, its start came amid soured
relations between the countries. Diplomatic tensions have arisen
over the detention of a Chinese fishing boat captain whose
vessel collided with two Japanese Coast Guard ships on Sept. 7
near a chain of islands claimed by both countries.  “The timing was not good, so the result was regrettable,”
for the new fund, said  Kazuhito Suzuki , a strategist in Tokyo at
Shinkin Asset Management Co., which oversees about $3.9 billion.
“The territorial dispute and current relationship between Japan
and China dulled individual investors’ appetite.”  A sale for a  fund  related to Japanese stocks by Nomura in
March drew 33.4 billion yen, or about 26 percent of the upper
limit of 130 billion yen set for the product, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That coincided with a 9.5 percent climb
for the month by the Nikkei 225 Stock Average, the biggest gain
since December. The stock gauge climbed 6.2 percent last month,
the most since that March rally.  More Tourists  The amount invested with Nomura’s new fund “is the result
of customers’ needs,” said  Kaori Taguchi , a Tokyo-based
spokeswoman. “If we consider the recent market condition, 4.4
billion yen is not that small. We are not aware that investors
didn’t buy because of the current Japan-China dispute.”  China released three of four Japanese detained last week
for allegedly videotaping military targets, Japan’s Foreign
Minister Seiji Maehara said in parliament yesterday. Japan last
week released the captain of the Chinese fishing trawler.
Japan’s Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said on Sept. 28 there is no
plan “at this point” to meet with Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao 
at an Asia-Europe summit next week to help mend relations.  Nomura’s new fund will buy shares in consumer-related
stocks, including department stores, cosmetics producers and
electronic products in anticipation of rising tourist numbers,
 Satoshi Tsuji , senior marketing executive of Nomura Asset, said
before the sale amount was announced.  Spending More  In August, a record 171,800 Chinese tourists visited Japan,
according to the  Japan National Tourism Organization , a
government agency aimed at attracting more tourists. July saw a
59 percent jump to 165,100 from the previous month. In the six
months through June, before the visa rules were relaxed, Japan
had a total of 704,500 Chinese tourists.  “Spending by Chinese tourists has risen along with an
increase in the number of Chinese tourists,”  Tsuji  said. “The
theme gives investors another view of Japanese stocks.”  Chinese tourists spend an average 250,000 yen each,
 Chiwoong Lee , an economist at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , wrote in
a report dated July 5. Total spending may expand by about 51
billion yen based on an assumption that the number of Chinese
tourists will double and spending will decline 75 percent from
the current average, he wrote.  Masatomo Azuma, a fund manager at Nomura Asset, said the
companies they invest in will be disclosed in a monthly report
at the end of October.  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 0.4 percent today and
Nomura Holding’s shares advanced 2.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Satoshi Kawano  in Tokyo 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Takahiko Hyuga  in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net . 