-- Leveraged-Loan Spreads Climb to Record as Issuance Hits Post-Crisis Peak
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r   a n d   K r i s t a   G i o v a c c o
-- 2010-10-01T09:27:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/loan-spreads-climb-to-record-as-company-issuance-hits-a-post-crisis-peak.html
Investors are demanding the highest
risk premiums to buy leveraged loans as companies borrow at the
fastest pace since the beginning of the credit crisis.  New-issue spreads for high-risk, high-yield loans rated
four to five steps below investment grade climbed to an average
of 5.2 percentage points over lending benchmarks during the
third quarter, beating the last record of 5 percentage points at
the end of 2001, when the previous recession ended, according to
Standard & Poor’s Leveraged Commentary and Data.  Banks arranged $249.6 billion of leveraged loans during the
first nine months of this year, more than 2.5 times the 2009
amount and the most since 2007, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, as companies paid down a so-called debt maturity wall
and leveraged buyout volume more than doubled. Investor demand
for higher coupons is supporting a rally and higher returns for
loans raised in 2010 even as the U.S. economic recovery slows.  “Issuance is going to continue to be heavy compared to the
past couple years as two things happen: potential M&As, whether
it be sponsor related or strategic, and companies looking to
extend maturities to manage their debt profiles,” said  Erik Falk , co-head of leveraged credit at KKR & Co.’s asset
management unit, which oversees more than $13 billion of
investments, including loans. “Issuers are willing to pay up,
especially in this low-rate environment, on a spread basis.”  Spreads are widening to compensate for lending benchmarks
that are at or near record lows.  Low Interest Rates  The Federal Reserve has kept the federal funds rate it
charges to banks for overnight loans to an all-time low of zero
to 0.25 percent since December 2008 to help stimulate lending.
The three-month  London interbank offered rate , which banks
charge to lend to each other, yesterday was at 0.29 percent, and
has been below 1 percent since May 2009.  Leveraged buyouts in the first nine months for this year
rose to $86.3 billion from $39.3 billion during the same period
in 2009, Bloomberg data show. Private-equity firms carried out
$468.6 billion of buyouts by the end of the third quarter three
years ago, at the height of the market.  Speculative-grade companies this year repaid $67.1 billion
of loans maturing through 2014, reducing the amount of debt at
the maturity wall’s peak to $353 billion, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch data. Total leveraged loans outstanding
were at $470.8 billion at the end of the second quarter, $100
billion less than 2008.  ‘Unique Strength’  “The loan market has the wind at its back right now as
cash flowing in via repayments creates a natural bid that
suggests a unique strength,” said  Dan Toscano , global co-head
head of leveraged finance at  Morgan Stanley . “Absolute yields
and cost of capital are at historic lows, and yet credit spreads
are still fairly wide.”  The margin over Libor for institutional loans rated two to
three levels below investment grade increased to a record 4.14
percentage points since June, the widest since 3.89 percentage
points in the last quarter of 2002, according to S&P LCD.  High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and BBB- by S&P. So-called institutional loans
are mainly bought by non-bank lenders such as collateralized
loan obligations, mutual funds and hedge funds.  Due to a limited amount of transactions, there’s no spread
data for new-issue institutional loans graded BB and BB- in the
first and third quarters of 2009; figures for the final three
months of 2008 through the first six months of last year aren’t
available for B+ and B ratings, according to S&P LCD.  The Fed won’t raise its  benchmark lending rate  until the
fourth quarter of next year, when the central bank might
increase it to 0.5 percent, according to economist surveyed by
Bloomberg News in September.  Monetary Easing  Fed officials on Sept. 21 reiterated a commitment to keep
the federal funds rate at its historic low for an “extended
period” when they also said that the central bank may ease
monetary policy further to spur growth and support prices.  The world’s biggest economy grew at a 1.7 percent annual
rate in the second quarter, the Commerce Department said
yesterday, slowing from 3.7 percent in the first three months of
the year and 5 percent at the end of 2009. Meanwhile,
 applications  for U.S. unemployment benefits decreased by 16,000
to 453,000 last week, the Labor Department said, signaling that
companies are cutting back firings even as the economic recovery
slows.  “Markets are expected to remain in a sluggish-growth, low-
inflation mindset and interest rates are likely to remain low
for quite a while,” said  Josh Feinman , global economist at DB
Advisors, unit of Deutsche Bank AG that manages $217 billion of
assets. “The modest recent improvement in data supports
investor demand in risk assets.”  Loan Prices  The  S&P/LSTA US Leveraged Loan 100 Index , which tracks the
100 largest dollar-denominated first-lien loans, gained 4.11
percent this quarter and is up 5.71 percent for the year.  Investor appetite for the debt resulted in 84 percent of
loans raised this year to trade an average 0.87 cent above their
issue prices, JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts led by  Peter Acciavatti  said in a Sept. 24 report. All 27 loans sold in the
last two months trade an average 1.33 cent over where they
priced, according to the report.  Reynolds Group Holdings Ltd.’s $1.52 billion term loan D to
help buy Pactiv Corp., Nalco Holding Co.’s $750 million of term
loans to refinance debt, Advance Pierre Foods’ $1.065 billion of
term loans for a three-way merger and Clopay Ames True Temper
Holding Corp.’s $375 million loan backing a merger are among
loans that rose after they started trading this week.  The loans had spreads ranging from 1.75 percentage point to
9.5 percentage points over Libor, with an average of 5.04
percentage points, Bloomberg data show.  Supply And Demand  Lenders got 1.5 percent to 1.75 percent floors on the
lending benchmark for all but one of the loans to protect
against historically low Libor levels. The companies issued the
loans at a range of 95.5 cents to 99.5 cents on the dollar,
reducing their proceeds and boosting the yield for investors.  “For now, supply is falling short of demand, so new
vintage deals continue to trade well,” said  Gil Tollinchi ,
senior vice president of credit trading at TCW Group Inc.’s
leveraged finance unit, which has about $110 billion in assets
under management. “There has been stability in older vintage
deals, which have comparatively low spreads and no Libor
floors.”  The $66.7 billion of leveraged loans issued since June is
$4.44 billion less than the first three-month period this year
and 60 percent of second-quarter volume, according to Bloomberg
data.  Forward Calendar  As of Sept. 24, the amount of loans banks are planning to
market to institutional investors had declined 19 percent from
this year’s peak to $18 billion, the least since Aug. 27,
according to weekly reports by strategists led by  Bradley Rogoff 
at Barclays Capital, the investment banking arm of Barclays Plc.  “The forward calendar may be slowing down a bit, which
will be effective in keeping the current rally alive,” said
 Richard Byrne , chief executive officer of Deutsche Bank
Securities Inc., the investment banking unit of Deutsche Bank.
“This year has been extraordinary and a lot of companies will
continue to issue paper if demand remains strong.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 