-- Obama Budget Process Held Up While Senator Landrieu Keeps Lew in Limbo
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2010-10-01T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/obama-budget-process-held-up-while-landrieu-keeps-lew-in-limbo.html
The standoff between the Obama
administration and Democratic Senator  Mary Landrieu  over an
offshore drilling moratorium also is creating hurdles for White
House officials putting together the next budget.  The Louisiana senator is blocking the confirmation of  Jacob Lew , President  Barack Obama ’s choice to be White House budget
director, to protest the administration’s temporary ban on
deepwater oil and gas drilling, put in place after the  BP Plc 
oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.  The Office of Management and Budget has been without a
director since the end of July, disrupting or at least delaying
administration decisions on spending levels, taxes, budget cuts
and the overall budget direction for fiscal 2012.  “This is an absolutely key time to have a very top-rate
budget director in place,” said  James R. Horney , a budget
expert at the  Center on Budget Policy and Priorities  in
Washington. “This is such a delicate time and so many big
issues.”  Lew’s nomination was approved 22-1 last week by the Senate
Budget Committee, clearing the way for a vote by the full
chamber. Under rules that let any senator block a presidential
nominee for any reason, Landrieu put a “hold” on Lew’s
nomination Sept. 23. She said the drilling moratorium was having
“such a devastating impact on working people and small
businesses throughout the Gulf Coast.”  Landrieu’s hold is supported by Louisiana’s other senator,
Republican  David Vitter . “Unfortunately, sometimes holds are
needed to get this administration to focus,” Vitter said in a
statement.  The stalemate continued as the Senate left town to campaign
for the Nov. 2 elections. Lawmakers won’t return until Nov. 15.  White House Criticism  Obama’s chief spokesman,  Robert Gibbs , criticized Landrieu
from the podium of the White House briefing room.  “I think it is sad, and I think it’s outrageous,” Gibbs
said yesterday. “We’re not bargaining the safety of oil
drilling away for an appointment.”  Lawmakers “who are concerned about our fiscal picture, who
are concerned about where we’re heading in this  deficit  at a
time of crisis, would not do the type of things that Senator
Landrieu is doing,” he said.  Because the Senate technically remains in a pro forma
session while out of town, Gibbs said that makes it “difficult
to impossible” for Obama to put Lew in the job using a process
known as a recess appointment.  Lew can’t make budget decisions until he’s confirmed. He
remains in his post as deputy secretary of state, Gibbs said.  Gulf Concerns  Landrieu said she has no quarrel with the qualifications of
Lew, who served as budget chief under President  Bill Clinton .  Even so, “I found that he lacked sufficient concern for
the host of economic challenges confronting the Gulf Coast,”
the senator wrote to Senate Democratic Leader  Harry Reid ,
explaining her opposition. “The fact that the most acute of
these economic challenges, the moratorium, results from a direct
(and reversible) federal action only serves to harden my stance
on Mr. Lew’s nomination.”  Obama imposed the moratorium following the BP oil spill,
the biggest in U.S. history, saying authorities needed to review
the cause of the leak and the safety regulations for drilling.  Landrieu has said she’ll keep the hold in place until the
ban is lifted.  Added Hurdles  The budget process is complicated by election-year
politics, Congress’s failure to pass a federal budget for fiscal
2011, which starts today, and an administration directive to
most agencies to submit proposals for a 5 percent budget cut.
Agencies also have been ordered to identify their five poorest
performing programs. In addition, Obama’s commission on the
deficit is set to make its tax and budget recommendations on
Dec. 1.  “It’s very difficult when you don’t have a budget director
who has access to the president, has his authority going back to
the agencies and ride herd” on preparing the budget and making
spending decisions, said  Joseph Minarik , a former chief
economist at the budget office.  A delay also leaves murky the exact direction of the
administration.  “You also don’t have the communication with the Congress
on where the president is going, what his priorities are,”
Minarik said. “The longer this goes on, the worse the situation
gets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Roger Runningen  in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  