-- Obama Calls Guatemalan Leader to Apologize for Syphilis Study
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 2010-10-01T21:51:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/obama-apologizes-to-guatemala-for-infecting-prisoners-with-stds-in-1940s.html
President  Barack Obama  personally
apologized today for a U.S. government experiment conducted in
the 1940s in which prisoners in Guatemala were deliberately
infected with a sexually transmitted disease.  Obama delivered the apology in a telephone call to
Guatemalan President  Alvaro Colom .  “This is tragic and the United States by all means
apologizes to all those who were impacted by this,” White House
press secretary  Robert Gibbs  said earlier today.  The U.S. Public Health Service conducted the testing from
1946 to 1948 to study inoculations against sexually transmitted
disease, according to a joint statement from Health and Human
Services Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  and Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton . They called the experiments “clearly
unethical.”  In his call with Colom, Obama “reaffirmed the United
States’ unwavering commitment to ensure that all human medical
studies conducted today meet exacting U.S. and international
legal and ethical standards,” a White House statement said.  Current regulations would prohibit such experiments. The
U.S. will conduct a “thorough investigation” into the 1946
study, Clinton and Sebelius said. Clinton asked Guatemala to
join in the probe during a separate call to Colom, according to
the State Department.  Experiment Unearthed  The experiment was unearthed by Susan Reverby, a professor
of women’s and gender studies at Wellesley College in
Massachusetts. In a synopsis of her  paper  on the study, Reverby
said the researchers arranged for subjects to have sex with
prostitutes infected with syphilis to test inoculations. The
study didn’t provide useful information and was abandoned, she
wrote.  The researcher who led the study later took part in what is
known as the Tuskegee experiment. In that case, the Public
Health Service conducted a  study of syphilis  from 1932 to 1972
on 600 black men in Alabama. The 399 test subjects who had
syphilis weren’t told they had the disease or given treatment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Johnston  in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  