-- Oil Majors Will Dominate U.S. Shale Gas Acquisitions, Wood Mackenzie Says
-- B y   F r e d   P a l s
-- 2010-10-01T07:37:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/oil-majors-will-dominate-u-s-shale-gas-acquisitions-wood-mackenzie-says.html
Oil majors  will continue to buy shale
gas resources in the U.S. and dominate that market over the next
couple of years after spending $21 billion on the fuel in the
first half of this year, Wood Mackenzie said.  “Shale gas offers a good fit for the large caps and
majors, playing to their technical capability, financial
strength and long-term view, all of which are pre-requisites for
those looking to build a material position,”  Luke Parker ,
manager of merger and acquisition research at Wood Mackenzie
Consultants Ltd., wrote in a note today. “Hence this peer group
will continue to dominate the large scale deal activity.”  Companies including  Exxon Mobil Corp. , BP Plc and  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc  are snapping up reserves of unconventional gas,
an industry term for fuel trapped in shale formations, coal beds
and impermeable sandstone rock. The companies are betting prices
for the cleaner-burning fuel will rise as governments curb
carbon dioxide emissions and as more accessible sources dwindle.  Exxon Mobil, the world’s largest oil company, bought XTO
Energy Inc. for $30 billion in December while Royal Dutch Shell
Plc, Europe’s largest oil company, in May agreed to buy most of
closely held East Resources Inc. for $4.7 billion in cash. Total
SA accelerated its expansion into gas with the $2.25 billion
purchase of  Chesapeake Energy Corp. ’s U.S. assets.  “In a wider upstream oil and gas sector characterized by
dwindling opportunities and increasing risks, the emergence of
such an attractive resource - competitive with other global
opportunities by every measure - has been a game changer,”
Parker said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fred Pals  in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  