-- Oliver Stone Shares a Love With Wall Street: Roger Lowenstein
-- B y   R o g e r   L o w e n s t e i n
-- 2010-10-01T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/oliver-stone-shares-a-love-with-wall-street-roger-lowenstein.html
We already knew that  Oliver Stone , a
stockbroker’s son, didn’t like Wall Street. He thinks of it as a
place where people have no morals and will do anything for
money. Most of them deserve to be in prison -- or so Stone
suggested in a recent interview in the New York Times.  This isn’t, necessarily, because people on Wall Street have
broken a law, or murdered anyone. They have violated the values
in Stone’s moral universe. These codes are never drawn in shades
of gray; Stone is a moral absolutist.  His latest film, “Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps,” a
sequel to the 1987 original “Wall Street,” again stars  Michael Douglas  as Gordon Gekko, though now in a murkier role as a
released felon and something of an elder statesman. The primary
villain this time is played by  Josh Brolin , who portrays the
captain of a securities firm. Brolin is secretly shorting the
stock of a competitor firm (think Bear Stearns). It isn’t clear
that Brolin’s character has committed a crime: only the crime of
greed, and of driving a competitor out of business.  The social malignancy is characteristic of the people in
Stone’s Wall Street. They don’t plumb for value or raise capital
for business or invest for the future -- they speculate. And
speculation, the film posits, is “the mother of all evil.”
They also do a lot of insider trading -- or such is the
impression in this vaguely articulated film.  Full of Secrets  Everyone on Wall Street seems to have a secret, and the
secret is dark. The one exception is the hero, an earnest trader
played by  Shia Labeouf . He is interested in clean energy and
therefore he is good. Because he is good, he is  handsome  and
young, while the villain is middle-aged and always seems to be
sneering. In case the message still isn’t clear, Stone contrives
to have the Brolin and Labeouf characters engage in a motorcycle
race -- a test of virility, even of moral fiber. The young stud
wins.  Stone is right that Wall Street is rife with greed, and in
the aftermath of the financial meltdown, the Street is an easy
target. What his vision lacks is nuance -- any appreciation of
the breadth of people, and of their behavior and their ethics,
even on Wall Street.  This is a problem generally when Hollywood tackles
business. Oil companies, power plants and banks are bad.
 Journalists  who investigate what the former are up to inevitably
are good. When was the last time you saw a movie in which the
hero ran a business, let alone a big corporation?  Vapid, Cliched  We expect Hollywood to churn out vapid and cliched films.
Most people don’t go to the movies for intellectual stimulation.
But Stone holds himself out as a moral arbiter. He makes movies
about Latin America -- always, with his trademark absolutism,
portraying the region as the victim of American business
interests. He  champions  the likes of  Hugo Chavez , a fellow
absolutist as well as a strongman bully. He even, to judge by a
recent interview, finds a soft spot in his heart for Iranian
President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad .  Stone recently landed in the soup by making anti-Semitic
remarks in an interview with the U.K.’s Sunday Times newspaper.
Among other gems, he accused the Jewish “lobby” in America of
dominating the media (a slander that is also, Stone-style, a
stereotype,) and of overplaying the Holocaust. He later
apologized. Reading that interview, I think his target wasn’t
only American Jews but also, typically for Stone, America and
American business.  “Hitler was a Frankenstein but there was also a Dr.
Frankenstein. German industrialists, the Americans and the
British. He had a lot of support,” Stone told the Times.  Moral Absolutist  The definition of a moral absolutist is that they will do
anything for a cause. Stone’s cause seems to be hatred of
America and of capitalism. Alongside those alleged evils,
everything else appears, to him, to be relative. Stone, in fact,
is preparing a 10-hour documentary series for Showtime, “ The
Secret History of America ,” that, the director says, will put
both Hitler and  Josef Stalin  “in context.”  The same anti-Americanism and anti-business animus
motivated “JFK,” Stone’s grossly inaccurate film about the
 John F. Kennedy  assassination. It linked the killing to the
“military-industrial complex,” and falsely implied that  Lyndon Johnson  was involved in a supposed cover-up. That film, by the
way, grossed more than $200 million, quite a bonanza for the
anti-industrialist Stone.  It is the same hatred of business that inspired “Wall
Street: Money Never Sleeps,” though the rhetoric this time is
rather tame. Douglas’s Gekko is even allowed a moment of
relativism when he says, “We’re all mixed bags,” though the
tone of the movie is darker than that comment implies.  Limp Entertainment  As entertainment, the movie is limp; rather than run with
the real fiasco of the mortgage meltdown, Stone invents a new
plot, half involved with the subprime mess, half about nuclear
fission, and all mixed in with a love story. Why not use the
real-life material of the mortgage bubble? Stone responded in
yet another  interview  with the New York Times that mainstream
moviegoers wouldn’t be interested.  “People won’t watch a business movie,” he said. So in the
end, Stone does care about commerce -- about selling tickets.
Stone depicts Wall Street as a place without scruples, a place
where people bend the truth to make a buck. Who would know
better than Oliver Stone?  ( Roger Lowenstein , author of “The End of Wall Street,” is
a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Roger Lowenstein at  elrogl@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  