-- Hon Hai, Maker of Apple IPads, Declines After Selling $1 Billion Bonds
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2010-10-01T04:57:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/hon-hai-falls-most-in-four-weeks-after-selling-convertible-bonds.html
Hon Hai Precision Industry Co ., the
world’s largest contract manufacturer of electronics, fell the
most in four weeks after selling $1 billion of unsecured bonds
which can be converted into shares.  The stock retreated 2.1 percent to NT$115 as of midday in
Taipei, set for the biggest loss since Sept. 6 and bringing its
decline this year to 15 percent. Hon Hai’s three-year zero
coupon notes can be exchanged for stock at NT$152.75 a share,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Investors are concerned about potential dilution, but
considering Hon Hai’s large market capitalization I think it’s
an over-reaction,”  Allen Pu , an analyst at Fubon Securities Co.,
said in a phone interview from Taipei. Hon Hai has a market
value of NT$1.1 trillion ($35.4 billion).  Hon Hai, the flagship unit of Foxconn Technology Group that
makes parts for Apple Inc. iPhones and iPads, had its stock
rating cut to ‘neutral’ from ‘overweight’ by JPMorgan Chase & Co.
on Sept. 6 amid concern about earnings growth. Chairman and
founder  Terry Gou  raised wages and accelerated factory
relocation plans in China after a spate of suicides among the
group’s 1 million workers.  Gou last month cut his annual sales growth target to 15
percent from the 30 percent it’s been set at for a decade as
demand for hand-helds fails to offset slowing computer sales.  Growth Targets  “How many companies have grown this big and still grow 30
percent?” Gou, who founded the company in 1974, said in an
interview on Sept. 4.  Worldwide growth in computer shipments, Hon Hai’s main
business, will slow to 12 percent in 2011 from 18 percent this
year, according to estimates at Taipei-based Capital Securities
Corp. Hon Hai’s 2010 sales will rise 39 percent to NT$2.72
trillion, more than Apple,  Dell Inc.  and Nokia Oyj, according to
the average of 18 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “I still think Hon Hai has some strong momentum,” Pu said.
“The first quarter of 2011 will be high season for the company
as people spend the money they get from Chinese New Year on
technology products.”  Hon Hai could rise by as much as 20 percent by March on
first quarter sales, he said.  Credit Suisse Group AG and Standard Chartered Plc arranged
Hon Hai’s sale of convertible bonds, the company’s first in
dollars since August 2003, Bloomberg data show.  China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd ., China’s second-largest
wireless operator, raised $1.84 billion last month from
convertible notes which mature in 2015.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Taipei at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net 
 Katrina Nicholas  in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  