-- Orban Faces Budget Showdown as Hungarian Election Tightens Grip on Power
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2010-10-01T07:16:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/orban-faces-budget-showdown-as-hungary-election-tightens-grip-on-power.html
Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor Orban 
is set to win local elections Oct. 3, securing his unprecedented
grip on power and freeing him of electoral pressures until 2014.  Investors are betting that will give Orban the freedom to
spell out the concrete economic policies and  budget  cuts they’ve
waited for during four months of battles with the European Union
and International Monetary Fund that roiled financial markets.  The forint has gained 4.3 percent against the euro, the
best performance among 31 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg,
since Sept. 8, when the Cabinet committed to the budget deficit
target in Hungary’s 2008 international bailout. Orban will have
to spell out how he will reach that goal to sustain the gains.  “What the market would like to hear are not deficit
targets, strategies and accounting debates but concrete
measures,” said  Gabor Orban , who helps manage $4 billion in
east European debt at Aegon Fund Management in Budapest.  The Fidesz party, which won two-thirds of the seats in
parliament during April elections, can extend that control to
city councils across the country this weekend. The government
has held off presenting details of its 2011 budget, which may
cut local spending to meet deficit targets, during the campaign.  Fidesz was backed by 37 percent of voters nationwide,
compared with 11 percent for its nearest rival, the Socialists,
in a Szonda Ipsos poll published Sept. 28 in the daily
 Nepszabadsag . The party may win an outright majority in Budapest
for the first time since the fall of communism, according to the
survey of 1,500 people conducted Sept. 16-24. The margin of
error was less than 2.5 percentage points.  Local Cuts  “It is no coincidence that the government’s inability to
decide on fiscal cuts has been strung out some six months,
spanning the gap from national to local elections,” said  Nigel Rendell , an emerging-markets strategist at RBC Capital in
London. “Imposing swinging cuts in local expenditure will be no
easy task.”  Some investors are concerned that strong voter support this
weekend may give Orban the mandate to continue his rhetoric
about ending five years of austerity to spur  economic growth .
Hungary’s economic recovery from its worst recession since 1991
halted in the second quarter.  “The result can become a point of reference to justify the
current direction,” said Ferenc Kumin, a senior analyst at the
Szazadveg research institute in Budapest. ‘There will be new
items on the agenda after the election with the start of the
budget debate, but the style and line of the government will
probably stay.”  Domestic Politics  Domestic politics have put Orban in conflict with investors
since the parliamentary campaign, when he accused his
predecessor of lying about the budget.  Credit-default swaps on Hungary’s bonds surged to a one-
year high of 410.24 basis points on June 4 after ruling-party
officials said the previous government had put Hungary at risk
of a Greece-like crisis. The cost of insuring the nation’s debt
fell to 327.61 basis points yesterday, the lowest in more than
two months, according to data provider CMA.  The forint fell to a record-low against the euro July 19,
when the IMF and EU ended a review of Hungary’s bailout without
endorsing the government’s plan to widen the budget deficit to
stimulate economic growth.  The government surrendered to EU pressure on Sept. 8 and
accepted the previous Cabinet’s commitment to reduce the
shortfall to 3 percent of gross domestic product next year.  Rating Under Threat  To convince investors it can meet that pledge, the
government must present spending cuts and revenue increases
totaling at least 200 billion forint ($984 million) in 2011, on
top of a special bank tax approved in July, according to Aegon’s
Orban, who isn’t related to the premier.  “There’s a clear need for the government to lay out a
medium-term fiscal plan detailing how the deficit and debt
issues will be tackled,” said  Neil Shearing , chief economist at
Capital Economics in London.  The deficit pledge hasn’t removed the threat to Hungary’s
credit rating because the government hasn’t clarified its
economic policies, Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors
Service said Sept. 15.  S&P lowered the outlook on Hungary’s BBB- rating to
negative in July and a one-step cut would reduce the grade to
junk for the first time since 1992. Moody’s is also reviewing
Hungary for possible downgrade, though it rates the country
Baa1, two steps higher than S&P.  “The government needs to tread very carefully because S&P
could pull the trigger,” said  Bartosz Pawlowski , a London-based
emerging-market strategist at BNP Paribas SA. “This is the most
clear and important risk at the moment.”  Hungary’s goal is to ensure that the country’s credit
rating improves,  Mihaly Varga , Orban’s chief of staff, said
yesterday. The government wants to follow an economic policy
that fosters growth while “ensuring a sustainable fiscal
balance,” he said at a conference in Szeged, Hungary.  “It is our aim to turn around the current trend of Hungary
being the only country in central Europe that has seen its
credit rating deteriorate in the past years,” Varga said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Edith Balazs  in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  