-- Toronto-Dominion CEO Clark Sees `Huge Opportunity' for Lending in the U.S.
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2010-10-01T17:49:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/toronto-dominion-ceo-clark-sees-huge-opportunity-for-lending-in-the-u-s-.html
Toronto-Dominion Bank , the Toronto-
based lender that today completed its acquisition of South
Financial Group Inc., expects a “huge opportunity” in making
loans to U.S. consumers and small businesses.  “The lending business in the United States is a huge
opportunity,” Chief Executive Officer Edmund Clark said in a
telephone interview. “You can write loans in the United States
today at better terms, better spreads" that are "less risky than
ever before.”  Toronto-Dominion said it completed the purchase of South
Financial for about $191.6 million in cash and stock to expand
in North and South Carolina. The bank now has about 1,300 U.S.
locations from Maine to Florida, making this the first time
Toronto-Dominion has had more branches in the U.S. than it has
in Canada.  Canada’s second-largest bank reported  profit last month
from its U.S. consumer-banking business climbed 64 percent to
C$282 million ($276 million) in the fiscal third quarter.  Clark, 62, said in June the U.S. business will have annual
profit of $1.6 billion within the next three years. He said the
bank doesn’t plan to change its forecast amid a prolonged
slowdown in the U.S. economy and regulatory changes.  “We’re not going to move it back,” Clark said. “We have
to figure out how to get there, but it makes it more challenging
to get there, no question about it.”  The bank added 33 branches in the U.S. last year and will
add about the same in 2010, said Bharat Masrani, president and
CEO of the company’s U.S. consumer bank. Toronto-Dominion may
expand that number to about 50 “in the next couple of years,”
he said.  “Do I want to have more counties where we have sufficient
scale?” Masrani said in a telephone interview. “Absolutely,
and we’ll work towards that.”  Toronto-Dominion fell 6 cents to C$73.78 in 1:16 p.m.
trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange. The shares have risen 12
percent this year, the second-best performer on the 10-member  S&P/TSX
Banks Index .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Alec McCabe at   amccabe@bloomberg.net  