-- Pakistan Ex-General Musharraf Apologizes for Past Mistakes, Starts Party
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2010-10-01T16:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/pakistan-s-musharraf-apologizes-for-past-mistakes-as-new-party-launched.html
Pervez Musharraf , the army general
who was Pakistan’s military ruler for nine years, apologized to
the nation for past mistakes as he launched a new political
party today.  The All Pakistan Muslim League, which Musharraf says has
attracted about 300,000 followers on the social networking site
 Facebook , will wage a jihad, or holy struggle, against
illiteracy and hunger. The 67 year-old general was speaking to
reporters in London, his home since 2008  “The political alternative in Pakistan does not show any
light,” Musharraf said. “I can give that light. I have
confidence I can bring Pakistan towards light in this hour of
darkness.”  Apologizing for mistakes made during his time as president,
Musharraf said, “only God is infallible, humans make mistakes
and I have made mistakes.” The general said he would “be in
Pakistan before the next election.” The country is scheduled to
vote in 2013.  The former army chief took office following a bloodless
coup in 1999 and relinquished the presidency two years ago
following impeachment charges in the Pakistani parliament
alleging the illegal seizure of power and economic
mismanagement. Last year, Pakistani police issued charges
against Musharraf for unlawfully keeping judges under house
arrest in 2007 when he imposed emergency rule.  “I would like to be elected in the democratic tradition
and be elected through the democratic constitution,” he said
today.  ‘Figure From the Past’  “I don’t think he has got that level of political support
to be a leading politician in Pakistan,” said Bhumitra Chakma,
a lecturer in international relations specializing in South East
Asian politics at the  University of Hull  in England. “He is too
discredited and is seen as a figure from the past.”  The party will seek to stamp out poverty and corruption
while improving security, electricity and water, Musharraf said.
The army would not take power in Pakistan “and they never
will,” he said.  Musharraf’s criticism of the leadership of Pakistan follows
floods that left about 17 million people without homes and at
least 1,500 people dead.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew MacAskill  in London at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  