-- Pakistani Militants Attack Dozens of NATO Supply Trucks After Borders Shut
-- B y   F a r h a n   S h a r i f
-- 2010-10-01T09:10:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/pakistani-militants-attack-dozens-of-nato-supply-trucks-after-borders-shut.html
Pakistani militants attacked trucks
supplying NATO forces in neighboring Afghanistan as supplies
piled up at a border crossing closed after Pakistan said
coalition aircraft killed three of its soldiers.  Insurgents struck “40 trucks in the city of Shikarpur and
27 of them were completely destroyed,” Mir Aman Chandio, a
police officer in southern Sindh province, where the raid took
place, said by telephone. Some suspects have been detained, he
said, without elaborating.  It wasn’t clear whether the convoy had been diverted due to
Pakistan’s shutting yesterday of the main supply route into
Afghanistan for what it said was an attack on a border post
inside its territory by  North Atlantic Treaty Organization 
aircraft. Pakistan’s Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani  today
told parliament NATO must apologize, adding that if it doesn’t,
the government has “other options.”  Half of all war supplies to Afghanistan pass through
Pakistan, the U.S. military’s Transportation Command says.  “The border is still closed after the NATO attack
yesterday,” said Zahirullah Khan, a local government official
in Jamrood, part of Khyber Agency through which equipment for
international troops fighting the Afghan Taliban flows. “Around
400 trucks are standing here waiting for the border to reopen.”  Missile Strikes  NATO acknowledged its forces entered Pakistan’s airspace as
part of a raid on insurgents and responded to small arms fire,
the International Security Assistance Force said in a statement
yesterday.  The incident in the Upper Kurram region underscores
tensions between the U.S. and Pakistani armed forces after the
American military this month escalated the number of missile
strikes against Taliban and al-Qaeda militants in northwest
Pakistan’s tribal region.  Pentagon spokesman  Colonel David Lapan  told reporters
yesterday that the closure of the northern route isn’t having an
impact on supply of U.S. and NATO troops because the coalition
has other land and air avenues into Afghanistan, including a
land route in southern Afghanistan that remains open.  Pakistan Offensives  “We don’t put all our eggs in one basket,” Lapan said.  In yesterday’s incident, soldiers “retaliated through
rifle fire to indicate that the helicopters were crossing into
our territory,” Pakistan’s Inter Services Public Relations said
in a statement. “Instead of heeding to the warning, helicopters
went to fire two missiles, destroying the post.”  Pakistan’s  Foreign Ministry on Sept. 27 protested after air
strikes on its soil by NATO helicopters reportedly killed more
than 50 people. It called the military action a violation of the
 United Nations  mandate for U.S.-led forces in Afghanistan.  Pakistan’s army began an offensive against militants based
in its rugged northwestern provinces last October. From the
Taliban stronghold of South Waziristan, fighting has now spread
to six tribal agencies in the region.  The U.S. wants Pakistan to target groups based in the
remaining region, North Waziristan, that have attacked
international troops in Afghanistan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Farhan Sharif in Karachi at 
 fsharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Naween Mangi at 
 nmangi1@bloomberg.net  