-- Peru's Consumer Prices Decline For First Time in 10 Months on Food Costs
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2010-10-01T13:18:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/peru-consumer-prices-declined-0-03-percent-in-september-from-month-earlier.html
Peruvian consumer prices fell for the
first time in 10 months in August as food prices continued to
ease.  Consumer prices fell 0.03 percent last month from August,
according to a statement published in the official gazette.
Economists expected a 0.25 percent increase, according to the
median estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg . From a
year earlier, prices rose 2.37 percent, less than the median
forecast of 2.60 percent of nine analysts.  Monthly  food price  inflation has been slowing since the
second quarter as supply returns to normal after heavy rains
damaged crops and transportation routes at the start of the
year, said  Mario Guerrero , an economist at Scotiabank Peru.
Central bank Governor  Julio Velarde  last month said policy
makers may begin to slow the pace of  interest rate  increases as
concern that the economy might be overheating has eased.  “There’s no pressure on those prices tied to domestic
demand,” Guerrero said in a phone interview from Lima.
“Because of the inflation data, we see a 25 basis-point
increase or even a pause,” by the bank next week, he said.  Policy makers, who raised Peru’s reference rate to 3
percent from 2.5 percent last month, can take time to push
borrowing costs “close to” 4 percent if they don’t see
inflationary pressures and economic growth slows, Velarde said.  South America’s sixth-largest  economy expanded  less than
analysts expected in July after fishing output declined and the
government tempered spending growth.  The central bank forecasts an annual inflation rate of 2.5
to 3 percent for this year, within its 1 percent to 3 percent
target range. Peruvian inflation may be the lowest in Latin
America this year and next, according to the bank.  Peru’s sol closed little changed yesterday at 2.7861 per
dollar from 2.7867 on Sept. 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Quigley  in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  