-- Rouse's Low-Key Style Contrasts With Emanuel's
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2010-10-01T16:21:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/pete-rouse-s-low-key-style-stands-in-contrast-to-emanuel-s-combativeness.html
With his choice of  Pete Rouse  to
temporarily replace  Rahm Emanuel  as White House chief of staff,
President  Barack Obama  is seeking to recapture the “no drama’
culture that defined his early years in Washington.  At the same time, Rouse, a veteran Capitol Hill staff
member and a part of the president’s cast of advisers since
Obama arrived in Washington, represents continuity and a signal
that Obama isn’t looking for a major course correction before
November’s election.  “If he wanted major change, he would have gone outside the
administration,” said  Stephen Hess , a senior fellow at the
Brookings Institution in Washington. “It is not a transition in
which we should expect some real change in direction.”  The change mostly will come in style. Rouse is replacing a
chief of staff known for his combative, fast-paced and intense
managerial style. Emanuel is leaving the administration to
explore a run for mayor of his hometown, Chicago.  Rouse, 64, under consideration for permanent appointment,
is less confrontational and more conciliatory than Emanuel,
according to current and former colleagues, and is more likely
to try to defuse disputes instead of escalating them.  Emanuel and Rouse “have slightly different styles,” Obama
joked in announcing the change. “Pete has never seen a
microphone or TV camera he likes.”  More Fights  Still, Rouse may find himself at the forefront of more
fights with Congress if Republicans win a majority in the House
in November’s midterm elections and shrink the Democrats’ edge
in the Senate.  Rouse went to work for Obama when the freshman Illinois
senator hired him as his chief of staff after former Majority
Leader  Tom Daschle ’s 2004 defeat. Rouse was Daschle’s chief of
staff. With his knowledge of Congress, Rouse helped school Obama
on the ways of Washington.  He navigated Obama through his first years as a senator and
then as a presidential candidate. He was among those advisers
who encouraged the Illinois senator to keep a low profile and
focus on legislative matters -- an approach that had worked for
former New York Senator  Hillary Clinton .  “He probably more than any single person gave Senator
Obama the guidance he needed to be first a new senator because
he was chief of staff, and then ultimately evolving to a
national candidate,” said Daschle, for whom Rouse worked for 19
years.  ‘Most Valuable’  “He was without a doubt the most valuable person on the
Obama staff and continues to be one of the most important in the
Obama White House,” Daschle said.  While Rouse has shared the same title as  Valerie Jarrett 
and  David Axelrod  in the Obama White House -- senior adviser --
he hasn’t shared their more public profiles. He may still avoid
the spotlight that comes with the chief of staff role.  The central duty of the job is to be a human shield for the
president, said  Ken Duberstein , who served as chief of staff for
President  Ronald Reagan .  “You are the one who fields the phone calls at 3 a.m. and
gets to determine whether to awaken the president,” Duberstein
said. “You’re the one who really gets to say ‘no” a lot, so
the president doesn’t have to.”  Rouse was born in New Haven, Connecticut, and has degrees
from Colby College in Maine, the London School of Economics and
Harvard’s John F. Kennedy School of Government.  Before going to work for Daschle in the Senate, he worked
for then-U.S. representative and now Senator  Richard Durbin  of
Illinois, a close ally of Obama’s.  Personal History  Rouse brings to the job some personal history with many of
the Senate Democrats who will be crucial for Obama’s agenda.
During the health-care debate, he spent more than 13 hours in a
room with Nebraska Senator  Ben Nelson  to win his support.  For Obama, “there’s a complete loyalty and trust with
somebody like Pete,” White House press secretary  Robert Gibbs 
said.  That trust has enabled him to handle conflicts within the
administration. Rouse played major role in finding a compromise
role for  Elizabeth Warren  to set up the new consumer bureau amid
differences among some Obama advisers, according to an
administration official who spoke on condition of anonymity.  A once-portly Rouse began working out with Obama’s personal
trainer after the president offered to pay for his sessions.  Another interest: music. Rouse has traveled cross-country
to see the Allman Brothers play and is friends with  Phil Lesh , a
founding member of Grateful Dead. Rouse organized the Grateful
Dead reunion concert during Obama’s campaign.  It may make visiting the commander-in-chief a little easier.
When Rouse was mentioned last year as someone to fill in as
traveling chief of staff, Obama said, “Pete won’t even walk
down the hall to come to my office, let alone get on a plane to
travel with me.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 Jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 Hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 