-- Peugeot's China Hybrid Plan Spotlights Carmakers' Tech-Transfer Dilemma
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 2010-10-01T10:09:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/peugeot-s-china-hybrid-plan-spotlights-tech-transfer-dilemma.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen  may shelve plans
to sell hybrid cars in China unless Beijing softens demands that
foreign automakers hand over technology in return for market
access, senior executives said.  Europe’s second-biggest carmaker is waiting for China to
enact planned legislation on foreign investment before deciding
whether to develop the gasoline-electric vehicles, programs and
engineering chief Guillame Faury said in an interview.  “Our strategy is to be present in China and take our best
technology there,” Faury said at the  Paris Motor Show . “But we
want the technology to remain under PSA’s control.”  Peugeot’s approach highlights the dilemma facing carmakers
eager to expand into China, which last year overtook the U.S. as
the world’s largest auto market.  Nissan Motor Co.  is evaluating
potential Chinese demand for its Leaf electric car as it
discusses joint production with local partner  Dongfeng Motor
Group Co .  “We have to make sure that the batteries aren’t simply
going to be replicated,” Nissan Senior Vice President  Andy Palmer  said in an interview. “In any developing market the
transfer of technology is bound to be a discussion point.”  Peugeot wants Beijing to tone down a draft law that would
require key innovations to be controlled through structures that
are majority-owned by Chinese partners, Chief Financial Officer
 Frederic Saint Geours  said.  “The Chinese government will have to reconsider its
position,” Saint Geours said in an interview. Peugeot’s Chinese
joint venture, also with Dongfeng, and a second partnership it’s
finalizing with China Chang’an Automobile Group Co. are both
under 50-50 ownership.  ‘Half the Growth’  One Chinese government condition for approving the new
venture is that Peugeot contribute innovation, the CFO said.  “China’s going to account for half of the growth in the
global car industry over the next decade,” Saint Geours said.
“If you want an adequate share of that market you have to go
there with new technology.”  Peugeot said yesterday it may adapt its new diesel-electric
hybrid design -- which marries an electric rear transmission to
a combustion engine powering the front wheels -- to produce
gasoline versions with its Chinese partners.  The carmaker has seen recent drafts of the new law and
expects it to come into force by the end of the year, Chief
Executive Officer  Philippe Varin  said.  “This is going to affect the new-energy technologies we
introduce,” Varin told reporters in Paris yesterday. “We’ll
make our technical decisions when we know the final
dispositions.” The company still hopes to win Beijing’s
approval for its alliance with Chang’an early next year, Varin
said.  Third Factory  Peugeot is adding a third factory with Dongfeng to increase
the partnership’s annual capacity to 750,000 vehicles from
450,000. While announcing the French carmaker’s second Chinese
venture in July, Peugeot and Chang’an outlined plans to assemble
Citroen DS cars in the country by 2012 and introduce a new
brand.  Under Varin, Peugeot is pushing to expand overseas and
reduce dependence on saturated western European markets. With a
market share of 3.4 percent in China, its operations are dwarfed
by General Motors Co. and European No. 1  Volkswagen AG , which
respectively claimed 16.3 percent and 13.5 percent of China’s
car market last year.  China Chang’an is the parent of  Chongqing Changan
Automobile Co. , Ford Motor Co.’s partner in China.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laurence Frost  in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 