-- Pinera Seeks to Cut Spending Growth By Half to Curb Chilean Peso Rally
-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 2010-10-01T18:46:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/pinera-seeks-to-cut-spending-growth-by-half-to-curb-chilean-peso-rally.html
Chilean President  Sebastian Pinera 
plans to slow the pace of spending growth next year by more than
two percentage points, below forecasts for economic growth, to
shrink the deficit and prevent Latin America’s strongest
currency in the past three months from further appreciating.  The 2011 budget proposal, submitted to Congress yesterday,
calls for spending of $53.4 billion, a 5.5 percent increase when
taking inflation into account. Government outlays are set to
rise 7.8 percent this year after growing more than 18 percent in
2009, Finance Minister  Felipe Larrain  said today. The government
previously estimated spending would grow 9 percent this year.  Chile’s government seeks to curb spending growth to avoid
further strengthening of the peso, which has appreciated 12
percent in the past three months, or increasing the deficit,
Larrain said in televised remarks last night. Pinera took office
in March pledging to reduce government spending, and his
administration wants to shrink its deficit to 1 percent of gross
domestic product by 2014.  “This is a responsible budget that protects key economic
variables that affect the lives of Chileans, like the exchange
rate, the interest rate and inflation,” Larrain said in the
televised address. “It also puts us back on the path of
returning to a structural fiscal equilibrium.”  The government is under pressure to moderate spending in
2011, said  Alejandro Puente , an economist at Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA.  ‘Increased Spending’  “Increases in public spending are financed through
resources that come from abroad,” Puente said in a telephone
interview yesterday from Santiago. “Increased spending raises
the supply of dollars and as a result causes the exchange rate
to appreciate.”  “An austere budget means not wasting resources that belong
to everyone and using them efficiently,” Pinera said Sept. 26,
according to the statement e-mailed by his press office.  Chile’s central bank estimates the economy will grow 5
percent to 5.5 percent this year and as much as 6.5 percent in
2011, which would be the  fastest increase  since 1996, according
to its latest monetary policy report.  A panel of experts convened by the government estimates
potential gross domestic product, the rate at which the economy
can grow without spurring inflation, will increase from 4.2
percent currently to 4.8 percent in 2011 and 5 percent in 2012,
Larrain said today.  Exporter Concern  Chile’s peso has appreciated because Chile’s economic
growth is outpacing other countries, Pinera said Sept. 22 in New
York.  In trading today, the peso rose 0.6 percent to 480.85 per
dollar from 483.55 yesterday, its strongest closing level since
June 2008.  The spending proposal, Pinera’s first as president, aims to
help alleviate poverty and rebuild a swath of the country
devastated in a Feb. 27 earthquake, Larrain said.  To help businesses hurt by the strengthening peso, the
government has extended loans for small exporters and is
moderating the pace at which it taps foreign funds to finance
earthquake reconstruction.  Opposition Senator  Ricardo Lagos , son of the  former president  of the same name and a member of the congressional
budget committee, is concerned the government will cut social
spending programs.  “The government is going to have to go to great lengths to
convince us that Chile doesn’t have room for a more generous
budget,” Lagos said Sept. 27. “Chile’s economy has strong
fundamentals and is going to grow at a robust pace in coming
years.”  Fiscal Deficit  Pinera inherited a fiscal deficit equivalent to 3.1 percent
of GDP under a new methodology of calculating budgets, Larrain
told reporters in Santiago Aug. 26.  The 2011 budget proposal and government revenue from copper
mining will help Chile close the structural deficit to 1.8
percent in 2011, Larrain said today.  Experts convened by the government estimate a long-term
copper price of $2.59 a pound, up from previous forecasts of
$2.13 a pound, Larrain said.  The budget would allow the government to borrow as much as
$7.8 billion, which is the same level requested in the 2010
budget, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Randy Woods  in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  