-- Polish Manufacturing PMI Hits 46-Month High in September, HSBC Survey Says
-- B y   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 2010-10-01T11:30:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/polish-manufacturing-pmi-hits-46-month-high-in-september-hsbc-survey-says.html
Polish manufacturing industry grew
last month at the fastest pace since November 2006 and inflation
probably accelerated, strengthening arguments for a central bank
rate increase and pushing the zloty higher.  The purchasing managers’ index, a gauge of manufacturing,
advanced to 54.7 in September from 53.8 the previous month, HSBC
said today in an e-mailed statement, based on a survey by Markit
Economics. The median estimate of 13 economists in a Bloomberg
survey was for a reading of 53.2. The  inflation rate  rose to 2.3
percent last month from three-year low of 2 percent in August,
the Finance Ministry estimated.  “These results support the zloty and increase the risk of
a rate increase this year,”  Rafal Benecki  and  Mateusz Szczurek ,
economists at ING Bank in Warsaw, wrote in a research note after
the data. “New orders, export orders and output have reached
levels from the peak of the business cycle in 2005-2007.”  Business confidence in Germany, Poland’s main trading
partner, unexpectedly rose to a three-year high in September,
the Munich-based  Ifo Institute  said on Sept. 24.  Poland’s
economy  expanded by a more-than-expected 3.5 percent in the
second quarter as exports rose, consumer spending increased and
companies rebuilt inventories.  The zloty strengthened to 3.9422 against the euro at 12:54
p.m., up 0.4 percent from 3.9582 before the release. The
currency gained 0.7 percent on the day, the second-biggest rise
of 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  ‘Economic Outperformance’  “The trajectory of PMI series over the past three months
suggests that total output has grown in Q3 2010 at a similar
rate to the April-June period, confirming Poland’s economic
outperformance of the region,”  Kubilay Ozturk , a London-based
economist at HSBC, said in a statement accompanying the survey.  PMI has remained above 50, the threshold indicating overall
improvement in conditions, for 11 months. The figure is a
composite of five indexes: new orders, output, employment,
suppliers’ delivery times and stock purchases.  Rising demand was accompanied by inflation pressure,
especially of production inputs such as grain, paper, metals and
plastics, the HSBC survey said. The pass-through to consumer
prices was mainly due to global commodity prices, as local
“cost-side pressures remain fairly limited,” Ozturk said.  Rate Increase  The  central bank  earlier this week left its main  interest
rate  at a record low of 3.5 percent for a 15th month, citing
limited wage and inflation pressures. The  Central Statistical
Office  is due to report September inflation data on Oct. 13.  Economists and the Polish central bank had predicted
inflation would pick up starting in September. The Finance
Ministry’s 2.3 percent estimate today matched the median
forecast of 13 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “While 2.3 percent isn’t a level that would force a rate
increase, there’s a lot of other data that support a move,”
said Marcin Mazurek, an economist at BRE Bank in Warsaw. The PMI
survey is consistent with third-quarter economic growth of about
4 percent, making it “safe to assume” borrowing costs will
rise by the end of the year, he said.  “Inflation has now reached the trough and will creep up in
coming months,” said Manik Narain, an emerging-markets currency
strategist at UBS AG in London. “So it’s not a question of
whether but when the Monetary Policy Council will move.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Monika Rozlal  in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  