-- Reliance Industries to Raise $1 Billion Debt, Posco Will Sell $700 Million
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2010-10-01T13:21:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/posco-reliance-plan-to-raise-debt-emerging-market-bond-alert.html
The following emerging-market
borrowers are expected to sell international bonds. New
information is followed by previously reported plans.  POSCO plans to sell about $700 million of global bonds this
month, said President Choi Jong Taehired. South Korea’s biggest
steelmaker is rated A2 at Moody’s Investors Service, A at
Standard & Poor’s and A- at Fitch Ratings.  RELIANCE INDUSTRIES LTD. approached banks to help it raise
at least $1 billion from a bond sale, said three people with
direct knowledge of the matter. The energy explorer, India’s
biggest company by market value, is rated Baa2 at Moody’s, BBB
at S&P and BBB- at Fitch.  ASIA  EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF KOREA plans a benchmark-sized sale of
dollar bonds as early as October, said a person familiar with
the matter. The Seoul-based lender known as Kexim is rated A1 at
Moody’s, A at S&P and A+ at Fitch.  KOREA ELECTRIC POWER CORP. had bond investor meetings last
week in Asia and the U.S., two people familiar with the matter
said. The company is considering a sale of at least $500 million
of bonds two people familiar with the matter said last month.
The largest utility in South Korea, also known as Kepco, is
rated A1 at Moody’s, A at S&P and A+ at Fitch.  KOREA FINANCE CORP. is selling as much as $750 million of
six-year dollar bonds at a yield of about 187.5 basis points
more than U.S. Treasuries, according to a person with knowledge
of the sale. The company hired banks to arrange bond investor
meetings on Sept. 10, a person familiar with the plan said.
Korea Finance is rated A1 at Moody’s and A at S&P.  KOREA NATIONAL OIL CORP. plans to raise between $500
million and $1 billion selling bonds to fund acquisitions, a
spokesman for the South Korean company known as KNOC said. The
Gyeonggi-based company, which is engaged in a $2.6 billion
hostile takeover of Dana Petroleum Plc, is rated A1 by Moody’s
and A by S&P.  LG UPLUS CORP. said it hired Morgan Stanley for a sale of
$300 million in two-year exchangeable bonds in Europe and Asia
this month. The South Korean mobile-phone operator is rated Baa3
at Moody’s and BBB- at S&P and Fitch.  LOTTE SHOPPING plans to sell $100 million of one-year
floating-rate notes this month to repay maturing debt, said
company spokesman  Lee Sun Dae . South Korea’s biggest department-
store owner is rated A3 at Moody’s and A- at Fitch.  RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORP. may sell as much as $500
million of five- or seven-year bonds in yen or dollars as early
as November to exploit lower funding costs in those currencies,
said Finance Director  Hari Das Khunteta . India’s state-run
lender to power projects is rated Baa3 at Moody’s and BBB- at
Fitch.  CENTRAL, EASTERN EUROPE  BANKAS SNORAS said it hired Commerzbank AG for meetings
with investors starting Sept. 13 before a planned sale of euro-
denominated bonds. Lithuania’s fifth-largest bank by assets is
rated B+ at Fitch.  BULGARIA may sell bonds in international markets early next
year to help cover its budget deficit, said Finance Minister
Simeon Djankov. The country is rated Baa3 at Moody’s, BBB at S&P
and BBB- at Fitch.  OAO GAZPROM plans to sell its first international bonds in
more than a year by the end of 2010, said Yana Kolosovskaya, the
company’s head of loans and guarantees. The Russian gas export
monopoly is rated Baa1 at Moody’s and BBB at S&P and Fitch.  KERNEL HOLDING may sell Eurobonds by the end of this month,
Interfax reported, citing a person with knowledge of the matter.
ING Groep NV and JPMorgan Chase & Co. will organize the sale,
the news agency said. Ukraine’s second-largest exporter of
sunflower oil has no credit rating, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  KOLEJE MAZOWIECKIE said it plans to sell as much as 100
million euros ($130 million) of bonds in the fourth quarter. The
Polish railway company that operates in Mazowsze region hired
Standard Bank Plc to manage the sale. Koleje has no credit
rating, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  PKO BANK POLSKI SA will sell as much as 800 million euros
($1.1 billion) of five-year Eurobonds to finance expansion and
increase lending. The largest bank in Poland, which met with
investors in April, hired HSBC Holdings Plc and Societe Generale
SA to manage the sale. PKO is rated A2 at Moody’s.  POLSKIE GORNICTWO NAFTOWE I GAZOWNICTWO hired Societe
Generale SA, BNP Paribas SA and UniCredit SpA to manage its
planned sale of Eurobonds. Poland’s dominant gas distributor
delayed the sale of 500 million euros of five-year bonds until
the first quarter of 2011, Chief Financial Officer  Slawomir Hinc 
said on Aug. 31. The company known as PGNiG is rated Baa1 at
Moody’s and BBB+ at S&P.  SERBIA plans to raise $400 million by the end of the year
selling Eurobonds backed by a World Bank guarantee, Branislav
Toncic, head of the country’s debt management agency said. The
sale will be a “closed, private placement,” Toncic said.
Serbia is rated BB- by S&P and BB- by Fitch.  OAO SEVERSTAL plans to meet bond investors in Europe, Asia
and the U.S. to discuss a sale of dollar bonds, said a banker
with knowledge of the roadshow, managed by Barclays Capital,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.
Russia’s largest steelmaker is rated BB- at S&P and B+ at Fitch.  OAO TMK plans to sell ruble bonds and Eurobonds to
refinance $3.6 billion of debt, Senior Vice President  Vladimir Shmatovich  said. Russia’s biggest producer of steel pipes is
rated B1 by Moody’s and B by S&P.  VTB GROUP hired Citigroup Inc., Deutsche Bank AG and its
VTB Capital unit for a sale of dollar bonds, a banker involved
in the deal said. Russia’s second-largest lender is rated Baa1
at Moody’s and BBB at S&P and Fitch.  YASAR HOLDINGS hired Barclays Plc for a sale of five-year
notes in dollars, said a person familiar with the matter. The
Turkish company that makes dairy and meat products, paint and
paper plans to meet investors from Sept. 20 in Germany,
Switzerland, the Netherlands and the U.K., said the person.
Yasar is rated B2 at Moody’s and B at Fitch.  MIDDLE EAST & AFRICA  BURGAN BANK SAK may sell $300 million to $500 million of
10-year Tier 2 bonds in dollars that may be priced to yield in
the low 8 percent range, said two people familiar with the
offering. JPMorgan Chase & Co., Morgan Stanley and Standard
Chartered Plc are managing the sale. The Kuwaiti lender is rated
A2 at Moody’s and BBB+ at S&P.  JORDAN hired JPMorgan Chase & Co., HSBC Holdings Plc,
Credit Suisse Group AG and Arab Bank Plc for a Eurobond sale,
said Finance Minister  Mohammad Abu Hammour . The country is rated
Ba2 at Moody’s and BB at S&P.  QATAR TELECOM QSC hired six banks to help organize meetings
next week with credit investors in Singapore, Hong Kong, Los
Angeles, New York, Boston, Dubai and London ahead of a possible
dollar bond sale, said a person familiar with the matter. The
company is rated A2 at Moody’s, A at S&P and A+ at Fitch.  LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN  ARGENTINA received suggestions from Wall Street bankers to
sell bonds, Ambito Financiero newspaper reported, without saying
how it obtained the information. One investment bank offered to
arrange a sale of $1 billion of five-year bonds paying 8.75
percent interest, the Buenos Aires-based newspaper said. The
proposals were made during a meeting between Economy Minister
 Amado Boudou  and 35 investment fund managers at Deutsche Bank
AG’s offices in New York, the newspaper said. Argentina is rated
B3 at Moody’s Investors Service and B at Standard & Poor’s.  BOLIVIA plans to sell debt abroad in the first half of
2011, its first international bond sale in more than 70 years,
Viviana Arinez, a Finance Minister spokeswoman, said in an
interview. The country’s debt is rated B2 by Moody’s and B by
Standard & Poor’s.  BUENOS AIRES province in Argentina may sell as much as $550
million of dollar bonds after issuing the same amount in five-
year debt earlier this week, Ambito Financiero newspaper
reported. Argentina is rated B3 at Moody’s and B at S&P and
Fitch.  COSTA RICA will sell its first international bonds since
2004 after Moody’s raised the country’s credit rating to Baa3,
said  Laura Chinchilla , the country’s president. The Central
American country is rated BB at S&P and Fitch.  GRUPO FERTINAL SA hired UBS AG to underwrite its sale of
$200 million of five-year notes, a person familiar with the
offering said. The Mexican producer of fertilizers is rated B2
at Moody’s and B at S&P.  MEXICO hired Nomura Securities Co., Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan
Stanley Securities Co. and Mizuho Securities Co. to manage the
sale of about 150 billion yen ($1.8 billion) of bonds backed by
the Japan Bank for International Cooperation in October, said
Octavio Lara, deputy general director of debt issuance at the
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit of Mexico. The country is
rated Baa1 at Moody’s and BBB at S&P and Fitch.  PANAMA plans its first yen-denominated bond sale with an
offer to raise the equivalent of $500 million on Japanese
markets early next year, Finance Minister Alberto Vallarino
said. The country is rated Baa3 at Moody’s and BBB- at S&P and
Fitch.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Krystof Chamonikolas  in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  