-- Prempro Judge Uses Experience With His Stubborn Mules to Deal With Lawyers
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2010-10-01T04:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/prempro-trial-judge-uses-mule-experience-to-deal-with-lawyers.html
U.S. District Judge  Bill Wilson  is
comfortable among stubborn creatures.  Wilson, whose court is in Little Rock, Arkansas, spends his
days wrangling with lawyers as he works his way through some of
the 8,000 lawsuits seeking millions of dollars in damages over
 Pfizer Inc. ’s menopause drugs Prempro and Premarin. At night, he
relaxes by corralling his prize Tennessee walking mules on a 15-
acre farm.  While the mules live up to their reputation for
stubbornness, they have a finely tuned “sense of self
preservation,” Wilson said in an interview. “They are like
lawyers in that regard.”  The judge, who refused to consolidate the Prempro cases
into a class action, or group suit, is set to preside today over
the 13th stand-alone trial for damages allegedly caused by the
drug. Averse to forcing parties to settle, he’s known for giving
his lawyers, like his mules, their heads in litigation. With
that attitude, he’s likely to repeat his referee role frequently
as the drug disputes play out.  Wilson, 70, oversees Prempro suits consolidated in a so-
called  multidistrict litigation , or MDL, which is designed to
save time and money in pretrial exchanges of evidence between
the drugmaker and plaintiffs. The judge also presides over jury
trials focusing on claims the drug caused breast cancer.  Down-Home Humor  Wilson is known for sprinkling down-home humor in court and
his rulings, said  Morgan “Chip” Welch , a lawyer who has
practiced before him.  The judge once warned lawyers scheduling pretrial witness
sessions not to “load one firm’s wagon with more poles than a
mule can pull.” He said the chance he’d make a particular
ruling had “as much chance as a gnat has flying out of tar
paper.”  “He’s got a million of those sayings,” Welch, a Little
Rock lawyer, said in an interview. “While he has a homespun
manner, he backs that up with a sharp legal mind and well-
reasoned decisions.”  Women such as Margaret Wilson, who isn’t related to the
judge, contend officials of Pfizer’s Wyeth unit knew Prempro and
Premarin carried a risk of breast cancer and didn’t disclose it.
The companies denied the claims. Jury selection starts today in
Wilson’s Little Rock court.  Six Million Women  More than 6 million women took the  hormone-replacement 
pills to treat menopause symptoms including hot flashes, night
sweats and mood swings. The medicines are still on the market.
New York-based Pfizer bought Wyeth last year for $68 billion.  Wyeth has lost seven of the 12 Prempro cases decided by
juries since trials began in 2006. The drugmaker got some of
those verdicts thrown out at the post-trial stage or had awards
reduced.  In the last Prempro case tried before Wilson, jurors
ordered Pfizer to pay a total of $27.1 million in damages to a
woman who blamed the menopause drugs for her cancer. The company
later settled the case for an undisclosed sum.  Wilson declined to comment on the Prempro litigation. The
judge noted that he’s shied away from pushing Pfizer and
plaintiffs’ lawyers to hammer out a so-called global settlement
as part of the consolidation.  “I don’t believe MDL judges should put themselves in the
role of mediators or arbitrators,” Wilson said in an interview
earlier this year on his farm, dressed in cowboy boots and a
Western hat. “People have a right in this country to their day
in court if they want one. There are very few institutions left
that I much faith in, but the jury system is one of them.”  Right to Jury  Besides his faith in the constitutional right to a  jury
trial , the judge voiced support for class-action suits, in which
claims can be heard for thousands of people who couldn’t afford
to sue on their own.  “I hold, in general, with those who take a rather kindly
view of class actions,” Wilson wrote in a ruling in the Prempro
cases. “They can be the Colt pistol of the little folks, i.e.,
in appropriate cases, they provide the key to the temple of
justice for those who could not possibly afford an individual
action against an economically advantaged defendant.”  Still, Wilson’s general support for class-actions didn’t
extend to the consolidated Prempro cases. He found the suits
didn’t have enough in common to justify proceeding as a group
case. Earlier this year, he sent 200 of the cases back to their
home courts for individual trials.  Clinton Nominee  Wilson was named to the bench in 1993 by President  Bill Clinton , a fellow Arkansas native and Little Rock lawyer. The
judge previously was a prosecutor, criminal-defense lawyer and
civil litigator.  He handled product-liability suits, including rollover
cases against  Ford Motor Co. , and has taught complex litigation
at the University of Arkansas  law school .  In his 17 years on the bench, Wilson said, he has seen
lawyers become too dependent on technology to try cases rather
than rely on their own courtroom skills. Some attorneys are
helpless if their computer crashes, leaving them without
PowerPoint slides for opening and closing arguments, he said.  “PowerPoint is both powerless and pointless if a lawyer
doesn’t have a good case and hasn’t mastered the case,” Wilson
said. “I fear that many lawyers have forgotten how to talk to
juries.”  The judge uses unusual techniques to help jurors understand
complicated cases. In cases hinging on expert testimony, Wilson
said, he has ordered professors off the witness stand to sit by
jurors to make their presentations.  “I let them make their case right next to each other so
you can get a feel for what the rub of their positions are,” he
said.  Unconventional Style  Wilson’s unconventional style is on display when he drives
his extended-cab pickup truck, whose personalized license plate
reads “NUTS2U.” The judge says he’s keeping the plate, which
he got before becoming a judge, over the objections of his wife,
an assistant state attorney general for Arkansas.  “She says it reflects too much juvenilia, but I like it,”
he said. “It conveys my general attitude.”  A country-music fan and history buff, Wilson starts Prempro
litigation status conferences with trivia quizzes for lawyers.  At a 2005 hearing, he posed the question: “On what day did
 Hank Williams  die, what year?” according to a court transcript.
Wilson presides at such hearings from a rocking chair on the
bench.  When the lawyers couldn’t answer, Wilson launched into a
210-word explanation of the circumstances around Williams’ death
and the singer’s blue 1952 Cadillac.  Musical Talent  “If you’re not interested in Hank Williams Sr., you don’t
have much music talent and appreciation,” the judge proclaimed.  He cautioned Prempro lawyers to stop making personal
attacks and avoid “stridency” in their arguments. “Remember,
a soft answer turneth away wrath and wrath begets wrath,” he
wrote in a 2007 letter to the attorneys, quoting Proverbs.  The judge’s Rasputin Mule Farm north of Little Rock
provides the inspiration for many of his country witticisms,
said Welch, a partner in the law firm Welch, Brewer & Hudson.  Dotted with woods, pastures and wild blueberry bushes, his
farm is populated by three dogs, five cats, a dehorned goat,
Guinea hens, a donkey and four mules. The dogs, a Great
Pyrenees, a collie and a  Catahoula hog dog , used to hunt wild
boars, guard the chicken roosts, Wilson said.  Mule Championships  Wilson owns Cobb’s Believe It Or Not, the winner of the
1996 gaited-mule world championships in Tennessee. He prefers
 mules  over horses because they can negotiate tougher terrain and
provide a smooth ride.  “It feels like you are riding in a rocking chair,” the
judge said. “When you are out hunting all day, it sure is nice
to not be jolted around.” A sign on the door of his red barn
reads: “The more I see of people, the more I prefer mules.”  The farm is home to mules Backyard Ben and Ellie May. It
also has served as the retirement facility for Trooper and
Traveler, mules that served as Army mascots for the  U.S.
Military Academy  at West Point. Trooper died in 2007. Traveler
continues to “age gracefully,” the judge said.  Over the years, Wilson’s mules have appeared at events
including the Southwest Little Rock parade and the one following
Clinton’s second inauguration, in Washington in 1996.  The farm is also an unusual training ground for Wilson’s
law clerks. One of them, Bruce Coleson, said he helped the judge
with “mule castration and goat dehorning.”  “I’m going to put those on my resume under job description
for law clerk,” Coleson joked. The University of Texas  School
of Law  graduate will join the Houston firm  Baker Botts LLP  in
November to practice energy law.  ‘Strictly Volunteer’  “I’ve had a few of them over the years,” Wilson said of
his clerk-farmhands. “It’s strictly volunteer. If they want to
come on over and help, they are more than welcome.”  For Coleson, the farm provided a venue for his swearing-in
as a lawyer. The judge was sitting on Cobb’s Believe It Or Not,
and the clerk sat astride Backyard Ben.  “I’m betting I’m the only Texas lawyer to get sworn in on
muleback,” Coleson said.  “He looked good up there,” Wilson chuckled.  The case is In Re Prempro Products, 03-cv-01507-WRW, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Arkansas (Little Rock).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jef Feeley  in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 