-- QOC I, Life Insurance Settlement Company, Files for Bankruptcy in Florida
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2010-10-01T23:43:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/qoc-i-life-insurance-settlement-company-files-for-bankruptcy-in-florida.html
QOC I LLC, a company that owns
previously issued life insurance policies purchased in the life
settlement market, filed for bankruptcy protection citing
declining asset values.  The Boca Raton, Florida-based company listed both assets
and debt of $100 million to $500 million in Chapter 11 documents
filed today in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in West Palm Beach.  “Since 2009, QOC has operated in an extremely unfavorable
global business environment, which included, among other things,
a lack of liquidity in the credit markets and declining asset
values,” QOC said in the filing.  Policies acquired by QOC, issued by insurance companies to
individuals at least 60 years of age, have a face value of
$550 million and a current value of about $164.5 million as of
Aug. 31, court papers show. QOC owes Wells Fargo about
$120 million under a loan agreement that is a secured lien on
the policies.  Steven Shapiro, the president of Q Capital Strategies LLC,
which manages QOC and which isn’t part of the Chapter 11 case,
said in a filing that QOC ran into liquidity problems because it
wasn’t able to collect on the life insurance policies to the
extent it had forecast and because it hasn’t been able to
restructure its debt.  ‘Rapid Softening’  “At the same time that that the rapid softening of the
economy and tightening of the financial markets was limiting the
debtor’s financial flexibility, there have been less frequent
policy maturations in debtor’s portfolio than had been projected
and, thus, the portfolio has so far failed to yield forecasted
revenue,” Shapiro said in the filing.  Throughout this year, QOC has tried to find third party
financing and considered selling all or part of its portfolio,
according to Shapiro’s filing. When it failed to restructure its
Wells Fargo loan, the company concluded it wouldn’t have enough
liquidity to service its debt and fund its operations in the
coming months, Shapiro said.  The case is In re QOC I LLC, 10-40153, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of Florida (West Palm Beach).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dawn McCarty  in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 