-- Rainfall Threatens Nigeria's Cocoa Quality With Black Pod as Season Begins
-- B y   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a
-- 2010-10-01T11:56:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/rainfall-threatens-nigeria-s-cocoa-quality-with-black-pod-as-season-begins.html
Steady rainfall in  Nigeria ’s main
cocoa-growing regions is raising the risk of disease and
threatening bean quality as the new harvest season begins today,
industry officials said.  “Farmers are concerned that there was heavy rainfall in
the last few days and the incidence of black pod was high,”
Akinwale Ojo, a farmer and former secretary-general of Cocoa
Association of Nigeria, said by phone yesterday from the
southwest cocoa-trading town of Akure.  Black pod, a fungus that spreads in times of wet weather
and insufficient sunshine, causes cocoa pods to rot and hinders
output across West and Central Africa, which accounts for 64
percent of global production of the chocolate ingredient,
according to the International Cocoa Organization.  Nigeria ranks behind  Ivory Coast ,  Ghana  and Indonesia in
global production. Exports of the chocolate ingredient are the
country’s second-biggest foreign exchange earner after crude
oil, according to figures published by the government.  Heavy rain in southern Nigeria’s Cross River state, where
cocoa is also grown, flooded some farms and forced farmers to
re-spray their trees with chemicals that prevent the spread of
black pod rot, said  Neji Abang Neji , head of the cocoa
association, which group farmers, traders, processors and
regulators.  The peak of the main crop season could be delayed until
February and March, Neji said in a phone interview today.  “We expected output to be high, but that may not be the way
we expect it” now, he said. On Sept. 1, Neji said production may
increase by 10 percent this season. He declined to revise the
outlook today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vincent Nwanma  in Lagos via Accra at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 