-- Ratings Firms Face Fines, Tougher EU Rules on Sovereign Debt
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2010-10-01T09:14:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/ratings-firms-face-fines-tougher-eu-rules-on-sovereign-debt-assessments.html
European Union finance ministers and
central bank heads are discussing whether government debt
ratings “are necessary” as well as possible fines for rating
agencies at a meeting in Brussels today.  The “economic and political implications” of sovereign-
debt ratings mean “it is particularly important that ratings of
this asset class be accurate, timely and transparent,”
according to a copy of a proposal obtained by Bloomberg News to
be presented by the  European Commission  at the meeting.  Pressure on ratings companies increased after Greece’s
rating was cut to junk status in April, adding urgency to plans
to bail out the debt-plagued nation. Moody’s Investors Service
yesterday cut Spain’s top credit rating to Aa1 from Aaa, citing
weak economic growth prospects and “considerable
deterioration” of the government’s finances.  “The timing of this is completely political,” Sony
Kapoor, managing director of think-tank Re-Define Europe, said
in a telephone interview. “But there is something in the issue.
The problem with credit ratings is that they are self-
fulfilling.”  Ministers are “ready to discuss” fines for ratings
companies who mislead investors with poor quality ratings for
securities, Swedish Finance Minister  Anders Borg  said in
Brussels, while  Didier Reynders , the Belgian finance minister,
said “we do need a regulation on that, it’s very clear.”  Rules to force rating companies to disclose the reasons for
changing a sovereign-debt rating, as well as the timing of the
adjustment, also were being discussed.  Government Finance  “Concern has been expressed on whether the ratings of
sovereign debt are necessary at all given the fact that there is
already a large degree of transparency in the markets as regards
the situation of government finance,” according to the
commission document, dated Sept. 15.  The European Union approved rules for credit-rating
companies last year, requiring them to adhere to a code of
conduct to reduce conflicts of interest between issuers and
rating firms.  The existing regulation doesn’t address problems such as an
“over-reliance on credit ratings,” the “civil liability” of
agencies or “the high degree of concentration” in the market
for ratings of a small number of firms, the EU document said.  More transparent ratings are “a good thing, but it doesn’t
make sense to move to a world where ratings aren’t used,” said
 Michael Hampden-Turner , a credit strategist at Citigroup Inc. in
London yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Moshinsky  in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  