-- Treasuries Fall, 10-Year Yield Increases to 2.53%; Two-Year Notes Decline
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2010-10-01T10:44:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/treasuries-fall-as-chinese-growth-rising-stocks-crimp-demand-for-safety.html
Treasuries  declined, paring their
third weekly gain, as optimism that the global economic recovery
will be sustained boosted stock markets and reduced demand for
the relative safety of fixed-income assets.  Losses pushed the yield up for a third day, the longest run
of increases since Sept. 10. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  gained
0.6 percent, ending four days of losses. A Chinese report showed
manufacturing grew at the fastest pace in four months,
indicating improvement in the global economy and giving the
Federal Reserve less reason to ease monetary policy.  “There isn’t too much desire to be taking bonds on,” said
 Peter Chatwell , a fixed-income strategist at Credit Agricole
Corporate & Investment Bank. “We’ve still got that inverse
correlation, so if there’s more risk appetite it’s naturally
going to cause some selling flows in the Treasury market.”  The 10-year note yield increased 3 basis points to 2.54
percent as of 6:18 a.m. in New York, according to BGCantor
Market Data. The 2.625 percent security due in August 2020 lost
7/32 or $2.19 per $1,000 face-amount to 100 25/32. The yield has
risen from 2.45 percent on Sept. 28, the lowest since Aug. 25.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 0.5 percent today. The
purchasing managers’ index rose to 53.8 from 51.7 in August,
according to China’s logistics federation and statistics bureau.
That beat the median economist forecast of 52.5 in a Bloomberg
News survey. Readings above 50 indicate expansions.  Comments by Fed officials  Dennis Lockhart  and  Charles Plosser  this week curbed expectations the central bank would
increase its Treasury purchases.  More Easing  Fed Bank of Atlanta President Lockhart said Sept. 28 that
policy makers haven’t agreed on whether to begin a new program
of buying Treasuries, and the need for further monetary easing
isn’t clear. Fed Bank of Philadelphia President Plosser said the
following day he opposes more monetary expansion in part because
he sees “little risk” of deflation.  Economic reports yesterday showed gross domestic product
grew at a faster pace in the second quarter than the government
previously estimated, initial jobless claims fell last week, and
business activity as measured by the Institute for Supply
Management-Chicago Inc. accelerated last month.  The notes rose earlier after Federal Reserve Bank of
Cleveland President  Sandra Pianalto  said yesterday the economy
is too slow to push inflation up to the central bank’s preferred
range next year. U.S. manufacturing grew at the slowest pace in
10 months in September, economists in a Bloomberg survey said.  The Institute for Supply Management’s  factory index  likely
fell to 54.5 from 56.3 in August, according to a Bloomberg
survey. The central bank’s preferred price measure, which
excludes food and fuel, rose 1.4 percent in August from a year
earlier, matching July’s reading, a separate survey shows. The
rate fell to 1.3 percent last year, the least since 2001.  Growing Economy  “While the economy is growing, and I expect that it will
continue to grow next year, the current pace of growth is not
fast enough to make much progress in lowering the unemployment
rate,” Pianalto said yesterday in a speech in New York.  “I also expect inflation to remain near its current low
level through next year, lower than the roughly 2 percent rate
that I see as consistent, over the long run, with the Federal
Reserve’s objectives,” said Pianalto, who is a voting member of
the policy making  Federal Open Market Committee  this year.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices, was at 1.81 percentage points. It has
averaged 2.10 percentage points in the past five years.  ‘Nothing to Cheer’  Treasuries returned 2.7 percent in the three months through
September, and are up 8.8 percent this year, according to a Bank
of America Merrill Lynch index. Investors bought the securities
as data showing the recovery will falter fueled expectations of
more credit-easing measures.  Economic data has been “nothing to cheer about” and
“whenever something negative happens, you’ll see a jump
upwards” in bond prices, said  Glenn Marci , a fixed-income
strategist at DZ Bank AG in Frankfurt. “If yields go up, it’s
going to be a slow process.”  The central bank said in August it would use principal
payments from its holdings of agency mortgage-backed securities
and agency debt to buy Treasuries.  The Fed announced on Sept. 21 it is prepared to do more to
help the economy and to keep costs from falling, fueling
speculation policy makers will increase their purchases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  