-- Treasury Two-Year Yield Touches Record Low as Manufacturing Growth Slows
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2010-10-01T16:16:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/treasuries-drop-as-outlook-for-global-recovery-reduces-demand-for-safety.html
Treasury  two-year yields touched a
record low as a report showed U.S. manufacturing growth slowed,
encouraging speculation that the central bank will increase
purchases of debt to spur economic growth.  U.S. notes were headed for a third straight weekly rally
after Federal Reserve Bank of New York President  William Dudley 
said the outlook for U.S. job growth and inflation is
“unacceptable” and that more monetary easing is probably
needed to spur growth and avert deflation.  “The data is telling us the economy is growing, but
growing very weakly,” said  Charles Comiskey , head of Treasury
trading at Bank of Nova Scotia in New York. “It’s becoming
clearer every day that QE II is going to be done.”  The 10-year note yield was little changed at 2.52 percent
at 12:12 p.m. in New York, according to BGCantor Market Data.
The price of the 2.625 percent security maturing in August 2020
dropped 2/32, or 63 cents per $1,000 face amount, to 100 7/8.
The 2-year note  yield  was unchanged at 0.43 percent after
touching the record low of 0.4066 percent.  The  yield  on the 10-year note has dropped 9 basis points
this week to 2.51 percent, while the 30-year bond yield has slid
9 basis points to 3.71 percent. The 2-year note yield has
decreased 3 basis points.  The Tempe, Arizona-based Institute for Supply Management’s
factory index dropped in September to 54.4, the lowest level
since November 2009, from 56.3 in August. Readings greater than
50 signal growth. Measures of orders and production fell to the
lowest level since June 2009.  Fed Statement  The Federal Open Market Committee said in its statement
following its Sept. 21 meeting that it’s prepared to ease policy
if needed to encourage growth and achieve its mandate of stable
prices and full employment.  The  jobless rate  has been above 9 percent since the worst
slump since the Great Depression ended in June 2009, and policy
makers said in the statement last month that inflation measures
are “somewhat below” levels the central bank judges consistent
with its mandate.  Dudley said in a New York speech that the central bank has
“tools that can provide additional stimulus at costs that do
not appear to be prohibitive.”  Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  said on Sept. 28
policy makers haven’t agreed on whether to begin a new program
of buying Treasuries and the need for further monetary easing
isn’t clear. Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  said the
following day he opposes more monetary expansion in part because
he sees “little risk” of deflation.  China’s Manufacturing  Treasuries dropped earlier as reports showed China’s
manufacturing grew at the fastest pace in four months and
consumer spending in the U.S. increased more than forecast.  China’s logistics federation and statistics bureau said via
e-mail that the purchasing managers’ index rose to 53.8 last
month from 51.7 in August. The median forecast of 15 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey was for an increase to 52.5. Readings
above 50 indicate expansion.  U.S. consumer spending rose 0.4 percent for a second month
in August, Commerce Department figures showed today. The median
forecast of 79 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a
0.3 increase. Incomes were up 0.5 percent, the biggest advance
this year, propelled by the resumption of extended and emergency
unemployment benefits.  Treasuries returned 2.7 percent in the third quarter and
are up 8.8 percent this year, according to a Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index.  ‘Slow Process’  Economic data has been “nothing to cheer about” and
“whenever something negative happens, you’ll see a jump
upwards” in bond prices, said  Glenn Marci , a fixed-income
strategist at DZ Bank AG in Frankfurt. “If yields go up, it’s
going to be a slow process.”  The FOMC retained last week its stance from its Aug. 10
meeting of keeping its portfolio of securities stable at about
$2 trillion to keep money from draining out of the financial
system. The Fed bought $2.2 billion of Treasuries maturing from
August 2021 to February 2040 yesterday, increasing the total
purchased since Aug. 17 to $36.812 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  