-- Treasuries Head for Third Weekly Gain Before Factory Report
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2010-10-01T06:05:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/treasuries-fail-to-rebound-on-concern-fed-will-delay-increasing-purchases.html
Treasuries  headed for a third weekly
gain before a U.S. report that economists said will show
manufacturing grew at the slowest pace in 10 months in September.  Ten-year yields were six basis points away from the lowest
level since August after Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland
President  Sandra Pianalto  said the economy is too slow to push
inflation up to the central bank’s preferred range next year. A
government report today will show costs in the economy were in
check in August, economists said.  “Treasuries will be well supported,” said  Satoshi Okumoto ,
a general manager in Tokyo at Fukoku Mutual Life Insurance Co.,
which has the equivalent of $65.9 billion in assets. “There is
a fair chance of a double-dip recession.” Fukoku added to its
Treasury holdings in the third quarter, he said.  The 10-year  note  yielded 2.51 percent as of 6:58 a.m. in
London, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The 2.625
percent security due in August 2020 traded at 101 2/32..  The rate has dropped 29 basis points over the past three
weeks and dropped to 2.45 percent on Sept. 28, the lowest level
since Aug. 25.  The Institute for Supply Management’s  factory index  fell to
54.5 from 56.3 in August, according to a Bloomberg survey. The
central bank’s preferred price measure, which excludes food and
fuel, rose 1.4 percent in August from a year earlier, matching
July’s reading, a separate survey shows. The rate fell to 1.3
percent last year, the least since 2001.  ‘Not Fast Enough’  “While the economy is growing, and I expect that it will
continue to grow next year, the current pace of growth is not
fast enough to make much progress in lowering the unemployment
rate,” Pianalto said yesterday in a speech in New York.  “I also expect inflation to remain near its current low
level through next year, lower than the roughly 2 percent rate
that I see as consistent, over the long run, with the Federal
Reserve’s objectives,” said Pianalto, who is a voting member of
the policy making  Federal Open Market Committee  this year.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices, narrowed four basis points since Sept. 24,
the biggest decline in six weeks, to 1.80 percentage points. The
five-year average is 2.10 percentage points.  The economy has become “bumpy” compared with three months
ago,  John Chambers , chief executive officer of  Cisco Systems
Inc ., the largest maker of networking equipment, said at a
conference Sept. 14.  China Manufacturing  Treasuries  fell earlier today as a Chinese report showed
manufacturing in the nation grew at the fastest pace in four
months, indicating improvement in the global economy and giving
the Fed less reason to ease U.S. monetary policy.  Comments by Fed officials  Dennis Lockhart  and  Charles Plosser  this week curbed expectations the central bank would
increase its Treasury purchases.  Fed Bank of Atlanta President Lockhart said Sept. 28 that
policy makers haven’t agreed on whether to begin a new program
of buying Treasuries, and the need for further monetary easing
isn’t clear. Fed Bank of Philadelphia President Plosser said the
following day he opposes more monetary expansion in part because
he sees “little risk” of deflation.  Economic reports yesterday showed gross domestic product
grew at a faster pace in the second quarter than the government
previously estimated, initial jobless claims fell last week, and
business activity as measured by the Institute for Supply
Management-Chicago Inc. accelerated last month.  Rally Not Over  “The rally isn’t over, but it will take time for yields to
decline,” said  Hiromasa Nakamura , a senior investor in Tokyo at
Mizuho Asset Management Co., which has the equivalent of $35.9
billion in assets. “It will take time to build a consensus
among Federal Reserve policy makers.”  Mizuho trimmed its Treasury holdings a month ago, he said.  The central bank said in August it would use principal
payments from its holdings of agency mortgage-backed securities
and agency debt to buy Treasuries.  The Fed announced on Sept. 21 it is prepared to do more to
help the economy and to keep costs from falling, fueling
speculation policy makers will increase their purchases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 