-- Regulatory Reports on May 6 Stock-Market Retreat: Side-by-Side Comparison
-- B y
-- 2010-10-01T20:37:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/regulatory-reports-on-may-6-stock-market-retreat-side-by-side-comparison.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission and Commodity Futures Trading Commission released
their joint report today on the May 6 stock market crash that
briefly erased $862 billion in value. The following compares
questions raised in their preliminary report on May 18 with
conclusions published today.  The “large fundamental trader” described in today’s report
is Waddell & Reed Financial Inc., an Overland Park, Kansas-based
mutual-fund company, according to two people familiar with the
matter.  On futures selling by a large trader:  May 18: “CFTC staff identified the top ten most active
accounts by gross volume between 2 p.m. and 3 p.m. Of those ten,
nine trading accounts executed trades on both the long and short
side of the market. For these trading accounts, there was a
relative balance of activity between the long and short sides of
the market. One out of the top ten trading accounts only entered
orders to sell. That trader entered the market at around 2:32
p.m. and finished trading by around 2:51 p.m. The trader’s short
futures position represented on average, nine percent on the
volume traded during that period. The trader sold on the way
down and continued to do so even as the price level rose.”  Oct. 1: “This large fundamental trader chose to execute
this sell program via an automated execution algorithm that was
programmed to feed orders into the June 2010 E-Mini market to
target an execution rate set to 9 percent of the trading volume
calculated over the previous minute, but without regard to price
or time. The execution of this sell program resulted in the
largest net change in daily position of any trader in the E-Mini
since the beginning of the year (from January 1, 2010 through
May 6, 2010). ... On May 6, when markets were already under
stress, the Sell Algorithm chosen by the large trader to only
target trading volume, and neither price nor time, executed the
sell program extremely rapidly in just 20 minutes.”  On liquidity in the market for E-mini futures:  May 18: “During the 30-minute period from 2:30 p.m. to 3
p.m., trading volume was about 10 times the average daily
trading volume for the same intraday time period calculated over
the prior 30 days. High trading volume by itself can be
interpreted as an indicator of improved liquidity. However, ...
high trading volume was accompanied by significant volatility of
trading volume. This suggests a dislocation of market liquidity,
with high volume fluctuations at the same time that orders are
executed deep into the limit order book. Consequently, liquidity
indicators based on the characteristics of the limit order book
may provide additional information about the liquidity dynamics
during 2:30 p.m. to 3 p.m. on May 6.”  Oct. 1: “The combined selling pressure from the Sell
Algorithm, HFTs and other traders drove the price of the E-Mini
down approximately 3 percent in just four minutes from the
beginning of 2:41 p.m. through the end of 2:44 p.m. During this
same time cross-market arbitrageurs who did buy the E-Mini,
simultaneously sold equivalent amounts in the equities markets,
driving the price of SPY also down approximately 3 percent.  “Still lacking sufficient demand from fundamental buyers or
cross-market arbitrageurs, HFTs began to quickly buy and then
resell contracts to each other - generating a ‘hot-potato’
volume effect as the same positions were rapidly passed back and
forth. Between 2:45:13 and 2:45:27, HFTs traded over 27,000
contracts, which accounted for about 49 percent of the total
trading volume, while buying only about 200 additional contracts
net.  “At this time, buy-side market depth in the E-Mini fell to
about $58 million, less than 1 percent of its depth from that
morning’s level. As liquidity vanished, the price of the E-Mini
dropped by an additional 1.7 percent in just these 15 seconds,
to reach its intraday low of 1,056. This sudden decline in both
price and liquidity may be symptomatic of the notion that prices
were moving so fast, fundamental buyers and cross-market
arbitrageurs were either unable or unwilling to supply enough
buy-side liquidity.”  On ETFs:  May 18: “The data suggests that ETFs as a class were
affected more than any other category of securities. Trades in
securities issued by ETFs appear to have accounted for nearly 70
percent of the securities in which trades were broken on May 6.
... A relatively large number of ETFs, approximately 160,
experienced lows during the day approximately 100 percent lower
than the May 5 close. ... A significant number of ETFs also
experienced less extreme, but still notable lows of between 35
percent and 100 percent relative to their corresponding May 5
close.”  Oct. 1: “Extreme volatility in component stocks makes it
very difficult to accurately value an ETF in real-time. When
this happens, market participants who would otherwise provide
liquidity for such ETFs may widen their quotes or stop providing
liquidity (in some cases by using stub quotes) until they can
determine the reason for the rapid price movement or pricing
irregularities. A large majority of ETF market makers with whom
we spoke, and particularly those that value underlying stocks as
part of their normal market making activities, paused their
market making for considerable periods of time starting at about
2:45 p.m. on May 6. We believe this is one of the reasons
equity-based ETFs were disproportionately affected by the
extreme price volatilities of that afternoon. We further note
that ETFs that do not derive their value from the prices of
domestic equity securities were not disproportionately
affected.”  On NYSE liquidity replenishment points:  May 18: “We continue to analyze the distribution of broken
trades across markets to determine whether differences in market
structure may have had an impact. Because NYSE pauses or slows
trading in volatile periods when a LRP is triggered, this likely
explains why NYSE had no broken trades on May 6. Some have
suggested that LRPs exacerbated price volatility on May 6 by
causing a net loss of liquidity as orders were routed to other
trading venues for immediate execution rather than wait on the
LRP mechanism. If accurate, this potentially could cause some
NYSE securities to decline further than the broad market
decline. Others believe that the LRP mechanism served to attract
additional liquidity that helped soak up some the excess selling
interest in these securities on May 6.”  Oct. 1: “Participants did not report they had difficulty
routing or felt their orders were ‘trapped’ as a result of LRP
events.  “However, a number of market participants told us that the
fact so many LRPs were being triggered further underscored the
severity of market conditions as they were unfolding, and that
this additional ‘evidence’ played into their decisions to reduce
liquidity, pause trading, or withdraw from the markets.  “Though market participants told us they were able to route
their orders as needed, it is nevertheless possible that
residual liquidity could have been trapped on NYSE during the
LRP events, and that this liquidity could have absorbed some of
the sell pressure of securities with the most severe price
dislocations. In this regard, we note that over 80 percent of
the 326 securities having broken trades were not listed on NYSE
and therefore not subject to the LRP events. For those listed on
NYSE we found 42 of the 56 stocks for which broken trades
occurred on other exchanges were, in aggregate, subject to 180
LRPs lasting 10 seconds or longer.”  On liquidity providers in the stock market:  May 18: “Another interesting question remains as to whether
electronic liquidity providers pulled back during the relevant
timeframe. At approximately 2:40 p.m. on May 6, prices declined
rapidly across many trading venues and products. The activities
of electronic liquidity providers are important subjects for
analysis. These proprietary trading firms have come to be the
dominant type of liquidity provider in the U.S. equity markets.
Consequently, we are analyzing their activities on May 6. As
noted above, we are in the process of obtaining and reviewing
the order book data of exchanges and ECNs. We have, in the
meantime, obtained other data from the exchanges concerning the
activity of their top ten liquidity providing firms from 2 p.m.
to 3 p.m. We continue to analyze these data to assess the
activity of these liquidity providing firms.”  Oct. 1: “Whenever data integrity was questioned for any
reason, firms temporarily paused trading in either the offending
security, or in a group of securities. As a firm paused its
trading, any liquidity the firm may have been providing to the
market became unavailable, and other firms that were still
providing liquidity to the markets had to absorb continued order
flow. To the extent that this led to more concentrated price
pressure, additional rapid price moves would in turn trigger yet
more price-driven integrity pauses.  “Some firms experienced their own internal system capacity
issues due to the significant increase in orders and executions
they were initiating that afternoon, and were not able to
properly monitor and verify their trading in a timely fashion.
When that occurred, trading was paused and sometimes halted for
an extended period of time.  “Another reason cited for withdrawing from the market was a
belief that trades in individual securities at prices
representing a 10 percent or greater short-term move would later
be canceled, leaving a firm inadvertently and excessively long
or short the market. We note that this particular concern was
not necessarily due to uncertainty in whether or not a trade was
going to be canceled, but rather the belief that they were
indeed going to be canceled.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at +1-212-617-5919 or  nbaker7@bloomberg.net .
 