-- Reliance Said to Seek Banks for $1 Billion Bond Sale
-- B y   S u p r o t i p   G h o s h   a n d   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2010-10-01T10:31:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/reliance-industries-said-to-seek-banks-for-1-billion-bond-sale.html
Reliance Industries Ltd. , India’s
biggest company by market value, approached banks to help it
raise at least $1 billion from a bond sale, according to three
people with direct knowledge of the matter.  The energy explorer, owned by billionaire  Mukesh Ambani ,
may use the money for acquisitions, one of the people said,
asking not to be identified as the matter is private. Reliance
rose 2.1 percent to 1,007.90 rupees in Mumbai, its biggest gain
in two weeks.  “Even if you consider that this is from Reliance, it’s
still a big issue,” said  Jagdish Meghnani , an oil and gas
company analyst for Alchemy Share & Stock Brokers Ltd. in Mumbai.
“There are margin pressures on the core business, and people
are expecting much more excitement in terms of new plans to be
announced for the company.”  Ambani, ranked by Forbes India as the nation’s richest
person with $27 billion of wealth, told shareholders in June
that Reliance is planning “mega” investments in power
generation as well as expansion in telecommunications. The
company, which owns the world’s largest refinery, has spent $3.4
billion since April buying U.S. shale-gas assets, and may invest
in a  Chesapeake Energy Corp.  asset, people familiar with the
matter said last month.  Biggest Dollar Sale  A $1 billion bond sale would be Mumbai-based Reliance’s
first benchmark-sized offering in the U.S. currency, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. It raised $162 million in 2007
from 6.24 percent notes due in 2017, the data show.  Spokesman  Manoj Warrier  said in an e-mailed response to
questions from Bloomberg News that he had no immediate comment.  Reliance received $1 billion of term loans from a group of
31 banks in August, a person familiar with the matter said at
the time. A $500 million, five-year facility pays an all-in fee
of 171.5 basis points more than the London interbank offered
rate, while a similar-size, seven-year facility pays 192 basis
points, the person said.  The company and its units have the equivalent of $1.4
billion of bonds and loans due by the end of 2012, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Suprotip Ghosh  in Mumbai 
 sghosh47@bloomberg.net ;
 George Smith Alexander  in Mumbai 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at   wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  