-- Reliance Said to Cut Offshore Oil Output After Drop in Pressure
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2010-10-01T12:26:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/reliance-industries-said-to-cut-offshore-oil-output-after-drop-in-pressure.html
  Reliance Industries Ltd .,  India ’s
most valuable company, cut crude oil output at an offshore field
by 29 percent after wells were unable to sustain a higher rate
of production, a person familiar with the matter said.  The Mumbai-based explorer has been producing about 22,000
barrels a day of crude oil from the MA field for about two
months because of a drop in pressure, compared with about 31,000
barrels a day in April, the person said, declining to be
identified because he isn’t authorized to speak to the media.  The oil field is part of the KG-D6 block, India’s biggest
natural gas producing area, where full output of the cleaner-
burning fuel has been delayed because of inadequate pressure.
Reliance shares have declined 8 percent this year compared with
a 17 percent increase in the benchmark Sensitive Index.  The explorer is studying the pressure at the oil and gas
reservoir, the person said. Manoj Warrier, a Mumbai-based
spokesman for Reliance, declined to comment when reached on his
mobile phone today. S.K. Srivastava, directorate general of
hydrocarbons, the oil regulator, didn’t answer calls made to his
mobile phone seeking comment.  Reliance produced 304,349 tons of crude oil from the area
in the three months ended June 30, according to a July 27
 statement . That’s equivalent to an average 26,700 barrels a day.  Reliance expects to reach peak gas production from KG-D6 as
late as 2012, two people with knowledge of the plan said July 27,
at least two years behind schedule. Gas production will remain
at the current level until Reliance completes a review of the
reservoir and the company’s safety procedures, Chief Financial
Officer Alok Agarwal said July 27, declining to give a timeline
for increasing output.  The field currently produces about 60 million cubic meters
of gas a day and is expected by the company to reach peak output
of 80 million cubic meters a day.  Reliance shares gained 2.2 percent to 1,007.90 rupees in
Mumbai trading today compared with a 1.9 percent increase in the
key Sensitive Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 