-- Rendell Says He'd Like to Succeed Emanuel, Not Expecting Offer From Obama
-- B y   P a t r i c k   O ’ C o n n o r
-- 2010-10-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/rendell-says-he-d-like-to-succeed-emanuel-not-expecting-offer-from-obama.html
Pennsylvania Governor  Ed Rendell  says
he’d love to replace  Rahm Emanuel  as  Barack Obama ’s next chief
of staff, while allowing that he may be the last person the
president would pick for the job.  “If I were president, I am not sure that I would offer Ed
Rendell the job of chief of staff,” Rendell said during an
interview yesterday on Bloomberg Television’s “Political
Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend.  “I am a free spirit. I tell the truth, and I like to mix
it up. And that is not the Obama administration’s modus
operandi, to say the least,” Rendell said hours after Obama
announced his choice of senior adviser  Pete Rouse  to serve as
interim chief of staff.  While Rendell, 66, said it’s “the only job” he’d be
interested in, there are reasons the governor might not be the
best fit for White House chief of staff. In the same interview,
Rendell criticized Obama and his administration for being “out-
spun” by Republicans on the stimulus and health care, and said
congressional Democrats were “too scared” to seize the
advantage in the fight over tax cuts by scheduling a vote before
the midterm elections.  Democrats are fighting to preserve their majorities in the
House and Senate in the Nov. 2 elections. Rendell said Democrats
are starting to turn things around in the final push.  Tide Turning  “The tide is starting” to turn, Rendell said. “Democrats
are finally getting a little backbone, and they are talking
about the good things we have done and the difficulties ahead
for the country if Republicans control either one of the
chambers.”  Republican strategist  Vin Weber , a former congressman from
Minnesota, agreed that Democrats will close the gap in the final
weeks before the election, while predicting that Republicans
will score “big wins” in governorships, capture the House, and
come close to winning the Senate.  “We have seen such a huge gap between Republican
enthusiasm and Democratic enthusiasm, and I have to believe, as
you get closer to the election, the Democrats get a little bit
more excited,” Weber, 58, said in a separate “Political
Capital” interview. “But the major dynamics of this election I
think are in place and I think it means a Republican House.”  Weber said it wouldn’t be a vote of confidence for
Republicans and instead would be “thumbs down on Obama, thumbs
down on the liberal agenda, not so much personally on the
president.”  Republicans need a net gain of 10 seats to take control of
the Senate, and 39 seats to win a House majority.  Palin Frontrunner  With some eyes already turning to the race for the
Republican presidential nomination in 2012, Weber, an ally of
Minnesota Governor  Tim Pawlenty , said former Alaska Governor
 Sarah Palin  will emerge from this cycle as the frontrunner,
should she decide to run.  “I still don’t think she is going to run, but she is
surely, at the end of this cycle, going to be in a position to
enter the race as the frontrunner,” he said.  Democrats are in trouble because they let Republicans
define their message during the early days of the Obama
presidency, Rendell said.  “We didn’t seize the initiative,” Rendell said. “We sat
back. We let them sort of define the stimulus in the minds” of
Americans. “We let them define health care,” he said.  Congressional Democrats missed an opportunity to gain a
foothold in the tax fight by failing to hold a vote on expiring
Bush-era cuts before the election.  ‘Too Scared’  “We were too scared,” Rendell said.  Congress left town this week without voting on a series of
tax cuts that expire at the end of the year. Dozens of Democrats
who face the prospect of defeat in November balked at voting on
a plan to extend the bulk of the tax cuts while rescinding those
for the top 2 percent of wage earners.  House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  and other Democrats argued that
a vote would give those lawmakers their best chance to frame the
fight before the election. In the end, wavering Democrats won
out, and both chambers left town without a vote.  “Our guys were too afraid of the rhetoric,” Rendell said.
“They assume that people will say, ‘Oh, you raised taxes.’”  Republicans also captured the message about Obama’s $814
billion economic-stimulus plan by defining the measure before
Democrats could, Rendell said. They seized on parts of the plan
and “blew it up way out of proportion,” he said.  “We didn’t answer back,” Rendell continued. “We have
been out-spun by a bunch of people who have no regard for the
truth.”  Promoting Stimulus  The governor, who is completing the final year of his
second term, said Democrats should be talking about all the
things they’ve done to create jobs during the last two years,
including the stimulus.  Rendell said Democrats should talk about job-creation plans
beyond the stimulus, such as a recently passed small business
bill and the $50 billion Obama has proposed to rebuild roads,
airports and railways.  “We have the best plans to create jobs as we go ahead, and
I think our candidates should be talking about that,” he said.
Even the stimulus helped stem job losses, Rendell said.  “It certainly wasn’t perfect, but I think it has created
jobs and it has certainly helped retain jobs,” he said.  Whatever the outcome in November, the big fight next year
may come over balancing the budget.  The Republicans’ plan to cut 21 percent from government
programs, excluding defense and homeland security, “politically
is not quite that easy,” Weber said. And spending cuts alone
aren’t enough to do the job, he said.  “The real solution to the long-term problem, as you well
know, comes down to three things, maybe four: Medicare, Social
Security, taxes, maybe defense,” he said.  “What we ought to be doing is restraining the growth of
those entitlement programs, both so that we can do what we need
to in terms of the budget and so that we don’t have to
completely decimate some of the other programs government spends
money on, like biomedical research,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Patrick O’Connor  in Washington at 
 poconnor14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  