-- Rental Income on Asia-Bound Mideast Supertankers Plunge as Supply Rises
-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 2010-10-01T16:17:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/rental-income-on-asia-bound-mideast-supertankers-plunge-as-supply-rises.html
Rental income  from shipping Middle
East crude oil to Asia, the world’s busiest route for
supertankers, posted the biggest weekly slump in six weeks as
ships for hire outnumbered cargoes.  Daily returns on the industry’s benchmark Saudi Arabia-to-
Japan route fell 13 percent to $6,427 today, according to the
London-based Baltic Exchange today. The drop extended this
week’s slide to 27 percent. Today was the 28th straight day
earnings have been below the $11,601 that Drewry Shipping
Consultants Ltd. estimates ships need to pay running costs.  “The odds of any recovery in the near future look somewhat
long,” London-based  E.A. Gibson Shipbrokers Ltd.  said in an e-
mailed report today. “Enquiry remains on the light side, rates
remain dragging along the bottom with no encouragement or signs
of improvement as tonnage continues to build.”  A  surplus of ships  in the region expanded to 28 percent as
of Sept. 28 from 20 percent a week earlier, according to
Bloomberg News surveys of owners and brokers.  The exchange’s benchmark  Worldscale rate  on the Saudi
Arabia-to-Japan route slipped 0.9 percent to 45.99 points. The
price is used to settle freight derivatives. Rental income is
then calculated by subtracting fuel and port costs, meaning
returns and the Worldscale rate tend not to move in alignment.  Worldscale points are a percentage of a nominal rate, or
flat rate, for more than 320,000 specific routes. Flat rates for
every voyage, quoted in U.S. dollars a ton, are revised annually
by the  Worldscale Association  in London to reflect changing fuel
costs, port tariffs and exchange rates.  Each flat rate assessment gives owners and oil companies a
starting point for negotiating hire rates without having to
calculate the value of each deal from scratch.  The  Baltic Dirty Tanker Index , a wider measure of crude oil
transportation costs, fell 0.3 percent to 684 points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alaric Nightingale  in London at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 