-- Sinopec to Invest $7.1 Billion in Repsol's Brazil Unit
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2010-10-01T16:12:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/repsol-to-sell-a-7-1-billion-stake-in-brazil-unit-to-china-petrochemical.html
China Petrochemical Corp. , the
country’s second-largest oil and gas producer, will invest $7.1
billion in  Repsol YPF SA ’s Brazilian unit as the Spanish oil
company raises funds to develop offshore projects.  Sinopec Group, as the company is known, will buy new shares
in the Brazilian unit and will hold 40 percent of that division
after the capital increase, Madrid-based Repsol said today in a
statement. Shares in Repsol, which previously planned an initial
public offering of the unit, jumped to a two-year high.  The acquisition is the second-largest overseas purchase by
a Chinese company as the world’s biggest energy consumer snaps
up fields to meet surging demand. Repsol has stakes in blocks in
Brazil’s Santos and Espirito Santo basins and plans to invest as
much as $14 billion there through 2019. It estimates the Guara
and Carioca fields may hold as much as 3 billion barrels.  “China’s increased reliance on imported oil is prompting
state companies to accelerate the hunt for resources globally,”
said  Wang Aochao , head of energy research at UOB-Kay Hian Ltd.
in Shanghai. “The trend is set to continue as the country’s
fast economic growth won’t stop.”  Repsol  climbed  5 percent to close at 19.83 euros in Madrid,
a two-year high, giving the company a market value of 24 billion
euros ($33 billion).  The valuation of the transaction announced today is
“surprisingly high,” Banco BPI SA analysts  Bruno Silva ,  Flora Trindade  and Gonzalo Sanchez-Bordona wrote in a research note.
They have a “buy/accumulate” rating on Repsol shares.  Addax Purchase  Sinopec Group’s investment in Repsol’s Brazilian unit is
China’s largest overseas oil deal since the C$8.3 billion ($8
billion) purchase of  Addax Petroleum Corp .  Sinopec Group  bought
 Addax  last year to gain oil reserves in Iraq’s Kurdistan and
West Africa.  Cnooc Ltd.,  China’s biggest offshore oil explorer, agreed
in March to buy a 50 percent stake in Argentine producer Bridas
Corp. for $3.1 billion to meet demand in the world’s fastest-
growing major economy.  PetroChina Co.  in December won approval
from the Canadian government to buy a stake in two Alberta oil-
sands projects for C$1.9 billion.  Statoil ASA , Norway’s largest oil and natural gas company,
in May agreed to sell a 40 percent stake in the Brazilian
offshore Peregrino field to China’s Sinochem Group for $3.07
billion in cash.  Brazilian Business  Repsol, Spain’s biggest oil company, had also considered a
plan to sell about 40 percent of the Brazilian business through
an IPO. Repsol now will not be selling shares in the Brazilian
unit to the public, Madrid-based spokesman  Kristian Rix  said.  “For us, Brazil was way too large,” Repsol’s Chief
Operating Officer  Miguel Martinez  said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television. “Obtaining a partner was a move that was
necessary.” Repsol and Sinopec may work together in other areas
in the future, he said.  Since 2007, Repsol and partners  BG Group Plc  and Brazil’s
 Petroleo Brasileiro SA  have found hydrocarbons in the offshore
Carioca, Guara and Iguacu fields in the Santos Basin’s BM-S-9
block. They are ultra-deep deposits beneath a salt layer under
the seabed.  Largest Find  Petrobras, as the Brazilian state-controlled company is
known, estimated in November 2007 that the Santos Basin’s pre-
salt Tupi field may contain as many as 8 billion barrels of oil,
the largest find in the Americas since Mexico’s Cantarell field
in 1976. Repsol doesn’t own a stake in Tupi.  The investment by Sinopec comes after  Petrobras  last week
completed the world’s largest share sale, raising about $70
billion.  Shares of other energy companies with stakes in Brazilian
offshore projects also advanced today after the Sinopec
investment in the Repsol unit was announced.  Galp Energia SGPS
SA  rose as much as 7.8 percent in Lisbon, while  BG Group Plc 
climbed as much as 5.8 percent in London.  “This puts a hefty valuation on reserves in Brazil,” said
 Peter Hitchens , an analyst at Panmure Gordon & Co. in London.
“It could read through into BG’s assets.”  Repsol wants to invest in exploration in  Brazil ’s offshore
Santos Basin and elsewhere to increase reserves and output,
while trying to reduce exposure to mature fields in  Argentina .
The company forecasts annual production growth of as much as 4
percent through 2014 as projects in Brazil and Peru come on
stream. Repsol plans to invest a total of 28.5 billion euros in
the period.  Oil and gas production at Repsol’s upstream division, which
doesn’t include Argentine unit YPF, was unchanged from a year
earlier at 340,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day in the second
quarter. Output from Buenos Aires-based YPF, of which Repsol
owns 84 percent, fell 7 percent to 556,000 barrels a day as
fields matured.  The Spanish company wants to sell part of its holding in
YPF “sooner rather than later,” Chief Executive Officer
 Antonio Brufau  said on April 29. In 2008 Repsol delayed a public
offering of a stake in YPF.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joao Lima  in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 