-- Republican Pledge to Cut $100 Billion May Hit Education, Cancer Research
-- B y   P a t r i c k   O ’ C o n n o r
-- 2010-10-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/republican-pledge-on-spending-freeze-would-slash-budget-by-100-billion.html
U.S. House Republicans’  pledge  to cut
$100 billion from the federal budget next year would slash
spending for education, cancer research and aid to local police
and firefighters.  Keeping the midterm-campaign promise would require a
Republican-led Congress to cut 21 percent of the $477 billion
lawmakers have earmarked for domestic discretionary spending.  “That’s where you get the savings,” said Representative
 Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin Republican who would likely be chairman
of the  Budget Committee  if his party regained its majority in
the Nov. 2 elections.  A cut of that magnitude would necessitate major reductions
in spending likely to spur protests across many fronts, and
Republican leaders have refused to specify any major targets
before Election Day. Most of the proposals Republicans have
offered so far provide minimal savings, like shaving $2 billion
from the budget by capping federal salaries next year.  Still, Republicans argue that spending cuts trump tax
increases as the best way to start balancing the budget in the
wake of the worst recession since the Great Depression.  “To  balance  the budget, Congress has to get its arms
around the spending here in Washington, and we have to have a
healthy economy that gets Americans working again,” House
Republican Leader  John Boehner  told an  audience  yesterday at the
 American Enterprise Institute , a Washington-based group that
favors smaller government. “You can’t have a healthy economy if
you raise taxes on those that you expect to reinvest in the
economy and hire more people.”  Social Services  Democrats warn that the promised cuts would lead to
dramatic reductions in social services across the board.  “This would have significant real-world consequences,”
said Representative  Rob Andrews , a New Jersey Democrat on the
Budget Committee. “I don’t see any way there isn’t a hit on
college students,” he said. “I don’t see any way there isn’t
some hit on local police and fire.”  Republicans have made their task even harder by taking
military spending off the table along with any programs for
seniors or veterans.  Under the Republican plan, the budget resolution would set
spending at 2008 levels, lawmakers said. While cutting the $100
billion needed to meet that pledge would force deep cuts, they
have steered away from a specific plan for it.  “I’m a budgeteer,” Ryan said. “I just bring down the
cap.”  Potential Firing Range  The Republican pledge to trim $100 billion from
discretionary spending puts many programs, such as public
education and cancer research, on a potential firing range:  President  Barack Obama  has requested $73.4 billion for the
 Department of Education  next year. That request includes $23
billion for  Pell Grants  to help low-income students afford
college, a 32 percent increase from this year.  The money also funds special education programs, block
grants to school districts and $2 billion in adult education.  A 21 percent cut across the board would take about $15
billion from education. A 21 percent cut in Pell Grants would
take almost $5 billion from student tuition.  The Obama administration has asked Congress for $76.4
billion for the Department of  Health and Human Services  next
year. Almost half that -- $32 billion -- is for the National
Institutes of Health, which includes the National Cancer
Institute and other research facilities.  A 21 percent cut at the  National Institutes of Health  would
take about $6 billion from health research.  Centers for Disease Control  The president’s proposal includes $6.6 billion for the
 Centers for Disease Control , $5.1 billion to help low-income
households pay their energy bills and $8.2 billion for meals for
low-income children and other aid through the  Head Start 
program.  In aid to local governments, Congress sets aside money for
local law enforcement through  Justice Assistance Grants . Police
departments can use the money for equipment and personnel and
any other crime-prevention programs. Lawmakers have requested
about $2 billion next year for the office that allocates that.  A 21 percent cut would take $400 million from police.  Within the overall federal budget of $3.6 trillion,
entitlements such as Social Security and Medicare, requirements
such as payment of the national debt and discretionary spending
on defense consume most of the money. Less than $500 billion is
allocated for discretionary spending outside of defense.  Programs that saw big increases under Obama could be
particularly vulnerable in a Republican-run House of
Representatives.  National Cancer Institute  The president’s request for the National Cancer Institute
is up 10 percent from where it was in 2008.  Spending requests this year for  Transportation  and  Housing
and Urban Development  rose by 38 percent from 2008, up $18.6
billion to $67.4 billion. Likewise, Democrats sought a 47
percent increase for diplomatic spending next year.  Representative  Eric Cantor  of Virginia, the No. 2
Republican in the House, set up a website called “ YouCut ” that
encouraged Internet users to propose and vote on specific cuts.  Ideas include selling excess federal property and
forbidding the administration to advertise stimulus projects,
which would save “tens of millions,” according to Cantor’s
website. Others that would produce much bigger savings, like
revamping Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, are politically difficult
to enact.  Other lawmakers offer broader cuts, like Republican Arizona
Representative  Jeff Flake , who favors major cuts to farm
subsidies through the  Department of Agriculture .  Tax Collectors  Cutting some budgets can be counterproductive, said  Scott Lilly , former Democratic staff director of the House
 Appropriations Committee . If the Internal Revenue Service is
forced to cut tax collectors or agencies reduce the number of
people who audit federal spending, the government could lose
more revenue than it would save through budget cuts, he said.  Republicans would protect money for the military and
operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. By offering explicit
protections for seniors, programs like  Meals on Wheels  and low-
income housing grants could also be off-limits.  Republicans want to revamp the spending process in other
ways to give lawmakers more license to strip individual programs
from individual government agencies.  Boehner offered a plan yesterday to break the spending
bills up so that money for the Labor Department isn’t coupled,
for example, with funding for Health and Human Services.  ‘On Their Own Merit’  “Let them come to the floor individually, to be judged on
their own merit,” he said at the American Enterprise Institute.
“Members shouldn’t have to vote for big increases at the
Commerce Department just because they support NASA.”  The pledge that Boehner announced in September includes a
proposal giving individual members of both parties more
discretion to cut money from spending bills as they are being
debated on the floor of the chamber.  The fight would play out during an expected post-election
debate over curtailing the federal deficit, projected at $1.34
trillion this year. Democrats charge Republicans with hypocrisy
for championing budget cuts as they push for an extension of
Bush-era tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans that could cost
$41.1 billion next year.  “It will have a serious impact on real people, but it
won’t have a serious impact on reducing the deficit,” Andrews
said of the Republican pledge for budget-cutting.  Obama said in June, during a meeting with other heads of
state in Toronto, that he hoped “some of these folks who are
hollering about deficits and debt step up because I’m calling
their bluff.”  Even Republicans acknowledge that spending cuts alone won’t
balance the budget.  “Let’s face it: We could zero out both the Department of
Defense and zero out the Department of Education, and we’d still
have a massive structural debt that we’ve barely made a dent
in,” said Representative  Jeb Hensarling , a Texas Republican.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick O’Connor  in Washington at 
 poconnor14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  