-- Republican Scott Leads Sink in Florida Governor's Race, Survey Indicates
-- B y   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u
-- 2010-10-01T10:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/republican-scott-leads-sink-in-florida-governor-s-race-survey-indicates.html
Florida  Republican  Rick Scott , a
former hospital executive, leads Democrat  Alex Sink , the state’s
chief financial officer, in the race for governor as voters sour
on Democrats in Washington, according to a new survey.  Scott leads Sink 49 percent to 43 percent among likely
voters, the  Quinnipiac University Polling Institute  said today.
Scott, 58, appeared to be helped by advertising that ties Sink
to President  Barack Obama , the Hamden, Connecticut-based survey
group said. Scott refers to Sink, 62, as an “Obamacrat.”  “The president’s low ratings, especially among
independents who are likely to decide the governor’s race, are a
problem for Ms. Sink’s campaign,” said  Peter A. Brown ,
assistant director of the institute. The telephone survey of
1,151 likely voters showed 56 percent disapproved of Obama’s job
performance while 40 percent approved.  Scott, a political newcomer who spent almost $40 million to
secure his party’s nomination last month, was favored as the
candidate most likely to be able to rebuild the state’s  economy ,
the survey said. Scott would do a better job, according to 48
percent of respondents, compared with 39 percent who said Sink
was more capable.  Scott started  Solantic Corp. , a Jacksonville-based operator
of urgent-care health centers in 2001. He also led Columbia/HCA
HealthCare Corp., which at one time owned at least 100
hospitals. Sink became the state’s finance chief after winning
her first election in 2006. Previously, she was  Bank of America
Corp. ’s Florida president, overseeing about 9,000 employees.  Independents Favor Scott  Among voters who said they aren’t tied to any political
party, Scott led Sink 46 percent to 40 percent. More than half,
56 percent, said they disapproved of Obama’s job performance
compared with 38 percent who approved.  Yesterday, Quinnipiac released a  survey  of likely voters
that said Republican  Marco Rubio  was leading Governor  Charlie Crist , running as an independent, in the race for a U.S. Senate
seat representing Florida. Respondents in that poll favored
Rubio 46 percent to 33 percent for Crist, a former Republican.  Last month, a Quinnipiac  survey  of registered voters, not
just those who indicated they planned to go to the polls on Nov.
2, put Sink ahead with 33 percent support compared with Scott’s
29 percent. It was taken before the Aug. 24 primary election.  Today’s survey, which has a margin of error of plus or
minus 2.9 percentage points, was conducted from Sept. 23-28,
Quinnipiac said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simone Baribeau  in Miami at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 