-- German Retail Sales Unexpectedly Fell a Second Month in August
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2010-10-01T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/retail-sales-unexpectedly-fell-a-second-month-in-august-as-consumers-save.html
Retail sales  in Germany, Europe’s
largest economy, unexpectedly declined for a second month in
August.  Sales, adjusted for inflation and seasonal swings, fell 0.2
percent from July, when they dropped a revised 0.4 percent, the
Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said in an e-mailed
statement today. Economists forecast a gain of 0.4 percent, the
median of 14 estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey  showed. In the
year,  sales  increased 2.2 percent.  “The monthly retail data are quite volatile and the only
explanation could be that people saved their money because of
the uncertainty about the global economy,” said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Group in Brussels. “Germans have
more money in their pockets and the outlook is good.”  German  unemployment  declined for a 15th straight month in
September as carmakers and other manufacturers boosted hiring to
meet export-led demand. Business and consumer confidence are
both at three-year highs after the economy grew at record pace
in the second quarter. While growth is forecast to moderate, the
Federal Labor Agency’s IAB research institute expects
unemployment to drop to a nine-year low in 2011.  Consumer spending increased 0.6 percent in the second
quarter, its first gain in a year. Household spending will
“continue to pick up” due to the improving labor market and
the “quite optimistic mood of consumers,” the Bundesbank said
Sep. 20.  The German Retail Federation raised its outlook for 2010
retail sales on Sept. 23, projecting growth of 1.5 percent after
previously forecasting stagnation.  The IG Metall union said yesterday it secured a 3.6 percent
wage increase for 85,000 steel workers at companies such as
 ThyssenKrupp AG  and  Salzgitter AG .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gabi Thesing  in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  