-- Cogent Holders Should Reject 3M Bid, Proxy Firm Says
-- B y   W i l l   D a l e y
-- 2010-10-01T20:16:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/riskmetrics-recommends-cogent-holders-not-tender-into-3m-offer.html
Cogent Inc.  investors should reject
3M Co.’s $943 million buyout because the offer is too low and
the maker of fingerprint-identification systems didn’t pursue
other bids, proxy adviser RiskMetrics Group Inc. said. Cogent
rose the most in a month in Nasdaq trading.  When NEC Corp. offered more than $1 billion, Cogent’s board
didn’t provide the Japanese company “a reasonable period to
complete its due diligence,” according to a court filing by
Cogent investors that was unsealed yesterday at the request of
Bloomberg News.  A group of Cogent investors said at a hearing today that
they want Chancery Court Judge Donald F. Parsons to halt the
sale to 3M, and force Cogent to eliminate deal protections they
say are precluding a firm offer from NEC, Japan’s largest maker
of personal computers. Cogent has refused to engage with
shareholders, RiskMetrics said in a report to clients yesterday.  That “seems by itself to draw into question how defensible
this deal might be,” the proxy adviser said.  Parsons said at the hearing in Wilmington, Delaware, that
he’ll rule before  3M’s  offer expires at midnight, Oct. 7.  NEC Bid  The bid from NEC came too late, wasn’t firm enough and
would pose antitrust risks, Cogent’s attorney Donald J. Wolfe
said at the hearing today.  Donna Fleming Runyon , a spokeswoman for St. Paul,
Minnesota-based 3M, didn’t respond to requests for comment.
Cogent Chief Executive Officer  Ming Hsieh  didn’t return a call
asking for comment.  Cogent, based in Pasadena, California, rose 19 cents, or
1.8 percent, to $10.83 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading, the steepest gain since Sept. 1. 3M gained 91
cents to $87.62 in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading .  3M, the maker of  products  including anti-counterfeiting
laminates, agreed Aug. 30 to buy Cogent for $10.50 a share. The
offer includes about $513 million in acquired cash.  The company wants to add Cogent to its  security-systems
unit , whose products include document issuance systems for IDs,
passports, and visas; and security materials, such as laminates,
to protect against counterfeiting and tampering.  Cogent CEO Hsieh, the largest holder with a 39 percent
stake, according to a filing dated May 13, has agreed to tender
his holdings. 3M needs 50 percent plus one share for the deal to
go through, according to RiskMetrics.  Breakup Fee  “The questionable process which left potentially higher
bids unpursued,” the valuation of the 3M offer, and Cogent’s
“unusually high,” breakup fee of $28 million are factors
leading RiskMetrics to recommend Cogent shareholders not tender
their stock, the adviser, a unit of MSCI Inc., wrote.  Cogent began discussions with possible buyers in the first
half of 2008 and, through Credit Suisse Securities, approached
27 possible acquirers, including 3M, according to a Sept. 10
regulatory filing by Cogent. Talks with 3M ended in September
2008 as the global economy deteriorated.  “When the company restarted discussion with potential
strategic acquirers in mid-2009, it elected to proceed without a
full auction process,” RiskMetrics said. “The proposed merger
resulted from targeted discussions with only six parties.  Court Filing  Cogent identified one of those as Company D, which
yesterday’s court filing by Cogent investors identified as NEC
Corp. On Aug. 17, Company D showed a “preliminary, non-binding
indication of interest” in the range of $11 to $12 a share,
according to Cogent’s September filing.  Cogent’s board, concerned with potential regulatory
approval issues that could affect the timing and certainty of
closing a transaction with Company D, chose 3M, according to the
filing.  After Cogent announced the 3M deal, three of Cogent’s
biggest investors said the bid was too low. Iridian Asset
Management LLC, the fourth-largest investor as of June 30, and
Corbyn Investment Management Inc., the eighth-largest, said in
September that Cogent was worth more than 3M’s $10.50-a-share
bid. Pointer Capital, which with affiliate Atlantic Investment
Co. holds the third-largest stake, made a similar comment
earlier.  3M is paying a 17 percent premium for Cogent, when averaged
over the 20 days before the announcement, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with an average of 24
percent of similar deals for ID system companies in the U.S.
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Will Daley  in New York at 
 wdaley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  