-- RMB Lowers Its Year-End Rand Forecast to 7 a Dollar on FDI, Bond Purchases
-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 2010-10-01T08:42:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/rmb-lowers-year-end-rand-forecast-to-7-per-dollar-on-fdi-bond-purchases.html
Rand Merchant Bank, the investment
banking arm of  FirstRand Ltd. , lowered its year-end estimate for
the rand to 7 per dollar, from an earlier forecast of 8, Head of
Foreign Exchange Research  John Cairns  wrote in a research note.  Potential for “massive” foreign direct investment into
South Africa and “unprecedented” inflows into the country’s
bond market led to the revision, according Johannesburg-based
RMB.  “These factors suggest that the rand will remain stronger
for longer than we originally thought,” Cairns wrote in the
note today.  The currency appreciated as much as 0.7 percent to 6.9339
per dollar and traded 0.3 percent stronger at 6.9650 by 9:45
a.m. in Johannesburg, from a previous close of 6.9830.  The rand has rallied 35 percent against the dollar since
the start of last year as near-zero interest rates in developed
nations encouraged investors to borrow cheaply and invest in
higher-yielding markets. Attracted by South Africa’s 6 percent
 central bank rate , net foreign inflows into the country’s bond
market have reached 81.48 billion rand this year, based on data
from  JSE Ltd. , the company that runs the country’s exchanges.  RMB estimates an additional $8 billion of foreign
investment could flow into South Africa from deals that include
HSBC Holdings Plc’s proposed buyout of  Nedbank Group Ltd. ,
Nippon Telegraph & Telephone Corp.’s purchase of Dimension Data
Plc and Wal-Mart Stores Inc.’s offer for Massmart Holdings Ltd.  Even so, the bank expects the rand to weaken to 7.25 per
dollar by the end of the second quarter of next year and 7.75 by
the end of 2011, Cairns wrote in the research note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  