-- Romania to Choose Managers for Share Sale in OMV Petrom by End of the Year
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2010-10-01T13:45:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/romania-to-choose-managers-for-share-sale-in-omv-petrom-by-end-of-the-year.html
Romania plans to pick managers by the
end of this year to broker the sale of a 9.8 percent stake in
 OMV Petrom SA , the country’s largest oil company, delaying a
transaction into 2011, an Economy Ministry official said today.  The selection, which former Economy Minister  Adriean Videanu  had wanted to complete by September, will push the
offering on the Bucharest Stock Exchange into next year as the
broker needs “at least a few weeks” to prepare the documents
to meet exchange rules.  “We are in the process of selecting managers for the share
sale,” deputy Economy Minister Claudiu Stafie said in a phone
interview from Bucharest. “We hope to finalize the selection by
the end of the year and then the broker will advise us which is
the best moment for the sale.”  Romania plans to sell minority stakes in its utilities and
of energy producers to raise investment funds and attract
foreign capital. The country is relying on a 20 billion-euro
($27 billion) bailout led by the International Monetary Fund
after recession and austerity measures reduced budget revenue.  Preparing an already listed company for a new share sale is
“the longest” part of the transaction process, Bucharest Stock
Exchange Chief Executive Officer  Valentin Ionescu  said today in
a phone interview. “It’s in our interest to speed up the
procedure.”  Capital Increase  The government, which owns 20.6 percent of OMV Petrom,
wants to use all or part of the cash it gets from the 9.8
percent sale of shares and then spend it to participate in a
capital increase in Petrom being arranged by the company’s
majority owner OMV AG in Vienna, Videanu said on Aug. 5.  The government is participating in the capital increase so
as not to dilute its holdings further and wants to remain a
significant shareholder, Videanu said. Videanu left the
government on Sept. 3 in a Cabinet shuffle.  Petrom wants to raise as much as 600 million euros
($825 million) by selling shares before the end of April to
maintain funds for investments, estimated at 6.9 billion lei
($2.2 billion) this year and at as much as 1.5 billion euros
over the next years, the company said on April 30.  OMV’s Chief Executive Officer  Wolfgang Ruttenstorfer  said
on Aug. 4 that the company will wait for the government’s
decision on selling part of its stake before considering
carrying out a capital increase at Petrom.  Petrom was  first listed  on the exchange in 2001. OMV bought
a 51 percent stake in 2004. Petrom shares fell 0.3 percent to
0.339 lei at 3:19 p.m. in Bucharest, valuing the company at 19.3
billion lei.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Irina Savu  in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez in Prague at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  