-- Workflow, ASR, Tronox, Nortel, Lehman: Bankruptcy
-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2010-10-01T12:24:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/tronox-nortel-lehman-brothers-schutt-almatis-value-city-bankruptcy.html
Workflow Management Inc., a provider
of promotional marketing services and printed business
documents, filed a Chapter 11 petition late in the day on Sept.
29, possibly aiming to use cramdown on a holder of first- and
second-lien debt who was blocking an out-of-court restructuring.  Dayton, Ohio-based Workflow, whose holding company is based
in Norfolk, Virginia, owes $146.5 million on first-lien debt,
including $30.2 million on a revolving credit and $111.5 million
on a term loan. The second-lien debt is $196.5 million. The
petition, filed in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Norfolk, said assets
and debt both exceed $100 million.  Workflow said in a court filing that the company needed
Chapter 11 relief in view of amortization payments on secured
debt and the inability to refinance. The company said one
creditor has a controlling position on the second-lien debt and
recently acquired a position on the first-lien obligations. The
creditor wouldn’t consent to restructuring.  Workflow filed a proposed Chapter 11 plan where the
creditor holding both first- and second-lien debt would be
placed into its classes by itself. Creditors holding only first-
or second-lien obligations are classified separately.  The plan says that all secured creditors would retain their
liens and be paid in full with deferred cash payments. An
exhibit to the plan said that the terms of the new first-lien
debt are yet to be determined.  For the second-lien credit, holders would be given a new 4
1/2-year secured note bearing interest at 12 percent, with 10
percent paid in cash and the remainder in new notes. The new
second-lien debt could be redeemed by the company before
maturity.  The plan calls for giving unsecured creditors 50 percent in
cash on confirmation with the remainder two months later without
interest.  Workflow generated about $600 million revenue in 2009. The
company has 49 offices, 17 distribution centers and nine plants.
Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
in 2009 were about $60 million, according to a court filing.  The case is Workflow Management Inc., 10-74617, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Norfolk).  Updates  Tronox Shareholders Withdraw Competing Reorganization Plan    Tronox Inc ., the world’s third-largest producer of the
white pigment titanium dioxide, won’t face a competing
reorganization plan sponsored by the official equity committee.  The shareholders withdrew their plan on Sept. 29. If they
hadn’t, there would have been a hearing yesterday where
shareholders would have sought approval of a disclosure
statement explaining their plan.  Yesterday the bankruptcy judge formally approved the
disclosure statement for Tronox’s own plan. The judge had
tentatively approved the disclosure statement at a hearing in
September. The confirmation hearing is now formally scheduled
for Nov. 17.  Tronox’s revised plan is financed in part by a $185 million
backstopped rights offering. To read about the equity
committee’s withdrawn plan and Tronox’s plan, click here for the
Sept. 7 Bloomberg bankruptcy report. For details on Tronox’s
plan, click here for the Sept. 2 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  The Chapter 11 petition by Tronox in January 2009 listed
assets of $1.56 billion against debt totaling $1.22 billion.
Debt includes $213 million on a secured term loan and revolving
credit, $350 million in 9.5 percent senior notes, and a $40.7
million accounts receivable securitization facility. Tronox’s
products are used in paints, coatings, plastics, paper and
consumer products. The operations outside of the U.S. didn’t
file.  The case is In re Tronox Inc., 09-10156, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of  New York    Manhattan ).  American Safety Razor Auction Overturned by Judge  American Safety Razor Co., the fourth-largest maker of wet-
shaving blades, has the distinction of being one of the few
reorganizing companies whose bankruptcy judge rejected the
results of an auction.  At a hearing yesterday, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary F.
Walrath read her ruling into the record from the bench and
directed ASR to hold another auction, this time permitting bids
from  Energizer Holdings Inc ., the maker of Schick shavers. ASR
didn’t allow Energizer to bid at a previously scheduled auction,
claiming antitrust concerns might scotch a sale and slow the
disposition of the business.  ASR contended that Energizer didn’t make a so-called
qualified bid because antitrust regulators could slow down or
block an acquisition.  To read Bloomberg coverage of the hearing, click here.  If the results of the prior auction had been allowed to
stand, the business would have been sold to secured lenders in
exchange for $244.4 million owing on the first-lien revolving
credit and term loan. Energizer would have offered $301 million
cash.  Second-lien creditors, owed $178.1 million, supported the
idea of holding another auction where Energizer could bid.
Walrath said the process at the first auction “has not been
fair.” Walrath also questioned whether ASR had been correct in
demanding that Energizer make a non-refundable deposit.  When ASR filed under Chapter 11 in July, the company said
it would give second-lien creditors an opportunity to devise a
plan more favorable than swapping the business for the first-
lien debt.  Mezzanine lenders are owed $60 million on an obligation
that pays in kind.  The agent for the first-lien lenders is  UBS AG . ASR had
revenue of $330 million in 2009.  ASR, based in Cedar Knolls,  New Jersey , has U.S. plants in
Virginia and Tennessee. Affiliates abroad aren’t in bankruptcy.
It was acquired for $625 million in July 2006 by London-based
Lion Capital LLP.  ASR has the largest market share for private-label blades,
although only 8 percent when branded goods are included,
according to Moody’s Investors Service.  The case is In re American Safety Razor Co., 10-12351, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Ericsson Raises Price and Buys Nortel Switch Business    Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson  was authorized by the
bankruptcy judge yesterday to buy the multiservice switch
business from Nortel Networks Inc. for $65 million cash.  The opening offer at the auction held Sept. 24 was $39
million cash from PSP Holdings LLC, a company sponsored by
Marlin Equity Partners from El Segundo, California, and  Canada ’s
Samnite Technologies Inc.  The multiservice switch business permits customers to
integrate data, voice and video into one network available at
multiple locations. Nortel’s business has customers in 100
countries. Before bankruptcy, Nortel had been North America’s
largest communications equipment provider.  Nortel filed a disclosure statement in early September
explaining the liquidating Chapter 11 plan filed in July.
Generally speaking, the plan is for full payment on secured
claims with distributions of remaining asset sale proceeds to
unsecured creditors after creditors with higher priorities are
paid in full. There would be no distributions to creditors with
subordinated claims.  There is no substantive consolidation, so recoveries will
vary depending on the Nortel company that owes a particular
debt. Eventually, the disclosure statement will include an
appendix with estimated recoveries by each class of creditors.
The estimate wasn’t included in the draft disclosure statement
filed Sept. 3.  The Toronto-based Nortel companies filed for bankruptcy
reorganization in January 2009 in the U.S., Canada, and  London .
The Nortel companies reported $11.6 billion in consolidated
assets against debt totaling $11.8 billion as of Sept. 30.
Revenue was $9.7 billion in 2007. For the first nine months of
2008, sales were $6.8 billion.  The Chapter 11 case is In re Nortel Networks Inc., 09-
10138, and the parent’s Chapter 15 case is In re Nortel Networks
Corp., 09-10164, both in U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of
Delaware (Wilmington).  Lenders Again Approved to Buy Philadelphia Newspapers  Philadelphia Newspapers LLC  once again has a confirmed
Chapter 11 plan. Secured lender for a second time were
authorized to purchase the publisher of the Philadelphia
Inquirer and Philadelphia Daily News.  The bankruptcy judge in Philadelphia approved the sale and
confirmed the revised plan at a hearing yesterday. This time,
the lenders are buying the newspapers for $105 million. Under
the original plan confirmed in June, the lenders would have paid
$139 million.  For other Bloomberg coverage, click here.  The prior sale never closed because the buyers weren’t able
to reach agreement on a new labor contract with the Teamsters
union. Another auction was held on Sept. 23 where the lenders
came out on top again, although at a lower price.  Unsecured creditors didn’t vote on the revised plan.  The revised plan, like the predecessor, carves out 2.3
percent of the stock in the new newspaper company for the
benefit of the holders of $110 million in unsecured debt claims.
The revised disclosure statement estimated that the recovery by
the class would be 1.5 percent.  The revised plan sets aside $1.09 million cash for general
unsecured creditors with claims estimated at $4.2 million.
Claims in the class could grow by $12.8 million if the claim of  McClatchy Co . is allowed. Claims in the class will increase
another $150 million if the buyer doesn’t take over pension
claims.  The recovery for general unsecured creditors will range
from 23 percent in the most favorable case to less than 1
percent, according to the disclosure statement.  The secured lenders, with claims of $318.8 million, will
receive cash left over from the sale plus the value of real
estate estimated to be worth $29.5 million. The plan required
the lenders to waive their deficiency claims.  The new auction prevented the successful bidder from
refusing to complete the acquisition.  The newspapers began a bankruptcy reorganization in
February 2009 in their hometown after defaulting on a term loan
and revolving credit totaling $296.6 million and on $98.5
million in subordinated notes.  The case in bankruptcy court is In re Philadelphia
Newspapers LLC, 09-11204, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Eastern
District of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  Innkeepers to Have Neither Examiner nor Equity Panel    Innkeepers USA Trust , a real estate investment trust, will
have neither a shareholders’ committee nor an examiner, U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Shelley C. Chapman ruled at a hearing yesterday
in Manhattan.  A group of preferred shareholders filed motions both for an
examiner and an official equity committee. Chapman denied both
motions yesterday after the conclusion of argument, according to
John D. Penn, a lawyer for secured lender Midland Loan Services
Inc. who attended the hearing.  Penn, from Haynes & Boone LLP, said that the judge approved
an agreed change in permission that Innkeepers was granted in
early September to use cash representing collateral for secured
lenders’ claims. Among other changes, a provision allowing $5.5
million of revenue to be used for paying Innkeepers’ lawyers and
other professionals was reduced to $3.4 million.  Midland is servicer for $825 million in mortgage debt on 45
of Innkeepers’ 72 properties.  In August, Chapman refused to allow Innkeepers to lock in a
deal where the new equity would have been split between the
current owner,  Apollo Investment Corp ., and Lehman Ali Inc., a
subsidiary of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. The Lehman unit has
$238 million in floating-rate mortgages on 20 properties.  Midland is hoping it will be given permission to file a
competing plan financed by selling the new stock for $236
million to Five Mile Capital Partners LLC. For details on
Innkeepers’ plan and Midland’s proposal for a competing plan,
click here for the Aug. 31 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  In total, Palm Beach, Florida-based Innkeepers has 72
extended-stay and limited-service properties with 10,000 rooms
in 20 states. Apollo acquired the company in July 2007 in a
$1.35 billion transaction. The Innkeepers petition listed assets
of $1.5 billion against debt totaling $1.52 billion.  The case is In re Innkeepers USA Trust, 10-13800, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Lehman Has Approval for New SunCal Settlement    Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc . was given authority by the
bankruptcy judge this week for a settlement allowing eventual
recovery on $395 million in loans to a property developer named
LBREP/L-SunCal Master I LLC and affiliates. A prior settlement
between Lehman and the Chapter 11 trustee for the SunCal
companies fell apart in a dispute over the interpretation of the
agreement.  The new settlement provides for SunCal to confirm a Chapter
11 plan where Lehman’s collateral will be sold. Lehman
subsidiary Lehman Commercial Paper Inc. will have the right to
bid for the properties using secured debt rather than cash. If
Lehman buys the properties and later sells them, the shortfall
will be an approved unsecured deficiency claim.  Lehman is allowing the SunCal trustee to use $5.5 million
cash from property that otherwise would be Lehman’s collateral.
From the total, $3.5 million can be used to pay expenses in the
SunCal cases, while the remainder will be for preservation of
Lehman’s collateral.  If the SunCal trustee makes recoveries from property other
than Lehman’s collateral, Lehman will take half of the incoming
funds. The remainder is earmarked for SunCal’s non-lender
creditors.  The settlement must also be approved by the bankruptcy
judge in SunCal’s own reorganization. The hearing was set for
Dec. 21.  The Lehman holding company and its non-brokerage
subsidiaries filed a revised Chapter 11 plan and disclosure
statement in April. For details, click here and here for the
April 15 and 16 Bloomberg bankruptcy reports. Lehman intends to
amend the plan in the last quarter of the year and have the plan
approved in a confirmation order by March.  The Lehman holding company filed under Chapter 11 in New
York on Sept. 15, 2008, and sold office buildings and the North
American investment banking business to London-based  Barclays
Plc  one week later. The Lehman brokerage operations went into
liquidation on Sept. 19, 2008 in the same court. The brokerage
is in the control of a trustee appointed under the Securities
Investor Protection Act.  The Lehman holding company Chapter 11 case is In re Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555, while the liquidation
proceeding under the Securities Investor Protection Act for the
brokerage operation is Securities Investors Protection Corp. v.
Lehman Brothers Inc., 08-01420, both in U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District New York (Manhattan).  Schutt Temporarily Allowed to Sell Infringing Helmets  Schutt Sports Inc., the Illinois football-helmet maker, can
continue selling DNA and ION helmets through Dec. 31 despite a
district court judgment in August that the products infringe a
patent owned by competitor Riddell Inc., the bankruptcy judge
ruled in a Sept. 29 order.  Schutt filed under Chapter 11 on Sept. 6 to halt collection
of the $29 million infringement judgment. Unless Schutt decides
to proceed in some aspect of the lawsuit, the bankruptcy judge
this week declined to allow Riddell to continue the patent suit
that’s pending in U.S. District Court in  Wisconsin . The
bankruptcy judge told Riddell it could return to bankruptcy
court for permission to proceed with the suit if conditions
change.  In the meantime, the bankruptcy judge is permitting Schutt
to continue selling the infringing helmets through yearend so
long as 6 percent of the sale price is placed into special
escrow account.  Schutt said in the Chapter 11 petition that assets and debt
both exceed $50 million.  The case is In re Schutt Sports Inc., 10- 12795, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Bankruptcy Lawyers’ Fees  Quarles & Brady Denied 95% of Fees in Las Vegas Case  Quarles & Brady LLP was denied 95 percent of the almost
$900,000 in fees that the law firm requested for representing a
company whose attempted reorganization in Chapter 11 was
converted to a liquidation in Chapter 7. U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
Bruce A. Markell in Las Vegas denied most of the fees because he
found the services “did nothing to bring value into the
estate.”  The Quarles firm, from offices in Phoenix, filed a Chapter
11 petition for Hotels Nevada LLC after the company and a
controlling officer were hit with a $141 million arbitration
award. At the outset, Markell said the case seemed better suited
to a liquidation in Chapter 7. Less than four months after
filing, the judge switched the case to Chapter 7.  In the course of converting the case, Markell concluded
that the Chapter 11 petition hadn’t been filed in good faith.
Passing on the firm’s fee request, Markell ruled that the
considerable expenditure of time produced “no results.” Where
the firm said that a malpractice claim against the bankrupt
company’s former lawyers was the only asset of the estate,
Markell said no litigation was instituted and the firm “did
nothing to bring any value into the estate.”  In his Sept. 27 opinion, Markell found that services by the
Quarles firm “could only be expected to benefit nondebtor
parties primarily.”  The Quarles firm also has offices in Illinois, Wisconsin
and Florida. Frederick G. Lautz, the firm’s managing partner,
declined to comment because the matter is in litigation.  To read the opinion, click here.  The case is In re Hotels Nevada LLC, 09-31131, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Nevada (Las Vegas).  No Holdback on Lawyers’ Fees After Plan Confirmation  Even though unsecured creditors haven’t received a
distribution under a confirmed Chapter 11 plan, the lawyers for
the company and the creditors’ committee are entitled to full
payment of their fees, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck from
Manhattan ruled on Sept. 22.  Liquidated retailer Value City Holdings Inc. confirmed a
Chapter 11 where unsecured creditors were told they might
receive a distribution of more than 0.6 percent. The lawyers for
Value City and the official creditors’ committee sought a final
award of more than $7 million in fees.  The U.S. Trustee in New York argued that 10 percent of the
fees should be held back until unsecured creditors receive a
distribution. Peck disagreed.  Peck found “no basis under applicable law” to hold back
part of a final fee request based “on the timing or amount of a
distribution to the unsecured creditors under a confirmed
plan.” He said it would be “demeaning to reputable law firms
to introduce artificial contingencies to their right to received
earned compensation.”  The judge rested his decision in part on the realization
that bankrupt companies vary in their financial condition. As a
result, he said, distributions to unsecured creditors “are not
directly correlated with the efforts of retained
professionals.”  Value City was represented by New York-based Willkie Farr &
Gallagher LLP while counsel for the committee was Otterbourg,
Steindler, Houston & Rosen PC, also from New York.  Holdbacks of 10 percent to 20 percent are typical when
professionals seek awards of fees before the case is completed,
Peck said.  The case is In re Value City Holdings Inc., 08-14197, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New York (Manhattan).  Briefly Noted  Chemtura Settles Gowanus Canal Cleanup Claim  Specialty chemical maker Chemtura Corp. made another
environmental settlement. This time, it will pay $3.9 million
toward cleaning up the Gowanus Canal in  Brooklyn . To read
Bloomberg coverage, click here.  Chemtura has begun a contested confirmation hearing for
approval of the reorganization plan. The plan is supported by
the creditors’ committee and an ad hoc bondholder group. It
would pay creditors in full while leaving the possibility of
preserving some value for existing shareholders. The plan would
reduce debt for borrowed money from $1.3 billion to about $750
million. For details, click here for the June 18 Bloomberg
bankruptcy report.  Shareholders are opposing the plan, based on a belief they
are entitled to more because the company’s value in their
judgment exceeds Chemtura’s $2.05 billion valuation estimate.  The Chapter 11 petition in March 2009 by Middlebury,
Connecticut-based Chemtura listed assets of $3.06 billion
against debt totaling $2.6 billion, including $1.02 billion
owing on three issues of notes and debentures. Sales in 2008 of
$3.5 billion declined to $2.5 billion in 2009. The subsidiaries
outside of the U.S. didn’t file.  The case is Chemtura Corp., 09-11233, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Almatis Implements Revised Plan Based on Settlement  Almatis BV, a producer of specialty alumina products,
implemented the Chapter 11 plan yesterday that the bankruptcy
court approved in a Sept. 20 confirmation order, the company
said in an e-mailed statement.  The plan is founded on a settlement between junior lenders
and Oaktree Capital Management LLC, a first-lien lender that
intended to assume ownership. The plan instead gave Oaktree full
payment with interest at the default rate. Other holders of the
$676 million in first-lien debt receive the same treatment. For
details on the plan, click here and here for the Aug. 27 and
July 26 Bloomberg bankruptcy reports.  Rotterdam-based Almatis listed total debt of $1.3 billion,
including $681 million on first-lien obligations, $77.7 million
on second-lien debt, and $200.6 million on mezzanine debt. There
is junior mezzanine debt of $80.6 million, plus trade debt of
$20 million. Assets were listed for $1.53 billion.  The case is In re Almatis BV, 10-12308, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District New York (Manhattan).  Downgrade  Forstmann Little’s 24 Hour Fitness Lowered to B3  Fitness club operator 24 Hour Fitness Worldwide Inc. was
demoted one notch yesterday to a B3 corporate rating by Moody’s
Investors Service.  Moody’s based its action on declining revenue, lower cash
flow, and the “difficult environment for  consumer spending .”  Revenue for a year ended in June was $1.3 billion, Moody’s
said. The San Ramon, California-based company was acquired in
2005 by Forstmann Little & Co.  New Filings  Tilton, New Hampshire Hampton Inn Files in Manchester  The owner of the  Hampton Inn & Suites  in Tilton, New
Hampshire, filed for Chapter 11 protection yesterday in
Manchester, New Hampshire.  The petition says there is almost $12 million owing to
three different secured creditors. The largest is a $9.4 million
mortgage.  The case is In re Moultonborough Hotel Group LLC, 10-14214,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of New Hampshire (Manchester).  Renton,  Washington  Condo Developer Files in Seattle  Chateau de Ville LLC, the owner of 47 condominium units in
Renton, Washington, filed a Chapter 11 petition yesterday in
Seattle in the face of a suit by the lender on the debt.  Court papers say that First Citizens Bank & Trust Co. from
Raleigh,  North Carolina  is owed about $9.5 million on two
secured obligations.  The project owner contends the units are worth $12 million,
while secured and unsecured debt totals $10.1 million.  The case is In re Chateau de Ville LLC, 10-21648, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Western District Washington (Seattle).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Rochelle in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 