-- Roubini Says 2008 Bank Deals Created `Too Bigger to Fail' Risk
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2010-10-01T00:43:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/roubini-says-2008-bank-mergers-created-too-bigger-to-fail-risk-for-u-s-.html
Nouriel Roubini , the professor
credited with predicting the 2008 economic crisis, said mergers
during the recession raise the risk that the U.S. government
will have to bail out even larger financial companies.  “The ‘too big to fail’ problem has become an even too
bigger to fail” problem, Roubini said today at the Bloomberg
Dealmakers Summit in New York. “That is what happens when you
do mergers that don’t make any sense.”  The federal government rescued institutions whose potential
collapse could have disrupted the financial system in 2008,
including mortgage lender Fannie Mae and insurer American
International Group Inc. The U.S. allowed investment bank Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. to go bankrupt that September, deepening
the financial crisis.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. acquired the brokerage Bear Stearns
Cos. and assets of Washington Mutual Inc. in 2008 after the two
companies suffered market routs and regulators stepped in. Bank
of America Corp. bought brokerage Merrill Lynch & Co. and
mortgage lender Countrywide Financial Corp.  Populist ire with banks and brokerages, sparked by the
recession, may lead to far-reaching changes on Wall Street, said
 Arthur Levitt , who served under former President  Bill Clinton  as
chairman of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission from
1993 through early 2001.  “The anger is palpable,” Levitt said at the Bloomberg
conference. “To succeed in this environment, firms are going to
have to change, and are in the process of change.”  Goldman Sachs  Levitt cited  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , the New York-based
investment bank that hired him last year as an adviser. In May,
Goldman announced the formation of a committee that would review
the firm’s business standards and make recommendations to its
board.  “Every aspect of the firm is being examined and everything
is open to change or modification,” Levitt said at today’s
conference. “This is a six-month, round-the-clock study that
will result in significant changes in every aspect of the way
they do business.”  Roubini, an economist who teaches at New York University’s
Stern School of Business, also runs a consulting firm that
provides research and analysis on global economic issues.
Roubini, 52, previously served as the senior economist for
international affairs at the White House Council of Economic
Advisers under former President  Bill Clinton .  Levitt, 79, is also a senior adviser to Carlyle Group, the
Washington-based private-equity firm, and a board member of
Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Miles Weiss  in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  