-- Rousseff's Election Pledges May Lift Brazilian Rates Next Year
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2010-10-01T14:08:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/rousseff-s-election-pledges-may-lift-brazilian-rates-next-year.html
Dilma Rousseff ’s pledge to rebuild
Brazil’s roads, ports, railways and power grid means Latin
America’s biggest economy may be stuck for years with some of
the world’s highest interest rates, and taxes that might hinder
growth.  The 62-year-old former Marxist guerrilla, who leads other
presidential candidates in polls ahead of this weekend’s vote,
carried the banner of big government as cabinet chief in
President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva ’s administration. A failure
to curb the growth in public spending and credit she has
championed may stifle private investment by keeping the
country’s real interest rate around 6 percent, the highest in
the Group of 20 nations, according to  Arminio Fraga , chairman of
the Sao Paulo-based BM&F  Bovespa  stock exchange.  “It is no accident that our GDP per capita is about a
fifth of what it is in the richest nations,” said Fraga, a
former central bank president. “We definitely need to catch up,
and we’d like to do it quickly, but in order to do that, we need
to invest more and better.”  Brazil might be able to boost its long-term  growth rate  to
as much as 6 percent a year if Rousseff can reduce
transportation bottlenecks, raise education levels and cut red
tape, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  The challenge will be finding the money for such projects
without increasing the budget deficit, which  widened  to 3.38
percent of gross domestic product in August from 1.76 percent in
September 2008, according to the central bank, as the global
financial crisis began.  Spend ‘Effectively’  “There’s a limit to how much government spending can
rise” as a share of GDP, said  Jim O’Neill , Goldman’s chairman
of asset management, who coined the term BRIC in 2001 to
describe the rising global role of Brazil, Russia, India and
China. “If she really persists with this idea that they know
how to spend money effectively so let’s carry on, that would be
pretty worrying.”  While Barclays Capital predicts policy makers will hold
their benchmark interest rate at  10.75 percent  in 2011, the
central bank may be forced to raise the rate if a Rousseff
administration fails to control costs, said  Marcelo Salomon ,
chief Brazil economist in New York. Bloomberg estimates based on
interest-rate futures show the central bank boosting the Selic
to as much as 12.5 percent by the end of 2011.  Policy makers kept the rate unchanged on Sept. 1; they had
lifted it by 200 basis points between April and July from a
record low 8.75 percent to prevent the economy from overheating.  Slowest Pace  Brazil grew an average 3.57 percent a year between 2003 and
2009, the slowest pace of the BRIC countries while still an
improvement from a 2.32 percent average in the eight years
before Lula took office, according to the government’s  Applied
Institute of Economic Research.  The economy will expand 7.53
percent in 2010, the most since 1985, predicts a central bank
survey of about 100 economists published Sept. 27.  The rapid growth has put additional stress on the
transportation network, said  Werner Baer , an economics professor
at the University of Illinois and author of the book “ The
Brazilian Economy, Growth and Development .”  “Once you leave Sao Paulo, the road system is really
precarious,” Baer said. “Whenever you have harvest time, you
have these 20-kilometer or 30-kilometer queues waiting to
discharge their cargo in the ports.”  That congestion, along with record production and a lack of
alternative transportation, boosted the cost of trucking a ton
of soybeans 100 miles (161 kilometers) by 17 percent in the
second quarter from the same period in 2009, according to a U.S.
 Department of Agriculture  report published July 30.  Port Backlog  The backlog of ships waiting to enter Santos, Brazil’s
largest port, rose in August to a record 135. Brazil’s ports
ranked 123 of 139 countries in the World Economic Forum’s 2010-
2011  Global Competitiveness Index . Its roads ranked 105, and air
transport was 93. Overall, Brazil was 58th in competiveness,
lower than China at 27 and India at 51 but ahead of Russia at
63.  “This assessment reflects the appalling state of transport
infrastructure in the country,” the report said.  Upgrading these systems will be one of the new government’s
most urgent challenges, with the 2014 World Cup and 2016
Olympics putting Brazil under “the magnifying glass of the
world,” Baer said.  23-Point Lead  Rousseff has a 23 percentage-point lead over opposition
candidate and former Sao Paulo Governor  Jose Serra , according to
an Ibope poll published Sept. 29. Rousseff had the support of 50
percent of those surveyed, enough to give her a first-round
election victory on Oct. 3. Serra had 27 percent, and Green
Party candidate  Marina Silva  had 13 percent, according to Ibope.  In a debate with Serra and Silva last night, Rousseff
pledged to build a railway connecting the country’s grain belt
in the states of Mato Grosso, Goias and Mato Groso do Sul with
the coast, and make the country’s waterways navigable.  Real-estate, transportation and education stocks stand to
gain the most if she wins, according to Bank of America Corp.,
which cited  Cia. de Concessoes Rodoviarias , Brazil’s biggest
toll-road operator, highways and ports operator  EcoRodovias
Infraestrutura & Logistica SA  and toll-road company  Obrascon
Huarte Lain Brasil SA  in an Aug. 24 note to clients.  Rousseff was a member of two Marxist urban guerrilla groups
that fought Brazil’s military dictatorship, which held power
from 1964 to 1985.  As cabinet chief, she oversaw a 657 billion
reais ($386 billion) Growth Acceleration Program, rewrote oil
rules to benefit state-controlled  Petroleo Brasileiro SA  and
revived a state-run telephone company a decade after its
monopoly was broken up.  Corporate Debt  Spending by the federal government increased to 18.6
percent of GDP in July 2010 from 15.6 percent when Lula took
office in January 2003, according to Tendencias Consultoria
Integrada, a Sao Paulo-based consulting firm. Lending by BNDES,
the state development bank, has grown by 38 percent a year since
2006, and the bank now owns 21 percent of Brazil’s corporate
debt, according to a Sept. 28 report by Itau Securities.  Rousseff has said the state-led growth model is vindicated
by Brazil’s swift recovery from the global crisis. The economy
grew at an annualized rate of more than 8.8 percent in the first
half of the year, and  unemployment  fell to 6.7 percent in
August, a record low, from 9 percent in March 2009. GDP per
capita rose to $8,217 in 2009 from $2,870 in 2002, according to
the government’s economic-research institute.  Rousseff declined through a spokeswoman numerous requests
for an interview.  Two-Year High  The second phase of the growth-acceleration program will
require public and private investments totaling 959 billion
reais between 2011 and 2014, more than half for energy projects,
including offshore oil exploration by Petrobras.  Investors are betting the economy will continue to grow
under a Rousseff administration. Dollar-denominated bonds
returned 2 percent in September, their eighth consecutive
monthly gain, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. The real rose
0.4 percent to 1.6804 per U.S. dollar at 10:06 a.m. New York
time after closing at a two-year high yesterday. The benchmark
Bovespa stock  index  advanced 6.6 percent last month, capping the
biggest quarterly advance in a year.  That’s in contrast to market reaction when Lula was elected
in 2002. Investors sent the nation’s currency 60 percent lower
on concerns that he would allow Brazil to default on its debt.  “The bar has been raised,” Fraga said. “For some years
we were happy growing at 3 or 4 percent, because we had just
come from chaos, stagnation. Now we see that we can do better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Bristow  in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  