-- Rubber Climbs to Five-Month High as China's Manufacturing Growth Quickens
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2010-10-01T07:57:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/rubber-climbs-to-five-month-high-as-china-s-manufacturing-growth-quickens.html
Rubber advanced for a third day to a
five-month high after data showed China’s manufacturing grew at
a faster pace and the U.S. economy expanded, spurring investor
purchases of the commodity used in tires.  The most-active contract gained as much as 1.9 percent to
317.3 yen per kilogram ($3,806 a metric ton), the highest level
since April 26, before settling at 315.8 yen on the Tokyo
Commodity Exchange. Rubber extended gains after jumping 16
percent last quarter, the best performance since the three
months ended Dec. 31.  China’s  manufacturing  expanded at the fastest pace in four
months in September, adding to signs that economic growth is
stabilizing even as the government curbs energy use and tries to
cool the property market. U.S. government data showed yesterday
the nation’s economy grew at a 1.7 percent annual rate in the
second quarter, faster than the 1.6 percent previously estimated.  “A pessimistic view about the global economy has waned,”
 Shuji Sugata , research manager at Mitsubishi Corp. Futures Ltd.
in Tokyo, said today by phone. “Rubber may continue an upward
trend, in tandem with other industrial materials, amid
expectations for sustained growth.”  China’s purchasing managers’ index rose to 53.8 from 51.7
in August, the country’s logistics federation and statistics
bureau said in an e-mail today. The median forecast of 15
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News was 52.5. Readings above
50 indicate expansion.  Auto Sales  Today’s data add to a manufacturing survey released Sept.
29 that also showed an acceleration, suggesting China’s economic
momentum may counter weakness in the global recovery. The
nation’s growth may be aided in coming months by government
plans to speed the completion of stimulus projects and boost
public housing construction.  U.S. auto  sales  in September may have been the fastest
since March as consumers returned to showrooms, helping the
industry’s recovery from the worst year in almost three decades,
a survey showed.  Industrywide deliveries, to be released today, may have
reached an annual rate of 11.7 million vehicles this month, the
average of nine analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That
would top the 9.4 million pace last September, the month after
the U.S. “cash for clunkers” program ended, and match March’s
11.7 million rate, according to Autodata Corp.  Inventories Expand  “Rubber inventories in China expanded, reflecting
purchasing demand, while supply remains limited, driving rubber
prices higher,” Sureerat Kunthongjun, an analyst at AGROW
Enterprise Ltd., said by phone from Bangkok. Rainfall in
Thailand, the largest exporter, obstructed tapping and lowered
production, she said.  Natural rubber inventories monitored by the bourse expanded
4,680 tons to 31,580 tons, based on a survey of 10 warehouses in
Shanghai, Shandong, Yunnan, Hainan and Tianjin, the exchange
said yesterday.  The Shanghai rubber market is closed as China celebrates
National Day holidays from Oct. 1 to Oct. 7.  Gains in rubber futures were limited after the dollar came
under pressure against the Japanese currency, weakening the
appeal of yen-based contracts. The yen traded at 83.36 per
dollar at 4:55 p.m. in Tokyo from 83.53 yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aya Takada  in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net 
 Supunnabul Suwannakij  in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  