-- Rwandan Forces May Have Committed Genocide in Congo, United Nations Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K a v a n a g h   a n d   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a - D o y a
-- 2010-10-01T15:29:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/rwandan-forces-may-have-committed-genocide-in-congo-united-nations-says.html
Rwandan soldiers may have committed
genocide and six other countries are suspected of war crimes or
crimes against humanity in the Democratic Republic of Congo from
1993 to 2003, the United Nations said.  A so-called mapping report, published by the UN’s human-
rights agency today, details more than 600 “gross violations of
human rights and/or international law” by rebel groups and the
armies of Congo, Rwanda, Burundi, Uganda, Angola, Zimbabwe and
Chad.  Rwandan  soldiers in particular may be guilty of genocide
for the deliberate killing of ethnic Hutu refugees, according to
the report.  “There were tens of thousands of serious crimes and
perpetrators and hundreds of thousands of victims,” the UN’s
 Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights  said in the
report. The OHCHR said the nearly 600-page document was “aimed
at breaking the cycle of impunity” in Congo and called for a
judicial process backed by international and Congolese officials
to try perpetrators of the crimes.  Conflict began in eastern Congo in the early 1990s and
spread when the Tutsi-dominated Rwandan Patriotic Army crossed
into Congo to hunt down the Hutu perpetrators of the 1994
Rwandan genocide. The fighting eventually involved at least
eight countries and dozens of armed groups, many of whom fought
over Congo’s mineral wealth.  Congo holds 4 percent of global copper reserves, is among
the world’s largest producers of cobalt and industrial diamonds,
and is Africa’s largest producer of tin ore, according to the
 U.S. Geological Survey ’s website.  Responsibility  “The abundance of natural resources in the DRC and the
absence of regulation and responsibility in this sector has
created a particular dynamic that has clearly contributed
directly to widespread violations and to their perpetuation,”
the report said. “Both domestic and foreign state-owned or
private companies could bear some responsibility for these
crimes having been committed.”  Congo’s ambassador to the UN,  Ileka Atoki , welcomed the
“detailed and credible” report and vowed to prosecute those
responsible for crimes committed in the period.  “We are determined that the Congolese government will do
what it can to bring justice for the crimes and some degree of
reparations for the victims,” Atoki said in an e-mailed
statement.  Reparations  In 2005, Congo won a decision at the International Court of
Justice requiring Uganda to pay reparations for its role in the
war. Uganda has yet to pay. Congo sought a similar judgment
against Rwanda, though Rwanda’s government wouldn’t accept the
ICJ’s jurisdiction, Atoki said.  The ambassador called for a conference in Kinshasa to
discuss the judicial options set out in the report.  Many of the atrocities included in the report have already
been documented in UN reports in 1997 and 1998 and no steps were
taken to bring the perpetrators to justice, Filip Reyntjens, an
expert on Central Africa at the University of Antwerp, said by
phone from Antwerp on Sept. 29.  “The fact that they realized early on that they were not
going to be prosecuted emboldened them,” Reyntjens said. “If
we let this go this time, you can bet there will be human-rights
abuses again.”  Conflict between Congo’s army and numerous  Congolese  and
foreign rebel groups is continuing in the east of the country.  Peacekeepers  Rwanda, Uganda and Burundi rejected drafts of the report,
with both Rwanda and Uganda threatened to remove their forces
from UN peacekeeping missions in the region. Rwanda has since
withdrawn its threat, according to the UN.  Rwandan President  Paul Kagame  said today the report was an
attempt to “prolong instability in the Great Lakes Region.”  The document is “inherently flawed” as it omits historical
context, uses “problematic” methodology and inadequate standards
of proof to justify its allegations, Kagame’s office said in an
e-mailed statement from Kigali, the capital.  Ugandan Foreign Minister  Sam Kutesa  in an e-mailed
statement yesterday called the report “a compendium of rumors
deeply flawed in methodology, sourcing and standard of proof.”
 Burundi  said in a statement last month its forces “had never
been in collusion with any of the forces on DRC soil to fight
anyone.”  In August, Congo’s Justice Ministry called for help from
the international community to reorganize its judicial and
security systems and help prosecute the crimes in a 51-page
response to the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Kavanagh  in Goma on 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net ;
 David Malingha Doya  in Kigali via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 