-- Ryder Cup Host Terry Matthews Says He's Businessman Who Doesn't Play Golf
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h   a n d   L i n z i e   J a n i s
-- 2010-10-01T17:36:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/ryder-cup-host-terry-matthews-says-he-s-businessman-who-doesn-t-play-golf.html
Terry Matthews  brought the Ryder Cup
to his Celtic Manor resort in Wales even though he doesn’t play
golf. He does know the value of the game in the business world.  “I’m not a golfer, but I am certainly a businessman,”
the Welsh-born billionaire said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television during a rain delay on the opening day of
the biennial golf matches between the U.S. and Europe. “The
most senior executives in the world play golf or have clients
who play golf. It creates an environment to talk about business.
Anybody in business will tell you that’s the case.”  Matthews is chairman of  Mitel Network Corp ., a Canadian
telecommunications equipment maker with operations in Wales. He
spent 100 million pounds ($158 million) to build Celtic Manor,
which has three golf courses, including the 2010 Course being
used for the Ryder Cup. He has two more courses in Ottawa, his
home.  Matthews said before he even built the first he realized
golf was a serious business environment. He also found it took
too much time to play.  “You have to clear four, five hours and that’s a lot of
business (lost),” the 63-year-old said. “This particular 2010
Course would take me a month to go around.”  Matthews also has a home near Coral Ridge Golf
Club in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. It was there he met famed golf
architect  Robert Trent Jones Jr ., who he got to design the 2010
Course in Newport, Wales. It’s turned into a close friendship.  “Robert Trent Jones invested in my electronics companies
and he used to laugh and say, ‘I’ve made more money investing
with you Terry than I did in building 400 golf courses,’”
Matthews said.  Local Ties  Matthews built Celtic Manor after buying an old manor house
in the 1980s. He was born in the house, which was
later turned into a maternity hospital.  He’s built it into a resort that hosts the European
PGA Tour’s Wales Open and has now attracted golf’s top
international team competition.  “I build golf courses because they are close to where I
live,” Matthews said. “I have a home within five minutes (of
Celtic Manor). So I think about it as an extension of my home.
How many homes have three golf courses and 800 staff? Not even
Buckingham Palace can claim that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in Newport, Wales at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net ;
Linzie Janis in Newport, Wales at 
 ljanis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 