-- Rainy Ryder Cup Golf Opening Round Reumes Wales After U.S. Team Comeback
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2010-10-02T07:01:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/ryder-cup-play-suspended-as-rain-soaks-welsh-golf-course-after-five-holes.html
The U.S. will try to hold on to its
advantage over Europe as the opening fourball matches resumed
this morning at golf’s Ryder Cup, which had a rain delay of
more than seven hours yesterday and faces more wet weather
tomorrow.  The American team staged a comeback after the long delay
at Celtic Manor in Newport, Wales. Partly cloudy conditions are
expected today, with periods of light rain late in the day.
Sunday’s forecast calls for periods of rain, some heavy,
according to  weather.com .  The delay yesterday led to a schedule change as officials
try to end the competition on time. The second session, which
will begin today after the completion of the resumed matches,
will feature six contests instead of the usual four.  “It’s going to be tough going, especially with the ground
so heavy,” Europe’s  Rory McIlroy  told reporters yesterday.
“All 12 guys are going to play tomorrow, so I think that
stamina is going to be a factor.”  Play was halted at 7 p.m. local time yesterday and
restated at 8 a.m. today. The U.S. leads in two matches, with
the Europeans ahead in one and the fourth all square. The
Americans were trailing in three of the four before the delay.  “It was a tough day, starting with the weather,” U.S.
captain  Corey Pavin  told reporters. “I’m pleased with the way
the U.S. team came back and performed this afternoon. I’m very
proud of the guys.”  The opening four-ball match between Americans  Phil Mickelson  and  Dustin Johnson  and Europe’s  Lee Westwood  and
 Martin Kaymer  is through 12 holes, with the Americans trailing
by a hole. The two-man teams are playing their own balls, with
the lowest score winning the hole.  Cink and Kuchar  Americans  Stewart Cink  and  Matt Kuchar  are two holes up on
McIlroy and  Graeme McDowell  after 11 holes, while Ryder Cup
rookies  Bubba Watson  and  Jeff Overton  of the United States lead
 Luke Donald  and  Padraig Harrington  by one after eight holes.  Ian Poulter  birdied the 10th hole just before play
finished yesterday as he and European teammate  Ross Fisher 
moved even with  Tiger Woods  and  Steve Stricker .  “This will ebb and flow for the next two days and you’ll
see 20 minutes of good from Europe and 20 minutes of good from
the USA,” European captain  Colin Montgomerie  told reporters.
“I always said this was going to be close, and I don’t think
anything less right now.”  Play began on time yesterday at 7:45 a.m. in the rain,
which became heavy at times. Puddles formed on fairways and
greens, with groundskeepers using squeegees on the putting
surface, forcing a halt to play at 9:45.  Cink sunk three long birdies over five holes after
resumption to move his team into the lead. Mickelson made three
straight birdies to pull his team within one hole, while
Donald’s eighth-hole birdie cut the U.S. lead to one in their
match.  Modified Schedule  Officials, in consultation with Pavin and Montgomerie,
modified the schedule for the final two days to try to avoid a
Monday finish for the first time in the competition’s 83-year
history.  The teams will play six foursomes, or alternating shots,
today after the completion of the opening-round matches. In the
next session, scheduled to begin tomorrow morning, they’ll play
two foursomes and four fourballs, followed by the final session
in the afternoon featuring all 12 players on each side playing
singles, weather permitting.  “We felt we must do everything we can to finish the Ryder
Cup on Sunday, the chosen day, while maintaining the integrity
of the match,”  George O’Grady , chief executive of the European
Tour, said in a news conference. “This all depends on the sky
and whether the rain comes back again.”  ‘Through to Monday’  “If it does rain here on Sunday, if we lose another hour
of play, well, that’s it,” Montgomerie said. “We are through
to Monday.”  The U.S. holds the Ryder Cup after winning in 2008 in
Louisville, Kentucky. The Americans, who haven’t won overseas
since 1993, need 14 of a possible 28 points to keep the trophy,
while the Europeans need 14 1/2 to take it back.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  at Celtic Manor through the London sports desk at
   bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net  