-- Sainsbury Says U.K. Regulator Shared Secret Evidence
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2010-10-01T15:51:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/sainsbury-wins-consent-to-intervene-in-u-k-tobacco-price-fixing-appeal.html
J Sainsbury Plc  said Britain’s
antitrust regulator improperly revealed confidential employee
testimony in the appeal of cigarette price-fixing fines against
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  and other retailers.  Sainsbury, which gave evidence that led to 225 million
pounds ($356 million) in fines against competing retailers and
suppliers in the cartel, won court permission yesterday to
intervene in the case after claiming the  Office of Fair Trading 
had disregarded a request to keep secret the company’s witness
statements by current and former workers.  “Sainsbury’s had asserted to the OFT that the statements
were privileged and not to be disclosed,” said Vivien Rose, the
chairwoman the  Competition Appeal Tribunal  in London, in a
ruling yesterday. The intervention is granted “for the purpose
of any disputes as to the admissibility of documents.”  The regulator in April  issued the fines  against Wal-Mart’s
Asda unit,  William Morrison Supermarkets Plc  and eight other
retailers, as well as manufacturers  Imperial Tobacco Group Plc 
and  Japan Tobacco Inc. ’s Gallaher unit. The group allegedly
agreed to fix prices on cigarettes, hand-rolled tobacco, pipe
tobacco and cigars between 2001 and 2003.  According to the tribunal’s ruling, Sainsbury is worried it
may suffer damage to its reputation and commercial interests as
a result of its role in the cartel.  Sainsbury, Britain’s third-biggest supermarket chain, said
it believes the watchdog showed drafts of the testimony to the
appealing retailers.  Defending the Appeal  Evidence from Sainsbury’s current and former employees is
likely to be relied upon extensively by the OFT in defending the
appeals, according to the ruling. The company escaped being
fined in the case and is backing the OFT’s defense, in spite of
the challenge over testimony, the tribunal said.  OFT spokeswoman  Kasia Reardon  declined to comment. A call
to Sainsbury’s press office wasn’t immediately returned.  A further hearing on the appeal is scheduled for Oct. 18.  Imperial in June appealed its 112.3 million-pound fine, as
did Asda and Co-Operative Group Ltd., which were each fined
about 14 million pounds. The challenge to the fines was joined
by  William Morrison , which was fined a total of 19.5 million
pounds and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc , fined 3.35 million pounds.  Sainsbury’s request for an even broader role in the case to
allay “critical comments and scrutiny of Sainsbury’s’ role in
the infringements,” was denied according to the ruling. The
intervention was limited to dealing with the testimony and
matters related to court costs.  Sainsbury said in court filings that its violations ended
in 2003 and that it has a “rigorous” competition compliance
program in place.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Larson  in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 