-- Sanofi, Merck Said to Ready $1 Billion Animal-Health Asset Sale
-- B y   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2010-10-01T13:21:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/sanofi-merck-said-to-ready-1-billion-animal-health-asset-sale.html
Sanofi-Aventis SA  and Merck & Co.
plan to sell animal-health assets valued at about $1 billion
after agreeing to combine their veterinary-medicine businesses
this year, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  Morgan Stanley, which is advising on the sale, sent out
documents to prospective buyers, which may include  Pfizer Inc. ,
 Bayer AG ,  Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH ,  Eli Lilly & Co.  and
 Novartis AG , said the people, who declined to be identified
because the matter isn’t public. The process is still at an
early stage and probably won’t get under way until later this
year, they said.  Selling the assets may allow Paris-based Sanofi and Merck,
of Whitehouse Station, New Jersey, to resolve antitrust concerns
and complete the joint venture.  Chris Viehbacher , Sanofi’s chief
executive officer, in May said the company would probably need
to sell some animal-health assets to satisfy regulators. He also
said there was “significant interest” in the business.  Sanofi last year acquired Merck’s half of their Merial
animal-health venture for $4 billion before agreeing to combine
the business with Merck’s Intervet unit. Merck obtained Intervet
when the U.S. company purchased Schering-Plough Corp. last year.  Merial’s products include a bird-flu vaccine for poultry
and  Frontline , the best-selling flea spray for pets, while
Intervet makes a device to vaccinate pigs without a needle and
the  Safe-Guard  treatment to deworm dogs.  World’s Largest  The combined venture, which creates the world’s largest
animal-health business, will have annual sales of about $5.3
billion before any divestments, Viehbacher said in a Sept. 15
presentation to investors. The transaction probably will close
in the first quarter next year, he said.  It was unclear whether the sale would occur in one
transaction or in parts, said one of the people.  Jean-Marc Podvin , a spokesman for Sanofi, declined to
comment, as did Merck’s  David Caouette ,  Joan Campion , a
spokeswoman for New York-based Pfizer, and Lilly’s  Mark Taylor .
 Guenter Forneck , a spokesman for Bayer in Leverkusen, Germany,
and  Judith von Gordon  of Ingelheim, Germany-based Boehringer
also declined to comment.  Eric Althoff , a spokesman for Novartis
in Basel, Switzerland, didn’t immediately return calls.  Bayer needs to decide the future of its animal-health unit
in the next 12 to 18 months, Chief Executive Officer  Marijn Dekkers  said at a dinner with journalists in Cologne Sept. 27.
With 1 billion euros ($1.37 billion) in annual sales, the Bayer
unit is now “relatively small” compared with competitors,
Dekkers said.  “That’s an important question -- are we too small?” said
Dekkers. Bayer can “clearly afford” deals bigger than 1 billion
euros, he said. The company bid unsuccessfully for the Intervet
unit last year, according to people familiar with the situation.  Lilly would be interested in looking at assets that Sanofi
and Merck sell, Chief Executive Officer  John Lechleiter  said in
a March interview.  Virbac SA , a French maker of animal vaccines
and health-care products for pets, has said it may acquire some
of the assets.  To contact the reporters on the story:
 Jacqueline Simmons  in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net ; 