-- Severstal Will Consider More South African Purchases After IMBS Investment
-- B y   R o n   D e r b y
-- 2010-10-01T12:19:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/severstal-will-consider-more-south-african-purchases-after-imbs-investment.html
OAO Severstal , Russia’s largest
steelmaker, will consider other investments in South
Africa’s steel and mining industry after announcing its entry
into the country.  “We are interested in steel, mining of base metals, coal,
iron ore and gold,”  Alexander Grubman , chief executive officer
of Severstal Russian Steel, said in an interview in Johannesburg
today. Severstal bought 25.6 percent of Johannesburg-based Iron
Mineral Beneficiation Services, which has the patent to
technology that converts superfine iron ore to high-quality iron
units, for $17 million.  “We have a firm belief in this technology,” Grubman said.  Severstal’s billionaire Chief Executive Officer  Alexei Mordashov  said in June the Russian steelmaker was interested in
expanding in African mining. The company in May bought 16.5
percent of Core Mining Ltd., which has licenses to untapped iron
ore deposits in Congo and Gabon, and yesterday raised its stake
in Crew Gold Corp., operating in Guinea, to 93.4 percent.  “We think that Africa is the place that steel and mining
industry players have to be,” Grubman said.  South Africa’s steel sector is dominated by  ArcelorMittal
South Africa Ltd. , a unit of the world’s largest steelmaker,
which supplies 70 percent of the country’s steel needs. Russia
already has a presence in the country’s steel industry through
its second largest steelmaker,  Evraz Group SA , which owns a
majority stake in  Highveld Steel & Vanadium Ltd.   “Everywhere there is always room for competition,”
Grubman said, without wanting to directly comment on the
country’s steel sector.  Global steel production has recovered to levels prior to
the world economic crisis, driven by demand from China, said
Mark Camaj, a market analyst at the International Manganese
Institute, on Sept. 30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ron Derby in Johannesburg at 
 rderby1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 