-- Shell Says Australia Defers Approval for Prelude LNG Plan for Fourth Time
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2010-10-01T08:04:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/shell-says-australia-defers-approval-for-prelude-lng-plan-for-fourth-time.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc  said the
Australian government deferred a decision on its proposed
Prelude liquefied natural gas project for a fourth time as new
Environment Minister  Tony Burke  evaluates the venture.  Europe’s biggest oil company still expects to proceed with
the development in early 2011 after the government extended a
review of the project until Nov. 12, Perth-based spokeswoman
 Claire Wilkinson  said today in an e-mailed reply to questions. A
decision on whether to approve Shell’s plan to pioneer the use
of a floating LNG plant at the Prelude venture off northwest
Australia was due by today, following three deferrals this year.  Rulings on gas ventures proposed by Santos Ltd. and BG
Group Plc in Queensland state are now expected by Oct. 22, a
spokeswoman for the Australian environment department said in an
e-mail today. In July, decisions on the Queensland coal-seam
gas-to-LNG projects had been pushed back until Oct. 11.  Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  on Sept. 11 named
Burke environment minister.  Peter Garrett , who previously held
the position, became schools minister. The Shell, BG and Santos
ventures are among A$200 billion ($194 billion) of proposed LNG
projects in Australia seeking to tap rising Asian demand for
cleaner-burning fuel, according to figures from the  Australian
Petroleum Production & Exploration Association .  “We appreciate that given a new environment minister has
only recently been appointed that he will need some time to
consider our project before making a decision,” Shell said.  Shell, the Hague-based energy producer, aims to become the
first in the world to use floating LNG technology, which is
aimed at developing gas deposits too small or too far from the
coast to be profitably exploited through onshore plants.  Shell has found that Prelude has “a very low overall
environmental impact, and we look forward to hearing the
minister’s comments on our project,” according to the e-mail.  While the Queensland state government already cleared the
Santos and BG plans, the state’s coordinator-general had raised
concerns that the “significant” amount of water and salt
extracted in the process could pose environmental risks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Paton  in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 