-- Shock Therapy Best for Depression Patients When Drugs Don't Help
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2010-10-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/shock-therapy-best-for-depression-when-drugs-don-t-help-researchers-find.html
Electroconvulsive therapy  has the
strongest supporting data among treatments tested to help
patients who don’t respond to medications for depression,
according to guidelines published by the American Psychiatric
Association.  Today’s update, the first since 2000, is based on research
conducted from 1999 through 2006, according to a statement from
the Arlington, Virginia-based  doctor group . About 13,000
articles were reviewed to arrive at the recommendations.  The guidelines influence the assessment and treatment of
patients by psychiatrists, as well as the prescription of
antidepressant drugs, a $9.9 billion market in 2009. About two-
thirds of patients are helped by the first antidepressant
they’re prescribed, according to the Mayo Clinic in Rochester,
Minnesota.  The shock treatments may be the therapy “of choice for
patients with major depressive disorder who have a high degree
of symptom severity,” and who don’t respond to drugs, the
association wrote in its statement. The guidelines were drafted
by a team led by Alan J. Gelenberg, a psychiatrist.  About 9 percent of American adults in 2006 and 2008 met the
criteria for depression, and about 3.4 percent of those people
had major depression, according to a study  published yesterday 
in Morbidity & Mortality Weekly Report, a publication of the
U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, based in
Atlanta.  Brain Stimulation  Other potential treatments for drug-resistant depression
include  transcranial magnetic stimulation , which uses magnetic
fields to stimulate nerve cells in the brain; deep brain
stimulation, which implants an electrode to shock part of the
brain; and vagus nerve stimulation, which sends electrical
impulses to the brain through nerves in the chest. More research
is needed to know the best approach for these therapies, the
guidelines say.  The guidelines also note that modest improvements in mood
were seen in patients who worked out, and that exercise may
lessen depression symptoms. People who had medical problems in
addition to depression, such as obesity, showed a greater mood
benefit from exercise.  Research data don’t show a significant difference in
benefits from different classes of drugs, according to the
psychiatric association. The guidelines compared selective
serotonin reuptake inhibitors, such as Indianapolis-based  Eli
Lilly & Co. ’s Prozac and Celexa from New York-based  Forest
Laboratories Inc. , with serotonin norepinephrine reuptake
inhibitors, such as Effexor from New York-based  Pfizer Inc. ’s
Wyeth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Lopatto  in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 