-- Singh Shunned as Daiwa Buying Indonesia, KBC Favoring Brazil: India Credit
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2010-10-01T13:24:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/singh-shunned-as-daiwa-buying-indonesia-kbc-favoring-brazil-india-credit.html
India is lagging behind Brazil and
Russia in attracting debt investors as a lack of sovereign
dollar issues and regulatory hurdles deter firms from Daiwa SB
Investments to KBC Asset Management SA.  Indian debt attracted $419 million of net inflows from
global, high-yield and emerging-market bond funds this year
through Sept. 22, according to data compiled by EPFR Global, a
research firm tracking companies managing $13 trillion in
Cambridge, Massachusetts. That’s 1.4 percent of the $31 billion
funneled into emerging-market bond funds. Brazilian debt lured
$3.6 billion and Russia attracted $2.3 billion, the data show.  While record buying of Indian bonds this year led Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh  to raise the overseas investor limit by
50 percent to $30 billion on Sept. 23, regulators have yet to
allocate individual debt quotas for international funds more
than a week after the change. At the Securities and Exchange
Board of India’s auction Aug. 12, the limit for each entity to
buy government bonds was 1 billion rupees ($22 million) and 10
billion rupees for company debt.  “There isn’t enough liquidity in India’s bond market and
they still have regulations, making us reluctant to buy,” said
 Kei Katayama , who helps oversee $53.2 billion as head of foreign
fixed-income at Daiwa SB in Tokyo.  Daiwa SB says comparable yields and fewer rules make
Indonesian securities more attractive, while Luxembourg-based
KBC Asset Management favors Brazilian dollar bonds.  Yield Advantage  India’s 10-year local-currency government bonds yielded
7.91 percent, compared with 11.90 percent in Brazil, 7.59
percent in Indonesia, 7.38 percent in Russia and 3.32 percent in
China, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Similar debt
offers 2.54 percent in the U.S. and 0.96 percent in Japan.  The  difference  in yields between India’s debt due in a
decade and similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries widened to 536 basis
points, or 5.36 percentage points, from 526 a week earlier. The
spread, which has averaged 318 in the past decade, reached a
two-year high of 556 on Aug. 26. The spread between Brazil’s 10-
year dollar debt and Treasuries has narrowed to 123 from 144 in
the past month.  The government’s decision to expand the quota triggered a
rally in government bonds and the rupee.  Bond, Rupee Rally  India’s benchmark 10-year bonds rose for eight days until
Sept. 29, the longest winning streak since November, and touched
a six-week low after the government raised the cap on debt
investment. Yields on 7.8 percent notes due in 2020 fell eight
basis points last month, posting their first monthly gain since
June, according to the central bank’s trading system. The market
was closed yesterday and the bonds dropped today.  India’s rupee appreciated 4.7 percent in September to 44.94
per dollar, the best performer in Asia after South Korea’s won.  Erste Sparinvest in Vienna said it will consider entering
the Indian market after the policy changes.  “I like India as a fundamental story and there’s
potential,” said  Christian Gaier , who helps manage 1.33 billion
euros ($1.8 billion) in emerging-market debt at Erste Sparinvest.
“We are confident India will take more steps to open the
market.”  India’s economy  expanded  8.8 percent last quarter, the same
pace as Brazil.  Inflation  slowed to an eight-month low of 8.5
percent in August after central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao
raised benchmark interest rates five times since March. The
government forecasts the budget deficit will drop to 5.5 percent
of gross domestic product in the year to March 31 from 6.9
percent, the steepest cut in 19 years.  No Benchmark  India, which has no sovereign bonds denominated in dollars,
euros or yen, isn’t included in JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s bond
indexes tracking 41 countries in emerging markets that are
benchmarks followed by some of the world’s biggest bond funds.  International investors hold $5 billion of rupee sovereign
notes compared with $20.2 billion of overseas holdings in
Indonesian rupiah government debt, government statistics show.
Holdings of Brazil government domestic debt by foreign investors
rose 9.5 percent in August to the equivalent of $9.2 billion.  “India isn’t a benchmark name,” said  Lazlo Belgrado , who
helps manage $800 million of emerging-market dollar bonds at KBC
Asset Management SA in Luxembourg. “It isn’t a particularly
strong credit within emerging markets, and you do have to deal
with the cost of controls to invest locally there.”  Finance Secretary  Ashok Chawla  declined to comment
yesterday in New Delhi when asked why the country isn’t selling
debt denominated in dollars and euros.  Indian government bonds returned  0.7 percent  last month,
the fourth-best among 10 local-currency debt markets outside
Japan, according to  HSBC  Holdings Plc indexes. The notes
returned 3.8 percent this year.  India’s credit rating is BBB- at Standard & Poor’s and Baa3
at Moody’s Investors Service, on par with Brazil.  “There are other countries people can freely invest in and
out, and can make money,” said Akira  Takei , a fund manager in
Tokyo at Mizuho Asset Management Co., which manages about $24
billion. “We don’t have to enter India’s debt market for now.
Many investors probably take a wait-and-see stance.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Yong  in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net ;
 Yumi Teso  in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 