-- Slims' Transplant Inspires Push for Organ Donations
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2010-10-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/slim-sons-transplant-inspires-billionaire-family-push-for-organ-donations.html
In 2008,  Carlos Slim Domit  watched
his younger brother suffer progressive health troubles. Not yet
40, Patrick, chairman of Latin America’s largest wireless
company, was often fatigued, his hands and feet swollen.  After doctors told Patrick his kidneys were beginning to
fail, Carlos had himself tested to see if one of his could be
used to save his brother. So did his father, the Mexican
billionaire  Carlos Slim . The younger Carlos turned out to be the
best fit, and surgeons transplanted his kidney to  Patrick .  “I wouldn’t have imagined how immediate the change would
be,” Carlos said in an interview. “He had better color. He had
another expression.”  The Slim family, led by the world’s richest man, has taken
the experience as a call to action in their native Mexico. While
the country’s rate of organ donation is one of the lowest in
Latin America, the family is using its wealth and public profile
to encourage people to embrace the practice.  On Oct. 1, the brothers Carlos and Patrick will unveil a
campaign with the country’s Health Ministry to promote organ
donation. Through print and television advertising, the effort
will explain the need for donations and encourage Mexicans to
talk with loved ones about contributing their bodies after
death.  The younger Carlos said Mexicans may grow more comfortable
with the idea of organ donations by hearing the brothers’ story.  “Learning and hearing about the experience from people who
have been through the process can always help,” said Carlos,
43, the eldest of the six children of Carlos Slim and chairman
of  Telefonos de Mexico SAB .  Mother’s Legacy  The elder Slim, whose public holdings are worth about $60.3
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, said last
month he disagrees with  Bill Gates  and  Warren Buffett  that
billionaires should donate half their wealth to charity. Slim
has said he prefers to fight poverty by investing in projects
that create jobs. Slim’s charities have a budget of 18.8 billion
pesos ($1.49 billion) this year, according to an advertisement
his companies placed in Mexico City newspapers in June.  The issue of organ transplants has the family’s financial
and personal support. Their recent effort builds on the legacy
of Soumaya Domit, the elder Slim’s wife, who also received a
kidney transplant and died of kidney failure in 1999. Slim, 70,
has never remarried. The family’s National Transplant Foundation
has funded 6,500 transplants over the past decade.  More than two-thirds of the family’s wealth comes from
stakes in  America Movil , Latin America’s largest mobile-phone
carrier, and Telefonos de Mexico, the nation’s biggest land-line
phone company.  Long-Term Funding  Through his  Carlos Slim Health Institute , the billionaire
and his family spend about $20 million a year on research and
administrative costs around organ transplants, or about 10
percent of its annual budget, said  Roberto Tapia , chief
executive officer of the organization.  The idea, Tapia said, is to move from simply funding
transplants for Mexicans to improving the medical technology
available to make operations safer and more successful. The
group’s projects include funding genomic research at the Broad
Institute of Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Harvard
University to understand genetic factors in medical conditions
including kidney failure.  “They prefer to see it as a social investment, instead of
calling it philanthropic,” Tapia said of the Slim family.  The Slim Institute, founded in 2007, also is funding
research at Harvard-affiliated Brigham and Women’s Hospital in
Boston to increase the duration and health of a donated kidney
awaiting a recipient, Tapia said.  Health Ministry  Mexico’s government has welcomed the Slims’ help as it
seeks ways to fund more donations through its own health-care
system and to train more medical experts to guide families
through organ donations from patients who are near death, said
Enrique Martinez, director of the  National Transplant Registry 
at Mexico’s Health Ministry.  “Around the world these organizations are important, but
in a country like Mexico they take up an even more important
role,” Martinez said in a phone interview. “We always have
problems in institutions with a lack of resources, and these
organizations offer an opportunity to patients that, truthfully,
would be very difficult for them to find through other means.”  Mexico’s kidney transplant rate from live donors last year
was 16.6 per million people, about the same as the U.S. and
ahead of Spain, Colombia and Uruguay, according to Martinez and
to  statistics  from the International Registry of Organ Donation
and Transplantation, compiled by Spanish and Italian
researchers.  Drop-off After Death  The drop-off for Mexico came from deceased donors, with a
rate of 4.6 kidney transplants per million. That compares to 18
in Colombia, 33 in Uruguay, 29 in the U.S. and 45 in Spain, the
leader in organ donations after a years-long government effort.
A lack of trained medical personnel and legal frameworks are
some of the biggest obstacles to surmount, Slim Domit said.  “A big part of what’s going on is that there is very
little information,” Carlos Slim Domit said. “The other part
is all the infrastructure that is being created so that there
are people specialized in organ donations in the different
health centers, public and private, that know all the legal
processes that are required so people can donate.”  Transplant Improvements  Doctors have been successfully performing kidney
transplants since the 1950s, with success rates improving over
the decades with advances in tissue-matching tests and drugs to
suppress rejection of organs by the recipient’s immune system.  In the U.S., where the Slim Domit brothers had their
operation to gain access to the latest immune system suppression
therapies, kidney recipients between 35 and 49 years old had a
survival rate of 93 percent after the first year and of 89
percent after five years, according to government  statistics .  Two years after their transplant, the Slim Domit brothers
are talking about the operation publicly to help Mexicans learn
more. Carlos and Patrick, 41, recorded Web video  testimonials  to
encourage more families to consider donations. While the Slim
family cherishes its privacy, the decision to talk openly about
the transplant was easy, Carlos Slim Domit said.  “Our aim is that the experience that Patrick and I had can
help other people to sensitize themselves more to the subject of
organ donations,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Crayton Harrison  in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  