-- Some Foreign Investors Barred by India Markets Regulator Over Disclosures
-- B y   H e m a l   S a v a i
-- 2010-10-01T10:16:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/some-foreign-investors-barred-by-india-markets-regulator-over-disclosures.html
India’s capital markets regulator
barred foreign institutional investors including ABN Amro Bank
NV after they failed to comply with disclosure rules.  The Securities and Exchange Board of India said 197
overseas investors and 342 sub-accounts won’t be permitted to
take fresh positions in the cash and derivatives markets,
according to a  statement  posted on the regulator’s website.
Allianz Global Investors and Citigroup Pension Plan are among
the firms named in the regulator’s statement dated yesterday.  Jane Ong, a spokeswoman at Royal Bank of Scotland Group in
Mumbai, and Siti Hajar, assistant retail marketing manager of
Allianz Global Investors in Singapore, weren’t immediately
available for comment. Debasis Ghosh, a Citigroup Inc. spokesman
in Mumbai didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking
comment.  India’s regulator is tightening so-called know-your client
rules to ensure funds based abroad, which have pumped a record
843.6 billion rupees ($18.9 billion) into equities so far this
year, aren’t local investors bypassing foreign-exchange and
securities rules.  Barclays Bank Plc  was earlier barred from
trading derivative instruments because it didn’t verify the
identity of buyers and sellers. The ban was revoked on Aug. 31
after the U.K. lender changed its reporting systems.  The regulator ordered overseas funds to provide ownership
information for money coming into Asia’s third-largest equity
market outside Japan in an attempt to identify investors.  Foreign funds would have to explain by Sept. 30 how they
are structured, the  Securities & Exchange Board  of India, or
Sebi, said in a circular. Sebi won’t register new funds without
the information, according to a statement published on April 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hemal Savai  in Mumbai at  at
 hsavai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at  at
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  