-- South African PMI Drops Below 50 After Strikes Weakens Factory Production
-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 2010-10-01T09:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/south-african-pmi-drops-below-50-after-strikes-weakens-factory-production.html
South Africa’s  purchasing managers’
index  dropped below 50 in September as strikes in the car
industry curbed manufacturing,  Kagiso Securities Ltd.  said.  The seasonally adjusted index slid to 48.4 from 50.3 in
August, Johannesburg-based Kagiso said in an e-mailed statement
today. The index has been below 50, indicating a contraction in
output, in three of the past four months.  Manufacturing , which accounts for 15 percent of the
economy, has been slow to recover from last year’s recession,
limiting growth in Africa’s biggest  economy  to 3.2 percent in
the second quarter. Production was undermined by strikes in
August and September that shut plants owned by carmakers
including  Volkswagen AG . Manufacturing may remain under pressure
as the rand’s 10 percent rally against the dollar in the third
quarter hurts exports.  “As was the case in August, strike activity in the vehicle
sector may provide part of the explanation for the weak
September figure,” Kagiso’s Theo Vorster said in the statement.
“Factory output levels are set to moderate further during the
third quarter with the manufacturing sector unlikely to see any
meaningful job growth in the near term.”  The index measuring business activity dropped to 45.8 last
month from 46.9 in August, while the new sales orders sub-index
fell to 50.2 from 52, Kagiso said.  Manufacturers probably continued to shed jobs in September,
with the employment sub-index sliding to 48.1 from 48.3, the
survey showed. South Africa’s  jobless rate  of 25.3 percent is
the highest of 62 countries tracked by Bloomberg.  The  Bureau for Economic Research , based at the University
of Stellenbosch near Cape Town, and the Institute of Purchasing
and Supply South Africa conduct the PMI survey on behalf of
Kagiso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 