-- South Korea Plans to Spend $15 Million to Increase Rare-Earths Stockpiles
-- B y   S h i n h y e   K a n g
-- 2010-10-01T02:00:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/south-korea-to-spend-17-billion-won-on-increasing-rare-earths-stockpiles.html
South Korea plans to spend 17 billion
won ($15 million) to increase stockpiles of rare earths, a group
of 17 metals used in hybrid vehicles and laptop computers, by
2016 after China curtailed exports of the minerals to Japan.  The nation, which imports almost all its energy and mineral
needs, aims to secure 1,200 metric tons in stockpiles by 2016,
the  Ministry of Knowledge Economy  said in an e-mailed statement
today without giving the current inventory volume.  Japan’s Economy Minister  Banri Kaieda  Tuesday said China’s
“de facto” export ban on rare earths will hurt its economy
after media reports said China was restricting shipments. Ties
between China and Japan soured this month over the detention of
a Chinese boat captain whose ship collided with two Japanese
Coast Guard vessels in disputed waters.  South Korea will encourage companies to use rare-earth
substitutes to reduce imports, the ministry said. The nation
imported 2,600 tons of rare earths last year mainly from China,
according to the ministry. China is the world’s largest supplier.  Asia’s fourth-largest energy consumer, Korea Electric Power
Corp., will also seek to buy stakes in a coal mine in North
America and a uranium project in Western Europe by the end of
this year to secure stable supply of minerals used for power
generation, the ministry said.  State-run  Korea National Oil Corp.  plans to drill three
more blocks in Iraq after it discovered oil and gas in the
Bazian field in August in northern Iraq, while  Korea Gas Corp. 
is seeking offshore gas project opportunities in East Timor and
Mozambique, according to the statement.  Korea Resources Corp. will seek to buy a stake in the NX
Uno lithium project in Chile and purchase a copper mining
company in the nation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shinhye Kang  in Seoul at 
 skang24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 