-- State Street, Novartis, WaMu, Vivendi in Court News
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2010-10-01T12:12:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/state-street-novartis-wamu-vivendi-bp-societe-generale-in-court-news.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission may seek sanctions against two former  State Street
Corp.  executives accused of misleading investors in a bond fund
involved in a $313 million settlement with the agency.  John Flannery and James Hopkins “played an instrumental
role” in letters touting as safe a fund that was almost
entirely invested in securities and derivatives backed by the
subprime mortgages, the SEC said yesterday. State Street, the
second-largest money manager for institutions, resolved related
claims in February without admitting or denying the allegations.  Lawmakers and investors have faulted the SEC for suing
companies in cases stemming from subprime-mortgage crisis
without holding individuals responsible. An SEC administrative
judge will determine whether to impose penalties or other
sanctions against Flannery, State Street’s chief investment
officer of the Americas until November 2007, and Hopkins, a
former product engineer, the agency said.  “It is unfair and unjust that the SEC has chosen to bring
claims against Mr. Flannery when he believed that the letters
were accurate and he followed the advice” of State Street’s
lawyers, said Mark Pearlstein, his attorney at McDermott Will &
Emery. “He fully cooperated with the SEC’s investigation, and
the evidence demonstrates that Mr. Flannery acted in complete
good faith.”  Hopkins is “disappointed” by the SEC’s allegations and
“fully expects to be exonerated once the true facts are
presented,” John Sylvia, his attorney at Mintz Levin Cohn
Ferris Glovsky & Popeo PC, said in a statement.  The SEC’s claims were related to State Street’s Limited
Duration Bond Fund, which was marketed as an alternative to a
money-market fund. The Boston-based firm failed to disclose to
some investors the extent of the fund’s investments in bonds
backed by subprime home loans, the SEC said.  “State Street has resolved this matter both in terms of
addressing client concern as well as settling with the SEC,”
said spokeswoman Arlene Roberts, declining to comment on the
case against Flannery and Hopkins.  For more, click here.  Trials/Appeals  J&J Wins Appeal Over ‘Invalid’ Novartis Lens Patent  Johnson & Johnson , the maker of Acuvue brand contact
lenses, won a U.K. appeals court ruling affirming that
competitor  Novartis AG ’s European patent for extended-wear
lenses is invalid.  The judgment against Novartis and its Ciba Vision unit came
yesterday at the Court of Appeal in London. Novartis,
Switzerland’s largest drugmaker, appealed after a lower court in
July 2009 ruled its patent was “insufficient.”  The lower court “was entirely right to decide the patent
was insufficient,” U.K. Court of Appeal Justice Robin Jacob
wrote in the ruling. The patent is “nothing but a hazard to
those conducting research into extended-wear contact lenses.”  Novartis, based in Basel, Switzerland, sued in May 2007
over claims that J&J’s  Acuvue Oasys  lenses violate the patent by
using similar chemicals. J&J, the world’s biggest health-
products company, began selling Oasys in February 2005 through
its Vision Care unit. Lawsuits over the same lenses have also
been filed in the U.S.  Novartis argued that the lower court’s judgment was “out
on a limb” because Dutch and French courts had considered the
same patent and arrived at different conclusions. A three-judge
panel at the appeals court yesterday disagreed.  “Johnson & Johnson Vision Care is very pleased” that the
court ruled that the patent “is completely invalid” in the
U.K., spokesman Gary Esterow said in an interview.  J&J, based in New Brunswick, New Jersey, argued in the U.K.
appeal that Novartis’s patent covered too much technology.  An e-mail to Ciba Vision’s U.K. press office wasn’t
immediately returned.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Lawsuit News  WaMu Loses Bid for Mortgage-Securities Suit Dismissal  Washington Mutual Inc. , the ex-owner of the biggest U.S.
bank to fail, must face claims in a lawsuit over $10.8 billion
in mortgage-backed securities it sold, a federal judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Marsha Pechman in Seattle said
allegations that WaMu mislead investors can proceed, according
to a court order dated Sept. 28. She dismissed other claims
against the company.  “In essence, plaintiffs allege the underwriting guidelines
ceased to exist,” the judge wrote, refusing to dismiss the
entire case. “If proven true, the absence of underwriting
standards could make the identified statements misleading.”  Lead plaintiffs Policemen’s Annuity and Benefit Fund of the
City of Chicago, Boilermakers National Annuity Trust and Doral
Bank Puerto Rico sued Units of WaMu. They and other buyers
purchased $47.3 billion of mortgage-backed certificates,
according to court documents. The buyers said in a statement
yesterday that the ruling allows claims to proceed with respect
to seven offerings totaling $10.8 billion.  David Balabanian, who was listed as a lawyer for WaMu,
couldn’t immediately be reached for comment.  The case is Boilermakers National Annuity Trust Fund v.
WaMu Mortgage Pass Through Certificates, 2:09-cv-00037, U.S.
District Court, Western District of Washington (Seattle).  Vivendi, Time Warner Seek to End ‘Ellen’ Music Suit  Vivendi SA’s  music labels and Time Warner Inc. asked a
court to dismiss a lawsuit the labels brought against Time
Warner, the producer of Ellen DeGeneres’s television talk show,
for allegedly playing their songs without authorization.  The adversaries filed a joint request yesterday in federal
court in Los Angeles to end the copyright infringement case,
which was filed in March.  Interscope Records, Motown Record Co. and UMG Recordings
said in the suit that the “Ellen DeGeneres Show” played
hundreds of their sound recordings without obtaining permission
or paying for licenses. The songs included “Superfreak” by
Rick James and “My Humps” by the Black Eyed Peas, according to
the labels, part of Paris-based Vivendi’s Universal Music Group,
the world’s largest record company.  The producers, including New York-based  Time Warner’s 
Warner Bros. Television, said they had an “implied” license
because the labels took no action for almost six years.  Jeffrey Goldman, a lawyer for Interscope, and Aton
Arbisser, a lawyer for Time Warner, weren’t immediately
available for comment. Nor was Scott Rowe, a spokesman for
Warner Bros. Television.  U.S. District Judge Stephen Wilson on Aug. 30 denied a
request by both sides to halt the case for arbitration and said
it would proceed to trial on Nov. 30.  The case is Interscope Records v. Time Warner Inc., 10-
1662, U.S. District Court, Central District of California (Los
Angeles).  BP Asks Judges to Send Workers’ Savings Cases to Texas  Lawsuits by workers claiming BP Plc’s North American unit
mismanaged their retirement savings plan should be sent to the
Texas court handling investor claims prompted by the Gulf of
Mexico oil spill, company lawyers told a panel of judges.  The employees previously asked that the suits be combined
in Chicago, where the retirement plan is administered. BP
yesterday told a panel of federal judges meeting in Nashville,
Tennessee, that the cases belong in Houston because the claims
are similar to those in other investor suits.  “The important thing to focus on here is the vast overlap
in discovery,” or evidence-gathering, Daryl Libow, BP’s
attorney, told the judges. “Five of the seven members of the
employee plan oversight committee are in Houston.”  In the suits, filed as class actions on behalf of all U.S.
employees participating in the company’s retirement savings
plan, workers claim losses of more than $1 billion from the
stock plunge after the April 20 spill. BP’s pre-spill safety
record made the company a risky investment, the employees say.  The actions should stay in Chicago, where seven of the
eight suits were filed, lawyers for the workers said in court
papers. The cases were brought under the federal Employee
Retirement Income Security Act, or  ERISA .  The panel, meeting yesterday at the Vanderbilt University
Law School, in August consolidated lawsuits over claims that the
company misled investors before and after the spill.  The lawsuits are In Re BP Plc Securities Litigation, MDL
2185, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston),
and In Re BP Securities, Derivative and Employment Retirement
Income Security (ERISA) Litigation.  For more, click here.  Societe Generale Wins Dismissal of U.S. Suit Over Kerviel Loss  Societe Generale SA  won dismissal of a U.S. investor
lawsuit over Jerome Kerviel’s 4.9 billion-euro ($6.7 billion)
trading loss and a 1.1 billion-euro writedown related to the
subprime mortgage market.  A  U.S. Supreme Court  ruling from June that limits the
rights of investors who bought shares in foreign companies on
foreign exchanges to sue in American courts extends to U.S.
investors, U.S. District Judge Richard Berman in New York said
in a ruling Sept. 29.  The Supreme Court decision “compels dismissal of all three
plaintiffs,” Berman wrote. “As here, domestic plaintiffs
purchased shares of a foreign bank traded on a foreign
exchange,” Berman said, making arguments the Supreme Court
decision applied only to foreign investors “inapplicable.”  A Paris court rules this week on whether Kerviel is
criminally responsible for the January 2008 trading loss, which
occurred when France’s second-largest bank unwound 50 billion
euros in unauthorized bets. French engineering group  Alstom SA 
on Sept. 13 also won dismissal of a U.S. lawsuit filed by
investors who bought shares on foreign exchanges, based on the
Supreme Court ruling.  The case is 1:08-cv-02495-RMB, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York.  Fannie Mae Investors Barred From Suing Over Some Fraud Claims  Investors can’t pursue some of their securities-fraud
claims against Fannie Mae in a lawsuit accusing the government-
controlled mortgage financier of recklessly disregarding the
deterioration of the U.S. housing market.  U.S. District Judge Paul A. Crotty in New York yesterday
granted Fannie Mae’s request to dismiss claims that it
misrepresented its exposure to subprime and Alt-A mortgages, two
types of home loans that contributed to more than $1.8 trillion
in worldwide financial losses and asset writedowns. Shareholders
are allowed to proceed with allegations that Fannie Mae misled
them about its internal controls and risk management practices.  “E-mails suggest that Fannie was conscious of its internal
inability to manage the risks associated with subprime loans,”
the judge said.  Shareholders  sued  Fannie Mae and its former executives in
2008 after the U.S. government took control of the company.
 Fannie Mae  fell 3 percent to 27 cents in over-the-counter
trading yesterday, compared with $69.49 on June 18, 2007.  The plaintiffs, including common and preferred stock
investors who bought shares from Nov. 8, 2006, to Sept. 5, 2008,
claim the company and its executives continued to invest in
risky mortgages without regard for the housing market’s growing
volatility.  Janis Smith, a spokeswoman for Fannie Mae in Washington,
declined to comment on the ruling. Donald Hall and Glen
DeValerio, lawyers for the investors in the case, didn’t
immediately return calls seeking comment yesterday.  The case is In re Fannie Mae 2008 Securities Litigation,
08-7831, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  BP to Pay $15 Million in Record Air Pollution Penalty  A  BP Plc  unit will pay $15 million, the largest ever
single-facility Clean Air Act penalty, to resolve claims
stemming from two fires and a leak at a Texas refinery that
killed 15 people, the Justice Department said.  Residents near the refinery in Texas City, Texas, were
ordered to shelter as a result of the incidents at the BP
Products North America Inc. facility in 2004 and 2005, the
government said yesterday in a statement. The accidents released
thousands of pounds of flammable and toxic pollutants, it said.  The settlement resolves allegations that  London-based BP 
failed to identify all regulated hazardous air pollutants used
at the refinery in plans submitted to environmental regulators,
according to the statement.  Daren Beaudo, a BP spokesman, didn’t immediately return a
voice-mail message seeking comment.  Panasonic, Whirlpool Unit Settle Price-Fixing Case  Panasonic Corp.  and a  Whirlpool Corp.  unit agreed to plead
guilty and pay $140.9 million in fines in a price-fixing case,
the U.S. Justice Department said.  The $91.8 million fine of Suwanee, Georgia-based  Embraco 
North America Inc., the Whirlpool unit, resulted in Whirlpool
lowering its earnings estimate to $7.80 to $8.30 a share for
2010. The company had predicted earnings of $9 to $9.50 a share,
according to a company statement.  In a statement, Osaka, Japan-based Panasonic said its $49.1
million fine wouldn’t have a “material effect” on the fiscal
year that ends March 31.  Panasonic and  Embraco  conspired to fix prices for
refrigerant compressors in the U.S. and elsewhere, the Justice
Department said yesterday in a press release. The compressors
pump high-pressure vapor that cools refrigerators and freezers.  Christine Varney, who heads the department’s antitrust
division, said the plea agreement resolves the first charges
brought in a broader investigation into the refrigerant
compressors market.  “The DOJ recognized Embraco’s substantial assistance in
the investigation and agreed not to bring further charges
against Embraco or any related entities for any conspiracy
involving compressor pricing,” Whirlpool said in a regulatory
filing.  Novartis to Pay $422.5 Million to End Trileptal Probes  A U.S. unit of  Novartis AG , the Swiss drugmaker, agreed to
pay $422.5 million to resolve criminal and civil investigations
into the marketing of its epilepsy drug Trileptal.  Novartis agreed to plead guilty to a misdemeanor and pay a
$185 million fine, the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Philadelphia
said yesterday in a statement. The company also agreed to pay
$237.5 million to resolve civil allegations over the promotion
of Trileptal for uses not approved by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration, the federal prosecutor’s office said.  The civil settlement resolves lawsuits filed by several
whistleblowers under the False Claims Act. The law lets private
citizens sue on behalf of the government and share in any
recovery.  On Sept. 15, a Forest Laboratories unit agreed to plead
guilty and pay $313 million for distributing its Levothroid
thyroid drug before approval by the FDA. On Sept. 1,  Allergan
Inc.  agreed to plead guilty and pay $600 million to resolve
civil and criminal probes over marketing of the wrinkle smoother
Botox.  Georgia-Pacific Loses Toilet-Paper Trademark Claim  A Georgia-Pacific LLC unit lost a trademark-infringement
case filed against rival  Kimberly-Clark Corp.  over the design
for a line of toilet paper.  U.S. District Judge Virginia Kendall in Chicago ruled
yesterday that Georgia Pacific Consumer Products LP’s quilted-
diamond design was a functional element of the product and
couldn’t be trademarked.  The diamond pattern appears on Georgia-Pacific’s Quilted
Northern toilet paper, and on three competing Kimberly-Clark
products, Cottonelle Ultra, Scott Extra Soft and Scott Kimberly-
Clark Professional, the judge said.  “The degree to which Georgia Pacific emphasized the
utilitarian benefits of the quilted diamond design in its
advertising provides additional support” for finding that it’s
functional and not merely an aesthetic choice, Kendall said.  Kendall also granted Kimberly-Clark’s counterclaims seeking
cancellation of four Georgia-Pacific trademarks implicated by
her ruling.  Georgia-Pacific, based in Atlanta, is a unit of Wichita,
Kansas-based Koch Industries Inc. It sued Dallas-based Kimberly-
Clark in April 2009.  “We haven’t had any time to review the decision,” James
Malone, a spokesman for Georgia Pacific said in a phone
interview yesterday.  He said that, while no determination has
been made as to an appeal, the company “strongly believes in
protecting its valuable intellectual property,” including the
embossed patterns at issue in the case.  The case is Georgia-Pacific Consumer Products LP v.
Kimberly-Clark Corp., 09cv2263, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Illinois (Chicago).  Merck Loses $4.6 Million Verdict in Price-Fixing Trial  Merck & Co.  units were ordered to pay $4.6 million over a
lawsuit brought by Massachusetts that claimed they inflated
wholesale prices of Proventil generics.  A federal-court jury in Boston yesterday found in favor of
the state over Schering Corp. and Warrick Pharmaceuticals, units
of Whitehouse Station, New Jersey-based Merck. The judge has the
discretion to triple the award.  Massachusetts claimed the companies reported inflated
wholesale acquisition-cost prices for the generics, and that
MassHealth, the state component of the Medicaid program, would
rely on those prices for reimbursements.  “The company intends to vigorously pursue a reversal of
the verdict in the trial court and on appeal if necessary,”
said Bruce Kuhlik, Merck’s general counsel. “We strongly
believe the evidence showed that the Commonwealth made informed
choices about the amounts it paid to Massachusetts pharmacists
and that Warrick was in no way responsible for these choices.”  Representatives of the state didn’t immediately return
messages seeking comment.  The case is Massachusetts v. Mylan Laboratories, 03-cv-
11865, U.S. District Court for Massachusetts (Boston).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  New Suits  Air France-KLM, Martinair Sued Over Cargo Cartel  Air France-KLM Group and its Dutch Martinair unit were sued
in a lawsuit seeking as much as 500 million euros ($680 million)
over claims the carriers fixed prices on air-shipping services.  Royal Philips Electronics NV and Ericsson AB are among
freight customers joining a case to seek the damages in Dutch
courts for paying too much to freight goods in Europe from 2000
to 2006, according to  Claims Funding International Plc , a
Dublin-based company organizing the case.  The lawsuit, filed in the Netherlands, would hold Air
France-KLM and Martinair “jointly and severally liable” for
harm that members of a global cartel caused customers in Europe,
said Martijn van Maanen, a partner at  BarentsKrans , the Hague-
based law firm representing CFI.  Air France in July paid $87 million to hundreds of freight
shippers to settle class-action lawsuits in the U.S. It also
paid a $350 million criminal fine and pleaded guilty to U.S.
antitrust charges in 2008. It didn’t reach a settlement with
end-customers in Europe.  European Union regulators are still investigating dozens
of carriers for alleged price-fixing, almost three years after
they sent formal complaints to 26 airlines.  Cedric Leurquin, a spokesman for Air France in Paris,
declined to comment on the lawsuit.  Joon Knapen, a spokesman for Amsterdam-based Philips, and
Fredrik Hallstan, a spokesman for Ericsson in Stockholm, said
the companies had joined the case.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 