-- Stock Sales Fall to Five-Year Low in U.S., Driving Down Fees as Debt Booms
-- B y   M i c h a e l   T s a n g   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2010-10-01T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/stock-sales-fall-to-five-year-low-in-u-s-driving-down-fees-as-debt-booms.html
Equity sales dropped to a five-year
low in the U.S. so far this year, eroding underwriting fees as
companies flocked to the debt market where borrowing costs fell
to record lows.  Wall Street firms collected $3.73 billion from managing
initial public offerings and additional sales in the first three
quarters, down 17 percent from a year ago, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Equity offerings slid 23 percent to $88.6
billion. Bond sales totaled $861 billion and high-yield debt
issues rose 87 percent to a record $198 billion, the data show.  Companies are picking debt over equity as yields on U.S.
investment grade corporate bonds sank to an all-time low of
3.645 percent this week, according to data from Bank of America
Corp.’s Merrill Lynch. Diminished fees from stocks contributed
to what may have been the worst quarter for investment banks
since the peak of the credit-market crisis.  “You have that perfect storm going against equity
issuance,” said  Peter Jankovskis , who helps manage $2.2 billion
as co-chief investment officer at Oakbrook Investments in Lisle,
Illinois. “The cost of debt is so much lower, and two, the
companies aren’t being very aggressive. There’s not much the
banks can do about it. They’re certainly losing out on fees.”  The decline in fee income is coming in a business that has
traditionally been one of the most lucrative for the financial
industry. Banks earned fees of 4.21 percent from managing share
sales in the U.S. this year, more than double those from
corporate bonds or mergers and acquisitions, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Debt Versus Equity  MetLife Inc. , the largest U.S. life insurer, completed the
biggest share sale so far this year after raising  $3.62 billion 
in August to help finance its  acquisition  of a unit of New York-
based American International Group Inc. The life insurer also
sold $3 billion of debt for the purchase.  For the share sale, Bank of America Corp.,  Credit Suisse
Group AG  of Zurich and four other banks hired by MetLife earned
$93.1 million after charging 2.57 percent, Bloomberg data show.  That’s almost six times more profitable than the 0.44
percent fee from the  debt   offering , which gave the banks $13.3
million, New York-based MetLife’s filings with the Securities
and Exchange Commission and data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Revenue from underwriting IPOs is even higher, with bankers
earning an average of 6.53 percent this year, the data show.  ‘More Lucrative’  “No doubt the banks would rather do more equity deals,”
said  Michael Holland , who oversees more than $4 billion as
chairman of Holland & Co. in New York. “There’s no question the
equity business is far more lucrative, but unfortunately for the
banks, it’s not there right now for them.”  Companies have raised 23 percent less from share sales in
2010 versus the same period a year ago, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. From 2007 to 2009, when U.S. equities
fell as much as  57 percent  amid the worst financial crisis since
the Great Depression, they still sold at least $98.8 billion in
stock in the first three quarters of each year, the data show.  Almost 70 percent of companies that completed IPOs in 2010
have raised less than they initially sought, while the average
amount of shares sold has decreased to an 11-year low of $152
million per deal, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s less
than half the size of an average initial offering last year.  Companies are taking advantage of the lowest borrowing
costs on record to issue debt.  Borrowing Costs  Near zero percent benchmark U.S. interest rates and the
Federal Reserve’s purchase of bonds pushed the average yield on
U.S. investment grade debt to 3.645 percent this week, based on
more than 4,000 bonds in Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S.
Corporate Master Index. That’s the lowest since the data began
in October 1986 and 25 percent less than at the end of 2009.  KKR & Co. , the private equity firm founded in 1976 by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , canceled a  $500 million  share
offering on Aug. 9 because of “unfavorable market conditions.”
A month later, KRR sold the same amount of bonds in the New
York-based firm’s first-ever debt offering.  “To the extent that it’s easier to raise huge amounts of
fixed income at extremely low interest rates, they’re willing to
do that if they can’t do large equity deals,” said Holland.
“It’s a once-in-a-lifetime window for these rates, so they’re
very happy to help satisfy the appetite.”  For some companies, debt is so cheap relative to equity
that they are borrowing money to buy back shares rather than
issuing them. Redmond, Washington-based  Microsoft Corp.  sold
$4.75 billion of bonds at the lowest coupons on record to help
finance share repurchases.  Share Buybacks  The world’s largest software maker’s $1 billion of 0.875
percent notes due in 2013 and $1.75 billion of 1.625 percent
debt maturing in 2015 have the lowest interest rates of more
than 3,500 securities in the Barclays Capital U.S. Corporate
Index of investment-grade company debt.  Companies opting to sell debt rather than offer shares are
reducing equity underwriting income at the five biggest Wall
Street banks.  “Equity sales are certainly slow,” said  Steven Kaplan ,
professor of finance at the University of Chicago’s Booth School
of Business. “The market’s not strong for equities, so they’re
not making as much money there.”  Revenue at  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  of New York, which won the
biggest share of the $3.73 billion in fees from U.S. stock
issuance this year, has declined by 37 percent from the same
period a year ago, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fee Income  The bank earned $536 million on 98 offerings in 2010 and
was credited with $17.5 million for arranging Houston-based
 Apache Corp.’s  sale of $2.3 billion in shares on July 23 with
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Bank of America and Citigroup Inc.,
the data show. JPMorgan, the top fee-earner in the nine months
of 2009, was credited with $855 million in fees.  Morgan Stanley ’s fee income fell 11 percent to $501 million
on 96 equity sales to rank second behind JPMorgan. The New York-
based firm earned $13.5 million on the $413 million IPO for
Greenwood Village, Colorado-based  Molycorp Inc.  last quarter.  Bank of America  won the largest share of fees in the third-
quarter to climb past New York-based Goldman Sachs into third
place for the year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
Charlotte, North Carolina-based lender helped arrange both the
 MetLife  and  Apache  deals last quarter, bringing its fees for the
year to $399 million on 99 offerings. That’s still 38 percent
less than the same period last year when it arranged 121 deals.  Goldman Sachs , which ranked second behind JPMorgan in fee
income for 2009, had the biggest revenue decline among the five
firms after underwriting fees tumbled 49 percent to $318 million
on 58 equity offerings this year, the data show.  No Comment  Citigroup  earned the least of the group with $226 million
from arranging U.S. stock sales. Fees at the New York-based bank
fell 31 percent from the same period a year ago as it dropped
out of the top five among U.S. equity underwriters.  Tasha Pelio , a spokeswoman at JPMorgan, declined to
comment, as did Morgan Stanley’s  Mary Claire Delaney ,  John Yiannacopoulos  of Bank of America,  Andrea Rachman  at Goldman
Sachs, and Citigroup’s  Alexander Samuelson .  Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg have cut their average
third-quarter revenue estimates for the five banks by a total of
$2.56 billion in the past month, to $88.2 billion, as they
scaled back expectations.  “New issuance is the only high-spread business around,”
said  David Weild , a New York-based senior adviser at accounting
firm Grant Thornton LLP. “When the equity issuance numbers are
down, then people are making a lot less money.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Tsang  in New York at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net ;
 Lee Spears  in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 