-- CWCapital May Take Title to New York's Stuyvesant Town at Foreclosure Sale
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l   a n d   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r
-- 2010-10-01T21:31:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/stuyvesant-town-title-may-be-taken-over-by-cwcapital-at-foreclosure-sale.html
CWCapital Asset Management LLC, which
represents senior debt holders of Stuyvesant Town-Peter Cooper
Village, may be poised to take the title to Manhattan’s biggest
apartment complex at a foreclosure sale next week.  CWCapital has been taking steps since February in
anticipation of controlling the property, home to about 25,000
residents. The company may bid up to the $3.67 billion that
lenders are owed on the defaulted mortgage without having to
commit any money, known as a credit bid. Unless a third party is
willing to pay more for the complex, which Fitch Ratings valued
at $1.8 billion in January, then CWCapital would take the title.  “We can credit bid up to the full amount of what we are
owed,” said  Greg Cross , the lawyer representing CWCapital in
the foreclosure. He declined to say whether the company would
bid the price that high or accept a lower offer.  Bill Ackman ’s Pershing Square Capital Management LP and
Winthrop Realty Trust, which own $300 million of debt on the
property, this week lost a bid to stop the Oct. 4 sale. Ackman
and Winthrop CEO  Michael Ashner  met with representatives of
CWCapital today, according to two people briefed on the matter.
The meeting ended without an agreement, said one of the people,
who asked not to be named because the talks are private.  CWCapital hired Rose Associates Inc., the complex’s former
manager, in February to advise on a transition. CWCapital said
in court papers that it spent “millions” since then on
preparation plans that include updating the computer system that
governs rent, maintenance records and the private security
force; reviewing contracts with at least 89 vendors; and
recruiting new management to work on-site.  Building Manager  Current owner Tishman Speyer Properties LP resigned as
manager of the buildings on Sept. 23, according to court papers
filed that day by CWCapital. Tishman agreed to stay on an “as-
needed basis” but has refused to manage the property once title
is transferred to a new owner. Sixteen members of Tishman’s
Stuyvesant Town-Peter Cooper Village management staff --
including positions equivalent to chief executive officer, and
chief operating officer -- will leave when Tishman does.  “Many have in fact already transitioned off the property
in expectation of a late September transition of the property to
senior lenders,” according to an affidavit by Andrew MacArthur,
a CWCapital vice president, filed on Sept. 23.  Should CW take control of Stuyvesant Town-Peter Cooper
Village next week, it will hire Rose Associates as the manager,
putting the group in charge of collecting rents and maintaining
the property while CW owns it, Cross said.  Transfer Taxes  CW would need to pay city and state transfer taxes of 3.025
percent of the bid price if it takes the title, according to
 Joshua Stein , principal of Joshua Stein PLLC, a New York-based
independent commercial real estate law practice that isn’t
involved in the case.  CW would also need to pay a second transfer tax when it
eventually sells the property, Stein said.  “Their position could be that we just want to acquire this
damn thing,” Stein said of CWCapital. “Lets just buy it in,
we’ll pay the transfer tax, and we’ll hope that the incremental
value of holding and waiting will exceed the incremental cost of
paying a second transfer tax.”  CW could avoid the double transfer taxes by negotiating a
deal with a buyer ahead of the auction, and then selling the
$3.67 billion mortgage to that acquirer moments before the
foreclosure sale, Stein said. That buyer would still need to pay
one transfer tax.  Assigning the Mortgage  “The new owner of the mortgage then takes control of the
foreclosure process” and can credit bid the $3.67 billion,
Stein said. Assigning a mortgage to another party doesn’t incur
a transfer tax, he said.  CW could also make arrangements with likely bidders ahead
of the auction to assure that they attend the sale and make an
offer, Stein said.  Developer  Gerald Guterman , who is seeking to acquire the
property and convert it to co-ops, said Sept. 16 that his team
at Condo Recovery LLC would like to have the mortgage assigned
to them by CW ahead of the auction. He declined to say in a
Sept. 29 interview if he was pursuing that option, bidding at
the sale or trying to buy the property at a later date from CW.  “We have three options and we’re considering all of those
options right now,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Oshrat Carmiel  in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Keehner  in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  