-- Cocoa Rises to Six-Week High in New York on Ecuador Clash; Sugar Declines
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2010-10-01T12:13:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/sugar-slides-on-reduced-concern-about-brazil-crop-damage-coffee-advances.html
Cocoa rose to a six-week high in New
York on concern over possible supply disruptions because of
fighting in Ecuador. Sugar slid and coffee gained.  Ecuadorean military forces freed President Rafael Correa in
a raid on a hospital where police held him captive as part of a
wage dispute, in what the president described as an organized
coup attempt. The country accounts for 4 percent of global cocoa
output, according to the International Cocoa Organization.  “Some people may like to talk it up a bit, and that may
play around with prices,” said  Gary Mead , an analyst at VM
Group in London. Cocoa may rise further if the violence in
Ecuador “turns into a serious major disaster, as opposed to a
Latin American hiccup,” he said.  Cocoa for December delivery advanced $34, or 1.2 percent,
to $2,848 a metric ton at 12:47 p.m. London time on ICE Futures
U.S. in New York. Prices reached $2,896, the highest level since
Aug. 20.  Cocoa for December delivery slipped 2 pounds, or 0.1
percent, to 1,908 pounds ($3,022) a ton on NYSE Liffe. The
contract erased a climb as high as 1,938 pounds, the highest
level since Sept. 8.  Sugar fell to the lowest price in more than a week in
London as signs of increased rain reduced concern that drought
will damage crops in Brazil. A cold front reached the states of
Sao Paulo and Minas Gerais on Sept. 26, said  Expedito Rebello ,
head of research at Brazil’s Meteorology Institute, adding that
rains will help harvests following the drought.  Improvement in Brazil  “The picture in Brazil has definitely improved over the
last week,”  Jake Wetherall , a London-based trader at Rabobank
International, said by e-mail today. The country is the world’s
biggest sugar producer.  Refined, or white, sugar for December delivery dropped
$10.80, or 1.8 percent, to $606.20 a ton on NYSE Liffe. The
contract fell as low as $602.40, the lowest price since Sept.
22.  Raw sugar for March delivery declined 0.6 cent, or 2.6
percent, to 22.88 cents a pound in New York. Prices touched
22.78 cents, the lowest level since Sept. 22.  Eight of 12 traders, analysts and brokers surveyed by
Bloomberg News said raw sugar will drop next week as concern
eases over drought in Brazil. Four predicted prices will be
little changed. Seven of 12 respondents said white sugar will
fall and five forecast little change.  Coffee Supply  Robusta coffee advanced in London on concern about supply
from Vietnam, the world’s biggest grower of the variety, and
Indonesia, according to  Ralph Hawes , a coffee trader with Sucden
Financial Ltd. in London.  “We’re between crops as far as Vietnam is concerned,”
Hawes said by phone today. “Indonesia has reportedly quite
ample stocks, but they will be eking them out if the price is
right.” The Vietnam Coffee and Cocoa Association has yet to
make an estimate of the nation’s harvest.  Robusta coffee for November delivery gained $2, or 0.1
percent, to $1,724 a ton on NYSE Liffe. Arabica beans for
December delivery advanced 0.7 cent, or 0.4 percent, to $1.8375
a pound in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Kay  in London at   ckay5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 