-- Suicide After Sex Video Leaves Shared Guilt Behind: Ann Woolner
-- B y   A n n   W o o l n e r
-- 2010-10-01T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/suicide-after-sex-video-leaves-shared-guilt-behind-ann-woolner.html
Those of us who managed to grow into
adulthood without the Internet or Twitter or Facebook tend to
have at least some respect for privacy.  For many of our children or grandchildren, that’s a foreign
concept. Why wouldn’t you want your friends to know where you
are all the time? Why not post those hilarious photos of
yourself vamping with puckered lips, cleavage showing?  And, for some, it’s nothing to expose normally hidden body
parts into a cell phone camera and send the shot to someone they
want to impress, or taunt.  (Oops, how’d THAT get on Facebook?)  So perhaps it wasn’t much of a leap from the commonplace
exposure of every-single-thing to every-single-body for a
freshman at  Rutgers University  in Piscataway, New Jersey, to
stream live video of his unsuspecting roommate, Tyler Clementi,
engaged in what Clementi assumed to be a private moment with
another guy.  “Roommate asked for the room till midnight,” a Sept. 19
Twitter message read,  according  to the New York Times. “I went
into molly’s room and turned on my webcam. I saw him making out
with a dude. Yay.”  It seems that when Clementi asked his roommate, Dharun
Ravi, for privacy, he didn’t realize Ravi could or would see
what was happening from another room through a remote-controlled
camera on Ravi’s computer in their shared room.  A tipster told authorities a camera had been set up without
Clementi’s consent. Ravi told someone in the dorm that when he
first dialed into his computer, he only accidentally saw what
was happening in the room, the Times reported.  Streaming Live  But it doesn’t really matter. Once he peeked into the room
and saw his roommate engaged with another man, did he shut off
the camera out of respect for Clementi’s privacy? No, he bragged
about it in a Tweet. Did he at least keep what he saw to
himself?  No, he streamed it live and offered to do it again three
days later. On Sept. 22, Ravi invited “anyone with iChat” to
join him in a video chat “between the hours of 9:30 and 12.
Yes, it’s happening again.”  But it didn’t happen again. Around 9 p.m. on that day,
Clementi, 18, jumped to his death off the George Washington
Bridge, which connects New Jersey and New York.  It’s fitting, perhaps, that Clementi went online to declare
his plans. “Jumping off the gw bridge sorry,” he wrote on his
Facebook page, according to the  Star-Ledger  in Newark, New
Jersey.  Police have arrested Ravi and fellow student, Molly Wei,
both 18, and charged them with two counts each of invasion of
privacy, a quaint-sounding  crime  that could put them behind bars
for up to five years. His lawyer isn’t talking to reporters, an
assistant said, and her lawyer didn’t return my call.  Fatal Combination  Frankly, if the allegations are true, they deserve that
much time. Maybe others would learn the value of protecting the
privacy of others, if not their own.  But invasion of privacy isn’t the only crime here.  If police and news reports are accurate, and assuming
Clementi became aware that classmates were viewing his
encounter, the suicide looks like a fatal combination of three
factors: his roommate’s learning his secret, the widespread
exposure of the secret and shame.  For those first two elements, two people have been charged.
But what about the shame?  For people vulnerable to suicide, “the triggering event is
often something that is humiliating or shameful or guilt-
inducing,” says  Lanny Berman , executive director of Washington-
based  American Association of Suicidology .  A respected businessman knows the feds are preparing to
indict him for accounting fraud. A financial adviser sees his
Ponzi scheme coming apart. The picture of themselves presented
to the world is about to be turned inside out.  Shame and Consequences  For gay people, that usually means being outed. That’s why
they are more likely to contemplate and attempt suicide than
heterosexuals, Berman says.  But that’s true only if they are closeted or shunned.  Those who are out in the open about their sexuality and who
feel accepted by their families are no more likely than straight
people to peer into the notion of killing themselves, he says.  Social and religious conservatives fear the consequences of
society accepting homosexuality. But suicides of closeted gay
youth show the deadly consequences of calling it unacceptable.  We don’t know whether Clementi thought of himself as gay or
was merely experimenting. But it’s obvious he believed it
shameful to be seen engaging in sexual conduct with another man.  And for that crime, the guilt is more diffuse.  How about we shine a little light on that?  ( Ann Woolner  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ann Woolner in Atlanta at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  