-- Sukuk Poised for Best Run Since 2007: Islamic Finance
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i   a n d   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2010-10-04T02:31:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/sukuk-set-to-rally-in-fourth-quarter-best-run-since-2007-islamic-finance.html
(Corrects Malaysia bond maturity in 10th paragraph of story
published Oct. 1.)  Islamic bonds are poised to advance
for a fourth straight quarter and post their longest stretch of
gains since 2007 as increased confidence in Persian Gulf
issuers’ ability to pay obligations helps lure funds.  Sukuk handed investors a 4.9 percent return in the third
quarter, according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk
Index , extending a rally of 0.8 percent in the previous three
months and a 5.1 percent gain in the first quarter. The last
time Islamic bonds posted a yearlong winning streak was three
years ago when issuance rose to a record.  Emerging-market bond funds took in $15.2 billion in the
three months to Sept. 30, putting the year’s total at $39.5
billion, according to Cambridge, Massachusetts-based research
firm  EPFR  Global. The combination of declining sukuk sales and
investors’ hunt for higher-yielding assets is spurring demand
for Islamic notes, according to Dubai investment banks Rasmala
Investment Bank Ltd. and Royal Capital PJSC. Dubai World’s
creditors’ accord last month to reorganize $24.9 billion of debt
reduced the risk the state-controlled company will default.  “The rally will continue,”  Azdini Nor Azman , the head of
fixed-income at Bank Muamalat Malaysia Bhd. who helps manage 4
billion ringgit ($1.3 billion) of assets at the Islamic lender
based in Kuala Lumpur, said in a telephone interview yesterday.
“There’s so much liquidity out there and there is just not
enough paper in the market.” Azdini said she expects fourth-
quarter returns will be similar to the past three months.  The  spread  between the average yield for sukuk and the
London interbank offered rate narrowed 65 basis points, or 0.65
percentage point, to 378 in the third quarter after widening by
41 in the previous three months, the HSBC/NASDAQ index shows.  Four-Year Low  Global sales of the bonds, which pay returns from assets to
comply with Shariah law’s ban on interest, have fallen 17
percent to $11.6 billion this year from the same period in 2009,
the lowest in four years, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Issuance totaled $20.2 billion in 2009, $14.1 billion in 2008
and $31 billion in 2007.  Investors “are now seeing more clarity on the situation in
Dubai in particular compared to a year earlier,”  Louis Najem , a
fixed-income trader at Rasmala Investment Bank, said in a Sept.
29 interview from Dubai. The restructuring “is going to be
successful and international investors will be coming back for
more,” he said.  The Persian Gulf plans about $4.8 billion of sukuk sales
for the fourth quarter, more than double the $2.1 billion
estimate for Asian issuance, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Falling Yields  The average yield for sukuk sold by Gulf Cooperation
Council issuers dropped 129 basis points in the third quarter to
6.19 percent, the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai GCC US Dollar Sukuk Index 
shows. The yield climbed to as high as 8.76 percent on Dec. 11,
two weeks after Dubai World announced plans to delay debt
payments.  The gap between the Dubai Department of Finance’s 6.396
sukuk maturing November 2014 and Malaysia’s 3.928 percent note
due June 2015 narrowed 43 basis points in the quarter to 374,
according to prices from the Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  The cost of protecting against a default on debt sold by
Dubai’s government fell last quarter, after rising in the
previous three months. Dubai credit-default swaps declined 59
basis points to 437 in the period, according to data provided by
CMA. They traded below 300 in October 2009.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  ‘Early Days’  “The latest development is indeed positive for Dubai but
it is still early days and the markets will soon be looking for
stronger commitment from both Dubai and Abu Dhabi over the
medium to longer term,”  Takamitsu Oi , a Kuala Lumpur-based fund
manager at Nomura Islamic Asset Management, said in an e-mail
yesterday. “A key indicator that investors are still cautious
about is that the Dubai five-year CDS are still trading” above
430, he said.  Ahmed Talhaoui , the head of portfolio management at Royal
Capital, said in an interview on Sept. 29 that he prefers Middle
Eastern sukuk over Asian notes because they offer higher yields.
Investors will prefer sovereign securities with “clearly
defined cash flow” over corporate debt and equities because
they are worried about weakness in the recovery of U.S. and
European economies, he said.  Japan’s outlook is “anemic” and there’s a high
probability of another recession in the U.S., New York
University Professor Nouriel Roubini told reporters in Kuala
Lumpur on Sept. 27.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Soraya Permatasari  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net ;
 Dana El Baltaji  in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net . 