-- Tsukuba Bank Seeks to Reverse Loss by Cutting Payroll, Closing Branches
-- B y   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o   a n d   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 2010-10-01T02:04:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/tsukuba-bank-aims-to-reverse-loss-as-japanese-regional-lender-cuts-payroll.html
Tsukuba Bank Ltd. , a Japanese
regional lender with deposits of 2 trillion yen ($24 billion),
will cut its head count and branch offices to turn a loss into
profit this year, President  Kozo Kimura  said.  The bank plans to eliminate 150 jobs, or 8 percent of its
payroll, to 1,850 in the next three years, Kimura, 66, said in
an interview at his office yesterday. He will also trim the
number of local branches by 30 to about 120 within a year.  Japanese regional banks are under pressure to slash costs
as the nation’s stagnant economy weighs on demand for business
loans. Tsukuba City, Ibaraki prefecture, where the lender is
based, is north of Tokyo and known as Japan’s research town with
the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency and Tsukuba University
also located there.  “Lending demand looks very weak, particularly from small
and medium-sized companies,” Kimura said. “We need more cost
cuts to achieve our lending target.”  Bank lending  in Japan has fallen for nine straight months
as the economic recovery loses momentum. Companies are funding a
modest increase in  capital spending  with cash on hand, Masayuki
Oku, chairman of the Japan Bankers Association and Sumitomo
Mitsui Financial Group Inc., said on Sept. 21.  Tsukuba Bank, formed through the merger of Kanto Tsukuba
Bank Ltd. and Ibaraki Bank Ltd., had a net loss of 1.5 billion
yen in the year ended March on increased integration costs,
including work to upgrade its computer network. The bank,
forecasting net income of 800 million yen this fiscal year, aims
to boost profit to 5 billion yen by March 2013.  Kimura’s bank plans to increase its loans outstanding to at
least 1.6 trillion yen by March 2013 from 1.46 trillion yen as
of March 31, according to a three-year business plan unveiled in
June.  Tsukuba Bank’s  shares  have fallen 5.4 percent this year,
compared with an 8.5 percent drop in the benchmark  Topix  index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shigeru Sato  in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
 Shingo Kawamoto  at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net . 