-- Nikko Cordial Hires Five Equity Research Staff From Nomura, Mizuho, Daiwa
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2010-10-01T03:32:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/sumitomo-mitsui-hires-5-equity-staff-from-nomura-mizuho-daiwa.html
Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. ,
Japan’s second-largest bank, hired five equity research staff
today from rivals including Nomura Holdings Inc. to build its
brokerage business.  Nikko Cordial Securities Inc. , the investment banking unit
of Sumitomo Mitsui, employed  Shotaro Noguchi , 43, from Nomura as
a senior analyst for the automobile industry and  Jun Kawahara ,
39, from Mizuho Securities Co. to cover retailers, the brokerage
said in a statement e-mailed to Bloomberg News.  Sumitomo Mitsui, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and UBS AG are luring
research talent from rivals to earn more fees from equity-
related business in Japan. The Tokyo-based lender is expanding
its brokerage business after acquiring Nikko Cordial and
investment banking operations from Citigroup Inc. for $6.5
billion last year.  Nikko Cordial also hired three equity research staff from
Daiwa Securities Group Inc., including senior analysts  Hiroki Kawashima  to cover the construction and real estate industry and
 Hiroshi Torii  for real estate investment trusts, the statement
said.  Nozomi Kokubun  joined from Daiwa as an associate for the
banking industry.  The brokerage unit is also expanding abroad, aiming to set
up offices in London, New York and Hong Kong by March 31,
Sumitomo Mitsui Chief Executive Officer  Teisuke Kitayama  said at
an investors’ conference on Sept. 8.  Nikko has increased its equity research head count to 35,
and it plans to hire 15 more staff by Dec. 31, the statement
said.  JPMorgan last month hired  Hiroshi Kamide  from BNP Paribas
SA as a senior analyst for the software and game industry in
Japan. UBS last month hired Naomi Takagi, rated best Japan food
and beverage analyst this year by the Nikkei Veritas newspaper,
from JPMorgan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Takahiko Hyuga  in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  