-- Summers Says Global Economy Should Not Rely on U.S. Consumers
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2010-10-01T18:40:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/summers-says-global-economy-should-not-rely-on-u-s-consumers.html
U.S. trading partners should no
longer rely on American consumers to drive global growth, said
 Lawrence Summers , the departing director of the National
Economic Council.  “The global economy needs to be rebalanced,” Summers said
today in Washington, speaking by video link to an economic
development conference in Yalta, Ukraine. “It can’t have the
United States consumer being the single engine of global
economic growth.”  Summers will return to Harvard University, where he has
served as president and is a professor on a two-year leave, by
the end of the year, the White House said last week. He leaves
the Obama administration’s economic team at a time when the U.S.
is climbing out of the worst recession since the 1930s.  “Growth, while clearly still unsatisfactory, is
positive,” Summers said in response to questions. “The process
of recovery is under way.”  Reports today showed U.S. manufacturing expanded at a
slower pace, while consumer spending increased, underlining the
Federal Reserve’s forecast for a “modest” pace of growth in
coming months.  The Institute for Supply Management’s factory  index  dropped
to 54.4 in September from 56.3 the prior month, the Tempe,
Arizona-based group said today. Readings greater than 50 signal
growth. Consumer purchases increased 0.4 percent in August for a
second month, more than forecast by economists.  Summers also warned nations against interfering in currency
markets. “When governments seek to manipulate exchange rates
for competitive advantage, it rarely ends well,” he said.  The House of Representatives voted this week for a measure
that would let domestic companies petition for duties on imports
from China to compensate for the effect of a weak yuan. China
said the legislation would do nothing to cut the U.S. trade
deficit and only risk harming growth. The Senate won’t take up
its version until after the November election, said Senator
Charles Schumer, a New York Democrat.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  