-- Sweden's Krona, Bond Yields Jump as Data Back Riksbank Tightening Path
-- B y   B o   N i e l s e n   a n d   K i m   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2010-10-01T09:53:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/sweden-yields-krona-jump-as-data-back-riksbank-monetary-tightening-path.html
Swedish yields on benchmark 10-year
debt jumped the most in the European Union today after a string
of indicators underpinned the view that the Riksbank will stick
to its monetary tightening plans.  “The flow of data we have got in the last couple of days
has been extremely good,” said  Fredrik Floric , a Stockholm-
based analyst at Nordea Bank AB. “People expected data would
just roll over but instead they are just sky-rocketing. It’s
reinforcing the view that the Riksbank will raise rates.”  The  central bank ’s rate path indicates it will raise the
benchmark repo rate more than 2 percentage points over the next
two years to about 3 percent.  Manufacturing expanded  for a 16th
consecutive month in September, with the purchasing managers’
index jumping 2.7 points to 63.3, a report showed today.
Consumer and business confidence surged to the highest in a
decade last month, as the government estimates Sweden’s economy
will deliver the biggest rebound in the EU this year.  “We were stunned by the data,” said  Roger Josefsson ,
Danske Bank A/S chief economist in Stockholm, in an interview.
“We’ve all seen the U.S. and also European data being a bit
worse over the last couple of months so we wouldn’t have been
too surprised if Sweden’s export industry suffered from that,
but so far we haven’t seen it.”  Yields Jump  The yield on Sweden’s 10-year government bond jumped 5
basis points to 2.57 percent. The yield on the two-year bond
gained 4 basis points to 1.45 percent.  “We see no reason to expect less than 25 basis-point steps
in hiking at the coming two to three Riksbank meetings,” a team
of analysts at Danske Bank led by  Michael Bostroem , based in
Stockholm, said in a note today.  Policy makers raised the repo rate a quarter point to 0.75
percent at their Sept. 1 meeting. The bank on Sept. 2 reiterated
its forecast that the repo rate will average 2.1 percent about a
year from now, and 3.1 percent in the third quarter of 2012.  Sweden’s economy will grow 4.5 percent this year, the
government said on Aug. 20, recouping most of last year’s 5.1
percent contraction.  “Sweden is export-dependent and we can’t stimulate the
economy much more than we have already done and if this weaker
phase continues in Europe, which it probably will, Sweden is
going to suffer,” Josefsson said. “But the starting position
is better than most other countries, so that’s also beneficial
for Swedish financial markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bo Nielsen  in Copenhagen at 
 bnielsen4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  