-- Swiss Stocks Are Little Changed; Roche, ABB Increase as Swatch Decreases
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2010-10-01T16:21:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/swiss-stocks-fluctuate-abb-roche-climb-as-swatch-julius-baer-retreat.html
Swiss stocks were little changed, as
gains in Roche Holding AG and  ABB Ltd . offset a decline in
Swatch AG.  Roche, the world’s biggest maker of cancer treatments,
gained 1 percent after a study showed its MabThera medicine
helped prolong the lives of patients with the second-most common
form of leukemia. ABB, the world’s biggest builder of power-
transmission networks, increased 0.7 percent. Swatch, the
world’s biggest maker of watches, slipped 4 percent after its
chief executive officer said the U.S. dollar’s weakness will
reduce net income.  The benchmark  Swiss Market Index  was little changed, losing
0.2 percent to 6,284.17 at the 5:30 p.m. close in Zurich, after
swinging between gains and losses at least 15 times. The gauge
lost 1.2 percent this week. The broader  Swiss Performance Index 
also fell 0.2 today.  Chinese manufacturing expanded at the fastest pace in four
months in September, adding to signs that economic growth is
stabilizing. China’s purchasing managers’ index rose to 53.8
from 51.7 in August, the logistics federation and statistics
bureau said in an e-mail. None of the 15 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News forecast such a large gain. Readings above 50
mean that manufacturing expanded.  “The Chinese manufacturing figure is certainly giving the
market a boost today,” said  Henrik Drusebjerg , a senior
strategist at Nordea Investment Management in Copenhagen. “Some
investors are less fearful of a double dip and when they look at
the alternatives, equities are looking more attractive.”  Roche Advances  Roche , which makes up 12 percent of the SMI’s weighting,
climbed 1 percent to 135.60 Swiss francs, the shares’ third
straight gain, after the Lancet published a study showing that
about 87 percent of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia,
or CLL, who were given MabThera and chemotherapy were alive
three years after treatment, compared with 83 percent of
patients given chemotherapy alone.  ABB, which made 27 percent of its 2009 revenue from Asia,
according to Bloomberg data, climbed 0.7 percent to 20.86
francs, erasing yesterday’s 0.4 percent slide.  Swatch slipped 4 percent to 355.10 francs, erasing three
days of gains. Chief Executive Officer  Nick Hayek Jr.  said the
weakness of the dollar against the franc is cutting into profit,
Blick reported. Every 1 centime appreciation of the franc
against the dollar cuts 20 million francs to 30 million francs
from net income, Hayek told the newspaper.  Julius Baer Falls  Julius Baer , the 120-year-old Swiss private bank, fell 0.5
percent to 35.60 francs, down 6.6 percent in the past five days.
The bank was cut to “market perform” from “outperform” at
Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Inc. The Swiss and German authorities
may soon agree to a tax protocol, which could include
information sharing and withholding taxes. The brokerage wrote,
“We worry that Baer, with its historical focus on offshore
private banking, will be more vulnerable to any adverse
sentiment than more diversified peers.”  Holcim Ltd. , the world’s second-biggest cement maker, slid
1.6 percent to 62.10 francs, its fifth consecutive loss. Its
price estimate and earnings estimate were cut by HSBC Holdings
Plc. The brokerage anticipated a more “subdued” U.S. recovery
and pressure on operating margins in emerging markets.  Schmolz & Bickenbach AG  tumbled 14 percent to 24.80 francs,
the stock’s largest drop since October 2008. The company plans
to raise 297.22 million francs ($304.47 million) through a share
sale guaranteed by a group of banks, according to a company
statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Adam Ewing  in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 