-- U.S. Consumer Sentiment Index Reading of 68.2 Exceeds Estimates
-- B y   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n
-- 2010-10-01T14:23:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/u-s-consumer-confidence-declines-less-than-forecast-michigan-index-shows.html
Confidence among U.S. consumers
declined less than forecast, evidence the largest part of the
economy may be stabilizing.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final  index  of
consumer sentiment fell to 68.2 from 68.9 in August. The gauge
was projected to decline to 67, according to the median forecast
in a  Bloomberg News survey  of economists, and compares with a
preliminary reading of 66.6 issued last month.  The confidence gauge, together with a report earlier today
showing that purchases rose more than forecast in August,
reduces the odds that a slump in household demand will derail
the recovery. Even so, unemployment near a 26-year high is
making shoppers cautious, forcing companies such as  Best Buy Co. 
to discount merchandise.  “It’s employment that’s really driving the focus for the
consumer,” David Sloan, senior economist at 4Cast Inc. in New
York, said before the report. “Some improvement in employment
will lead to some improvement in spending but not great
strength.”  Consumer purchases rose 0.4 percent for a second month,
Commerce Department figures showed today in Washington. The gain
exceeded the 0.3 percent increase projected by the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Incomes were
up 0.5 percent, the biggest advance this year, propelled by the
resumption of extended and emergency unemployment benefits as
wage gains cooled.  The confidence index averaged 89 in the five years leading
up to the recession that began in December 2007. It has yet to
reach that level since the recovery began in June 2009.  The confidence survey’s measure of current conditions,
which reflects Americans’ perceptions of their financial
situation and whether it is a good time to buy big-ticket items
like cars, rose to 79.6 from 78.3 in August.  Expectations Decline  The index of consumer  expectations  for six months from now,
which more closely projects the direction of consumer spending,
decreased to 60.9, the lowest since March 2009, from 62.9.  The world’s largest economy expanded at a 1.7 percent
annual rate in the second quarter, the Commerce Department said
yesterday, after growing 3.7 percent the first months of the
year and 5 percent at the end of 2009.  Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News last month lowered
their forecasts for growth in the second half of the year to an
average 2.1 percent and said there was a 20 percent chance the
economy will slide into another recession.  “We know it is a tough environment out there,” Best Buy 
Chief Executive Officer  Brian Dunn  told reporters Sept. 28. “It
will be hard fought.”  Phone Promotions  Richfield, Minnesota-based Best Buy, the world’s largest
consumer-electronics retailer, announced Sept. 28 it plans to
offer a promotion on every Friday in October to spur sales of
phones. Best Buy said it plans to keep holiday hiring even with
last year, adding about 29,000 seasonal employees.  Consumers in today’s survey said they expect an inflation
rate of 2.2 percent over the next 12 months, the lowest in a
year and down from 2.7 percent in August.  Over the next five years, the figures tracked by Federal
Reserve policy makers, Americans expect a 2.7 percent rate of
inflation, compared with 2.8 percent the prior month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  