-- U.S. Envoy Mitchell Searching for Formula to Keep Middle East Talks Alive
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2010-10-01T09:40:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/u-s-envoy-mitchell-searching-for-formula-to-keep-middle-east-talks-alive.html
U.S. Middle East envoy  George Mitchell  meets with Israeli and Palestinian leaders today amid
reports both sides rejected the Obama administration’s latest
proposals to keep alive peace talks.  Mitchell is scheduled to meet Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  in Jerusalem and then Palestinian Authority President
 Mahmoud Abbas  in Ramallah. Netanyahu allowed a 10-month partial
moratorium on construction in the West Bank to expire on Sept.
26, while Abbas has said he won’t pursue talks with building
under way.  “We are determined to continue our efforts to find common
ground between the parties to enable the direct negotiations to
continue,” Mitchell said after meeting Abbas yesterday.  Netanyahu has rejected an Obama administration proposal to
extend the freeze on West Bank settlement building in return for
U.S. security guarantees, Haaretz reported today, citing
unidentified “senior American officials.” Netanyahu’s
spokesman  Mark Regev  said Israel would not comment on the
content of the discussions with Mitchell.  The U.S. guaranteed to help Israel maintain security after
a Palestinian state is established along its eastern border in
the Jordan valley in order to prevent arms smuggling into the
area, according to a  report published  this week on the website
of the Washington Institute for Near East Policy, an independent
research center.  The Obama administration was frustrated by the Israeli
refusal and did not accept that the prime minister was
constrained by political difficulties, Haaretz reported. Most of
the parties in Netanyahu’s governing coalition, including his
own Likud faction, support building in the settlements.  Palestinian Offer  The Obama administration has also offered Abbas explicit
support for a Palestinian state based on the 1967 borders, if he
agrees to continue direct talks with Israel after the end of the
building freeze, the daily  Maariv said . Abbas has turned down
the proposal, Maariv reported, without saying how it obtained
the information.  Netanyahu faces pressure from European governments
including the U.K. and France, which have expressed regret
Israel didn’t extend the building freeze. Netanyahu and Abbas
are scheduled to meet today with the European Union’s foreign
policy chief,  Catherine Ashton .  Israeli building crews began work this week at settlements
including Ariel, Oranit, Tekoa and Adam, according to  Naftali Bennett , director-general of the Yesha Council, which represents
more than 300,000 settlers in the West Bank.  West Bank  The freeze, declared by Netanyahu in November in what he
said was a bid to bring Palestinians to the negotiating table,
excluded about 3,000 homes as well as some public buildings.  Israel has built about 120 settlements in the West Bank
since the late 1960s. Another 100 smaller settlements, which
Israel calls outposts, were built during the past decade.  The United Nations says the settlements are illegal, and
the International Committee of the Red Cross says they breach
the Fourth Geneva Convention governing actions on occupied
territory. President  Barack Obama  has said the settlements
aren’t legitimate.  Israel says the settlements don’t fall under the convention
because the territory wasn’t recognized as belonging to anyone
before the 1967 war, in which Israel prevailed, and therefore
isn’t occupied.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 