-- Waterproofgate: U.S. Ryder Cup Team Tosses Leaky Sun Mountain Rain Suits
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2010-10-01T18:23:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/u-s-ryder-cup-team-all-wet-with-official-rain-suits-buys-replacements.html
The U.S. Ryder Cup team’s rain suits
left the golfers all wet as downpours forced a suspension of
today’s opening matches in Wales.  After players complained that their  Sun Mountain  brand
pants and jackets weren’t performing well, the PGA of America
bought new apparel for competitors and caddies in the
merchandise tent at the Celtic Manor course near Newport.  “We were disappointed with the performance of them, and
you know, we just fixed it,” U.S. team captain  Corey Pavin  told
reporters during a morning rain delay. “They were not doing
what we wanted them to do, so we went out and bought some more
waterproofs.”  In a statement, Missoula, Montana-based Sun Mountain Inc.
said the company has been “designing and selling outerwear for
more than two decades,” and has provided rainwear to 3,000-plus
PGA of America professionals and over 150 tour players. The
company, which also outfitted the 2000 U.S. Walker Cup and 2009
Presidents Cup teams, said it has staff at the event “working
on the issue.”  The tan rain suits the U.S. team purchased, made by  ProQuip
Inc ., feature only the Ryder Cup logo. The team’s Sun Mountain
suits were emblazoned with U.S.A. letters and players’ last
names on the back. ProQuip, based in Edinburgh, Scotland, is the
official supplier of the European team’s rain suits.  Pavin’s Choice  Julius Mason , a spokesman for the PGA of America, said in a
telephone interview that he didn’t know how much the new suits
cost. He said Sun Mountain wasn’t an official licensing partner
of the PGA and that the choice of the suits was Pavin’s alone.  ProQuip jackets sell for 129 pounds ($204) and pants 69
pounds ($109) inside the merchandise tent. ProQuip
representative Gary Firkins said in a telephone interview that
the U.S. team was given 25-30 rainsuits and will be billed for
them later.  “These were not normal playing conditions,” Firkins said.
“It was just a matter of choosing the right waterproofs for
extreme conditions. And the European team did that.”  Play began at 7:45 a.m. local time in the rain, with winds
of as much as 26 miles per hour (42 kilometer per hour)
forecast, according to the U.K. Met Office. The competition
resumed after a delay of more than seven hours.  Play was suspended by darkness with none of the first
matches finished, and tournament officials said they would
change the format of tomorrow’s portion to try to shorten play
and complete the event as scheduled on Oct. 3.  Puddles  The rain was heavy at times, forming puddles on the
fairways and greens, with groundskeepers using squeegees on the
putting surface, before play was stopped.  “It’s as bad as I’ve ever played in,” U.S. team member
 Stewart Cink  said in an interview with ESPN. “It was awful.
It’s a huge challenge for everybody.”  Cink, who has an endorsement agreement with Nike Inc., said
the team had no choice but to replace their Sun Mountain rain
suits.  “The volume of the rain coming down just inundated our
rain gear,” he said. “When it starts to get in your shirt and
you start to get cold, you have to do something.”  Following the conclusion of the 2008 matches in Kentucky,
then-European captain  Nick Faldo  warned those traveling to Wales
to “bring your waterproofs.”  Tiger Woods , one of four late captain’s picks for the U.S.
team, chose not to wear the Sun Mountain rain jacket during
early play. Instead, he wore a black long-sleeve shirt under a
collared golf shirt and sweater vest. Woods also has an
endorsement agreement with Nike.  The U.S. holds the Ryder Cup after winning in 2008, but the
Europeans are the bookmakers’ favorite. The Americans haven’t
won overseas since 1993.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Buteau  in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 