-- U.S., Russia Close to Reaching Agreement on Missile Defense, Lavrov Says
-- B y   L u c i a n   K i m
-- 2010-10-01T10:19:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/u-s-russia-close-to-reaching-agreement-on-missile-defense-lavrov-says.html
Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  said the U.S. and Russia are close to reaching an
agreement on missile defense, the “hot potato” issue that has
held up a new arms control accord between the two countries.  Presidents  Barack Obama  and  Dmitry Medvedev , who last met
in June, agreed to come up with a joint expert review on the
risks of missile proliferation, Lavrov said today in an
interview published in  Rossiiskaya Gazeta , the Russian
government’s official newspaper.  “The paper should be ready soon,” Lavrov said. The next
step will then be to examine common responses, together with the
Europeans, beginning with diplomacy and not excluding military
force, the foreign minister said.  U.S. missile defense plans were a cause for the
deterioration of relations under former President  George W. Bush , and Senate opposition to a new nuclear arms-reduction
treaty centers on concern the treaty will cripple America’s
ability to develop a missile shield. The Obama administration
has dismissed the criticism as unfounded as it seeks to win
greater Russian cooperation on Iran and Afghanistan.  While Lavrov said missile defense remains a “hot potato,”
he praised the improvement in ties since the Obama
administration called for a “reset” in relations last year.  Rapprochement  Russia has welcomed the rapprochement, avoiding a harsh
reaction to a summer spy scandal, in which 10 alleged Russian
agents were deported from the U.S., and glossing over Secretary
of State  Hillary Clinton ’s reiteration in July of plans to speed
up a missile defense system in Poland. Russian Defense Minister
 Anatoly Serdyukov  paid his first visit to the Pentagon in
September, pledging closer cooperation with his U.S. counterpart
 Robert Gates .  “You need to present your positions in talks, not through
the microphone as was so often the case with the previous
administration,” said Lavrov. “The more we strengthen the
fabric of our trade, investment and innovation relations, the
firmer the Russian-American partnership will become.”  Medvedev, who is seeking American experience and capital to
build a Russian “Silicon Valley” outside Moscow, has been
willing to support U.S. policies on Iran and Afghanistan in
return. Russia’s support for tighter UN sanctions against Iran
because of its nuclear program this summer was “not an isolated
action,” Lavrov said.  “I think Iran clearly heard the opinion of the
international community,” said Lavrov, adding there’s “reason
to believe” that Iran will soon return to talks in the “P5
Plus One” format including the U.S., U.K., France, Russia,
China and Germany.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lucian Kim  in Moscow at 
 lkim3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  