-- Manufacturing in U.S. Probably Grew More Slowly in September
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2010-10-01T11:30:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/u-s-manufacturing-probably-grew-in-september-at-slowest-pace-in-10-months.html
Manufacturing probably expanded in
September at the slowest pace in 10 months, underscoring the
Federal Reserve’s forecast of “modest” U.S. growth, economists
said before reports today.  The Institute for Supply Management’s  factory index  dropped
to 54.5 from 56.3 in August, according to the median estimate of
83 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Readings greater than
50 signal growth. Other reports may show consumer confidence
fell, construction dropped for a fourth straight month, and
consumer spending cooled.  Companies such as  Cisco Systems Inc.  are seeing signs of
slower growth and limited hiring in the U.S. even as
manufacturers benefit from improving overseas markets. Noting
smaller gains in business investment, the  Fed  last week said it
stands ready to do more to ensure the world’s largest economy
keeps growing.  The slowdown in manufacturing “appears orderly,” said
 Ryan Sweet , a senior economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in West
Chester, Pennsylvania. “Additional monetary stimulus may be
needed, especially if the downshift in manufacturing
intensifies.”  The Tempe, Arizona-based ISM’s report is due at 10 a.m. New
York time. Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from 51.5 to
57.  China Manufacturing  China’s manufacturing expanded in September at the fastest
pace in four months, a separate report showed today. The
purchasing managers’  index  rose to 53.8 from an August reading
of 51.7, China’s logistics federation and statistics bureau said
in an e-mail.  Growth in  European manufacturing  slowed. A gauge of
manufacturing in the 16-nation euro region declined to 53.7 in
September from 55.1 the previous month, London-based Markit
Economics said today.  As U.S. manufacturing cools, a renewed slowdown in the
housing market following the expiration of a homebuyer incentive
is depressing construction.  Spending  on all projects dropped 0.4
percent in August after a 1 percent decline a month earlier,
according to the median estimate of economists surveyed before a
Commerce Department report at 10 a.m.  American consumers were  less optimistic  in September, a
Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan survey is forecast to
show at 9:55 a.m. New York time. The median estimate in the
Bloomberg survey is for a final September reading of 67, the
weakest since August 2009, down from 68.9 a month earlier.  Spending and Income  Consumers are reining in purchases, a Commerce Department
report at 8:30 a.m. may show. Spending rose 0.3 percent in
August after a 0.4 percent gain, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Incomes  may have increased 0.3
percent after a 0.2 percent rise, the survey showed.  The economic recovery from the worst recession since the
1930s that began in June 2009 has been led by manufacturing as
exports climbed, business investment improved and inventories
were replenished. The rebuilding of stockpiles has since slowed.  Shares of manufacturers have gained this year compared with
the broader index. The Standard & Poor’s  Supercomposite
Industrial Machinery Index  has increased 24 percent this year
through yesterday, while the S&P 500 has gained 2.3 percent.  Regional measures of manufacturing have been mixed.
Factories in the  New York  region expanded in September at the
slowest pace since July 2009, while those in the Philadelphia
area contracted for a second month, according to regional Fed
surveys. Figures from the  Institute for Supply Management-
Chicago Inc . yesterday showed business activity in the U.S.
unexpectedly accelerated in September.  ‘Modest’ Recovery  “The pace of economic recovery is likely to be modest in
the near term,” the Fed said Sept. 21 after its policy meeting.
“Business spending on equipment and software is rising, though
less rapidly than earlier in the year.”  To help spur employment and as his approval rating suffers,
President Barack Obama last month proposed a package of $180
billion in business tax breaks and infrastructure spending.  The economy is a top issue for voters in the November
congressional elections, and polls show the public is
increasingly skeptical of Obama’s performance.  Cisco Chief Executive Officer  John Chambers  said last week
in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness With
 Margaret Brennan ” that economic conditions appeared “a little
bit bumpy.”  Cisco Customers  The San Jose, California-based company “saw the market
returning to more normal growth rates,” he said. Most chief
executives Cisco talks to are projecting U.S. growth of 2
percent or less “and that means they’ll probably spend
appropriately and also hire appropriately,” he said.  At the same time, “Asia’s still going strong and Europe is
holding up remarkably well,” Chambers said. Cisco is the
world’s largest maker of networking equipment.  Automakers including  Ford Motor Co . are among manufacturers
that see sales picking up while holding below pre-recession
levels.  “The auto business is pretty steady and coming back up a
little bit,” Ford Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  told
reporters in Ann Arbor, Michigan, on Sept. 17. The economy “is
coming back slower than past recessions.”  
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  