-- U.S. Holiday Sales to Climb 3% to 3.5%, ICSC Says
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2010-10-01T16:18:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/u-s-retailers-holiday-sales-to-climb-3-to-3-5-icsc-says.html
U.S. retailers’ sales will climb 3
percent to 3.5 percent this holiday season, the best performance
since 2006, as the economy improves, the International Council
of Shopping Centers said.  The gain for November and December is consistent with the
year-to-date climb of 3.5 percent,  Mike Niemira , the ICSC’s
chief economist, said in an e-mail today. His New York-based
trade group tracks sales at stores open at least a year at more
than 30 chains.  The winter holidays are typically the biggest shopping
season for U.S. retailers. Companies including Toys ‘R’ Us Inc.,
the world’s biggest toy retailer, are hiring more staff to cope
with demand over that period as consumers begin buying again,
rebounding from the worst recession since the 1930s.  “We’re pretty upbeat about this season,” said  Richard Hastings , a Charlotte, North Carolina-based consumer strategist
with Global Hunter Securities LLC. “We have another month or a
month and a half before things get better than they are right
now. Spending will be significantly better in mid-December going
into January.”  Consumer outlays rose more than forecast in August as
incomes surged, according to data from the Commerce Department.
Those purchases account for about 70 percent of the U.S.
economy.  Doubling Workforce  Toys ‘R’ Us , based in Wayne, New Jersey, said this week
that it would hire about 45,000 seasonal employees, doubling its
U.S. workforce, to cope with holiday demand. The increase in
seasonal employees is 10,000 more than last year.  Best Buy Co.,  the world’s largest consumer-electronics
retailer, said mobile phones, Internet-connected televisions and
tablet computers such as Apple Inc.’s iPad will be among its
top-selling items.  The Richfield, Minnesota-based company released its
predictions Sept. 28 after conducting an online survey of almost
1,000 people in August. Best Buy plans to spur sales of phones
with a promotion that started today. It is giving away a free
smartphone with a two-year contract.  Total retail sales in November and December account for 20
percent to 40 percent of U.S. retailers’ annual revenue,
according to the National Retail Federation, a Washington-based
trade group. The 2009 fourth quarter accounted for almost all of
 Macy’s  Inc.’s profit that year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cotten Timberlake  in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  