-- U.S. Judge Delays Ahmed Ghailani Embassy Bombing Trial 2 Days Till Oct. 6
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2010-10-01T17:36:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/u-s-judge-delays-ahmed-ghailani-embassy-bombing-trial-two-days-oct-6.html
The federal judge presiding over the
trial of  Ahmed Khalfan Ghailani , a Tanzanian charged with taking
part in the bombing of two American embassies in Africa, delayed
the case by two days until Oct. 6.  U.S. District Judge  Lewis Kaplan  in New York today granted
a prosecution request to postpone the trial, for which jury
selection started Sept. 29. Kaplan said he may grant a delay if
he rules a key prosecution witness, Hussein Abebe, can’t
testify. The adjournment would give the government time to
appeal that ruling before the trial.  Ghailani, an alleged al-Qaeda terrorist and the first
Guantanamo Bay detainee to be tried in a U.S. civilian court, is
charged with participating in a global conspiracy with  Osama bin Laden  that includes the Aug. 7, 1998, bombings at U.S. embassies
in Tanzania and Kenya that killed 224 people, including 12
Americans. =  He faces 286 federal counts and up to life in prison if
convicted of the most serious charge of conspiracy to kill U.S.
nationals.  Prosecutors want to call Abebe, 46, a Tanzanian who is
former miner, to testify that he sold five crates of dynamite to
Ghailani before the blast. He would provide a first-hand account
of Ghailani’s role in the attacks, the government says.  Abebe, who hasn’t been charged, is a “giant” witness,
according to prosecutors. The judge said earlier he may not
decide until after opening arguments whether the jury should
hear Abebe’s testimony.  Defense Arguments  Ghailani’s lawyers argue that Abebe’s testimony should be
excluded because the government learned of his involvement
through a coercive interrogation of Ghailani by the CIA. Abebe
also was coerced into cooperating with authorities, according to
the defense attorneys, led by Peter Quijano and Steve Zissou,  Ghailani, who pleaded not guilty in June 2009, is accused
of helping deliver bomb-making components, including TNT and
oxygen tanks, in a truck detonated outside the U.S. embassy in
Dar es Salaam in Tanzania.  He fled Africa and was captured in Pakistan in July 2004,
then held and questioned by the CIA for more than two years, the
U.S. has said in court papers.  In September 2006, he was transferred to Guantanamo Bay by
the Department of Defense. In June 2009, the U.S. transferred
him to federal court in New York for trial.  At a hearing two weeks ago, Kaplan said he was concerned
about inconsistencies in Abebe’s testimony on his detention and
the circumstances of his questioning in August 2006 by U.S. and
Tanzanian officials.  The case is U.S. v. Ghailani, 98-cr-1023, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York
at  pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  