-- U.S., Europe Increase Pressure on Israelis, Palestinians to Save Talks
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d   a n d   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2010-10-01T15:07:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/u-s-europe-increase-pressure-on-israelis-palestinians-to-save-talks.html
International pressure on Israel and
the Palestinians to resolve a dispute over Israeli construction
in Jewish settlements escalated today amid reports both sides
rejected the latest U.S. proposals to keep peace talks alive.  U.S. envoy  George Mitchell  held a second round of
discussions today with Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu 
and Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas . The European
Union’s foreign policy chief,  Catherine Ashton , also met the two
leaders.  “We are determined to continue our efforts to find common
ground between the parties to enable the direct negotiations to
continue,” Mitchell said after meeting Abbas yesterday.  Netanyahu allowed a 10-month partial moratorium on
construction in the West Bank to expire on Sept. 26, while Abbas
has said he won’t pursue talks with building under way. The
Israeli leader said in a statement today that he was working
with Mitchell to try to keep negotiations on track.  Netanyahu rejected an Obama administration proposal to
extend the partial freeze on West Bank settlement building in
return for U.S. security guarantees, Haaretz reported today,
citing unidentified senior U.S. officials. Netanyahu’s
spokesman,  Mark Regev , said Israel wouldn’t comment on the
content of the discussions with Mitchell.  The U.S. guaranteed to help Israel maintain security after
a Palestinian state is established along its eastern border in
the Jordan Valley, in order to prevent arms smuggling into the
area, according to a  report published  this week on the website
of the Washington Institute for Near East Policy, an independent
research center.  Rejection by Abbas  The U.S. also offered Abbas explicit support for a
Palestinian state based on the 1967 borders, if he agrees to
continue direct talks with Israel after the end of the building
freeze,  Maariv said . Abbas has turned down the proposal, the
Israeli daily reported, without saying how it obtained the
information.  Palestinian negotiator Nabil Shaath said Abbas would accept
nothing less than a continuation of the construction moratorium.
“Even that is a compromise,” he said in a telephone interview.
“It is not a watertight or airtight arrangement. We seek a
total freeze on building.”  Lieberman’s UN Speech  The Obama administration was frustrated by the Israeli
refusal to extend the moratorium and didn’t accept that
Netanyahu was constrained by political difficulties, Israel’s
Haaretz newspaper reported. Those difficulties were highlighted
this week in a speech by Israeli Foreign Minister  Avigdor Lieberman  at the United Nations in which he voiced expectations
that it would take “decades” to achieve peace.  Lieberman’s party, the second-largest in Netanyahu’s
coalition, joins most of the parties in the government,
including Netanyahu’s own Likud faction, that support building
in the settlements.  Netanyahu also faces pressure from European governments
including the U.K. and France, which have expressed regret that
Israel didn’t extend the building freeze.  “I have urged Israel to continue the moratorium,” Ashton
told reporters in Jerusalem before leaving the region.  Yossi Beilin, the former deputy foreign minister who helped
negotiate the 1993 Oslo Accords, said Netanyahu is holding back
on extending the freeze and waiting for “the highest price.”  “Nobody will convince me that it was possible to get a
consensus for 10 months and now it’s impossible to get a two-
month extension, when Obama is saying, ‘I have new gifts for
you,’” said Beilin, who now heads the business consulting
company Beilink. “Netanyahu is not bringing the proposal to the
inner Cabinet of seven ministers not because there is no
majority but because he wants something more than that.”  Fatah, Hamas Rift  Gidi Grinstein, a former Israeli negotiator, said it’s in
the Palestinians’ interest for the talks to fall apart.  “The Palestinians are now in a historic constitutional
crisis with the rift between Fatah and Hamas and the split
between the West Bank and Gaza Strip,” said Grinstein, now head
of the Reut Institute policy and strategy group in Tel Aviv.
“They dread a political process that will lead them to a moment
of truth: that they will have to ratify in the absence of a
parliament.”  Hamas seized full control of the Gaza Strip in 2007, ending
a partnership government with Abbas’s Fatah party that began
after Hamas won a majority in Palestinian parliamentary
elections the previous year. The Islamic militant group is
considered a terrorist organization by the U.S., the European
Union and Israel.  Construction Resumes  The freeze, declared by Netanyahu in November in what he
said was a bid to bring Palestinians to the negotiating table,
excluded about 3,000 homes as well as some public buildings.  Israeli building crews began work this week at settlements
including Ariel, Oranit, Tekoa and Adam, according to  Naftali Bennett , director-general of the Yesha Council, which represents
more than 300,000 settlers in the West Bank.  Israel has built about 120 settlements in the West Bank
since the late 1960s. Another 100 smaller settlements, which
Israel calls outposts, were built during the past decade.  The United Nations says the settlements are illegal, and
the International Committee of the Red Cross says they breach
the Fourth Geneva Convention governing actions on occupied
territory. President  Barack Obama  has said the settlements
aren’t legitimate.  Israel says the settlements don’t fall under the convention
because the territory wasn’t recognized as belonging to anyone
before the 1967 war, in which Israel prevailed, and therefore
isn’t occupied.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net ;
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 