-- U.S. East Coast Rain Storm Snarls Roads, Air Traffic
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2010-10-01T19:05:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/u-s-east-coast-hit-by-heavy-rains-power-outages-amid-warnings-of-floods.html
A storm lashing the U.S. East Coast
with rain and high winds snarled road and air traffic around New
York as streets flooded and flights were canceled.  “Parts of the city saw residual traffic delays from
flooding, but the worst of the weather is behind us,” Seth
Andrews, a spokesman with the New York City Office of  Emergency
Management , said in a telephone interview.  The storm left thousands without power and dropped more
than a foot of rain in parts of Maryland and North Carolina,
where four people were also reported killed. As the system
pulled away from the region and crews took to the streets, New
York’s roads dried and traffic started flowing normally again.  The Harlem River  Drive offramp from the George Washington
Bridge was closed due to flooding and water blocked two
northbound lanes on FDR Drive at 71st Street, as well as two
lanes of the Brooklyn Queens Expressway (I-278) by Atlantic
Avenue, according to  Navteq.com , a traffic website.  City workers cleared sewers letting the water drain and got
traffic moving again at those locations, as well as on the Grand
Central Parkway and Van Wyck Expressway, Police Sergeant  Carlos Nieves  said.  As of 12:35 p.m. there were no road closures left because
of the storm, said Andrews of the Office of Emergency Management.  Lincoln Tunnel  Drivers taking the Lincoln Tunnel into the city early today
experienced 45-minute delays, with outgoing traffic held as long
as 10 minutes, Sara Joren, a spokeswoman for the Port Authority
of New York & New Jersey, said in a telephone interview.  Flights to New York’s LaGuardia Airport were delayed as
long as 2 hours and 17 minutes, as of about 2 p.m. East Coast
time, according to the Federal Aviation Administration’s
website. Delays of more than 3 hours were reported at Newark’s
Liberty International Airport and 75 minutes at John F. Kennedy
International Airport.  A wind gust of 52 mph was recorded at Newark early today,
according to the weather service. A 51 mph gust was clocked at
LaGuardia.  Delta Air Lines Inc.,   AMR Corp.’s  American Airlines,
Continental Airlines Inc. and US Airways Group Inc. had
cancelled 44 flights so far today, according to statements.  In addition, 71 flights by regional carriers flying under
the U.S. Airways Express name were also scrubbed, said  Todd Lehmacher , a spokesman for the Tempe, Arizona-based airline.  “In Philadelphia, we are experiencing improving conditions
and anticipate less of an impact as the day progresses,” he
said.  Central Park  New York’s Central Park recorded 3.08 inches (7.8
centimeters) of rain as of 8 a.m. and Cold Spring, New York,
about 55 miles (88.5 kilometers) north of the city, received
6.25 inches, the highest so far in the region, said Kyle
Struckmann, a  National Weather Service  meteorologist in Upton,
New York. About 3,300 customers around New York were without
power, according to Consolidated Edison Inc.’s website.  “It looks like we’re past the worst of it,” Struckmann
said. “We’re probably going to get another episode of rain but
it will not be as significant as we had early this morning.”  The rain and wind will be pushing north and east throughout
the day, Struckmann said. Tomorrow’s forecast for New York calls
for sunny skies with a high temperature of 68 degrees Fahrenheit
(20 degrees Celsius), according to the weather service.  Flood warnings and watches still stretch from Maine to
Maryland, as utilities and residents start the clean up process.
In Philadelphia, 15,000 were without power, according to  Karen Muldoon , a spokeswoman for  Peco Energy Co ., which is owned by
Exelon Corp.  Four Deaths  In New Bern-Craven County airport in North Carolina, 12.07
inches of rain fell, according to the weather service. Wakefield
Municipal Airport in Virginia recorded 10.94 inches. Patuxent
River Naval Air Station in Maryland reported 9.17 inches.  Four people, including two children, were killed after
their vehicle slid off U.S. 64 and into a flooded ditch in North
Carolina, the Raleigh News & Observer reported.  Flood warnings were in place in Baltimore and Washington,
where authorities handed sandbags to residents yesterday. Parts
of New York, New Jersey, Virginia, Delaware and the Carolinas
were warned to expect further flooding.  “We expect to see more flooding along the rivers
throughout the next two or three days,” North Carolina State
Emergency Management Director Doug Hoell said in an online
 statement . “We’re not out of the woods yet.”  The Schuylkill River in Philadelphia was expected to crest
2.8 feet above flood stage later today, according to the weather
service.  The Delaware River  in Callicoon, New York, was expected
to crest 2.5 feet above flood stage this afternoon.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian K. Sullivan  in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Burkhardt  in New York at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  