-- Ukraine Court Rolls Back Orange Revolution, Overturns Limits on President
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a   a n d   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 2010-10-01T12:43:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/ukraine-court-overturns-limit-on-presidential-power-from-orange-revolution.html
Ukraine’s Constitutional Court
overturned restraints on presidential power approved during the
Orange Revolution, strengthening the authority of current head
of state  Viktor Yanukovych .  The 2004 constitutional amendments were illegal because the
court didn’t review the measures before parliament approved
them, Chairman Anatoliy Holovin said today in Kiev. The court
ordered lawmakers to restore the 1996 constitution, under which
the president chooses the prime minister and Cabinet.  The court “has de facto changed the constitution,” said
 Yuriy Yakymenko , an analyst at the Razumkov Center for Economic
and Political Studies in Kiev. “There is a 90 percent
probability that the 1996 constitution will be renewed
automatically.”  Lawmakers passed the amendments in December 2004 under
pressure from then-President  Leonid Kuchma , who sought to limit
the powers of Orange Revolution leader  Viktor Yushchenko  if he
became president. Millions had poured into the streets after
Yanukovych, Kuchma’s chosen successor and a supporter of closer
ties with Russia, defeated Yushchenko in an election the Supreme
Court later annulled because of fraud.  Kuchma refused to approve changes to the electoral law to
prevent fraud during a re-run of the contest unless lawmakers
approved the amendments. At the time, Kuchma’s allies controlled
parliament.  1996 Again  Yushchenko eventually won the 2004 contest and served as
president until February this year, when Yanukovych unseated
him. Yanukovych has the support of 264 members of parliament.  Yanukovych ousted Prime Minister  Yulia Tymoshenko  in March
after parliament approved a no-confidence motion. The president
then appointed  Mykola Azarov  as prime minister with the support
of 242 members of parliament. Tymoshenko said at the time that
the changes were unconstitutional.  Under the amendments overturned today, the president is
mainly in charge of foreign policy and appoints the defense and
foreign ministers.  “We just woke up in 1996,” lawmaker Serhiy Vlasenko, a
member of Tymoshenko’s group in parliament, said today. “There
is no judicial logic in this decision. This is pure politics.”  Parliamentary speaker Volodymyr Lytvyn said today that
Ukraine should set up a special constitutional commission to
ensure all the country’s laws comply with the court’s ruling.  ‘Very Special’  “The situation is very special,” he said “There are lots
of questions, including what to do with the ministers that were
appointed by the premier. Can they be fired by the president?”  The court’s decision may undermine the coalition Yanukovych
put together, led by his Party of Regions, creating difficulties
in passing legislation, including the budget and changes to the
tax code, Lytvyn said.  “Now there is no need for the coalition, so people may
take care of their image and not vote for unpopular measures,”
he said.  The Constitutional Court consists of 18 judges, with the
president, parliament and Congress of Judges each appointing six
members of the court for nine-year terms.  Four justices were forced to resign between Sept. 2 and
Sept. 9, according to the court’s website. The Congress of
Judges  replaced  them on Sept. 21, the court said in a statement.  “There was political pressure and an attempt to control
the court through the replacement of judges, which undermined
trust,” analyst Yakymenko said before the ruling.  ‘Infighting’  “With President Viktor Yanukovych seizing more power,
there is the potential for infighting among the Party of Regions
if a reshuffling of top officials occurs,” Birgham Marriott, an
analyst from Kiev-based investment bank Phoenix Capital said in
a report sent to clients today.  The government may be “deemed illegitimate,” Marriott
said. “There is also the potential for earlier than expected
parliamentary elections,” which can be held in 2011 rather than
2012. The 1996 version of the Constitution envisages a four-year
term for lawmakers whereas today’s parliament members were
elected for five year term, according to the analyst.  “There is going to be a whole bunch of legal collisions”
as legislation is brought in line with the 1996 constitution,
said Olexiy Haran, a professor of comparative politics at the
Kiev-Mohyla Academy, by phone. “Even in such conditions the
parliament will be able to protect its rights.” The issue is
“whether the parliament will have the will to defend itself.”  Today’s court decision is not going to cause a massive
reaction from the public, said Yuriy Yakymenko from Razumkov
center. It concerns the redistribution of authorities, and
“people do not see a big difference” between the two forms of
ruling, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daryna Krasnolutska  in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net 
 Kateryna Choursina  in Kiev 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  