-- Unemployment Rate Declines to Four-Month Low as Workers Leave Labor Force
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2010-10-01T00:09:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/unemployment-rate-declines-to-four-month-low-as-workers-leave-labor-force.html
Japan’s unemployment rate fell to
a four-month low in August as more workers left the labor
force, a sign that the job market remains tough in a slowing
economy.  The  jobless rate  slid to 5.1 percent from 5.2 percent,
the statistics bureau said today in Tokyo. The median
 forecast  of 25 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was 5.1
percent. The number of people no longer in the labor force
increased by 90,000 from July, the report showed.  Japan’s export-led expansion has prompted companies to
resume hiring after slashing jobs during the financial crisis.
Even so, the yen’s 12 percent advance against the dollar this
year is prompting companies including  Murata Manufacturing Co. 
to shed employees and move business abroad.  “The pace of improvements in the job market won’t pick
up for the next year,”  Yoshimasa Maruyama , a senior
economist at Itochu Corp. in Tokyo, said before the report.
“With the yen’s strength, companies are likely to expand
production overseas, so they’re not ready to hire
meaningfully at home.”  Murata, the maker of a third of the world’s ceramic
capacitors, devices used in flat-panel televisions and smart
phones, will eliminate 3,000 temporary positions and increase
production overseas as the yen’s strength forces it to reduce
costs, President  Tsuneo Murata  said this week.  Recent data show that factory output unexpectedly fell
in August and large manufacturers are expecting business
conditions to deteriorate, adding to concern that the
country’s rebound is slowing. Prime Minister  Naoto Kan 
unveiled a 915 billion yen ($11 billion) stimulus last month
to generate work in the medical, health, and tourism sectors
and spur consumer spending. The measure will help create or
sustain 200,000 jobs, according to government estimates.  Kan instructed his ministers to compile another extra
budget to keep the recovery going, one that may be as much as
4.6 trillion yen, a government official said on condition of
anonymity this week.  A separate report today showed that the  job-to-applicant
ratio  rose to 0.54, meaning there are 54 job openings for
every 100 candidates. The ratio was the highest since
February 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aki Ito  in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  