-- Hungary Will `Absolutely' Meet Deficit Targets After Revising 2009 Figures
-- B y   B a l a z s   P e n z
-- 2010-10-01T15:53:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/hungary-revises-2009-budget-shortfall-to-4-4-of-gdp-from-previous-4-0-.html
Hungary, which this month committed
to reducing next year’s  budget deficit  to less than the European
Union limit of 3 percent economic production, said the 2009 gap
was wider than previously reported.  The shortfall was 4.4 percent, rather than 4 percent, the
statistics office said today in an e-mailed report. Even after
the revision, Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  said Hungary will
“absolutely, definitely” meet its deficit targets.  The deficit has been a source of tension since Prime
Minister  Viktor Orban  took power in May and pledged to boost
growth after the country’s worst recession in 18 years. After
committing to targets in the country’s 2008 bailout agreement,
the government will probably take any steps needed to make sure
it won’t overshoot this year, analysts said.  “I believe in this year’s deficit target; I think they
will be able to meet it,”  Gyorgy Barta , an economist at Intesa
SanPaolo SpA in Budapest, said by phone. “We can’t exclude the
possibility that there will be some adjustments later this
year.”  The forint advanced to 273.59 per euro as of 4:28 p.m. in
Budapest from 276.99 late yesterday. The currency reached 273.32
today, the strongest since Orban took power on May 29. The yield
on Hungary’s benchmark five-year government bond fell to 6.459
percent from 6.518 percent.  ‘Unpleasant, Not Scary’  The revision of last year’s deficit resulted from a
recalculation of investment income and payments from the EU,
government statistician  Anna Lehmann  said by phone.  In the first half of this year, the shortfall was 5.4
percent of gross domestic product, including 6.2 percent in the
second quarter, the statistics office said.  The wider deficit is “unpleasant, but not scary,”
Matolcsy told reporters today in Brussels. “It can be sorted
out with higher revenues. We rule out austerity measures. I’m
optimistic about the outcome of the whole budget issue.”  The government will bring forward some revenue from next
year, including one-time payments from refiner Mol Nyrt. and FHB
Bank Nyrt., to plug a hole of as much as 130 billion forint
($651 million) in this year’s budget, Matolcsy said.  The EU in June ordered Mol to repay 112 million euros ($154
million) in state aid. The company said in August it had set
aside 35.8 billion forint for the payment.  The government will also use 30 billion forint from the
sale of carbon-emission quotas this year, instead of next, along
with as much as 25 billion forint of advance dividends from
state-owned companies, Matolcsy said.  Bank Tax  The economy will grow as much as 3 percent next year,
making up for any shortfall in revenue, he said.  Revenue from a special bank tax imposed to help close the
budget gap met the government’s target through yesterday, the
Economy Ministry said today in an e-mail. Financial companies
will have to pay 182 billion forint ($913 million) of tax this
year, with half due by yesterday. The total is 97 percent of the
preliminary estimate, the ministry said.  The government this month gave up a drive to raise the
deficit target for this year and next after the International
Monetary Fund and the European Union, which provided a 20
billion-euro bailout, insisted on budget cuts.  “International investors have confidence in the
government’s pledges,”  Peter Karsai  and  Imre Kerekgyarto ,
currency traders at Commerzbank AG in Budapest, wrote in a note
to clients today. “A good example of the trust is that the
forint has outperformed the Polish zloty for practically three
weeks. And the Polish economy is in a much better shape.”  Government debt in the EU’s most indebted eastern member
reached 78.4 percent of GDP at the end of 2009, the statistics
office said.  Hungary’s net financing requirement for the general
government was 5.5 percent of GDP in the 12 months through the
end of June, the central bank said in a separate statement. In
the second quarter, the financing need was 7.9 percent, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Balazs Penz  in Budapest at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net . 