-- Viacom's BET Said to Sign Vevo.com Accord for Web Access to Rihanna Videos
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2010-10-01T14:10:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/viacom-s-bet-said-to-sign-accord-for-music-videos-with-vevo-com.html
Viacom Inc. ’s BET website reached an
agreement to use music videos from Vevo.com, including artists
that sister network MTV.com lost in August, two people with
knowledge of the situation said.  The agreement gives  Vevo  a new outlet for videos from
labels including Universal Music Group’s Motown and Def Jam and
artists such as  Rihanna , according to the people, who requested
anonymity because the deal hasn’t been announced.  The accord signals that Chairman  Sumner Redstone,  New York-
based Viacom’s controlling shareholder, will continue to let his
managers take different directions when their interests diverge.
 CBS Corp. , where he is also chairman and controlling
shareholder, works with YouTube, while Viacom has sued the
video-sharing website. Universal Music pulled its videos from
MTV.com after the two sides couldn’t come to terms.  “This deal was done by BET networks, not with MTV,” Kurt
Patat, a spokesman for MTV.com, said in an e-mail. “While we
are corporate cousins, we didn’t work on this deal. This deal
will have no impact on the MTV sites.”  Vevo.com, created by Vivendi SA’s Universal Music, Sony
Music Entertainment and Abu Dhabi Media Co., controls music
videos from three of the four major record labels, including EMI
Group Ltd.  Google Inc. ’s YouTube powers the site.  MTV.com lost access to the videos of Universal artists
including Justin Bieber and  Lady Gaga  in August. MTV may still
air the videos on its TV channels and has EMI and Sony on its
website.  Viacom spokeswoman  Kelly McAndrew  referred questions to
BET’s spokeswomen,  Jeanine Liburd  and Kimberlee Bradshaw, who
didn’t respond to e-mail requests for comment after normal
business hours. Jennifer Press, a spokeswoman for New York-based
Vevo.com, declined to comment.  Dominant Distributor  Vevo is attempting to become the dominant distributor of
music videos on the Web. The company embeds ads in the videos,
courting marketers with the opportunity to create spots that run
wherever clips are carried.  The site is making “tens of millions” of dollars, Chief
Executive Officer  Rio Caraeff  said at a conference in San
Francisco this week. The service, announced last year, has
advertisers including American Express Co. and Comcast Corp.  Viacom, also the owner of Paramount Pictures, rose 23 cents
to $36.42 at 10:10 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite  
trading . The stock had gained 22 percent this year before today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andy Fixmer  in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
 Adam Satariano  in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  