-- Wal-Mart, Humana Offer Low-Cost Drug Plan to Take Rivals' Sales
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m   a n d   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2010-10-01T20:11:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/wal-mart-humana-join-on-low-cost-drug-plan-aimed-at-snaring-rivals-sales.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. , the world’s
largest retailer, said it will team with health insurer  Humana
Inc.  to offer the cheapest prescription drug plan in the U.S.,
as the companies seek to take sales of medications from rivals.  The companies will begin marketing the plan today to
Americans in Medicare, the U.S. government health program for
the elderly and disabled, William Fleming, a Humana vice
president, said in a conference call yesterday. The policies,
which take effect Jan. 1, will cost $14.80 a month, less than
half the average premium this year, and will boost sales for
both companies, Fleming said.  Humana  is the second-biggest provider of Medicare benefits
in the U.S., after  UnitedHealth Group Inc. , the top plan by
sales, and provides stand-alone prescription plans to 1.7
million people. The insurer is betting  Wal-Mart’s  marketing and
purchasing muscle will help keep its drug plans profitable, even
as it cuts monthly premiums by more than half, said  Ana Gupte , a
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analyst in New York, in an e-mail.  “The drop in premiums has to be compensated by an increase
in enrollment,” Gupte said. That’s “likely achievable” thanks
to Wal-Mart’s network of low-cost pharmacies “which we expect
will garner significant share gains in light of the simple low
pricing of $14.80 nationwide.”  Humana  fell 11 cents to $50.13 at 4:03 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The Louisville, Kentucky-based
company has risen 14 percent so far this year.  Wal-Mart , based
in Bentonville, Arkansas, slipped 16 cents to $53.36. The stock
is little changed for the year.  Boosting Membership  The marketing agreement may boost Humana’s Medicare drug
membership by 250,000 people next year, a 15 percent jump to
1.97 million, Gupte estimated in a Sept. 29 note to clients. The
company expects  sales  from stand-alone drug plans of as much as
$2.4 billion for 2010, out of $34.5 billion in total revenue,
the insurer said in an Aug. 2 statement.  Humana’s Fleming and  John Agwunobi , president of Wal-Mart’s
health and wellness division, declined to say how many customers
the companies expected to add, what profit margin the plans
would offer or how the margin would be divided.  “Humana does expect to gain membership from this plan,”
Fleming said on the conference call. “Wal-Mart does expect to
gain customers.”  Wal-Mart has used its heft to offer lower-cost drugs and
step up competition with pharmacies at  CVS Caremark Corp.  of
Woonsocket, Rhode Island, and  Walgreen Co.  of Deerfield,
Illinois. Wal-Mart started filling generic drug prescriptions
for $4 an order in September 2006 and has more than 4,000
pharmacies in the U.S. Health and wellness products made up 10
percent of sales at U.S. stores in the year ending January 2010,
according to company data.  Walgreens, CVS Challenge  “This will fit nicely with their $4 generic drug program,
which has been a success thus far and has been copied by
others,”  Brian Sozzi , an analyst at Wall Street Strategies Inc.
in New York, said in an e-mail. “They are trying get their name
out there that they offer affordable drugs for seniors, and get
them coming to the store instead of going to Walgreens or CVS.”  Customers can enroll in the plans beginning Nov. 15.
Through the lower premiums and reduced co-payments, the
companies expect the average enrollee to save $450 in drug costs
next year, Agwunobi said.  “We believe we truly are standing as advocates with our
customers at a time when they could not need us more,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Nussbaum  in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Boyle  in New York at 
 Mboyle20@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   Rgale5@bloomberg.net  