-- West Virginia Drivers Most Likely to Hit Deer, State Farm Says
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2010-10-01T20:14:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/west-virginia-most-likely-for-deer-to-meet-maker-in-crash-state-farm-says.html
West Virginia motorists are the most
likely in the U.S. to hit a deer for the fourth straight year,
according to  State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co.   Vehicles struck deer 68,561 times in West Virginia in the
two years ended June 30 for the highest rate per driver in the
U.S., as larger populations of the animals encountered new roads
and expanding city limits, State Farm said today in a statement.
One in every 42 drivers in West Virginia is likely to hit a deer
in the next 12 months, based on claims data and driver
registration counts from the  Federal Highway Administration  last
year, the largest U.S. automobile insurer said.  “We have more deer and a lot more people moving into their
habitat,” Chris Ryan, supervisor of game management services at
the  West Virginia Division of Natural Resources , said in an
interview on Aug. 23. “We’re in a state where about 80 percent
is forested land. There are a lot of curvy, windy roads going
through deer habitats.”  Deer collisions in the two years ended June 30 rose to 2.3
million nationwide. The average property damage per accident
climbed 1.7 percent to $3,103, according to Bloomington,
Illinois-based State Farm.  About 25 percent of business at auto-body shop Cole
Collision Center in Beckley, West Virginia, during mating season
comes from deer hits, said manager Robbie Hicks. He’s seen
repairs costs as much as $14,000.  Blind Spots  “Business picks up in the fall,” he said. “One guy hit a
deer coming up on the highway and it damaged his radiator, which
caused the car to lose fluid and blew the motor. It’s
unavoidable when deer jump out of blind spots. It’s made me more
cautious.” Crashes peak in November amid the mating season, the
Insurance Institute for Highway Safety said in a  separate study .  Iowa has the second-highest frequency with 1 in 67.
Michigan is third. Hawaii is the state where drivers are least
likely to strike deer, with a 1 in 13,011 chance.  Urban sprawl contributes to the increase in collisions,
said  Joshua Millspaugh , professor of conservation at the
University of Missouri. Deer can thrive in various surroundings,
including urban areas, he said.  “We’re creating perfect habitats for these animals,” he
said. “Areas with high human density are typically less hunted
and deer populations can explode. These areas have unnatural
food sources that are very good for deer. That’s why they’re
eating homeowners’ shrubs.”  New York motorists have a probability of 1 in 145. New
Jersey drivers have odds of 1 in 183, and Connecticut has a
frequency of 1 in 320, State Farm said.  Hunting is the primary tool to manage deer populations,
according to Millspaugh. Drivers should be alert during dawn and
dusk hours when deer tend to be active, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Inyoung Hwang  in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
 Natalie Doss  in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 