-- Wheat Output in Western Australia May Slump 45% Because of Inadequate Rain
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2010-10-01T05:25:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/wheat-output-in-western-australia-may-slump-45-because-of-inadequate-rain.html
Wheat output in Western Australia,
the nation’s largest growing-state, may drop 45 percent from
last season because of inadequate rain, a farmers’ group said.  “A lot of people have virtually come to the conclusion
that the rain season is done,” Mike Norton, president of the
Western Australian Farmers Federation, said today by phone.
“Farmers aren’t very happy. It’s not looking very good.”  While above-normal rain in  the nation ’s east has boosted
forecasts for the nation’s total production, dryness has eroded
crop prospects in the west. The state’s wheat harvest may be
4.473 million metric tons, with production of all grains in the
state forecast at 7.6 million tons, the Perth-based Grain
Industry Association of Western Australia said in a report dated
Sept. 17.  “It’s difficult to forecast but 4.47 million tons sounds
like a reasonable prediction,” Norton said. Output may reach 5
million tons, he said.  The state harvested 8.2 million tons last season, according
to the Australian Bureau of Agricultural and Resource Economics-
Bureau of Rural Sciences.  Australia’s production of the grain may total 23.8 million
tons, National Australia Bank Ltd. forecast Sept. 29. Risks to
the outlook included damage from locusts and mice, excess rain
in the east and possible crop downgrades in the west, it said.  Harvesting in Western Australia will start this month and
may continue to early January.  Wheat for December delivery on the Chicago Board of Trade
declined 0.3 percent to $6.72 a bushel at 9:31 a.m. Singapore
time. The contract advanced 42 percent in the third quarter, the
best performance in three years.  Temperatures Climb  Western Australia’s wheat-growing regions didn’t receive
significant showers in the past week, Patrick Ward, a Perth-
based meteorologist at the Bureau of Meteorology, said today.  No rain is forecast for the area in the next week, said
Adam Conroy, a Perth-based forecaster at the bureau. Later next
week, temperatures in the region will rise to as much as 35
degrees Celsius (95 degrees Fahrenheit), potentially putting
stress on crops, he said.  Western Australia’s southwest, the state’s most populous
region which includes the capital Perth, today imposed tougher
water restrictions for homeowners after a dry winter, Water
Minister Graham Jacobs said in an e-mailed statement today.  “We have just come through our second-driest winter on
record, continuing dry weather through September and the lowest
run off into the dams since 1913,” Jacobs said.  New South Wales , this season set to surpass Western
Australia as the top producing state, was expected to this week
begin spraying more than 60,000 hectares (148,263 acres) for
locusts, a government statement said.  Surveys in the Bourke, Walgett and Brewarrina regions had
spotted more than 700 locust bands stretching up to 1.5
kilometers in length, Industry & Investment NSW said.  Government agencies and farmers plan to spray locusts after
they hatch and before they can fly to protect crops and pastures
from an infestation forecast to be the largest in decades.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@Bloomberg.net . 