-- Wheat Posts Biggest Weekly Decline Since January as Rain Aids Planting
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2010-10-01T19:14:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/wheat-heads-for-biggest-weekly-decline-since-january-as-rain-aids-planting.html
Wheat futures fell for a fifth
straight day, capping the biggest weekly decline since January,
on speculation that rain will improve prospects for crops being
planted in Eastern Europe and Russia.  Parts of Ukraine and southern Russia may receive 0.3 inch
(0.8 centimeter) of rain tomorrow, and western Kazakhstan may
get 0.4 inch, according to AccuWeather Inc. data. Wheat prices
surged 40 percent in the third quarter after drought in the
region harmed crops, spurring Russia to ban grain exports.  “The dry area over there is getting a lot smaller, but the
rain’s coming in real late in the season,” said  Jeff McReynolds , the owner of McReynolds Marketing and Investments in
Hays, Kansas. “We probably have not heard the last of the
threats to the Russian crop, even though they’re getting rain
now.”  Wheat futures for December delivery fell 19 cents, or 2.8
percent, to settle at $6.55 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the Chicago
Board of Trade. Prices dropped 9 percent this week, the biggest
decline since the week ended Jan. 15.  Ukraine had “better-than-expected” precipitation last
night, according to a report from  Drew Lerner , the president of
World Weather Inc. in Overland Park, Kansas.  “The forecast continues to offer healing rainfall in the
drought areas from eastern Ukraine to Kazakhstan and the lower
Volga River Valley this weekend with lingering showers next
week,” Lerner wrote.  Cheaper corn prices also may cut demand for wheat from
livestock producers, because both grains are used for animal
feed, McReynolds said. Corn plunged the 30-cent limit today on
the CBOT, and dropped 9.25 cents yesterday, after the Department
of Agriculture raised its estimate for U.S. inventories.  Wheat “is mostly a follower right now,” McReynolds said.
“If we see more liquidation in corn, wheat can’t help but
fall.”  Wheat is the fourth-biggest U.S. crop, valued at $10.6
billion in 2009, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show. The U.S. is the largest wheat exporter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 