-- Whitman Husband Saw Letter Questioning Housekeeper, Lawyer Says
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2010-10-01T00:08:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/whitman-husband-saw-letter-questioning-housekeeper-lawyer-says.html
A handwritten note on a Social
Security Administration letter shows  Meg Whitman ’s husband saw
it and contradicts denials by  California ’s Republican candidate
for governor, according to a lawyer for the couple’s former
housekeeper.  Attorney  Gloria Allred  showed reporters today what she said
was a copy of a 2003 letter asking for confirmation of the name,
social security number and employment status of the housekeeper,
Nicky Diaz Santillan. Allred said a notation on the letter --
“Nicky, please check this. Thanks.” -- was written by
Whitman’s husband, Dr. Griffith Harsh.  “A mismatch of a Social Security number to an employee’s
name is a clue that the employee may be undocumented,” Allred
said in a Los Angeles press conference. In a statement, Harsh
said he didn’t recall seeing the letter.  Diaz, the Whitman’s housekeeper for nine years, was fired
in June 2009 when she admitted falsifying immigration documents.
Whitman, the former chief executive officer of  EBay Inc ., knew
the maid was illegal and ignored it until she became a candidate
for governor, Allred said yesterday.  Whitman said she and her husband only became aware of
Diaz’s undocumented status when she revealed it to them in June
of last year. In a press conference today, Whitman said neither
she nor her husband had seen the Social Security letter. Whitman
said Diaz was responsible for collecting their mail.  “She may have intercepted the letter,” Whitman said.
“Nicky did bring in and sort our mail. She might have been on
the lookout for that letter.”  Handwriting Claim  An hour and a half later, Allred released a copy of the
letter with what she claimed was Harsh’s handwriting.  “We have clearly proven, with the release of this letter,
that Meg Whitman lied to the press and the public when she said
‘We never received that letter and notification,’” Allred said
today.  Harsh, in a statement following Allred’s release of the
letter, said he didn’t recall it, though “it is possible that I
would’ve scratched a follow-up note on a letter like this.”  “Neither Meg nor I believed there was a problem with
Nicky’s legal status and I certainly don’t recall ever
discussing it with my wife, nor did I ever show her any letter
about it,” Harsh said.  The  Social Security Administration  sends so-called “no-
match”  letters  to employers and employees when the information
on tax forms does not correspond with Social Security records,
according to the administration’s Website.  “The letter raises the issue that there may be a clerical
error and the employee may not receive her social security
benefits,” Whitman campaign adviser Rob Stutzman said in a
conference call with reporters. “Ms. Whitman had no reason to
doubt Ms. Diaz’s legal status as she had represented it to
them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christopher Palmeri  in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  