-- Twitter Spat Shows Fernandez Foe Winning in Bond Market: Argentina Credit
-- B y   D r e w   B e n s o n   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 2010-10-01T14:20:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/twitter-spat-shows-fernandez-foe-winning-in-bond-market-argentina-market.html
Buenos Aires province is paying more
to borrow in the bond market than Argentina’s capital city. And
the municipality is making sure Argentines know it.  Nestor Grindetti , the financial chief for Buenos Aires
city, sent a mock “congratulations”  over Twitter  on Sept. 27
to his counterpart in the province for locking in a 12 percent
yield on five-year dollar bonds sold overseas that day. The rate
compared with 10.5 percent on similar maturity debt issued by
the city in March and about 9.4 percent on sovereign notes due
in 2017. Average emerging-market dollar bond yields fell to a
record low 5.4 percent in August.  “Congratulations to my neighbor and colleague,  Alejandro Arlia ,” Nestor Grindetti  wrote  on Sept 27. “The province
placed $550 million in five-year bonds at 12 percent, 250 basis
points above the sovereign!”  Three months after President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner 
completed a restructuring of international debt, the discourse
among politicians in Argentina is increasingly focused on when
to issue debt and at what cost. Fernandez said Sept. 24 in New
York that the government, aiming to return to international
markets for the first time since its 2001 default, will wait
until Argentine debt yields less than 8 percent, compared with
an average 9.79 percent yesterday, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co. indexes.  Falling Yields  Yields on Argentine provincial debt should continue to
fall, tightening the gap with federal debt, said  Christian Cavanagh , who oversees 800 million pesos ($202 million) in
mutual funds at RJ Delta, a unit of Raymond James Financial
Inc., in Buenos Aires.  “The depth of this market, the investor base, and the
coverage is increasing,” said Cavanagh, who started a fund last
week that invests in provincial and municipal debt.  Backed by property taxes and licensing fees, the city run
by Mayor  Mauricio Macri , an opposition leader, generates about
90 percent of its own revenue. The province, which surrounds the
city and provides more than 30 percent of Argentina’s total
gross domestic product, relies on the federal government for
more than half of its revenue, said  Patricio Esnaola , an analyst
at Moody’s Investors Service in Buenos Aires.  Moody’s rates the city B1 and the province two levels lower
at B3, six steps below investment grade and in line with the
federal government. The city’s rating is the highest of eight
regional and local Argentine governments rated by Moody’s,
Esnaola said.  ‘Sovereign Risk’  “Most investors view the province as some kind of slight
derivative of sovereign risk,” said  Jim Harper , director of
corporate research at BCP Securities in Greenwich, Connecticut.
“The city has much better numbers and different sources of
revenue.”  Polls show Macri, the 51-year-old former president of the
Boca Juniors soccer club, as a potential presidential candidate
against Fernandez or her husband, ex-president  Nestor Kirchner ,
in elections next year.  The discussion of comparable borrowing costs took a
political twist two days later as Buenos Aires province’s Arlia,
whose Twitter page is bordered by images of former Argentine
President  Juan Domingo Peron  and his wife, Eva,  responded to his 
city counterpart, saying: “The province returned to the markets
with better conditions than the city, thanks to the leadership
of President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner. Thank you, Madame
President!!!”  Fourth Sale  Buenos Aires province was the fourth local government to
issue debt in international markets this year. Chubut province,
the nation’s top oil producer, sold $150 million of notes backed
by oil and gas royalties to yield 9.66 percent in July. Cordoba,
Argentina’s third-largest province, sold international notes for
the first time a month later to sell $400 million worth of
seven-year dollar bonds to yield 12.375 percent.  The Twitter feud continued in the following days, with
Arlia saying the province paid less in commissions to the banks
managing its sale, Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of
America Corp. and Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank AG, and
Grindetti  advising  his counterpart to not “spit into the wind”
by criticizing the city’s bond sale.  “You know what? You don’t understand that 11.75 percent is
less than 12.5 percent,” Arlia  wrote  on Sept. 29. “Here’s the
final financial math class -- the coupon is 11.75 percent, the
yield is 12 percent,” Arlia said. “Both of those are less than
12.5 percent.”  Laura Beheran and Hernan Stella, press officers for Arlia
and Grindetti, confirmed the ministers’ Twitter accounts.
Neither minister returned calls seeking comment.  Higher Rating  Standard & Poor’s raised the country’s credit rating one
level to “B,” five levels below investment grade, on Sept. 13,
citing the economy’s “strong” performance. The move followed
Argentina’s $12.2 billion restructuring of defaulted bonds in
June, the second swap of debt since the 2001 default.  The  extra yield investors  demand to own Argentine dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell 11 basis points, or 0.11
percentage point, to 664 at 10:16 a.m. New York time, according
to JPMorgan.  The peso slid 0.1 percent to 3.9617 per dollar. The
currency touched 3.9755 per dollar on Sept. 28, its weakest
level since its inception in 1992. Warrants linked to growth in
South America’s second-biggest economy rose 0.06 cent to 11.95
cents, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The cost of protecting Argentine bonds against default for
five years using credit-default swaps rose 11 basis points
yesterday to 749. The swaps dropped 200 points during September,
the biggest decline among government debt worldwide. Credit-
default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to debt agreements.  ‘Luxury’  “Sometimes you don’t have the luxury of choosing when you
want to raise money,” said Harper. “You have to raise money
when the markets allow you to raise money.”  After a one-day lull, the insults started flying again
today between Arlia and Grindetti.  “You are desperately trying to get a name for yourself in
the province!” Arlia said, to which Grindetti  replied : “You’ve
lowered the level of the debate with your customary attacks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Drew Benson  in Buenos Aires at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net ;
 Ben Bain  in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  