-- Hyundai Group Makes Initial Hyundai Engineering Bid Rivaling Hyundai Motor
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k   a n d   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2010-10-01T07:07:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/hyundai-group-makes-initial-hyundai-engineering-bid-rivaling-hyundai-motor.html
Hyundai Group  bid for a stake in
 Hyundai Engineering & Construction Co.  worth $2.5 billion,
setting up a competition with Hyundai Motor Group for control of
South Korea’s largest builder.  Hyundai Group wants the stake to help expand globally, it
said today in a preliminary bid statement. Hyundai Motor Group,
owner of South Korea’s largest automaker, submitted its proposal
on Sept. 27. Neither group said how much they would offer for
the holding.  Hyundai Group’s letter of intent is the latest round in a
decade-long feud splitting one of South Korea’s most powerful
families. Hyundai Group Chairwoman  Hyun Jeong Eun  is trying to
rebuild after family infighting, bad debts and an ill-fated
effort to expand into North Korea splintered the industrial
empire. Her billionaire brother-in-law,  Chung Mong Koo , the
Hyundai founder’s eldest surviving son and chairman of Hyundai
Motor Co., is competing against her to expand his group.  Buying Hyundai Engineering would also help Hyun maintain
control of Hyundai Group’s biggest unit,  Hyundai Merchant Marine
Co. , which is 8.3 percent owned by the construction company.
Hyundai Merchant, which contributed 58 percent of Hyundai
Group’s sales last year, is the biggest shareholder in 7 of the
12 Hyundai Group units.  Bids Confirmed  Korea Exchange Bank, the main creditor bank for Hyundai
Engineering, confirmed in a statement today that only the two
companies had submitted their proposals.  The  builder  dropped 1 percent to close at 71,800 won in
Seoul trading.  Hyundai Merchant  fell 7.6 percent to 46,850 won.  Hyundai Engineering, based in Seoul, was taken over by
creditors in 2001 as debt mounted after it couldn’t collect
payment for overseas projects. The company said in February it
aims to win $12 billion worth of foreign orders this year,
compared with $4.5 billion in 2009.  Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch & Co., Woori
Investment & Securities Co. and Korea Development Bank are
arranging the sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kyunghee Park  in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net ;
 Seonjin Cha  in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  