-- Zloty, Forint to Extend Best Quarterly Rally on Bets for Austerity, Growth
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2010-10-01T08:10:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-01/zloty-forint-to-extend-best-quarterly-rally-on-bets-for-austerity-growth.html
Eastern European currencies may
extend the biggest gains in emerging markets as the Czech,
Hungarian and Polish governments pledge to shrink deficits and
rebounding economies attract foreign funds.  The Czech koruna led the currencies of the European Union’s
post-communist eastern members for the biggest appreciation
among the developing nations last quarter, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Options traders are paying the lowest
rate in four months for the right to sell the Hungarian forint
rather than buy it, based on the so-called risk-reversal rate.  Sentiment has reversed from the second quarter of the year,
when investors sold the currencies on concern the euro area’s
debt crisis would choke off demand for exports and restrict the
flow of credit to the region. Instead,  economic growth  in Poland
has accelerated to the fastest pace in two years while new
governments in the Czech Republic and Hungary promised to narrow
their deficits next year. Poland and the Czech Republic last
month sold bonds in euros, attracting bids at lower yields than
higher rated Spain and Italy.  “We have seen a significant decoupling in the region
relative to euro periphery,”  James Lord , an emerging-markets
strategist at Morgan Stanley & Co, said in a phone interview
from London. “Towards the end of this year we think the market
can rally so these currencies should do quite well against the
euro.”  Polish Rate Increase  The koruna climbed 4.6 percent in the third quarter for the
biggest gain since the second quarter of 2009. It advanced 0.6
percent to 24.387 per euro as of 9:54 a.m. in Prague, the
strongest level since November 2008. Prime Minister  Petr Necas ’s
government took office in July, pledging to cut the Czech
deficit to within the EU’s 3 percent limit by 2013 from 5.9
percent last year.  Czech local-currency bond yields fell to a record low while
the government’s September sale of 2 billion euros ($2.7
billion) of Eurobonds due in 2021 attracted 5.3 billion euros in
bids, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Economic growth in Poland, the only EU member to avoid
recession through the credit crisis, accelerated to 3.5 percent,
its fastest pace in almost two years. While the central bank has
kept the  main interest rate  at a record low of 3.5 percent for
15 months, traders in the  forward rate agreements  market are
betting the borrowing costs will rise by at least quarter of a
percentage point by the end of the year, buoying the currency.  German Recovery  UniCredit SpA raised its recommendation for the zloty this
week to “moderately overweight” from “market weight,” saying
Poland will become the first country in the region to raise
interest rates in early 2011. The zloty, which climbed 4.1
percent in the third quarter to 3.97 per euro, may advance to
3.9 per euro by the end of the fourth quarter, according to a
median estimate from 19 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. It
appreciated 0.4 percent to 3.9544 per euro today.  Eastern Europe is benefiting from a recovery in demand from
Germany, the region’s biggest trading partner. The German
 economy  expanded at the fastest pace since reunification in the
second quarter and  business confidence  unexpectedly rose in
September to the highest level in more than three years,
suggesting companies can weather weaker demand from abroad as
the global economic recovery slows.  Poland and the Czech Republic’s debt ratings may face
“upward pressure” as their economies strengthen, though a
change isn’t imminent,  Dietmar Hornung , a senior credit analyst
at Moody’s Investors Service said on Sept. 16. Poland has an A2
rating from Moody’s, five steps below the company’s top Aaa
grade. The Czech Republic is rated one grade higher at A1.  Deficit Pledge  Credit Suisse Group AG this week raised Hungary bonds to
“overweight” from “neutral,” saying the government’s pledge
to reduce the budget deficit below 3 percent will probably
prevent a ratings downgrade by Standard & Poor’s.  Hungary is committed to lowering its budget shortfall to
below 3 percent of gross domestic product next year, Economy
Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  said last month, a signal the country
may comply with EU and International Monetary Fund budget-
deficit targets.  Hungary roiled global markets in June as officials in
 Viktor Orban ’s government compared the country to Greece while
claiming the previous administration lied about public finances.
Talks with the EU and IMF, which funded a rescue loan for the
country in 2008, broke down in July after the cabinet refused to
commit to next year’s 2.8 percent shortfall target.  ‘Alluring’  The premium on options to sell the forint against the euro
dropped to 3.0750 percentage points yesterday, the lowest level
since May 11, based on a measure derived from three-month dollar
options known as implied volatility. The measure reached 5.08
percentage points in June.  The rally in the third quarter has still left eastern
Europe’s currencies among the worst performers in emerging
markets. The forint has lost 7 percent while the Polish zloty is
down 1.3 percent versus the U.S. currency so far this year.
Developing-nation currencies climbed 2.6 percent against the
dollar this year, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Emerging
Markets Currency Index , as investors sought to benefit from the
fastest economic growth rates and reap higher interest rates
than are available in developed countries.  “The valuations of eastern European currencies in many
cases are alluring,” said  Luis Costa , an emerging-market
strategist at Citigroup Inc. in London. The euro area’s debt
crisis has made eastern European currencies “highly
depressed,” he said. “A lot of this depression has not been
corrected yet and one could argue that the rally could be
sustained a little bit more,” according to Costa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Piotr Skolimowski  in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  