-- Ace's Greenberg Says Regulators Who Fumbled Credit Crisis May Botch Reform
-- Inyoung Hwang
-- 2010-07-28T15:14:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/ace-s-greenberg-says-regulators-who-fumbled-credit-crisis-may-botch-reform.html

          
          
             Ace Ltd.  Chief Executive Officer
 Evan Greenberg  said he doubts the biggest rewrite of financial
rules since the Great Depression will halt industry excess
because regulators botched their jobs in the credit crunch.  
 “When I look back on the crisis and think about the role
that current regulators played or didn’t play in recognizing
accumulations of risk and bad underwriting in the credit
business, it doesn’t give me a whole lot of encouragement about
how regulators will behave in the future,” Greenberg said today
in a conference call.  
 President  Barack Obama  last week signed reforms designed to
prevent a repeat of the risk-taking that brought the financial
system to the brink of collapse and triggered the bailout of
firms including Ace’s competitor,  American International Group
Inc.  Greenberg kept Zurich-based Ace  profitable  throughout the
crisis by avoiding the mortgage-related investments and
derivative trades that hobbled AIG.  
 “It’s one thing to write a set of regulations and to have
a regulator put in place to administer,” said Greenberg, 55.
“It’s another thing to see regulation administered in a
vigorous, thoughtful and insightful way.”  
 Greenberg was an executive until 2000 at New York-based
AIG, where his father  Maurice “Hank” Greenberg  was CEO until
2005. Ace announced Evan Greenberg’s hiring in 2001. Evan
Greenberg said in 2008, after the AIG rescue, that he was
“adamantly opposed” to the U.S. including insurers in its
program to prop up ailing financial companies.  
 Profit Gain  
 Ace’s second-quarter  net income  climbed 27 percent to $677
million as investment losses narrowed, the company said late
yesterday. The insurer earned 10.3 cents for every premium
dollar in the second quarter, compared with 12.3 cents a year
earlier, as catastrophe costs more than doubled to $81 million.  
 Ace slipped $1.19, or 2.2 percent, to $52.28 at 10:51 a.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading  as Greenberg said
the economic slump is weighing on sales in the U.S. and Europe.
The company has advanced about 3.7 percent this year, compared
with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index’s decline of less than 1
percent.  
 “We are likely in a period of prolonged slow growth,”
Greenberg said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sarah Frier  in New York at 
 sfrier@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        