-- Ace CEO Greenberg Calls Once-Banned Brokerage Fees `Conflict of Interest'
-- Inyoung Hwang
-- 2010-07-28T17:11:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/ace-ceo-greenberg-calls-once-banned-brokerage-fees-conflict-of-interest-.html

          
          
             Contingent commissions, the once-
banned payments that insurers pay to entice brokers, create a
conflict of interest and ought not to become prevalent again,
Ace Ltd. Chief Executive Officer  Evan Greenberg  said.  
 Aon Corp. , the biggest insurance broker, said last week it
is considering bringing back the once-hidden payments that
insurers pay to supplement the fees it takes from the buyers of
coverage.  Marsh & McLennan Cos. , ranked second by brokerage
revenue, said in March it will take contingent commissions at
its unit serving mid-size U.S. clients.  
 “If customers tolerate the practice of contingents, their
use over time will likely become more prevalent,” Greenberg
said on a conference call with investors today. “Frankly, I
hope that does not occur.” Ace, based in Zurich, is a provider
of commercial liability and property-casualty insurance.  
 Regulators in New York, Connecticut and Illinois in
February released the two insurance brokers and Willis Group
Holdings Plc, the No. 3 broker, from a ban on accepting
contingent commissions. The ban resulted from a 2005 probe by
former New York Attorney General  Eliot Spitzer .  
 Brokers are supposed to find the best insurance policies
for clients, so the insurance companies’ payments to the brokers
to direct business to them were a conflict of interest, Spitzer
alleged at the time. He negotiated a ban on the practice to
settle investigations of fraud and anticompetitive practices.  
 Following the states’ February lifting of the ban, brokers
now must reveal the contingent fees if clients ask.  
 “Unlike agents who represent insurance companies, brokers
represent their clients,” the purchasers of the insurance
coverage, Greenberg said on the conference call. “In fact, if I
had it my way, clients and not insurers would compensate
brokers. But that’s just not a reality.”  
 Aon, based in Chicago, and New York-based Marsh & McLennan
appealed to officials for redress in 2008 as regulators opened a
review. London-based Willis said it won’t take contingents and
called Aon’s stance last week “troublesome and ambiguous.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Inyoung Hwang  in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        