-- AECI Plans `Small' Acquisitions, Targets Chemical Companies, Edwards Says
-- Mike Cohen
-- 2010-07-28T11:26:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/aeci-plans-small-acquisitions-targets-chemical-companies-edwards-says.html

          
          
             AECI Ltd. , Africa’s largest
explosives maker, plans to buy chemical businesses in South
Africa and mining chemicals, energy and water treatment
companies outside its home market to expand its product range.  
 “We are actively looking for the right acquisitions,”
Chief Executive Officer  Graham Edwards  said in a telephone
interview from Johannesburg today. “We have got some small ones
on the cards.”  
 Earlier today, AECI said net income surged to 269 million
rand ($36.5 million) in the six months through June from 118
million rand a year earlier, when the global recession curbed
demand for explosives and chemicals.  
 “We did do quite a lot of restructuring and rightsizing
throughout the whole of last year,” Edwards said. “The volumes
and the cost base are now pretty much aligned. The volume
improvement is filtering through to the bottom line.”  
 The company’s first-half sales rose 3 percent to 5.4
billion rand.  
 Pedestrian Growth  
 “It’s going to take a good three to four years to get back
to 2008” sales levels, when the company had an exceptional
year, Edwards said. “I think there will be relatively
pedestrian growth on top of this for the next few years. The
real reason for that is the rand-dollar exchange rate. It’s just
dampening all possibilities of export growth.”  
 The rand has gained 28 percent against the dollar since the
beginning of last year.  
 South Africa’s mining industry is “going backwards,” with
expansion limited to the platinum and coal industries, Edwards
said. “Year by year, South Africa is losing its position as a
mining country.”  
 AECI’s  shares  rose 87 cents, or 1.3 percent, to 69.50 rand
at 11:55 a.m. in Johannesburg, giving the company a market value
of 8.3 billion rand.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        