-- Malawi Rejects World Bank-Backed Mozambican Electricity Plan as Too Costly
-- Frank Jomo
-- 2010-07-28T14:18:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/malawi-rejects-world-bank-backed-mozambican-electricity-plan-as-too-costly.html

          
          
             Malawian  President  Bingu wa Mutharika  rejected a World Bank-backed plan to source power from
neighboring  Mozambique  and said the southern African nation
should build hydropower plants to meet its own requirements.  
 Finance Minister  Ken Kandodo  announced in January that the
World Bank would fund a project to source electricity from
Mozambique to increase Malawi’s power capacity to 485 megawatts
from 285 megawatts, according to the Daily Times, a Blantyre-
based newspaper. The Washington-based lender gave the country
until March 15 to sign the deal or lose the funding, it said.  
 “The deal highly favors Mozambique,” Mutharika told
reporters today in the Malawian capital, Lilongwe. “The
agreement is that Malawi should be paying a monthly fee of $1
million per month whether we use the electricity or not. This is
not feasible and a waste of the country’s resources and as long
as I am president of this country, I won’t allow it to happen.”  
 Erratic electricity supplies are the main obstacle to doing
business in Malawi, according to the  Millennium Challenge Corp. ,
a U.S. government agency that works to reduce poverty. Power
outages cost the country 36 billion kwacha ($238 million)
annually, an equivalent of 4.4 percent of total national income
based on the country’s $4.9 billion economy, MCA economist Alex
Gomani said in March.  
 Mutharika said Malawi should make use of the country’s
water resources to generate its own power.  
 “Instead of us tapping power from Mozambique, we should
invest in power plants to be built in our rivers across the
country,” he said.  
 Malawi, a nation of 15.5 million people, is the world’s
biggest grower of burley tobacco and Africa’s second-largest tea
grower, after Kenya.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Frank Jomo  in Blantyre at 
 fjomo@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        