-- Malaysia's Stocks Offer Foreign Investors a `Safe Refuge,' JPMorgan Says
-- Chan Tien Hin
-- 2010-07-28T03:17:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/malaysia-s-stocks-offer-foreign-investors-a-safe-refuge-jpmorgan-says.html

          
          
             Malaysia’s  stock market  is a “safe
refuge” for foreign investors seeking shelter from volatility
in other Asian markets because of its domestic economy and
defensive qualities, JPMorgan Chase & Co said.  
 Investors should buy “cyclical” stocks such as banking
group  AMMB Holdings Bhd. , Public Bank Bhd., and power utility
 Tenaga Nasional Bhd. ,  Chris Oh , an analyst at JPMorgan, said in
a report yesterday. Casino operator  Genting Bhd.  and IJM Corp.,
a builder, are also among his top picks.  
 The Malaysian market has “defensive characteristics such
as low volatility and weak correlation with major indexes,” he
said. “The market is back on a high; we see evidence of foreign
monies trickling in based on foreign incremental buying and
ownership levels.”  
 Foreign ownership in Malaysia’s market rose to 20.6 percent
at the end of June from 20.3 percent in February, signaling a
pickup in net buying by foreigners, Oh said.  
 The  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index  slid 0.5 percent in the
second quarter, the second-worst performance in Southeast Asia.
The measure rose for a fourth day today, increasing 0.2 percent
to 1,354.99 as of 11:08 a.m. in Kuala Lumpur, set for its
highest close since Feb. 29, 2008.  
 Prime Minister  Najib Razak  said on June 10 the government
aims to almost halve its budget deficit in the next five years
as it widens its tax base and reduces expenses under a plan to
make the economy more competitive, while increasing investments
in infrastructure projects including highways and rail. The
government removed fuel and sugar subsidies this month to help
save more than 750 million ringgit this year.  
 Economic Growth  
 The  economy  grew 10.1 percent in the three months ended
March 31 after emerging from last year’s recession. It may
expand 4.5 percent to 5.5 percent in 2010, the  central bank 
forecast on March 24. Najib also said earlier this month that
“external factors” may hurt growth in the Southeast Asian
nation in the second half.  
 Second-quarter earnings are expected to remain “robust”
and the government is expected to announce the second part of
its economic and structural reforms next month, which may spur
the stock market, Oh said.  
 The announcement will “provide greater granularity on the
structural reform policies needed to put Malaysia on a higher
growth trajectory,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chan Tien Hin  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        