-- Thales Signals Potential Earnings Drag From Airbus A400M, Patrol Boat
-- Andrea Rothman
-- 2010-07-28T16:47:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/thales-signals-potential-earnings-drag-from-airbus-a400m-patrol-boat.html

          
          
             Thales SA , Europe’s biggest maker of
defense electronics, said difficulties providing equipment for
Airbus’s A400M military transport plane and a maritime patrol
boat for Turkey could have a “material impact” on results this
year.  
 The French aerospace company already a booked a first-half
charge of 102 million euros ($132 million) for the A400M’s
flight management system and additional costs could be incurred
once discussions are finished, Chief Executive Officer  Luc Vigneron  said in a statement today.  
 Thales said there’s “still an element of uncertainty”
hanging over the A400M’s software package, which controls
various aspects of the transport plane’s flight. Vigernon also
said he expects the French government to lay out its strategy
for cutting costs, including defense, around year-end.  
 “Our French customer, like other customers, is facing real
budgetary constraints after the economic crisis, and they’re in
a stage of deep reflection to see what their priorities are,”
the CEO said. “This translates into a certain slowing of new
orders and programs.”  
 First-half net income was 138 million euros, up from 12
million euros a year earlier, the company said in an e-mailed
statement. Thales also confirmed its full-year forecast for
stable revenue and a lower order intake, with an operating
margin of between 3 percent and 4 percent. The margin last year
was 1.2 percent.  
 The chief executive also said he was defending the
company’s interest when he resisted earlier pressure to consider
asset swaps with Safran SA.  
 The French military has frozen 300 million euros of
contracts with the two companies to punish them for dragging
their feet on merging some activities, Defense Minister  Herve Morin  said in an interview with Liberation earlier this week.  
 “Our discussion with Safran is founded on strategic
analysis,” the CEO said. “And I defended the interest of the
company.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Rothman  in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        