-- Amazon.com Introduces $139 Kindle Amid Apple Tussle
-- Joseph Galante
-- 2010-07-29T20:43:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/amazon-introduces-139-kindle-with-wi-fi-as-it-competes-with-apple-s-ipad.html

          
          
             Amazon.com Inc.  Chief Executive
Officer  Jeff Bezos  cut prices and added features to the Kindle
to defend it against a threat from Apple Inc. in the fast-
growing market for electronic readers.  
 Amazon.com introduced two new versions of the device,
including a $139 model that works with Wi-Fi. A second version,
with 3G mobile technology as well as Wi-Fi to download books,
costs $189. Bloomberg News reported details in May about
Amazon.com’s plans for the Kindle, its bestselling product.  
 Bezos says focusing on features that make it easier to
download and read books will help distinguish its e-reader from
Apple’s multipurpose iPad. The Kindle is the centerpiece of
Amazon.com’s strategy to capitalize on growing  consumer interest 
in digital books. By offering bestselling e-books for $9.99 that
can be read only on the Kindle or its software, Amazon.com is
seeking to lock in consumers while it’s still the market leader.  
 “We’re trying to build something that’s great for long-
form reading -- something you’d use if you want to sit down and
read for two hours,” Bezos said in an interview this week.
“Our mission on the device side of the business is to use the
latest technology to make the very best purpose-built reading
device. We think that’s a mass product.”  
 The  latest Kindles  are thinner and lighter than previous
versions and feature faster page turns and sharper resolution.
They’re also designed for easier reading in sunlight and have
batteries that will last for a month on a single charge -- two
weeks longer than the previous model.  
 The devices will ship on Aug. 27. A notice on the company’s
website says the older version of the Kindle, also $189, is
temporarily out of stock.  
 Kindle Obituaries  
 After the April debut of the iPad, which costs $499 to $829
depending on its features, obituaries for the Kindle abounded.
ZDNet technology columnist Jason Perlow predicted that
“consumer interest in the  Kindle will fade  into oblivion.”  
 Amazon.com fired back last week in its most detailed
remarks yet on the Kindle’s performance, saying sales had
accelerated every month since the iPad’s introduction.
Amazon.com doesn’t disclose specific revenue figures for the
Kindle.  
 The comments were likely aimed at easing concerns that the
iPad had crimped demand for the Kindle, said Dmitriy Molchanov,
an analyst at Yankee Group. The research firm estimates the
overall market for e-readers will be $1.27 billion this year.  
 Amazon.com wants to ensure that it’s not left behind as
consumers embrace digital books on a mass scale. Amazon.com said
last week that its sales of e-books topped those of hardcovers,
and Bezos predicts that they will soon become Amazon.com’s
biggest category of books, overtaking paperbacks in 9 to 12
months.  
 Building a Customer Base  
 “All media over time is going digital,” said  Heath Terry ,
an analyst at FBR Capital Markets Corp. “Amazon saw that
building a large base of customers would ultimately become a
competitive advantage in dealing with publishers. They want to
get there as fast as they can, before the competitors do.”  
 The competitors are coming on strong. Amazon.com controlled
about 95 percent of the U.S. e-book market at the beginning of
the year, according to  Yankee Group . By the end of December, the
market is likely to be split into thirds among Amazon.com, Apple
and Barnes & Noble Inc., which makes the Nook reader, the
research firm estimates.  
 Apple’s 3.27 million iPad sales since its April 3 release
already have surpassed the Kindle’s 3 million units, according
to an estimate by Susquehanna Financial Group.  
 Amazon.com fell 27 cents to $116.86 at 4 p.m. New York time
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have declined 13
percent this year.  
 Attractive Price  
 Bezos said Kindle sales began accelerating when the price
was cut by 27 percent to $189 in June. Offering a Kindle for $50
below that price will spur adoption even more, he said.  
 “We think at that price point people will buy multiple
units for their households,” Bezos said. “We’ve sold millions
of the prior generation of Kindles and we’re going to sell
millions of this third generation.”  
 The question for Amazon.com is whether consumers will
prefer to read digital content on devices that aren’t Kindles.
 Bill Hill , who led Microsoft Corp.’s research in on-screen
reading for 15 years, said the Kindle “proved that e-books were
practical” but will likely fade in the era of tablet computers.  
 “You want to be able to read Web content as well,” Hill
said. “You’d like to have your magazines and newspapers
delivered that way, with color pictures and video.”  
 The Kindle’s battery-sipping E Ink technology, which mimics
paper books by displaying text in black on white without any
backlighting, is fast approaching its physical limits, Hill
said. Otherwise, an E Ink color e-reader would have come out
already, he said.  
 Color Screen  
 Amazon.com is testing color technology at its lab in
Cupertino, California,  a mile from Apple’s  headquarters, though
Bezos says the screen is “not ready for prime time.”
Amazon.com earlier this year also bought a company called
Touchco, which specializes in touch-screen technology, two
people familiar with the matter said at the time. Amazon.com
hasn’t disclosed the transaction.  
 Bezos, who launched the design of the Kindle in 2004 to
speed up sales of e-books on Amazon.com, said he’s not convinced
the Kindle needs a color or touch screen right now. Bezos said
he’s already rejected certain color and touch technologies that
he says make reading more difficult. He declined to say which
ones didn’t make the cut.  
 Flashlight Shining  
 A color screen doesn’t make an  Ernest Hemingway  novel any
better, Bezos said. A touch screen causes a glare, and reading a
300-page book on the iPad’s LCD screen feels like “reading with
a flashlight shining in your eyes.”  
 “There are a number of technologies out there, and to
varying degrees we’ve examined all of them,” Bezos said. “We
want a display technology that does not compromise long-form
reading.”  
 For now, Amazon.com is relying on its library of more than
630,000 books, 81 percent of which are $9.99 or less, to lure
consumers. It also hedged its bets by making its e-books
available across a variety of devices, including iPads and
BlackBerrys.  
 “The real task Amazon has is converting people from
physical media to digital media,” Molchanov said. “Any device
that can do that will help them.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joseph Galante  in San Francisco at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The new graphite Amazon Kindle e-reader is shown in a photograph. Source: Amazon via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 29 (Bloomberg) -- Bob Rice, managing partner for Tangent Capital, talks about Amazon.com Inc.'s business strategy and the outlook for the tablet-computer market.
     Rice speaks with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The new graphite Amazon Kindle e-reader is shown in a photograph. Source: Amazon via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Jeff Bezos, founder and chief executive officer of Amazon.com, speaks during a conference in New York. Photographer: Jonathan Fickies/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
