-- American Airlines to Pay $5 Million, Give Evidence in Freight-Cartel Probe
-- Erik Larson
-- 2010-07-28T15:55:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/american-airlines-pays-5-million-to-settle-global-freight-cartel-case.html

          
          
             AMR Corp. ’s American Airlines agreed
to give evidence against other carriers and pay $5 million to a
group of freight shippers to settle a New York class-action
lawsuit over its role in a global price-fixing cartel.  
 Under the deal, American will provide witnesses, documents
and electronic data to help shippers in similar cases in Canada,
Australia, South Korea and other countries, the group’s lawyer,
 Michael Hausfeld  of  Hausfeld & Co. LLP , said in a statement in
London today. The agreement, filed July 26 in federal court in
Brooklyn, New York, is the first by an airline to help prosecute
the cartel claims outside the U.S., he said.  
 “It is an important step forward for shippers in Europe
and around the world and demonstrates that companies can act
responsibly to resolve competition disputes without resorting to
excessive or protracted litigation,” Hausfeld, who is co-lead
counsel in the case, said in the statement.  
 The industry’s freight services have been probed by the
U.S. and the European Union since 2006, leading to settlements,
fines and plea deals by airlines and executives. Earlier this
month,  Air France-KLM  Group agreed to pay $87 million to
hundreds of freight shippers to settle a similar class-action
lawsuit in the U.S.  
 American, based in Fort Worth, Texas, didn’t admit fault or
liability and was only added as a defendant in the case in order
to seek court approval of the proposed deal, spokesman  Tim Wagner  said today in an e-mail.  
 “American Airlines has done nothing wrong,” Wagner said.
“Litigation is an expensive and uncertain proposition and
avoiding the cost and inconvenience of trial made paying the
settlement the best financial decision for American.”  
 Settlement talks with American started after the EU in 2007
gave the carrier a so-called statement of objections related to
the cartel, Hausfeld said in court papers.  
 Hausfeld later concluded that “while AA did face some risk
of liability, it would be difficult for plaintiffs to obtain a
judgment against it, given the evidence,” according to the
court filing.  
 The case is In re Air Cargo Shipping Services Antitrust
Litigation, 1:06-md-01775, Eastern District of New York
(Brooklyn).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Larson  in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        