-- Language Becomes Roadblock as Japan Seeks More Foreign Skilled Workers
-- 
-- 2010-07-28T04:27:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/language-becomes-roadblock-as-japan-seeks-more-foreign-skilled-workers.html

          
          
              
By Chico Harlan
     July 28 (Washington Post) -- TOKYO -- Her new country needs
her, her new employer adores her, and Joyce Anne Paulino, who
landed here 14 months ago knowing not a word of the language, can
now say in Japanese that she'd like very much to stay. But
Paulino, 31, a nurse from the Philippines, worries about the
odds. To stay in Japan long-term, she must pass a test that
almost no foreigner passes.
     For Japan, maintaining economic relevance in the next
decades hinges on its ability -- and its willingness -- to grow
by seeking outside help. Japan has long had deep misgivings about
immigration and has tightly controlled the ability of foreigners
to live and work here.
     But with the country's population expected to fall from 127
million to below 100 million by 2055, Prime Minister Naoto Kan
last month took a step toward loosening Japan's grip on
immigration, outlining a goal to double the number of highly
skilled foreign workers within a decade.
     In Japan, just 1.7 percent of the population (or roughly 2.2
million people) is foreign or foreign-born. Foreigners represent
small slices of almost every sector of the economy, but they also
represent the one slice of the population with a chance to grow.
Japan is on pace to have three workers for every two retirees by
2060.
     But the economic partnership program that brought Paulino
and hundreds of other nurses and caretakers to Japan has a flaw.
Indonesian and Filipino workers who come to care for a vast and
growing elderly population cannot stay for good without passing a
certification test. And that test's reliance on high-level
Japanese -- whose characters these nurses cram to memorize -- has
turned the test into a de facto language exam.
     Ninety percent of Japanese nurses pass the test. This year,
three of 254 immigrants passed it. The year before, none of 82
passed.
     For immigrant advocates, a pass-or-go-home test with a
success rate of less than 1 percent creates a wide target for
criticism -- especially at a time when Japan's demographics are
increasing the need for skilled foreign labor.
     For many officials in the government and the medical
industry, however, difficulties with the program point to a
larger dilemma confronting a country whose complex language and
resistance to foreigners make it particularly tough to penetrate.
     Kan's goal to double the number of skilled foreign workers
seems reasonable enough, given that Japan currently has 278,000
college-educated foreign workers -- the United States has more
than 8 million, according to the Organization for Economic
Co-operation and Development -- but it meets some resistance.
     An Asahi Shimbun newspaper poll in June asked Japanese about
accepting immigrants to "maintain economic vitality." Twenty-six
percent favored the idea. Sixty-five percent opposed it. And the
likelihood of substantive changes in immigration policy took a
major hit, experts said, when Kan's ruling Democratic Party of
Japan saw setbacks in parliamentary elections this month.
     Political analysts now paint a grim picture of a country at
legislative impasse. Foreigners such as Paulino find it difficult
to get here, difficult to thrive and difficult to stay, and at
least for now, Kan's government will have a difficult time
changing any of that.
     "There's a lack of urgency or lack of sense of crisis for
the declining population in Japan," said Satoru Tominaga,
director of Garuda, an advocacy group for Indonesian nurse and
caretaker candidates. "We need radical policy change to build up
the number" of such workers. "However, Japan lacks a strong
government; if anything, it's in chaos."
     When Japan struck economic partnership agreements with
Indonesia and the Philippines, attracting nurses and caretakers
wasn't the primary objective. Japan sought duty-free access for
its automakers to the Southeast Asian market. Accepting skilled
labor was just part of the deal.
     But by 2025, Japan will need to almost double its number of
nurses and care workers, currently at 1.2 million. And because of
the test, substandard language skills, not substandard caretaking
skills, are keeping the obvious solution from meeting the gaping
need.
     The 998 Filipino and Indonesian nurses and caretakers who've
come to Japan since 2008 all have, at minimum, college educations
or several years of professional experience. Nurses can stay for
three years, with three chances to pass the test. Other
caregivers can stay for four years, with one chance to pass.
Those who arrive in Japan take a six-month language cram class
and then begin work as trainees.
     They are allotted a brief period every workday -- 45
minutes, in Paulino's case -- for language study. Many also study
for hours at night.
     "The language skills, that is a huge hurdle for them," said
Kiichi Inagaki, an official at the Japan International
Corporation for Welfare Services, which oversees the program.
"However, if you go around the hospital, you understand how
language is important. Nurses are dealing with medical
technicalities. They are talking to doctors about what is
important. In order to secure a safe medical system, they need a
very high standard of Japanese."
     Advocates for foreign nurses and caregivers do not play down
the importance of speaking and understanding Japanese. But they
emphasize that the Japanese characters for medical terminology
are among the hardest to learn; perhaps some jargon-heavy portion
of the certification test, they say, could be given in English or
workers' native language.
     When Paulino boarded a flight from Manila to Tokyo in May
2009, she had a sense of trepidation and adventure -- not that
she could express it in Japanese. She saw her mission as a way to
make better money and "explore herself," she said. Her first
chance for exploration came onboard, when a meal of rice, which
she doesn't like, came with chopsticks, which she didn't know how
to use.
     "All the way to Japan, we were joking about that," said
Fritzie Perez, a fellow Filipino nurse who sat in the same row.
"We were saying, 'Joyce, how are you going to eat?' "
     Now eight months into her stint at the Tamagawa Subaru
nursing home, Paulino feels comfortable speaking and joking with
the elderly people she cares for.
     "She did have problems initially, especially in the Japanese
language, but there's been so much improvement," said Keisuke
Isozaki, head of caretaking at the home. "She's not capable of
writing things down for the record, but otherwise she's as
capable as any Japanese staffer."
     Paulino said she is nervous about her test, scheduled for
January 2013. This month, 33 nurses and caretakers returned to
their home countries, discouraged with their chances.
     Her friend, Perez, described the language study and the
caretaking as "serving two masters at the same time."
     "When I get home, that's when I study," Paulino said. "But
every time I read my book, I start to fall asleep. It's bothering
me. Because [the test] is only one chance. And I don't know if I
can get it."
     Special correspondent Akiko Yamamoto contributed to this
report.
 
          
          


  


        