-- Apple Sues Over Knock-Off IPod and IPad Accessories
-- Adam Satariano
-- 2010-07-28T20:31:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/apple-sues-companies-over-knock-off-ipod-and-ipad-accessories.html

          
          
             Apple Inc.  sued companies it said
are selling unauthorized electronic accessories such as
chargers, speakers and cables for the iPod music player, iPhone
and iPad tablet computer.  
 “Many are of inferior quality and reliability, raising
significant concerns over compatibility with and damage to
Apple’s products,” Apple said in the complaint, citing a user
comment that a charger from one of the companies drained his
iPod rather than replenishing the battery.  
 The suit is an example of the tight grip Apple keeps on its
products, including approval of accessories and applications.
Apple has a program called “Made for iPod” under which
manufacturers get a license to sell accessories for devices.
Apple collects a royalty of 20 percent to 25 percent from each
sale of a licensed accessory, according to  Shaw Wu , an analyst
with Kaufman Bros. LP in San Francisco.  
 “If you sell speakers for $100, Apple gets $20 to $25,”
said Wu, who has a “buy” rating on Apple shares and doesn’t
own them.  
 In the complaint, Cupertino, California-based Apple said
the unauthorized products are infringing as many as 10 patents
and violating its trademarks.  
 “They are trying to control all aspects of their
devices,” said Mark Kesslen, chairman of the intellectual
property group at Lowenstein Sandler PC, a law firm in New York.
“They are using the various licensing agreements, partner
agreements and brand management to make sure that it stays
within their high standard.”  
 Implied Endorsement  
 Kesslen, who has represented clients seeking licensing
agreements with Apple, said it’s trying to prevent unauthorized
products from being marketed as endorsed by the company because
these sales could harm its brand.  
 The complaint, filed July 22 in federal court in San
Francisco, identifies six sellers based in California and one in
Washington and said Apple could name as many as 20 additional
companies. Calls or e-mails to five of the named companies
weren’t immediately returned, and contact information for two
companies couldn’t be obtained.  
 Apple’s policies drew attention from the U.S. Library of
Congress this week, when it said in a periodic review of
copyright laws that users could “jailbreak” their iPhones to
download applications not authorized by the company.  
 ‘Fine Line’  
 “There is a very fine line” between maintaining control
over its gadgets and anticompetitive behavior, Kesslen said.
“You have to be very careful,” he said.  
 In November, Apple sued a California company that it said
was selling knockoff power adapters for the MacBook laptop
computer. The accused company agreed to a court order that it
stop selling the products.  
 Apple sold 3.27 million iPads, 8.4 million iPhones and 9.41
million iPods in the quarter ended June 26, the company said in
its third-quarter earnings report on July 20.  
 The case is Apple Inc. v. eForCity Corp., 10-3216, U.S.
District Court for the Northern District of California (San
Francisco).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Susan Decker  in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
 Adam Satariano  in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A customer tries out the new Apple Inc. iPhone 4 smart phone. Photographer: Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
