-- ArcelorMittal Forecasts Profit Slump in Third Quarter
-- Thomas Biesheuvel
-- 2010-07-28T17:07:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/arcelormittal-posts-fourth-straight-profit-on-steel-price-demand-recovery.html

          
          
             ArcelorMittal , the world’s biggest
steelmaker, forecast third-quarter profit will slump as much as
30 percent from the prior three months as China’s economy slows,
costs rise and demand weakens during the European summer.  
 ArcelorMittal estimated earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization of $2.1 billion to $2.5 billion,
down from the $3 billion it posted today for the second quarter.
Net income last quarter was $1.7 billion, after a $792 million
loss a year ago, the company said in a statement.  
 “The second quarter results are strong, but guidance for
the third quarter is very cautious,” said  Imran Akram , a
London-based analyst at Collins Stewart Plc. ArcelorMittal’s
third-quarter Ebitda outlook compares with the $2.67 billion
average of nine analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Steelmakers are seeking to raise prices to pass on surging
raw material costs even as they face falling demand as countries
end economic incentives to buy new cars and Chinese consumption
slows. They face further cost increases in the third quarter
after leading producers of iron ore, used to make the metal,
ended a four-decade-old system of setting prices annually.  
 “The summer slowdown in Europe, as well as the economic
slowdown in China, is putting a constraint on steel prices while
raw material costs continue to rise,” Chief Financial Officer
 Aditya Mittal  told reporters on a conference call today.  
 ArcelorMittal fell 2.1 percent to 24.20 euros in Amsterdam
trading.  
 Stainless Spinoff  
 The Luxembourg-based company will study a spinoff of its
stainless steel unit to current shareholders to allow the
business to pursue growth. The unit reported Ebitda of $191
million in the second quarter on sales of $1.54 billion.  
 The spinoff would take place at the start of next year at
the earliest, with the Mittal family keeping a “substantial”
stake, Aditya Mittal said. Stainless makers face overcapacity in
Europe and may look at consolidation to cut costs, he said.  
 “The consideration of a spinoff of stainless is possibly a
smart move by management to find a solution to a major problem
area,” Olivetree Securities Ltd. analyst  Christian Georges  said
in London. “Externalizing the operation may bring opportunities
for consolidation.” It “certainly externalizes the need for
the group to get involved in a necessary restructuring.”  
 ArcelorMittal reported its fourth consecutive profit in the
second quarter as higher metal prices and demand boosted sales.  
 Prices Surge  
 “Although the third quarter will be impacted by a
combination of seasonal factors and the effects of the economic
slowdown in China, underlying demand continues to show
improvement,” Chief Executive Officer  Lakshmi Mittal  said in
the statement. “The challenge for the second half of the year
will be to pass on the full extent of cost increases to our
customers.”  
 Hot-rolled steel coil , a benchmark product used in cars and
buildings, jumped 17 percent in the second quarter to 610 euros
($795) a metric ton, the highest since 2008, according to data
compiled by Metal Bulletin.  
 Prices for iron ore bought from Vale SA, Rio Tinto Group
and BHP Billiton Ltd., the largest producers, are now set based
on market prices during the prior quarter. JPMorgan Chase & Co.
forecast prices will rise 25 percent in the third quarter.  
 Slower Chinese demand and a European debt crisis that risks
stifling the region’s property market are hurting steelmakers.
 Nucor Corp. , the largest in the U.S., said last week that profit
gains may stall, while Swedish producer SSAB Svenskt Staal AB
forecast an industry weakening. That may force companies to
reverse the year’s production gains, according to  Eurofer ,
representing European steelmakers including ArcelorMittal.  
 Cutting Output  
 ArcelorMittal said it will cut steel production in the
third-quarter because of a “seasonal slowdown.” The company
expects to use 70 percent of its capacity in the quarter
compared with 78 percent in the previous three months. It
forecast that prices would remain stable.  
 The company cut output by as much as half last year, fired
workers and sold shares and bonds to refinance debt. It raised
$11.4 billion in the second quarter of the year to accelerate
debt-reduction plans and in July renegotiated banking covenants
on about $32 billion of credit facilities.  
 ArcelorMittal  was formed by the takeover of Arcelor SA by
Mittal Steel Co. in 2006 in the industry’s biggest takeover.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Biesheuvel  in London 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Lakshmi Mittal, chairman and chief executive officer of ArcelorMittal, speaks during a conference in Sao Paulo. Photographer: Paolo Fridman  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
