-- ArcelorMittal South Africa Cancels Steel Surcharge After Kumba Supply Deal
-- Ron Derby
-- 2010-07-28T15:27:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/arcelormittal-south-africa-cancels-steel-surcharge-after-kumba-agreement.html

          
          
             ArcelorMittal South Africa Ltd. , a
unit of the world’s largest steelmaker, will cancel a surcharge
on steel products next month after reaching an interim supply
agreement with  Kumba Iron Ore Ltd.  for deliveries of iron ore.  
 The steelmaker will “charge a single, all-in price,
reflecting the higher cost of iron ore, rather than a separate
surcharge,” it said in a statement today.  
 ArcelorMittal South Africa introduced the charge from the
start of May after Kumba, which supplies two-thirds of its ore
needs, canceled a nine-year-old supply accord through which it
bought iron ore at 3 percent above the cost of production.  
 The charge, which was based on market prices, was scrapped
“because we now have a firm price from Kumba,” ArcelorMittal
South Africa Chief Executive Officer  Nonkululeko Nyembezi-Heita 
said in a presentation in Johannesburg.  
 The companies on July 22 reached agreement on an interim
supply accord under which the steelmaker will pay $50 a metric
ton for ore supplied to its mill on South Africa’s coast and $70
a ton for deliveries to its two inland mills.  
 “The new prices are being communicated to customers
today,”  Julian Gwillim , spokesman for the Vanderbijlpark-based
steelmaker, said by phone from Johannesburg.  
 ArcelorMittal South Africa, which is  47 percent-owned  by
Luxembourg-based ArcelorMittal, is still in arbitration with
Kumba over the canceled supply agreement.  
 ‘Sufficient Goodwill’  
 A resolution may take as long as two years to achieve,
Nyembezi-Heita said. “That doesn’t rule out the possibility
that a long-term agreement could be reached” sooner, she said.  
 The government, which is mediating the dispute, has set up
an inter-ministerial team to help resolve the issue, involving
the departments of trade and industry, mineral resources and
economic planning.  
 ArcelorMittal South Africa, which supplies about 70 percent
of the country’s steel needs, threatened to close its Saldanha
steel mill, with thousands of job losses, if it were forced to
pay market prices for iron ore.  
 There’s “sufficient goodwill on all sides to try find a
solution,” Nyembezi-Heita said.  
 ArcelorMittal South Africa rose for a seventh day in
Johannesburg trading, climbing 1.80 rand, or 2.1 percent, to
close at 86.30 rand. The  stock  has dropped 16 percent this year,
cutting the company’s market value to 38.5 billion rand ($5.2
billion).  
 Earlier, the steelmaker posted first-half net income of
1.78 billion rand, compared with a year-earlier loss of 848
million rand. Third-quarter earnings will decline from the
second quarter because of lower international steel prices and
higher input costs, the company said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ron Derby  in Johannesburg at 
 rderby1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        