-- Areva, EDF Need to `Get Along' to Foster Nuclear Exports, Lagarde Says
-- Francois de Beaupuy
-- 2010-07-28T08:20:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/areva-edf-should-cooperate-to-win-nuclear-contracts-abroad-lagarde-says.html

          
          
             Areva SA and  Electricite de France
SA  must cooperate to win contracts to build nuclear reactors
abroad, according to French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde .  
 “Our two big nuclear champions must imperatively get
along,” Lagarde said today in an interview on RTL radio
following the publication of a report yesterday on France’s
nuclear industry and government plans to sell shares in Areva.  
 “There must be a strategic partnership between Areva and
EDF each time that it’s necessary for exports,” Lagarde said,
calling for EDF to be the “leader” as the operator of France’s
58 nuclear reactors.  
 Areva , the world’s largest maker of nuclear reactors, will
sell a maximum 15 percent in new shares this year to improve
finances and sign a partnership with EDF, the government said
yesterday. Investors will be both industrial and financial and
may also include EDF, which holds 2.5 percent. About 4 percent
of Areva trades in Paris as non-voting investment certificates.  
 The share sale will be open to partners Areva “has been
working for a long time” with, Lagarde said, citing Mitsubishi
Heavy Industries Ltd. and wealth funds of Kuwait and Qatar. “If
EDF also wants to there is no reason to keep them out.”  
 The report by  Francois Roussely , a former EDF chief
executive officer and now an investment banker at Credit Suisse
Group AG, highlighted some of the obstacles faced by the French
nuclear industry in winning contracts abroad.  
 Areva and EDF should modify the design of the new-
generation EPR reactor and add smaller models to win contracts,
according to the recommendations of the report. The reactor’s
“complexity” is “a handicap” for its development and cost
and may explain the difficulties the companies are facing in
developing models in Finland and France, the report said.  
 The report was commissioned by President Nicolas Sarkozy,
who received it in May.  
 A group of French companies lost a joint bid for a $20
billion contract in the United Arab Emirates in December,
sparking criticism from Sarkozy that the companies were engaged
in “counter-productive” competition.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tara Patel  in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        