-- Argentina's Cordoba Province to Sell Bonds at Lower Cost Than Buenos Aires
-- Drew Benson
-- 2010-07-28T21:58:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/argentina-s-cordoba-province-to-sell-bonds-at-lower-cost-than-buenos-aires.html

          
          
             Cordoba, Argentina’s third-largest
province, will pay lower yields on its first international bond
than Buenos Aires because Cordoba is in “better shape” than
its neighbor, according to  Agustin Honig , a managing director at
New York-based Abadi & Co. Securities Ltd.’s local unit.  
 “In general terms, the province of Cordoba is in better
shape than the province of Buenos Aires,” Honig said in a
telephone interview from Buenos Aires.  
 Cordoba, located in the heart of the South American
country, may pay 12 percent on overseas bonds, or about 2
percentage points less than the yield on Buenos Aires province’s
9.375 percent notes due in 2018, according to Honig.  
 Buenos Aires province, the largest in Argentina and home to
more than 12.9 million people, posted a budget deficit equal to
10.7 percent of revenue last year compared with 3.3 percent for
Cordoba, according to  Patricio Esnaola , an analyst at Moody’s
Investors Service in Buenos Aires. Cordoba recorded budget
surpluses in each of the previous six years.  
 Cordoba, headed by Peronist Governor  Juan Schiaretti , hired
Citigroup Inc. and UBS AG to arrange the sale of dollar bonds,
said a person familiar with the transaction who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t set.  
 Debt Restructuring  
 State-run Banco de Cordoba director  Alejandro Henke  headed
to Los Angeles yesterday to market the offering to investors,
his Buenos Aires-based assistant Marina Cicconi said. Cordoba
Finance Secretary Monica Zornberg referred calls to state-run
 Banco de Cordoba , which is managing the sale for the province.  
 Buenos Aires Economy Ministry spokeswoman  Felisa Stangatti 
did not return two calls seeking comment.  
 Cordoba hired Moody’s to rate the province’s bond, Esnaola
said. Buenos Aires’s 2018 notes are rated B3, six levels below
investment grade, by Moody’s.  
 Henke said in March the province was waiting for the
Argentine government to complete a restructuring of defaulted
debt before tapping overseas markets. President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  last month closed an offer to swap $18.3
billion in debt held by creditors who rejected a 2005 settlement
offer, sparking a decline in borrowing costs.  
 The extra yield investors demand to hold  Argentine  dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell 31 basis points to 665 at
5:33 p.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. The
gap is down from 846 on July 1.  
 Default Swaps  
 Yields on Argentina’s benchmark dollar bonds due in 2015
rose 14 basis points, or 0.14 percentage point, to 10.85
percent, according to Deutsche Bank AG prices. Warrants linked
to economic growth slid 0.05 cent to 9.65 cents.  
 The cost of protecting Argentine debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps rose one basis point to
805, according to data compiled by CMA DataVision. Credit-
default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  
 The peso declined 0.1 percent today at 3.9341 per dollar.  
 Cordoba sold $150 million of 12 percent bonds due in 2017
in the local market in November.  
 Chubut province, the nation’s top oil producer, last week
sold $150 million of notes backed by oil and gas royalties paid
by BP PLC-controlled Pan American Energy LLC, Argentina’s
biggest oil exporter. Chubut sold the notes through a trust to
yield 9.66 percent, placing $104 million internationally and $46
million domestically.  
 The yield on Buenos Aires’s notes due in 2018 dropped 49
basis points today to 13.5 percent, according to data compiled
by Deutsche Bank. That’s down from a two-month high of 17.37
percent in May.  
 Buenos Aires has historically suffered from “chronic
deficits,” Moody’s Esnaola said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Drew Benson  in Buenos Aires at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Cordoba Governor Juan Schiaretti, center, attends a police graduation ceremony. Source: Province of Cordoba Press Office  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
