-- Arizona Will Appeal Ruling on Immigration Law, Governor Says
-- William McQuillen
-- 2010-07-29T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/arizona-is-barred-from-enforcing-part-of-immigration-law-by-federal-judge.html

          
          
             Arizona Governor  Jan Brewer  said she
will appeal a judge’s ruling that struck key provisions of a
state law that would have forced police to determine the
immigration status of people stopped for questioning.  
 U.S. District Judge  Susan Bolton  in Phoenix held yesterday
that the state can’t mandate that police make a “reasonable
attempt” to determine whether a person is legally in the U.S.
and then detain him if there is “suspicion” that he isn’t.  
 Arizona will have a difficult time with an immediate appeal
to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in San
Francisco, said  Peter Spiro , an immigration professor at Temple
University’s law school in Philadelphia. Courts would be
unlikely to revisit any rulings until Bolton holds a trial on
the merits of the case.  
 “The key provisions of the Arizona law were
unprecedented,” Spiro said in an interview. “It’s a sound
ruling.”  
 The U.S. government and American Civil Liberties Union had
asked Bolton to bar the state from enforcing the law, which the
ACLU claimed would allow unconstitutional racial profiling by
police. Bolton declined to grant a blanket injunction against
the law.  
 “The United States is likely to suffer irreparable harm if
the court does not preliminarily enjoin enforcement,” the judge
wrote. “Even though Arizona’s interests may be consistent with
those of the federal government, it is not in the public
interest for Arizona to enforce preempted laws.”  
 The judge also barred enforcement of provisions making it a
crime for illegal immigrants to solicit or perform work. In
addition, the ruling blocked police officers from warrantless
arrests of people they think might be illegal immigrants. Those
provisions of the law would have taken effect today.  
 Portions Upheld  
 Bolton upheld parts of the law making it illegal for a
person to stop a vehicle to pick up day laborers if it impedes
traffic and prohibiting Arizona officials from limiting
enforcement of federal immigration laws.  
 The Arizona statute would have required police officers who
come in contact with someone for a law enforcement-related
reason to check the individual’s immigration status if they
suspect the person lacks proper documentation. The U.S. argued
that under the Constitution, immigration policy and enforcement
is exclusively a federal power.  
 Bolton said the Arizona law would allow stops for “very
minor non-criminal violations” such as jaywalking or walking a
dog without a leash, and its enforcement would result in
shifting federal resources away from other priorities. Lawful
citizens would see their detention time increased for minor
violations, said Bolton, who was appointed by President  Bill Clinton .  
 ‘Immigration Status’  
 “Requiring Arizona law enforcement officials and agencies
to determine the immigration status of every person who is
arrested burdens lawfully present aliens because their liberty
will be restricted while their status is checked,” she wrote.  
 Arizona has portrayed the law as a response to failure by
the federal government to help the state deal with an influx of
illegal immigrants.  
 “For anyone willing to see it -- the crisis is as clear as
is the federal government’s failure to address it,” Brewer said
yesterday in a statement. She said the “fight is far from
over.”  
 The policies reflected in the law will assist the U.S. in
meeting its goal of curbing illegal immigration, Arizona’s
lawyers contended in court papers.  
 ‘Broken’ System  
 “While we understand the frustration of Arizonans with the
broken immigration system, a patchwork of state and local
policies would seriously disrupt federal immigration enforcement
and would ultimately be counterproductive,” Hannah August, a
Justice Department spokeswoman, said in a statement. The court
ruled “correctly,” she said.  
 Bolton questioned the parties through almost four hours of
hearings on July 22, saying she wanted to be sure to deal with
the specifics “provision by provision.”  
 Arizona is “under attack” from Mexican drug and
immigrant-smuggling cartels as a result of federal policies,
Brewer said this month. The law, which Brewer has said doesn’t
allow racial profiling or discrimination, is a “reasonable and
constitutional” response, the state claimed. Barring its
implementation would “inflict significant and tangible,
irreparable harm” to Arizona, the state’s lawyers wrote.  
 Immigration activists are likely to ramp up pressure on
lawmakers and seek policy changes on a federal level after the
failure in Arizona, Spiro said.  
 ‘No Winners Here’  
 “There are no winners here,” U.S. Representative  Ann Kirkpatrick  of Arizona, a Democrat, said in a statement. “No
matter what the courts ultimately decide, we will still have
wasted millions of dollars and our borders will still not be
secure.”  
 Former Mexican President  Vicente Fox  yesterday criticized
the Arizona law as unfairly attacking immigrants who contribute
to the state’s economy.  
 “I think xenophobic measures taken by Arizona and its
government are totally wrong,” Fox said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness” before the ruling.  
 The plaintiffs also said the law would hinder law-
enforcement because residents, concerned that their accents or
appearance could trigger a police inquiry into their immigration
status, would be less likely to attend community meetings or
report crimes.  
 “What happens if essentially we have 50 different
immigration policies?”  David Cook-Martin , a professor of
sociology at Grinnell College and researcher for the National
Science Foundation’s Race, Immigration, and Citizenship in the
Americas project, asked before the ruling. “This is a huge
issue here. It’s hard to foster trade when unsure what our
overall policy is.”  
 The cases are United States of America v. State of Arizona,
2:10cv1413, and Friendly House v. Whiting, 10cv1061, U.S.
District Court, District of Arizona (Phoenix).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 William McQuillen  in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     “America is not going to sit back and allow the ongoing federal failures to continue,” Arizona Governor Jan Brewer said in a statement. Photographer: Ron Sachs/Pool via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Tucson Police officer Luis Hernandez  questions a suspect in Tucson, Arizona.  Photographer: Scott Olson/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
