-- Mars Voyage Brings Spooky Hand, Odd Sex, to U.S. in Sci-Fi Epic
-- Jeffrey Burke
-- 2010-07-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/mars-mission-brings-severed-hand-weird-sex-to-u-s-in-sci-fi-epic-books.html

          
          
             When having zero-gravity sex in a
spacecraft crammed with sensitive equipment, astronauts should
practice some form of emission control.  
 To learn why, you’ll have to spend a few days with Rick
Moody’s comic, grim, tender and masterful novel, “ The Four
Fingers of Death .” It’s a sly science-fiction tale loosely
sprung from the 1963 horror film “The Crawling Hand,” which is
to say an astronaut’s murderous severed arm has more than a
creep-on role.  
 Moody may be best known for “ The Ice Storm ” (1994), which
was made into a 1997 movie directed by  Ang Lee  and starring
 Kevin Kline  and  Sigourney Weaver .  
 As the new book opens, the year is “2025 or thereabouts,”
the place Rio Blanco, a town in southern Arizona that reflects
the sharp economic decline of the U.S. Algae-based gasoline
costs $35 a gallon. The national debt is in the trillions.
Social Security is history. A popular music genre is “dead
girlfriend.” Moody takes much of contemporary U.S. woes and
worsens them without taxing plausibility.  
 A writer named Montese Crandall with a sideline in baseball
cards plays a chess game with a movie novelizer named D.
Tyrannosaurus who covets a rare card depicting Dave McClintock,
a pitcher who replaced the arm he lost in a car accident with a
bionic one.  
 Monty wins, however, and his prize is D.’s latest
novelization contract, for a 2025 remake of “The Crawling Hand”
titled “The Four Fingers of Death.”  
 Mars Mission  
 That introduction and an afterword are just the frame, a
mere 76 pages fore and aft, for the novelization, in which nine
astronauts travel to Mars and only one returns -- that is, only
part of one returns. Cue theremin music.  
 The voyage and time on the Red Planet, also 15 years from
now, make for a suspenseful, sometimes harrowing tale, in which
stress, rape, broken and severed extremities and murder take
their toll on the Mars colony.  
 The astronauts are further divided over a secret side of
the mission that gradually emerges. It involves mining silicon
dioxide for the manufacture of microprocessors that will be
combined with a deadly Martian pathogen called M.
thanatobacillus to create “a new cybernetic life-form.” The
ultimate goal is a commercial coup that will end the global
dominance of the Sino-Indian Economic Compact.  
 Hailing Mr. Rogers  
 This section is narrated by the mission’s “official
documentarian,” Colonel Jed Richards, whose often irreverent
voice helps lighten the tone. As the first person to set foot on
Mars, he discards his scripted speech and says “‘Houston, it is
a beautiful day in the neighborhood.’” (The signature line from
television’s  Mr. Rogers  goes well with a diarist who addresses
his remarks to “Kids.”)  
 Jed heads back to Earth with a bad case of the highly
contagious hemorrhagic, limb-disassembling condition produced by
M. thanatobacillus. In the final throes of the disease, he
destroys the re-entry vehicle but sends his arm falling to the
desert outside Rio Blanco.  
 After the tension of outer space, Moody delivers a broadly
satirical release on Earth. There’s a lot here I don’t want to
spoil, but I can reveal that the hand, besides strangling a few
people, gets into a juicy three-way with two teens, one of whom
is the son of Woo Lee Koo, a Korean stem-cell specialist at the
University of Rio Blanco who believes he can revive his dead and
frozen wife with M. thanatobacillus, especially after the
success he’s had injecting some of her brain into that of a
chimp named Morton.  
 Moody’s Riffs  
 Moody opened his previous novel, “ The Diviners”  (2005),
with an extended riff on the sun rising across the world the day
after  George W. Bush  was elected in 2000. In the new book, he
runs delightful riffs on, among other things, duct tape, jet
packs, the stars over the desert and the ever-changing occupants
of a campus house that eventually takes in the founder of an
alternative-lifestyle group called omnium gatherum.  
 Then it’s back to Montese Crandall, who provides a
facetious academic “Afterword: On the Crawling Hand” and a
reminder, much-needed after 700 pages, that in the introduction,
Monty’s wife, Tara, had wasted away after a double lung
transplant, as Woo Lee Koo’s wife wasted away from Huntington’s
chorea before the eyes of her helpless doctor-husband.  
 There are countless parallels like that, and they highlight
Moody’s gift for being as thoughtful as he is entertaining.  
 “The Four Fingers of Death” is published by  Little Brown 
(725 pages, $25.99). To order this book in North America, click
 here .  
 ( Jeffrey Burke  is an editor with Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer on the story:
Jeffrey Burke in New York at 
 jburke21@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       "The Four Fingers of Death"  
                       
                         
                           Little, Brown & Company  via Bloomberg 
                         
                         The cover jacket of "The Four Fingers of Death." The book is the latest by Rick Moody, who also penned "The Diviners." 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The cover jacket of "The Four Fingers of Death." The book is the latest by Rick Moody, who also penned "The Diviners." Source: Little, Brown & Company  via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Author Rick Moody. "The Four Fingers of Death" is the latest book by Moody. Photographer: Thatcher Keats/Little, Brown & Company via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
