-- Stocks, Oil Retreat on Economy; Dollar Slips Versus Yen
-- Rita Nazareth
-- 2010-07-28T20:11:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/asia-stocks-rise-on-canon-earnings-yen-gains-on-u-s-sentiment.html

          
          
             U.S. stocks  fell, Europe’s benchmark
equity index halted a six-day rally and the dollar slipped
versus the yen as an unexpected drop in American durable-goods
orders added to evidence the economic recovery is slowing.  
 The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  lost 0.7 percent to
1,106.12 at the 4 p.m. close in New York. The  Stoxx Europe 600
Index  fell 0.4 percent. Oil slid to a one-week low as government
data showed an unexpected gain in U.S. inventories, and the
dollar slid from the highest in almost two weeks versus the yen.
Copper rose to an 11-week high on signs growth is sufficient in
China and the U.S. to spur demand. Treasuries rallied, sending
10-year yields below 3 percent.  
 Nine of 10 industries in the S&P 500 fell after orders for 
U.S. goods meant to last at least three years dropped 1 percent 
in June, depressed by less demand for aircraft, government data
showed. Equities extended losses in the afternoon as the
Federal Reserve said U.S. economic growth slowed in some 
areas over the past two months, dragged down by commercial 
real estate and the expiration of a tax credit for homebuyers.  
 “The scars remain,” said  David Rosenberg , chief economist
at Gluskin Sheff & Associates Inc. in Toronto, in a radio
interview with  Tom Keene  on Bloomberg Surveillance. “The
transition to the next sustainable economic expansion is usually
between five and seven years. The good news is that we finished
two years of this. The glass is half empty. There could be
between three to five years to go.”  
 Dow Rally Halted  
 The drop in durable goods orders, which followed a bigger-
than-forecast decrease in consumer confidence yesterday, added
to concern that the economic recovery is slowing even after
improving corporate earnings triggered an 8.2 percent rebound in
the S&P 500 from a 10-month low on July 2.  
 “Economic activity has continued to increase, on balance,
since the previous survey,” the central bank said today in its
Beige Book business survey, while noting that two of the Fed’s
12 districts reported the economy “held steady” and two said
the expansion slowed.
       The Dow Jones Industrial Average  snapped a four-day streak
of gains, falling 39.81 points, or 0.4 percent, to 10,497.88.
Boeing Co. slid 1.9 percent to lead declines after second-
quarter sales fell 9.2 percent to $15.6 billion, trailing
analysts’ estimates.  
 Earnings  have topped analysts’ projections at about 81
percent of companies in the S&P 500 that have reported results
since July 12 and per-share profit has grown 54 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales have increased
9.2 percent and topped estimates at 66 percent of 219 companies.  
 Crude oil for September delivery tumbled 0.7 percent to
$76.93 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange after the
Energy Department’s inventory report showed supplies surged by
7.31 million barrels to 360.8 million in the week ended July 23.  
 Copper Rallies  
 Copper for September delivery climbed 1.2 percent to
$3.2455 a pound in New York, the highest settlement price since
mid-May, and lead and zinc jumped at least 2 percent in London.  
 The gains in industrial metals came after the Shanghai
Composite Index of equities jumped 2.3 percent to a two-month
high as the central bank said China’s economic fundamentals are
“good” and the U.S. Commerce Department’s durable-goods report
showed that orders and shipments for nonmilitary capital goods
excluding aircraft climbed 0.6 percent in June.  
 Wheat futures surged to a 13-month high and corn and
soybeans rose as drought damages crops in Russia, Ukraine and
other parts of Europe, increasing demand for supplies from the
U.S., the world’s biggest exporter. Wheat futures for September
delivery jumped 3.4 percent to $6.155 a bushel in Chicago.
Earlier, the price reached $6.2325, the highest level since June
12, 2009.  
 Bond Auction  
 Treasury shorter-term securities led gains as the
government sold $37 billion of five-year notes in the smallest
auction of the debt in a year, the second of three note sales
this week totaling $104 billion.  
 The 10-year Treasury yield slipped 5 basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 2.99 percent. The yield on five-year notes
slipped 9 basis points to 1.7 percent. The dollar slipped 0.5
percent versus the yen, while gaining against 11 of its 16 other
most-traded counterparts.  
 Today’s auction drew a yield of 1.796 percent, compared
with an average forecast of 1.820 percent in a Bloomberg News
survey of seven of the Fed’s 18 primary dealers. The bid-to-
cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing total bids with
total securities offered, was 3.06, compared with an average of
2.66 for the previous 10 sales.  
 Default Swaps  
 A benchmark indicator of corporate credit risk in the U.S.
rose, while holding near the lowest level in two months. Credit-
default swaps on the Markit CDX North America Investment Grade
Index, which investors use to hedge against losses on corporate
debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased 2.6 basis
points to a mid-price of 105.1 basis points, according to index
administrator Markit Group Ltd.  
 More than two stocks fell for each that advanced in
Europe’s Stoxx 600. Yell Group Plc slumped 19 percent after the
publisher posted a drop in profit. Nexans SA lost 8.5 percent
after the world’s biggest maker of cables and wires reported
narrowing first-half margins. Safran SA and Infineon
Technologies AG climbed more than 2 percent after the companies
raised their earnings outlooks.  
 Japan’s  Nikkei-225 Stock Average  posted the biggest jump
among major global equity indexes, rising 2.7 percent, after
Tokyo-based Canon Inc., the world’s largest camera maker,
reported earnings that beat analysts’ estimates.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Stephen Kirkland  in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The MSCI Asia Pacific Index climbed 0.7 percent to 118.88 as of 11:33 a.m. in Tokyo, extending its gain in the past four days to 2.9 percent. Photographer: Kimimasa Mayama/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 28 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Courtney Donohoe reports on the performance of the U.S. equity market today.
     U.S. stocks fell, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lower for a second day, after orders or durable goods unexpectedly decreased and the Federal Reserve said economic growth slowed in some areas. Bloomberg's Pimm Fox also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 28 (Bloomberg) -- Barry Knapp, head of U.S. equity at Barclays Capital, talks about the outlook for the U.S. stock market.
     Knapp talks with Carol Massar, Jon Erlichman and Sheila Dharmarajan on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 28 (Bloomberg) -- Vikas Pershad, chief executive officer of Chicago-based Veda Investments LLC, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the outlook for Indian stocks.
     Pershad, speaking from Chicago, also discusses India's economy and central bank monetary policy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
