-- Massey Says Increased Federal Mining Inspections Reduce Coal Productivity
-- Mario Parker
-- 2010-07-28T16:55:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/massey-says-increased-federal-mining-inspections-reduce-coal-productivity.html

          
          
             Massey Energy Co. , the owner of the
West Virginia mine where 29 people died in April, said increased
scrutiny from government inspectors reduced productivity at its
operations during the second quarter.  
 Massey’s coal production was about 500,000 tons lower than
expected in its deep mine operations due to reduced productivity
amid “distractions” from the Upper Big Branch accident,
temporary shutdowns and increased inspections,  Baxter Phillips ,
the company’s president, said today on a conference call with
analysts.  
 Massey said in a statement yesterday that shipments during
the quarter dropped below its projections by about 1 million
tons, of which 700,000 tons were lost due to lower productivity
and temporary shutdowns. Three export shipments were delayed to
July from June, accounting for about 220,000 tons of the
shortfall, the company said.  
 “Certainly investor focus is on Massey’s ability to focus
on this year’s tragic events and achieve their targets in what
could be a very robust coal market,” said  Michael Dudas , an
analyst at Jefferies & Co. Inc. in New York. “They’re set up to
do so, but with anything in Central Appalachia it’s going to be
a challenge.”  
 Massey rose 65 cents, or 2.2 percent, to $30.30 at 11:38
a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
have fallen 45 percent since the fatal blast on April 5.  
 Earnings Report  
 The coal producer yesterday reported a net loss of $88.7
million on costs associated with the disaster and lowered its
sales estimate for the year. Massey lost 88 cents a share,
compared with a profit of $20.2 million, or 24 cents, a year
earlier, the company said.  
 Massey, based in Richmond, Virginia, took a  pretax charge 
of $128.9 million in its second-quarter and first-half results
for the accident.  
 The company said it  expects  to ship 39 million to 40.5
million tons of coal this year, down from a previous estimate
for as much as 43 million tons.  
 Chief Executive Officer  Don Blankenship , 60, said he may
seek to access other section of the reserves mined at Upper Big
Branch that weren’t affected by the explosion.  
 Massey said in April that it planned to increase output at
other operations to fill the void left by Upper Big Branch. The
company began production at a surface mine in Pike County,
Kentucky, in May and said it would start output at its Buchanan,
Virginia, mine this month.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mario Parker  in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        