-- AstraZeneca Wins Backing on Drug to Rival Plavix and Replace Aging Drugs
-- Trista Kelley
-- 2010-07-28T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/astrazenca-wins-backing-on-drug-to-rival-plavix-and-replace-aging-drugs.html

          
          
             AstraZeneca Plc , facing expiring
patents on its top-selling products, moved closer to winning
U.S. approval for a blood thinner to rival Plavix, the world’s
second-biggest drug.  
 Outside advisers to the Food and Drug Administration voted
7-1 yesterday in favor of using the AstraZeneca’s Brilinta to
reduce the risk of heart attacks, strokes and death in patients
with severe chest pain or earlier heart attacks. The panel said
concerns that U.S. study participants did worse on the drug than
people in other countries may be the result of chance and could
be examined in a future trial after the drug is approved.  
 Brilinta  sales  could reach $1.47 billion by 2016, according
to the average estimate of three analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
AstraZeneca, the U.K.’s second biggest drugmaker, needs to
replenish revenue over the next four years as patents expire on
top-sellers Nexium, for heartburn, and the antipsychotic
Seroquel, the  generators  of a combined $9.83 billion in 2009.  
 “From a commercial perspective, I do see a higher hurdle
to capture share in the U.S.,” said  Amit Roy , an analyst at
Nomura International and cardiac surgeon, in a telephone
interview yesterday from London. He said he anticipates that the
FDA will approve the drug based on the overall data.  
 American depositary receipts of London-based AstraZeneca
rose 2.6 percent, or $1.33, to $52.84 in extended New York Stock
Exchange composite trading yesterday, after closing 3.2 percent
higher before the voting. Each ADR represents one ordinary
share.  
 FDA Decision  
 The FDA is scheduled to decide on Brilinta by Sept. 19.
While the agency usually follows the recommendations of its
panels, it isn’t required to do so. The advisory panel  met 
yesterday in Adelphi, Maryland.  
 Brilinta would compete with  Bristol-Myers  Squibb Co. and
 Sanofi-Aventis  SA’s Plavix and Effient, sold by  Eli Lilly  & Co.
All three are pills designed to prevent platelets in the blood
from clumping together to form clots, which can cause heart
attacks and strokes.  
 Plavix, introduced in 1997, had sales of $9.8 billion last
year. Effient, approved in July 2009, had $27 million in sales
last year for Indianapolis-based Lilly and its marketing
partner,  Daiichi Sankyo Co.  of Tokyo.  
 Brilinta is under review for use in people with previous
heart attacks and chest pain known as acute coronary syndromes.  
 Results from AstraZeneca’s key company-funded study, called
Plato, indicated the drug was generally more effective than
Plavix in worldwide testing. At the same, it seemed to be worse
for study participants in just the U.S. and Canada. In a report
released this week, FDA staff rejected AstraZeneca’s suggestion
that higher U.S.  aspirin  use contributed to the outcome.  
 Use in U.S.  
 “Based on how the drug is used in the U.S., it’s not clear
it has an advantage, and it may have a disadvantage,” said  Jeff Holford , a London-based analyst with Jefferies International, in
a telephone interview yesterday. “The commercial application in
the U.S., without resolving that issue, is clearly impacted.”  
 While it’s not unprecedented for a study to show less
benefit for U.S. patients and still be used for approval, “the
discrepancy was larger than we usually see,” according to  Bob Temple , director of the FDA’s Office of Drug Evaluation.  
 “I’m obviously concerned about it,” said panel chairman
 Sanjay Kaul , the director of cardiology fellowship training at
Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. “The issue in my
mind comes down to whether we require the sponsor to minimize or
eliminate the uncertainty pre-approval or post-approval in a
manner that the FDA is able to control.”  
 Twice-a-Day Brilinta  
 Plavix and Effient are both taken daily and remain
effective for one week after treatment is halted. Twice-a-day
Brilinta, known chemically as ticagrelor, wears off more quickly
so it may pose a lower risk of bleeding for surgery patients.  
 “I think it will be a very important advance in medicine”
if approved, said  David Pearle , a cardiologist and professor at
Georgetown University Hospital in Washington, in a telephone
interview. “It may be that ticagrelor will be our everyday
workhorse with the others being used in certain niches.”  
 In the Plato study, 18,624 patients got Brilinta or Plavix
for a year after being treated for a heart attack or worsening
chest pain. With Brilinta, 9.8 percent of patients had a heart
attack, stroke or died from cardiovascular disease. That
compared with 11.7 percent for those on Plavix, according to
data published in August 2009. Death from all causes was 4.5
percent with Brilinta and 5.9 percent with Plavix.  
 Discussions with FDA  
 “We look forward to continued discussions with the FDA as
it evaluates the panel’s recommendation and completes its
review, said  Howard Hutchinson , AstraZeneca’s chief medical
officer. The company is scheduled to report second-quarter
 earnings  today.  
 About 733,000 hospitalizations in 2006 were credited to
heart attacks and chest pain, representing a “conservative
estimate” of the prevalence of acute coronary syndromes,
according to the  American Heart Association .  Cardiovascular
disease  remains the leading cause of death worldwide.  
 Lipitor, made by New York-based Pfizer Inc., is the world’s
best-selling drug with 2009  revenue  of $11.4 billion.
 GlaxoSmithKline  Plc is the biggest U.K. drugmaker and, like
AstraZeneca, is based in London.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Catherine Larkin  in Adelphi, Maryland, at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net .
 Trista Kelley  in London at 
 Tkelley2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        