-- Atos Prepares for Government Spending Cuts as Profit Triples
-- Matthew Campbell
-- 2010-07-28T11:04:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/atos-origin-net-more-than-triples-as-computer-services-provider-cuts-costs.html

          
          
             Atos Origin SA , France’s second-
biggest provider of computer services, said first-half profit
more than tripled as it cut costs, beating analysts’ estimates.  
 Net income climbed to 60 million euros ($78 million) from
18 million euros a year earlier, the Paris-based  company  said in
a statement today. Analysts predicted profit of 46.8 million
euros, according to the average of five estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  
 Computer-services providers are looking to increase sales
as clients complete upgrades they delayed during the global
recession. Worldwide revenue from selling software as a service
to businesses will rise about 14 percent this year to more than
$8.5 billion as companies shift to so-called cloud computing,
with their software hosted remotely by third parties and
accessed online, research firm Gartner Inc. said on July 22.  
 Atos may experience a “progressive return to growth, I
think, at the start of next year,” Senior Executive Vice
President  Gilles Grapinet  said on a conference call with
reporters.  
 Atos shares  fell  3.4 percent to 32.42 euros as of 12:59
p.m. in Paris, valuing the company at 2.26 billion euros.  
 The company is working with European governments, including
in the U.K., to minimize the impact of budget cuts, Grapinet
said. “Clearly, compared with 2009, when the public sector was
a growing area, things are changing,” he said.  
 Improved Margin  
 Operating margin in the first six months rose to 6 percent
from 4.6 percent, led by gains in the managed services unit. In
France, Atos’s largest market by revenue, operating margin fell
to 3.1 percent from 3.9 percent, compared with an increase to
9.3 percent from 6.7 percent in the Benelux countries.  
 Atos reduced maintenance costs by 17 percent and paid 5
percent less for office space in the period, it said.  
 In terms of margin, “France was clearly disappointing,”
Kepler Capital Markets analyst  Laurent Daure  said in a note to
clients. In general, “we don’t see a significant uptick in
sales short term,” said Daure, who has a “hold” rating on the
stock.  
 Sales declined 4.6 percent to 2.49 billion euros, though
Asian business and the Vancouver Olympics, for which Atos
provided computing services, helped boost sales in the
international segment by 7 percent. Chief Executive Officer
 Thierry Breton  reiterated full-year targets.  
 Atos is betting on upgrades to energy and environmental
infrastructure to help drive revenue growth. The company
announced a contract this month to maintain nuclear power plant
simulators for  Electricite de France SA , the operator of the
country’s atomic facilities.  
 CEO Breton has also advocated the development of a trans-
Mediterranean energy grid capable of transporting as much as
five gigawatts of electricity between Europe and Africa.  
 Cap Gemini SA  is the largest French and European provider of
computer services.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Campbell  in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Net income climbed to 60 million euros  
                       
                         
                           Tatiana Grigorenko/Bloomberg 
                         
                         The exterior of the Atos Origin headquarters. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The exterior of the Atos Origin headquarters. Photographer: Tatiana Grigorenko/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
