-- Attorney General Holder Says U.S. Probing Leaks of Afghanistan Documents
-- Mahmoud Kassem
-- 2010-07-28T09:51:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/attorney-general-holder-says-u-s-probing-leaks-of-afghanistan-documents.html

          
          
             U.S. Attorney General  Eric Holder 
said the Justice Department was investigating the source of the
leaking of secret U.S. military reports on Afghanistan to the
 WikiLeaks  website.  
 “The Justice Department is working with the Department of
Defense with regard to an investigation concerning who the
source of those leaks might be,” said Holder, who spoke at the
U.S. Embassy in Cairo today. “Whether there will be any
criminal charges brought depends on how the investigation
goes.”  
 WikiLeaks published more than 91,000 secret military
reports from Afghanistan which cover the period from about
2004 up to a change in war strategy initiated by President
 Barack Obama  last year. The U.S. and Pakistan have dismissed
portions of the documents that indicate the American military
suspects Pakistan’s main intelligence agency of secretly aiding
the Taliban and other Islamic extremists battling the U.S. in
Afghanistan.  
 “I deplore the release of classified information,” said
Holder. “It’s not in the interest of the United States to have
that kind of information leaked.”  
 Obama said yesterday he’s “concerned about the disclosure
of sensitive information from the battlefield that could
potentially jeopardize individuals or operations.” Reports on
the memos appeared on July 25 in the New York Times, Britain’s
 Guardian  newspaper and Germany’s  Der Spiegel  magazine.  
 Confidential Material  
 Conceived as an electronic dead drop for confidential
documents, WikiLeaks.org receives material that governments and
businesses seek to keep secret and publishes them so that they
remain in the public domain forever.  
 The most notable WikiLeaks release before the Afghan cables
was a military video of a July 2007 helicopter attack in Iraq
that killed a Reuters television cameraman and his driver. A
U.S. soldier, Bradley Manning, was charged by military
prosecutors July 5 with leaking the video, released under the
title “collateral murder.”  
 The Obama administration is investigating who disclosed the
documents, White House spokesman  Robert Gibbs  said yesterday.
Most of the memos date from before Obama took office in January,
2009, and revamped his Afghanistan policy in December, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mahmoud Kassem  in Cairo at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        