-- AU Optronics Profit Beats Estimates on TV Demand, Flat-Panel Price Rise
-- Tim Culpan
-- 2010-07-28T09:29:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/au-optronics-profit-beats-estimates-on-tv-demand-flat-panel-price-rise.html

          
          
             AU Optronics Corp. , Taiwan’s second-
largest maker of liquid-crystal displays, posted second-quarter
profit that beat analyst estimates after demand for more
expensive televisions pushed shipments and prices higher.  
 Net income was NT$11.2 billion ($350 million), compared
with a loss of NT$6.6 billion a year earlier, the Hsinchu,
Taiwan-based company said in a statement today. The average of
16 analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg was for profit of
NT$8 billion.  
 AUO, which was overtaken by  Chimei Innolux Corp.  as
Taiwan’s biggest LCD maker in March, posted sales that beat
analyst estimates due to rising orders from television and
computer makers who are stocking up in anticipation of strong
demand in the second half of the year. An oversupply of panels
will slow price growth while AUO will cut factory usage as
demand cools and it adds more capacity, the company said.  
 “We attribute the revenue surprise to better-than-expected
shipments in the second quarter as downstream makers and brands
restocked inventory for the traditional hot season,”  Calvin Shao , who rates the stock “hold” at SinoPac Financial Holdings
Co. in Taipei, wrote in a July 26 report. “We think it’s
inevitable that panel makers’ profitability would suffer in the
second half.”  
 AUO posted a 56 percent increase in second-quarter  revenue 
to NT$128.6 billion. The average of 17 analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg was NT$123 billion.  
 The company’s shares added 0.7 percent to close at NT$30.80
in Taipei before the announcement. The stock has lost 21 percent
this year, compared with a 4.9 percent drop in the benchmark
 Taiex  index.  
 Production Cut  
 Stronger sales of more expensive televisions using light-
emitting diodes and “nearly full” capacity utilization helped
spur profit during the quarter, Chief Financial Officer  Andy Yang  said at an investors’ conference today in Taipei. AUO’s
factory usage will fall to the “low-nineties” percent this
quarter, he said.  
 AUO’s acquisition of a Singapore factory from Toshiba
Mobile Display Co. will boost its capacity to make panels for
notebook computers this quarter while it also plans to
strengthen alliances with other customers, it said in a
statement today.  
 “China inventory is admittedly higher than before, but we
believe that the October holiday will provide demand momentum,”
Yang said.  
 New Plants  
 The company also plans to spend NT$400 billion over 12
years to build two new LCD plants and two solar power factories
in Central Taiwan beginning next year, President and Chief
Executive Officer  Chen Lai-juh  said today. The LCD factories
will use so-called 11th-generation technology, he said.  
 Gross margin, a key guide of profitability that measures
the percentage of sales less the cost of goods sold, climbed to
15.8 percent during the period, from 12.8 percent in the prior
quarter, according to the statement.  
 LEDs, a power-saving light source used to illuminate
displays, accounted for 15 percent of television backlights in
the second quarter and will rise to 40 percent by the end of the
year, Executive Vice President of Global Business  Paul Peng  said
at the investors’ conference today.  
 Average prices of panels for televisions climbed 2.1
percent to $247 during the quarter, from $242 three months
earlier, while those for computer and notebook monitors were
unchanged at $68, AUO said in the statement today.  
 Prices of TV panels will climb “slightly” this quarter
while those for computer monitors will register a small decline,
AUO said today. Shipments of TV panels will rise about 10
percent this quarter from the prior quarter and monitor panels
will be flat, it said today.  
 “The end market looks good but there’s some inventory in
the pipeline that needs to be absorbed,” Peng said.  
 AUO today reiterated its plan to spend NT$100 billion this
year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Culpan  in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        