-- Australian Consumer Price Growth Unexpectedly Slows on Food, Recreation
-- Jacob Greber
-- 2010-07-28T02:37:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/australia-consumer-price-growth-unexpectedly-slows-to-0-6-currency-drops.html

          
          
             Australian  consumer-price  growth
unexpectedly slowed in the second quarter, giving the central
bank scope to extend a pause in interest-rate increases.  
 The consumer price index rose 0.6 percent from the first
quarter, less than the median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey for a 1 percent advance, a  Bureau of Statistics  report
showed in Sydney. Prices gained 3.1 percent from a year earlier.
Recreation, food and communications costs fell, the data showed.  
 The Australian dollar slid the most in a week as traders
abandoned forecasts that Governor  Glenn Stevens  will next week
add to what’s been the most aggressive round of rate increases
in the  Group of 20 . With Chinese demand for natural resources
stoking an Australian mining boom that’s pulled down
unemployment, price pressures may reemerge later in the year.  
 “There will be no interest-rate hike next week,” said
 Rory Robertson , an economist at Macquarie Group Ltd. in Sydney.
“The Reserve Bank of Australia will remain on hold for at least
the next three months and probably into 2011.”  
 Australia’s dollar dropped 0.8 percent to 89.35 U.S. cents
as of 12:04 p.m. in Sydney, paring its advance over the past two
months to about 6 percent. The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 stock index
was down 0.2 percent at 4,490.2.  
 Fun Gets Cheaper  
 Today’s report showed that recreation costs fell 1.8
percent in the second quarter, the biggest drop since 1989, and
food declined 0.3 percent. Communications costs, such as for
phones and internet-access bills, slid 0.1 percent. By contrast,
alcohol and tobacco jumped 5.9 percent.  
 Speculation increased last week that Governor Stevens will
resume raising rates as early as Aug. 3, potentially hurting
Labor Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s bid to win the federal
election on Aug. 21.  
 Gillard, who ousted former leader  Kevin Rudd  last month, is
relying on holding seats in areas of western Sydney and
Queensland that have large numbers of households with mortgages.  
 Stevens kept borrowing costs unchanged this month and in
June, after boosting the benchmark lending rate by 150 basis
points between early October and May from a half-century low of
3 percent, adding about A$3,600 ($3,200) a year to loan
repayments on an average A$300,000 mortgage.  
 Round the Region  
 Concern that rebounding economic growth will stoke
inflation has prompted policy makers across the Asia-Pacific
region to boost rates. India’s central bank increased a key
interest rate yesterday more than economists forecast, after
Malaysia raised rates three times this year, while Korea and
Thailand increased them once. New Zealand is forecast by all 14
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News to boost borrowing costs
tomorrow for the second time this year.  
 Governor Stevens’ interest-rate moves have also helped
stoke an 8 percent gain in the nation’s currency against the U.S.
dollar in the past 12 months, the second-best performer among
the 16 most actively traded currencies.  
 Traders are betting there’s no chance of a quarter-
percentage-point increase in the benchmark rate to 4.75 percent
next week, according to Bloomberg calculations based on
interbank futures on the Sydney Futures Exchange at 11:49 a.m.
Prior to today’s report, there was a 28 percent chance of an
increase.  
 “The important question for the board at its next meeting
would be whether the new information materially changed the
medium-term outlook for inflation,” the bank said in  minutes  of
its July 6 meeting released in Sydney last week.  
 Core Inflation  
 Core inflation, as measured by the central bank’s so-called
trimmed mean gauge, rose 2.7 percent in the second quarter from
a year earlier, after gaining 3 percent in the first quarter.
Analysts predicted a 3 percent rate. Stevens and his board aim
to keep inflation between 2 percent and 3 percent on average.  
 “I’m not quite ready yet to accept that Australia can grow
this well and be this fully employed and not have inflationary
pressures,” said  Annette Beacher , an economist at TD Securities
Ltd. in Singapore. “The RBA’s got time to sit for a few months
yet.”  
 A report published since the bank’s July meeting showed
strengthening Chinese demand for raw materials helped stoke a
mining boom that has pushed the unemployment rate down to 5.1
percent, below Japan’s level and almost half that of the U.S.  
 “Inflationary risks are on the upside, with the labor
market reaching full capacity over the next year and the strong
incomes boost from the terms of trade expected to see demand
increasingly stretch the economy’s supply capacity,”
Australia’s Treasury department said this week.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Jacob Greber  in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Australian Consumer-Price Growth Unexpectedly Slows  
                       
                         
                           Ian Waldie/Bloomberg 
                         
                         The consumer price index rose 0.6 percent from the first quarter, less than the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey for a 1 percent advance, a Bureau of Statistics report showed in Sydney. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The consumer price index rose 0.6 percent from the first quarter, less than the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey for a 1 percent advance, a Bureau of Statistics report showed in Sydney. Photographer: Ian Waldie/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
