-- Australia Ready `in All Aspects' to Stage World Cup, FIFA Inspectors Say
-- Tariq Panja
-- 2010-07-28T11:29:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/australia-ready-in-all-aspects-to-stage-world-cup-fifa-inspectors-say.html

          
          
             Australia is fully capable of
hosting the World Cup, according to a team of inspectors sent to
the country by soccer’s governing body FIFA.  
 The six-member delegation analyzed Australia’s bid to host
sports’ most-watched event in 2022 in a three-day trip that
included meetings with new Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  and
visits to the potential host cities.  
 “After checking the bid book presentation on site, we must
conclude that this country seems to be prepared in all the
aspects to organize the World Cup in 2022,” Head of Delegation
Harold Mayne-Nicholls said in a statement.  
 His comments were tempered by remarks from  Mohamed Bin Hammam , the head of the Asian  Football Confederation , that he’ll
give his vote to his native Qatar. Australia comes under the
Asian confederation.  
 “I have one vote ... and frankly speaking, I will vote for
Qatar,” Bin Hammam said at a football forum in Singapore today.
He said he would vote for another Asian country if Qatar is not
in the running.  
 Australia, Japan, South Korea and Qatar are bidding to
bring the World Cup back to Asia for the first time since 2002.
They face competition from the U.S., which hosted the event in
1994. Australia pulled out of the race for 2018 last month,
saying FIFA preferred European hosts for that tournament.  
 The inspectors are touring the world visiting bidders for
the 2018 and 2022 events. Prior to arriving in Australia they
inspected sites in South Korea and Japan.  
 Decision in December  
 The next stop is on Aug. 9, when the team arrives in the
Netherlands and Belgium. They are joint bidders, along with
England, the U.S., Russia and Spain/Portugal for the 2018 World
Cup. While those countries are also bidding on 2022, it’s
expected the 2018 edition will be held in Europe, and the 2022
event in Asia or the U.S.  
 FIFA’s 24-member executive will decide on where both
tournaments are staged on Dec. 2. Record five-time champion
Brazil hosts the 2014 World Cup.  
 Australia’s government is contributing A$45.6 million
($40.8 million) toward the World Cup bid, which proposes playing
matches in 10 cities. New stadiums will be built in Perth,
Canberra and western Sydney and nine others upgraded, providing
an A$2.8 billion infrastructure legacy.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        