-- Banco do Brasil Overtakes Itau in `Aggressive' Bond Sale Underwriting Push
-- Andre Soliani Costa
-- 2010-07-28T16:33:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/banco-do-brasil-overtakes-itau-in-aggressive-bond-sale-underwriting-push.html

          
          
             State-run Banco do Brasil SA is
overtaking traditional Brazilian bond underwriting leaders  Banco
Bradesco SA  and  Itau Unibanco Holding SA  after acquiring four
rivals and boosting lending to a record.  
 Banco do Brasil, based in Brasilia, arranged 5.5 billion
reais ($3.1 billion) of  local corporate debt sales  in the first
six months of 2010, surpassing Itau and Bradesco, the top two
managers last year, according to the Brazilian Association of
Financial and Capital Market Institutions, which counts bonds,
commercial paper and securitized assets. Banco do Brasil ranks
second this year, trailing Banco BTG Pactual SA, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg that exclude some commercial paper
and securitized assets.  
 Lending from Banco do Brasil increased  36 percent  in the
first quarter to 327.4 billion reais, making the bank the
biggest in Latin America by assets, after a 35 percent surge in
2009. The lender is building on market share gained during the
global financial crisis as it played an “anti-cyclical role”
to shore up the economy as private banks pulled back, said  Peter Shaw , a managing director at Fitch Ratings.  
 “They’ve been more aggressive across the board,” Shaw
said in a telephone interview. “They’ve made no bones about
wanting to not only defend the market share gains but to, where
it makes sense, where they can, build them.”  
 Banco do Brasil, which was founded in the 19th century,
climbed the underwriting rankings as local corporate debt sales
jumped 66 percent from the year-earlier period, according to
Anbima, as the Sao Paulo-based capital markets association is
known.  
 ‘More Aggressive’  
  Bradesco , Brazil’s second-biggest bank by market value,
managed 4.48 billion reais of sales in the first half, dropping
one spot from the year-ago period to second place. Itau, the
country’s largest bank by value, underwrote 4.39 billion reais
of debt, leaving it in third place, Anbima data show.  
 Alexandre Aoude , the executive director for capital markets
at Itau, said Banco do Brasil’s purchase last year of a  50
percent stake  in Sao Paulo-based Banco Votorantim SA helped the
government-run bank overtake it.  
 The purchase “brought over a lot of debt origination,
which helped a lot,” Aoude said in a telephone interview from
Sao Paulo. “Banco do Brasil is doing a great job. They’re a
tough competitor to beat.”  
 Aoude pledged to be “more aggressive” to regain the No. 1
spot that Itau had locked up by the end of last year.  
 “We have the tools to be on top,” he said.  
 International Sales  
 Omar Barreto, the head press officer for Banco do Brasil in
Brasilia, declined to comment on the underwriting rankings. An
official at Osasco-based Bradesco declined to comment.  
 Itau is the top-ranked Brazilian bank in managing the
country’s international bond sales. It’s in third place overall
this year, trailing only London-based HSBC Holdings Plc and
Madrid-based Banco Santander SA, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Banco do Brasil, which is more than 60 percent owned
by the government, climbed to seventh from 11th in 2009.
Bradesco ranks eighth.  
 Brazil sold $750 million of bonds due in 2021 in
international markets yesterday after its benchmark overseas
borrowing costs fell to a  record low . The government issued the
bonds to yield 4.55 percent, down from 5 percent in an initial
offering in April, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
 Deutsche Bank AG  and  Bank of America Corp.  arranged the sale.  
 Default Swaps  
 The extra  yield  investors demand to hold Brazilian
government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries dropped four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 198 at 11:15 a.m. in
New York, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ index. The
country’s average dollar bond yield rose two basis points
yesterday to 5.34 percent after falling to 5.32 percent on July
26, the lowest on record, according to JPMorgan.  
 The cost of protecting Brazilian debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps rose one basis point to
117 yesterday, according to data compiled by CMA DataVision.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  
 Yields on Brazil’s interest-rate futures contract due in
January fell five basis points to 10.84 percent yesterday and
were unchanged today. The real gained 0.2 percent to 1.7634 per
dollar at 12:29 p.m. in New York today.  
 Sabesp, Cemig  
 Two transactions helped cinch Banco do Brasil’s rise in the
rankings. In April, it helped manage a 1.2 billion real offering
from  Cia. De Saneamento Basico do Estado de Sao Paulo , known as
Sabesp, Brazil’s biggest water utility. A month earlier, it
helped arrange a 2.7 billion real issue by Cia. Energetica de
Minas Gerais, Brazil’s second largest electricity generator and
distributor.  
 “To see them rising up the underwriting tables reflects
the aggressiveness they’ve shown in most of their other
businesses also,” Shaw said.  
 The bank’s loan growth, part of President  Luiz Inacio Lula 
da Silva’s plan to help Brazil weather the global recession,
helped it win investment banking business, said  Jansen Moura , a
corporate bond analyst with BCP Securities in Rio de Janeiro.  
 Banco do Brasil’s underwriting tripled in the first half
from 1.8 billion reais in the same period last year, according
to Anbima. Itau’s climbed 11 percent and Bradesco’s fell seven
percent.  
 “It’s a race between three cars,” Itau’s Aoude said.
“There will be changes in the leader.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gabrielle Coppola  in New York at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net .
 Andre Soliani  in Brasilia at  at
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A man walks out of a Banco do Brasil SA bank branch in Brasilia. Photographer: Adriano Machado/Bloomberg News  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
