-- Bankrupt Station Casinos Says Creditors Have Ended Reorganization Fight
-- Steven Church
-- 2010-07-29T01:00:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/bankrupt-station-casinos-says-creditors-have-ended-reorganization-fight.html

          
          
             Station Casinos Inc. , the biggest
U.S. gambling company in bankruptcy, settled its dispute with
unsecured creditors, opening the way for Chairman  Frank Fertitta 
and his brother to try to retain control of the company.  
 The settlement gives equity warrants to bondholders and
other unsecured creditors who had opposed letting Fertitta and
his brother, Vice Chairman,  Lorenzo Fertitta , keep an ownership
stake. Certain bondholders agreed to invest as much as $100
million for a 15 percent of the new company coming out of the
bankruptcy, said Marc Falcone, Chief Financial Officer of
Fertitta Gaming LLC.  
 “We are extremely pleased to have reached an agreement with
the unsecured creditors’ committee,” Falcone said in a statement
today after Station filed its documents in U.S. Bankruptcy Court
in Reno, Nevada.  
 The unsecured creditors, owed $2.8 billion, had opposed
the Las Vegas-based company’s bankruptcy exit plan. Under the
earlier proposal, Station would be broken into two parts, both
of which would be taken over and reassembled by a partnership
led by the Fertittas.  
 Today’s settlement, which must still win the judge’s
approval, will give the unsecured creditors warrants to purchase
equity in the new company that will control Stations Casinos.  
 That company will also be owned by the Fertittas and
Stations lenders.  Tom Barrack’s  Colony Capital LLC has an option
to purchase part of the company.  
 Fertittas’ Investment  
 Station’s reorganization requires the Fertittas to invest
$85 million to purchase as much as a 50 percent stake in a
holding company that will own the four most valuable casinos:
Red Rock, Palace Station, Boulder Station and Sunset Station.
Together those casinos bring more than half of Station’s
revenue. Company lenders will own a stake in the holding company
and also be owed $1.6 billion under a new credit facility,
according to court documents.  
 Most of the remaining 14 Station-affiliated casinos would
be sold at an auction next month in which a Fertitta partnership
would act as the lead bidder with an offer worth $772 million.  
 Complete financial details of the settlement between
unsecured creditors and Station had not yet been filed with the
court early Wednesday evening.  
 The case is In re Station Casinos Inc., 09-52477, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Nevada (Reno).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Church  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        