-- European Banks Rush to Sell Debt After Stress Tests Buoy Investor Demand
-- Sonja Cheung
-- 2010-07-28T13:42:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/banks-in-europe-rush-to-sell-debt-after-stress-tests-buoy-investor-demand.html

          
          
             Credit Suisse Group AG  and Spain’s
Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA are tapping demand for
financial debt after the door for new issuance in Europe was
opened by the results of the stress tests.  
 Switzerland’s second-largest bank is selling so-called Tier
1 bonds in dollars, which banks issue as regulatory capital, or
a cushion against losses.  BBVA  issued the first public sale of
senior unsecured bonds from a Spanish bank since April,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Lenders are rushing to sell bonds after results from stress
tests eased investor concern that banks would suffer losses on
holdings of sovereign debt and as regulators softened proposed
capital rules. The extra yield investors demand to hold European
financial notes over government debt fell 9 basis points to 224
since the results were released July 23, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch data show.  
 “Financials were waiting on the sidelines until after the
stress test results,” said  John Raymond , an analyst at
independent research firm CreditSights Inc. in London.
“Investors feared there could’ve been something nasty, but with
a general positive outcome they’re now flocking to the market.”  
 Test results showed 84 of 91 institutions passing and
provided greater-than-expected transparency about lenders’
holdings of sovereign debt. European banks were shown only to
need 3.5 billion euros ($4.5 billion) of new capital, about a
tenth of the lowest analyst estimate.  
 Basel Proposals  
 The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, which sets
capital standards for banks worldwide, announced on July 26
softer capital rules proposed for lenders. The regulator was
asked by Group of 20 leaders to draft rules in the aftermath of
the credit crisis that has seen bank losses and writedowns
exceed $1.7 trillion.  
 The  Markit iTraxx Financial Index  of credit-default swaps
linked to 25 European banks and insurers has plunged 87 basis
points to 113 since June 8, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.
The contracts are used to hedge against losses or speculate on
creditworthiness and a basis point equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  
 Credit Suisse  is offering investors a coupon of 7.875
percent to 8 percent to buy its perpetual dollar debt, down from
initial guidance in the mid-8 percent range, according to two
people with knowledge of the sale, who declined to be named as
the deal isn’t completed. The notes are callable after five
years, the people said.  
 Premium Demand  
 BBVA’s 1.25 billion euros of 2015 bonds was priced to
yield 170 basis points more than the benchmark mid-swap rate,
two people with knowledge of the deal said. That compares with
the 85 basis-point spread on the Bilbao-based lender’s 1 billion
euros of five-year notes sold in April. The 3.5 percent
securities now trade at 157 basis points over swaps, Bloomberg
composite prices show.  
 “The market is opening up, but issuers still need to offer
a premium,” said Raymond.  
 Rabobank Nederland NV added 750 million euros to its 4.125
percent 2025 bonds after the world’s largest agricultural lender
sold 300 million pounds ($468 million) of bonds due 2060
yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Caroline Hyde  in London 
 chyde3@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA chairman Francisco Rodriguez. Photographer: Denis Doyle/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
