-- BAT Posts $2.4 Billion First-Half Profit, Missing Estimates; Sales Rise 8%
-- Tom Mulier
-- 2010-07-28T06:48:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/bat-posts-2-4-billion-first-half-profit-missing-estimates-sales-rise-8-.html

          
          
             British American Tobacco Plc ,
Europe’s largest cigarette maker, reported first-half profit
growth that missed analysts’ estimates as tax increases in
Turkey and Australia weighed on sales volume.  
 Net income  rose to 1.53 billion pounds ($2.4 billion), or
76.5 pence a share, from 1.45 billion pounds, or 72.8 pence, a
year earlier, London-based BAT said today in a statement. The
average  estimate  of six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was 1.7
billion pounds. Sales gained 7.6 percent to 7.3 billion pounds.  
 Turkey increased taxes on cigarettes by 29 percent at the
end of 2009 as part of a package of measures to reduce the
government budget deficit. Australia raised its tax by 25
percent on April 30 under a program to discourage smoking that
will also include an eventual ban on cigarette brand names.  
 First-half cigarette volume fell 3 percent, excluding the
effects of takeovers or disposals, on lower shipments to
Romania, Turkey, Japan and Pakistan, BAT said. That was an
improvement on the first quarter’s 4 percent decline. The
economic slowdown and rising unemployment have led smokers to
buy fewer premium cigarettes, the company said in April.  
 Total volume were in line with last year at 348 billion,
boosted by the takeover of Indonesian clove-cigarette maker PT
Bentoel Internasional Investama. BAT, which owns the Dunhill,
Lucky Strike, Pall Mall and Kent brands, has made more than $5
billion in  acquisitions  during the seven-year term of Chief
Executive Officer  Paul Adams , who retires in February.  
 ‘Good Shape’  
 “These results show that British American Tobacco’s
business is in very good shape, with continued pricing momentum,
increasing market share in key markets and improving organic
volume trends,” Chairman  Richard Burrows  said in the statement.
“While the comparisons with 2009 will become tougher in the
second half, shareholders should see another year of good growth
in both earnings and dividends.”  
 BAT said it plans to raise the first-half  dividend  by 19
percent to 33.2 pence a share.  
 BAT  shares have gained 12 percent this year, outperforming
Bristol, England-based  Imperial Tobacco Group Plc , which has
declined 7.1 percent, and  Philip Morris International Inc. , the
largest publicly traded tobacco company, which has increased 6.5
percent in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Mulier  in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        