-- BBVA Quarterly Profit Drops 18% on Higher Bad-Loan Provisions
-- Charles Penty
-- 2010-07-28T15:54:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/bbva-profit-drops-18-on-higher-bad-loan-provisions-as-default-ratio-drops.html

          
          
             Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA ,
Spain’s second-biggest bank, said quarterly profit declined 18
percent as lending revenue dipped and more money was set aside
to cover bad loans.  
 Net income  fell to 1.29 billion euros ($1.68 billion) in
the three months through June, from 1.56 billion euros a year
earlier, the Bilbao, Spain-based lender said today. That beat
the 1.23 billion-euro average estimate in a  Bloomberg survey  of
eight analysts as the bank’s bad-loan ratio fell for the first
time since 2006, helped by Mexico, Spain and the U.S.  
 BBVA relies on Spain, which is struggling to emerge from
the worst  recession  in 60 years, for almost half of its profit.
While the ailing home economy forced banks to recognize losses
linked to real estate and drove up lenders’ financing costs,
BBVA earnings are supported by renewed economic growth in
Mexico, its second-biggest market.  
 “‘It all looks very solid with non-performing loans down
quarter-on-quarter,” said  Arturo de Frias , an analyst at
Evolution Securities in London, who rates BBVA Buy. “They look
like good results.”  
 BBVA, led by Chairman  Francisco Gonzalez , last week passed
a  stress test  of European banks with its Tier 1 capital ratio, a
measure of the ability to absorb losses, dropping to 9.3 percent
in the most adverse scenario from 9.4 percent at the end of
2009.  
 Dividend Limit  
 While earnings trends are improving, it wouldn’t be
“prudent” for BBVA to consider removing a 30 percent limit on
the amount of profit  paid out  to shareholders, put in place last
year, until it’s clear markets are returning to normal,
President and Chief Operating Officer  Angel Cano  said at a news
conference in Madrid today.  
 BBVA shares fell 0.5 percent to 10.515 euros in Madrid
trading, taking this year’s decline to 17 percent and valuing
the lender at 39.4 billion euros. The 54-member Bloomberg Europe
Banks and Financial Services Index gained 2.2 percent over the
same period.  
 The bank said gross lending rose an annual 4 percent,
compared with a 0.8 percent decline in the first quarter, as
BBVA strengthened its funding base by raising 19 billion euros
in deposits.  
 “In the second quarter of the year, there’s a change of
trend in the drop of commercial activity begun with the start of
the crisis in 2007,” the bank said in a statement.  
 Bad Loans  
 Net interest income  fell 1 percent to 3.55 billion euros,
BBVA said. Costs for impairment of bad loans climbed 30 percent
to 1.34 billion euros as BBVA said defaults as a proportion of
total lending rose to 4.2 percent from 3.2 percent a year
earlier. The ratio fell from 4.3 percent in the previous
quarter.  
 BBVA allocated 250 million euros to its general loan-loss
provisions in the second quarter.  
 Net loans newly classified as in default rose to 962
million euros in the quarter from 874 million euros in the
previous three months as recoveries fell, the bank said. Still,
gross new defaults dropped 6.7 percent to 3.04 billion euros
from the previous quarter.  
 BBVA reclassified 1.8 billion euros of good loans as
doubtful in the fourth quarter as the bank anticipated future
losses. Cano said he had “no information” to suggest that
Spanish defaults hadn’t peaked.  
 Deposits Climb  
 Second-quarter profit from Spain and Portugal rose 2.6
percent to 599 million euros, BBVA said. Bad loans as a
proportion of total lending at the unit were 5 percent from 5.1
percent in March and 3.7 percent a year ago.  
 Deposits  at the business rose 7.9 percent from the first
quarter, the bank said. Investors wanted to see signs the bank
is building a stable funding base after a surge in BBVA’s
financing costs and a campaign by rival Banco Santander SA that
captured 30 billion euros of Spanish retail deposits, said
 Daragh Quinn , an analyst at Nomura International in Madrid.  
 “Some progress has been made on gathering deposits in
Spain although the overall group funding mix has not improved
considerably over the quarter,” said  Claire Kane , an analyst at
MF Global in Madrid, who rates the bank a “buy.”  
 Second-quarter profit from Mexico climbed 10 percent to 434
million euros from a year earlier, as the unit’s bad-loan ratio
fell to 3.8 percent from 4.1 percent, BBVA said. Earnings from
BBVA’s U.S. business based on its retail branch network in
southern “Sun Belt” states rose 13 percent to 86 million
euros.  
 “I’m still not convinced the worst is over in Spain,
especially the real estate market,” said  Peter Braendle , who
helps manage $57 billion at Swisscanto Asset Management in
Zurich. “Fortunately they have diversified into other countries
and that is going to help.”  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Charles Penty  in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA chairman Francisco Rodriguez. Photographer: Denis Doyle/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
