-- BG Group's Profit Declines 21% After U.S.-Bound LNG Cargoes Are Diverted
-- Eduard Gismatullin
-- 2010-07-28T06:04:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/bg-group-s-profit-declines-21-after-u-s-bound-lng-cargoes-are-diverted.html

          
          
             BG Group Plc , the U.K.’s third-
largest energy company, said profit fell 21 percent after higher
production in the U.S. reduced the need for shipments of
liquefied natural gas.  
 Net income  in the second quarter dropped to $602 million
from $761 million a year earlier, the Reading, England-based
company said today in a statement released by the Regulatory
News Service.  
 “For both upstream and LNG, we expect a sequential drop in
segment earnings due to the seasonality factor,”  Oswald Clint ,
an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said before the
release. BG possibly sent 50 percent less LNG to the U.S. and
“sold more into oil-linked regions where prices” were higher,
he said.  
 China, the world’s biggest energy user, boosted LNG
purchases in June by 58 percent from a year earlier on increased
demand from power plants. Nevertheless, LNG production capacity
increases forced countries, such as Qatar, to curtail supply
amid a global glut. The U.S. became the world’s largest natural
gas producer ahead of Russia last year after developing so-
called shale deposits.  
 “It’s not going to be the same BG you knew before”
because of lower natural gas prices, said  Christine Tiscareno ,
an analyst at Standard & Poor’s in London. “The company has
reached a more mature phase.”  
 BG, which is competing for the leadership of the world’s
LNG production market, expects “modest” growth in 2010,
according to a forecast earlier this year by Chief Financial
Officer  Ashley Almanza .  
 Expansion Focus  
 BG is focusing on projects in Brazil, the U.S. and
Australia and in May it agreed to join an exploration project in
Tanzania. The company in June won approval for an A$15 billion
($13.6 billion) LNG project in Australia from Queensland
government on which it plans to make the final investment
decision this year. The  Queensland Curtis LNG  venture may
initially produce about 8.5 million metric tons a year.  
 Last month, BG said it may join Exco Resources Inc.’s
acquisition of U.S. shale gas assets from Southwestern Energy
Co. The company agreed in May to expand in the Appalachian basin
a month after buying Common Resources LLC with Exco.  
 BG this month agreed to sell its interest in  Premier Power
Ltd.  to AES Corp. and in April divested its 50 percent stake in
 Seabank Power Ltd.  for about $320 million to Cheung Kong
Infrastructure Holdings Ltd.  
 Reading, England-based BG will host a  Webcast presentation 
at 12 p.m.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eduard Gismatullin  in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        