-- Billionaire Krishnan Offers to Buy Rest of Malaysia Satellite Owner Measat
-- Katrina Nicholas
-- 2010-07-28T12:49:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/billionaire-krishnan-offers-to-buy-rest-of-malaysia-satellite-owner-measat.html

          
          
             Malaysian billionaire  T. Ananda Krishnan  moved to acquire full control of  Measat Global Bhd.,  a
Malaysian satellite operator, according to a company statement
to the stock exchange in Kuala Lumpur today.  
 Krishnan, Malaysia’s second-richest man, offered 4.20
ringgit a share for the 40.4 percent of Measat he doesn’t
already own, according to the statement. That’s 10.5 percent
higher than the stock price of 3.80 ringgit yesterday, before
suspension of trading today. The offer values Kuala Lumpur-based
Measat at 1.64 billion ringgit ($513 million).  
 Krishnan currently owns 59.56 percent of Measat, or 232.2
million shares, according to the statement.  Telekom Malaysia Bhd .
owns 15.4 percent, or 60 million shares, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The buyout and subsequent delisting of Measat will help
Krishnan accelerate the company’s investments in markets such as
India and China without seeking shareholder approval. Krishnan
in March announced a 2.5 billion ringgit buyout bid with a group
of investors for Measat’s sister company,  Astro All Asia
Networks Plc . He also privatized mobile-phone company Maxis
Communications Bhd. in 2007, before listing its domestic
operations last year.  
 Measat jumped 8.9 percent to 3.80 ringgit on July 27, its
highest level since Feb. 26, 2004. The shares have surged 107
percent this year, compared with the 6.5 percent gain in the
Malaysian benchmark stock index.  
 Satellite Owner  
 Measat owns four satellites able to provide transmission
capacity for telecommunications and broadcasting services to
Asia, Middle East, Africa, Europe and Australia, according to
its website. Measat leases its transmission capacity to Astro
All Asia to run a pay-TV service in Malaysia and Brunei.  
 Krishnan is Malaysia’s richest person after  Robert Kuok ,
with wealth estimated at $8.1 billion, according to Forbes
magazine. The billionaire also owns stakes in gaming and power
group  Tanjong Plc , and has interests in real estate, marine
transport and oil and gas companies.  
 Shares of Tanjong were also suspended today pending an
announcement of a corporate proposal. The shares will be halted
until July 30, Tanjong said in a statement.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chan Tien Hin  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net ;
 Katrina Nicholas  in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        