-- Blackstone LBO Fund Wins $200 Million Commitment From Oregon State Pension
-- Jason Kelly
-- 2010-07-28T20:33:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/blackstone-lbo-fund-wins-200-million-commitment-from-oregon-state-pension.html

          
          
             Blackstone Group LP , the world’s
biggest private-equity firm, won a $200 million commitment for
its sixth buyout fund from the Oregon state pension system after
agreeing to fee concessions.  
 The commitment, the pension’s first to Blackstone, was
voted on today at a meeting of the Oregon Investment Council in
Tigard,  Oregon . Blackstone, based in New York, said last week it
probably will raise about $13.5 billion for the fund, called
Blackstone Capital Partners VI.  
 Blackstone President  Tony James  told the Oregon meeting
that his firm had agreed to a “special fee structure” for
Oregon, which will be offered to other investors. Neither he nor
state officials detailed the arrangement on the new fund, which
is about 40 percent smaller than Blackstone’s previous $21.7
billion Fund V from 2007. Oregon trustee Katherine Durant
pressed James about that fund’s performance.  
 “Why does Fund V look so bad?’ she asked during the
question and answer session.  
 James said that on a net basis including fees, Fund V was
down 2 percent, compared with an overall 7 percent drop in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index during the same period.  
 “It’s not been a market where you can create value, but we
haven’t lost any value,” James said, noting that the fund was
carried at cost excluding fees.  
 The council, including Durant, voted unanimously to approve
the investment. The pension system oversees about $65 billion
for the retirement accounts of state employees.  
 Blackstone was created in 1985 by  Stephen Schwarzman  and
Peter G. Peterson and went public in 2007. The firm said July 22
that second-quarter  profit , excluding some costs related to the
IPO, rose 13 percent, helped by gains in its real estate and
private-equity holdings.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hui-yong Yu  in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Kelly  in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        