-- Blagojevich Corruption Jury Begins Deliberating Verdict on Ex-Governor
-- Andrew M. Harris
-- 2010-07-28T19:22:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/blagojevich-corruption-jury-begins-deliberating-verdict-on-ex-governor.html

          
          
             Rod Blagojevich ’s federal corruption
trial is in the hands of jurors after a U.S. judge instructed
them on the law they must apply to the indicted former Illinois
governor and told them to decide the facts.  
 Blagojevich, 53, a Democrat, is accused of trying to profit
from his office. Prosecutors say he conspired with his brother
and co-defendant, Robert Blagojevich, trade official acts for
campaign cash. They face as long as 20 years in prison if
convicted on the most serious counts.  
 “If you find a defendant guilty, it will then be my job to
decide what punishment will be involved,” U.S. District Judge
 James Zagel  in Chicago told the 12-member jury today.  
 Twice-elected to the state’s top office, Rod Blagojevich
was arrested in December 2008 and later indicted for linking
official acts, including selecting President  Barack Obama ’s
Senate successor, to campaign contributions and personal favors.  
 He was removed from office for abuse of power in January
2009 by the Illinois Legislature.  
 “Now it’s a period where we have to wait, and express our
appreciation to the men and women who are sitting on the jury
who have taken time out of their busy schedules, out of their
lives to do their duty,” the former governor, holding hands
with his wife, Patti, told reporters in the courthouse lobby
after today’s proceedings. “They’re now the ones who’ll
decide.”  
 Recorded Conversations  
 The trial started with jury selection on June 3 and
included six weeks of testimony. Jurors heard recorded
conversations, obtained by the Federal Bureau of Investigation
through wiretaps, in which the governor, his brother and close
advisers discussed pending initiatives -- including the Senate
seat appointment -- and fundraising.  
 The former governor faces 24 counts; Robert Blagojevich,
54, who was chairman of his brother’s campaign finance committee
in 2008, faces four counts.  
 Robert Blagojevich today told reporters he is
“optimistic” he will be found innocent. Asked if he feared
being convicted if jurors convict his brother, the former U.S.
Army Lieutenant Colonel said, “I listened to the judge’s
instructions, so I’ve got confidence they’ll make the
distinction.”  
 ‘Strained’ Relationship  
 Robert said the relationship with his brother is
“strained.”  
 Zagel told jurors that they must separately weigh the proof
for each count against the former governor and his brother and
as against each man individually. He also told the panel that a
defendant could be convicted of aiding and abetting for trying
to help a criminal conspiracy to succeed.  
 Rod Blagojevich is charged with two counts of bribery and,
with his brother, bribery conspiracy.  
 “Solicitation of a campaign contribution, by itself, does
not constitute bribery,” Zagel said. The official must ask for
money or property directly or indirectly, believing it will be
given in exchange for an official act.  
 The jury’s verdict must be unanimous.  
 The jury is composed of six men and six women. Two of the
women and one of the men are black. Another man is Asian. The
rest are white. One is the daughter of a policeman, another the
son of a lawyer, according to answers they gave Zagel during
jury selection.  
 Two of the men said they are U.S. Navy veterans while two
other men said they served in the Marine Corps. One of the
former Marines told the court he was born in the  Manzanar
detention camp  in California established for Japanese-
Americans during World War II.  
 In the courthouse lobby, defense attorney Sam Adam Sr., who
was a part of the trial team, praised the performance of his
son, Blagojevich defense lawyer Sam Adam Jr., who was born 38
years ago today.  
 Asked what he wanted for his birthday, the younger Adam
replied, “A not guilty verdict would be very nice.”  
 The case is U.S. v. Blagojevich, 08-cr-00888, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew M Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        