-- Blinder, Zandi Say U.S. Bailouts Likely Averted a Depression
-- Ian Katz
-- 2010-07-28T18:31:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/blinder-zandi-say-u-s-bailouts-likely-averted-a-depression.html

          
          
             The U.S. response to the financial
crisis probably prevented a depression, slowed a decline in
gross domestic product and saved about 8.5 million jobs,
economists  Alan Blinder  and  Mark Zandi  said.  
 Policies including the government fiscal stimulus, bailouts
of financial companies, bank stress tests and the Federal
Reserve’s purchase of mortgage-backed securities to lower
interest rates “probably averted what could have been called
Great Depression 2.0,” Blinder and Zandi said in a report dated
yesterday. Without those measures, the U.S. would have
deflation, they said.  
 Lawmakers are debating the costs and benefits of measures
taken by the Bush and Obama administrations including the 2008
taxpayer bailouts of  Citigroup Inc.  and Bank of America Corp.
Obama officials say bailouts helped stabilize the economy while
Republicans, ahead of this year’s midterm elections, have
criticized the program as benefiting Wall Street bankers instead
of ordinary Americans.  
 “Eighteen months ago, the global financial system was on
the brink of collapse and the U.S. was suffering its worst
economic downturn since the 1930s,” Blinder and Zandi said in
their report. “The Great Recession gave way to recovery as
quickly as it did largely because of the unprecedented responses
by monetary and fiscal policymakers.”  
 Report’s Authors  
 Blinder, 64, a former Fed vice chairman, is a Princeton
University economics professor and vice chairman at  Promontory
Interfinancial Network LLC , a Washington-based banking
consultant. He was on former President  Bill Clinton ’s Council of
Economic Advisers. Zandi, 51, is chief economist at New York-
based Moody’s Analytics Inc.  
 If the Bush and Obama administrations hadn’t acted, GDP
would have fallen 7.4 percent in 2009 instead of 2.4 percent,
the economists said in the report, titled “How We Ended the
Great Recession.”  
 “By the time employment hits bottom, some 16.6 million
jobs are lost in this scenario -- about twice as many actually
were lost,” they wrote.  
 The government’s fiscal stimulus alone will boost 2010 GDP
by about 3.4 percent and add almost 2.7 million jobs to U.S.
payrolls, Blinder and Zandi said.  
 Bailout Fund  
 Congress authorized $700 billion for the Troubled Asset
Relief Program in October 2008 to prevent a collapse of the U.S.
financial system. The program has been criticized by lawmakers
from both parties, including Senator  Maria Cantwell , a Democrat
from Washington state, and Representative  Jeb Hensarling , a
Texas Republican, for helping big banks more than average
citizens.  
 The TARP “has been a substantial success, helping to
restore stability to the financial system and to end the
freefall in housing and auto markets,” Blinder and Zandi wrote.
The cost to taxpayers will be “a small fraction” of the amount
initially granted by Congress, probably less than $100 billion,
with the bank-bailout portion of TARP “probably turning a
profit,” they said.  
 Government equity investments in large banks was “a
necessary condition for ending the panic and the recession,”
Zandi said in an interview today. The Fed’s stress tests on 19
U.S. banks last year “put a nail in the coffin of the financial
panic.”  
 “It’s fair to say this has been very costly,” Zandi said.
“There’s no free lunch. We now have a very large fiscal problem
we’re going to have to grapple with.”  
 $250,000 Threshold  
 To keep the recovery going, President  Barack Obama  should
extend former President  George W. Bush ’s tax cuts for families
making as much as $250,000 a year while phasing in increases for
those earning more, Zandi said.  
 “The recovery is too fragile to digest the higher tax
rates at this time,” Zandi said.  
 Tax cuts enacted in 2001 and 2003 under Bush are scheduled
to expire at the end of this year, and an election-year fight
looms over whether to continue them. Obama and congressional
Democrats want to extend the tax cuts for households earning as
much as $250,000 and allow those for wealthier taxpayers to
expire.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ian Katz  in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Alan Blinder, professor of economics at Princeton University. Photographer: JB Reed/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Mark Zandi, chief economist of Moody's. Photographer: Chris Keane/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
