-- Boeing Says Profit Fell on Delivery Decline, Upholds Forecast
-- Susanna Ray
-- 2010-07-28T20:35:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/boeing-posts-21-drop-in-second-quarter-profit-after-delivering-fewer-jets.html

          
          
             Boeing Co.  said second-quarter
earnings declined 21 percent on fewer plane deliveries, and
reduced its projection for profitability at its defense unit on
slower U.S. military spending.  
 Net income  fell to $787 million, or $1.06 a share, the
world’s biggest aerospace company said in a statement today.
Boeing maintained its forecast for earnings for this year.  
 Airlines are placing more orders as they recover from the
recession more quickly than expected, while militaries are under
budget pressure, said Chief Executive Officer  Jim McNerney . The
Chicago-based company trimmed its forecast for the operating
margin of its defense unit, which accounts for more than half of
revenue, by half a percentage point to 9.5 percent in 2010.  
 “You’re seeing segments of the defense business show some
serious weakness,” said  Kenneth Herbert , an analyst with
Wedbush Securities in San Francisco. “For many years, the
defense business was a nice floor on valuations, but if that’s
going to weaken further relative to expectations, that’s a
concern for investors.”  
 Boeing will make up airliner shipments in the second half
of the year to hand over as many as 465 jets and still may
double full-year profit to as much as $3.80 a share, Chief
Financial Officer  James Bell  said on a conference call.  
 The company raised its annual forecast for the commercial
unit’s margin by 1 percentage point to as much as 8.5 percent.  
 Shares Drop  
 Boeing, second to  Airbus SAS  in commercial aircraft and to
Lockheed Martin Corp. in defense contracting, fell $1.30, or 1.9
percent, to $67.32 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading. The shares has risen 24 percent this year.  
 Sales fell 9.2 percent to $15.6 billion in the second
quarter, missing analysts’ $16.2 billion average estimate
compiled by Bloomberg. Earnings beat the $1.01-a-share  average
estimate  of 20 analysts.  
 The defense segment’s operating margin decreased 1.2
percentage points to 8.9 percent as sales fell in every area
except military aircraft. That outpaced the decline in the
commercial-jet division, where operating margin fell 0.5
percentage point to 9.2 percent.  
 The total backlog declined 1 percent from the end of March
to $312 billion, as the defense unit’s deliveries exceeded new
orders.  
 777 Output  
 Boeing, which gets the bulk of its payments upon delivery,
shipped 8.8 percent fewer planes in the period amid a production
gap between a new and old jumbo-jet model and delays due to
defective seats from a supplier. The company also began cutting
output of the 777, a plan put in place last year when orders
collapsed during the recession.  
 Commercial production is set to accelerate starting next
year because airlines are clamoring for new jets amid a pick-up
in air-travel demand that Boeing said last week had spurred it
to lift the internal orders forecast twice this year. The
company also plans to begin delivering the latest 747 model and
the new 787 Dreamliner by the beginning of 2011.  
 “We were expecting lighter revenue given the lower
commercial-aircraft deliveries,” said  Peter Arment , a Gleacher
& Co. analyst in Greenwich, Connecticut, who recommends buying
the stock. “The production ramp continues unabated and that
ultimately is going to drive the earnings momentum at Boeing.”  
 Delivery Targets  
 Boeing had planned to hand over the first 787 to Japan’s
All Nippon Airways by December, which would have been more than
2 1/2 years late, and to ship the first 747-8 to Cargolux
Airlines International SA by then as well, more than a year
behind schedule. McNerney repeated comments from earlier this
month that both those goals may now slip into January, adding
that the 747-8 bears a higher risk for a delay.  
 “On the 747-8, there are a couple of workmanship issues
and a design issue or two that we’re working through,” McNerney
said. The 787’s possible hindrances have to do with
documentation for certification from the Federal Aviation
Administration and longer down-time between tests while
engineers change telemetry instrumentation, he said.  
 In 2011, sales will exceed this year’s projection of as
much as $66 billion and operating cash flow will be more than $5
billion, recovering from zero this year, Boeing reiterated.  
 This year’s surge in orders -- already higher than all of
last year -- will be “modestly less” than the record three-
year run-up in purchases through 2007, McNerney said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susanna Ray  in Frankfurt via 
 sray7@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Net income in the three months through June fell  
                       
                         
                           Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Boeing Co chief executive officer Jim McNerney. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Boeing Co chief executive officer Jim McNerney. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 28 (Bloomberg) -- Alex Hamilton, an analyst at CK Cooper & Co., talks about Boeing Co.'s second-quarter profit reported today and business outlook.
     The world’s second-biggest commercial-jet builder posted a 21 percent drop in profit after delivering fewer planes. Net income fell to $787 million, or $1.06 a share, from $998 million, or $1.41, a year earlier. Hamilton speaks with Carol Massar on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop.”  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Airlines are placing more orders as they recover from the recession more quickly than expected, while militaries are under budget pressure, said Boeing CEO Jim McNerney.  Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
