-- BP Spill Threat to Texas Economy Looms Over $300 Million Houston Port Bond
-- Justin Doom
-- 2010-07-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/bp-spill-threat-to-texas-economy-looms-over-300-million-houston-port-bond.html

          
          
             The Port of Houston Authority, whose
Gulf Coast facilities are the second-busiest in the U.S. by
total tonnage, is selling $300 million in debt as  BP Plc ’s oil
spill threatens the region’s economy.  
 The worst spill in U.S. history, which closed fishing
grounds and beaches, and cut offshore drilling by half, may cost
communities on the Gulf of Mexico $22.7 billion in revenue over
the next three years, the U.S. Travel Association estimated
yesterday. Oil leaked for three months after the April 20
explosion on the Deepwater Horizon rig that killed 11.  
 The port authority’s bonds, which carry top ratings from
Moody’s Investors Service and Standard & Poor’s, are backed
“without legal limitation as to rate or amount” by taxes from
Harris County, the third most-populous in the U.S., according to
a Moody’s report. Those ratings may be threatened if long-term
effects from the spill reduce revenue, Moody’s analyst Michelle
Smithen said in a phone interview from Dallas.  
 “That kind of goes for not just the port, but for all of
the credits that have volatility or exposure to oil- and gas-
related industries and petrochemicals, which we find a lot in
the Houston area,” Smithen said.  
 Today’s offering, which will fund improvements and
refinance debt, is the port authority’s largest in two years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A January sale offered
10-year bonds yielding 3.51 percent, 43 basis points above  top-
rated debt  at the time, according to data from Municipal Market
Advisors, an independent research firm in Concord,
Massachusetts. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 Harris County  
 Harris County, with identical ratings, sold comparable
general obligations in February yielding 3.13 percent, or 9
basis points above the MMA index.  
 Yields on top-rated, tax-exempt general obligations that
mature in 10 years averaged  2.86 percent  yesterday for a fifth
consecutive day, the lowest since at least January 2001,
according to MMA data. The yields haven’t increased since June
15.  
 The 50-mile (80-kilometer)  Houston Ship Channel  connects
the port to the Gulf. Houston ranks second to the Port of South
Louisiana on the Mississippi River, the largest-tonnage port
district in the Western Hemisphere.  
 The port bonds are likely to sell at yields close to the
AAA index, said  Regina Shafer , who helps manage $5.2 billion in
municipal assets as assistant vice president of fixed income at
USAA Investment Management Co. in San Antonio.  
 “It’s a very good credit,” Shafer said. “July normally
has a lot of reinvestment money, which helps demand even more,
and we’re seeing a lot of strong demand.”  
 Following are descriptions of pending sales of municipal
debt in the U.S.:  
 COLUMBUS, OHIO , the capital of the seventh most-populous
U.S. state, plans to borrow about $430 million using taxable
Build America Bonds and tax-exempt securities today to refund
debt and finance capital-improvement projects. The issue carries
top ratings from Moody’s and Fitch, and will be marketed by a
group led by Stifel Nicolaus & Co. (Updated July 28)  
 WASHINGTON STATE, home of Seattle and  Microsoft Corp. ,
plans to take interest-cost bids on about $839 million in
taxable and tax-exempt bonds today. Proceeds will refinance
existing debt and fund the state’s escrow and project accounts.
The bonds are rated Aa1 by Moody’s and AA+ by S&P and Fitch, all
second-highest. (Updated July 28)  
 MIAMI-DADE COUNTY EXPRESSWAY AUTHORITY, which operates the
five major highways in Florida, will sell $350 million in tax-
exempt debt as soon as next week to add reserves to the agency’s
construction and debt-service funds. The bonds, backed by toll
revenue, are rated A3 by Moody’s and A- by Fitch, the fourth-
lowest investment grades, and A by S&P, one level higher.
Underwriters led by Citigroup will market the securities. (Added
July 26)  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net ;
 Justin Doom  in New York at 
 jdoom@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Vessels gather at the BP Plc Macondo well site in the Gulf of Mexico. Photographer: Derick E. Hingle/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 28 (Bloomberg) -- Brian Youngberg, an analyst at Edward Jones in St. Louis, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the outlook for BP Plc.
     BP appointed U.S.-born Robert Dudley as chief executive officer and pledged to accelerate asset sales to as much as $30 billion after the Gulf of Mexico oil spill led to a record loss. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
