-- BP, Vivendi Among Companies That May Save Billions From Ruling
-- Greg Stohr
-- 2010-07-28T04:01:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/bp-vivendi-among-companies-that-may-save-billions-after-high-court-ruling.html

          
          
             A  U.S. Supreme Court  ruling last
month may translate into billions of dollars in litigation
savings for foreign-based companies including  Vivendi SA ,
 Infineon Technologies AG ,  Societe Generale  and  BP Plc .  
 The June 24 decision, overshadowed by rulings the same day
in the corporate corruption cases of  Jeffrey Skilling  and  Conrad Black , said U.S. securities laws don’t apply overseas. The
justices unanimously threw out a fraud lawsuit by three
Australian shareholders against Melbourne-based  National
Australia Bank Ltd.   
 Companies are already benefiting. Lawyers suing Societe
Generale and Infineon agreed to scale back their lawsuits. A
federal judge in New York yesterday trimmed a suit against
 Credit Suisse Group AG . And a judge this week heard Vivendi’s
bid to throw out most of a jury verdict in an investor suit that
seeks $9 billion.  
 “It’s hard to imagine a case that will have as much direct
and immediate impact on large existing litigations,” said
 George Conway , a lawyer at Wachtell Lipton Rosen & Katz who
represented National Australia at the high court. “It wipes out
an entire species of class-action litigation.”  
 The ruling, Morrison v. National Australia Bank, said
federal securities laws don’t let non-Americans sue in U.S.
courts over shares of a foreign company that are listed only on
an overseas exchange.  
 Nuanced Approach  
 The Securities and Exchange Commission and Justice
Department had urged a more nuanced approach that would have
permitted some suits. The government  proposed  allowing lawsuits
when the alleged fraud has a significant tie to the U.S. and
when the fraud directly caused the shareholder’s losses.  
 Writing for the court, Justice  Antonin Scalia  said that
reasoning was inconsistent with the text of the 1934 Securities
Exchange Act, given that courts start from the presumption that
laws don’t apply overseas.  
 “The focus of the Exchange Act is not upon the place where
the deception originated but upon purchases and sales of
securities in the United States,” Scalia wrote.  
 The dispute centered on a class of cases known colloquially
as foreign-cubed or F-cubed suits because they involve foreign
corporations, shareholders and exchanges.  
 Vivendi may prove to be one of the biggest winners. A jury
in January found that the Paris-based company misled investors
57 times from 2000 to 2002.  
 American Depositary Receipts  
 Vivendi said in a court filing this month that the Morrison
ruling will eliminate the claims of anyone who bought shares on
a foreign exchange, including Americans. That would leave only
investors who bought American depositary receipts -- bank-issued
securities that trade in the U.S. and are tied to the value of
ordinary shares. ADRs represented from 7.9 percent to 10.1
percent of the company’s securities at the time, Vivendi said.  
 The Morrison decision “will likely reduce potential
damages by at least 80 percent and may reduce them significantly
more,” Vivendi argued.  
 The lawyers suing Vivendi say the Morrison decision doesn’t
bar lawsuits by American buyers of stock on foreign exchanges --
a class of investors that in Vivendi’s case held about a quarter
of the company’s shares. The lawyers say language in Scalia’s
opinion suggests the justices were considering only the
viability of claims by foreign plaintiffs.  
 A judge considering a suit against Credit Suisse yesterday
rejected that interpretation, barring claims by American
purchasers of the Zurich-based company on the Swiss stock
exchange.  
 No Spandex  
 “This court is not convinced that the Supreme Court
designed Morrison to be squeezed, as in spandex, only into the
factual straitjacket of its holding,” U.S. District Judge
 Victor Marrero  wrote.  
 A judge in Los Angeles previously reached the same
conclusion on a temporary basis in a case involving  Toyota Motor
Corp.   
 Similar reasoning would limit investor suits against
London-based BP over the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, though one of
the lawyers pressing the suits,  Stanley Chesley  of Waite
Schneider Bayless & Chesley, said BP is distinguishable from
National Australia because of the oil company’s deep U.S. ties.  
 “They clearly are here and should be under the laws of the
United States of America,” Chesley said.  
 Daren Beaudo , a BP spokesman, said the company wouldn’t
comment on the issue. BP said yesterday that the SEC is looking
into matters related to the spill.  
 The Morrison ruling also may affect F-cubed cases against
 Alstom SA  and  European Aeronautic Defense & Space Co.   
 Private Transactions  
 The impact of the high court ruling on private
transactions, including derivatives, may prove complicated,
according to Richard Painter, a securities law professor at the
University of Minnesota Law School in Minneapolis.  
 “You could have one party in Paris, one party in New York
and the derivative security was designed by Goldman Sachs in
London,” Painter said. “Where did the transaction take
place?”  
 In one pending case involving derivatives, hedge funds
suing  Porsche SE  redrafted their complaint in response to the
Morrison decision, focusing on swap agreements that allegedly
took place in the U.S. The funds say Porsche secretly cornered
the market in  Volkswagen AG  shares, costing short-sellers more
than $1 billion.  
 The Morrison decision might also restrict the SEC’s
authority, depending how courts interpret a provision in the new
Wall Street regulation law. The provision aims to partially
overturn Morrison, letting the SEC police fraud affecting
foreign investors if it stems from domestic wrongdoing.  
 Improperly Drafted  
 Conway, the National Australia Bank lawyer, said the new
law was improperly drafted, targeting the power of the courts to
hear cases rather than the scope of the securities laws. He said
in a  memo  that Congress may have to amend the law.  
 Conway’s adversary in the Supreme Court case,  Thomas Dubbs 
of Labaton Sucharow, said that the Morrison ruling won’t
necessarily mean rejection of all F-cubed claims under federal
law and that some investors will be able to sue under state or
foreign law.  
 “It is not clear if the Morrison decision is as draconian
a rule as some defendants might think,” Dubbs said.  
 Defense lawyers read the decision as a sweeping one that
will thwart efforts by plaintiffs’ lawyers to sue foreign
corporations.  
 “There may still be cases around the margins, one-off type
cases involving face-to-face transactions or other odd
circumstances,” said  Jordan  Eth, a lawyer at Morrison &
Foerster who represents Infineon. “But the bread-and-butter, F-
cubed cottage industry that developed is no longer.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.S. Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia. Photographer: Dennis Brack/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 28 (Bloomberg) -- Brian Youngberg, an analyst at Edward Jones in St. Louis, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the outlook for BP Plc.
     BP appointed U.S.-born Robert Dudley as chief executive officer and pledged to accelerate asset sales to as much as $30 billion after the Gulf of Mexico oil spill led to a record loss. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
