-- JBS Weighs Merging U.S. Unit into Pilgrim's Pride to Limit BNDES Influence
-- Lucia Kassai
-- 2010-07-28T21:55:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/brazil-s-jbs-considers-spinning-off-pilgrim-s-pride-to-limit-bndes-s-stake.html

          
          
             JBS SA , the world’s biggest beef
producer, is considering making its $7.1 billion Pilgrim’s Pride
unit the parent of U.S. operations to limit the influence of
Brazil’s BNDES state development bank, a person familiar with
the situation said.  
 JBS  is weighing the transaction to prevent Brazil from
taking greater control after the state bank bought $2 billion of
convertible bonds, said the person, who declined to be named
because the plans aren’t public. The bonds are convertible into
 JBS stock  if the Sao Paulo-based company fails to hold an IPO of
its JBS USA Holdings Inc. unit by 2011.  
 BNDES could more than double its stake under the offer
terms to 34 percent, from 17 percent,  Rafael Cintra , a Sao
Paulo-based analyst with Link Investimentos SA, said in a phone
interview July 22. Under the plan, JBS would merge its existing
U.S. business into Pilgrim’s Pride and BNDES would take a stake
in the combined U.S. unit, the person said.  
 “If BNDES boosts its stake in JBS SA, investors may get a
little bit uneasy about government influence,” Cintra said.  
 JBS denied the story in a regulatory filing today and said
it isn’t in negotiations for a merger or acquisition.     A BNDES
spokesman, who couldn’t be identified because of the company’s
policy, said the bank declined to comment.  
 No IPO Plans  
 JBS executives said on a May 14 conference call with
investors that the company had “no plans” for the IPO of JBS
USA this year, postponing for a second time the planned share
sale. The company said Jan. 28 it would delay the offering after
“market conditions deteriorated.”  
 JBS controls more than 10 percent of global beef
processing, after about 30 acquisitions in the past 15 years.
The company planned the share sale to expand its distribution
network after buying Pilgrim’s Pride and Brazil’s Bertin SA.  
 Pilgrim’s Pride had sales of $7.1 billion in the year
through September 2009. The operator of chicken processing
plants and prepared-food facilities in 12 U.S. states filed for
Chapter 11 protection on Dec. 1, 2008, because of “liquidity
challenges,” and was bought by JBS in September 2009.  
 Pilgrim’s fell 47 cents, or 6.2 percent, to $7.06 at the
5:15 p.m. close of New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lucia Kassai  in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        