-- Buffett's Dairy Queen, Home of `Blizzard,' Seeks Ban of Blizz Yogurt Sales
-- Andrew Frye
-- 2010-07-28T12:40:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/buffett-s-dairy-queen-home-of-blizzard-seeks-ban-of-blizz-yogurt-sales.html

          
          
             International Dairy Queen, the ice
cream maker owned by  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc.,
asked a California court to halt sales of frozen desserts
marketed under a name similar to its Blizzard product.  
 Blizz Frozen Yogurt is causing confusion among customers
familiar with  Dairy Queen’s  best-selling item, the company said
in a filing in U.S. District Court in Los Angeles. The request
seeks to block Yogubliz Inc.’s use of the Blizz name. Yogubliz
filed a pre-emptive suit in May, saying it received threats from
Dairy Queen and that the two products are distinct.  
 Dairy Queen “is suffering irreparable harm and damage to
the goodwill” of Blizzard trademarks, the company said in a
July 26 filing. Yogubliz’s product is “likely to cause
confusion, mistake and deception among consumers.”  
 Dairy Queen, which operates restaurants in every U.S. state
but Vermont, was purchased by Omaha, Nebraska-based  Berkshire  in
1998, according to the company’s website. Buffett, Berkshire’s
chief executive officer,  built the parent company  with
investments in brands like Coca-Cola Co. and American Express
Co.  
 Dairy Queen said Blizz Frozen Yogurt would dilute the
distinctive quality of the “famous” Blizzard treat, according
to the filing. The Blizzard is a “soft serve frozen dairy
product blended with candy or cookie pieces or other
flavorings,” the company said.  
 Blizzard Sales  
 Dairy Queen sold more than 175 million Blizzards in 1985,
the first year it was offered, according to the company’s
website. The dessert specialist made an 8,225-pound Blizzard in
Springfield, Massachusetts, in 2005 to celebrate the treat’s
20th anniversary, according to the  Website .  
 In its complaint, Yogubliz said its product doesn’t
infringe on Dairy Queen trademarks. The rival offerings are
“based on the wholly unprotectible idea of freezing and serving
milk and milk-based products with or without flavoring, coloring
and/or non-milk products,” according to the complaint.  
 Yogubliz said  its products  received “rave reviews” upon
launch and, because they’re made with frozen yogurt, are
different than Dairy Queen’s Blizzard. Yogubliz owns shops
throughout California and in Las Vegas.  
 The company said it received a trademark last year for
Blizzberry, a blended drink made with fruit, milk and frozen
yogurt.  
 A hearing is set for an Aug. 23 in front of U.S. District
Judge  Gary Klausner .  
 Dean Peters , a spokesman for Dairy Queen, declined to
comment. A call to Yogubliz’s offices after hours wasn’t
returned.  
 The case is Yogubliz Inc. v. American Dairy Queen Corp.,
2:10-cv-03677, U.S. District Court, Central District of
California (Los Angeles).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dakin Campbell  in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 28 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Jon Erlichman reports on the latest breaking news and top stories in today's Business Briefs. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
