-- Build America Bond Program Extended 2 Years Under Bill Advanced in House
-- William Selway
-- 2010-07-28T21:33:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/build-america-bond-program-would-be-extended-two-years-under-house-measure.html

          
          
             The Build America Bond program would
be extended for two years under a bill introduced in the House
of Representatives after previous efforts to extend the
subsidized municipal-debt offerings stalled in the Senate.  
 House Ways and Means Committee Chairman  Sander Levin , a
Michigan Democrat, today  advanced legislation  that would keep
the program, now set to expire at year-end, through 2012. The
bill also includes provisions to extend subsidies for state
employment programs and close tax loopholes for businesses with
overseas profits.  
 “This legislation reaffirms our commitment to creating
jobs in America and closing loopholes that encourage companies
to ship jobs and investments overseas,” Levin said in a
statement.  
 The Build America Bond program, under which the federal
government pays 35 percent of the interest costs of taxable
bonds sold to pay for public works projects, was created last
year as part of President  Barack Obama ’s economic-stimulus
package to help ease borrowing by state and local governments.  
 The program has been a boon for state and local
governments, which have sold more than $123 billion of the
securities. Issuers have used it to lower the cost of public
works, from a new bridge across San Francisco Bay to nuclear
reactors in Georgia.  
 The House twice passed measures that would extend the
program, only to see them falter in the Senate. Most recently,
the provision was removed from a bill to extend unemployment
insurance amid concerns among the Republican minority about the
federal deficit.  
 Lower Subsidy Rate  
 State, city, and county groups have pressed to keep the
program in place, saying it has helped stimulate their economies
in the wake of the recession. Under Levin’s bill, the subsidy
rate would drop to 32 percent next year and 30 percent in 2012.  
 Coupled with changes to the tax law for corporations, Levin
said his bill won’t add to the deficit.  Matthew Beck , a
spokesman for the Ways and Means Committee, said the bill may
come up for a vote in the full House as soon as this week.  
 Levin said the Build America Bond program has helped
support nearly 2 million jobs.  
 “We have made this proposal clear and simple so that
Republicans have an opportunity to join us in promoting U.S.
jobs and stopping outsourcing,” said Levin.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 William Selway  in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        