-- Cadillac, $38,000 Coupe Help Boost Mozart Festival, Jazz Center
-- Patrick Cole
-- 2010-07-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/cadillac-returns-with-38-000-coupe-to-boost-mozart-festival-jazz-center.html

          
          
             Cadillac is back at Lincoln Center
for the Performing Arts after a brief detour to the financial
repair shop.  
 New York-area  Tri-State Cadillac Dealers  ended its six-
figure sponsorship of Jazz at Lincoln Center last year after
Cadillac parent General Motors Co. went through a $50 billion
U.S.-backed bankruptcy and pared corporate sponsorships.  General
Motors of Canada  also dropped its sponsorship of the Montreal
International Jazz Festival in 2009.  
 Then in March, Bret Silver, the center’s chief external-
relations officer overseeing fundraising, teamed with Polly Rua,
director of corporate relations, and got the group of Cadillac
dealers to back a smaller sponsorship package for the  Mostly
Mozart  festival. Also in the agreement was a mini-sponsorship of
the jazz center in May in exchange for displaying a Cadillac
near Frederick P. Rose Hall.  
 “The dealerships wanted to put a toe back in the water to
have a relationship with the larger Lincoln Center family,” Rua
said.  
 The dealerships also were keen to lure younger buyers
attending the festival by displaying the sexy $38,000 2011
Cadillac CTS Coupe. A recent survey by J.D. Power & Associates,
an auto-market researcher, found that the average Cadillac buyer
is 62 and has a median household income of $129,656.  
 “Cadillac had this perception of being more for the
successful older gentleman, but not today,” said Sammy Bical,
president of Tri-State Cadillac Dealers and of Kristal Auto Mall
in Brooklyn. “Our vehicles are focused on the younger buyer and
the needs of younger people.”  
 Decline in Funding  
 The sponsorship gave a little boost to the world’s largest
performing-arts center dedicated to jazz at a time when arts
nonprofits have seen a decline in funding. Last year, giving to
the arts, which represents 4 percent of charitable donations,
dropped 2.4 percent.  
 Cadillac’s support of the summer classical music festival
helped offset operating costs for the three-week Mozart program.
It opened last night with French conductor and music director
 Louis Langree  leading the festival orchestra in works including
Chopin’s Concerto No. 2 with  Emanuel Ax  on piano and Mozart’s
Overture to La clemenza di Tito and Symphony No. 35.  
 Tonight, Ax will replace Mihaela Ursuleasa, who suffered a
back injury, and perform an all-Chopin lineup for a new hour-
long recital program at the festival called “A Little Night
Music” at 10:30 p.m. in the  Stanley H. Kaplan Penthouse .  
 Paavo Jarvi  
 The Estonian-born conductor  Paavo Jarvi  leads  Die Deutsche
Kammerphilharmonie  from Bremen, Germany, through Mozart’s Piano
Concert No. 17 in G major and two Schumann pieces on Aug. 2. The
 Mark Morris Dance Group  interprets Handel’s oratorio, L’Allegro,
il Penseroso ed il Moderato Aug. 5-7. The Grammy Award-winning
 Emerson String Quartet  will play an all-Mozart chamber-music
program on Aug. 16.  
 Silver said he hopes Cadillac will return as a major
sponsor to the jazz center in the near future.  
 “In a down economy, fundraisers have to cast a wide net to
bring in the same number of fish because the competition is
strong,” Silver said.  
 The 44th Mostly Mozart Festival continues tonight at
Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts. Information: +1-212-721-
6500 or  http://new.lincolncenter.org/live/index.php/mostly -
mozart-2010  
 To contact the writer on this story:
 Patrick Cole  in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Louis Langree, conducts the Mostly Mozart Orchestra in Avery Fisher Hall at Lincoln Center. Langree, the music director for the festival, sponsored this year by Cadillac, will lead a program that includes works by Mozart, Chopin, Handel and Gluck. Source: Lincoln Center/Via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Adrian Ellis, executive director of Jazz at Lincoln Center, left, and Bret Silver, director of development for Jazz at Lincoln Center. Ellis and Silver have sought to build a network of corporate sponsors, and a philanthropic base for the world's largest performing arts center dedicated to jazz. Photographer: Keyur Khamar/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Polly Rua  
                       
                         
                           Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Polly Rua, director of corporate relations for Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts. Rua helped negotiate Cadillac's first sponsorship of the Mostly Mozart Festival, which helps offset production costs. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Polly Rua, director of corporate relations for Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts. Rua helped negotiate Cadillac's first sponsorship of the Mostly Mozart Festival, which helps offset production costs. Source: Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Bret Silver, director of development for Jazz at Lincoln Center. Silver teamed with Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts to persuade Cadillac to do a limited sponsorship of the jazz center in May, and to become a lead sponsor for the Mostly Mozart Festival at Avery Fisher Hall. Photographer: Keyur Khamar/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
