-- Cameron Was Resigned to Defeat on Eve of Ousting Brown as Prime Minister
-- Gonzalo Vina
-- 2010-07-29T10:16:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/cameron-was-resigned-to-defeat-on-eve-of-ousting-brown-as-prime-minister.html

          
          
             David Cameron  told his wife Samantha
he believed he’d failed in a bid to become British prime
minister as  Gordon Brown  sought to keep his Labour Party in
power after the May 6 election.  
 Cameron said to his wife on May 10 that “I definitely
won’t be prime minister,” after Brown attempted to woo  Nick Clegg ’s Liberal Democrats into a coalition with Labour rather
than Cameron’s Conservatives, according to a BBC television
documentary. Within 24 hours, she was by Cameron’s side as he
entered 10 Downing Street as premier after talks between Brown
and Clegg collapsed.  
 “I remember going home, I think, on Monday evening, and I
think Sam and I had supper in the kitchen, and I remember
saying, you know, it’s not going to happen,” Cameron said in
the program,  “Five Days that Changed Britain,”  which is due to
air tonight. “I’m going to be leader of the opposition.”  
 Within hours, Cameron had struck a deal with Britain’s No.
3 party to form the first coalition government since World War
II, ending 13 years of Labour control. The agreement followed
five days of unprecedented talks after elections that failed to
give a single party a majority in the House of Commons for the
first time since 1974.  
 Conservative and Liberal Democrat negotiators met soon
after the vote. By the fourth day of talks, Brown offered to
resign to pave the way for a Labour-Liberal alliance, almost
thwarting Cameron’s efforts to agree on a deal with Clegg.  
 Spending Cuts  
 Labour’s efforts broke down, according to  Ed Balls , the
former education secretary who is now running to replace Brown
as Labour leader, when his party wouldn’t agree to immediate
cuts in government expenditure. Clegg’s party demanded spending
cuts even though it had opposed them during the election
campaign.  
 “I was astonished, if I’m quite honest because, you know,
it didn’t occur to me that they would think for a moment they
could hold their party together on such a massive breach of the
manifesto,” Balls said on the program, according to transcript
excerpts released by the BBC.  
 Even though he didn’t spell out his views to voters, Clegg
said he had changed his mind about the need for cuts before
entering talks with Conservatives as markets began putting
pressure on Greece over its budget deficit. The U.K. has the
 largest budget shortfall  among Group of Seven countries at 11
percent of gross domestic product.  
 ‘Financial Earthquake’  
 “Between March and the actual general election a financial
earthquake occurred on our European doorstep,” Clegg said on
the program. “We were all reacting to very fast-moving economic
events.”  
 Brown was the only senior politician involved in the
negotiations who didn’t take part in the program, the BBC said.  
 Cameron told ITV News during a visit to India today that
“the coalition will be good for both parties if we can
demonstrate that this is good, long-term government in the
interests of our country.”  
 Asked about reported comments by Conservative lawmaker
 David Davis  describing the government as the “Brokeback
Coalition,” in a reference to the film “Brokeback Mountain”
about two gay cowboys, the prime minister said he’d prefer a
comparison with a movie starring  John Wayne .  
 “Over time, if people are going to associate it with a
Western, I hope they will go for ‘True Grit,’ because that’s
what we are going to need,” Cameron said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gonzalo Vina  in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Talks between Brown and Clegg collapsed  
                       
                         
                           Rupert Hartley/Bloomberg 
                         
                         U.K. prime minister David Cameron and his wife Samantha wave to the media outside 10 Downing Street. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     U.K. prime minister David Cameron and his wife Samantha wave to the media outside 10 Downing Street. Photographer: Rupert Hartley/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     David Cameron, U.K. prime minister, and Nick Clegg, U.K. deputy prime minister, enter 10 Downing Street, in London. Photographer: Rupert Hartley/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
