-- Canadians Find Wreck of Ship That Helped Trace Northwest Passage in Arctic
-- Alexandre Deslongchamps
-- 2010-07-28T18:10:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/canadians-find-wreck-of-ship-that-helped-trace-northwest-passage-in-arctic.html

          
          
             Canadian archeologists this week
found the wreck of the HMS Investigator, which was part of an 
expedition  by British explorer Robert McClure and was the first
to sail the last portion of the Northwest Passage in the Arctic.  
 “Incredibly, we were able to get out in a zodiac, above
the ship wreck yesterday and look down into the clear Arctic
water and see all the details of the shipwreck,” Environment
Minister  Jim Prentice  said in a satellite telephone interview
from Mercy Bay in  Aulavik National Park . “You can actually see
all the details of the ship. It’s pretty incredible.”  
 Prentice said the first images of the wreck should be
available this week.  
 The HMS Investigator was found using sonar equipment on
July 25 in Mercy Bay, Marc-Andre Bernier, an archeologist with
Parks Canada, told reporters in Ottawa today. The team, which
included members from Parks Canada and researchers from the
University of Western Ontario and Newfoundland’s Memorial
University, was looking for the wreck and a nearby cache of
provisions transferred from the ship.  
 “This is the ship that sailed the last leg of the
Northwest Passage and in doing so, McClure and his crew were
credited” with finding the passage, Bernier said, adding that
the ship was found within 15 minutes of the start of the search.  
 The ship “seems to be in fairly good condition,” Bernier
said.  
 The HMS Investigator, which was on an expedition looking
for Sir John Franklin and members of his 1845 voyage, was
abandoned in 1853 after it was trapped in ice for two years. The
cache played an important role in Inuit culture after they began
to use some of the materials and resources left behind, Bernier
said.  
 “The Inuit came back for at least a generation after to
harvest some of the materials that were there,” Bernier said.
“It’s part of their history and heritage.”  
 The grave sites of three British sailors who died from
scurvy  days before  the rest of the crew was rescued were also
found on the shore, Prentice said.  
 “The discovery of the Investigator is important in
Canadian history because it really was a critical chapter in
terms of Arctic adventure and exploration in the North,”
Prentice also said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        