-- Canada's Currency Advances on Better Risk Outlook, Raw Materials Prices
-- Chris Fournier
-- 2010-07-28T14:07:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/canada-s-currency-advances-on-better-risk-outlook-raw-materials-prices.html

          
          
             Canada’s dollar strengthened versus
its U.S. counterpart on increased appetite for higher-yielding
assets as equities, copper and natural gas prices rose.  
 The currency, known as the loonie for the aquatic  bird  on
the one-dollar coin, outperformed most of its 16 most-traded
counterparts amid month-end portfolio rebalancing by asset
managers. The nation derives about half its export revenue from
raw materials.  
 “We’re seeing a lot of global flows and portfolio managers
and investors would rather hold Canadian dollars than a lot of
other currencies at the moment,”  Blake Jespersen , director of
foreign exchange at Bank of Montreal, said by phone from
Toronto. “The Canadian dollar is going to continue to
outperform.”  
 The currency strengthened 0.1 percent to C$1.0347 per U.S.
dollar at 10:09 a.m. in Toronto, compared with C$1.0354
yesterday, when it reached C$1.0256, the highest level in more
than a month. One Canadian dollar buys 96.65 U.S. cents.  
 The loonie is up 3.1 percent this month, only the tenth-
best performing major, while the greenback has declined against
all 16 of its most-traded counterparts. Year-to-date, the
Canadian currency is up 2 percent.  
 Concern has slackened that the European sovereign-debt
crisis will widen, just as recent U.S. economic data has called
into question the durability of the North American recovery.  
 In Balance  
 Month-end portfolio rebalancing is boosting the loonie,
according to BMO’s Jespersen. In the process, fund managers with
fixed weightings of foreign assets sell the greenback to adjust
for the increased value of U.S. equities.  
 “We’re getting close to month-end, so you are seeing some
portfolio rebalancing,” Jespersen said, citing purchases of the
currency yesterday by Asian reserve managers. “Some of them
want to add to their Canadian exposure.”  
 The spread between the government 2- and 10-year bond
yields steepened by two basis points today to 1.64 percentage
points. The so called  yield curve  ended July 9 at 1.51
percentage points, the flattest on a closing basis since
December 2008. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 The  MSCI World Index  of equities in 24 developed markets
advanced 0.2 percent. Copper rose to an 11-week high at
$7,196.25 a metric ton. Natural gas futures climbed 3.1 percent
to $4.822 per million British thermal units.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        