-- Capital Goods Orders in U.S. Climb, Signaling Investment Pickup
-- Timothy R. Homan
-- 2010-07-28T20:35:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/capital-goods-orders-in-u-s-climb-signaling-investment-pickup.html

          
          
             Business investment in the U.S.
picked up in the second quarter, helping sustain the economic
recovery, June data on durable goods showed today.  
 Orders  for non-military capital equipment excluding
aircraft climbed 0.6 percent last month after jumping 4.6
percent in May, more than previously reported, figures from the
Commerce Department showed in Washington.  Sales  of such gear,
used in calculating gross domestic product, also rose.  
 “Business investment remains the bright spot in an
otherwise dull economic outlook,” said  Jay Feldman , an
economist at Credit Suisse in New York. “Corporations have
actually underinvested quite dramatically in recent years and,
to some extent, we are catching up.”  
 Eaton Corp.  is among manufacturers benefiting from a pickup
in demand as companies in the U.S. and abroad update equipment.
The gains will partially compensate for a slowdown in consumer
spending that is causing the world’s largest economy to cool
heading into the second half of the year.  
 The Federal Reserve said today that during the past two
months, growth slowed in some areas as commercial real estate
remained weak and home sales dropped after the expiration of a
tax credit. The central bank’s so-called Beige Book business
survey also indicated that while retail sales were “generally
positive,” the gains were “modest.”  
 Total  orders  for durable goods, those meant to last at
least three years, unexpectedly dropped 1 percent, depressed by
a decrease in demand for aircraft which is often volatile.  
 Stocks Fall  
 Stocks fell on concern over the weakness in overall orders.
The Standard & Poor’s  500 Index  decreased 0.7 percent to
1,106.13 at the 4 p.m. close in New York. Treasury securities
climbed, sending the yield on the benchmark 10-year note down to
3 percent from 3.05 percent late yesterday.  
 Economists forecast total orders would climb 1 percent,
according to the  median  of 76 projections in a Bloomberg News
survey. Estimates ranged from a drop of 1 percent to a 4 percent
gain. The Commerce Department revised May orders to show a 0.8
percent drop compared with a previously reported decrease of 0.6
percent.  
 Bookings for non-defense capital goods excluding aircraft
are a proxy for future business investment. Over the past three
months, these orders climbed at a 25 percent annual pace, up
from a 15 percent gain in the three months to March, signaling
companies plan to ramp up spending.  
 Shipments of those items, used in calculating gross
domestic product, increased 0.2 percent after rising 1.5 percent
in May.  
 Computers, Electronics  
 Demand in June increased for computers, communications gear
and electrical equipment.  
 Eaton, the Cleveland-based maker of engine valves and
transmissions, last week boosted its profit projections for 2010
on rising demand for truck parts and hydraulic systems.  
 “This year is shaping up to be better than we had
forecast,” Chief Executive Officer  Sandy Cutler  said in a July
21 statement.  
 A Commerce Department report in two days may show the U.S.
economy grew at a 2.5 percent annual pace from April through
June compared with a 2.7 percent rate in the first three months
of the year, according to the median estimate of analysts
surveyed. Consumer spending rose 2.4 percent after a 3 percent
first-quarter gain, the survey showed.  
 Economists at Morgan Stanley reiterated their 3.2 percent
forecast for second-quarter GDP after the durable goods report.
Growth was “led by a surge in business capital spending,”  Ted Wieseman , a Morgan Stanley economist in New York, said in a
research report.  
 Second Half  
 The anticipated slowdown in household purchases last
quarter means business investment will also cool later this
year, said  Steven Wieting , managing director of economic and
market analysis at Citigroup Global Markets in New York.  
 “We are looking for sustained expansion in capital
investment this year, but not at rates as strong as in the
second quarter,” said Wieting in a telephone interview. “You
can’t ignore the end consumer, ever.”  
 Growing demand from overseas is also helping American
factories.  Exports  climbed 21 percent in the 12 months ended
May, the biggest year-over-year gain since comparable records
began in 1992, according to Commerce Department data.  
 Recent reports have shown Europe is so far weathering the
credit crisis. The continent’s service and manufacturing
industries unexpectedly accelerated in July, German business
confidence surged to a three-year high and the British economy
grew in the second quarter at the fastest pace in four years.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Commercial aircraft orders dropped 26 percent  
                       
                         
                           Simon Dawson/Bloomberg 
                         
                         The tailfin of the Boeing 787 Dreamliner airplane. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The tailfin of the Boeing 787 Dreamliner airplane. Photographer: Simon Dawson/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
