-- Casey's Will Buy Back $500 Million of Stock in Bid to Fend Off Couche-Tard
-- Niveditha Ravi
-- 2010-07-28T17:14:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/casey-s-general-stores-will-buy-back-500-mln-offering-higher-stock-price.html

          
          
             Casey’s General Stores Inc.  offered
to buy back as much as $500 million in stock at a price that
tops Alimentation Couche-Tard Inc.’s revised offer for the U.S.
convenience-store chain.  
 Casey’s will pay $38 to $40 a share, using cash and debt
financing to execute a modified “Dutch auction” self-tender
offer, the Ankeny, Iowa-based company said today in a statement.
Casey’s said Couche-Tard’s offer of $36.75 undervalues the
company and urged  shareholders  not to tender their stock.  
 Couche-Tard said in the statement it is evaluating options
after Casey’s said the repurchase, equal to about 25 percent of
outstanding stock, will enable expansion and provide greater
returns to shareholders. Casey’s has fended off Couche-Tard
since April, when the Laval, Quebec-based company proposed a
takeover at $36 a share.  
 “Couche-Tard has been very forward that they do not
believe shares are worth north of $38,”  Ben Brownlow , an
analyst with Memphis, Tennessee-based Morgan Keegan & Co., said
in a telephone interview. Morgan Keegan has an “outperform”
rating on Casey’s stock.  
 Casey’s rose $1.10, or 3 percent, to $37.60 at 12:28 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Before today, the
shares had advanced 16 percent since April 8, a day before
Couche-Tard’s unsolicited bid.  
 Disappointed Suitor  
 Alain Bouchard , Couche-Tard’s chief executive officer, said
in the statement that the company is disappointed Casey’s
intends to buy back “only 25 percent of the shares without even
sitting down to talk to us.”  Casey’s called Couche-Tard’s bid
an “inadequate, self-serving offer.”  
 The Canadian chain began an unsolicited tender offer for
Casey’s last month, urging the U.S. company to accept the bid or
face a proxy fight. Couche-Tard said it plans to nominate nine
independent candidates for election to Casey’s  board .  
 Casey’s sued Couche-Tard last month for allegedly dumping
almost 2 million shares of the U.S. retailer immediately after
offering to buy it for $1.9 billion.  
 After announcing its bid April 9, Couche-Tard sold its
Casey’s shares, reaping more than $10 million and depressing
their value, Casey’s said in a lawsuit filed June 11 in federal
court in Davenport, Iowa. Couche-Tard said the suit meritless
and that it would defend against the claims.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Burritt  in Greensboro, North Carolina,
at   cburritt@bloomberg.net ;
 Niveditha Ravi  in New York at 
 nravi1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        