-- Centrica First-Half Profit Rises After Cold Winter Spurs Natural-Gas Use
-- Kari Lundgren
-- 2010-07-28T15:40:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/centrica-first-half-profit-rises-after-cold-winter-spurs-natural-gas-use.html

          
          
             Centrica Plc , Britain’s biggest
energy supplier, said first-half profit surged 65 percent,
boosted by an increase in customers and gas demand during the
coldest U.K. winter in 30 years.  
 Operating profit rose to 1.56 billion pounds ($2.43
billion) from 945 million pounds a year earlier, the Windsor,
England-based company said today. Sales were little changed at
11.7 billion pounds as tariffs for U.K. business customers
declined, the company said.  
 A “significant differential in price” between Centrica
and its competitors helped win customers, Financial Director
 Nick Luff  said on a conference call. “Wholesale gas and power
prices are looking quite a lot higher for this coming winter.”  
 U.K. gas demand rose almost 11 percent in the first six
months of 2010 from 2009, according to analysts at Citigroup
Inc. The increase helped to almost doubled profits at Centrica’s
British Gas unit, which also added 223,000 customers to 15.9
million. Full-year profits will be “heavily weighted towards
the first half of the year,” Centrica said.  
 Centrica’s shares fell 3.7 pence, or 1.2 percent, to 304
pence in London.  
 Strong Margin  
 “The combination of cold weather and low gas prices helped
them achieve really strong downstream margins,”  John Musk , an
analyst at Nomura International Plc, said by telephone. British
Gas margins improved to about 13 percent from 7 percent a year
earlier and are likely to be in the “high single digits” for
the full-year, he said.  
 The company “won’t maintain the very rapid pace of
customer numbers we saw in the first half,” Luff said.  
 Having strengthened its production position with the
purchase of Venture Production Plc and Suncor Energy Inc.’s gas
assets in Trinidad and Tobago, Centrica is seeking to buy more
gas and power assets in North America, the executive said.  
 He declined to comment on whether the company is
considering assets owned by BP Plc or International Power Plc.  
 “We’re interested in some very specific areas of the world
and there are number of companies that have assets in those
areas,” he said. Areas of interest include those near markets
where Centrica sells energy, such as the North Sea, Canada and
Trinidad and Tobago, he said.  
 Downstream  
 Higher gas production and power generation volumes in the
first half offset lower gas and power prices, Centrica said.
Overall gas production rose 41 percent while the average gas
sale price dropped 29 percent. Operating profit for the upstream
business rose to 485 million pounds from 334 million pounds.  
 The utility postponed a decision on investing in its
Caythorpe gas storage project after U.K. regulator Ofgem said it
may force Centrica to give other companies access. The short-
term storage would offer some protection against volatile
commodity prices. Centrica was planning to make an investment
decision this month.  
 Seven out of 10 wells drilled by Venture and partners this
year have shown “positive results,” Centrica said. An
additional six wells will be drilled through the end of 2010.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kari Lundgren  in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        