-- Central European Media Net Incomes Advances on Ukraine Asset Disposals
-- Douglas Lytle
-- 2010-07-28T05:48:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/central-european-media-net-incomes-advances-on-ukraine-asset-disposals.html

          
          
             Central European Media Enterprises
Ltd. , the east European broadcaster that sold a stake to Time
Warner Inc., said second-quarter profit rose almost sevenfold as
revenue advanced following an asset sale.  
 Net income for the three months ended June 30 was $165.2
million, or $2.59 a share, compared with $24.1 million in the
year-ago period, the Hamilton, Bermuda-based company said today
in a statement. That trailed a median estimate of $219.2 million
by five analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  
 The broadcaster, also known as CME, said in June that
spending on television advertising in its markets continued to
fall in the second quarter. It agreed to sell its Ukrainian
units in January and completed the acquisition of Bulgarian
channel bTV from News Corp. in April.  
 “The decisive actions we took in the last four quarters to
reposition our business, including the sale of our Ukrainian
operations, the acquisition of bTV in Bulgaria and integration
of Media Pro Entertainment, have paid off,” CME Chief Executive
Officer  Adrian Sarbu  said in the statement.  
 Net income during the quarter was helped by a gain of
$217.6 million from the sale of the Ukrainian operations.
Revenue rose to $201.7 million from $182.9 million. Operating
income before depreciation and amortization rose 1 percent to
$46.19 million.  
 CME operates TV channels in Czech Republic, Romania,
Croatia, Slovenia, Slovakia and Bulgaria.  
 “The first half of the year was difficult, with only the
Czech Republic and Slovenia starting to recover,” Sarbu said.
“The second half will be challenging, but our continuing
audience leadership uniquely positions us to take advantage of
any improvements in our markets.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Douglas Lytle  in Prague at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        