-- Chilean Industrial Production, Sales Rise Less Than Forecast; Peso Weakens
-- Randy Woods
-- 2010-07-28T17:00:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/chilean-industrial-production-sales-rise-less-than-forecast-peso-weakens.html

          
          
             Chile’s industrial  production  and
factory sales increased in June from a year earlier, backing up
forecasts that economic growth will prompt the central bank to
raise rates for a third consecutive month in August.  
 Output climbed 2.9 percent and sales advanced 1.4 percent,
the National Statistics Institute said today. The median
estimate of 12 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for
production growth of 5.3 percent and a 2.8 percent increase in
sales. Industrial output growth slowed from 4.2 percent in May.  
 “The number was a bit weak, but that doesn’t change any
outlook on the economy’s evolution,” said  Juan Pablo Castro , an
economist with Banco Santander SA who had predicted output would
increase 5 percent last month. “Industrial production is always
a pretty volatile indicator.”  
 Retail sales advanced 18 percent in June and supermarket
revenue grew 7.8 percent, showing that internal demand remains
strong, Castro said in a telephone interview from Santiago.
Central bank policy makers will continue to raise interest rates
as demand creates inflationary pressures, Castro said.  
 Chile’s economy is recovering from last year’s recession
and February’s earthquake. The economy grew 7.1 percent in May
from a year earlier, the quickest annual growth in almost five
years, and probably will grow 5.1 percent in June, Bice
Inversiones said in a note e-mailed to customers on July 26.  
 Chile’s peso dropped 0.8 percent to 523.45 per U.S. dollar
at 12:49 p.m. New York time, from 519.50 yesterday.  
 Drivers of Production  
 Production of durable consumer goods rose 56 percent in
June, followed by a 13.6 percent increase in capital goods, the
statistics agency said.  
 Production of intermediate goods fell 0.2 percent last
month on weak paper output figures, BNP Paribas said in a note
e-mailed to customers today. The salmon industry also continues
to suffer from a virus that is affecting output, Celfin Capital
said in a note e-mailed to investors today.  
 The output data show that Chile hasn’t yet regained
production levels seen before the February earthquake, according
to BNP Paribas.  
 “The industrial production trend will continue to
consolidate once the negative impact of the earthquake is left
behind,” BNP Paribas said in the note.  
 Benchmark Rate, Inflation  
 Policy makers will lift their benchmark interest rate to
2 percent in August after raising lending costs by half a point
in both June and July, according to a bi-weekly survey of
traders and investors published on the central bank website
today.  
 The central bank will increase rates to 3.6 percent in six
months and 4.9 percent in 12 months, according to the median
forecast of 34 traders in the survey.  
 Chile’s benchmark rate probably will return to at least
neutral levels of about 5.75 percent in 18 months to prevent the
economy from overheating,  Vittorio Corbo , a former central bank
president, said in a speech in Santiago. Chile’s economy is on
track to grow 4.5 percent to 5 percent this year and 6 percent
to 7 percent in 2011, he said.  
 “The central bank’s work, which it has done well, is to
continue withdrawing the monetary stimulus while taking into
consideration international developments and their impact on the
domestic economy,” he said July 22.  
 Consumer prices will rise 0.7 percent in July from the
previous month and annual inflation will reach 3.85 percent in
12 months, today’s central bank survey said. The central bank
targets annual inflation of 3 percent.  
 A temporary increase in duties on loans and the price of
produce during the current cold-weather snap in Chile are
creating inflationary pressure this month,  Cristobal Doberti , an
economist at Bice Inversiones in Santiago, said in a telephone
interview.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Randy Woods  in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        