-- Chile Peso Posts Biggest Loss in Region as Output Rises Less Than Forecast
-- Sebastian Boyd
-- 2010-07-28T18:32:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/chile-peso-biggest-loser-among-emerging-currencies-on-industry-output-data.html

          
          
             Chile’s peso weakened more than any
other emerging-market currency tracked by Bloomberg after data
showed industrial output rose less than forecast in June.  
 The peso dropped 0.8 percent to 523.65 per U.S. dollar from
519.50 yesterday. The one-year interest-rate swap rate fell
three basis points as traders trimmed expectations for central
bank interest-rate increases.  
 Chilean  industrial output  grew 2.9 percent in June from a
year earlier, the National Statistics Institute said today, less
than the 5.3 percent median forecast of 12 economists in a
 Bloomberg survey.  The peso has outperformed all major Latin
American currencies tracked by Bloomberg this month as traders
have lifted expectations of interest-rate increases.  
 “Industrial production came out lower than expected,”
said  Roberto Melzi , a Latin American strategist at Barclays
Capital in New York. “If activity’s weak, then the central bank
may hike less, so you get less carry and that cheapens the
peso.”  
 The two-year interest-rate swap rate in pesos fell four
basis points to 4.02 percent. Three-, four-, five-, seven- and
10-year interest-rate swap rates also declined today.  
 Traders had increased expectations of interest-rate
increases as inflation expectations soared on rising electricity
tariffs, more expensive public transport in Santiago and a cold
snap that threatened crops. The inflation forwards market is
discounting a 0.73 percent increase in consumer prices this
month, up from the 0.5 percent on June 30, according to Banco
Santander SA.  
 The median forecast of 34 traders and investors in a
central bank survey published today was that prices will rise
0.7 percent this month. Prices may rise 0.9 percent in July,
economists at Banco de Credito e Inversiones said in a note
yesterday. BCI warned on July 21 that the central bank could
hike by 75 basis points, the most in nine years, next month.  
 Today’s data “may consolidate expectations around 50 basis
points as some people were thinking more was possible,” said
 Flavia Cattan-Naslausky , a strategist at RBS Securities Inc. in
Stamford, Connecticut. “Month-to-date Chile has been the
outperformer, with a huge move compared to all the others.
People just took advantage of the numbers.”  
 The median estimate in today’s central bank survey was for
a rate increase of 50 basis points. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  
 The one-year breakeven inflation rate rose five basis
points to 4.42 percent, a 20-month high, according to Bloomberg
calculations.  
 Chile today auctioned $531 million of inflation-linked
bonds in seven-, 10-, 20- and 30-year tranches, the central bank
said on its Web site. Banks and pension funds submitted $1.8
billion of orders for the debt, the bank said. Pension funds
bought most of the 10-, 20- and 30-year debt.  
 To contact the reporter responsible on this story:
 Sebastian Boyd  in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        