-- Blast at Chemical Factory in China Kills Six People, Injures More Than 300
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-28T09:53:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/china-chemical-factory-blast-kills-6-injures-more-than-300-xinhua-says.html

          
          
             An explosion at an abandoned
chemical factory in Nanjing city in eastern China killed at
least six people and injured more than 300, the official Xinhua
News Agency said.  
 The blast at 10:10 a.m. local time today was sparked by a
gas leak from a pipeline running through the factory, Xinhua
said, citing local media that it didn’t identify. Buildings and
vehicles within a 100-meter (109-yard) radius were badly damaged
and at least 50 people were seriously hurt, Xinhua reported.  
 The explosion is the country’s third major industrial
accident this month, following an acid leak from Zijin Mining
Group Co.’s copper and gold mines into a river in the eastern
province of Fujian and an oil spill in northeastern China that
had shut beaches and a port. The walls and roof of the factory
had collapsed and firefighters were trying to douse a fire,
 photographs  on Xinhua’s website show.  
 The supply of gas feeding the ruptured pipeline has been
cut, and the fire following the explosion is now under control,
Xinhua said.  
 The air in the area still smells of gas, the State
Administration of Work Safety said in its report, citing eye-
witness accounts.  
 As far away as 1 kilometer from the blast site, broken
glass bits were  strewn  along streets, according to a China
National Radio reporter.  
 ‘Flattened’ Houses  
 Most injuries were caused by shattered glass and fallen
walls. A man among the six fatalities died in hospital after the
ceiling of his home collapsed onto him, according to Xinhua.  
 Rescuers were still combing the rubble for signs of
survivors, Xinhua said. Fifteen fire-fighting vehicles and 85
soldiers have been deployed in the area, according to the report.  
 Houses near the plant were “flattened,” according to a
 report  on the website of the State Administration of Work Safety.  
 A gasoline service station operated by  China Petroleum &
Chemical Corp.  wasn’t “seriously” affected by the explosion,
the company known as Sinopec said in an e-mailed statement. A
pipeline at the factory owned by Jiangsu GPRO Group Co. had
exploded, according to Sinopec.  
 Jiangsu GPRO is a privately held company based in Nanjing,
Jiangsu province, involved in petrochemical production and
property development, according to the company’s  website .  
 -- Chua Baizhen  and  Wang Ying  in Beijing. Editors:  Ryan Woo ,  Jane Lee .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Ying Wang in Beijing at 
 ywang30@bloomberg.net ;
Baizhen Chua in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        