-- Worst Plunge in Year for China Stocks is Time to Buy, HSBC Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-12T22:13:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/china-s-stocks-rally-will-wane-on-inflation-outlook-hsbc-s-mahendran-says.html
The worst plunge in China’s stocks
in more than a year is a buying opportunity for investors as the
country’s  benchmark  index may advance as much as 15 percent by
June, according to HSBC Private Bank’s  Arjuna Mahendran .  “The medium-term outlook is good,” said Mahendran, the
head of investment strategy for Asia in Singapore at HSBC
Private Bank, a unit of Europe’s largest lender overseeing $460
billion globally. “The momentum of the economy is strong. The
question is whether it’s too strong.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index  tumbled 5.2 percent to
2,985.44 yesterday, the most since August 2009, as investors
speculated policy makers may raise interest rates for the second
time in two months to curb inflation. The measure had a six-week
winning streak halted after government reports showed October
consumer prices rose at the fastest pace in two years.  Consumer prices jumped 4.4 percent in October, more than
the 4 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 28
economists, the statistics bureau reported Nov. 11. The previous
day, the government had announced the first nationwide increase
in bank reserve requirements since May, which Guotai Junan
Securities Co. said would fail to drain funds from the financial
system because there is “too much liquidity.”  The Shanghai Composite  climbed 1 percent on Nov. 11, the
day after the ratio increase, before yesterday’s tumble.  “Regulators have been clear they wouldn’t condone rising
prices,” Mahendran said in a phone interview. “Inflation is
going to be an issue for the next six to 12 months.”  Stay Cautious  While rate “normalization” will be a “headwind” for
stocks, Mahendran predicted that China’s equity market will
extend its rally since July.  “This is an opportunity to buy stocks at decent prices,”
said Mahendran, who foresaw a decline in China’s equities on
Jan. 20 and said on July 29 that a mid-year rally in equities
would falter should the government be able to contain inflation.  The Shanghai Composite slumped 8.8 percent in January. The
gauge rose less than 0.1 percent in August after a 10 percent
surge the previous month. Consumer prices jumped 3.5 percent in
August, accelerating from July’s 3.3 percent increase.  Zhao Zifeng , who helps oversee about $10.2 billion at China
International Fund Management Co., said investors should be wary
after yesterday’s stock tumble given the lack of clarity over
the government’s tightening policies.  “The plunge may not fully reflect further tightening by
the government such as interest-rate and reserve requirement
increases,” he said in a phone interview in Shanghai. “I would
say it’s better to be cautious.”  Economic Growth  The Shanghai gauge has rebounded 26 percent since reaching
this year’s  low  on July 5 on expectations central banks around
the world will inject more cash into their economies to boost
growth. The index remains down 8.9 percent  this year  after the
government raised bank reserve requirements, including a
percentage-point increase for some banks, and curbed lending
growth to cool the economy.  Companies in the stock gauge are  valued  at 19.2 times
reported  earnings , compared with 26.4 times at the beginning of
the year, according to weekly  data compiled by Bloomberg .  Mahendran recommends Chinese  consumption stocks  including
retailers given the nation’s growth outlook. China’s economy
grew 9.6 percent in the third quarter, exceeding the 9.5 percent
median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey.
Moody’s Investors Services upgraded China’s debt rating this
week, citing the resilience of the economy.  “You just have to wait for the dust to settle,” he said.
“The trend is upward. I’m not too concerned. I see gains for
the index of between 10 percent to 15 percent by June next
year.”  -- Allen Wan ,  Zhang Shidong . With assistance from  Irene Shen .
Editors:  Darren Boey ,  Eric Martin   To contact the reporter on this story:
Allen Wan at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net . 