-- China Stocks Rise as Index Rebounds 11% from 2010 Low on Domestic Outlook
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-28T07:32:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/china-s-stocks-rebound-on-domestic-outlook-led-by-airlines-cement-shares.html

          
          
             China’s stocks  rose, extending gains
for the benchmark index to 11 percent from this year’s low, as a
jump in industrial profits and the prospects for increased
spending and tourism boosted the domestic economic outlook.  
 Anhui Conch Cement Co.  led gains for cement makers after
the Economic Information Daily reported China will announce a
development for the industry.  China Eastern Airlines Corp. , the
second-largest carrier, climbed to the highest in more than two
months after Morgan Stanley raised its rating on the shares.
Industrial companies jumped after reporting higher first-half
profit, paced by Baoshan Iron & Steel Co.’s 2.9 percent advance.  
 “A double-dip for China’s economy seems unlikely,” said
 Zhang Ling , a fund manager at Shanghai River Fund Management Co.
“The rebound will carry on for a while as stocks are cheap and
earnings of some companies have beaten expectations.”  
 The  Shanghai Composite Index , which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, surged 58.30, or 2.3 percent, to
2,633.66 at the 3 p.m. close, the highest since May 28. The  CSI
300 Index  gained 2.4 percent to 2,863.72.  
 The Shanghai index has rebounded from this year’s low set
on July 5 on expectations the government will relax property
curbs and allow more bank lending to counter a slowdown in
economic growth. Still, the gauge is down 21 percent this year
on speculation measures to control real-estate speculation and
rising consumer prices will damp earnings.  
 The government has been seeking to increase domestic
consumption to offset a decline in exports as the global
recovery slows. China will maintain a moderately loose monetary
policy to year-end,  Zhang Tao , head of the central bank’s survey
and statistics department, wrote in the Economic Daily newspaper.  
 Policy Stability  
 The nation’s economic fundamentals remain “good,” the
 People’s Bank of China  said on its website yesterday. China’s
decreasing dependence on exports also means the European debt
crisis is unlikely to have a large impact, the central bank said
in its report for the second quarter. The central bank is
cautiously optimistic about the Chinese economy, it said.  
 President  Hu Jintao  and Premier  Wen Jiabao  pledged last
week to maintain policy stability in the second half after
measures to rein in property prices, inflation and bank lending
eased second-quarter growth to  10.3 percent  from 11.9 percent in
the first.  
 UBS AG economist  Tao Wang  said in a report yesterday the
speech signaled a “subtle shift” in government policies and
that no additional tightening measures will be introduced. The
central bank has raised banks’ reserve requirements three times
this year.  
 China aims to eliminate inefficient cement capacity and
close polluting factories, according to the Economic Information
Daily. Mergers and consolidations among cement makers are set to
accelerate, it reported.  
 Airlines Rally  
 Anhui Conch, China’s biggest cement maker, surged the 10
percent daily limit to 19.58 yuan.  Huaxin Cement Co. , the
Chinese affiliate of Holcim Ltd., gained the maximum 10 percent
to 18.45 yuan. Tangshan Jidong Cement Co. rose 4.6 percent to
18.36 yuan.  
 China Eastern led an advance for airlines, adding 5.6
percent to 8.14 yuan, the highest close since May 6. The stock
had its rating raised to “equal-weight” from “underweight”
by Morgan Stanley analysts led by  Edward Xu , who said the
company’s near-term earnings momentum is “extremely strong,”
helped by a boost from the World Expo in Shanghai. The event has
attracted record crowds in the commercial hub.  
 Air China Ltd., the nation’s largest international carrier,
rose 2.2 percent to 12.57 yuan.  China Southern Airlines Co. , the
country’s biggest carrier by fleet size, climbed 4.1 percent to
7.37 yuan.  
 China’s shares are “due for a catch up” in the second
half of this year as the nation delays further measures to curb
property prices, said JPMorgan Asset Management’s  Emerson Yip .  
 Yip, a Hong Kong-based fund manager for JPMorgan Asset’s
Greater China team, said he’s considering buying more so-called
A shares as evidence mounts that the People’s Bank of China will
hold off from raising interest rates.  
 Earnings Outlook  
 Profits of Chinese industrial companies in 24 regions
jumped 72 percent to 1.61 trillion yuan ($237.5 billion) in the
first half of 2010 from a year earlier, the statistics bureau
said today in a statement on its website.  
 Baoshan Steel, the listed unit of China’s second-biggest
steelmaker, added 2.9 percent to 6.41 yuan.  China Erzhong Group
Deyang Heavy Industries Co. , an equipment supplier to power
producers, gained 2.7 percent to 10.27 yuan. China CSSC Holdings
Ltd., a unit of the nation’s biggest shipbuilder, climbed 2.1
percent to 59.36 yuan.  
 The following companies were among the most active in
China’s markets. Stock symbols are in brackets after companies’
names.  
 Chongqing Fuling Electric Power Industrial Co.  (600452 CH)
rose 6.9 percent to 13.10 yuan, the biggest gain in two months,
after the company said first-half profit surged 48 percent from
a year earlier.  
 Guangzhou Iron and Steel Co.  (600894 CH) rose 2.4 percent
to 6.33 yuan. The company said it posted net income of 46.4
million yuan for the first half, compared with a net loss of
28.3 million yuan a year earlier.  
 Xishui Strong Year Co.  (600291 CH) jumped by the 10 percent
daily limit to 11.08 yuan. The company’s board approved to sell
part of the stakes in two cement units for combined 356.6
million yuan, Xishui Strong said in a statement late yesterday.  
 -- Zhang Shidong . Editors:  Allen Wan ,  Richard Frost   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7014 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 27 (Bloomberg) -- Jim Antos, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd., talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin about his investment strategy for Chinese banks. 
     Chinese banks may struggle to recoup about 23 percent of the 7.7 trillion yuan ($1.1 trillion) they’ve lent to finance local government infrastructure projects, according to a person with knowledge of data collected by the nation’s regulator. About half of all loans need to be serviced by secondary sources including guarantors because the ventures can’t generate sufficient revenue, the person said, declining to be identified because the information is confidential. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 26 (Bloomberg) -- Steve Bernstein, chief executive officer of Oppenheimer Investments Asia Ltd., talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin about his investment strategy for Asian stocks. 
     Bernstein, speaking in Hong Kong, also discusses the outlook for Chinese banks and initial public offerings. (Excerpt. Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
