-- China's Environment Accidents Double as Growth Takes Toll
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-28T08:11:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/china-s-environment-accidents-double-as-growth-spurs-demand-for-metal-oil.html

          
          
             China, the world’s largest polluter,
said the number of environmental accidents rose 98 percent in
the first six months of the year, as demand for energy and
minerals lead to poisoned rivers and oil spills.  
 “Fast economic development is leading to increasing
conflicts with the capacity of the environment to absorb”
demands, the environmental protection ministry said in a faxed
statement in response to Bloomberg questions.  
 An acid leak at  Zijin Mining Group Co. ’s copper and gold
mine this month poisoned enough fish in the Ting River to feed
72,000 for a year, and Dalian’s beaches and port were closed
by an oil spill at the nation’s largest crude terminal. The
accidents underscore the toll from two decades of growth
averaging 10.1 percent that made China the third-largest economy.  
 “The government is starting to spend huge amount of money
cleaning up the air, and cleaning up the water,”  Jim Rogers ,
who co-founded the Quantum Hedge Fund in 1970, said from
Singapore. “It’s going to lead to higher cost, just as it does
everywhere in the world. A clean smelter is more expensive than
a dirty smelter.”  
 There were about 102 accidents in the first half, compared
with 171 for the whole of 2010, according to figures derived
from the ministry’s data. The oil spill at  Dalian , 10 times the
amount in the last incident in Shaanxi province in December, was
the biggest in Chinese waters, according to Greenpeace. Zijin’s
waste leak Fujian province was the worst in the Chinese gold
industry in two years.  
 Heavy Metal Pollution  
 “If China doesn’t address the environmental issues when
the economy is growing fast, it might become a destabilizing
factor in the society,” Ma Jun, founder of the Institute of
Public Environmental Affairs, a researcher, said by phone from
Beijing. “The Chinese public is increasingly aware and vocal
about the heavy metal pollution brought on by refineries and
smelters.”  
 Air quality deteriorated for the first time in five years
in the first six months, the environment ministry said July 26.
The world’s largest metal and energy consumer also has the worst
coal-mine safety record, with an average of seven deaths each
day in accidents last year.  
 “Local governments are trying to develop their economies
and the thinking is ‘get rich first, worry about the pollution
later,’” Yang Ailun, head of the climate change unit for
Greenpeace, said in Beijing. “The central government is very
aware that the current economic model is unsustainable.”  
 An explosion at an abandoned plastics and chemical factory
in Nanjing city killed at least six people, the official Xinhua
News Agency said today.  
 Water Checks  
 The ministry  has started a nationwide investigation of
drinking water and mine tailing ponds this year, the statement
said. It has also set up databases on violations, strengthened
regulations and is encouraging residents to report complaints.  
 “China is in a state of development when there’s a high
rate of violations,” the environment ministry said. There were
at least 10 incidents a month in the first half, it said.  
 Before the accidents at Zijin and Dalian port, the
environmental ministry listed  PetroChina Co. ’s Songhua River
toxic spill in 2005, Sichuan Chemical Co.’s waste leaks into the
Tuojiang River and Shaoguan Smelting Plant’s illegal discharge
of cadmium as among the worst cases in the past six years.  
 The government has been identifying a “large number of
culprits” in new cases, the ministry said in the statement.  
 Small Penalties  
 Still, the penalties for companies may be “too small,”
said  Tony Zheng , president of Shanghai Good Hope Equity
Investment Management Co. “The fines won’t deal a fatal blow to
big Chinese companies. It’s unlike in the U.S.”  
 Zijin said it may pay 5 million yuan ($737,500), or 0.2
percent of last year’s net income, in compensation for fish
poisoned. A penalty hasn’t been decided on the leakage yet, the
environment ministry said in the statement.  
 PetroChina, the nation’s largest oil producer, was
fined 1 million yuan, out of a net income of 133 billion yuan in
2005, for the accident that affected the drinking water of three
million people. That contrasts with the $20 billion that
President Barack Obama has demanded from BP Plc for the worst
oil spill in U.S. history.  
 China’s environmental ministry checked almost a million
companies last year, and forced more than 2,000 to stop or curb
production, according to its annual report. Between March and
May this year, it monitored paper mills and water treatment
companies in provinces including Guangdong and Hebei, finding
that as many as half broke laws, the ministry said  July 6 .  
 Under Surveillance  
 “Listed mining and smelting companies are now increasingly
under the surveillance of the environmental ministry and will
have to get approval from them before getting funding, or
licenses for expansion or for rights issues,” said Shi Heqing,
an analyst at Beijing Antaike Information Development Co.  
 The nation passed the U.S. to become the biggest emitter of
carbon dioxide in 2006, according to the U.S. Department of
Energy. China overtook the U.S. as the world’s biggest energy
user last year, according to the International Energy Agency.  
 New environmental rules may push up steelmakers’ costs by
at least 10 percent, according to the China Metallurgical
Industry Planning and Research Institute, a government adviser.
The higher requirements come as China is also grappling with
wage demand from workers.  
 “Some small and medium-size companies will go out of
business with the rising labor cost and higher environment
requirements,” said Hu Xingdou, a professor of economics at
the Beijing Institute of Technology. “If China relies on low
wage and high pollution industries, people won’t benefit much no
matter how the GDP rises.”  
 -- Helen Yuan ,  Feiwen Rong  and  Diao Ying , with assistance from
 John Duce ,  Penny Peng  and  Miao Han . Editors:  Tan Hwee Ann ,  Keith Gosman .  
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net ;
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Workers scoop up spilled crude oil at the Nantuo Fishing Harbor in Dalian, Liaoning province. Photographer: Liu Debin/Color China/AP  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 28 (Bloomberg) -- Brian Youngberg, an analyst at Edward Jones in St. Louis, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the outlook for BP Plc.
     BP appointed U.S.-born Robert Dudley as chief executive officer and pledged to accelerate asset sales to as much as $30 billion after the Gulf of Mexico oil spill led to a record loss. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
