-- China Could Jolt Markets on Aug. 1 With PMI Below 50, Westpac, SocGen Say
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-28T09:21:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/china-could-jolt-markets-on-aug-1-with-pmi-below-50-westpac-socgen-say.html

          
          
             Chinese manufacturing data due in
four days could jolt global markets by showing the first
contraction in 17 months, according to analysts at Societe
Generale SA and Westpac Banking Corp.  
 Seasonal factors mean there is a “tangible risk” the
government-backed  Purchasing Managers’ Index  for July will slip
below 50 for the first time since February 2009, said  Glenn Maguire , chief Asia economist for Societe Generale in Hong Kong.
A PMI released by HSBC Holdings Plc could also show a
contraction, he said.  
 “In a world where financial markets are increasingly
sensitive to Chinese data flow, if realized, this could elicit a
significant market reaction,” Maguire said in a note today.  
 The  Chinese economy , one of the drivers of world growth, is
cooling as the government reins in the expansion of credit and
damps property speculation after a lending binge jump-started
the nation’s recovery. The slowdown is consistent with a “soft-
landing,” UBS AG said yesterday.  
 Maguire said that seasonal influences on the data could
give a misleading picture when the economy is “not cooling too
rapidly” and “certainly manufacturing is not contracting.”  
 Westpac said in a note this week that it was “worthwhile
thinking how global risk appetite would respond” to a number
below 50 in the government series.  
 “The weakness in the PMI over July/August is seasonal but
it also reflects a genuine deceleration in underlying
momentum,”  Huw McKay , a Sydney-based economist for Westpac,
said by e-mail.  
 The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 13
analysts is for a reading of 51.4 in the government-backed PMI,
released by the statistics bureau and the Chinese logistics
federation. The lowest estimate is 50.1, the highest 53.1.  
 -- Chinmei Sung  and Sophie Leung. Editors:  Paul Panckhurst ,  Richard Dobson .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chinmei Sung  in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        