-- China's Sashimi Appetite Helps Cathay Pacific Fill Cargo Holds
-- Chan Sue Ling
-- 2010-07-29T12:18:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/china-s-appetite-for-sashimi-helps-cathay-pacific-avoid-empty-cargo-holds.html

          
          
             Xin Jing spends about 200 yuan ($30)
on Japanese sashimi each time she visits City’super’s grocery
store in Shanghai. Her appetite is helping fill cargo planes
bound for China, boosting profit at  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd.   
 “Sashimi is my favorite food,” said Xin, 29, who runs a
small commodities trading firm in the city. “I tend to buy a
lot of fresh stuff once a week.”  
 As increasingly  wealthy Chinese consumers  eat more imported
fresh fish, lobster and  cheese , they are helping global air
cargo revenue rebound from the worst decline in five decades
last year. Fueled by growing demand for luxury goods and
perishable  foods from overseas , the nation will lead an 18.5
percent recovery in air shipments this year, according to a June
estimate by the  International Air Transport Association .  
 “China has attracted more investment and luxury brands, as
purchasing power has gotten much stronger,” said  Kelvin Lau , an
equity analyst at Daiwa Institute of Research in Hong Kong. At
Cathay Pacific,  cargo , which represents about a third of revenue,
“would provide a very good support for a rebound in profits,”
he said.  
 Rising domestic consumption boosted China’s  imports  53
percent in the first half of this year, reducing a trade
imbalance that’s caused air-cargo haulers to fly empty planes
into the nation to fill up on export goods.  
 Growing Middle Class  
 China’s middle class, defined as households with annual
disposable incomes between $5,000 and $15,000, may rise to 46
percent of households by 2020 from 32 percent this year, London-
based research firm  Euromonitor International  said in March. The
world’s fastest-growing major economy may expand 9.5 percent
this year, Citigroup Inc. said this month.  
 To meet rising demand, Hong Kong-based City’super and
Italy’s  Salvatore Ferragamo SpA  are adding more outlets, while
Cathay Pacific is putting parked cargo planes back into service.  
 United Parcel Service Inc. , the world’s largest package-
delivery company, has added two cargo planes in Hong Kong and
one in Shanghai this year.  FedEx Corp. , the world’s biggest air-
cargo carrier, is planning to buy more freighters for its
longest routes to Asia. Both companies increased their profit
forecasts this month, citing growth in Asia.  
 Global air-cargo volumes dropped 10 percent last year as
the worst global recession in six decades crimped world trade.
This year,  Korean Air Lines Co. , the world’s largest
international air-freight carrier, is predicting cargo volumes
may surpass the record set in 2007.  
 Air-Cargo Growth  
 Air-cargo volume to China from North America may increase
7.8 percent annually in the next 10 years, according to Air
Cargo World’s  website . Air shipments to China from western
Europe may grow 8.3 percent a year. Airlines in the Asia-Pacific
region represent 45 percent of international scheduled freight
demand.  
 Cathay Pacific, Hong Kong’s biggest carrier, started having
a greater balance between outbound and inbound cargo in the
fourth quarter of 2009, Chief Operating Officer  John Slosar  said.  
 “Traditionally, the flights going out would be absolutely
full because of China exports, but flights coming back would not
so full,” Slosar said.  
 The carrier is flying 100 tons of lobster and 150 tons of
grouper to China and Hong Kong every month from Australia and
Indonesia. It increased shipments of sashimi-grade fish to the
nation from Tokyo by 60 percent to 80 tons in the first four
months, said  Vivian Lo , the carrier’s cargo sales and marketing
manager.  
 Stronger Yuan  
 “China’s emergence as the world’s biggest consumer will
resolve the issue of direction imbalance at airlines,” said  Chi Chang Hoon , president of Korean Air. “China consumer goods
import demand should spur cargo shipment from Europe and the U.S.
in the long term.”  
 Cathay Pacific  rose 2.5 percent to close at HK$17.14 in
Hong Kong trading, boosting its  climb  this year to 18 percent,
compared with a 3.6 percent slide in the benchmark Hang Seng
Index. Korean Air declined 0.7 percent to 73,500 won.  
 K. Ajith , a Singapore-based analyst at UOB-Kay Hian
Research Pte., said the current increase in luxury-goods imports
may not last as China phases out economic stimulus measures to
prevent the economy from overheating.  
 “The pace will moderate in the second half,” Ajith said.
“With the pull-back of stimulus packages, it remains to be seen
whether this growth can be sustained.”  
 Still, a stronger yuan against foreign currencies may
continue to drive demand after China’s central bank ended a two-
year peg to the dollar last month. The yuan’s 12-month non-
deliverable forwards gained 0.1 percent to 6.6855 per dollar on
July 27 in Hong Kong, reflecting bets the currency will
strengthen 1.4 percent from the spot rate of 6.7786, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Faberge, Ferragamo  
 “Should the Chinese renminbi continue to strengthen
against the U.S. dollar and euro, the Chinese middle class will
be more able to afford Western imports,” said Steven Wong, vice
president for supply chain operations at UPS’s China unit.  
 China air cargo volume for the Atlanta-based company grew
by high double-digits in the first quarter, showing a return to
pre-recession levels, Wong said without providing a specific
figure.  
 Faberge , the jeweler that made gem-encrusted oversized eggs
for Russia’s czars, may win customers in China thanks to the
trend of a rising yuan and declining euro, along with a growing
taste for the arts and exclusive service, Chief Executive
Officer  Mark Dunhill  said.  
 Salvatore Ferragamo  is adding stores in China and shipping
more products to the country by air than sea shipment this year,
Chief Executive Officer  Michele Norsa  said. The company may open
as many as eight new outlets in the nation next year after
adding 35 by the end of this year since 2008.  
 City’super opened its first store in Shanghai in May.  
 “Consumers in Shanghai are very curious to try out new
imported food,” said Thomas Woo, president of the local outlet.
“They are getting used to shopping expensive fruits, olive oil,
red wine and sake as gifts.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Wendy Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 wleung12@bloomberg.net ;
 Chan Sue Ling  in Singapore at 
 slchan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     John Slosar, chief operating officer of Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd., speaks during news conference in Hong Kong. Photographer: Jerome Favre/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
