-- Chrysler, WaMu, Texas Rangers, Visteon, Magic Brands, Tribune: Bankruptcy
-- Bill Rochelle
-- 2010-07-28T12:24:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/chrysler-wamu-texas-rangers-visteon-magic-brands-tribune-bankruptcy.html

          
          
             Daimler AG  won dismissal yesterday
of a lawsuit begun last August by the trust for unsecured
creditors of Old Chrysler, now formally named Old Carco LLC.  
 Although the bankruptcy judge in New York gave the
creditors permission to file a revision of parts of the
complaint, the creditors may be unable to craft another suit
that will pass muster.  
 The suit alleges that Daimler, old Chrysler’s former owner,
stripped out the automaker’s most valuable assets before the
company was sold in 2007 to Cerberus Capital Management LP.  
 Ordinarily, the plaintiff in a fraudulent transfer suit
contends that multiple transactions must be collapsed into one.
Here, it was the opposite. The creditors wanted the judge to
look only at the restructuring of Chrysler that preceded the
sale to Cerberus.  
 U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Arthur J. Gonzalez , in a 40-page
opinion, said Daimler was correct to collapse the two-stage
transaction. Gonzalez said that the “deal documents themselves
make clear that the transaction is integrated.”  
 By not collapsing the two transactions, the judge said the
creditors made a mistake by ignoring “billions of dollars that
flowed” into the carmaker from the sale to Cerberus. Gonzalez
mentioned how Cerberus provided “billions of dollars of fresh
capital” plus $12 billion in borrowing capacity.  
 Gonzalez concluded that the creditors’ complaint was
fatally defective because it “does not include, or even
reference, the significant value” in the overall transaction.
The judge gave the creditors the right to amend the counts in
the complaint related to a so-called constructive fraud “to
account for all of the elements of value that were received.”  
 When the new complaint properly accounts for everything old
Chrysler received, Daimler will argue that the suit must be
dismissed again because there could have been no fraud since the
automaker was solvent.  
 Gonzalez permanently dismissed a count in the complaint
related to the repayment of existing debt. He said there could
be no fraud because repayment of debt is valid consideration.  
 Gonzalez also permanently dismissed counts in the complaint
alleging actual fraud. He said that the creditors had more than
enough time to conduct discovery and still were unable to lay
out facts with specificity showing actual fraud.  
 Old Chrysler confirmed a liquidating Chapter 11 plan in
April. The confirmed plan gave nothing to unsecured creditors
aside from proceeds, if any, from the Daimler suit, and then
only if the recovery exceeds $25 million. To read about the
plan, click here to see the April 21 Bloomberg bankruptcy
report.  
 After filing under Chapter 11 on April 30, 2009, old
Chrysler sold the business in June 2009 to the new company 20
percent-owned by Italy’s  Fiat SpA .  
 The petition listed assets of $39.3 billion and debt
totaling $55.2 billion. A trust to provide health benefits for
Chrysler workers owns 55 percent of new Chrysler. The U.S.
government owns 8 percent of the stock while Canadian
governmental units have 2 percent.  
 The case is In re Old Carco LLC, 09-50002, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 Updates  
 Tribune Bond Prices Rise After Examiner’s Report Released  
 The  Tribune Co.  examiner’s report pushed up prices on some
of the newspaper publisher’s bonds sold before the 2007
leveraged buyout.  
 The Tribune Co. 4.875 percent senior secured bonds of
August 2010 traded yesterday at 30.75 cents on the dollar, up 34
percent from the previous day. Times Mirror Co.’s 7.5 percent
senior secured bonds due in 2023 traded at 30.45 cents, a gain
of 19 percent from July 14.  
 The examiner’s report said there is some likelihood that a
court would rule that debt issued in the final step of the
leveraged buyout in December 2007 could be attacked successfully
as a constructively fraudulent transfer. Bonds issued earlier
would benefit in bankruptcy, thus explaining the price spike.  
 Even before yesterday’s improvement in price, those who
bought the bonds last year already banked a substantial profit.
The 4.875 percent bonds could have been purchased on Feb. 26,
2009, for less than 3 cents on the dollar. A day later, the 7.5
percent Times Mirror bonds traded at 0.7 cent.  
 The examiner issued a report on the evening of July 26
evaluating the strength of arguments for and against the
fraudulent transfer claims. For a summary of some of his
conclusions, click here for the July 27 Bloomberg bankruptcy
report.  
 Tribune reached an agreement with the official creditors’
committee and two unions by reducing the management bonus
program for 2010. A hearing for approval of the revised bonus
pool is set for Aug. 9. Tribune first sought approval of the
bonuses by filing a motion in May.  
 Tribune currently has a confirmation hearing scheduled to
begin on Aug. 30 for approval of a Chapter 11 plan that would
settle claims that the $13.7 billion leveraged buyout led by  Sam Zell  contained fraudulent transfers. The plan is opposed by
holders of $3.6 billion in pre-LBO debt who announced their
opposition even before the settlement was formally disclosed.
For details of the plan, the proposed settlement, and the
parties’ arguments, click here for the April 13 Bloomberg
bankruptcy report.  
 Tribune is the second-largest newspaper publisher in the
U.S. It listed $13 billion in debt for borrowed money and assets
of $7.6 billion in the Chapter 11 reorganization begun in
December 2008. It owns the Chicago Tribune, Los Angeles Times,
six other newspapers and 23 television stations.  
 The case is In re Tribune Co., 08-13141, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Joshua Hochberg Named as Washington Mutual Examiner  
 Joshua Hochberg , a former head of the Justice Department
fraud unit, was named to be the examiner for holding company
 Washington Mutual Inc .  
 He is to file a preliminary report by Sept. 7 on the merits
of a proposed settlement with the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. and  JPMorgan Chase & Co .  
 Hochberg is a lawyer with  McKenna Long & Aldridge LLP  in
Washington. He served as examiner for  Refco Inc. , whose chief
executive officer was given a 16-year prison sentence. More
recently, he was the examiner for DBSI Inc., where he
investigated transactions between the company, affiliates not in
bankruptcy, and insiders. DBSI was a seller and servicer of
fractional interests in commercial real estate.  
 WaMu’s proposed reorganization plan would implement the
settlement that Hochberg will investigate. The hearing for
approval of the disclosure statement explaining the plan and the
settlement is currently set for Sept. 7.  
 If creditors eventually vote in favor of the plan and it’s
confirmed by the bankruptcy judge, WaMu would distribute more
than $7 billion to creditors. To read about the settlement,
click here for the May 24 Bloomberg bankruptcy report. Click
here to read the May 18 Bloomberg bankruptcy report for a
summary of WaMu’s plan.  
 Shareholders and bank bondholders are opposed to the
settlement. They believe WaMu and the FDIC are giving up too
cheaply and would prefer having lawsuits continue against
JPMorgan.  
 The WaMu holding company filed under Chapter 11 in
September 2008, one day after the bank subsidiary was taken
over. The bank was the sixth-largest depository and credit-card
issuer in the U.S. and the largest bank failure in the country’s
history. The holding company filed formal lists of assets and
debt showing property with a total value of $4.49 billion
against liabilities of $7.83 billion.  
 The holding company Chapter 11 case is Washington Mutual
Inc., 08-12229, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  
 Rangers May be Sold Without Confirming Chapter 11 Plan  
 The  Texas Rangers  baseball club, to comply with a ruling
from the bankruptcy judge, filed papers taking care of
procedural details so the winner of the auction on Aug. 4 can
buy the team without at the same time having the team’s Chapter
11 plan confirmed.  
 The examiner for the team’s two partnership owners wanted
the ability to sell the team without at the same time confirming
a Chapter 11 plan. The examiner believed that confirming a plan
would foreclose the opportunity to file suits aimed at
recovering fraudulent transfers that he alleges were made in the
day or two before bankruptcy.  
 Bids for the team are due on Aug. 3. The judge will decide
at the Aug. 4 hearing after the auction whether the winning
bidder can complete the sale standing alone or through plan
confirmation.  
 The Rangers filed under Chapter 11 on May 24 with a
contract selling the team to a group including current team
President  Nolan Ryan  and sports lawyer  Chuck Greenberg . The
buyers later increased the price to $306.7 million cash. Secured
lenders, owed $525 million not including interest, would recover
$256 million, according to the team’s disclosure statement based
on the original contract for $304 million.  
 The Rangers moved to Texas from Washington in 1972. The
team defaulted on payments owing to the lenders in March 2009.
Michael “Buzz” Rochelle, a brother of Bloomberg reporter  Bill Rochelle , is a lawyer for an agent for the lenders. The
partnership that owns the team is Texas Rangers Baseball
Partners.  
 The case is In re Texas Rangers Baseball Partners, 10-
43400, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Texas (Fort
Worth).  
 Sea Launch Says Reorganization Plan Confirmed  
 Sea Launch Co. , a provider of heavy-lift satellite launch
services, succeeded in having the bankruptcy judge in New York
approve the reorganization plan at a confirmation hearing
yesterday, the company said in a  statement  on its website. The
formal confirmation order is yet to appear on the formal court
docket.  
 The plan called for Russia’s  S.P. Korolev Rocket & Space
Corp. Energia  to acquire 85 percent or more of the stock. The
plan is financed by a $140 million equity commitment and $200
million in debt financing.  
 Unsecured customers and suppliers owed some $120 million
are to see recovery of about 17.5 percent, the disclosure
statement said.  
 Investors  Boeing Co . and Norway’s Aker Maritime Finance AS
reached a settlement of their claims in June after mediation.
Between them, they are to get 5 percent of the stock for the
estimated $1.76 billion they are owed.  
 Sea Launch filed for Chapter 11 reorganization in June 2009
to stop attempts by Hughes Network Systems LLC to collect a $52
million arbitration award in connection with a canceled launch
contract following a failed launching in 2007.  
 Sea Launch was formed by an affiliate of Chicago-based
Boeing along with industry investors from Norway, Russia and
Ukraine. At the outset of the Chapter 11 case, debt included
$476 million owing on several loan agreements plus $761 million
to investors Boeing and Aker. In addition, investors were owed
$119 million resulting from cost overruns in the late 1990s.  
 Most of the company’s launches are made from a semi-
submersible platform stationed at the equator.  
 The case is Sea Launch Co. LLC, 09-12153, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Old GM Settles Class Suit on Defective Parking Brake  
 Old  General Motors Corp . agreed to settle a pre-bankruptcy
class-action lawsuit based on an allegedly defective parking
brake in some GM cars and trucks built between 1999 and 2002. If
approved, the class will have an approved unsecured claim of $12
million.  
 The suit began in 2005 and later was certified as a class
action by a state court in Arkansas. After GM’s bankruptcy, the
class plaintiff filed a claim on behalf of the class for almost
$1.5 billion.  
 GM had the case switched from the Arkansas state court to
bankruptcy court. The settlement ensued. The plaintiffs believe
there are 4 million class members.  
 Old GM sold the core business to new GM and in return
received 10 percent of the stock of the new company plus
warrants for 15 percent. The warrants will be worth something if
the new company is profitable enough to raise the company’s
value to specified levels. New GM is 60.8 percent-owned by the
U.S. government.  
 Old GM began the largest manufacturing reorganization in
history by filing under Chapter 11 on June 1, 2009. The sale was
completed on July 10, 2009. GM listed assets of $82.3 billion
against debt totaling $172.8 billion.  
 The case is In re Motors Liquidation Co., 09-50026, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 Visteon Should Reinstate Retiree Benefits, Union Says  
 Auto-parts maker  Visteon Corp . should be compelled to
reinstate health benefits for retirees, the Communications
Workers union said in a motion filed last week. The motion is
scheduled for a hearing in bankruptcy court on Aug. 10.  
 Retirees won a victory when the U.S. Court of Appeals in
Philadelphia ruled on July 13 that Visteon didn’t have the
unilateral right to terminate health and life insurance benefits
for retirees without complying with procedures specified in
bankruptcy law.  
 The ruling affects 8,000 retirees, the circuit court’s
opinion said. The annual cost for the retiree medical benefits
is $31 million, the union’s motion said.  
 Where Visteon says it needs three months to reinstate
coverage, the union is asking the judge to force the company to
move more quickly. To read about the ruling on retiree health
benefits and the applicability to other bankruptcy
reorganizations, click here for the July 14 Bloomberg bankruptcy
report.  
 Visteon is currently scheduled for a 10-day plan
confirmation hearing to begin Sept. 28. Shareholders and some
creditors are opposed to the plan, and a group of trade
suppliers contend they have enough “no” votes to block
approval by the unsecured creditor class.  
 For details on Visteon’s plan, click here for the June 15
Bloomberg bankruptcy report. For a summary of the positions by
various parties before the judge approved the disclosure
statement, click here for the May 25 Bloomberg bankruptcy
report.  
 Visteon filed for reorganization in May 2009, listing
assets of $4.6 billion against debt totaling $5.3 billion. Sales
in 2008 were $9.5 billion, including $3.1 billion to  Ford Motor
Co .  
 Visteon was spun off from Ford in 2000. Van Buren Township,
Michigan-based Visteon at the outset owed $2.7 billion for
borrowed money, including $1.5 billion on a secured term loan,
$862 million on unsecured bonds, and $214 million on other debt
obligations.  
 The case is In re Visteon Corp., 09-11786, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Magic Brands Finishes Sale to Luby’s Restaurant Chain  
 Magic Brands LLC completed the sale of the  Fuddruckers 
stores and franchise business to restaurant operator  Luby’s Inc. 
for $63.5 million. The bankruptcy court approved the sale on
June 24.  
 Kelley Drye & Warren LLP , attorneys for the official
creditors’ committee, said that the payment of $61 million to
the bankruptcy estate should result in “substantial recoveries
for unsecured creditors.” Magic Brands previously said the sale
“could” result in full payment for unsecured creditors.  
 Houston-based Luby’s has 96 restaurants, mostly in Texas.  
 After closing stores, Austin, Texas-based Magic Brands had
62 company-owned Fuddruckers locations operating in 11 states.
It also owns the  Koo Koo Roo  restaurant brand, with 3 stores in
California. The petition said assets are less than $10 million
while debt is less than $50 million.  
 The Koo Koo Roo stores are in bankruptcy a second time.
Once owned by Prandium Inc., they were sold to Magic Brands
through Chapter 11 in 2004. The 135 Fuddruckers stores in 32
states owned by franchisees aren’t in the bankruptcy.  
 The case is In re Magic Brands LLC, 10-11310, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Inmate Moves to Intervene in Another Reorganization  
 Garlock Sealing Technologies LLC, a unit of  EnPro
Industries Inc. , is the newest target of Jonathan Lee Riches, an
inmate at the federal penitentiary in Lexington, Kentucky.  
 This time joined by 11 other inmates, Riches filed a motion
to intervene in a lawsuit where Garlock is seeking protection
from asbestos lawsuits. Riches said in his hand-written court
paper that one of the doctors in the Federal Medical Center in
Lexington compelled him to “clean and sweep the steps on the
Veritas unit in which Mr. Riches got sick from asbestos.”  
 Riches says that he “suffers from numerous health related
issues.”  
 The bankruptcy judge in North Carolina denied Riches’s
intervention motion three days after it was filed. The judge
said the motion hadn’t been properly served on parties in the
case.  
 Riches, who then claimed he was also known as Bernard
Madoff, previously appeared in the Bloomberg bankruptcy report
when he appealed denial of his motion to intervene in the
reorganization of  Pilgrim’s Pride Corp.  In denying a motion to
intervene in the liquidation of Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities Inc., U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton R. Lifland  said
that Riches filed more than 1,000 lawsuits in federal district
courts.  
 Riches’s release date is March 2012, according to the
Federal Bureau of Prisons website.  
 Garlock, a Palmyra, New York-based gasket maker, filed
under Chapter 11 in early June to deal with the 100,000 asbestos
claims.  
 The case is In re Garlock Sealing Technologies LLC, 10-
31607, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Western District of North Carolina
(Charlotte).  
 New Filings  
 Ice Cream Producer Vitafreze Files in Sacramento  
 Vitafreze Frozen Confections Inc. and affiliates Deluxe Ice
Cream Co. and Matterhorn Group Inc. filed Chapter 11 petitions
on July 26 in Sacramento, California, saying an expanded product
line, cool weather and capital expenses resulted in a “cash
crunch.”  
 The companies owe $10.6 million to secured lender  Key Bank
NA . The two primary equity holders are Pacific Mezzanine Fund LP
and CC&B Holdings Inc. Formed in 2004, Vitafreze was designed to
be a “vehicle to roll up frozen novelty manufacturing companies
in the Western U.S.”  
 The company has plants in Sacramento and Salem, Oregon.  
 A court paper says the assets are on the books for $24.25
million.  
 The case is In re Vitafreze Frozen Confections Inc., 10-
39664, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of California
(Sacramento).  
 Artecity Miami Beach Condo Files for Loan Access  
 Artecity Management LLC, the developer of a partly
completed 202-unit condominium in Miami Beach, filed a bare-
bones Chapter 11 petition on July 26 in Miami.  
 Although little was on file in the bankruptcy court aside
from the printed form petition and a list of creditors, the
company issued a press release explaining that Chapter 11 will
be used to complete construction with a $2.7 million loan
provided by some of the existing investors.  
 By late yesterday afternoon, there was no motion on file to
approve financing.  
 The lender, an affiliate of Starwood Capital Group LLC, was
foreclosing, according to the statement. Greenwich, Connecticut-
based Starwood purchased the loan from a failed bank, Artecity
said.  
 The new loan will be used to complete construction on 93
units that are already 95 percent complete, Artecity said in the
statement.  
 The case is In re Artecity Management LLC, 10-31406, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District Florida (Miami).  
 Watch List  
 Great Atlantic May Be Illiquid in Near Term, S&P Says  
 Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Co . “may be illiquid at some
point in the near term,” Standard & Poor’s said yesterday while
issuing a second downgrade in five weeks.  
 The corporate rating is now CCC, down another notch. The
second-lien notes are likewise CCC, with a prediction that
holders won’t recover more than 50 percent after default.
Unsecured debt now has a CC rating couple with a projection that
the recovery in default won’t exceed 10 percent.  
 S&P was prompted to downgrade again by the $62.6 million
operating loss in the quarter ended June 19 on sales of $2.57
billion. The net loss in the period was $122.6 million.
Comparable-store sales declined 7.2 percent in the quarter.  
 Although food retailers generally have been under pressure,
S&P said that the performance of A&P “has generally been worse
than industry averages.” Cash from operations isn’t covering
 interest expenses  and capital expenditures. A&P has its third
chief executive officer in 12 months.  
 A&P’s hurdles include $165 million in convertible debt that
 matures  in 2011, S&P said. In 2012, maturities are over $900
million including bonds, a term loan and revolving credit,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 In the June downgrade, S&P’s stated concerns included
multiemployer pension debt, “limited free cash flow generation,
and geographic concentration.”  
 A&P reported a $876 million net loss and an $802 million
loss from continuing operations for the fiscal year ended in
February, on sales of $8.81 billion. The loss from operations in
the year was $600.6 million.  
 The unaudited balance sheet was upside down on June 19,
with total assets of $2.68 billion and total liabilities of
$3.20 billion.  
 Montvale, New Jersey-based A&P had 429 stores in June,
mostly in New York, New Jersey and Pennsylvania.  
 Daily Podcast  
 Tribune Examiner’s Report May Slow Plan Approval: Audio  
 By being given the task of partially adjudicating disputes,
the report by the examiner for  Tribune Co.  may end up slowing
the publisher’s ability to confirm a Chapter 11 plan. For a
discussion of the examiner’s report and related issues, click
here for the latest bankruptcy podcast on the Bloomberg terminal
and Bloomberglaw.com.  
 Briefly Noted  
 Fulcrum Credit Lobbies for Votes Against Visteon Plan  
 Fulcrum Credit Partners LLC , which purchased claims of
trade suppliers, is urging unsecured creditors to vote against
the Chapter 11 plan of auto-parts maker  Visteon Corp . To read
Bloomberg coverage, click here.  
 The confirmation hearing for approval of Visteon’s
reorganization plan is scheduled to begin Sept. 28. The judge
set aside 10 days given the degree of opposition expected. In
addition to shareholders and some creditors who are opposed, a
group of trade suppliers say they have enough “no” votes to
block approval by the unsecured creditor class. For details of
Visteon’s plan, click here for the June 15 Bloomberg bankruptcy
report. For a summary of the positions by various parties before
the judge approved the disclosure statement, click here for the
May 25 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  
 Visteon filed for reorganization in May 2009, listing
assets of $4.6 billion against debt totaling $5.3 billion. Sales
in 2008 were $9.5 billion, including $3.1 billion to  Ford Motor
Co . Visteon was spun off from Ford in 2000. Van Buren Township,
Michigan-based Visteon at the outset owed $2.7 billion for
borrowed money, including $1.5 billion on a secured term loan,
$862 million on unsecured bonds, and $214 million on other debt
obligations.  
 The case is In re Visteon Corp., 09-11786, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Nexity Financial Sets August 27 Confirmation Hearing  
 Nexity Financial Corp. , self-described as a leading
provider of capital and support services for community banks,
was granted its request when the bankruptcy judge scheduled an
Aug. 27 hearing for approval of the reorganization plan. Before
the Chapter 11 filing on July 22, the plan had been accepted by
holders of 96 percent of the $22 million in trust preferred
securities who voted on the plan. To confirm the plan, the judge
must also find at the Aug. 27 hearing that the pre-bankruptcy
disclosure statement contained adequate information.  
 For details of the plan and Nexity’s debt structure, click
here for the July 23 Bloomberg bankruptcy report. Birmingham,
Alabama-based Nexity has a bank subsidiary, Nexity Bank,
operating under a cease-and-desist order issued by regulators.  
 The case is In re Nexity Financial Corp., 10-12293, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Crucible Has Approval for Environmental Settlement  
 Crucible Materials Corp ., a steelmaker for the auto and
aerospace industries, received approval from the bankruptcy
judge on July 26 for a settlement reducing claims of the New
York State Department of Environmental Conservation by about 94
percent. On claims originally filed for $21 million,
environmental authorities will have approved unsecured claims
totaling $1.18 million.  
 The confirmation hearing for approval of Crucible’s Chapter
11 plan is currently scheduled for Aug. 9. Crucible generated
$14.4 million from four asset sales after secured lenders were
fully paid on $64.5 million in claims outstanding at the outset
of bankruptcy. When the disclosure statement was filed, Crucible
had $25.2 million in cash on hand. The disclosure statement says
that unsecured claims against Crucible Materials may be as much
as $400 million while unsecured claims against Crucible
Development Corp. might be $300 million. Crucible sold most of
the assets to three buyers in September for $52 million and sold
the remainder in January for $13.2 million.  
 Crucible filed under Chapter 11 in May 2009, listing assets
of $163 million against $130 million in debt. Syracuse, New
York-based Crucible is owned by its 1,000 employees and went
into bankruptcy with two plants and 12 regional service centers.  
 The case is In re Crucible Materials Corp., 09-11582, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Downgrades  
 One Communications Lowered Again, Now CCC+ by S&P  
 One Communications Corp. , a competitive local exchange
carrier, received a second downgrade in three months from
Standard & Poor’s. The corporate peg went down another click
yesterday to CCC+.  
 S&P cited bank loan covenants which tighten in March. The
company negotiated a covenant waiver good through the end of
this year.  
 Compared with last year, revenue and earnings before taxes,
depreciation and amortization declined in the first quarter by
11 percent and 28 percent, respectively. S&P said it’s
“uncertain” whether One Communications can refinance the
revolving credit that matures in 2011.  
 Between the $30 million revolving credit and term loan,
there are $484 million in maturities next year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 S&P was influenced by litigation where  Verizon
Communications Inc . is claiming it was overcharged on access
billing by predecessor Choice Communications for the period
April 2003 to September 2005.  
 One Communications is based in Burlington, Massachusetts.  
 Texas Industries Downgraded Again by Moody’s  
 Cement and concrete supplier  Texas Industries Inc ., which
generates 80 percent of its income in Texas, received a second
downgrade in six months from Moody’s Investors Service when the
corporate peg slipped another notch yesterday to B3.  
 Moody’s based its action on “poor end market demand”
coupled with “declining prices” and private spending that
remains “depressed.”  
 On completion of a refinancing of $550 million in bonds
that otherwise would have been due in 2013, Texas Industries’
only  maturity  is a $200 million revolving credit that’s up in
2012.  
 Dallas-based Texas Industries had a $38.9 million net loss
for the fiscal year ended May 31 on sales of $621.1 million.
Revenue in the year was 26 percent less than in prior fiscal
years.  
 The new Moody’s rating is one level below the ding issued
in March by Standard & Poor’s.  
 The stock closed yesterday at $34.20, down 76 cents in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The closing high during
the past three years was $84.04 on Aug. 8, 2007. The three-year
low was $13 on March 9, 2009.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Rochelle  in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        