-- Citigroup May Move Traders to Hedge Funds for Volcker Rule
-- Bradley Keoun
-- 2010-07-28T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/citigroup-may-move-prop-traders-to-hedge-funds-to-comply-with-volcker-rule.html

          
          
             Citigroup Inc.  may move a team of
proprietary traders into its hedge-fund unit, one of at least
three alternatives the U.S. bank is studying to comply with the
Dodd-Frank Act, people briefed on the matter said.  
 Traders in the Citi Principal Strategies unit, led by
 Sutesh Sharma , would be reassigned to  Citi Capital Advisors ,
which mostly oversees money for outside investors, said the
people, speaking anonymously because the talks are preliminary.
The bank would set up the traders as hedge-fund managers and
seed their funds, then raise money from outside investors to
redeem its stakes, the people said.  
 “This may be a way of keeping a high-margin capital-
markets business in the fold, within the language of the law,”
said  David Hendler , a senior analyst at New York-based research
firm CreditSights Inc. “They would be transforming it from an-
interest-plus-capital-gain business into a fee business.”  
 Citigroup and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  are among U.S. firms
grappling with provisions in the law signed last week requiring
banks to stop using their own money to wager on securities and
markets. The changes were advocated by former Federal Reserve
Chairman  Paul Volcker , who said banks supported by federal
deposit insurance shouldn’t be allowed to  speculate .  
 Fraction of Revenue  
 Many banks say proprietary trading is a fraction of their
total business and that most trades are done on behalf of
customers. Such trading accounted for about 2 percent of New
York-based  Citigroup’s  total 2009 revenue, or about $1.6
billion, a person close to the bank said in May. New York-based
Goldman Sachs has said it gets about 10 percent of its revenue
from proprietary trading.  
 The traders make money from returns on the stocks and bonds
they buy. Hedge funds do so by charging investors fees.  
 Under another scenario considered by Citigroup, members of
the Principal Strategies team would be distributed across the
bank’s main client-facing trading operations based on their
specialties, the people said. For example, proprietary traders
who specialize in stocks in specific industries would join the
single-stock trading team, one of the people said.  
 Danielle Romero-Apsilos , a Citigroup spokeswoman, declined
to comment.  
 Citigroup’s trading chief,  James Forese , is among
executives trying to gauge whether proprietary traders, many of
whom came from hedge funds and enjoy their independence from
client duties, would be willing to return to the main trading
desks, the people said.  
 Dorfman, O’Brien  
 The executives are also evaluating whether the proprietary
traders have strong enough records to entice outside investors,
the people said. Citigroup would need the outside money to
redeem its stakes because the Volcker rule prohibits banks from
holding more than 3 percent of total investor contributions in
any given hedge fund.  
 Sharma, who’s based in London, has discussed options with
 Jonathan Dorfman  and  James O’Brien , who co-head the Citi Capital
Advisors unit, one person said. Citi Capital Advisors oversees
about $14 billion.  
 Traders within Principal Strategies have been briefed on
the options, another person said. They include members of a
stock-trading unit known as the Long-Short Equity Group. Earlier
this year, the unit’s former leader,  Matt Carpenter , and a dozen
proprietary traders quit rather than wait for the Volcker rule-
mandated changes.  
 In 2007, Goldman Sachs started a hedge fund with about half
of the members of its Goldman Sachs Principal Strategies team,
which trades stocks with the firm’s own money. That fund,
Goldman Sachs Investment Partners investors, remains with the
bank and is housed in the money-management division. Some
traders who stayed in the principal-strategies unit, including
 Pierre-Henri Flamand  and  Ali Hedayat , left Goldman Sachs earlier
this year.  
 Operations Under Review  
 Lucas van Praag , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs in New York,
declined to comment on whether the firm plans to turn its prop
traders into hedge-fund managers.  
 “Given the changes coming to financial regulation, we are
as you would expect reviewing those operations likely to be
affected,” van Praag said.  
 The Dodd-Frank law allows banks at least four years to
bring their proprietary trading into compliance, with a
potential extension of as many as three years, according to a
timeline prepared by Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP, Citigroup’s lead
outside law firm.  
 While the extensions might push full compliance to 2017,
giving the banks time to evaluate options, Citigroup wants to
settle its plans for the Citi Principal Strategies unit before
traders get nervous and look elsewhere for employment, the
people said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bradley Keoun  in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Paul Volcker, former chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve, testifies at a Senate Banking Committee hearing in Washington. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 28 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Jon Erlichman reports on the latest breaking news and top stories in today's Business Briefs. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
