-- Commercial Real Estate Bonds Entice Goldman as Ford Sells: Credit Markets
-- Sarah Mulholland
-- 2010-07-28T22:42:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/commercial-real-estate-bonds-entice-goldman-as-ford-sells-credit-markets.html

          
          
             Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
Citigroup Inc. are attempting to sell the fourth offering of
securities backed by commercial mortgages this year as investor
sentiment rises toward everything from company bonds to loans.  
 The extra yield that investors demand to own top-rated
 securities  backed by commercial mortgages rather than Treasuries
fell 4 basis points yesterday to 281 basis points, or 2.81
percentage points, the narrowest in two months, according to a
Barclays Plc index.  Ford Motor Co.  sold $1.25 billion of notes
five days after saying it plans to regain its investment-grade
ranking. Loan  prices  reached the highest since May 20.  
 While the Federal Reserve warned today that commercial real
estate dragged down the U.S. economy in the past two months,
bond investors say growth is strong enough for borrowers to meet
debt payments. U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spreads narrowed
to a three-month low, in another indicator investors are willing
to take on more risk.  
 “There’s more appetite for risk across the board,” said
 Dan Castro , head of structured finance analytics and strategy at
broker-dealer BTIG LLC in New York. “CMBS is an avenue that’s
going to provide better returns. There are a lot of guys
clamoring for these returns.”  
 The offering from Goldman Sachs and Citigroup consists of
debt payments on 48 mortgages, according to a person familiar
with the transaction. Retail properties account for 78.2 percent
of the deal, said the person, who declined to be identified
because terms aren’t public. A $99.9 million loan for 660
Madison Ave. in midtown Manhattan, home to a Barneys New York
store, is the largest in the pool.  
 Agency Mortgage Debt  
 Spreads on top-rated commercial mortgage bonds, at the
lowest since May 20, are up from 219 basis points on April 16,
according to the BarCap CMBS AAA Super Duper Index. A year ago,
the debt paid a spread of 516 basis points, index data show.  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, yields on Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac mortgage securities that guide U.S. home-loan rates
reached record lows relative to 10-year Treasuries. The cost of
protecting corporate bonds from default in the U.S. rose
following four days of declines.  Nielsen Co. , the television-
audience rating company taken private in a $10.2 billion buyout,
had to revise terms for an agreement to extend $1 billion of
loans after lenders refused to delay debt maturities.  
 Fannie Mae’s current-coupon 30-year fixed-rate  mortgage 
bonds fell to as low as 0.57 percentage point more than 10-year
Treasuries, before rising to 0.65 percentage point as of 5 p.m.
in New York, Bloomberg data show. The gap reached 0.59
percentage point on March 29, two days before the  Fed  ended its
buying of $1.25 trillion of so-called agency mortgage bonds.  
 Credit-Default Swaps  
 The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or speculate on creditworthiness, rose
2.63 basis points to 105.13 basis points as of 5:26 p.m. in New
York, according to Markit Group Ltd. In London, the Markit
iTraxx Europe Index of swaps on 125 companies with investment-
grade ratings, climbed 2.63 to 106.25.  
 Both indexes typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and decline as it improves. Credit-default swaps
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  
 Nielsen increased the interest margin it’s offering to pay
over the London interbank offered rate, a borrowing benchmark,
by an additional 0.5 percentage point to 3.75 percentage points,
according to people familiar with the matter.  
 AT&T, Morgan Stanley  
 The company also cut the duration of the extension by one
year to May 2016. New York-based Nielsen has been trying to
improve its  debt profile  since the 2006 leveraged buyout loaded
its balance sheet with $5.4 billion of loans. Last month,
Nielsen filed to sell as much as $1.75 billion of shares in an
initial public offering.  
 Ford bonds were the most-traded corporate securities by
dealers today, with 193 trades of $1 million or more, Bloomberg
data show. Dallas-based AT&T Inc., the largest U.S. phone
company, was ranked second with 172.  
 Spreads on emerging-market bonds rose 7 basis points to 279
basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. index data,
after ranging from as low as 229 on April 15 to as high as 359
on May 25.  
 One Bryant Park  
 In the last sale of commercial mortgage bonds, Bank of
America Corp. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. sold $650 million of debt
tied to a loan on One Bryant Park, a New York office tower. That
followed a JPMorgan offering two weeks earlier of $716.3 million
of debt, backed by loans to multiple borrowers. Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc sold $309.7 million of bonds in April, the
first issue to pool loans from multiple borrowers since June
2008.  
 Banks arranged $3.4 billion of the securities in all of
last year. Sales tumbled 95 percent to $11.2 billion in 2008
from a record $234 billion in 2007, Bloomberg data show.  
 Activity in commercial real estate, especially
construction, “remained weak, the Fed said today in its Beige
Book business survey. The report underscored the Fed’s view that
the recovery, while still moving forward, is progressing at a
slower pace than earlier in the year.  
 Earnings Beat Estimates  
 The Fed reported improvements in service industries, an
increase in tourism, an expansion of manufacturing and progress
in labor markets. Two of the central bank’s 12 districts
reported the economy “held steady” and two said the pace of
expansion slowed.  
 Earnings  have topped analysts’ estimates at more than 80
percent of companies in the S&P 500 that have reported second-
quarter results so far, Bloomberg data show.  
 The difference between Treasury yields and the rate to
convert from fixed to floating payments narrowed as much as 5.3
basis points to 16 basis points, the smallest since April 29.  
 “A solid tightening of swap spreads is the order of the
day,” said  Ian Lyngen , a government bond strategist at CRT
Capital Group LLC in Stamford, Connecticut. “There’s a lot of
money to be put to work, and spreads are tighter across the
curve.”  
 The difference between the rate to exchange floating- for
fixed-interest payments and Treasury yields for two years, known
as the swap spread, is a measure of investor perception of
credit risk. It serves as a benchmark for investors in many
types of debt, including mortgage-backed and auto-loan
securities.  
 Leveraged Loan Prices  
 The 2-year swap spread dropped 3.8 basis points to 17.44
basis points as of 2:56 p.m. in New York. The 5-year swap spread
was 0.8 basis point lower at 18.44. The 10-year spread fell 1.5
basis points to negative 2.25 basis points.  
 The  Standard & Poor’s/LSTA US Leveraged Loan 100 Index  rose
for a sixth day, climbing 0.29 cent to 89.58 cents on the
dollar. Loans have returned 3.64 percent this year, according to
the index.  
 Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford, last year’s biggest issuer
of high-yield corporate debt, sold the 6.625 percent notes due
in 2017 at a yield of 6.9 percent through its finance unit,
Bloomberg data show.  
 Moody’s Investors Service rates Ford Motor Credit Co.’s
unsecured debt Ba3 and S&P grades the company three steps lower
at B-. High-yield, high-risk, or junk, debt is rated below Baa3
by Moody’s and lower than BBB- by S&P.  
 The second-largest U.S. automaker sold the securities less
than a week after reporting its biggest first-half profit in 12
years and debt reductions aimed at restoring the investment-
grade ratings it lost in 2005.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Mulholland  in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     CIT Group Inc. CEO John Thain, speaks during a television interview in New York. Photographer: Jonathan Fickies/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
