-- ConocoPhillips Second-Quarter Profit Rises as Crude Oil Prices Increase
-- Edward Klump
-- 2010-07-28T12:32:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/conocophillips-second-quarter-profit-rises-as-crude-oil-prices-increase.html

          
          
             ConocoPhillips , the third-largest
U.S. oil producer, said second-quarter net income rose after
gains in crude prices made up for a drop in the value of an
idled German refinery that the company may sell.  
 Profit rose to $4.16 billion, or $2.77 a share, from $859
million, or 57 cents, a year earlier, Houston-based
 ConocoPhillips  said today in a Business Wire statement. The
company said last week that it would record after-tax costs of
$1.1 billion to reflect a drop in the value of its Wilhelmshaven
refinery, which may be sold or converted to a fuel terminal.  
 ConocoPhillips and other oil companies benefited as a
recovering global economy spurred gains in crude prices. New
York oil futures traded 31 percent higher than a year earlier,
averaging $78.05 a barrel. The  company , which is in the middle
of a $10 billion divestiture program, canceled plans to upgrade
the Wilhelmshaven plant and this year pulled out of a refining
project in Saudi Arabia and an Abu Dhabi natural-gas venture.  
 “Although you hate to see them take these big write-offs,
it’s better than throwing good money after bad to try to save
face,” said  Philip Weiss , an analyst at Argus Research in New
York who has a “buy” rating on ConocoPhillips shares and owns
none. “I think that they’re making the right moves.”  
 The earnings statement was issued before the opening of
regular trading on U.S. markets. ConocoPhillips rose 1 cent to
$54.44 yesterday in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
The  stock  has climbed 6.6 percent this year.  
 Exxon, Chevron  
 ConocoPhillips is first among the major U.S. oil companies
to report second-quarter earnings.  Exxon Mobil Corp.  of Irving,
Texas, is scheduled to announce its results tomorrow, and San
Ramon, California-based Chevron Corp. plans to report earnings
July 30.  
 ConocoPhillips  said in March that it plans to cut in half
its 20 percent stake in Russia’s OAO Lukoil in two years. In
June, the company completed the sale of its 9 percent stake in
oil-sands producer Syncrude Canada Ltd. for $4.65 billion.  
 “Their restructuring seems to be proceeding very well,”
said  Brian Youngberg , an analyst at Edward Jones in St. Louis
who has a “buy” rating on ConocoPhillips shares and doesn’t
own any. “They realize they do not have to be as big as  Chevron 
or Exxon Mobil to be an attractive stock to investors.”  
 ConocoPhillips  posted its biggest loss on record in 2008 on
about $34 billion in writedowns of assets that dropped in value.
The company agreed to buy gas producer Burlington Resources Inc.
in 2005, the day before futures prices hit an all-time high.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edward Klump  in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        