-- ConocoPhillips to Sell Lukoil Stake After Posting Profit Gain
-- Edward Klump
-- 2010-07-28T20:06:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/conoco-sells-7-6-lukoil-stake-back-to-russian-explorer-for-3-44-billion.html

          
          
             ConocoPhillips  plans to sell its
entire 20 percent stake in Russia’s OAO Lukoil, valued at about
$9 billion, after gains in crude prices spurred a jump in
second-quarter profit at the third-largest U.S. oil company.  
 Lukoil agreed to buy back 7.6 percent of its stock from
ConocoPhillips for $3.44 billion, according to a statement today
by the Houston-based seller.  ConocoPhillips  said it will sell
its remaining Lukoil interest, about 12.4 percent of the Russian
company’s stock, by the end of next year.  
 Second-quarter net income jumped almost fivefold to $4.16
billion, or $2.77 a share, from $859 million, or 57 cents, a
year earlier,  ConocoPhillips  said. Per-share profit excluding
such items as gains from asset sales and a drop in the value of
an idled German refinery that the company may sell was $1.67, 11
cents higher than the average of 16 analyst  estimates .  
 “ConocoPhillips has been a notorious underperformer, and I
think they’re trying to sort of streamline themselves into a
more lean operation, thereby improving shareholder value,” said
 Robbert Van Batenburg , head of equity research at Louis Capital
Markets in New York.  
 The  company , which is in the middle of a $10 billion asset-
sale program, canceled plans to upgrade its Wilhelmshaven
refinery in Germany and this year pulled out of a refining
project in Saudi Arabia and an Abu Dhabi natural-gas venture.
The Lukoil sale isn’t included in the $10 billion divestiture
target. ConocoPhillips previously said it would sell half of its
stake in  Lukoil , Russia’s largest non-state oil producer.  
 Change in Course  
 The change of plans stems from “the expected business
environment and our stated strategy to enhance returns and
increase distributions,” ConocoPhillips Chief Executive Officer
 Jim Mulva  said in the statement. The company is raising cash to
reduce debt and buy back shares.  
 ConocoPhillips has $7.5 billion invested in its Lukoil
interest and expects sales of the shares and its dividends from
the Russian company to yield almost $10 billion combined, Mulva
told investors today on a conference call.  
 ConocoPhillips was unchanged at $54.44 as of the 4 p.m.
close of New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The  stock 
has climbed 6.9 percent this year.  Lukoil  advanced 3.4 percent
in Moscow.  
 ConocoPhillips has already sold about $400 million of its
Lukoil stock, Mulva said.  Lukoil  said in a separate statement
that it plans to complete its share purchase on Aug. 16. The
U.S. company will sell the rest of its stake on the open market
or to Lukoil.  
 Quick Cash  
 “It’s sort of a quick way to raise some cash, and the
Lukoil interest wasn’t really core to their future strategy,”
said  Matti Teittinen , an analyst at IHS Herold in Boston. “It’s
a surprise, but I think it’s a positive.”  
 Lukoil has a 60-day option to buy back additional equity at
$56 a share, Mulva said.  
 “It is no doubt a positive deal as it removes the overhang
of the stock,” said  Ivan Mazalov , who helps oversee about $4.5
billion at Prosperity Capital Management in Moscow. “They have
always wanted to buy but didn’t want to push up the price as
they were searching for financing.”  
 ConocoPhillips and other oil companies benefited in the
second quarter as a recovering global economy spurred gains in
crude prices. New York oil futures traded 31 percent higher than
a year earlier, averaging $78.05 a barrel. ConocoPhillips also
gained from wider profit margins on gasoline and other refined
fuels, Mulva said.  
 The company said costs recorded to reflect a drop in the
German refinery’s value reduced profit by $1.1 billion.
 ConocoPhillips  said last week that the plant may be sold or
converted to a fuel terminal.  
 Revenue Climbs  
 Second-quarter revenue, including a gain on an asset sale,
rose 39 percent from a year earlier to $50.1 billion,
ConocoPhillips said.  Production  fell 7.4 percent to the
equivalent of 1.73 million barrels of oil a day. The company
said planned maintenance at fields in Norway and Australia
contributed to the output decline.  
 ConocoPhillips is first among the major U.S. oil companies
to report second-quarter earnings.  Exxon Mobil Corp.  of Irving,
Texas, is scheduled to announce its results tomorrow, and San
Ramon, California-based Chevron Corp. plans to report earnings
July 30.  
 ConocoPhillips  in June completed the sale of its 9 percent
stake in oil-sands producer Syncrude Canada Ltd. for $4.65
billion. The company said it expects divestitures this year to
generate $7 billion to $8 billion in proceeds.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edward Klump  in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Lukoil agreed to buy back 7.6 percent of its stock  
                       
                         
                           F. Carter Smith/Bloomberg 
                         
                         ConocoPhillips chief executive officer James Mulva. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     ConocoPhillips chief executive officer James Mulva. Photographer: F. Carter Smith/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
