-- Copper Heads for Fifth Monthly Gain on Shortage Speculation; Zinc Climbs
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-30T08:12:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/copper-futures-in-london-may-extend-slump-after-u-s-confidence-declines.html
Copper climbed, set for a fifth
monthly gain, as positive U.S. consumer spending data and
speculation about a possible shortage outweighed concerns over
government tightening in China. Aluminum and zinc also gained.  The metal for three-month delivery increased as much as 1.2
percent to $8,320 a metric ton on the London Metal Exchange, and
traded at $8,253.50 at 3:42 p.m. in Shanghai. Three-month zinc
added 1.9 percent to $2,117.50 a ton.  “The theme seems to have returned to the supply
shortage,” Li Peiying, an analyst at Essence Futures Co., said
by phone from Beijing. “We might see a rebound in copper,
though may be short lived.”  Copper will rise to more than $11,000 a ton by 2013 because
of shortages, according to researcher GFMS Ltd. The market may
move back into surplus in the first half of next year as
economies slow, before returning to shortage in the following
six months and thereafter, it said in a research note yesterday.  U.S. shoppers spent 6.4 percent more over Thanksgiving
weekend than last year, heartened by the economic rebound, data
provided by the National Retail Federation showed yesterday.
Consumer spending accounts for about 70 percent of the world’s
largest economy’s gross domestic product.  China Concern  In the Chinese physical market, end-user demand has
declined because inventories remain high, while the discount at
which imported metal trades over futures continues to widen, MF
Global Holdings Ltd. said in a report yesterday.  Although copper’s fundamental backdrop remains quite
bullish, “we suspect that prices have likely done too much too
quickly, and would not be surprised to see a re-test of the
recent lows going into yearend,”  Edward Meir , senior commodity
analyst at MF Global,[bn:PRSN=1]  wrote in the report.  []Copper for March delivery in Shanghai rose for a fifth
consecutive month, climbing 0.4 percent to close at 62,660 yuan
($9,396) a ton.  China’s stocks fell, sending the benchmark  Shanghai
Composite  Index toward its first monthly drop since June. It
tumbled as much as 3.8 percent, and closed 1.6 percent lower at
2820.181.  “Rumors of another China rate hike hit stocks first and
then weighed down commodities in the day,” Wang Ning, an
analyst at Xiangyu Futures Co., said by phone from Shanghai.  Rising Inflation  China may see inflation quicken again this month, after
rising food costs drove prices higher in October, making it
“almost certain” that inflation will top 3 percent for the
full year, Sheng Songcheng, former head of the central bank’s
Shenyang branch, wrote in a commentary in the official Financial
News daily today.  The central bank should clearly state that it’s shifting to
a “prudent” monetary policy and there is still room for
further increases in reserve requirement ratios for banks, he
said in the commentary. Sheng is head of the central bank
headquarters’ statistics and analysis department, according to a
bank official, declining to be named due to agency rules.  Aluminum in London rose 0.8 percent to $2,288 a ton, and
lead added 1.7 percent to $2,225 a ton. Nickel advanced 1.2
percent to $22,685 a ton, while tin was unchanged at $23,900 a
ton as of 3:54 p.m. in Shanghai.  -- Helen Sun . Editors: Richard Dobson, Jarrett Banks.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Helen Sun  in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpool4@bloomberg.net  