-- CVS Caremark Lowers Profit Forecast, Citing Economy
-- Carol Wolf
-- 2010-07-28T20:18:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/cvs-caremark-lowers-profit-forecast-for-this-year-citing-slumping-economy.html

          
          
             CVS Caremark Corp. , the largest U.S.
provider of prescription drugs, said profit will fall short of
its previous 2010 forecast, citing the slumping economy.  
 CVS Caremark also announced a 12-year contract from Aetna
Inc. yesterday, mitigating the company’s announcement that sales
at its pharmacy-services unit dropped 9 percent in the  second
quarter . Profit for the period trailed analysts’ estimates.  
 The drug provider cut its  projection  for comparable-store
sales growth as economic woes keep some consumers from seeking
medical treatment, lowering the number of new prescriptions.
That, coupled with increasing legal expenses and a weaker flu
season, led to the reduction in profit forecast, said Chief
Executive Officer  Tom Ryan .  
 “The sluggish economy and high unemployment has affected
the consumer’s ability to visit the doctor,” Ryan, 57, said
today on a conference call. CVS Caremark reduced its same-store
sales outlook to an increase of at least 2 percent from a rise
of at least 3.5 percent previously.  
 Consumers are spending less on drugs as well as non-
discretionary items as they cope with the aftermath of the
recession. Confidence among consumers declined to a five-month
low in July, the Conference Board said yesterday.  
 “Supermarkets and drugstores appear much more challenged
right now than the higher-end consumer retailers,” said  Joel Levington , a New York-based bond analyst with Brookfield
Investments. Unemployment and housing prices remain of concern,
he said.  
 Aetna Impact  
 Earnings excluding some items will be at least $2.68 a
share in 2010, compared with an earlier minimum of $2.77, CVS
Caremark said today. The agreement with  Aetna , which represents
about $9.5 billion in annual drug spending, probably will cut
earnings by as much as 2 cents in 2010 because of costs to
implement it. The deal may begin adding to  profit  in 2011.  
 The shares rose 94 cents, or 3.1 percent, to $31.54 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading . The
Woonsocket, Rhode Island-based company has dropped 2.1 percent
this year.  
 Excluding some items, second-quarter profit was 65 cents a
share. Analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg had estimated profit of 68
cents, on average.  
 Net income fell 7.3 percent to $821 million, or 61 cents a
share, from $886 million, or 61 cents, a year earlier, CVS
Caremark said. Sales declined 3.5 percent to $24 billion. The
company booked about 3 cents a share in costs tied to
anticipated legal settlements last quarter.  
 Pharmacy Benefits  
 CVS Caremark’s pharmacy-benefits unit, which won the Aetna
agreement, negotiates drug prices with manufacturers and
drugstores for corporate and government customers. Participants
can buy drugs through the mail or a network of stores.  
 “We’re laser-focused on using our assets in a meaningful
way to lower costs for plan sponsors,”  Dave Denton , CVS
Caremark’s chief financial officer, said in a telephone
interview.  
 The division faced criticism this year from rival  Walgreen
Co. , which had planned to withdraw from CVS Caremark’s retail
pharmacy network. Walgreen, the largest U.S. drugstore chain,
had said CVS Caremark programs like Maintenance Choice limit
patients’ options for filling prescriptions. The two resolved
their dispute last month.  
 Ties between the Caremark unit and CVS’s retail stores,
brought together in a 2007  merger , are under investigation by
the Federal Trade Commission and at least 24 U.S. states.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carol Wolf  in Washington at 
 cwolf@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A CVS store stands in Houston. Photographer: Aaron M. Sprecher/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
