-- Bowles of U.S. Debt Commission Putting Focus on Government Spending Cuts
-- Brian Faler
-- 2010-07-29T04:00:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/debt-panel-co-chairman-bowles-seeks-u-s-spending-cuts-over-tax-increases.html

          
          
             As much as three-quarters of the
savings President  Barack Obama ’s national debt commission has
been asked to propose ought to come from cuts to
government spending rather than tax increases, panel co-chairman
 Erskine Bowles  said.  
 Bowles, a White House chief of staff under former President
 Bill Clinton , said yesterday that trims to expenditures could
account for two-thirds to three-quarters of the panel’s package
of proposals for reducing the federal budget deficit.  
 “You’ll find some people who think that’s crazy and some
think that’s good or not enough -- people are on all sides of
the issue,” Bowles said after the panel’s monthly public
meeting, its last before Congress leaves for an August recess.  
 He said the panel won’t begin to make “real decisions” on
what to recommend until September. “Nothing’s decided until
everything is decided,” he said.  
 Obama created the panel in February to scour the
government’s budget in search of enough savings to reduce the
 deficit  to 3 percent of the economy by 2015, from the current 10
percent. That will require finding $250 billion in savings in
2015 alone, more than what Obama’s health-care overhaul is
projected to save over an entire decade.  
 The panel’s completed report, due after the November
midterm elections, would have to be approved by 14 of its 18
members to be forwarded to Congress for consideration.  
 Social Security  
 Its work has come under fire from some advocacy groups. The
AFL-CIO, NAACP, National Education Association, Moveon.org and
others are conducting a joint news conference today in
Washington to caution the panel not to suggest cuts to the
Social Security program.  
 The panel has created a trio of working groups to develop
recommendations on taxes, federal programs with mandatory
spending -- such as Social Security -- and the discretionary
portion of the budget that must be approved each year by
Congress. The groups are to come up with a menu of savings
options worth $125 billion each in 2015 from which the
commission could develop its recommendations, Bowles said.  
 The panel is unlikely to adopt all of those proposed cuts,
he said.  
 “If you add up all of our goals it adds up to more than
what we have to get to -- we’re trying to push ourselves,” he
said.  
 The working group heads didn’t provide details today on
what sort of changes they may recommend.  
 Tax Breaks  
 Bowles said the panel is focusing “a lot” of its tax
work on tax expenditures, which are deductions, exemptions and
other breaks used in lieu of direct spending programs. The costs
of such expenditures totaled $1 trillion last year, including
those that allow homeowners to write off mortgage interest
payments and subsidize television and film production.  
 Critics say the breaks add to the deficit by draining
revenue from the Treasury, make the tax code needlessly complex
and are seldom reviewed to assess how well they work. Harvard
University Economist  Martin Feldstein  said in a Wall Street
Journal column last week that reducing such expenditures would
be the single best way to cut the deficit.  
 Bowles expressed optimism the panel would be able to agree
on a plan, saying, “I can tell you we’re making progress.”  
 He also said “some people say it’s a miracle that we can
have Republicans and Democrats meeting together with real comity
for three months and we’re still in the same room, we’re talking
to each other and nobody’s really angry.”  
 The commission’s other co-chairman is former Senator  Alan Simpson , a Wyoming Republican. Its other members include U.S.
lawmakers from both parties.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Faler  in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Erskine Bowles, co-chairman of the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform, speaks during the Peter G. Peterson Foundation fiscal summit in Washington. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
