-- Dendreon's Vaccine for Prostate Cancer Extends Life in Published Study
-- Tom Randall
-- 2010-07-28T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/dendreon-prostate-cancer-drug-extends-life-4-1-months-in-published-study.html

          
          
             Dendreon Corp. ’s prostate cancer
vaccine, Provenge, extended lives by 4.1 months in a study
published in the  New England Journal of Medicine . The data,
released previously, led to the drug’s U.S. approval in April.  
 Provenge is the first drug designed to train the body’s
immune system to fight cancer and is the most effective
treatment for certain patients with advanced prostate tumors,
said  Philip Kantoff , a professor of medicine at Harvard Medical
School and the study’s lead author. Researchers still don’t know
precisely how the vaccine works or who is most likely to
benefit, he said.  
 As many as 100,000 prostate cancer patients are eligible to
receive Provenge, though Dendreon has said it has capacity to
accommodate just 2,000 patients in the first year. Dendreon
shares have increased eightfold since today’s published results
were first presented at a science meeting in April 2009. In the
last three months the shares have tumbled about 40 percent amid
supply shortages and concern over whether U.S. government’s
Medicare program will pay for the $93,000 treatment.  
 “I think we need to better detect how it works and how it
can be made better,” said Harvard’s Kantoff, who is also chief
of solid tumor oncology at the  Dana-Farber Cancer Institute  in
Boston, in a telephone interview. “This is really the first
step in the field of immunotherapy,”  
 Provenge takes a new approach to treating cancer. Doctors
draw blood from the patient’s body and produce a personalized
dose of the vaccine. Results from the study, being published
today, in 512 patients were consistent with two smaller studies
that failed to convince U.S. regulators to approve the drug in
2007, researchers said.  
 Patients in the study had a median survival of 25.8 months
with Provenge, compared with 21.7 months with a placebo. The men
had advanced tumors that had overcome available treatments.  
 Mystery Mechanism  
 Patients who had a strong antibody response to Provenge
were more likely to live longer, indicating a possible signal of
how the drug works, according to the study. However, the drug
didn’t shrink tumors or delay malignancy growth. The lack of a
measurable effect on the cancer remains a mystery and could mean
results were influenced by treatments or patient conditions that
weren’t considered in the study, said Dan Longo, deputy editor
of the journal, in an editorial that that accompanied the study.  
 “By the time the data was presented to the FDA, this was a
pretty mature trial,” said  Robert Dreicer , chair of solid tumor
oncology at the  Cleveland Clinic  in Ohio and an author of the
study, in a phone interview. “We still don’t know any more
about the mechanism.  
 “These issues of cost and availability are going to affect
how rapidly this is going to play into disease management,”
Dreicer said.  
 Dendreon fell $1.47, or 4.2 percent, to $33.39 at 4 p.m.
today in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Randall  in New York at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        