-- Diller's IAC Hits Highest Level Since 2007 as Profit, Sales Top Estimates
-- Brett Pulley
-- 2010-07-28T20:48:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/diller-s-iac-interactivecorp-rises-as-earnings-top-analysts-estimates.html

          
          
             IAC/InterActiveCorp , operator of
Match.com and Ask.com, closed at its highest price in almost
three years after sales and earnings beat analysts’ estimates on
increases to its online dating and search businesses.  
 Second-quarter profit at IAC, the Web-based company built
and controlled by  Barry Diller , was 24 cents a share, on an
adjusted basis, topping the 20-cent average estimate of 15
analysts in a Bloomberg survey. Sales increased 18 percent to
$402.9 million, the New York-based company said in a statement.
That compares with the $383.2 million analysts had projected.  
 The shares jumped $1.05, or 4.4 percent, to $24.78 on the
Nasdaq Stock Market. It was the highest close for the stock
since December 10, 2007, and the biggest increase since March
26, 2009. The stock has advanced 21 percent this year.  
 IAC’s search business, Ask.com, posted $197.2 million in
revenue, an 18 percent increase over the previous year. The
improvement was driven by a jump in search queries on the
question-and-answer-based service. Ask.com this week unveiled a
new version more focused than competing search engines on
answering questions, the company said in an earlier statement.  
 Match.com, excluding the net effect of transactions during
the quarter, had an 8 percent advance in subscriptions, based on
strong domestic growth, the company said. Revenue at Match.com
increased 10 percent to $97 million. During the second quarter,
it reached an agreement to provide personal dating services for
the Yahoo! Web business.  
 The company said it repurchased 6 million common shares at
an average price of $22.82 per share. Diller, in an interview in
June, said that valuations had kept him from doing any large
acquisitions over the past two years, and that he would continue
to use IAC’s cash to buy back stock.  
 On a conference call with investors today, Diller said he
still does not anticipate pursuing anything other than small
“tuck-in” acquisitions.  
 “We don’t see any acquisitions out there of any size,”
Diller said. “Nothing has happened that has gotten our
appetites enlarged.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brett Pulley  in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        