-- Disney Says ABC Entertainment President Steve McPherson Resigns
-- Andy Fixmer
-- 2010-07-28T04:38:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/disney-says-abc-entertainment-president-mcpherson-quits-before-new-season.html

          
          
             Walt Disney Co.  said  Steve McPherson , president of its ABC Entertainment unit, has resigned
less than two months before the network’s new television season
begins.  
 A replacement for McPherson will be named shortly, Burbank,
California-based  Disney  said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  
 ABC is adding six dramas to its schedule starting in
September after “Lost,” the network’s fifth-highest-rated
scripted show, concluded a six-year run in May. The network was
the only major U.S. broadcaster whose total audience declined
last season, and it’s also down among viewers aged 18 to 49, a
group sought by advertisers, according to Nielsen Co.  
 “McPherson has had a couple of bad seasons,”  Brad Adgate ,
director of research at New York-based advertising firm Horizon
Media Inc, said in an interview. “He never got his footing back
after the writers’ strike.”  
 The three-month walkout by the Writers Guild of America
that ended in February 2008 idled scripted shows including
“Desperate Housewives” and “Grey’s Anatomy,” effectively
curtailing the 2007-2008 television season.  
 Paul Lee, head of the ABC Family cable channel, is
replacing McPherson, the Hollywood Reporter said, citing unnamed
company insiders. No one has been hired yet,     ABC spokesman  Kevin Brockman  said in an e-mail.  
 In a statement from his publicist, McPherson said he would
announce plans that include an “entrepreneurial venture in the
spirits business” and an “involvement in a new media
company.”  
 The timing of the change is awkward for Disney, Adgate
said. TV networks are meeting this week with critics in Beverly
Hills, California, to preview their schedules for the season
that starts in September. ABC plans to make its presentation on
Aug. 1.  
 Comedy Block  
 Third among TV networks in prime-time audience, ABC plans
to air new shows including “Body of Proof” starring  Dana Delany  and “Detroit 1-8-7,” about a mock-documentary crew that
follows around homicide detectives. The network also picked up
the comedy “Mr. Sunshine,” featuring  Matthew Perry  as manager
of a San Diego sports arena.  
 McPherson established a block of comedy shows last TV
season on Wednesday nights that includes three returning
programs: “Modern Family,” “Cougar Town” and “The Middle.”  
 The network sold about $2.4 billion in ads ahead of the
season that starts in September for its full-day schedule, with
average prime-time rates rising 8 percent to 9 percent, a person
with knowledge of the matter said on June 9. ABC sold 75 percent
to 80 percent of its inventory, the person said.  
 By comparison NBC, last in prime-time viewers, sold about
$2.5 billion in advertising, with rates rising about 7 percent,
another person said on June 10. The network pre-sold about 70
percent of its prime-time inventory, that person said.  
 ‘High-Pressure Job’  
 “This is a high pressure job where you get results the
next day and millions of dollars are riding on the programming
decisions you make,” Adgate said. “This is historically a very
short-lived position. You’re always in a pressure-cooker.”  
 Disney, the world’s biggest media company, fell 12 cents to
$34.28 yesterday in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading .
The shares have climbed 6.3 percent this year.  
 Unlike its rivals, ABC doesn’t carry National Football
League games, which provide some of TV’s biggest audiences and a
platform to promote new shows, Adgate said. Monday Night
Football airs on Disney’s ESPN cable network.  
 Without football, ABC relies more on entertainment programs
for ratings, Adgate said.  
 “Sporting events have been on an upswing compared with
entertainment shows,” Adgate said. “That’s partly why ESPN is
the crown jewel of television at Disney, not ABC.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andy Fixmer  in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     ABC's Stephen McPherson has resigned. Photographer: Stephen Shugerman/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
