-- EasyJet's New CEO Signals Punctuality Concern; Shares Tumble
-- Steve Rothwell
-- 2010-07-28T15:56:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/easyjet-third-quarter-sales-gain-5-3-profit-target-for-2010-reiterated.html

          
          
             Carolyn McCall ,  EasyJet Plc ’s new
chief executive officer, said flight delays at London’s Gatwick
airport are her most immediate concern after joining Europe’s
 second-biggest discount airline  four weeks ago.  
 EasyJet fell 7.1 percent in London trading, the biggest
drop in 18 months, after McCall said in her first comments as
CEO that she’s “looking at all assumptions” concerning crew
levels and rostering as staff shortages at bases including
Gatwick prompt a decline in service punctuality.  
 McCall, 48, who joined from Guardian Media Group Plc on
July 1, also said she has opened communications with EasyJet
founder  Stelios Haji-Ioannou , who opposes the carrier’s growth
plans, is locked in a legal tussle over its use of the “Easy”
name and has warned he could terminate a license to the brand if
the on-time performance issues aren’t resolved within 90 days.  
 “They can’t afford to be running bad punctuality figures,”
said  Gert Zonneveld , an analyst at Panmure Gordon in London.
“If you fly to busy, primary airports there is a question as to
how that will develop. They have a pretty intensive schedule and
there isn’t much flexibility, so if they suffer disruption it’s
tough to make up for it, and that results in less efficiency.”  
 Zonneveld said McCall also didn’t address strategic
questions and concerns regarding Luton, England-based EasyJet’s
schism with Stelios, who prefers to be known by his first name
and is the airline’s top investor with a 38 percent stake.  
 Cost Cuts, Growth  
 “The company was unwilling to detail progress on some of
the issues with Stelios, the cost-reduction program and the
long-term growth objectives,” said the analyst, who is
retaining his “buy” recommendation on the stock.  
 EasyJet  fell  30.9 pence to 403.6 pence in London, the
steepest decline since Jan. 29, 2009. The stock has  advanced  14
percent this year, boosting the company’s market value to 1.73
billion pounds ($2.7 billion).  
 McCall said lines of communication “are open” with Stelios
as the entrepreneur’s EasyGroup awaits a court ruling over its
questioning of the airline’s right to use the “Easy” name for
revenue-generating activities not directly related to flights.  
 EasyGroup said separately today that complaints received
regarding EasyJet’s punctuality have “increased significantly”
in the past few weeks and that the airline is “performing worse
than Air Zimbabwe,” breaching a brand-license agreement.  
 “They have to fix this, for the sake of the customers and
the shareholders,” Stelios said in a e-mail. EasyGroup added in
a statement that EasyJet must address the delays by Oct. 26 or
risk termination of the license.  
 McCall said the airline has been advised that punctuality
isn’t relevant to the agreement and that it can’t be scrapped.  
 ‘Fresh Eyes’  
 “Our task now is to deliver a period of stability while we
look over the business with fresh eyes,” McCall said on the
call. “The first impression is that the network is strong.”  
 EasyJet’s fleet-expansion strategy, which is also opposed
by Stelios, will be reviewed on an annual basis, she said.  
 McCall said she’s seeking a fix for the delays by November
and will meanwhile focus on early-wave flights, or the first
departures of the day typically used by business travelers, seek
solutions from the owners of Gatwick, where EasyJet is the No. 1
airline, and reschedule services to give a buffer between trips.  
 Sales Gain  
 EasyJet’s sales rose 5.3 percent to 759.2 million pounds in
the third quarter ended June 30 as the carrier targeted markets
outside the U.K. and passenger defections from  British Airways
Plc  during a cabin-crew strike resulted in a 7 million-pound
gain, it said in a statement today.  
 The results were “robust,” given the disruption from a
volcanic eruption in Iceland, which led EasyJet to cancel more
than 7,000 flights and cost 65 million pounds in lost revenue
and refunds, McCall said. With less restrictive flight bans the
cost would have been only 20 million pounds, she said.  
 EasyJet will “explore all options” to recoup losses from
the eruption after the U.K. government said it wouldn’t be
providing compensation, McCall said. Those options include
participating in a class action lawsuit, the CEO said.  
 The airline, which ranks second to  Ryanair Holdings Plc 
among Europe’s discount airlines, remains on course to report a
full-year pretax profit of 100 million pounds to 150 million
pounds, the CEO said. About 64 percent of seats are already sold
for the fourth quarter and per-seat revenue may rise by a
faster-than-expected 2.5 percent for the full year.  
 Air France Boost  
 Air France-KLM Group , Europe’s biggest airline, rose as
much as 4.8 percent in Paris today after saying last night that
resurgent business travel and freight traffic helped it return
to operating profit in the fiscal first quarter, excluding the
effects of the volcanic eruption.  
 Operating profit in the three months ended June 30 was 26
million euros ($34 million) before the 158 million-euro cost of
the ash cloud, versus a 496 million-euro year earlier loss, the
company said. Sales rose 11 percent to 5.72 billion euros and
net income of 736 million euros was positive for the first time
in almost two years after a 1.03 billion-euro gain from the
company’s stake in the Amadeus IT Holding SA booking system.  
 The Paris-based carrier cited its fuel bill and concern
over the economy for setting a “prudent” full-year goal of
breaking even at operating level, excluding the ash costs.  
 Global Traffic  
 International passenger traffic rose almost 12 percent in
June compared with a year earlier, with freight demand surging
27 percent, the International Air Transport Association said
today. Growth in Europe was more sluggish than elsewhere, with
passenger travel advancing 7.8 percent, IATA said.  
 Still, passenger trends at London Heathrow Airport,
Europe’s busiest, are “somewhat encouraging,”  Colin Matthews ,
CEO of owner BAA Ltd., said today on a conference call. The
proportion of travelers starting or finishing their journey in
the U.K. capital increased to 65 percent from 62 percent in the
first half and traffic rose 2.3 percent, adjusted for the impact
of the ash disruption and the strikes at British Airways.  
 At EasyJet, there are no plans to follow yesterday’s
announcement at Germany’s Air Berlin Plc and join a global
alliance, Finance Director  Chris Kennedy  said on the conference
call. The U.K. airline doesn’t consider itself a “hybrid”
between discount and full-service carriers, said the executive,
who also joined July 1, from EMI Music.  
 McCall said EasyJet had previously received approaches to
join an alliance.  
 EasyJet has arranged to sell four remaining Airbus SAS A321
aircraft inherited with the purchase of GB Airways in 2008 back
to the manufacturer or a subsidiary, it said today. The cash
amount will be about equal to the jets’ book value.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Jasper  in London at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net ;
 Steve Rothwell  in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        