-- Euro-Area Banks Tighten Credit Standards on Companies, Consumers, ECB Says
-- Jana Randow
-- 2010-07-28T10:05:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/ecb-says-euro-region-banks-tightened-credit-standards-in-second-quarter.html

          
          
             European banks continued to tighten
credit standards for companies and households in the second
quarter as the sovereign debt crisis impaired their access to
funding, the European Central Bank said.  
 “The downward trend in the net tightening of credit
standards on loans to enterprises, which came to a halt in the
first quarter of 2010, was reversed in the second quarter,
increasing from 3 percent to 11 percent,” the Frankfurt-based
central bank said in its quarterly Bank Lending Survey today.
“Looking forward, euro-area banks anticipate credit standards
on loans to enterprises to tighten somewhat in the third
quarter.”  
 Recent data suggest Europe’s economic recovery may be
stronger than expected, boosting demand for credit. Growth in
the region’s manufacturing and services industries unexpectedly
accelerated in July and business confidence in Germany surged to
a three-year high. At the same time, government spending cuts
implemented in response to the debt crisis may slow growth in
the months to come.  
 “Risks of credit-supply constraints emerging in a number
of euro-zone countries are still high,” said  Luigi Speranza , an
economist at BNP Paribas in London. “This could limit growth
prospects, in line with past experiences following financial
crises.”  
 Loan Growth  
 Loans  to households and companies in Europe grew at the
fastest pace in 20 months in June, a report showed yesterday.
The ECB expects the 16-nation euro-region economy to expand 1
percent this year and 1.2 percent in 2011.  
 “The demand for loans perceived by banks continues to
recover,” the ECB said today. Still, “negative spillover
effects from the sovereign debt crisis appear to have worsened
banks’ ability to obtain funding. Over the next three months,
banks expect that the current difficulties in accessing
wholesale funding will remain, although not to the same extent
as observed in the second quarter of 2010,” the ECB said.  
 In Germany, credit standards for companies were unchanged
in the second quarter from the first after the economic outlook
improved and banks’ liquidity positions remained “good,” the
Bundesbank said in a separate statement. Banks aren’t planning
to adjust their credit standards in the third quarter, the
Frankfurt-based central bank said.  
 No Credit Crunch  
 Demand for loans increased “noticeably” and “banks don’t
share the fear that credit supply will be too restrictive for
the German economy as the recovery continues,” the Bundesbank
said, adding there are no signs of an impending credit crunch.  
 The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision on July 26
agreed to soften some of its proposed capital and liquidity
rules. France and Germany have led efforts to weaken rules
proposed by the committee in December, concerned that their
banks and economies won’t be able to bear the burden of tougher
capital requirements until a recovery takes hold.  
 Bankers including  Deutsche Bank AG  Chief Executive Officer
 Josef Ackermann  have said that the new rules may force banks to
reduce lending, potentially limiting economic growth.  
 “The factors contributing to the reinforced net tightening
of loans to enterprises relate to the deterioration of banks’
own balance sheet situation, particularly as regards their
liquidity position and access to wholesale funding,” the ECB
said. “At the same time, slight improvements in credit risk,
and to some extent in general economic conditions, were
perceived by reporting banks.”  
 The degree of net tightening of credit standards on loans
to households for house purchase was unchanged at 10 percent,
exceeding the 2 percent expected at the time of the previous
survey round, the ECB said.  
 “Similarly, the degree of net tightening remained broadly
unchanged for consumer credit, at 12 percent, compared with an
expected 2 percent in the previous survey round.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jana Randow  in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        