-- ECB Says Revised Premium Terms Won't Unduly Impact Available Collateral
-- Esteban Duarte
-- 2010-07-28T14:08:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/ecb-says-revised-haircut-terms-won-t-unduly-impact-available-collateral.html

          
          
             The European Central Bank said a new
range of premiums on the assets it accepts against loans won’t
unduly limit the collateral banks can pledge.  
 The ECB today published a new set of so-called “haircuts”
it will apply when accepting assets as security in its
refinancing operations. The schedule shows the ECB will increase
the haircuts applied to asset-backed securities to 16 percent
from 12 percent and that it will apply specific haircuts on
bonds rated BBB+ to BBB-. The changes will come into effect on
Jan. 1, 2011.  
 “The new haircuts will not imply an undue decrease in the 
collateral available to counterparties” in ECB money market
operations, the central bank said in a  statement . The new 
framework differentiates collateral according to factors such as 
maturity and credit quality. It was published after a study by 
the ECB on the risk exposure of its balance sheet.  
 The ECB is trying to reduce the risk it takes in lending to
banks even as it provides them with as much cash as they want to
see them through the financial and sovereign debt crises. A
total 2.03 trillion euros ($2.64 trillion) of collateral was
deposited with the ECB last year, a 28 percent increase from
2008, the central bank said on April 19.  
 ‘Low-Quality Assets’  
 “The ECB is trying to say: We don’t want to continue
accepting low-quality assets as collateral, we can’t pull the
plug on you right now, but were going to charge you higher
haircuts,” said  Peter Dixon , an economist at Commerzbank AG in
London. The publication of bank stress-test results last week
gave “a greenish light to the health of the euro-zone banking
sector, and I guess that the ECB has taken that on board,” he
said.  
 Higher haircuts make it more expensive for banks to borrow
from the ECB. A 10 percent haircut on an asset means the central
bank would lend commercial banks 90 percent of its value.  
 The ECB will apply a haircut of as high as 46 percent to
bonds rated at the three lowest investment grades. That compares
to premiums as high as 22.5 percent on bonds rated A- and above.  
 “The move was likely driven by a need to rebalance the
risk exposure of the ECB, which increased significantly during
the crisis,” said  Silvio Peruzzo , an economist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Plc in London. “At the margin it might penalize some
banks that are persistently posting low-rated securities at the
ECB to get funding.”  
 The ECB eased the standards for collateral it accepts after
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s bankruptcy in 2008. The minimum
rating on bonds accepted in market operations was cut to BBB-
from A-. However, the ECB imposed an additional 5 percent
haircut on securities rated below A-, equivalent to A3 at
Moody’s.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jana Randow  in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
 Esteban Duarte  in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        