-- Technical Analysis Fails as Money-Making Strategy for Stocks, Birinyi Says
-- Whitney Kisling
-- 2010-07-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/technical-analysis-fails-as-money-making-strategy-for-stocks-birinyi-says.html

          
          
             Analysts who use patterns in price
and volume charts to forecast gains or losses in the stock
market fail to make investors money, according to a study of
technical analysis by Birinyi Associates Inc.  
 The  advance -decline line, which represents the number of
daily gains minus declines, is an example of technical analysis
that fails to forecast market moves, according to a report
yesterday by the Westport, Connecticut-based firm.  
 “Most indicators are descriptive, not indicative,” a group
of researchers led by  Laszlo Birinyi , the firm’s founder, wrote
in the report e-mailed to clients yesterday. “They tell us what
is going on, but seldom predict future moves.” They added that
“‘experts’ tell us historical trends, antecedents and other
characteristics which too often are the convention, the
theoretical, the last instance or the logical.”  
 The cumulative difference between advancing and declining
stocks hasn’t shown consistent trends, reaching a peak at the
end of some multiyear bull markets and in others during the
middle or earlier, Birinyi data from 1966 to 2002 show. That
means investors aren’t able to determine how much longer  rallies 
will continue based on the net number of rising shares among New
York Stock Exchange-listed companies.  
 Missing the Rally  
 The measure peaked in November 1998 during the bull market
that began two months before. It was 17 months before the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  topped out and the bull market
ended, according to Bloomberg data. Investors who bet that a
peak in the advance-decline line meant the bull market would end
missed out on a 34 percent rally.  
 Despite inconsistencies in predictive value, technical
analysis should instead be a tool that’s part of a broader
strategy for managing holdings, said Birinyi, a research and
money-management firm that oversees about $300 million.  
 “Technical approaches can and should be a useful adjunct
to every investor’s -- amateur and professional -- arsenal, if
and only if used properly and with understanding,” Birinyi
wrote. “Technicals detail and hopefully illuminate, but do not
predict.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney Kisling  in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        