-- EDF Said to Consider Boosting Areva Stake to as Much as 7% in Share Sale
-- Francois de Beaupuy
-- 2010-07-28T14:17:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/edf-said-to-consider-boosting-areva-stake-to-as-much-as-7-in-share-sale.html

          
          
             Electricite de France SA  may boost
its stake in  Areva SA  to as much as 7 percent through the
nuclear-reactor maker’s planned share sale this year, a
government official with knowledge of the matter said.  
 The total size of the capital increase may be boosted to as
much as 20 percent of Areva if Paris-based EDF opts to invest,
said the person, who requested anonymity because the talks are
private. The French state, which owns 91 percent of Areva, has
previously said the share sale would be capped at 15 percent.
EDF already owns 2.5 percent of the atomic plant supplier.  
 Areva Chief Executive Officer  Anne Lauvergeon  needs the
share sale to help fund 6.5 billion euros ($8.4 billion) of
investment by the end of 2012 to develop uranium mines and ramp
up a new nuclear fuel plant. Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd.
and the sovereign wealth funds of Kuwait and Qatar are already
in talks about acquiring shares in the sale.  
 In a separate transaction, some Middle East investors,
African governments, sovereign wealth funds and South African
mining companies are seeking to buy a stake in Areva’s mining
unit in exchange for help to obtain and operate concessions, the
person said. Talks may be held from next year after Areva
completes its sale of new shares to investors, the person said.  
 Areva’s capital increase may remain limited to 15 percent,
and EDF may invest in Areva either during the transaction
planned with Mitsubishi, Kuwait and Qatar, or at a later stage,
the person said.  
 EDF spokeswoman  Carole Trivi  was not immediately available
for comment. At current prices, EDF would need to invest about
560 million euros to lift its stake to 7 percent from 2.5
percent.  
 Finances Strained  
 Standard & Poor’s cut Areva’s credit rating on June 28,
saying that its finances were being strained by construction
delays and cost overruns at a nuclear plant in Finland and that
profit could be hurt by a dispute with EDF over a nuclear fuel
contract that expires this year.  
 Areva’s net  debt  climbed to 6.2 billion euros at the end of
last year as Lauvergeon bought mining assets and profits dropped
in recent years, forcing the company to sell its power-grid unit
to Schneider Electric SA and Alstom SA in June.  
 The French company has had to make provisions of about 2.7
billion euros to cover delays at the first-of-its-kind reactor
after the project fell more than three years behind schedule.
Areva faces 1.4 billion euros in claims from customer
Teollisuuden Voima Oyj for the construction delay, while Areva
is suing its Finnish customer for 1 billion euros.  
 About 4 percent of Areva trades on the Paris stock exchange
as non-voting investment certificates. They rose 14.6 euros, or
4.2 percent, to 354.6 euros as of 2:21 p.m. today, giving the
company a market value of 12.6 billion euros.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francois de Beaupuy  in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        