-- EDF Energies Chief Says Canadian Wind, Solar Development Are `Promising'
-- Tara Patel
-- 2010-07-28T12:46:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/edf-energies-chief-says-canadian-wind-solar-development-are-promising-.html

          
          
             EDF Energies Nouvelles SA , the
renewable-energy arm of  Electricite de France SA , said
development of wind and solar power in Canada is expanding
rapidly as installation of turbines stalls in France.  
 “There is a lot to do” in Quebec and Ontario, Chief
Executive Officer  David Corchia  said today at a news conference
in Paris after the company posted first-half results. “We see
real promise in Canada.”  
 In France, the next two years are expected to be “lean”
because of difficulties getting building permits amid local
opposition to projects, he said.  
 EDF Energies is installing wind and solar capacity as the
European Union aims to get 20 percent of its energy from
renewable sources within 10 years, reducing dependence on oil
and natural-gas imports. About a third of the company’s net
installed wind capacity at the end of last month is in the U.S.,
while French installations were a third smaller.  
 Profit fell 7.7 percent to 38.6 million euros ($50.2
million), EDF said today in a statement. The energy developer
and producer kept its target for earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization at 430 million euros  to
450 million euros this year. That measure of profit rose 15
percent to 168.9 million euros in the latest period.  
 ‘Very Confident’  
 “We are very confident in our ability to meet our
guidance,” Chief Financial Officer  Philippe Crouzat  said.  
 EDF Energies Nouvelles is developing 954 megawatts in
Quebec, including 300 megawatts at Lake Alfred, where
construction may start next year, according to a presentation.
Feed-in tariffs, or the price paid by utilities for renewable
energies, look “promising” in Ontario, EDF said.  
 The company will consider a government tender planned for
the end of the year for offshore wind projects in France,
Corchia said. “We will be very careful because there are a lot
of ways to lose money on offshore projects. Offshore has
enormous potential in Europe.”  
 The company, which has started building solar farms in
France, Spain and Canada, is targeting 500 megawatts by the end
of 2012. It plans to have 4,200 megawatts of installed wind
capacity by that time.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tara Patel  in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        