-- EFG Falls Most in 16 Months after Posting $764 Million Loss on Writedowns
-- Carolyn Bandel
-- 2010-07-28T11:20:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/efg-falls-most-in-16-months-after-posting-764-million-loss-on-writedowns.html

          
          
             EFG International AG , the Swiss bank
controlled by Greek billionaire Spiro Latsis and his family,
swung to a loss in the first half after posting an 859.5 million
Swiss franc ($812 million) write-off on three asset managers.  
 The bank cut the value of its stake in C.M. Advisors Ltd., a
fund of hedge funds, Derivatives Structured Asset Management, a
Swedish money manager, and hedge fund firm Marble Bar Asset
Management LLP, Zurich-based EFG said in a statement today. That
pushed the bank into a net loss of 809.8 million francs. The
stock fell the most in 16 months in Zurich trading.  
 EFG spent more than 1.5 billion francs on acquiring 14 money
managers between 2005 and 2008 as part of a strategy to build
client assets. Chief Executive Officer  Lawrence Howell , who’s
run the bank since 1995, said today the company posted the
losses when earnings at the three businesses tumbled,
confounding EFG’s expectations of a first-half rebound.  
 “Client appetite for the products in these three product
areas shriveled,” Howell said on a conference call today. “We
don’t think the world is going to end in hellfire, brimstone and
damnation, but it’s very difficult to forecast strong growth in
those businesses.”  
 EFG dropped as much as 18 percent and was down 15 percent
at 13.35 francs as of 1:04 p.m. in Zurich, cutting the bank’s
market value to 1.96 billion francs.  
 Taking a Hit  
 “EFG has finally taken the hit of cleaning up their
balance sheet,”  Teresa Nielsen , an analyst at Vontobel Holding
AG, wrote in a note. “This is positive for the bank going
forward but could be shocking some investors for the day.”  
 The bank’s half-a-billion-franc write-off at Marble Bar
came after assets at the London-based hedge fund slumped more
than 80 percent over the past two years. EFG agreed in May to
transfer its stake, acquired for $517 million in December 2007,
to the firm’s managers in return for performance fees.  
 Marble Bar’s assets fell to “less than” 1 billion francs,
EFG said today, from a peak of $6 billion in the first half of
2008. The firm fired half its staff last month after executives
regained control, people with knowledge of the cuts said.  
 EFG wrote off 210 million francs for C.M. Advisors, which
has 2.2 billion francs under management. The write-off at
Derivatives Structured Asset Management, which offers structured
products in the Swedish market, was 168 million francs. DSAM,
which includes a private banking business and Quesada
Kapitalforvaltning AB, manages 5 billion francs for clients.  
 The bank doesn’t expect further “substantial charges,”
Howell said.  
 New CFO  
 Chief Financial Officer  Rudy van den Steen , 46, will step
down on Oct. 1 to “devote more time to family interests,” said
Howell. He will be replaced by  Jean-Christophe Pernollet , 44, a
former PricewaterhouseCoopers partner in Geneva.  
 Assets under management increased 1.5 percent to 87.5
billion francs during the first half of the year. That compares
with EFG’s end-2008 target of at least 121 billion francs. The
bank attracted net inflows of 5 billion francs, beating a 4.5
billion-franc median estimate by analysts.  
 EFG added a net 15 relationship managers over the six
months, to 665, it also said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Warren Giles  in Geneva at 
 wgiles@bloomberg.net ;
 Carolyn Bandel  in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       EFG Posts Loss of 809.8 Million Francs, Shares Slump  
                       
                         
                           EFG International via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Lawrence D. Howell, European Financial Group International chief executive officer. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Lawrence D. Howell, European Financial Group International chief executive officer. Source: EFG International via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
