-- Egypt Likely to Hold Rates While Inflation Stays Stable, Economists Say
-- Alaa Shahine
-- 2010-07-28T07:48:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/egypt-likely-to-hold-rates-while-inflation-stays-stable-economists-say.html

          
          
             The Egyptian  central bank  will
probably hold its benchmark interest rate for the seventh
straight meeting after core inflation was almost unchanged.  
 The bank will keep its overnight deposit rate at 8.25
percent, the lowest level since November 2006, according to all
six economists surveyed by Bloomberg ahead of the July 29
gathering of the Monetary Policy Committee.  
 “Under the current circumstances of little upward build-up
in prices and relatively healthy growth there is no reason to
expect a change in interest rates at this stage,”  John Sfakianakis , the Riyadh-based chief regional economist at Credit
Agricole CIB, said by e-mail.  
 Core inflation, which excludes the costs of fruits and
vegetables as well as regulated prices, was 6.70 percent in June
compared with 6.69 percent in the previous month. Headline
inflation in urban areas of Egypt, the rate that the central
bank uses to calculate the core measure, accelerated to 10.7
percent from 10.5 percent in the same period.  
 Egypt’s economy, driven by tourism, manufacturing and
construction, expanded at a 5.8 percent annual rate in the first
quarter of 2010, Economic Development Minister  Osman Mohamed Osman  said in May. The government expects the economy to grow
about 5.3 percent in the fiscal year that ended in June,
compared with 4.7 percent the previous year.  
 The central bank last lowered the benchmark rate in
September.  
 The benchmark EGX30 stock index has shed 0.25 percent this
year.  Talaat Moustafa Group Holding , Egypt’s biggest publicly
traded real estate developer which also has tourism assets, has
gained 6 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alaa Shahine  in Beirut via Cairo newsroom at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        