-- Telefonica Agrees to Buy Vivo Stake for $9.8 Billion
-- Anabela Reis
-- 2010-07-28T16:32:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/telefonica-said-to-agree-9-8-billion-acquisition-of-vivo-stake-in-brazil.html

          
          
             Telefonica SA  agreed to buy  Portugal
Telecom SGPS SA ’s stake in  Vivo Participacoes SA , Brazil’s
largest wireless company, after raising its bid for a third time
to 7.5 billion euros ($9.8 billion).  
 Telefonica will initially pay 4.5 billion euros in the all-
cash deal, followed by 1 billion euros at the end of the year
and the rest in 2011, the company said in a statement.
Separately, Portugal Telecom agreed to pay 8.44 billion reais
($4.8 billion) for a 22.4 percent stake in Brazil’s biggest phone
operator  Telemar Norte Leste , known as Oi.  
 The Vivo accord ends almost three months of wrangling
during which the Portuguese company’s board sought more money
and the country’s government blocked the deal, calling the stake
“strategic.” Telefonica Chairman  Cesar Alierta  raised his
initial offer by 32 percent to gain control of Vivo, which he
wants to merge with the Spanish company’s Brazilian fixed-line
unit  Telecomunicacoes de Sao Paulo SA , or Telesp, to ride the
growth in the Latin American country as business slows at home.  
 “Strategically, this was clearly necessary for Telefonica
and the price reflects that,” said  Alberto Espelosin , who helps
manage about $12 billion at Ibercaja Gestion in Zaragoza, Spain,
and owns Telefonica shares.  
 Both companies have sought growth in Brazil as markets at
home have cooled. Vivo said today it ended the second quarter
with 56 million clients. The carrier controls 30 percent of the
Brazilian mobile-phone market, according to Anatel, the
country’s phone regulator. Brazil’s economy is growing at the
fastest pace in more than two decades.  
 Adding to Profit  
 Portugal Telecom gained 2.8 percent to 8.533 euros in
Lisbon trading. Telefonica  rose  0.7 percent to 17.005 euros in
Madrid, giving the company a market value of 77.6 billion euros.  
 Telefonica’s latest offer for Portugal Telecom’s stake in
Brasilcel NV, their 50-50 venture that owns 60 percent of Vivo,
is greater than the market value Portugal Telecom had yesterday
of 7.44 billion euros.  
 “Portugal Telecom did a very good job for their
shareholders,” said  Andrew Hogley , an analyst at Execution
Noble Ltd. in London.  
 For Telefonica, the offer will add to profit from the first
year and will make the Spanish company the largest phone
operator in Brazil, it said in an e-mailed statement. Telefonica
will also offer about 800 million euros for Vivo voting shares
not held by Brasilcel, it said.  
 Legal Options  
 Telefonica on May 6 offered 5.7 billion euros for Portugal
Telecom’s Vivo stake. It raised the bid to 6.5 billion euros in
June and in the same month increased it to 7.15 billion euros,
after the two earlier offers were rejected by the company.  
 The third offer, which won approval from the Lisbon-based
company’s investors, was blocked by the Portuguese government
last month using special veto powers. When the offer expired in
mid-July, Telefonica refused to extend it, deciding instead to
look into its legal options.  
 “An agreement was a better option than an uncertain legal
process,” said  Francisco Salvador , a strategist at Iberian
Equities in Madrid.  
 Telefonica’s bid values Vivo at more than 10 times this
year’s  expected earnings  before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization. Telefonica trades at 3.5 times estimated Ebitda.
The company said the deal will close within 60 days following
the signing of the accord.  
 Brazil Push  
 Telefonica , whose Brazilian unit Telesp’s first-quarter
sales fell 1.4 percent in local-currency terms, needs a greater
mobile-phone presence in the country.  
 “Brazilian mobile was the biggest gap in Telefonica’s
footprint,” said  Georgios Ierodiaconou , an analyst with ING
Groep NV in London.  
 Portugal Telecom has relied on Brazil for growth, with
sales from the Latin American country rising 27 percent in the
first quarter, while  revenue at home  fell 3.6 percent. Since
2006, Vivo has overtaken the fixed-line unit as the company’s
biggest revenue contributor, accounting for half of sales in the
first quarter.  
 For Portugal Telecom, the deal with Brazil’s Oi would let
it keep a presence in the country even as it sells its Vivo
stake to Telefonica. Oi, based in Rio de Janeiro, provides
Internet access, mobile, fixed-line and pay-television services.  
 Advisers  
 This deal “is a win-win in our perspective,” Portugal
Telecom Chief Executive Officer  Zeinal Bava  said. “Brazil
continues to be an important strategic bet for Portugal
Telecom.”  
 As part of the accord, Oi will buy a stake in Portugal
Telecom of as much as 10 percent, the Brazilian company said in
a regulatory filing.  
 Bank of America Merrill Lynch and Morgan Stanley are
advising Portugal Telecom on the Vivo deal, while 
Credit Suisse Group AG and UBS AG are advising Telefonica.
On Oi, the Portuguese company is being advised by Banco 
Espirito Santo, Bank of America and Morgan Stanley.
 Skadden, Arps, Slate Meagher & Flom LLP  is the law firm
representing Portugal Telecom.  
 Telefonica will partly fund the Vivo transaction with a 5
billion-euro loan arranged by Citigroup Inc., people with
knowledge of the deal said July 8. The company offered to pay
initial interest of 65 basis points, or 0.65 percentage point,
on the three-year borrowing, the people said.  
 The cost of insuring against losses on Telefonica bonds
rose 13 basis points to 172.5, according to data provider CMA.
Credit default swaps pay the buyers the face value in exchange
for the underlying security if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Paul Tobin  in Madrid at 
 ptobin@bloomberg.net ;
 Anabela Reis  at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Alierta has had to raise the bid three times to gain control of Vivo, Brazil’s largest wireless company. Photographer: Jonathan Fickies/Bloomberg  
                   
    

 
     
         Audio Download:  ING's Ierodiacono Interview 
     
         

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
