-- Telkom South Africa Rules Out Nigerian Acquisitions as Solution to Losses
-- Nicky Smith
-- 2010-07-28T09:57:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/telkom-south-africa-rules-out-nigerian-acquisitions-as-solution-to-losses.html

          
          
             Telkom South Africa Ltd. , Africa’s
largest fixed-line phone company, has ruled out acquiring other
operators in Nigeria as a solution for the losses made with its
Multi-Links business in that country.  
 “Anything that we will do to bulk up would not be through
acquisitions,” Acting Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Hedberg 
said in an interview in Johannesburg today. Deals in the rest of
Africa are not planned either.  
 Former CEO  Reuben September , who left on July 7 after the
company did not renew his contract, said in November Telkom
would try to buy other mobile voice and data companies using the
code division multiple access technology in Nigeria to gain
scale in Africa’s most populous nation.  
 With size comes the ability to maintain better margins,
September said. In January, Telkom’s board rejected September’s
proposal to merge Multi-Links with with  Starcomms Plc , a
Nigerian CDMA operator, Chairman  Jeff Molobela  said in a
briefing in Johannesburg today.  
 The merger would have given Telkom a 39 percent stake in
the new company and wouldn’t have increased Telkom’s share of
the market much from its 2.6 percent, Molobela said. Telkom paid
$410 million for Multi-Links. The unit reported a loss of 659
million rand ($89.5 million) before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization in the 12 months through March.  
 “The company would not have been able to do anything; the
partner had about $130 million in debt,” Molobela said in an
interview. The proposal was “irresponsible” and “far from
reducing our exposure to Nigeria, it would have increased it.”  
 Cell C Prospects  
 In South Africa, Telkom will focus on the start of its
mobile service, which is still planned for this calendar year,
Hedberg said. The company has  lost  executives responsible for
international operations, finance, strategy, procurement and
network provisioning in the past five months.  
 Hedberg, formerly the CEO of Cell C Ltd., South Africa’s
third-largest mobile-phone operator, said today a tie-up between
Telkom and Cell C “could make sense.” He also expressed this
view while still at Cell C. There are no discussions about a
possible tie-up and Telkom will focus on services to retain
customers, Hedberg said today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicky Smith  in Johannesburg at 
 nsmith38@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        