-- Emirates Will Begin Flights to Dakar Amid Senegal Plans for Regional Hub
-- Drew Hinshaw
-- 2010-07-28T16:51:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/emirates-will-begin-flights-to-dakar-amid-senegal-plans-for-regional-hub.html

          
          
             Emirates, the biggest Arab airline,
said it will begin flights to the Senegalese capital of Dakar on
Sept. 1, amid plans to develop the West African country as a
regional transport hub.  
 The Dubai-based carrier is opening the route to service
Middle East and Asia-bound passengers transferring from regional
flights, Nigel Page, senior vice president for Africa and the
Americas, said in an interview today in Dakar.  
 The introduction of flights comes as Senegal Airlines, a
closely held carrier, plans to start flying to West African
capitals by the end of this year, said Ibrahima Diong, Senegal’s
managing director of air transport.  
 “What we’re hoping is that Senegal Airlines will provide a
feeder market for us through Dakar to connect with various
markets like Conakry, Nouakchott, Bamako and places like that,”
Page said.  
 Dakar’s main airport, situated on the western tip of
Africa, handles 2.5 million passenger seats annually, 43 percent
more than its nearest competitor in the Ghanaian capital, Accra,
the World Bank said in a July 23 report.  
 Senegal is building a $460 million, 30-gate airport 60
kilometers (37 miles) outside of Dakar, according to the
project’s  website . When finished, the Blaise Diagne
International Airport will handle an initial 3 million passenger
seats per year, with a goal of reaching 5 million by 2025,
according to the website.  
 ‘Emerging Hub’  
 “Senegal is an emerging hub for air transportation in West
Africa, with great international connectivity, better quality
standards and a higher volume of international traffic,” said
Clemencia de Mastle, an infrastructural diagnosis coordinator at
the  World Bank , at a ceremony to mark the publication of the
World Bank report last week. “There, however, is a potential for
an inter-regional market that has yet to be fully developed.”  
 Senegal Airlines is being reconstituted from state-owned
Air Senegal International, which collapsed last year. To develop
the regional market, the carrier intends to sign accords with
other airlines in the region, Diong said.  
 “The collapse of the previous national carrier has left a
bit of hole here, and hopefully a new airline will help fill
that hole,” Page said.  
 Emirates Airlines, which Diong said is the only carrier
connecting Dakar and the Middle East, shares the hub with
airlines including Atlanta-based  Delta Air Lines Inc.  and
Johannesburg-based South African Airways.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Drew Hinshaw  in Dakar via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        