-- Enbridge Energy to Buy Atlas Pipelines, Plants in U.S. for $682 Million
-- Jim Polson
-- 2010-07-28T20:08:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/enbridge-energy-to-buy-atlas-pipelines-plants-in-u-s-for-682-million.html

          
          
             Enbridge Energy Partners LP , the
U.S. affiliate of Canada’s largest fuel transporter, agreed to
buy pipelines and plants from Atlas Pipeline Partners LP for
$682 million to capitalize on rising natural-gas output in
Oklahoma and Texas.  
 The purchase of the Elk City Gathering and Processing
System includes 800 miles (1,287 kilometers) of pipelines and
four gas-processing plants in southwestern Oklahoma and the
Texas Panhandle, Houston-based Enbridge Energy said today in a
statement. The deal is scheduled to close by year-end.  
 Enbridge Energy said it will integrate Elk City into its
1,800-mile Anadarko system in the same area. Elk City has daily
capacity to handle 370 million cubic feet of gas and produce
20,000 barrels of gas liquids such as propane and ethane, a
component in plastics, Enbridge Energy said.  
 The purchase will boost Enbridge Energy’s capacity to ship
fuel from the Granite Wash, a half-century old Texas field where
producers including Apache Corp. and Forest Oil Corp. have begun
drawing out gas liquids and oil, both more profitable than dry
gas at current prices. Gas rich in liquids is processed by
plants like those Enbridge Energy is buying.  
 Enbridge Inc. , Canada’s largest pipeline company, controls
Enbridge Energy through ownership of its general partner.
Enbridge is based in Calgary.  
 Debt Reduction  
 Atlas Pipeline , which is controlled by Moon Township,
Pennsylvania-based gas producer Atlas Energy Inc., said in a
separate statement that it will use proceeds from the Elk City
sale to pay off a $422 million secured term loan and $250
million of bank borrowings.  
 Enbridge Energy  fell 80 cents to $56.80 as of the 4 p.m.
close of New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Atlas
Pipeline surged $3.87, or 31 percent, to $16.22.  
 Atlas Energy  plans to expand drilling and gas production
from the Marcellus Shale formation in Pennsylvania under a joint
venture with Reliance Industries Ltd., India’s largest company
by market value. Reliance agreed in April to pay $1.7 billion
for its stake in the venture.  
 “De-levering of the balance sheet should allow Atlas
Pipeline to focus on its higher-growth areas, such as the
Marcellus Shale,”  Kenneth Duffel , a debt analyst at KDP
Investment Advisors Inc. in Montpelier, Vermont, said today in a
note to clients.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        