-- Eni Said to Delay India Oil Block Exploration on Rig Shortage, BP Spill
-- Natalie Obiko Pearson
-- 2010-08-06T12:07:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/eni-second-quarter-profit-gains-81-on-higher-crude-price-stronger-dollar.html

          
          
             Eni SpA , Italy’s largest oil and gas
company, may delay exploration of an offshore field in India by
at least a year, said two people with knowledge of the plans.  
 Eni, which owns the Andaman block with  Oil & Natural Gas
Corp.  and  Gail India Ltd. , is reconsidering the risks of
deepwater exploration following the BP Plc accident in the Gulf
of Mexico, one of the people said. Difficulties in sourcing a
rig may also push back drilling until at least the second half
of next year, the people said, asking not to be identified
because the matter is confidential.  
 Filippo Cotalini , a spokesman for Eni in Rome, didn’t
comment after acknowledging an e-mail from Bloomberg yesterday.
Narayani Mahil, a spokeswoman for ONGC in New Delhi, was
unavailable to comment, an assistant at her office said today.  
 ONGC Chairman  R.S. Sharma  said on June 24 that explorers
worldwide may struggle to get approval for offshore developments
following the BP spill. Norway removed four offshore blocks from
a licensing auction on June 23 while it studies the causes of
the Gulf disaster.  
 India’s largest oil and gas discoveries have been off the
coast, including  Reliance Industries Ltd. ’s KG-D6 natural gas
field and ONGC’s Mumbai High. Of the acreage with the most
potential for future exploration, 41 percent lies offshore,
according to the Directorate General of Hydrocarbons website.  
 Eni was named operator of the Andaman block in 2005 and
committed to commence drilling within four years, which it later
extended to late 2010, according to its  website . The 13,000
square kilometers (5,019 square miles) of acreage near the
Andaman and Nicobar islands in the Bay of Bengal includes waters
as deep as 2,600 meters, according to India’s upstream regulator.  
 Eni is awaiting a rig that is still in use at a site in
East Timor, said one of the people familiar with the matter.  
 Eni is also operator of a block in northwestern Rajasthan
state and holds a 47.16 percent stake in Hindustan Oil
Exploration Co., which started producing gas off southern Tamil
Nadu state in October, according to the company’s  website.   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Natalie Obiko Pearson  in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        