-- Equity Bulls Are Wrong as S&P 500 Is Fairly Priced, BNY Strategist Says
-- Nikolaj Gammeltoft
-- 2010-07-28T21:25:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/equity-bulls-are-wrong-as-s-p-500-is-fairly-priced-bny-strategist-says.html

          
          
             U.S. stocks are priced fairly,
because bullish investors fail to consider analysts’ tendency to
overshoot profit estimates and earnings forecasts don’t include
negative one-time items, according to BNY ConvergEx Group LLC.  
 The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  is trading at a normal
level and not the discount to its historical price-to-estimated-
earnings  ratio  that optimistic investors believe,  Nick Colas ,
chief market strategist at BNY ConvergEx Group in New York,
wrote in a report today.  
 “A popular rallying cry for market optimists is that
equities are statistically cheap on a price-earnings basis,”
Colas wrote. “There are some existential problems with this
analysis, of course. Operating earnings do not include one-time
financial charges, and earnings estimates from analysts tend to
be overly optimistic each and every year.”  
 The benchmark index for U.S. stocks is trading at 13.2
times the one-year forward looking operating earnings of $84 a
share, below the 15-times level that some investors consider a
correct price for equities, according to BNY ConvergEx, the
brokerage and trading-software firm that’s partly owned by  Bank
of New York Co.   
 Equity analysts are too optimistic in their earnings growth
estimates, Colas said. Analysts have on average overstated their
forecasts by almost 100 percent over the past 25 years,
according to a  study  by McKinsey & Co. Also, profit expectations
are based on operating earnings, which exclude charges such as
write-offs and writedowns, giving investors an idealized view of
company profits, Colas wrote.  
 Hoarding Cash  
 The strategist cited companies hoarding of cash, large
amounts of government debt, low consumer confidence, a tough
housing market, regulatory uncertainty and deflationary pressure
as obstacles for higher equity valuations.  
 “So 13 times earnings may not be cheap. Or expensive,”
Colas wrote. “It may be a very defensible -- and persistent --
normal valuation for stocks.”  
 Profits for companies in the  S&P 500  are forecast to rise
35 percent to a combined $82.75 a share in 2010, according to
estimates from more than 2,000 analysts tracked by Bloomberg.
That implies a price-earnings ratio of about 13.4, compared with
an average multiple of 20.3 since January 1990, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The S&P 500 has  advanced  8.2 percent since July 2 amid
optimism that second-quarter earnings will bolster the economy.
Of the 231 companies in the S&P 500 that reported results since
July 12, about 81 percent have beaten the average analyst profit
forecast, while earnings per share have grown 54 percent,
Bloomberg  data  shows. The gauge fell 16 percent from this year’s
high in April through July 2 on concern that economic growth in
the U.S. and China is slowing, pushing the price-to-earnings
ratio down to 14.3, the lowest valuation since April 2009.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        