-- Hess Says Second-Quarter Refining Loss Widens on Port Reading Maintenance
-- Allison Bennett
-- 2010-07-28T20:06:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/hess-says-second-quarter-refining-loss-widens-on-port-reading-maintenance.html

          
          
             Hess Corp. , the New York City-based
oil company, reported a wider loss in its refining business
after maintenance left its Port Reading, New Jersey, plant down
for 41 days.  
 The loss in the segment, known as “downstream,” was $31
million compared with a loss of $26 million a year earlier, Hess
said today in a statement.  
 The second quarter isn’t the best time for a so-called
turnaround since it’s the better quarter for refining activity,
said  Philip Weiss , an analyst at Argus Research in New York.  
 “We had Valero come yesterday with a good result, BP’s
refining business did pretty well, Chevron’s interim update was
positive on the refining side and so to see these guys lose
money in refining is a bit of a surprise,” said Weiss, who has
a “hold” rating on the stock and doesn’t own any.  
 Hess  dropped  83 cents, or 1.6 percent, to $52.47 at 4 p.m.
in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange. The shares,
which have 11 buy and nine hold  ratings , have fallen 13 percent
this year.  
 “The downstream business for Hess is getting smaller and
smaller relative to the overall” business,  Jim Byrne , a
Calgary-based analyst for BMO Capital Markets who rates Hess
shares “outperform” and doesn’t own any, said before the
earnings release.  
 Profit Rises  
 Second-quarter profit more than tripled, beating analysts’
estimates, as crude prices and production increased.  
 Net income rose to $375 million, or $1.15 a share, from
$100 million, or 31 cents, from a year earlier. The company was
expected to earn $1.12 a share, the average of 15 analysts’
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Hess reported a $488 million
profit in its exploration and production business.  
 “A lot of Hess’s success in the market hinges on positive
news in their exploration and development efforts,” Weiss said.
“First-quarter production also came in better than expected. I
would expect that they will increase they’re guidance for the
year.”  
 Daily crude and natural-gas production in the quarter rose
2 percent to the equivalent of 415,000 barrels of oil from
407,000 in the same period a year ago.  
 Oil futures in New York averaged $78.05 a barrel in the
second quarter, 31 percent more than last year. Hess’s worldwide
selling price for crude during the second quarter was $64.81 a
barrel compared with $49.27 a barrel a year ago.  
 The company yesterday agreed to buy American Oil & Gas Inc.
for $367 million, adding to its acreage in the Bakken formation
in North Dakota.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        