-- Metro Opens First New U.K. Consumer Bank Since 1872
-- Sakshi Sharma
-- 2010-07-29T10:04:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/metro-opens-first-u-k-main-street-bank-since-1872-may-hold-ipo-by-2013.html

          
          
             Metro Bank is opening the first
new U.K. consumer bank in more than a century today, as the
government pushes for more competition in the industry.  
 Metro, which will also offer services to businesses, aims
to have about 200 outlets by 2020, capturing 10 percent of
London’s consumer-banking market,  Anthony Thomson , chairman
and a co-founder of the company, said in an interview at the
new branch in Holborn. The bank may raise 250 million pounds
($391 million) in the next three years to fund the expansion,
probably through an initial public offering, Thomson said.  
 “New banks will face a very difficult time offering better
products and prices,” said  Ralph Silva , a strategist at London-
based Silva Research Network. “Customers need to know how
different a new bank will be, whether it would give them a
premium over others on their mortgage for instance.”  
 Metro is attempting to win clients from the U.K.’s biggest
banks by opening for longer hours seven days a week and
providing faster, better quality customer service than rivals.
It’s taking on  HSBC Holdings Plc , Barclays Plc, Lloyds Banking
Group Plc and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , after the
reputation of the industry was battered by the collapse of
Northern Rock Plc and the global financial crisis.  
 The government, which bailed out some of the U.K.’s biggest
banks in the credit crunch, is encouraging competition and
transparency among lenders as it seeks to improve the country’s
financial-services industry.  
 Competition and Transparency  
 “Competition is necessary in the market, and like any
product, for banking too, transparency of price is essential,”
 Andrew Tyrie , chairman of the U.K. Treasury Committee, said at a
conference earlier this month.  
 The U.K.’s biggest four banks made a total of about 2.5
billion pounds of pretax profit from U.K. consumer banking last
year. Lloyds, Britain’s biggest provider of checking accounts
and mortgages, had 1,786 branches nationwide at the end of last
year. Barclays had 1,698 outlets and HSBC had 1,369, according
to  British Bankers’ Association  data. Barclays had about 300
branches in the London area as of Dec. 31.  
 Price comparison website  uSwitch.com  found in a  survey  this
month that 38 percent of bank customers would consider moving
their current accounts. Fifty-seven percent viewed the banking
industry in a dim light and 37 percent said that new banks will
be innovative and change the industry for the better.  
 ‘Something Different’  
 “I need to know if a new bank is offering something
considerably different from my current one” before deciding to
change accounts, Leslie Tully, a 32-year-old who works at a
London security-services company and has been banking with HSBC
for the past five years, said in an interview. “I don’t know
what, but maybe a cash incentive?”  
 Metro, set up by Thomson, 56, and  Vernon Hill , the founder
of New Jersey-based Commerce Bancorp. Inc. in 1973, will offer
products including mortgages, credit cards, loans and savings
accounts. The rates charged and paid out will be “fair and
transparent,” Thomson said, without giving further details. The
bank plans to distinguish itself with customer service and it’s
“not just about the rates,” the chairman said.  
 Thomson is also chairman of the Financial Services Forum,
an independent member-based organization for more than 300
executives with an interest in financial-services marketing. He
has worked in financial services for the past 27 years, and
founded City Financial Marketing in 1987, selling the firm
10 years later.  
 Man’s Best Friend  
 Hill is a former real-estate developer and owner of Burger
King restaurants who resigned from Commerce Bancorp. when
regulators challenged contracts awarded to his family. He had
built the company into the largest bank in New Jersey, with more
than 400 branches, using a customer-friendly approach, including
longer opening hours and providing dog biscuits for customers’
pets at branches.  
 In 2008, Hill became chairman at Philadelphia-based  Petplan
USA , which sells insurance for dogs and cats. He has also set up
a private investment group and joined the executive committee of
the  Saladworks Inc.  restaurant chain, based in Conshohocken,
Pennsylvania.  
 Metro’s services will also include opening bank and credit-
card accounts within 15 minutes, free coin-counting for anyone
and providing water and biscuits for dogs. Branches will be open
361 days a year and tellers won’t be behind security screens.  
 “We see a huge growth opportunity,” Thomson said. “The
only way for other high street banks to improve profits is to
cut their costs. We will invest in services because we are in
the business of taking market share from the other banks.”  
 Expansion Plans  
 The Holborn branch will be followed by outlets at Earl’s
Court, Borehamwood and Fulham Broadway later this year, and
customers will also have access to a 24-hour call center and
online-banking services.  
 Metro is the first consumer bank to enter the market since
the Co-operative Bank in 1872, according to the BBA.  Richard Branson ’s Virgin Bank and Project New Bank, promoted by Lloyd’s
of London Chairman  Peter Levene , plan to enter U.K. banking by
2011. Apart from the country’s big four banks, they will also be
competing with supermarkets offering financial-services products
in their stores, many of them at a discount to loyal customers.  
 “The underlying challenge around all this new activity
would be whether customers will switch accounts or not,” said
Steve Davies, head of retail banking at PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP. “New banks will bring in a new perspective to banking in
the U.K., but it will be a marathon, not a sprint.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Sakshi Sharma in London at 
 ssharma121@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Metro is attempting to win clients from the U.K.’s biggest banks by opening for longer hours seven days a week and providing faster, better quality customer service than rivals. Photographer: Simon Dawson/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 29 (Bloomberg) -- Richard Stovin-Bradford of the Financial Times' Lex commentary team discusses Metro Bank's U.K. expansion. 
     Metro is opening the first new U.K. consumer bank in more than a century today. The bank will also offer services to businesses and aims to have about 200 outlets by 2020. Stovin-Bradford talks with Jon Erlichman on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
