-- Euro Strengthens Against the U.S. Dollar, Climbs Versus the Japanese Yen
-- Yoshiaki Nohara
-- 2010-07-28T08:57:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/euro-strengthens-against-yen-as-risk-appetite-resumes-aussie-declines.html

          
          
             The euro rose against the yen as
improving appetite for riskier assets pushed global equity
indexes higher and stemmed demand for the perceived safety of
the Japanese currency.  
 The 16-nation euro was near its strongest level against the
yen and the dollar in more than two months as the MSCI World
Index added 0.3 percent, a fifth straight advance. Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc analysts said the euro may not weaken as
quickly as they previously forecast given the resilience of
economic data in the region. Australia’s dollar slid after the
nation’s consumer prices rose less than expected, backing the
case for the central bank to keep interest rates unchanged.  
 The single currency “continues to trade stronger against
the yen as improving risk sentiment weighs on the Japanese
currency,” said  Adam Cole , head of global foreign-exchange
strategy at Royal Bank of Canada in London.  
 The single currency gained 0.2 percent to 114.50 yen at
9:27 a.m. in London and reached 114.74 yen earlier, the most
since May 18. The euro advanced 0.1 percent to $1.3006 and
yesterday touched $1.3046, the highest since May 19.  
 The yen typically strengthens in times of financial turmoil
as Japan’s trade surplus means it does not have to rely on
overseas lenders.  
 Reports including last week’s German consumer-confidence
figures and euro-area credit growth “continue to show
surprising strength,”  Greg Gibbs , a currency strategist at RBS
in Sydney, wrote in an e-mailed report today.  
 U.S. Economy  
 Germany’s import price index rose 9.1 percent in the year
to June, a report showed yesterday. That indicates recent euro
weakness “is likely to underpin inflation,” Gibbs wrote. “The
data suggest that the euro may not need to fall as we have
forecast, or certainly not as fast.”  
 Reports this week may show the recovery in the world’s
largest economy is faltering compared to Europe.  
 The U.S. economy grew at a 2.5 percent annualized rate in
the second quarter after expanding at a 2.7 percent pace in the
first, according to the median estimate of economists in a
Bloomberg News survey before the data is released on July 30.  
 The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. is
forecast to report its business barometer fell to 56.0 in July
from 59.1 in June, a separate Bloomberg survey showed ahead of
the July 30 announcement. Figures more than 50 signal expansion.  
 Japan’s currency erased earlier gains against the euro as
the  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  rose 2.7 percent and the  MSCI Asia
Pacific Index  of regional shares advanced 1.1 percent.  
 Annual Performance  
 Japan’s currency has advanced 9.4 percent this year, the
biggest gain among its developed-world counterparts, according
to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indices. The euro has
dropped 7.6 percent, while the dollar is up 2.8 percent.  
 “I don’t think the dollar-yen will fall much from here as
a downtrend of U.S. yields is easing,” said  Daisaku Ueno ,
president at Gaitame.Com Research Institute Ltd., a unit of
Japan’s largest currency margin company.  
 Treasury two-year note  yields  were at 0.657 percent after
rising as much as six basis points yesterday, the biggest
intraday climb since June 10. They touched a record low 0.5516
percent on July 23.  
 Bank of Japan board member  Hidetoshi Kamezaki  highlighted
economic risks of a rising yen and said the bank will act
proactively to combat deflation, a more aggressive stance than
his colleagues have indicated.  
 Economy Risks  
 “We need to recognize the impact of the weaker euro and
stronger yen on the competitiveness of exporters and the impact
of instability of financial markets on companies’ fund-raising
activities as downside risks to the economy,” Kamezaki said
today in a speech in Sapporo.  
 The Australian dollar dropped against all of its 16 major
counterparts after the Bureau of Statistics said consumer prices
rose 0.6 percent in the second quarter from the previous three
months. The median estimate of 21 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was for a gain of 1 percent.  
 “There’s very little pressure now on the Reserve Bank of
Australia to raise next week though rate rises are still
possible later in the year,” said  Joseph Capurso , a currency
strategist in Sydney at Commonwealth Bank of Australia. “The
Aussie-kiwi will move a bit lower as the RBNZ should be raising
more than the RBA, closing that interest-rate gap.”  
 The Reserve Bank of Australia is forecast to keep the
benchmark interest rate at 4.5 percent on Aug. 3, the median
estimate of economists in a Bloomberg survey showed. The
nation’s policy makers signaled last week they are watching
 inflation  as they consider whether to resume rate increases
after leaving borrowing costs unchanged in June and July.  
 Australia’s dollar dropped 0.9 percent to 89.39 U.S. cents.
It reached 90.69 cents yesterday, the most since May 10.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 Kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        