-- Ex-National Century Executives Win Part of Appeal, Must Be Sentenced Again
-- Margaret Cronin Fisk
-- 2010-07-28T21:31:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/ex-national-century-executives-win-part-of-appeal-must-be-sentenced-again.html

          
          
             Two ex-National Century Financial
Enterprises Inc. executives won reversals of money-laundering
convictions and must be resentenced, an appeals court said,
while upholding convictions for fraud.  
 Donald Ayers , former chief operating officer, and  Roger Faulkenberry , former director of securitizations for National
Century, were accused of plotting to defraud investors before
the collapse of the health-care finance company. They were
convicted on all counts in March 2008.  
 Ayers was sentenced to 15 years for money laundering and
five years for each fraud count including wire and securities
fraud and conspiracy. Faulkenberry was sentenced to 10 years for
money laundering and five years for each other count. All the
sentences were to run concurrently. Both men appealed.  
 “We conclude there was ample evidence to vindicate the
jury’s finding of guilt as to the fraud counts,” U.S. Circuit
Judge  Ray Kethledge  in Cincinnati wrote in a 22-page decision on
Faulkenberry’s appeal. “But money laundering is a different
animal than fraud and we conclude that the government did not
prove money laundering here.”  
 The court today issued a separate decision on Ayers’
appeal, also upholding the fraud convictions, reversing the
money laundering one and returning the case to the trial court
for resentencing.  
 ‘Definitely Pleased’  
 “We’re definitely pleased with the reversal on the money
laundering count,”  Brian Dickerson , Ayers’ lawyer, said. “We
are going to wait to see if the government asks for an en banc
review,” -- a hearing by the full appellate court -- before
determining Ayers’ next options, he said.  
 Martin Weinberg , who represents Faulkenberry, said the
decision will put limits on federal prosecutors’ use of money
laundering charges to enhance sentences. His client hasn’t yet
decided whether to appeal the court’s decision upholding the
fraud conviction, he said in a phone interview today.  
 Kethledge said that National Century Financial Enterprises
defrauded investors of more than $2.4 billion.  
 National Century, based in Dublin, Ohio, bought accounts
receivables from health care providers at a discount, then sold
bonds backed by those receivables to investors. Many of the
receivables were worthless, Kethledge said today.  
 ‘Fronted Monies’  
 National Century “routinely advanced funds to healthcare
providers without obtaining any receivables, much less eligible
ones, in return,” he wrote. The company “apparently just
fronted these monies -- investor monies -- with the hope that
someday the provider would pay them back.”  
 U.S. prosecutors said that company executives falsified
financial reports, lied to auditors and advanced funds to
providers owned by Ayers and National Century Chief Executive
Officer  Lance Poulsen . Ten executives were convicted at trial or
pleaded guilty. Poulsen was sentenced last year to 30 years in
prison. An appeal of his conviction and sentence is pending.  
 The cases are U.S. v. Faulkenberry, 08-4233/4404, and U.S.
v. Ayers, 08-4166, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit
(Cincinnati).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan,
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        