-- Export Development Canada Plans to Issue More Kangaroo Bonds After Debut
-- Sarah McDonald
-- 2010-07-28T05:59:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/export-development-canada-plans-to-issue-more-kangaroo-bonds-after-debut.html

          
          
             Export Development Canada, the North
American nation’s export-financing arm, plans to issue further
kangaroo bonds after its first sale today.  
 EDC is “aiming to become a regular issuer in Australia,”
Vice President and Treasurer  Brian Laffin  said in an e-mailed
response to questions. Our “natural funding requirements are in
the three- to five-year sector and we would consider either
fixed or floating opportunities,” he said.  
 The lender, based in Ottawa, is joining other AAA rated
borrowers including the European Investment Bank and the World
Bank in seeking to tap demand for kangaroo notes, or debt sold
in Australia in the local currency by offshore entities. Sales
of the securities have totaled A$23.7 billion ($21.2 billion)
this year, a more than threefold increase on the same period a
year earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 EDC sold A$650 million of five-year kangaroo bonds, pricing
the notes to yield 70 basis points more than similar-maturity
government debt, according to an e-mailed statement from
Commonwealth Bank of Australia, which helped manage the sale.  
 The borrower monitored the kangaroo bond market for a
decade and made its debut after deciding new bank liquidity
rules being contemplated in Australia would help create
sustainable investor demand for the debt, Laffin said.  
 Australia’s banking regulator, the Australian Prudential
Regulation Authority, said in a  paper  last year it may allow
some securities other than Australian sovereign bonds to qualify
as liquid assets because there isn’t enough domestic government
debt on issue to satisfy requirements. APRA will give an update
on its regulatory plans at a Sept. 6 seminar in Sydney, said
spokesman Andrew McCutcheon.  
 Kangaroo bonds may be a possible source of high quality
liquid assets to help lenders meet tougher rules relating to the
size and type of buffer they must hold to protect depositors,
Kevin Davis, a professor of finance at the University of
Melbourne,  said  in a March 15 report.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McDonald  in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        