-- Facebook Wins Infringement Trial as Jury Finds Leader Patent Is Invalid
-- Phil Milford
-- 2010-07-28T19:51:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/facebook-wins-infringement-trial-as-jury-finds-leader-patent-is-invalid.html

          
          
             Facebook Inc., owner of the world’s
most popular social-networking site, won a patent case brought
by  Leader Technologies Inc.  when a jury held the competitor’s
patent invalid.  
 Leader sued Palo Alto, California-based Facebook in
Wilmington, Delaware, in 2008 seeking royalties and an order to
stop the alleged infringement. The trial began July 19.  
 “We thank the jury for listening carefully to all the
facts,” Facebook general counsel  Ted Ullyot  said in a
statement. “From the day this lawsuit was filed, we said the
patent was invalid.”  
 Paul J. Andre,  a lawyer for Westerville, Ohio-based Leader,
said he’s confident the ruling “will not stand” in further
litigation.  
 The patent, for managing electronically stored data, was
awarded to inventors Michael McKibben and Jeffrey R. Lamb in
2006.  
 Leader was founded by McKibben in 1997. It develops
Internet-based systems to help businesses manage e-mail, voice
mail, teleconferencing and video data, according to the
company’s website.  
 Facebook was started in 2004 by Harvard University
undergraduate  Mark Zuckerberg . It reportedly had 2009 revenue of
more than $700 million.  
 Patent Claims Infringed  
 In its decision, the jury also ruled that Facebook’s
technology did infringe claims of the patent. Under U.S. patent
law, an invalid patent cannot be infringed.  
 “All these cases end up on appeal,” said  Alexander Poltorak , chief executive officer of patent-licensing firm
General Patent Corp. of Suffern, New York, who’s been following
the case and said he has no dealings with the two litigants.  
 The invalidity ruling was based on the jury’s determination
that Leader failed to file its patent application within a year
of offering the invention for sale, as required by law.  
 Poltorak said such a finding “is very difficult to reverse
on appeal. There’s no way to overcome it.”  
 The trial was supervised by U.S. Magistrate Judge  Leonard Stark .  
 The case is Leader Technologies Inc. v. Facebook Inc., 08-
cv-862, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 To see the patent: 7,139,761.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Phil Milford  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        