-- Fallen Soldiers' Families Denied Cash as Insurers Profit
-- David Evans
-- 2010-07-28T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/fallen-soldiers-families-denied-cash-payout-as-life-insurers-boost-profit.html

          
          
             The package arrived at Cindy
Lohman’s home in Great Mills, Maryland, just two weeks after she
learned that her son, Ryan, a 24-year-old Army sergeant, had
been killed by a bomb in Afghanistan. It was a thick, 9-inch-by-
12-inch envelope from  Prudential Financial Inc ., which handles
life insurance for the Department of Veterans Affairs.  
 Inside was a letter from Prudential about Ryan’s $400,000
policy. And there was something else, which looked like a
checkbook. The letter told Lohman that the full amount of her
payout would be placed in a convenient interest-bearing account,
allowing her time to decide how to use the benefit.  
 “You can hold the money in the account for safekeeping for
as long as you like,” the letter said. In tiny print, in a
disclaimer that Lohman says she didn’t notice, Prudential
disclosed that what it called its Alliance Account was not
guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., Bloomberg
Markets magazine reports in its September issue.  
 Lohman, 52, left the money untouched for six months after
her son’s August 2008 death.  
 “It’s like you’re paying me off because my child was
killed,” she says. “It was a consolation prize that I didn’t
want.”  
 As time went on, she says, she tried to use one of the
“checks” to buy a bed, and the salesman rejected it. That
happened again this year, she says, when she went to a  Target 
store to purchase a camera on Armed Forces Day, May 15.  
 ‘I’m Shocked’  
 Lohman, a public health nurse who helps special-needs
children, says she had always believed that her son’s life
insurance funds were in a bank insured by the FDIC. That money
-- like $28 billion in 1 million death-benefit accounts managed
by insurers -- wasn’t actually sitting in a bank.  
 It was being held in Prudential’s general corporate
account, earning investment income for the insurer. Prudential
paid survivors like Lohman 1 percent interest in 2008 on their
Alliance Accounts, while it earned a 4.8 percent return on its
corporate funds, according to regulatory filings.  
 “I’m shocked,” says Lohman, breaking into tears as she
learns how the Alliance Account works. “It’s a betrayal. It
saddens me as an American that a company would stoop so low as
to make a profit on the death of a soldier. Is there anything
lower than that?”  
 Millions of bereaved Americans have unwittingly been placed
in the same position by their insurance companies. The practice
of issuing what they call “checkbooks” to survivors, instead
of paying them lump sums, extends well beyond the military.  
 Touching Americans  
 In the past decade, these so-called retained-asset accounts
have become standard operating procedure in an industry that
touches virtually every American: There are more than
300 million active life insurance policies in the U.S., and the
industry holds $4.6 trillion in assets, according to the
American Council of Life Insurers.  
 Insurance companies tell survivors that their money is put
in a secure account. Neither  Prudential  nor  MetLife Inc ., the
largest life insurer in the U.S., segregates death benefits into
a separate fund.  
 Newark, New Jersey-based Prudential, the second-largest
life insurer, holds payouts in its own general account,
according to regulatory filings.  
 New York-based MetLife has told survivors in a standard
letter: “To help you through what can be a very difficult,
emotional and confusing time, we created a settlement option,
the Total Control Account Money Market Option. It is guaranteed
by MetLife.”  
 No FDIC Insurance  
 The company’s letter omits that the money is in MetLife’s
corporate investment account, isn’t in a bank and has no FDIC
insurance.  
 “All guarantees are subject to the financial strength and
claims-paying ability of MetLife,” it says.  
 Both MetLife, which handles insurance for nonmilitary
federal employees, and Prudential paid 0.5 percent interest in
July to survivors of government workers and soldiers. That’s
less than half of the rate available at some banks with accounts
insured by the FDIC up to $250,000.  
 Bank of  New York Mellon Corp.  handles the paperwork and
monthly statements for customers with MetLife “checking
accounts.” The insurance company, not the bank, most recently
reported holding about $10 billion in death benefits, in 2008.  
 The “checkbook” system cheats the families of those who
die, says Jeffrey Stempel, an insurance law professor at the
William S. Boyd School of Law at the University of Nevada, Las
Vegas, who wrote ‘ Stempel on Insurance Contracts ’ (Aspen
Publishers, 2009).  
 ‘Bad Faith’  
 “It’s institutionalized bad faith,” he says. “In my
view, this is a scheme to defraud by inducing the policyholder’s
beneficiary to let the life insurance company retain assets
they’re not entitled to. It’s turning death claims into a profit
center.”  
 Prudential’s Alliance Account is helpful to families of
soldiers, says company spokesman  Bob DeFillippo .  
 “For some families, the account is the difference between
earning interest on a large amount of money and letting it sit
idle,” he says. Prudential follows the law, he says.  
 “We fully and regularly disclose the nature and terms of
the account to account holders,” DeFillippo says. “We make it
clear that the money can be withdrawn at any time by simply
writing a draft.”  
 Metlife spokesman Joseph Madden says his company’s
customers are very happy with the Total Control Account.  
 ‘Overwhelmingly Positive’  
 “The feedback from TCA customers has been overwhelmingly
positive,” he says. “The TCA affords beneficiaries security,
peace of mind and time to make an informed decision -- while
earning interest in the interim.”  
 Madden says the company was paying some survivors
0.5 percent in July while some others got 1.5 percent or
3 percent, depending on the age and origin of insurance
accounts. The accounts don’t violate any laws, Madden says, and
are authorized by  New York  state insurance law.  
 Insurers are holding onto at least $28 billion owed to
survivors, according to three firms that handle retained-asset
accounts for about 130 life insurance companies. There are no
public records showing how much companies are holding in these
accounts.  
 The “checks” that Cindy Lohman wrote, the ones rejected
by retailers, were actually drafts, or IOUs, issued by
Prudential. Even though the “checks” had the name of  JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  on them, Lohman’s funds weren’t in that bank; they
were held by Prudential.  
 Federal Bank Law  
 Before a check could clear, Prudential would have to send
money to JPMorgan, bank spokesman John Murray says.  
 Insurance companies -- in addition to holding onto the
money of survivors, paying them uncompetitive interest rates and
giving them misleading guarantees -- may be violating a federal
bank law. A 1933 statute makes it a felony for any company to
accept deposits without state or federal authorization.  
 That means only banks or credit unions can accept deposits,
says  Arthur Wilmarth , a professor at  George Washington 
University Law School in Washington who has testified before
Congress about banking regulations.  
 If a prosecutor pressed an insurance company, retained-
asset accounts could be outlawed because insurers say they
deposit money into these accounts and don’t have bank charters
or banking regulation, Wilmarth says. MetLife also offers its
own version of certificates of deposit.  
 “If it swims, quacks and flies like a duck, the court
could decide that it is indeed a duck,” he says. “You then
potentially could have a criminal violation.”  
 Potential Bank Run  
 This unregulated quasi-banking system operated by insurers
has none of the protections of the actual banking system.
Lawrence Baxter, a professor at  Duke University School of Law  in
Durham, North Carolina, says the potential exists for a
catastrophe.  
 If one insurer is unable to meet its obligations on
retained-asset accounts, people could lose faith in other
companies and demand immediate payment, triggering a panic, says
Baxter, who has consulted with federal agencies on financial
regulation.  
 The government established the  FDIC  in 1933 after frantic
depositors tried to pull their money from banks. The federal
government has no such program for death-benefit accounts.  
 “There’s more than $25 billion out there in these
accounts,” Baxter says. “A run could be triggered immediately
by one insurance company not being able to honor its payout. The
whole point of creating the FDIC was to put an end to bank
runs.”  
 No Federal Regulation  
 The sweeping financial regulatory legislation signed by
President  Barack Obama  on July 21 doesn’t address retained-asset
accounts. It creates a new federal insurance office, which won’t
be a regulator. It will collect information, monitor the
industry for systemic risk and consult with state insurance
regulators.  
 An industry with $19.1 trillion in potential liabilities
will remain unregulated by the federal government. In 2008,
insurers approved claims totaling $60 billion in death benefits,
according to the life insurance council.  
 The federal government doesn’t even regulate the life
insurance it supplies, via MetLife, to its own employees in a
program called Federal Employees’ Group Life Insurance. As the
VA does for soldiers, the U.S.  Office of Personnel Management 
sends handbooks to nonmilitary government workers -- some 4
million active employees and retirees.  
 The handbook says their life insurance policies
automatically pay out death benefits in the form of a “money-
market-account checkbook.” The  217-page handbook  omits that the
money isn’t FDIC insured and will stay with MetLife until
someone writes a “check.”  
 ‘Unfair Advantage’  
 This lack of disclosure is unconscionable, says Harvey
Goldschmid, a commissioner of the U.S.  Securities and Exchange
Commission  from 2002 to 2005.  
 “I can’t imagine why bank regulators haven’t been
requiring a prominent ‘no FDIC insurance’ disclosure,” says
Goldschmid, who’s now a law professor at  Columbia University  in
New York. “This system works very badly for the bereaved. It
takes unfair advantage of people at their time of weakness.”  
 The closest relative to retained-asset accounts may be
money-market  mutual funds , which are pools of cash invested in
short-term debt securities.  
 Money Market Rules  
 The SEC requires fund companies to warn investors that
money market funds don’t have FDIC insurance. It also mandates
that fund managers provide a prospectus, that they invest in
specific types of safe debt and that they post a detailed
schedule of their investments monthly on their websites.  
 Insurers’ retained-asset accounts have none of those
regulatory protections.  
 A June 2009 MetLife standard condolence letter to survivors
leaves out that accounts aren’t in a bank and aren’t federally
insured. In June 2010, 25 years after MetLife invented retained-
asset accounts, the company released a customer agreement that
does disclose that retained assets aren’t in a money market
account nor in a bank and that they have no FDIC insurance.  
 “The assets backing the Total Control Accounts are
maintained in MetLife’s general account and are subject to
MetLife’s creditors,” the agreement says. That language
contradicts the federal employee handbook, which says survivors
get a money market account.  
 Gerry Goldsholle, the man who invented retained-asset
accounts, says MetLife makes $100 million to $300 million a year
from investment returns on the death benefits it holds. A former
president of MetLife Marketing Corp., Goldsholle, 69, devised
the accounts in 1984. He’s now a  lawyer  in private practice in
Sausalito, California.  
 ‘This Is Crazy’  
 Goldsholle says he pondered the billions of dollars of
death-benefit proceeds the company paid out each year.  
 “I looked at this and said this is crazy,” says
Goldsholle, who left the firm in 1991. “What are we doing to
retain some of this money? It’s very expensive to bring money
in the front door of an insurance company. You’re paying very
large commissions and sales expenses.”  
 So he came up with a way for MetLife to hold onto death
benefits.  
 “The company would win because we would make a nice
spread on the money,” Goldsholle says, while customers would
earn interest on their accounts. MetLife, he says, can earn 1 to
3 percentage points more from its investment income -- mostly
from bonds -- than it pays out to survivors.  
 Misconceptions  
 The accounts Goldsholle invented have spread much faster
than the ability of state regulators to track them -- or even to
understand how they work. Ted Hamby, North Carolina’s deputy
insurance commissioner for  life and health , says he believes
retained-asset accounts have FDIC protection.  
 “Whatever money is on deposit in that checking account
will be insured, up to the limits of the FDIC,” he says. He’s
wrong. No retained-asset accounts have FDIC coverage.  
 In  Connecticut , where 106 insurance companies are based,
state insurance department manager for  market conduct  Kurt Swan
also says that retained-asset accounts are kept in banks, with
FDIC coverage.  
 “I think they’re just trying to offer some flexibility to
the beneficiary,” he says. Swan and his colleague, William
Arfanis, the department’s principal financial examiner, both say
the insurers don’t profit from the retained-asset accounts. That
too is wrong. The companies do earn investment gains on death
benefits.  
 Some Rules  
 Just six states had any rules for retained-asset accounts
as of July 2009, according to the National Association of
Insurance Commissioners.  Arkansas ,  Colorado , Kansas, Nevada ,
North Carolina  and  North Dakota  require insurers to disclose
fees and interest rates and to tell survivors they may withdraw
all of the money by writing a single check.  
 Maryland, which isn’t on the NAIC list, also has  rules .  
 Pennsylvania Insurance Commissioner  Joel Ario , whose state
has no rules for retained-asset accounts, says he has asked his
staff to prepare a regulation forbidding insurance companies
from using such accounts as the default method of paying a death
claim.  
 “I haven’t heard a plausible argument about why these
accounts are better for the consumer,” Ario says.  
 If state insurance regulators have paid scant attention to
retained-asset accounts, state bank regulators have taken an
even more hands-off approach.  
 ‘Not Drawn Attention’  
 “Quite honestly, we deal with issues that our members
want us to deal with,” says Michael Stevens, senior vice
president for regulatory policy at the Washington-based
 Conference of State Bank Supervisors . “This is not one that has
drawn their attention.”  
 Three companies have not only noticed but have also
profited by handling retained-asset accounts for insurers. Open
Solutions Inc., based in Glastonbury, Connecticut, oversees
400,000 accounts for 67 insurance companies.  
 Open Solutions  sends out  “checkbooks,”  prints periodic
statements and computes accrued interest for accounts with total
deposits of $10 billion, says Jay Woldar, director of sales and
account management at Open Solutions.  
 One of its competitors, Bank of New York Mellon,
administers more than 500,000 retained-asset accounts holding a
total of $14 billion, including MetLife’s retained assets.
Chicago-based  Northern Trust Corp.  handles about $4 billion in
125,000 accounts, spokesman John O’Connell says.  
 Survivors generally don’t touch these accounts immediately.  
 Accounts Stay Opened  
 “About 40 percent of the money stays in for more than a
year,” Woldar says. Insurers can have use of survivors’ money
for years, even decades, says Randi Lichtenstein, a product line
manager at Bank of New York.  
 “They can stick around for quite a while,” she says.
“There are accounts that all insurance companies have on these
platforms that go back 10, 15, 20 years.”  
 MetLife’s Madden says most of its customers’ retained-asset
accounts are closed within one year. About 28 percent of
survivors of soldiers and veterans keep their retained-asset
accounts open for more than two years, the VA says.  
 During a routine audit completed in 2004, the New York
State Insurance Department found that 1,476 retained-asset
accounts, worth a total of $33.5 million, at Hartford,
Connecticut-based  Phoenix Life Insurance Co. , had been dormant
for more than three years.  
 In New York, funds in an account that remains dormant for
more than three years may be turned over to the state. Phoenix
spokeswoman  Alice Ericson  says the company now has a policy of
sending letters to people whose accounts have been inactive for
two years.  
 Inactive Accounts  
 Almost one-third of the 6,890 retained-asset accounts run
by  Mony Life Insurance Co.  were inactive for more than three
years, New York auditors found in 2002. Mony is now owned by  Axa
SA , Europe’s second-largest insurer by market value.  
 A few people have sued insurers over the use of retained-
asset accounts. Prudential won a lawsuit in 2009 in which a
survivor complained about the Alliance Account. MetLife has a
case pending in which a survivor says that she was cheated by
the retained-asset account. In court-filed papers, MetLife
denies any wrongdoing.  
 There has been only one ruling by a federal appellate court
on the substance of such accounts -- and it went against an
insurance company.  
 After a federal judge in Boston dismissed a policyholder
suit claiming that Chattanooga, Tennessee-based insurer  Unum
Group  was stealing account earnings from survivors, the U.S.
Court of Appeals for the First Circuit  overruled the lower court 
in 2008. It reinstated the case.  
 ‘Euphemistically Named’  
 “The euphemistically named ‘Security Account,’ accompanied
with a checkbook, was no more than an IOU which did not transfer
the funds to which the beneficiaries were entitled out of the
plan assets,” the three-judge panel wrote.  
 Unum spokeswoman Mary Clarke Guenther says retained-asset
accounts are a commonly accepted practice in the industry.
The case is pending.  
 Absent regulatory or legal intervention, bereaved family
members like Cindy Lohman will continue to find death benefits
going into retained-asset accounts. Her son, Ryan, posthumously
received a  Purple Heart  and  Bronze Star  Medal for sacrificing
his life to save fellow soldiers in Afghanistan in August 2008.  
 He had ordered a  Humvee  to swerve to avoid an explosive
device, exposing himself to its deadly blast.  
 ‘Accept The Reality’  
 Three days after learning of her son’s death, Lohman says,
an Army  casualty assistance officer  came to her home, explaining
that Ryan had a life insurance policy and that her signature was
needed to release the money.  
 “By signing that, it forced me to accept the reality that
he was dead and not coming back,” she says.  
 Since 1999, the VA has allowed Prudential to send survivors
“checkbooks” tied to its Alliance Account. In 2009 alone, the
families of U.S. soldiers and veterans were supposed to be paid
death benefits totaling $1 billion immediately, according to
their insurance policies. They weren’t.  
 Prudential’s VA policies promise either a lump sum payout
or 36 monthly payments. About 90 percent of survivors, including
Lohman, choose to receive the full amount upfront. When they do,
they don’t get a check; they get a “checkbook.”  
 Under a  2008 law , survivors covered by Prudential’s VA
policy are allowed one year to put death benefits into a Roth
IRA, allowing them to earn investment gains for the rest of
their lives tax-free. Prudential never informed Lohman, she
says.  
 ‘If They Had Told Me’  
 “I definitely would have done that if they had told me,”
Lohman says.  
 Even Stephen Wurtz, deputy assistant director for insurance
at the VA, who has overseen the insurance program for 25 years,
has been kept in the dark by Prudential.  
 “Prudential runs the program on a cost-reimbursement
basis only,” he initially said, referring to the $4.2 million
in fees the VA paid Prudential in 2009. “They’re really good
guys. They do it patriotically. They don’t make any money from
the Alliance Account.”  
 Wurtz, 62, said he had believed that the Alliance Account
money went into a bank. After he learned that the payouts
actually stayed in Prudential’s general fund, Wurtz says, he
asked Prudential how much money the insurance company made from
these accounts and how many dollars it held in retained assets.  
 Prudential declined to answer, saying that information was
proprietary, Wurtz says.  
 ‘Maybe I Didn’t’  
 Prudential, which has had the insurance  contract  with the
VA since 1965, pitched the checkbook payout to the VA in 1999 as
an added benefit to survivors, Wurtz says. The government agency
accepted Prudential’s offer, he says.  
 “Maybe I didn’t ask enough questions,” he says.  
 Printed on each “check,” next to “Prudential’s Alliance
Account” is the name of JPMorgan, the second-biggest U.S. bank
by assets. JPMorgan spokesman Murray declined to say how much
the bank is paid for its role with Prudential.  
 The way Prudential has set up the “checks” implies that
JPMorgan stands behind the accounts and that they are thus
backed by the FDIC, Duke’s Baxter says.  
 “That’s misleading the beneficiaries,” he says.  
 “We disclose the roles of all companies involved in
administering these accounts,” Prudential’s DeFillippo says.
JPMorgan’s Murray declined to comment.  
 Prudential’s general account earned 4.4 percent in 2009,
mostly from bond investments, according to  SEC filings . The
company has paid survivors 0.5 percent in 2010.  
 ‘It’s Shameful’  
 “It’s shameful that an insurance company is stealing money
from the families of our fallen servicemen,” says Paul
Sullivan, who served in the 1991 Gulf War as an Army cavalry
scout and is now executive director of  Veterans for Common
Sense , a nonprofit advocacy group based in Washington. “I’m
outraged.”  
 Sullivan, a project manager at the VA’s benefits unit from
2000 to 2006, says he was never told Prudential kept money and
earned investment gains from soldiers’ insurance payouts instead
of sending it to survivors.  
 “There shouldn’t be secret profits,” he says. “This
should be transparent. The lack of oversight is appalling.”  
 It’s not much different for the 4 million nonmilitary U.S.
government employees and retirees -- including staff of the FDIC
-- covered by MetLife policies. That  program , begun in 1965,
averages more than $2 billion in death benefits claimed every
year, the government says.  
 Payouts are handled by the Office of Federal Employees’
Group Life Insurance. That makes it look like the government is
taking care of its employees’ insurance coverage. It isn’t. That
“office” is a unit of MetLife.  
 MetLife Holds the Money  
 Edmund Byrnes, a spokesman for the  Office of Personnel
Management , which oversees MetLife’s federal employee contract,
says MetLife segregates death benefits into beneficiary accounts
after it approves death claims.  
 “Once MetLife transfers the funds to the Total Control
Account, the monies are no longer under MetLife’s control,”
Byrnes says.  
 MetLife spokesman Madden says something different.  
 “The assets that back the liabilities on all the TCAs are
placed in MetLife’s general account,” he says.  
 Back at the  Veterans Affairs office , Deputy Assistant
Director Wurtz, who’s a civilian employee, says he now
understands for the first time that since he’s covered by the
federal insurance program, his own wife could receive a MetLife
“checkbook” someday.  
 ‘Ripping Off Their Own’  
 “Uncle Sam is ripping off their own,” Wurtz says. “My
wife would get the money, and they would blood-suck some of it
out of her.”  
 It took Wurtz, who’s been working with insurers for most of
his career, more than a decade to understand how retained-asset
accounts work. Companies like MetLife and Prudential have never
told millions of Americans with insurance policies that when
they die, the insurer plans to hold their family’s money in its
own account to make investment gains from the death benefit.  
 “It’s outrageous that somebody’s profiting off other
people’s grief,” says Mark Umbrell of Doylestown, Pennsylvania.
His 26-year-old son,  Colby , an Army Airborne Ranger who earned a
Bronze Star and a Purple Heart, was killed in Iraq in May 2007.
Umbrell was among those who got a “checkbook” account.  
 “I think we’re being taken,” he says.  
 The question for Umbrell, Lohman and a million others with
these accounts is whether anything will change. State bank
regulators say if there are to be any reforms, they should be
made by insurance departments. Officials at those state agencies
often say they don’t even understand what a retained-asset
account is.  
 “It’s flown under the radar,” professor Stempel says.
“Regulators have not done their job.”  
 Until public officials wake up, the bereaved will remain a
secret profit center for the life insurance industry.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Evans  in Los Angeles at 
 davidevans@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Cindy Lohman holds a photo of her late son, Ryan, on the grounds of Monocacy National Battlefield in Frederick, Maryland, on July 9, 2010. Photographer: Bill Cramer/Bloomberg Markets via Bloomberg  
                   
    


 
     
         
             Chart:  How Insurers Profit From Death Benefits
         
     
 



 
     
         
             Chart:  Banks in Disguise
         
     
 



 
     
         
             Chart:  MetLife's $2 Billion Ace
         
     
 



 
     
         Attachment:  Sample Alliance Account Kit 
     
 


 
     
         Audio Download:  Jeffrey Stempel Discusses `Institutionalized Bad Faith' 
     
 


 
     
         Audio Download:  Goldsholle on the Invention of Retained-Asset Accounts 
     
 


 
     
         Audio Download:  Duping the Families of Fallen Soldiers: Markets Magazine 
     
 


 
     
         Audio Download:  Duping the Families of Fallen Soldiers: Markets Magazine 
     
         

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
