-- FCStone Group Plans Expansion of Australian Commodity Business, CEO Says
-- Wendy Pugh
-- 2010-07-28T00:30:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/fcstone-group-plans-expansion-of-australian-commodity-business-ceo-says.html

          
          
             FCStone Group Inc. plans to double
its commodities staffing in Australia within the next two or
three years as demand for risk management increases, Chief
Executive Officer  Pete Anderson  said.  
 Consultant, broker and commodity management staff numbers
in Australia, the fourth-largest wheat exporter, would rise from
six and “over time” could reach about 20 people offering
services mainly in grains and also in energy, Anderson said
yesterday. Kansas City, Missouri-based  FCStone  is a unit of
 International Assets Holding Corp.   
 The end of Australia’s wheat export monopoly two years ago
has widened marketing opportunities and attracted global
commodity companies including FCStone. Commodity prices,
measured by the  Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index , rose to a record in
2008 before plunging amid the global recession. The index has
gained about 5 percent in the past 12 months.  
 “There is so much demand for commodities around the world
that there is going to be continued volatility going forward and
you have to be prepared to manage your exposure,” Anderson said
in an interview at a conference in Melbourne.  
 The company opened an office in Sydney last year, he said.
It bought the risk management business of Adelaide-based
Australian agricultural company Elders Ltd. in January 2009.  
 In Asia, the company has offices in Singapore and Beijing
and is expanding into Shanghai. There are also opportunities in
Europe as subsidies are cut, Anderson said.  
 “There is basically a demand for education and risk
management development across Europe and we have an office in
London and Dublin that we are going to leverage,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wendy Pugh  in Melbourne at 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        