-- Ferro Plans Debt as Profits Renew Investors' Risk Appetite: New Bond Alert
-- Tim Catts
-- 2010-07-28T10:00:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/ferro-plans-debt-as-profits-renew-investors-risk-appetite-new-bond-alert.html

          
          
             Ferro Corp. , the Cleveland-based
maker of porcelain enamel for cookware and appliances, is
marketing debt as investors gain confidence company profits will
continue to grow.  
 Ferro plans to sell $250 million of notes and use proceeds
to redeem its convertible debt due in 2013, it said in a
statement distributed by Business Wire.  
 Sales of corporate debt are accelerating as 82 percent of
companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index beat analysts’
earnings estimates, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Investors are regaining their appetite for riskier securities as
they wager that Europe’s sovereign debt crisis is contained and
the financial regulatory overhaul won’t derail the economic
recovery, said  Eric Peiffer , managing director at KeyBanc
Capital Markets.  
 “For a while, the headlines had the most impact on the
market, macroeconomics the second-most and fundamentals came
third, even though they were very good,” said Peiffer, who is
based in Cleveland. “The order of things has totally reversed
itself over the past two or three weeks.”  
 The extra yield investors demand to own high-yield, high-
risk debt fell 11 basis points to 643 basis points, the least
since May 17, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch
U.S. High Yield Master II Index. Yields on the debt fell 5 basis
points to 8.54 percent, the index data show.  
 High-yield, high-risk bonds are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and BBB- by Standard & Poor’s. A basis point
is 0.01 percentage point.  
 Spreads Fall  
 Spreads on investment-grade corporate debt fell 4 basis
points to 187 basis points while yields rose 1 basis point to
4.15 percent, Bank of American Merrill Lynch index data show.  
 Ferro’s debt sale comes after Advanced Micro Devices Inc.,
the second-largest maker of microprocessors, sold $500 million
of senior notes due in 2020 on July 26, also to help fund a
tender offer for convertible senior notes, Bloomberg data show.  
 AT&T Inc. sold $2.25 billion of five-year notes and
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce issued $1 billion of covered
bonds as it reopened two earlier offerings, leading $3.75
billion of investment-grade sales yesterday, Bloomberg data
show.  
 Air Canada sold $1.09 billion of debt denominated in U.S.
and Canadian dollars in yesterday’s biggest high-yield sale.  
 Corporate bond sales of $12.3 billion through yesterday
compare with $3.69 billion through the first two days of last
week, Bloomberg data show. It was the fastest start to a week
since the period ended June 22, the data show.  
 Following is a description of at least $5.68 billion of
pending sales of dollar-denominated bonds in the U.S.  
 Investment Grade  
 DOHA BANK QSC, Qatar’s third-largest bank, may raise as
much as $1 billion from bond sales, its chief executive officer
said. The money is likely to be raised for five years and is
meant to “fix the maturity mismatch” on the bank’s balance
sheet,  Raghavan Seetharaman  said in a June 16 telephone
interview from Doha. The bank will sell the bonds by the end of
this year in both dollars and the local riyal currency, the CEO
said in a July 25 interview. The lender said in April that it
planned to sell senior notes in dollars in a statement on the
Qatari bourse, without disclosing the size of the offering.  
 CHILE hired JPMorgan Chase & Co, Citigroup Inc. and HSBC
Holdings Plc to arrange the country’s first international bond
sale in six years, Finance Minister Felipe Larrain said. Chile
will use proceeds of the 10-year bonds to help finance
rebuilding after a February earthquake, Larrain said. The
government plans to sell $1 billion of the securities in dollars
and $500 million “denominated in pesos,” Larrain said. Moody’s
upgraded Chile to Aa3 from A1 on June 16, citing “economic and
financial resilience even in the face of major adverse shocks,
including February’s historic earthquake.” S&P graded the
proposed notes A+.  
 FORETHOUGHT FINANCIAL GROUP INC. plans to sell $150 million
of 10-year bonds, according to a person familiar with the
transaction, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t
set. S&P assigned the notes a grade of BBB- in a March 24
report.  
 Not Rated  
 STERICYCLE INC.  plans to issue $175 million of 7-year, 3.89
percent notes and $225 million of 10-year, 4.47 percent debt
after receiving commitments from 22 institutional investors to
buy the securities, it said in a statement distributed by
Business Wire.  
 The PROVINCE OF CORDOBA, Argentina, plans to sell as much
as $350 million of bonds in international markets once the
federal government completes a restructuring of defaulted debt,
Banco de Cordoba said. The province hired Citigroup Inc. and UBS
AG to arrange an overseas dollar bond sale, said a person
familiar with the transaction who declined to be identified
because terms aren’t set.  
 High Yield  
 BANCO PANAMERICANO SA, the lender controlled by media
magnate Silvio Santos, plans to sell $300 million of five-year
dollar bonds, according to a person familiar with the
transaction. The Sao Paulo-based bank hired Banco Bradesco SA,
Itau Unibanco Holding SA, Standard Bank Group Ltd. and UBS AG to
arrange the sale of senior unsecured notes, said the person, who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set. Moody’s
rates the notes Ba2, it said in a report.  
 MULTIPLAN INC. may sell $650 million to $675 million of
bonds to help pay for its acquisition by BC Partners Ltd. and
Silver Lake, according to a person familiar with the
transaction. The health-care cost management company also seeks
a $1.3 billion term loan and a $75 million revolving line of
credit, said the person, who declined to be identified because
terms aren’t set.  
 FERRO CORP. plans to sell $250 million of senior notes as
it seeks to repurchase outstanding convertible debt due in 2013.
The company also is negotiating with lenders to enter into a new
credit facility, according to a statement distributed by
Business Wire.  
 KCA DEUTAG DRILLING GROUP LTD., a unit of private-equity
investor First Reserve Corp., is planning to sell $500 million
of eight-year bonds through Turbo Beta Plc, according to Alex
Christou, an Aberdeen, Scotland-based spokesman for the oil-
services company. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is managing the sale
with HSBC Holdings Plc, Lloyds TSB Banking Group Plc, Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc and Natixis, a person with knowledge of
the transaction said. The notes may be rated CCC by S&P and Caa2
by Moody’s, according to a statement on the company’s website.  
 MARINA DISTRICT FINANCE COMPANY INC., owner of the Borgata
Hotel Casino & Spa in Atlantic City, plans to sell $725 million
of senior secured debt in two parts, according to a person
familiar with the transaction. The notes will be due in 2015 and
2018, said the person, who declined to be identified because
terms aren’t set. Marina District Finance is Boyd Gaming Corp.’s
joint venture with MGM Resorts International. Proceeds will be
used to repay bank debt and fund a dividend, the person said.  
 TRILOGY INTERNATIONAL PARTNERS LLC, the wireless
communications provider, plans to sell $370 million of senior
secured notes, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  Moody’s
rated the notes Caa1, it said in a report. Proceeds will be used
to refinance debt and finance growth in New Zealand, Moody’s
said. S&P rated the debt an equivalent CCC+. The notes will have
a maturity of six years, according to a person familiar with the
transaction, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t
set.  
 UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES INC., the operator of more than
100 U.S. medical facilities that’s buying Psychiatric Solutions
Inc., cut its offering of senior unsecured notes to $250
million, according to a person familiar with the transaction. It
increased the size of the term loans it’s seeking by $100
million, said the person, who declined to be identified because
terms aren’t set. The King of Prussia, Pennsylvania-based
company previously planned to issue $400 million of senior
unsecured debt to help finance the acquisition, according to a
filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  
 E-LAND FASHION CHINA HOLDINGS LTD, the Hong Kong-based
apparel products provider, hired Morgan Stanley to help it sell
$200 million of three-year bonds, according to a person familiar
with the matter. The company plans to begin meeting with
investors in Asia, Europe and the U.S. on July 19, said the
person who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.
Moody’s Investors Service assigned the proposed notes a Ba2,
citing growing personal consumption in China, E-Land Fashion’s
moderate scale and significant business volatility. Proceeds
will be used for mainly for capital expenditures and general
corporate purposes, Moody’s said in the report.  
 ENERGYSOLUTIONS INC. , the Salt Lake City-based nuclear
services company, has amended its credit facility and plans to
refinance that debt with borrowings under new loans and an
offering of senior notes, the company said July 13 in a
statement distributed by Marketwire. Standard & Poor’s assigned
the proposed $300 million senior unsecured notes due 2018 a BB-
on July 15.  
 GENTIVA HEALTH SERVICES INC. , the U.S. home-nursing
company that is buying Odyssey HealthCare Inc., plans to sell
$305 million of eight-year notes, the Atlanta-based company said
in a May 24 regulatory filing, without specifying the timing of
the transaction. Proceeds will be used to help fund the
takeover, according to the filing. Standard & Poor’s assigned
the unsecured notes a B- credit rating on June 29. Moody’s
Investors Service rated the notes a grade of B2 and ranked $925
million of loans three steps higher at Ba2, it said in a report.  
 INVENTIV HEALTH INC., the provider of sales and marketing
services to science companies that is being acquired by Thomas
H. Lee Partners, may sell $275 million of senior notes to back
the purchase, it said in a regulatory filing. Standard & Poor’s
assigned a B- rating to the proposed notes due 2018. Moody’s
Investors Service assigned them a Caa1.  
 Offerings in Pipeline  
 NATIONAL BANK OF EGYPT, the country’s largest lender, plans
to sell its first international bonds and is meeting with fixed-
income investors, according to three people familiar with the
plan. The Cairo-based bank may offer a benchmark-sized issue,
said a banker, who declined to be identified because terms
aren’t set. The lender received approval from Egypt’s central
bank to sell as much as $1.5 billion of bonds and is meeting
with investors in Asia, London, Germany, the Middle East, and
Eastern Europe, said a bank official, who declined to be
identified. Benchmark issues are typically for at least $500
million.  
 BANCO BMG S.A., a Brazilian lender specializing in loans to
state retirees and workers, plans to sell 10-year bonds in
dollars, according to a person familiar with the offering. The
Belo Horizonte-based bank hired Banco Bradesco SA, BCP
Securities, Morgan Stanley and Banco Santander SA to arrange the
sale, said the person, who declined to be identified because
terms aren’t set.  
 IDBI BANK LTD., an Indian state-owned lender, is
considering a sale of bonds denominated in U.S. dollars to raise
about $500 million, Executive Director Melwyn Rego said in an
interview on July 21. HSBC Holdings Plc and Barclays Plc have
been hired to oversee the bank’s medium-term note program, Rego
said. BNP Paribas SA, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and
Standard Chartered Plc will help manage this sale of benchmark
notes, to be done through its Dubai branch, he said. The bonds
may have a maturity of five to five-and-a-half years, said Rego.  
 CZECH REPUBLIC plans to sell as much as $2 billion of
dollar bonds to diversify from koruna and euro debt,  Eduard Janota , former finance minister, said in an interview for Mlada
Fronta Dnes  newspaper .  
 POTASH CORPORATION OF SASKATCHEWAN INC. , the world’s
largest fertilizer company by capacity, filed a registration
statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for
$2 billion of debt securities.  
 INDONESIA plans to name three banks to help it sell
approximately $650 million of Islamic bonds in October, Dahlan
Siamat, director for Islamic financing at the finance ministry,
said in a telephone interview in Jakarta. The government sold
its first international Islamic dollar bonds in April 2009.  
 OAO GAZPROMBANK , the lending unit of Russia’s gas export
monopoly, hired Barclays Capital, Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc, and UBS AG to organize meetings with investors in Europe
and Asia starting July 5, according to two people with knowledge
of the transaction.  
 CORPORACION FINANCIERA DE DESAROLLO SA Peru’s state
development bank known as Cofide, plans to sell as much as $250
million of dollar-denominated bonds, according to Chief
Financial Officer Carlos Linares. Linares said in an interview
in Lima, that the lender is selling long-term debt as it boosts
lending to local infrastructure projects. “Peru’s need for
infrastructure is huge,” Linares said. “The government is
trying to promote foreign investment in a long list of
projects.”  
 SRI LANKA plans to sell dollar-denominated bonds, according
to its central bank. The South Asian country’s third-ever
overseas offering is likely after August, Central Bank of Sri
Lanka Assistant Governor C.J.P. Siriwardena said in a telephone
interview on June 30.  
 JORDAN plans to sell about $500 million of bonds, Finance
Minister Mohammad Abu Hammour said in an interview on June 23.
The sale will be denominated in U.S. dollars “as it’s a stable
currency and the Jordanian dinar is pegged to it,” Abu Hammour
said.  
 URUGUAY may sell as much as $1 billion of bonds in 2011,
including $500 million of dollar-denominated debt,  Carlos Steneri , director of public credit at Uruguay’s Ministry of
Economy and Finance, said June 3 at a LatinFinance conference in
London. The dollar-denominated bonds may have a maturity of 20
years or more, Steneri said.  
 MALAYSIA plans to raise about $1 billion from its first
sale of conventional dollar bonds in eight years after drawing
bids for five times the Islamic debt it offered, a finance
ministry official said. The government may hire the same banks,
including CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. and HSBC Holdings Plc, to
arrange the sale by Sept. 30, said the official, who declined to
be named as the discussions are private. Malaysia raised $1.25
billion from a Shariah-compliant dollar bond on May 27. Malaysia
is rated A3 by Moody’s and A- by S&P.  
 SABIC CAPITAL , a unit of Saudi Basic Industries Corp., will
sell bonds when market conditions and rates are favorable, its
vice president for corporate finance  Mutlaq al-Morished  told al-
Arabiya television in Dubai on June 16. Sabic delayed a bond
sale because of unfavorable spreads, al-Morished said in a May
26 telephone interview. Sabic Capital had hired HSBC Holdings
Plc, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
to manage a benchmark-sized offering.  
 GHANA is considering selling its second dollar bond in 2011
to tap investor demand as the start-up of oil production boosts
economic growth and narrows the budget deficit, Deputy Finance
Minister  Fifi Kwetey  said. The government is considering a “no-
deal roadshow” as early as the fourth quarter to gauge
international investors’ appetite, Kwetey said in a May 26
interview in Abidjan. Ghana sold its first global bond in 2007,
raising $750 million to help fund the construction of roads and
power plants.  
 ANGOLA received credit ratings from Moody’s, S&P, and Fitch
Ratings that put it on par with Nigeria, Lebanon and Belarus,
and paved the way for a planned sale of international bonds. The
southern African nation’s creditworthiness was rated at B+ by
S&P and Fitch, four levels below investment grade. Moody’s
assigned an equivalent ranking of B1.  
 EURASIAN NATURAL RESOURCES CORP. , a London-based iron ore
and alumina producer with operations in China and Russia, said
it delayed its first dollar bond sale. The company is
“postponing meetings with investors regarding a potential bond
issuance under its Euro Medium Term Note program until further
notice,” Charlotte Kirkham, a spokeswoman for ENRC, said in an
e-mail. The company had hired Deutsche Bank AG and Morgan
Stanley to manage the sale, according to a person familiar with
the transaction.  
 CHINA ORIENTAL GROUP CO.  plans to sell senior notes to
provide working capital and possibly to finance the purchase of
steel mills and iron ore assets in China. Deutsche Bank AG will
manage the sale with ING Groep NV, according to a statement to
the Hong Kong stock exchange.  
 BANK FOR INVESTMENT & DEVELOPMENT OF VIETNAM received
approval from the central bank to issue 7 trillion dong ($369
million) of notes and another 3 trillion dong of dollar-
denominated notes in 2010, according to a statement on State
Bank of Vietnam’s Web site.  
 BOLIVIA plans its first international bond sale in more
than 70 years as early as the end of 2011, Finance Minister  Luis Arce  said. He didn’t disclose the size of the offering.  
 POWER SECTOR ASSETS AND LIABILITIES MANAGEMENT CORP. of the
Philippines may sell between $750 million and $1.5 billion of
dollar-denominated bonds “anytime” to help refinance maturing
debt, Vice Chairman  Jose Ibazeta  said. The company manages the
finances of state utility National Power Corp.  
 BRISBANE AIRPORT CORP., owner of Australia’s third-busiest
airport, may sell bonds in the U.S. as it pursues new markets to
help refinance debt and pay for a new runway. The company is
considering a 10- or 15-year U.S. private placement and a five-
to seven-year Australian dollar bond sale in late 2010 or early
2011, Chief Financial Officer  Tim Rothwell  said in a phone
interview from Brisbane.  
 VIETNAM NATIONAL COAL-MINERAL INDUSTRIES GROUP, the state-
owned coal producer known as Vinacomin, plans to sell as much as
$500 million of bonds overseas to fund mining and energy
projects, according to Deputy Chief Executive Officer  Nguyen Van Hai .  
 FINLAND may sell five-year bonds denominated in dollars,
the Finnish Treasury said in a document posted on its Web site.  
 MONGOLIA plans to raise $500 million selling bonds this
year and the remainder of a planned $1.2 billion program will be
sold according to market conditions,  Batbayar Balgan , director
general of the financial and economic policy department of
Mongolia, said at a forum in Ulan Bator on June 16. The
government scaled back its plans for global bond sales after
Europe’s debt crisis drove up borrowing costs. Investment banks
are advising Mongolia to issue debt with maturities of 5 to 10
years, Bayartsogt said in a Feb. 9 interview. The securities may
yield 8 percent to 11 percent, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Catts  in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        