-- Ford Said to Complete Volvo Sale to Geely Next Week
-- Keith Naughton
-- 2010-07-28T20:06:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/ford-said-to-complete-1-8-billion-volvo-sale-to-china-s-geely-next-week.html

          
          
             Ford Motor Co.  plans to complete its
sale of Volvo Cars to China’s  Zhejiang Geely Holding Co.  next
week, finishing the U.S. automaker’s exit from European luxury
brands, according to two people familiar with the plans.  
 Ford is selling Volvo to Geely for $1.8 billion, less than
one-third of what it paid for the Swedish automaker in 1999.
Ford and Geely executives are aiming to close the sale next
week, pending final regulatory approvals and financing, said the
people, who asked not to be identified revealing internal plans.  
 Unloading Volvo would complete Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally ’s strategy of exiting European luxury lines to focus on
Ford’s namesake brand. Since arriving from Boeing Co. in 2006,
Mulally has sold Aston Martin, Land Rover and Jaguar, which Ford
acquired in 1989 as the first of a stable of premium nameplates
that failed to generate the profits the automaker expected.  
 “Any time you’re marrying a commoner to a blueblood, that
marriage is going to be hard to maintain and sustain,” said
 Rebecca Lindland , an analyst for IHS Automotive in Lexington,
Massachusetts. “It’s a shame because the Volvo-Ford marriage
was one of the strongest because their car buyers had similar
characteristics.”  
 Ford fell 12 cents to $12.91 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite  trading . The shares have gained 29 percent
this year.  
 Volvo Profit  
 Volvo had pretax profit of $53 million in the second
quarter, compared with a $237 million loss a year earlier, Ford
said last week. Ford, the only major U.S. automaker to avoid
bankruptcy last year, posted net income of $2.6 billion in the
second quarter, exceeding analysts’ estimates by 66 percent.  
 “We expect to complete the Volvo sale in the third
quarter,”  John Gardiner , a Ford spokesman, said in an e-mail.
He declined to comment on whether the sale will close next week.  
 Tim Burt, a London-based spokesman for Geely, declined to
comment on the timing of the completion.  
 Ford has said it will continue to supply Volvo with
engines, transmissions and other vehicle components. It also
agreed to provide engineering and technology support and access
to tooling for common components for an unspecified period.  
 The Swedish carmaker’s S40 model is built on the mechanical
foundation of the Ford Focus now sold in Europe. Volvo supplies
diesel engines for Ford’s European lineup.  
 “They’ll probably wind that down over time,” Lindland
said of the technology and parts-sharing agreement with Volvo.
“Mulally runs a pretty tight ship. And that’s obviously working
out really well since they’re making billions in a really crappy
market.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keith Naughton  in Dearborn, Michigan, at 
 Knaughton3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        