-- Formosa Says 1-2 Weeks Before Two-Thirds of Oil Refinery Online After Fire
-- Yu-huay Sun
-- 2010-07-28T06:47:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/formosa-says-1-2-weeks-before-two-thirds-of-oil-refinery-online-after-fire.html

          
          
             Formosa Petrochemical Corp. ,
Taiwan’s only publicly traded oil refiner, said it may need one
to two weeks to have two-thirds of its Mailiao oil refinery
fully operational after a fire damaged a unit three days ago.  
 Formosa is preparing to restart one of the crude processing
units at the plant and may begin feeding oil to it tomorrow,
spokesman  Lin Keh-yen  said. A Commercial Times report today said
it may take a year to restart the residual desulfurization unit
damaged by a July 25 fire.  
 “I am not that pessimistic,” Lin said by phone from
Taipei today.  
 The company shut the 540,000 barrel-a-day refinery for
safety reasons after on oil leak triggered a fire at the No. 2
residual desulfurization unit, Lin said on July 26. The blaze
was the second accident at the refiner’s Mailiao complex this
month. Formosa halted its No. 1 ethylene plant, which has an
annual capacity of 700,000 metric tons, on July 7 after a fire.  
 “Two accidents within three weeks,” said  Danny Ho , a
Taipei-based analyst at Yuanta Securities Co. in Taipei. “They
must raise their standards for maintenance.”  
 Formosa may need as little as two months to resume
production at the residual processing unit and supporting plants,
said Ho, who rates the stock a “buy.”  
 The refinery has three crude distillation units, each able
to process 180,000 barrels a day. The plants heat crude and
separate it into oil products. Residual desulfurization units
remove sulfur from residual fuel.  
 ‘Direct Losses’  
 The  shares  climbed 1.6 percent to close at NT$75.80 in
Taipei trading at 1:30 p.m. local time. The benchmark Taiex
index of equities gained 0.5 percent.  
 Formosa Petrochemical will “take responsibility” for
residents’ financial losses caused by the fire, the company said
in a statement on July 26.  
 A clam farmer told local television channel ETTV on July 26
that pollution produced by the blaze killed some of his clams.
Should clams from nearby farms die because of the smoke from the
fire, Formosa will compensate farmers, Lin said yesterday. Clams
are produced in western Taiwan, including Yunlin.  
 More than 1,000 ducks were found dead in Mailiao yesterday,
Huang An-chin, an official at the Yunlin county’s  Animal Disease
Control Center , said by phone today. The center has taken
samples for a test to determine the cause of the deaths, he said.  
 “Direct losses” from the fire are estimated at NT$500
million ($15.6 million), the company said in the July 26
statement. The government of the Yunlin county, where Mailiao is
located, said yesterday it has decided to fine the company NT$3
million for the smoke produced by the fire.  
 Formosa Petrochemical operates three ethylene  plants  with a
combined annual capacity of 2.935 million tons.  
 To contact the reporter on the story:
 Yu-huay Sun  in Taipei at 
 ysun7@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        