-- Frontier Markets, S&P 500 Hit Record Correlation: Chart of Day
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-28T00:13:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/frontier-markets-s-p-500-hit-record-correlation-chart-of-day.html

          
          
             A record correlation between
frontier-market stocks and U.S. equities signals that companies
in the smallest developing countries are more linked than ever
to events in major economies, and therefore at risk to a
worldwide slowdown, according to Roubini Global Economics LLC.  
 The CHART OF THE DAY shows the relationship between the
MSCI Frontier Markets Index and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.
The correlation coefficient between the gauges is 0.31, based on
a 120-day observation, the highest level since the frontier
stocks gauge was created in 2002, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. A coefficient of 1 means two assets move in lockstep,
while minus 1 shows opposite changes.  
 “Even frontier markets, which are historically less
correlated, are responding to global cues,”  Rachel Ziemba , an
analyst at Roubini in London, said in an e-mail. “This reflects
the fact that even these liquid regions are being affected by
global macro themes and global flows of funds.”  
 The MSCI Frontier Markets Index, a gauge of shares in 175
companies in places such as Dubai, Ukraine, Kenya, Pakistan and
Vietnam, has risen 1.2 percent this year, compared with a
decline of less than 0.1 percent for the S&P 500 Index and a 0.1
percent advance for the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.  
 “It could be a statistical blip, or it could be
international investors finding frontier stocks more attractive
and that a possible re-rating could ensue,” said HSBC Holdings
Plc’s  Andrea Nannini , whose frontier-stocks fund has gained 2.6
percent this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
correlations, while increasing, “are still reasonably low,” he
said.  
 The U.S. economy probably expanded at a slower pace in the
second quarter, according to the median estimate of 68
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, ahead of a Commerce
Department report July 30. Gross domestic product rose at a 2.5
percent annual pace, the survey showed, after increasing at a
2.7 percent rate in the first three months.  
 (To save a copy of the chart, click here.)  
 -- Allen Wan . Editors:  Lee J. Miller ,  Richard Frost   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Allen Wan in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7041 or
 awan3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        