-- Fund Manager Who Pressured South African Magnate Kebble to Resign Was Shot
-- Franz Wild
-- 2010-07-28T13:42:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/fund-manager-who-pressured-mining-magnate-brett-kebble-to-quit-was-shot.html

          
          
             Stephen Mildenhall , a fund manager
who pressured  Brett Kebble  to quit as chief executive officer of
three mining companies, said he was shot at his home,
corroborating a confession yesterday that the attack had been
ordered by the mining magnate.  
 Mildenhall, the former chief investment officer of Cape
Town’s Allan Gray Ltd., said he was shot at his home in the city
on Aug. 31, 2005. Yesterday, former nightclub doorman Nigel
McGurk, told the South Gauteng High Court, that he had hired two
Cape Town residents to attack the money manager, executing
orders that came from contacts of Kebble.  
 “I was shot twice in my left shoulder and once in my right
shoulder,” Mildenhall said, recounting how two men forced their
way into his carport. “I lay on the ground and waited
for their car to drive away.”  
 The testimony was made at the court on the third day of the
murder trial of  Glenn Agliotti , a convicted drug dealer, who
says Kebble asked him to organize his killing in an “assisted
suicide.” Kebble was shot in his car in Johannesburg a month
after he quit the companies following the disappearance of
hundreds of millions of dollars of assets.  
 Allan Gray, which today has the equivalent of $38 billion
under management, in 2005 held about 25 percent stakes in the
three companies headed by Kebble --  Randgold & Exploration Ltd. ,
 JCI Ltd.  and Western Areas Ltd. -- and had been working with
 Investec Ltd.  to oust him. Mildenhall said he had hired
investigators to probe the companies.  
 Loan, Rights Offer  
 Kebble quit the day before the attack on Mildenhall after
Investec agreed to lend JCI 460 million rand ($63 million) loan
to help complete a mine development by Western Areas on the
world’s biggest gold deposit on condition Kebble left. JCI held
39 percent of Western Areas.  
 Mildenhall said Allan Gray had been in contact with
Investec at the time and had agreed to support a concurrent
rights offer by Western Areas if Kebble, who died aged 41, quit.  
 Mildenhall has relocated to the U.K. and flew in to testify
today.  
 Yesterday McGurk testified that together with boxer Michael
Schultz and a driver, Faizel Smith, he was paid to kill Kebble
on the night of Sept. 27, 2005 as the mining executive was
afraid of going to jail. The men have turned state’s witness to
avoid prosecution.  
 “Mikey came to my shop and said Brett wants to go. I asked
him, go where?” Smith said in court today. He “said no, they
asked him to shoot him.”  
 Agliotti has pleaded not guilty to charges of murder,
conspiracy to murder and attempted murder.  
 Fraud, Shares  
 In an 11 year career in South Africa’s gold mining
industry, Kebble helped set up two of the country’s four biggest
gold companies,  Harmony Gold Mining Co.  and  DRDGold Ltd.   He
also oversaw the contraction of JCI Ltd., once the country’s
fourth-biggest gold producer, and faced fraud charges related to
the manipulation of share prices aimed at thwarting the hostile
takeover of one of his companies.  
 Randgold & Exploration shares were suspended in 2005 after
the loss of the assets was discovered. They resumed trade in
Johannesburg on June 4 this year after JCI agreed to return some
assets that Randgold & Exploration said had been improperly
transferred to it.  
 The assets that went missing in 2005, including Randgold
Resources shares, would today be worth about 16 billion rand,
Chief Executive Officer Marais Steyn said last month. Randgold &
Exploration now has a market value of 404 million rand.  
 The case is: State versus Agliotti, Norbert Glenn, JPV
2008/264, SS154/2009.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        