-- LG Posts Record Loss From Handsets on Competition from IPhone, Smartphones
-- Seonjin Cha
-- 2010-07-28T10:05:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/lg-electronics-profit-falls-33-after-company-falls-behind-in-smartphones.html

          
          
             LG Electronics Inc. , the world’s
third-biggest mobile-phone maker, reported a record loss at its
handset business after lagging behind Apple Inc. and smartphone
makers in selling models that send e-mails and surf the Internet.  
 Losses from  mobile phones  totaled 120 billion won ($101
million) in the second quarter, compared with profit of 620
billion won a year earlier, Seoul-based LG said in a statement
today. The loss, the division’s first in four years, was triple
the size projected by the average estimate of five analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 The  stock  fell the most in seven weeks as the results
illustrated how Apple’s iPhone and Samsung Electronics Co.’s
Galaxy S outsold LG in the fastest-growing segment of the
mobile-phone industry. The company, which joined  Nokia Oyj  in
reporting earnings that missed estimates, today said the
division may recover in the fourth quarter as it aims to
introduce about 20 smartphone models this year.  
 “Key for the second half will be whether the company can
regain investors’ confidence in its mobile phones, especially
smartphones,” said  Im Jeong Jae , a fund manager at Shinhan BNP
Paribas Asset Management Co. in Seoul, which manages $27 billion,
including LG Electronics shares. “The overall environment
doesn’t seem too bright.”  
 The handset business’s loss, the biggest since the company
started tracking the division’s financials in 2002, drove down
overall operating profit 90 percent to 126.2 billion won,
missing the 290.6 billion won projected in the Bloomberg survey.  
 Shares Fall  
 LG  declined 2.9 percent to close at 101,000 won on the
Korea Exchange, while the benchmark  Kospi  index rose 0.3 percent.
The stock has lost 17 percent this year.  
 Net income  fell 33 percent to 856.4 billion won. That was
almost double the average analyst estimate in the Bloomberg
survey after the company changed the way it calculates gains
from affiliate LG Innotek Co. The year-earlier figures were
revised under  International Financial Reporting Standards , which
LG adopted from this year.  
 Profit at LG’s home-entertainment division, which makes
televisions and DVD players, slid 90 percent to 28.1 billion won,
compared with the 40.4 billion won average analyst estimate in
the Bloomberg survey.  Sales  at the division increased 19 percent.  
 Global shipments of LCD TVs may rise 19 percent to about
169 million units in 2010, according to El Segundo, California-
based  ISuppli Corp.  in May.  
 Profit at the home-appliances division, which competes
against  Whirlpool Corp.  and Electrolux AB, increased 3.8 percent
to 185.1 billion won, in line with analysts’ estimates.  
 Following Nokia  
 The handset division’s performance comes days after Nokia,
the world’s largest maker of mobile phones, reported  profit 
tumbled 40 percent as competition from the iPhone, handsets
equipped with Google’s Android operating system and Research In
Motion Ltd.’s BlackBerry phones squeezed margins. Apple last
week reported net income jumped 78 percent, helped by sales of
the iPhone.  
 “The Apple threat, the RIM threat, we’re in the eye of the
storm right now,” said  Neil Mawston , a London-based analyst at
Strategy Analytics. “They’ve known for a good couple of years
that the smartphone boom was coming in 3G and they haven’t been
able to attack that so they are a bit behind the curve. Nokia’s
known that finger-operated touchphones have been booming as well
and they’ve been slow to attack that market too.”  
 Business Recovery  
 LG expects the business to recover in the fourth quarter as
it “may not be easy” during the current period, Chief Financial
Officer  David Jung  said at a briefing in Seoul today.  
 LG’s second-quarter handset shipments rose 2 percent to
30.6 million units and the company aims to increase revenue from
the business by introducing smartphones in North America and
South Korea, it said.  
 The company, which began sales of the  LG-GW620  phone
equipped with  Google ’s Android last year, said handsets based on
the operating system will account for more than half its
smartphone models this year.  
 Worldwide sales of smartphones rose 43 percent to 60
million units last quarter, with Nokia, BlackBerry-maker
Research In Motion and Apple widening their lead over smaller
producers, research firm Strategy Analytics said this month.
Global sales of smartphones may increase 36 percent to 247
million in 2010 and expand 30 percent next year, ISuppli said in
April.  
 “One concern is that by the time the new line-up is all
set up, smartphones may not provide the high margins they used
to because of tougher competition,” said  Yoon Hyuk Jin , an
analyst at Shinyoung Securities Co. in Seoul.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shinhye Kang  in Seoul at 
 skang24@bloomberg.net ;
 Seonjin Cha  in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Losses from mobile phones totaled 120 billion won ($101 million) in the second quarter, compared with profit of 620 billion won a year earlier. Photographer: Seokyong Lee/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
