-- Gillard Welcomes Lower-Than-Expected Inflation Data Ahead of Aug. 21 Poll
-- Marion Rae
-- 2010-07-28T05:48:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/gillard-welcomes-lower-than-expected-inflation-data-ahead-of-aug-21-poll.html

          
          
             Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  welcomed a lower-than-expected gain in consumer prices
that may keep the central bank from raising borrowing  costs 
before next month’s election.  
 “The inflation figures are below market expectation and
obviously that is good news,” Gillard told reporters in
Adelaide today.  
 Gillard, who took office last month, is seeking to rebuff
criticism from opposition leader  Tony Abbott  over the Labor
government’s economic stewardship ahead of the Aug. 21 vote.
Abbott has attacked the administration’s budget deficit, the
result of stimulus spending to skirt a recession during the
worldwide financial crisis.  
 Gillard and Abbott are sparring over priorities for the
A$1.2 trillion ($1.1 trillion) economy, where the unemployment
 rate  of 5.1 percent is half the level of the U.S. and Europe.
Voters prefer the opposition Liberal-National coalition on
economic management 47 percent to 35 percent, a Newspoll survey
said this week.  
 Australia’s  consumer  price index rose 0.6 percent in the
second quarter for an annual gain of percent 3.1 percent, the
 Bureau of Statistics  said today. The median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey was for a 1 percent gain.  Economists 
previously split on a rate increase next week now say the
Reserve Bank of Australia will leave the benchmark on hold at
4.5 percent.  
 ‘No Reason’  
 “There is no reason to increase rates,” said Professor
 Adrian Pagan , Reserve Bank board member from 1995-2000 and an
economist at the University of Technology in Sydney. “Voters
hold the government responsible for the decisions of the central
bank, so they will reward Gillard.”  
 Gillard is seeking to persuade the electorate that Labor
should be rewarded for implementing stimulus measures that
avoided a recession during the financial crisis even at the cost
of a budget deficit. The government forecasts a A$40.7 billion
shortfall in 2010-11.  
 Abbott, the coalition’s third leader since its defeat
almost three years ago, is benefiting from Liberal Prime
Minister  John Howard ’s record of nine budget  surpluses  between
1998 and 2007.  
 Labor’s overall lead among voters narrowed to four
percentage points with 52 percent preferring Gillard’s party,
according to a separate Newspoll published two days ago. A week
earlier it held a 10-point lead over the opposition and led on
economic management by 42 to 41.  
 Interest rates rose in 2007 for the first time during an
election campaign. Howard lost the election to Kevin Rudd, who
was pushed out by Gillard last month.  
 Reserve Bank  
 The Reserve Bank, which has delivered the most  aggressive
round  of rate increases by a Group of 20 nation, will meet on
Aug. 3 in Sydney. All of 20 economists say the bank will leave
the benchmark at 4.5 percent, a Bloomberg News survey today
showed.  
 The government was today battling a media report on Nine
Network television that Gillard did not support its policies on
18-week paid parental leave and increasing pensions for seniors.
Gillard earlier today said she questioned the affordability of
the policies, which will cost a total of A$50 billion during the
next decade.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Gemma Daley at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net 
Marion Rae in Canberra at 
 mrae3@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        