-- Golf at a Different Course Every Day for a Year Is Quest of Kiwi Duffers
-- Erik Matuszewski
-- 2010-07-28T11:51:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/golf-at-a-different-course-every-day-for-a-year-is-quest-of-kiwi-duffers.html

          
          
             The hospitality of Wall Streeters
has helped a pair of New Zealanders overcome thunderstorms and a
broken-down van on their quest to play golf at a different
course every day for an entire year.  
 Michael Goldstein and Jamie Patton, both 25, are more than
midway through their golf odyssey after recently spending three
weeks in the northeastern U.S., where they were welcomed at
clubs such as Pine Valley, Shinnecock Hills and Winged Foot.
They’re now in Scotland and took in the British Open at St.
Andrews.  
 The pair trusted fate -- the Kiwi axiom “she’ll be right”
-- to guide them on their golf tour. Fellow golfers, including
former Jefferies & Co. Vice President  Rory Corrigan  and  Lenox
Advisors  Senior Vice President John Miller, were among the
people to lend them a hand.  
 “You couldn’t go to a golf consultant and arrange or
purchase this kind of  tour ,” Corrigan, 55, of Morristown, New
Jersey, said in a telephone interview. “They’ve done it on a
shoestring and with a smile and a handshake. One introduction
leads to another and it’s been a fun thing to share in.”  
 After completing a swing through the northeastern U.S. and
being welcomed at private clubs such as National Golf Links of
America and Merion, Goldstein and Patton flew to Scotland last
week. They took in the British Open and met  Tiger Woods ’s New
Zealand caddie,  Steve Williams , who gave them tickets and made
plans to play with them later this year.  
 No Trust Funds  
 “We fly by the seat of our pants,” Goldstein said in a
telephone interview. “We’re far from trust-fund babies. The
story of our whole trip is actually the people from the golf
community. They find out what we’re doing, offer to put us up
for a night, take us out to their golf course and share the way
they live their lives for a day.”  
 The pair, lawyers who left their jobs back home, have
played mostly private courses not available to the weekend
duffer. They get invited to play rounds by sharing their story
with course owners, head professionals, superintendents and
members.  
 Corrigan heard it from a friend. He passed it along to
Miller, a college buddy who was fascinated by their adventurous
spirit and effort to raise money for  First Tee of New Zealand , a
charity that tries to teach children values through golf.  
 Miller, 55, hosted Goldstein and Patton at his course,
 Plainfield Country Club  -- site of the U.S. PGA Tour’s first
playoff event in 2011 -- and the father of 11 also welcomed them
to stay at his seven-bedroom house in Warren, New Jersey.  
 Along the way, the duo also met Robby Krieger, guitarist
and songwriter for  The Doors , and played a round with him at
Riviera Country Club in Los Angeles.  
 The Journey  
 Their first stop was  Kauri Cliffs , a course overlooking the
South Pacific built by Tiger Management LLC hedge-fund founder
 Julian Robertson . The journey ends Dec. 31 at New Zealand’s  Cape
Kidnappers , which Robertson also built.  
 Goldstein and Patton decided to try something adventurous
after working as junior associates at corporate law firms in New
Zealand. They’re  blogging  about their odyssey on the website
 puregolf2010 . The most recent entry said they’ve played courses
outside of Glasgow, including Glasgow Gailes on the Scottish
coast.  
 The pair got some financial backing from a golf magazine in
New Zealand, but have funded much of the trip with “several
thousand dollars” between them.  
 They arrived in the U.S. on May 11 and bought a 1988 Dodge
van for about $2,500. Nicknamed “Dodgy,” it would serve as
transportation and lodging when they didn’t have a place to
sleep.  
 Their golfing streak was almost interrupted on June 6, when
thunderstorms plagued a drive to South Carolina from Sea Island,
Georgia.  
 ‘Dodgy’ Breakdown  
 “Dodgy” broke down 30 minutes south of Hilton Head,
leaving them stranded until a tow truck arrived. The streak at
risk, the pair grabbed three clubs each, snuck onto a course at
7 p.m. and raced to complete 18 holes in the rain.  
 Other rounds have been less eventful, though equally
memorable.  
 They played Pine Valley in Clementon, New Jersey, and
Cypress Point in Pebble Beach, California, the top two courses
in  Golf Magazine’s U.S. rankings . They went to Shinnecock and
the National Golf Links -- both top 10 courses -- on the same
day on Long Island. Goldstein shot 74 from the back tees at
Shinnecock, while Patton also broke 80.  
 The scores might be the least important part of their trip.  
 “We’re not trying to shoot the lights out every day, we’re
out there to have fun, to meet people and see some new golf
courses,” Goldstein said. “I guess you can say we just kind of
open ourselves up to the golfing world and there’s so many cool
people within it.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        