-- Google Says Censorship Not Obstacle to Its Middle East Growth
-- Heidi Couch
-- 2010-07-28T22:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/google-says-government-censorship-not-obstacle-to-its-middle-east-growth.html

          
          
             Google Inc.,  owner of the world’s
most popular Internet search engine, said it’s not hindered in
the Middle East by government-backed censorship as it seeks to
ride growing opportunities in the region.  
 “We tend to operate in a very, very competitive industry,
so users are generally one click away from changing their
preferences,” Ari Kesisoglu, manager for Google Middle East,
said in a Bloomberg Television interview in Dubai. “We are not
censoring our own information, and we’ve never been asked to.”  
 Google, based in Mountain View, California, is seeking to
gain ground in the Middle East, where it estimates that less
than 15 percent of the residents go online. The company went
public with a dispute in China in January, saying it was no
longer willing to comply with filtering regulations.  
 “If you want to play ball in China or the Middle East or
basically any other country outside, you’ve got to play by the
local rules,” said  Jin Yoon , an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc.
in Hong Kong. “If you don’t play by the local rules, you
essentially have to mark yourself out of the market.”  
 China’s government confirmed that it renewed Google’s
Internet license, after the U.S. company’s local venture pledged
to allow regulators to supervise its Web content, the official
Xinhua news agency said July 11. The move gives Google a chance
to win search share lost to market leader Baidu Inc. and woo
advertisers put off by its dispute with the government.  
 “Whatever happened in China is completely exceptional and
it doesn’t result in us making any decisions globally,”
Kesisoglu said.  
 Middle East Censorship  
 In many Middle Eastern countries, television programs and
films cut out nudity, physical intimacy or homosexual scenes.
Internet firewalls are common across the region, particularly in
the Persian Gulf, where several countries ban popular websites
such as  Skype  and  Flickr . Websites that are critical of Islam or
ruling political regimes are often blocked.  
 In August,  Yahoo! Inc.  purchased Maktoob.com, providing it
with an entry point into a market that includes 22 countries and
more than 350 million Arabic speakers. Maktoob is the largest
portal in the Arab world with 16 million monthly users.  Vodafone
Egypt  last year purchased Sarmady, a Cairo-based provider of
digital content.  
 “Google, Yahoo, help the region and lobby the government
for less censorship,” said Samih Toukan, founder of
Maktoob.com. “We lobby as local people because censorship hurts
us, it hurts innovation it hurts growth.”  
 Bloggers Arrested  
 Global Voices Online, an international bloggers’ network,
has documented 206 cases of bloggers under arrest or threat,
mostly in China, Egypt and Iran. In Egypt and Iran, online
political activists have been arrested and prosecuted after
rallying in support of opposition parties.  
 Restrictions stretch beyond the Web and films. In the
United Arab Emirates,  Research In Motion Ltd. ’s BlackBerry
smartphones may be subject to monitoring if the government is
able to bring communications by the handheld devices under
emergency and security rules.  
 Blackberry devices, introduced in the U.A.E. in 2006, are
not covered by the country’s 2007 Safety, Emergency and National
Security rules, the Telecommunications Regulatory Authority said
July 25.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vivian Salama  in Abu Dhabi at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Google Inc. chairman and chief executive officer Eric Schmidt. Photographer: Matthew Staver/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 29 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Heidi Couch reports on government-backed censorship in the Middle East and its impact on Google Inc.'s expansion plans in the region. (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 28 (Bloomberg) -- Clayton Moran, an analyst at Benchmark Co., talks about potential plans by Google Inc. for the $30.1 billion of cash on its balance sheet.
     Google, owner of the world’s most popular Web search engine, tops a list compiled by Bloomberg of large companies best positioned to pay a first-time dividend, based on such measures as sales growth and return on equity and assets. Moran speaks with Bloomberg's Carol Massar and Matt Miller on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Restrictions stretch beyond the Web and films  
                       
                         
                           Tony Avelar/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A pedestrian passes by the headquarters of Google Inc. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A pedestrian passes by the headquarters of Google Inc. Photographer: Tony Avelar/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
