-- Google Sued Over Claims Data Collection for Street View Invades Privacy
-- Joel Rosenblatt
-- 2010-07-28T23:19:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/google-sued-over-claims-its-street-view-violates-wiretapping-privacy-laws.html

          
          
             Google Inc.  was sued over claims its
collection of data via Wi-Fi networks for the company’s Street
View program violates federal wiretapping and California privacy
laws.  
 The lawsuit was filed yesterday in San Jose, California, on
behalf of Rick Benitti, who argues that Google intercepted
business and personal information from his home wireless network
when he lived in San Francisco from 2005 to this year.  
 Google said in May it mistakenly gathered information from
open wireless networks while it was capturing images of roadways
and houses for its Street View service, a product that lets
users view photographs of an area online.  
 The complaint, which seeks class-action, or group, status,
follows an announcement by Connecticut Attorney General  Richard Blumenthal  last month that 37 states are investigating Google’s
gathering of data, including e-mail and passwords. Officials in
Germany, Spain and other European countries are also
investigating Google’s data collection from Wi-Fi networks.  
 The U.S. Federal Trade Commission said in May that it is
reviewing Google’s data gathering. Also in May, U.S. District
Judge  Michael Mosman  in Oregon ordered the company to turn over
similar data collected in that state, including any e-mails,
files or digital phone records, according to court documents.  
 ‘Access to Data’  
 In the Oregon case, Google said in a June filing that it
faces eight similar cases over its data-gathering practices,
including suits in Illinois, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania and
Washington, D.C. Google asked the court in Oregon to move the
case to Northern California, where it hopes to consolidate all
similar U.S. cases.  
 “Hundreds if not thousands of Google employees throughout
the United States have access to data maintained on Google’s
servers, which includes intercepted electronic communications of
plaintiff and others,” according to the complaint filed
yesterday in San Jose.  
 A Google representative didn’t immediately return a phone
call and e-mail message seeking comment.  
 Google Street View  uses images captured by specially
equipped vehicles to provide views of streets in almost a dozen
countries around the world and can be found within Google Maps.  
 The case is Benitti v. Google, 10-3297, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (San Jose). The Oregon
case is Vicki Van Valin v. Google, 10-00557, U.S. District
Court, District of Oregon (Portland).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joel Rosenblatt  in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        