-- Greece's Papandreou Orders Truckers Back to Work as Fuel Supplies Dwindle
-- Maria Petrakis
-- 2010-07-28T20:44:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/greece-s-papandreou-orders-truckers-back-to-work-as-fuel-supplies-dwindle.html

          
          
             Greece’s government ordered truck
drivers back to work after talks deadlocked in a bid to end a
strike that has led to nationwide fuel shortages.  
 Prime Minister  George Papandreou  gave the order today after
taking into consideration the “serious upheaval to the
country’s social and economic life and the serious risk to
public health from the lack of adequate supplies to citizens of
fuel, food and medicine,” according  to a statement  posted on
the press ministry’s website. Continuation of the strike would
threaten the normal functioning of health and welfare services
and public order, the statement said.  
 Around 33,000 licensed truck drivers began an indefinite
strike on July 26 to protest against government plans to open up
the freight industry and issue new licenses. The changes are a
requirement of a 110 billion-euro ($143 billion) loan package
from the European Union and the International Monetary Fund.
Talks today between the government and representatives of the
strikers failed to produce an agreement.  
 Under the order, the owners and drivers of trucks must
resume work or face penalties. The transport and finance
ministries, as well as local governments were given the power to
requisition vehicles and services “and to take any further
necessary measure to ensure the public good.”  
 Truckers called on the ministry to delay the introduction
of a bill, planned for this week, until September to allow for
more talks between the government and the industry. The request
was refused.  
 Under Increasing Pressure  
 Papandreou is under increasing pressure from businesses,
particularly in the tourist industry, to curb the effects of the
strike. SETE, the Association of Greek Tourism Enterprises,
yesterday called for action against continual labor action --
such as a work-to-rule by air-traffic controllers this week --
that is hitting tourism as it reaches its summer peak.  
 The truckers’ strike “is a huge problem for bookings that
our country needs to cover part of the losses that have occurred
over the past months,”  Andreas Andreadis , president of the
Greek Hotel Federation, told the Flash radio station today.  
 Ta Nea newspaper  reported that no fuel was available on the
island of Rhodes, and tourists were leaving rented cars by the
roadside when they became stranded without fuel.  
 Papandreou’s austerity measures have sparked strikes and
protests from groups ranging from dockworkers to lawyers.
Tourism contributes 16 percent to the country’s economy and
accounts for one in five jobs, according to the  World Travel and
Tourism Council , an industry group.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Maria Petrakis  in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Tugwell  in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        