-- Gross Calls Spending to Maintain Consumption a Waste
-- Alex Kowalski
-- 2010-07-28T20:16:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/gross-equates-spending-to-lift-consumption-with-flushing-money-down-toilet.html

          
          
             Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
 Bill Gross  said deficit spending by governments that seek to
maintain artificial levels of consumption “can be compared to
flushing money down an economic toilet.”  
 Without acceleration in population growth, developed
countries finance more consumption to maintain economic growth,
the world’s biggest bond-fund manager wrote in his August
commentary today on Newport Beach, California-based Pimco’s
website. Leveraged spending, he said, is not a substitute for
demand created by people.  
 “I will go so far as to say that not only growth but
capitalism itself may be in part dependent on a growing
population,” Gross wrote. “Production depends upon people, not
only in the actual process, but because of the final demand that
justifies its existence.”  
 Deficit spending will be unsuccessful in what Pimco calls
the “new normal” because deleveraging, re-regulation and de-
globalization produces structural headwinds that lead to slower
growth and lower-than-average investment returns, Gross said.  
 Japan is the modern-day example of what deleveraging in the
face of a slowing and now negatively growing population can do,
Gross said. Prior deleveraging periods, such as what the U.S.
and European economies experienced in the 1930s, exhibited a
similar demographic with the lowest levels of fertility in the
20th century and extremely low population growth, he wrote.  
 Budget Deficit  
 “It means investors start to shift money from stocks to
bonds because those are more certain,” Gross said during a
“Bloomberg Surveillance” radio interview today with  Tom Keene. 
“Near term, it’s bond friendly but long-term negative for
inflation and investments in general.”  
 The U.S. budget deficit in 2009 was 9.9  percent of gross
domestic product  on Sept. 30, the end of the fiscal year,
compared with a six-year high of 7.4 percent  in Japan . The ratio
in Japan peaked at 11 percent in 1998.  
 Gross boosted holdings of government-related debt to the
highest level in eight months in June as the U.S. recovery
showed signs of waning. His $234 billion  Total Return Fund ’s
investment in the debt was increased to 63 percent of assets in
June, from 51 percent in the previous month. Emerging-market
debt was raised to 10 percent, breaking the 9 percent record set
last month.  
 The fund has returned 13 percent in the past 12 months,
beating 64 percent of its peers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It gained 1.24 percent over the past month, a
performance outpacing 68 percent of competitors. Pimco, a unit
of Munich-based insurer Allianz SE, managed $1.07 trillion of
assets as of March 31.  
 Record Low Yield  
 U.S. government debt continues to draw strong demand,
pushing the two-year  note yield  to a record low of 0.5516
percent on July 23, on evidence of a slowing global economic
recovery and low inflation.  
 Investors are concerned that the recovery will falter more
than a year after President Barack Obama signed the $787 billion
stimulus package and the Federal Reserve cut its target interest
rate for overnight loans between banks to a range of zero to
0.25 percent. The Obama administration so far has pushed for
targeted additional aid, and some economists anticipate the
government will be required to enact further stimulus measures.  
 Pimco’s U.S. government-related debt category can include
conventional and inflation-linked Treasuries, agency debt,
interest-rate derivatives, Treasury futures and options and bank
debt backed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., according to
the firm’s website.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Kowalski  in New York at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Bill Gross, co-chief investment officer of Pacific Investment Management Co. Photographer: Tim Boyle/Bloomberg  
                   
    

 
     
         Audio Download:  7/28 Pimco's Gross Interview About Treasuries, Strategy 
     
         

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
