-- Life Insurance Companies Duping Families of Fallen Soldiers:
-- 
-- 2010-07-28T15:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/life-insurance-companies-duping-families-of-fallen-soldiers-.html

          
          
               Life Insurance Companies Duping Families of Fallen Soldiers: Special Report
  in Bloomberg Markets Magazine

Bereaved Receive Non-Insured “Checkbooks” That Accrue Tiny Interest; Insurance
Companies Keep Policy Money in Their Own Corporate Accounts and Reap Millions
                                  in Profits

Business Wire

NEW YORK -- July 28, 2010

Millions of Americans are being duped by life insurance companies that have
figured out a way to hold onto death benefits owed to families, according to a
six-month investigation appearing in the September 2010 issue of BLOOMBERG
MARKETS® magazine, on newsstands worldwide starting August 16, 2010.

MetLife and Prudential lead the way in making hundreds of millions of dollars
in secret profits every year on money that belongs to relatives of those who
die. Among the people being tricked are parents and spouses of U.S. soldiers
killed in battle in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Survivors of service men and women are told they'll get a $400,000 life
insurance payout. They don't. Instead, Prudential keeps their money. Families
are surprised when they receive what looks like a checkbook. Prudential
promises to hold the money in safekeeping for as long as families would like,
saying it will pay them 0.5 percent interest.

The story is on Bloomberg.com at:

http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/fallen-soldiers-families-denied-cash-payout-as-life-insurers-boost-profit.html

What Prudential doesn't say is that it’s keeping survivors’ money in
Prudential’s corporate investment account, where the company is earning five
to 10 times as much as it pays to families. The so-called checks have the name
JPMorgan Chase printed on them. But the money isn't in a bank and it's not
protected by FDIC insurance. Those facts aren’t made clear to the survivors.

Nor are families told that they could earn more than twice as much interest by
opening FDIC-insured money market accounts at banks across the country.
Families of fallen soldiers say they often don't want to touch the
“checkbooks” because they view them as “blood money” -- cash in return for
their sacrificed child. As a result, Prudential holds the death benefits,
often for more than a year.

How big is the unregulated quasi-banking system operated by insurers? There
are now more than 1 million of these accounts holding more than $28 billion at
130 life insurance companies.

“I'm shocked,” says Cindy Lohman, a Maryland woman whose son, Ryan, was killed
in Afghanistan in 2008. “It’s a betrayal. It saddens me as an American that a
company would stoop so low as to make a profit on the death of a soldier.”

Millions of Americans have unwittingly been placed in the same position by
their insurance companies. The practice of issuing so-called “checkbooks” to
survivors, instead of paying out lump sums, extends well beyond the military.

In the past decade, this ruse has become standard operating procedure in an
industry that touches virtually every American: there are more than 300
million active life insurance policies in the U.S. MetLife alone holds $10
billion in death benefit money that belongs to grieving families. MetLife
makes $100 million to $300 million a year on money that belongs to survivors.

Insurance companies say they're providing their customers a service.
Prudential death benefit accounts are helpful to families of soldiers, says
company spokesman Bob DeFillippo. “For some families, the account is the
difference between earning interest on a large amount of money and letting it
sit idle,” he says. MetLife spokesman Joseph Madden says his company’s
customers are very happy with the system. “The feedback from customers has
been overwhelmingly positive,” he says. “We afford beneficiaries security,
peace of mind and time to make an informed decision -- while earning interest
in the interim.”

“It's outrageous that they're profiting off other people's grief,” says Mark
Umbrell in Doylestown, Pennsylvania. His 26-year-old son Colby, an Army
Airborne Ranger who earned a Bronze Star and a Purple Heart, was killed in
Iraq in May 2007. Umbrell was among those who got a “checkbook” account. “I
think we're being taken,” he says.

The question for Umbrell, Lohman and a million others with these accounts is
whether anyone will hear their cries. State bank regulators say if there are
to be any changes, they should be made by insurance departments. Officials at
those state agencies often say they don't even understand what the insurance
industry is doing with these “checkbook” payouts. “It’s flown under the
radar,” says insurance law professor and author Jeffrey Stempel. “Regulators
have not done their job.”

Until public officials wake up, the bereaved will remain a secret profit
center for the life insurance industry.

Contact:

For an interview with reporter David Evans:
Bloomberg
Drew Kerr, 212-849-8250 (office)
914-806-6530 (cell)
or
Kristin Swenson, 212-617-4264
 
               
//<![CDATA[

                  $("div#story_content p:first").appendTo("div#press_release_subhead_holder");
              
//]]>
