-- Highland Capital Sues Lyondell, UBS Over $150 Million Loan Contract Breach
-- Karen Freifeld
-- 2010-07-28T16:34:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/highland-capital-sues-lyondell-ubs-over-150-million-loan-contract-breach.html

          
          
             Highland Capital Management LP sued
 LyondellBasell Industries NV  and the securities unit of UBS AG
for breaching a contract involving a $150 million loan to
Lyondell.  
 In the suit, filed today in Manhattan state Supreme Court,
Highland claims it agreed to fund $150 million of a $1 billion
term loan as part of Lyondell’s bankruptcy reorganization.
Lyondell accepted the offer, according to the suit. UBS
Securities LLC, Lyondell’s New York agent arranging the term
loan facility, interfered to punish Highland over an unrelated
dispute, the suit says.  
 “UBS, to further its own personal unrelated dispute with
Highland, refused to allocate any of the term loan to Highland,
and caused Lyondell to breach its contract with Highland,” the
suit says. “Such raw abuses of power disrupt the commercial
workings of the market and should be stopped and punished.”  
 David Harpole , a spokesman for Lyondell, said the company
has not yet been served and therefore is unfamiliar with the
matter and not in a position to comment.  
 Kelly Smith , a spokeswoman for UBS, Switzerland’s biggest
lender, declined comment.  
 In June UBS sued Highland, claiming losses of at least $686
million over a failed collateralized debt obligation
transaction.  
 CDO Restructuring  
 Highland Capital, the investment firm founded by  James Dondero  and  Mark Okada , and two affiliates “fraudulently
induced” UBS to restructure the CDO in 2008, the Zurich-based
bank alleged in papers filed in New York State Supreme Court in
Manhattan.  
 The June lawsuit followed a complaint filed by UBS on Feb.
24, 2009. Highland Capital won dismissal in February of this
year of one of three claims in the 2009 lawsuit. UBS separately
filed an amended complaint in that case on June 28, court
records show.  
 CDOs are securities backed by corporate loans, mortgages,
auto loans, credit cards and other assets that are sliced into
layers carrying different levels of risk.  
 The new case is Highland Capital v. LyondellBasell,
651112/2010, New York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Freifeld  in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        