-- Lilly Loses U.S. Appeals Court Ruling Over Patent for Gemzar Cancer Drug
-- Meg Tirrell
-- 2010-07-28T20:14:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/lilly-loses-u-s-appeals-court-ruling-over-patent-for-gemzar-cancer-drug.html

          
          
             Eli Lilly & Co. , already facing
competition next year for its top-selling drug, lost a bid to
block generic sales of the cancer medicine Gemzar after
November, opening the door to rivals two years earlier than the
company anticipated.  
 A U.S. appeals court today upheld a lower court that had
invalidated a patent on a method of using the medicine that
expires in May 2013. The patent is similar to one on Gemzar that
expires in November, the Court of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit said in a  ruling  on its website. Lilly said it disagrees
with the decision and is considering further review.  
 Gemzar, used for lung, breast, pancreatic and ovarian
cancers, generated $1.36 billion in global sales last year
including $747.4 million in the U.S., the Indianapolis-based
company said in its fourth-quarter earnings report. At the
current U.S. sales pace, the court decision could put more than
$1 billion of Gemzar revenue in jeopardy in the next two years.  
 “If Lilly suddenly loses more or less a billion-and-a-
half-dollar drug, that’s a significant problem since they’re
also losing Zyprexa next year,”  Les Funtleyder , an analyst with
New York-based Miller Tabak & Co., said today in a telephone
interview. Zyprexa, Lilly’s top-selling schizophrenia drug with
$4.92 billion in 2009 sales, loses patent protection next year.  
 Lilly said that, since it will maintain market exclusivity
until at least Nov. 15, it wouldn’t modify its financial
projection for this year. Lilly raised its full-year earnings
 forecast  last week, projecting profit, adjusted for some items,
of $4.50 to $4.65 a share. The drugmaker had previously forecast
as much as $4.55.  
 Teva, Sun  
 The decision is a victory for India’s Sun Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd., which had challenged the patent, and generic-
drug companies including  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd.  and
Novartis AG’s Sandoz that also are seeking to sell lower-cost
versions of the medicine.  
 “It opens up the generic market some two years early on an
incredibly important drug,” said lawyer  James Hurst  of Winston
& Strawn in Chicago, who represented Mumbai-based Sun.  
 When a drug loses patent protection, typically its sales
can fall as much as 80 percent in the next two to three years,
Funtleyder said. Gemzar, which is given by injection, may see
revenue deteriorate more slowly because the drug is harder to
make, he said. Funtleyder has a “neutral” rating on Lilly
shares and doesn’t own them.  
 U.S. District Judge  George Caram Steeh  in Detroit
invalidated the patent a year ago. Lilly continued to sue
generic companies, including Sandoz and Hospira Inc.,
anticipating a victory at the appeals court. In March, a federal
judge in Indianapolis upheld the patent that expires this year.  
 Double Patenting  
 A three-judge panel of the appeals court said the 2013
patent covered an invention that was already protected through
2010. Hurst used the same double-patenting argument to
invalidate Lilly’s claim on the antidepressant Prozac in 2000.  
 Lilly said it may ask for a rehearing before all active
judges of the Federal Circuit, which specializes in patent law.
It also can ask the Supreme Court to look at the case.  
 “Protection of intellectual property rights is extremely
important to the biopharmaceutical industry and the patients we
serve, as these rights help support the development of the next
generation of innovative medicines to treat unmet medical
needs,” Lilly Chief Executive Officer  John Lechleiter  said in a
statement.  
 A spokeswoman for Novartis didn’t return a message seeking
comment.  Denise Bradley , a spokeswoman for Petah Tikva, Israel-
based Teva, said the company had no comment.  
 Soon As Possible  
 “We’re encouraged by this development and remain committed
to bringing high-quality, low-price products to market as soon
as possible,” said  Daniel Rosenberg , a spokesman for Lake
Forest, Illinois-based Hospira.  
 Lilly is seeking to increase the speed of drug development
as it faces patent expirations on two top-selling medicines,
Zyprexa next year and antidepressant Cymbalta in 2013.  
 Lilly fell 43 cents to $35.67 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading, and the shares are little changed
for this year.  
 The case is Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. v. Eli Lilly
& Co., 10-1105, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Washington). The lower court case is Sun Pharmaceutical v. Eli
Lilly, 07-15087, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Michigan (Detroit).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susan Decker  in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
 Meg Tirrell  in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        