-- IMF Directors Split Over Whether China's Yuan Is Undervalued
-- Shamim Adam
-- 2010-07-28T03:07:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/imf-executive-directors-split-over-whether-china-s-currency-is-undervalued.html

          
          
             International Monetary Fund
directors split over whether the yuan is undervalued, reflecting
similar differences between U.S. and Chinese officials over the
nation’s exchange-rate regime.  
 Some IMF board members said the assumption that the
exchange rate is undervalued is based on “uncertain forecasts”
for China’s current account surplus, the Washington-based lender
said in a  statement  dated yesterday after concluding a July 26
meeting. In its annual assessment of the country’s economy
discussed by the board, the IMF said  growth  is expected to
remain robust and the outlook for  inflation  is benign.  
 The yuan has advanced less than 1 percent against the
dollar since China indicated on June 19 it would scrap the
currency’s two-year-old peg to the greenback. Asia’s second-
largest economy has faced pressure to allow the yuan to rise
from U.S. lawmakers, who claim an undervalued currency gives its
exporters an unfair advantage.  
 “Directors welcomed the recent decision to return to the
managed floating exchange rate regime,” according to the
statement. “This decision will increase the central bank’s
flexibility to tighten monetary conditions.”  
 China had kept the yuan stable at about 6.83 per dollar
between July 2008 and June 2010, having allowed it to gain 21
percent in the previous three years. It was little changed at
6.7792 per dollar as of 10:40 a.m. in Shanghai.  
 Shrinking Surplus  
 China’s  current-account surplus  will shrink for a second
year in 2010 as domestic demand plays a greater role in driving
the nation’s economic growth, according to the State
Administration of Foreign Exchange on July 8. The gap, the
broadest measure of trade, amounted to 6.1 percent of China’s
gross domestic product last year, down from 9.6 percent in 2008,
the currency regulator said.  
 A nation’s current-account balance can be used as a
“window” to watch if its exchange rate is at an equilibrium
level, China’s deputy central bank governor  Hu Xiaolian  said on
July 3.  
 IMF officials estimated the Chinese currency could be
undervalued between 5 percent and 27 percent, Reuters said,
citing two people who had seen the fund’s staff report on the
country.  
 Catalyst for Change  
 Some IMF directors said strengthening in the yuan, a
denomination of China’s currency the renminbi, will help the
country rebalance its growth drivers, while others said such a
shift is already taking place.  
 “Many directors stressed that, over time, a stronger
renminbi would help facilitate a shift from exports and
investment to private consumption as the principal driver of
economic growth,” according to the statement. “A number of
directors pointed to signs that a structural shift in the
balance of payments is already underway, reflecting the reforms
already put in place to strengthen consumption.”  
 The fund also called on China to use “market-based
instruments” such as higher interest rates and reserve-
requirement ratios to protect banks’ balance sheets.  
 Premier   Wen Jiabao  has left interest rates unchanged since
December 2008, relying on administrative measures and controls
on lending to prevent overheating. The central bank has raised
banks’ reserve-ratio requirement three times this year to
contain property prices and inflation.  
 Monetary Policy  
 IMF officials “agreed that the targeted reduction in broad
money growth this year balances well the need to provide
continued support to the economy with the desire to safeguard
the health of bank balance sheets,” the statement said. They
“highlighted the need for regulatory and supervisory vigilance
to manage any deterioration in credit quality, and for increased
transparency in lending to local government financing
vehicles.”  
 Chinese banks may struggle to recoup about 23 percent of
the 7.7 trillion yuan ($1.1 trillion) they’ve lent to finance
local government infrastructure projects, a person with
knowledge of data collected by the China Banking Regulatory
Commission said earlier this month.  
 China’s budget is supporting a resumption in private demand
and there is more room for the government to redirect the
stimulus toward measures to boost consumption and raise
household incomes, the IMF said. The lender supported a
“gradual phase out” of fiscal stimulus in 2011.  
 The government may need to consider more measures to
control increases in  real estate prices , the IMF said,
suggesting the consideration of a property tax and more
financial market development to channel savings.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Wen Jiabao, China's premier, speaks during a news conference in Beijing. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
