-- Ukraine Secures New $15.2 Billion IMF Bailout Loan to Cover Budget Deficit
-- Sandrine Rastello
-- 2010-07-29T17:27:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/imf-approves-15-2-billion-loan-to-ukraine-on-fiscal-adjustment-pledge.html

          
          
             The International Monetary Fund
approved a 2 ½-year, $15.2 billion loan program for Ukraine,
which agreed to trim its budget deficit and raised natural gas
prices to qualify for the funds.  
 The IMF board of directors agreed late yesterday to
disburse $1.9 billion immediately, with subsequent payments
subject to quarterly reviews. Ukraine can use $1 billion of the
first payment to help cover the deficit, Thanos Arvanitis, the
Washington-based lender’s Ukraine mission chief, said today on a
conference call with reporters.  
 “Ukraine is emerging from a difficult period during which
the economy was severely hit by external shocks and exacerbated
by domestic vulnerabilities,”  John Lipsky , the fund’s first
deputy managing director, said in a statement. “Authorities are
committed to addressing existing imbalances and putting the
economy on a path of durable growth.”  
 Ukraine got a two-year, $16.4 billion loan from the IMF in
2008 after the global recession cut demand for its exports. The
nation received $10.6 billion before payments were frozen in
November as the government declined to cut spending ahead of
presidential elections at the start of this year.  
 The government this month increased gas prices for
households and heating companies to balance finances of state
energy company NAK Naftogaz Ukrainy. Under policies attached to
the new loan, the consolidated general government deficit has to
reach 5.5 percent of gross domestic product this year and 3.5
percent next year.  
 VTB Loan  
 Ukraine in June received a $2 billion loan from VTB Group,
Russia’s second-largest bank, to help cover the deficit.  
 “We expect that the first tranche from the IMF will be
used to finance the budget deficit and, in particular, to
refinance a $2 billion loan received from VTB,” said  Anastasia Golovach , an analyst at Renaissance Capital in Kiev in an e-
mailed note.  
 The IMF will provide a second $1 billion for the state
budget after the first quarterly review, Arvanitis said. The
remaining $13 billion will go to central bank reserves, he said.  
 The loan “eases concerns over budget financing for this
year,” said  Tim Ash , head of emerging market research at Royal
Bank of Scotland Plc in London, by e-mail today. The program
“should enable rational energy pricing, which will do much to
help rein in the quasi-fiscal deficit in the energy sector.”  
 Ukrainian Gas  
 Prime Minister  Mykola Azarov  initially aimed for a deficit
target of 5.3 percent of GDP plus 1 percent to cover funds for
state-run energy company NAK Naftogaz Ukrainy. The IMF said it
wants Ukraine to reduce the budget deficit to 2.5 percent of GDP
in 2012. Naftogaz’s deficit should be “eliminated starting from
2011,” according to the statement.  
 Resumed cooperation with the IMF opens the way for a
 European Commission  loan estimated at 610 million euros ($792
million) and for an $800 million loan from the World Bank,
Deputy Prime Minister  Serhiy Tigipko  said on July 7.  
 “Fiscal adjustment will start in 2010 and deepen in 2011-
12, backed by robust structural reforms of the pension system,
public administration, and the tax system,” Lipsky said.
Ukraine’s gas industry “will be strengthened, including through
domestic price hikes and broader reforms supported by other
multilateral institutions, which will help eliminate energy
subsidies and create a more modern and viable sector.”  
 Market Strength  
 The benchmark UX stock index rose 70.13 points to 2093.85
today, the biggest increase since July 6. Ukraine’s 6.58 percent
bond maturing 2016 rose to 101.053, from 100.000 yesterday.
Ukraine’s credit default swaps fell 4 basis points to 514.5,
according to data provider CMA.  
 The IMF action “will be moderately positive” for
Ukraine’s Eurobonds “as the approval of the stand-by program
has been expected and the market has already accounted for
this,” Astrum Investment Management said today in a comment for
clients.  
 The decision should cause a further decline in the cost of
hedging against devaluation risk, Astrum said. This “should
increase the appeal of the Ukrainian domestic bond market for
non-residents,” according to Astrum.  
 Tigipko said in March that Ukraine needed IMF support to
bolster the economy, which shrank 15.1 percent in 2009, the
biggest contraction since 1994. GDP expanded 4.9 percent in the
first quarter, according to government figures.  
 Standard & Poor’s said July 22 it may raise Ukraine’s
credit rating for a third time this year, boosting it to B+,
after the government reaches agreement with the IMF.  
 “We expect Ukraine’s sovereign increases should follow the
IMF decision,” Astrum Investments said today.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sandrine Rastello  in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net 
 Kateryna Choursina  in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        