-- India's Sensex to Climb 16 Percent by March as Economy Grows, Pershad Says
-- Susan Li
-- 2010-07-28T01:28:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/india-s-sensex-to-climb-16-percent-by-march-as-economy-grows-pershad-says.html

          
          
             The Bombay Stock Exchange’s
 Sensitive Index  is likely to rise as much as 16 percent to
21,000 by the end of the financial year given the outlook for
India’s economic growth, according to Veda Investments LLC.  
 The nation’s economy may expand more than 9 percent, higher
than the central bank’s forecast of 8.5 percent for the year
through March,  Vikas Pershad , chief executive officer of Veda,
said in a Bloomberg Television interview. The Reserve Bank of
India may increase its repurchase rate to “near 7 percent”
after yesterday raising the rate to 5.75 percent, he said.  
 The Sensex, as the index is also known, yesterday added 0.3
percent to 18,077.61 after the central bank’s interest-rate
increase signaled that policy makers are confident the pace of
growth is robust. The gauge has gained 3.5 percent this year,
making India the second-best performer among the world’s 10
largest stock markets by value.  
 “There are limited indigenous shocks that could slow the
 Indian economy  down,” Pershad said in a Bloomberg Television
interview from Chicago. “I would say that 20,000, 21,000 would
be highest probability case for Sensex towards the end of this
fiscal year.”  
 Reserve Bank of India Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  also
boosted the reverse repurchase rate to 4.5 percent from 4
percent and pledged to review borrowing costs at meetings every
six weeks, up from once a quarter. Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg had expected a quarter-point increase in both rates.  
 ‘Right Direction’  
 The steps followed five months of  wholesale inflation 
exceeding 10 percent, which has imperiled the purchasing power
of a population where almost three quarters live on less than $2
a day.  
 “When you have double-digit inflation in food, in fuel, in
cotton for three-fourths of the population it starts to really
pinch them,” Pershad said. “The RBI is moving in the right
direction.”  
 The investor said he favors financial services,
infrastructure and consumer goods stocks including  Godrej
Consumer Products Ltd.  and Emami Ltd.  
 Godrej, India’s second-largest maker of bath soaps, has
jumped 36 percent in Mumbai this year, while  Emami , a maker of
skincare cream, has soared 75 percent. The stocks are valued at
26 times and 29 times estimated earnings respectively, compared
with the Sensex’s  multiple  of 18 times, according to data
tracked by Bloomberg.  
 “Companies might trade at high multiples but not
necessarily expensive multiples,” Pershad said. “The multiples
are high but earnings are even higher.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 28 (Bloomberg) -- Vikas Pershad, chief executive officer of Chicago-based Veda Investments LLC, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the outlook for Indian stocks.
     Pershad, speaking from Chicago, also discusses India's economy and central bank monetary policy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
