-- India's 10-Year Bond Yield Headed Back to 8%, HDFC, Standard Chartered Say
-- Anil Varma
-- 2010-07-28T03:34:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/india-s-10-year-bond-yield-headed-back-to-8-hdfc-standard-chartered-say.html

          
          
             The yield on India’s benchmark rupee
bonds will head back up to 8 percent as the central bank raises
interest rates, spoiling a rally driven by improved government
finances,  Standard Chartered Plc  and  HDFC Bank Ltd.  say.  
 The rate will climb about 30 basis points by the end of the
year to return to a level last touched in April, the banks said
as the central bank yesterday lifted  borrowing  costs. Moody’s
Investors Services raised India’s local-currency rating a day
earlier after the government increased fuel prices to cut
subsidies and earned twice the budgeted amount by selling
wireless permits.  
 “The central bank has assumed a cautious and hawkish tone
in the latest policy announcement,” said  Arvind Sampath , head
of interest-rate trading at Standard Chartered in Mumbai. “Bond
yields will climb as policy rates are likely to be raised
further.”  
 The yield on the 7.8 percent bond due in May 2020 was 7.72
percent yesterday, the highest level in almost three months,
according to the central bank’s trading system. The rate has
risen 13 basis points so far in 2010, adding to last year’s
record 2.3 percentage point  increase .  
 India’s local currency bonds have returned 1.9 percent so
far this year, the least among Asia’s 10 top debt markets
outside Japan, according to indexes compiled by HSBC Holdings
Plc. The securities lost 5 percent in 2009, the most in the same
basket, the data show.  
 Swaps Climb  
 The  Reserve Bank of India  lifted borrowing costs for a
fourth time this year to counter inflation. The reverse
repurchase rate, at which the central bank absorbs excess cash
from banks, is now at 4.5 percent from 4 percent earlier. The
 repurchase rate , which the central bank charges on overnight
loans, has been raised to 5.75 percent from 5.5 percent.  
 The price of one-year interest-rate swaps, derivative
contracts used to guard against fluctuations in borrowing costs,
jumped yesterday to the highest level since November 2008. The
fixed payment made to receive a floating rate has gained 106
basis points to 6.12 percent this year, heading for the biggest
increase since 2006. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 The  wholesale-price  index averaged 10.4 percent in the
first half of 2010, compared with 2.2 percent in the whole of
2009, government data show. The inflation rate in the $1.2
trillion economy, Asia’s third-largest, is the highest among the
Group of 20 nations.  
 Savings Growth  
 Officials may raise borrowing costs by a further half point
before the year ends to counter inflation, economists led by
 Abheek Barua  at Mumbai-based HDFC Bank wrote in a research note.
The note by India’s third-biggest bank by market value was
issued after the central bank’s policy statement.  
 Government bonds will also decline as slower growth in
savings damps demand from banks, says  SBI Funds Management Pvt. 
Ltd. Banks are the biggest buyers of government debt, holding
about 70 percent of the outstanding stock, according to a unit
of the nation’s largest lender.  
 Banks are required by law to invest at least 25 percent of
deposits in government debt or other low-risk securities
approved by authorities. Average growth in  savings  has dropped
to 14.8 percent in the financial year that began on April 1 from
19.9 percent in the previous 12 months, central bank data show.  
 “In addition to the prospect of tighter monetary
conditions, a decline in banks’ appetite for debt due to a
slowdown in deposits growth will be negative for bonds,” said
 Navneet Munot , who oversees about $8.2 billion as chief
investment officer at SBI Funds in Mumbai.  
 The government is seeking to reduce its budget deficit to
5.5 percent of gross domestic product in the current fiscal
year, from an estimated 6.9 percent in the previous 12 months.
The shortfall this fiscal year may be less than targeted, the
Prime Minister’s chief adviser said on July 23.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anil Varma  in Mumbai at 
 avarma3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        