-- India Wants Reliance, GAIL to Invest $21 Billion in Gas Network in 5 Years
-- Rakteem Katakey
-- 2010-07-28T11:39:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/india-wants-reliance-gail-to-invest-21-billion-in-gas-network-in-5-years.html

          
          
             India’s gas distribution regulator
expects companies including  Reliance Industries Ltd.  and  GAIL
India Ltd.  to invest 1 trillion rupees ($21 billion) in the next
five years to build pipeline networks connecting cities.  
 The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board invited bids
for  eight areas  in July and plans to hold monthly auctions for
another 305 cities, Chairman  Labanyendu Mansingh  said in an
interview at his office in New Delhi. Pension funds and hedge
funds are interested in buying stakes in companies building the
networks, he said, declining to name the potential investors.  
 “We are working closely with state governments to ensure
these projects come up on time,” Mansingh said yesterday.
“India has been fortunate enough to have major gas discoveries
and this trend is going to continue for several years.”  
 The government is encouraging households, factories and
vehicle owners to switch to the cleaner-burning fuel from coal
and diesel to reduce pollution. The auction is India’s third.
The board first awarded rights for six cities last year while
the second for seven cities was stalled due to a lawsuit.  
 Building distribution grids in a typical large Indian city
may cost as much as 25 billion rupees, Mansingh said.  
 Manoj Warrier , a spokesman for Reliance, didn’t immediately
reply to an e-mail seeking comment.  R.K. Goel , finance director
at GAIL, didn’t immediately comment.  
 Underlying Logic  
 “The underlying logic to this is that there’s established
demand and there will be supply of gas,” said  Tony Regan , a
Singapore-based consultant with Tri-Zen International Ltd. who
formerly worked in the gas industry with Royal Dutch Shell Plc.
“This investment is just about what India needs to tap that
demand and expand the existing distribution network.”  
 Reliance, India’s biggest gas producer, GAIL and  Indian Oil
Corp.  bid in the first auction, the regulator said in June last
year. Mumbai-based Reliance won the right to sell compressed
natural gas for automobiles and piped gas for use in homes in
two cities in Andhra Pradesh state and one in Madhya Pradesh,
the Economic Times reported Aug. 28.  
 The third auction started July 23 and companies have until
Nov. 12 to submit bids for eight areas in the states of West
Bengal, Gujarat, Punjab and Haryana, according to a  notification 
on the regulator’s website.  
 Reduce Emissions  
 India seeks to reduce tail-pipe emissions from vehicles and
burn lesser coal to cut pollution. The government offered to
reduce the amount of carbon dioxide released per unit of gross
domestic product by 25 percent by 2020 from 2005 levels to help
combat climate change, the Ministry of Environment and Forests
said Jan. 30. Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  on Feb. 26
imposed a tax on coal sales to fund renewable energy projects.  
 Reliance,  Oil & Natural Gas Corp.  and Gujarat State
Petroleum Corp. have discovered gas fields in India, some of
which may start producing in 2012, according to the companies.
ONGC, the nation’s biggest energy explorer, plans to spend a
record $5 billion to develop gas fields to boost output by
almost 60 percent in six years, two people with direct knowledge
of the matter said July 26.  
 India’s gas output rose 28.4 percent in 2009, the world’s
biggest increase, according to BP Plc’s 2010 Statistical Review
of World Energy. China’s production climbed 6.1 percent in the
same period.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rakteem Katakey  in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        