-- Insurance Regulators Seek CMBS Rater After Hiring Pimco for Home Mortgages
-- Sarah Frier
-- 2010-07-28T18:26:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/insurance-regulators-seek-firm-to-weigh-losses-on-commercial-mortage-bonds.html

          
          
             Insurance regulators are seeking a
firm to review commercial mortgage-backed securities after
hiring Pacific Investment Management Co. to assess the
industry’s home-loan investments.  
 State insurance commissioners, in search of an alternative
to rating firms Moody’s Investors Service and Standard & Poor’s,
could pick an evaluator by Sept. 3 to review investment losses
that carriers might suffer on about 7,500 commercial mortgage-
backed securities. The analysis will help determine how much
capital insurers must hold to reserve against losses.  
 The move “makes a lot of sense,” said  Scott Buchta , head
of investment strategy at New York-based Braver Stern Securities
LLC, in an e-mail. Because insurers are expected to hold extra
capital against downgraded bonds, using an outside firm to
evaluate the risk will lead to “less forced selling by
insurance companies based on ratings downgrades” and more
purchases of commercial mortgage bonds that have experienced
lower ratings.  
 After ratings firms lowered their assessment of the
soundness of residential mortgage-backed securities last year,
causing capital requirements to surge fivefold, insurers asked
regulators to take a new approach for evaluating the risk.  
 Capital Relief  
 The industry got $7 billion in capital relief from
regulators after applying Pimco’s forecasting to 2009 financial
statements. In March, regulators were asked to use the strategy
for bonds backed by mortgages on office buildings, shopping
malls, warehouses and other commercial sites.  
 “State regulators believe that adding this tool will
improve our view of structured securities and our industry, the
financial sector,” said  Jane L. Cline ,  National Association of
Insurance Commissioners  president and West Virginia insurance
commissioner, in the association’s statement.  
 Pimco, the Newport Beach, California-based manager of the
world’s largest bond fund, was chosen from among 11 vendors by
the association in November to help evaluate more than 21,000
residential mortgage-backed securities. Pimco, with more than  $1
trillion  of managed assets at the end of September, works with
financial firms and government entities to evaluate bond and
mortgage portfolios.  
 Regulators are looking for a nationally recognized firm
with at least five years of experience in modeling commercial
mortgage bonds, which can finish the task by early December.  
 Pimco spokesman  Mark Porterfield  did not immediately return
a call for comment.  Melissa Garville , a spokeswoman at Blackrock
Inc., the world’s biggest asset manager, had no comment.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Frier  in New York at 
 sfrier@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        