-- Intel, Samsung May Compete for Infineon Mobile-Phone Unit, Citigroup Says
-- Ian King
-- 2010-07-28T16:41:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/intel-samsung-may-compete-for-infineon-mobile-phone-unit-citigroup-says.html

          
          
             Intel Corp . and Samsung Electronics
Co., the world’s two-largest chip companies, may compete to
acquire Infineon Technologies AG’s mobile-phone business,
according to Citigroup.  
 An acquisition or partnership with  Samsung  would be a
better fit for the German chipmaker’s business and thus more
likely,   Glen Yeung , a San Francisco-based Citigroup analyst,
said today in a research report.  
 Samsung, also the world’s second-largest maker of mobile
phones, would use Infineon’s technology to help broaden its chip
business beyond memory, Yeung wrote.  Intel  chips run more than
80 percent of the world’s personal computers, making the company
the biggest semiconductor maker. It is trying to parlay its
dominance of PCs into a slice of the handset market.  
 Intel doesn’t comment on rumor or speculation, said  Chuck Mulloy , a spokesman for Santa Clara, California-based Intel.
 Christian Hoenicke , a spokesman for Neubiberg, Germany-based
Infineon, declined to comment.  Chris Goodhart , a U.S.-based
spokeswoman for Samsung, which is based in Suwon, South Korea,
didn’t immediately return calls seeking comment.  
 Earlier today, Infineon Chief Executive Officer  Peter Bauer 
said he continues to be happy with the wireless solutions
business. The chipmaker hired JPMorgan Chase & Co. and opened a
data room for potential buyers to review its books, according to
a person familiar with the matter who asked not be identified by
name because it hasn’t been made public yet.  
 Infineon’s wireless-solutions business makes baseband
processors, the chips that control the radio functions in
phones. It will have sales of 1.26 billion euros ($1.63 billion)
this year, a gain of 29 percent, according to a Citigroup
estimate.  
 Largest Customers  
 Its two largest customers are  Apple Inc.  and LG Electronics
Inc., each supplying about 30 percent of sales. An Infineon
baseband chip powers Apple’s iPhone. The unit also supplies
Nokia Oyj, Samsung and Research In Motion Ltd., according to
Yeung’s report.  
 Intel fell 5 cents to $21.53 at 12.18 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. Infineon rose 13 cents to 5.18
euros in Frankfurt.  
 About 315 million mobile phones shipped in the first
quarter, according to Gartner Inc. That’s almost quadruple the
84 million PCs shipped in the period.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian King  in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        