-- U.S. Ambassador Will Attend Hiroshima Memorial Ceremony for First Time
-- Peter S. Green
-- 2010-07-29T03:10:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/hiroshima-anniversary-ceremony-gains-u-s-recognition-65-years-after-bomb.html

          
          
             Sixty-five years after the U.S.
bomber  Enola Gay  dropped an atomic bomb on Hiroshima, the U.S.
ambassador to Japan will attend the city’s annual memorial
ceremony for the first time.  
 Ambassador  John Roos  will attend the Aug. 6 proceedings,
State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said in Washington
yesterday. “At this particular point, we thought it was the
right thing to do,” he said.  
 The decision may ease political pressure on President
 Barack Obama , who’s been invited to Hiroshima and Nagasaki,
where a second atomic bomb was dropped three days later, said
 Douglas Paal , vice president for studies at the Carnegie
Endowment for International Peace in Washington and a former
senior director for Asia at the National Security Council. While
a trip hasn’t been announced, Obama may visit Japan in November
following a meeting in Seoul of the Group of 20 industrialized
nations.  
 “It means Obama doesn’t have to go on an apology tour and
endure criticism from the Republicans,” Paal said in an
interview.  
 The  commemorations  mark the anniversary of the day the U.S.
dropped “Little Boy,” the nickname for the 9,700-pound uranium
bomb with the force of 15,000 tons of high explosives. Some
70,000 people died instantly and more suffered fatal cancers,
according to a U.S. government  history  of the bombing.  
 Nine days later, on Aug. 15, 1945, Japan surrendered to the
U.S., ending World War II.  
 Victims of War  
 The presence of Roos will “express respect for all of the
victims of World War II,” Crowley said.  
 Japan’s top government spokesman welcomed the U.S. decision
in Tokyo. Hiroshima has been sending an invitation to the U.S.
president and the ambassador to Japan every year since 1998,
according to the city.  
 “This is the first time a government representative of the
U.S., a nuclear power, attends the ceremony, and the Japanese
government welcomes this,” Chief Cabinet Secretary  Yoshito Sengoku  told reporters today. “The event will become an
opportunity for major nations’ officials to deepen their
understanding of our desire for nuclear disarmament and resolve
never to allow the misery of A-bomb attacks to be repeated.”  
 Roos, a California lawyer and Obama campaign contributor,
has served as ambassador to Japan since August 2009.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter S. Green  in Washington at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        