-- Lithuania's Economy Resumed Growth in Second Quarter, Boosted by Exports
-- Milda Seputyte
-- 2010-07-28T08:54:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/lithuania-s-economy-resumed-growth-in-second-quarter-boosted-by-exports.html

          
          
             The Lithuanian  economy , which
suffered the European Union’s second-worst recession in 2009,
returned to growth last quarter on rising exports and expanding
industrial output.  
 Output grew 1.1 percent from a year ago after a 2.8 percent
contraction in the first quarter, the Vilnius-based  statistics
office  said in a statement today. The median  estimate  of five
economists in a Bloomberg survey was for a 1 percent annual
decline. On a quarterly basis,  gross domestic product  gained a
seasonally adjusted 2.9 percent.  
 The Baltic nation’s economy came back to life after
contracting for six consecutive quarters and suffering a 14.8
percent slump last year, the deepest recession since the early
1990s. Exports and industrial output expanded as global trade
improved and wage cuts helped increase competitiveness.  
 “It is quite unexpected to see such positive results that
were much better than our forecast and the consensus,” said
 Violeta Klyviene , chief Baltic economist with Danske Bank.
“Improving export trend is making a very positive impact.”  
 The other Baltic nations, Latvia and Estonia, are also
rebounding. Latvia returned to quarterly expansion in the first
quarter and Estonia exited its recession in the final quarter of
last year. Estonia will adopt the euro in January after
narrowing its deficit last year to 1.7 percent of GDP helped by
the government’s austerity program.  
 Kubilius Content  
 The recovery is taking hold even after Lithuanian Prime
Minister  Andrius Kubilius  pushed through spending cuts to cap
the budget deficit, undermining domestic demand. Consumer
spending will remain weak in 2010, with consumption shrinking
7.9 percent, the central bank estimates. The yield on
Lithuania’s 10-year bond fell 0.22 percentage point to 6.08
percent today.  
 “I’m content with the results of the economic recovery,”
said Kubilius in an e-mailed statement today. “This confirms
that we are going in the right direction and that the Lithuanian
economy is exiting the crisis. We need further effort and time
to contain unemployment and budget deficit challenges.”  
 Industrial output , representing about 20 percent of the
economy, grew an annual 4.5 percent in the second quarter,
compared with a 4 percent drop in the first quarter.  
 In May, the  Finance Ministry  predicted annual growth of 4
percent or 5 percent in the second quarter. The International
Monetary Fund sees the economy growing 2.1 percent for all of
2010, the most optimistic estimate amongst major forecasters.
The government expects a 1.6 percent expansion for the year.  
 The statistics office may revise today’s figures when it
publishes a detailed breakdown for the quarter on August 27.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Milda Seputyte  in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        