-- Mitsui Says Oil Tanker Possibly Attacked Near Hormuz
-- Go Onomitsu
-- 2010-07-28T19:07:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/mitsui-o-s-k-says-one-injured-in-possible-attack-on-tanker-near-iran.html

          
          
             Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd. , operator
of the world’s second-largest oil-tanker fleet, said one of its
ships may have been attacked near the Strait of Hormuz, deemed
by the U.S. to be the most important chokepoint for oil supply.  
 An explosion, which “may have been caused by an external
attack,” occurred at 5:30 a.m. Tokyo time, injuring one of the
crew, Mitsui said in a  statement . The vessel, M. Star, was on
its way to Fujairah in the United Arab Emirates to assess the
damage and no oil is leaking, Mitsui said. The tanker was
damaged by “a high wave,” the official U.A.E. news agency WAM
reported, citing Musa Murad, director of the Port of Fujairah.  
 The strait connects the Persian Gulf and the Gulf of Oman
and is a transit point for tankers hauling oil from producers
including Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Iraq and Kuwait. The most
northerly pirate attack in the Gulf of Oman to date was an
incident in October last year involving an oil-product tanker to
the south of the strait, data from the International Maritime
Bureau in London show.  
 “The seas are very rough at this time of year because of
the southwest monsoons,” said  Cyrus Mody , an official at the
IMB, which tracks piracy attacks. While a pirate attack isn’t
impossible, “it’s difficult,” he said.  
 U.S. officials said they are watching the situation
closely. “We have no information the tanker was attacked,”
said State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley . The U.S. will
continue to monitor developments, Crowley said.  
 Energy Information  
 As much as 17 million barrels of oil a day passed through
the strait in the first half of 2008, equal to 40 percent of all
seaborne-traded oil, according to the U.S. Energy Information
Administration, part of the Energy Department. Located between
Oman and Iran, the strait is 21 miles wide at its narrowest
point. Most of the oil goes to Asia, the U.S. and Western
Europe, the EIA says.  
 The tanker “suffered a high wave that resulted from an
earthquake,” the WAM agency cited the Port of Fujairah’s Murad
as saying. Earthquakes were recorded in Iran’s Hormozgan
province, along the Strait of Hormuz, at 11:13 p.m. local time
last night and 12:51 p.m. and 4:28 p.m. today, according to  data 
on the website of the Tehran-based International Institute of
Earthquake Engineering and Seismology.  
 Middle East members of the  Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries  had combined oil output of 19.9 million
barrels a day in June, according to Bloomberg estimates. Global
supply was 86.1 million barrels in June, according to the Paris-
based International Energy Agency.  
 Piracy Attacks  
 Piracy  attacks  worldwide declined 18 percent to 196
incidents in the first half of the year, the IMB said July 15.
Attacks in the Gulf of Aden, the Red Sea and around Somalia fell
to 98 from 144.  
 There was an explosion on the starboard side of the ship,
which damaged some hatches and one of the lifeboats, said Corey
Barker, a spokesman for the U.S. Fifth Fleet, speaking by phone
from the fleet’s base in Manama, Bahrain. “The cause and extent
of the damage is unknown and will be investigated,” he said.  
 Built in 2008, the double-hulled ship is 333 meters (1,090
feet) long, according to shipping data compiled by Bloomberg.
The vessel most recently stopped on the eastern coast of Qatar
and Das Island, owned by Abu Dhabi, ship-tracking data show. The
crew consists of 15 Indians and 16 Filipinos, Mitsui said.  
 The tanker was delivering a cargo to  Cosmo Oil Co. , a
Japanese refiner partly owned by Abu Dhabi, according to
Katsuhisa Maeda, a spokesman for Cosmo. It was scheduled to
arrive at its Chiba refinery near Tokyo on Aug. 17, he said.
Three-quarters of Japan’s oil imports pass through the Strait of
Hormuz, according to the EIA.  
 ‘Implications for Ships’  
 “If it turns out to be an attack it will have implications
for ships going in and out of the Strait of Hormuz, and would
lead to delays and rising tanker rates,” said  Ben Goggin , a
freight derivatives broker at SSY Futures Ltd., a unit of the
world’s second-largest shipbroker.  
 Mitsui, based in Tokyo, operates an oil-tanker fleet with a
carrying capacity of 15.42 million deadweight tons, second only
to Frontline Ltd.’s 16.75 million deadweight tons, according to
 data  on Mitsui’s website.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alaric Nightingale  in London at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net ;
 Go Onomitsu  in Tokyo at 
 gonomitsu@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        