-- Japan's Slower Production May Build Case for Stimulus Extension
-- Tatsuo Ito
-- 2010-07-29T09:17:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/japan-s-slower-industrial-production-may-build-case-for-stimulus-extension.html

          
          
             Japanese  industrial production 
probably grew at the slowest pace in more than a year last
quarter, adding pressure on the government to extend consumer
incentives as export growth cools.  
 Factory  output  rose 0.2 percent in June from May,
according to the median estimate of 26 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News ahead of a Trade Ministry report to be released
in Tokyo tomorrow. That would cap the smallest quarterly gain
since production fell in the first three months of 2009.  
 Following through with government plans to end subsidies
for purchases of energy-efficient vehicles in September may
deepen a manufacturing slowdown that is under way as growth
weakens in Japan’s biggest markets. Economic Minister  Satoshi Arai  and Trade Minister  Masayuki Naoshima  last week said the
government hasn’t decided whether to extend the enticements.  
 “Japan’s production has maintained a surprisingly robust
expansion up to now and its deceleration is unavoidable,” said
 Kenji Yumoto , director at the Japan Research Institute in Tokyo.
“Extending the car-purchase incentives could be an option.”  
 Companies surveyed by the Trade Ministry last month said
they planned to expand output by 0.4 percent in June. Should
that be realized, production for the quarter would increase 2
percent, the slowest pace since the first quarter of 2009.  
 Biggest Automakers  
 Japan’s three biggest automakers are already preparing to
scale back in anticipation of an end to the stimulus program.  
 Nissan Motor Co.  plans to cut production in Japan by about
20 percent in October and subsequent months from September’s
planned level, company spokesman  Mitsuru Yonekawa  said
yesterday.  Toyota Motor Corp.  will also pare output by 20
percent in October, the Yomiuri newspaper reported on July 21.  
 Honda Motor Co. will cut domestic production by 3.5
percent in October from the September level, Tokyo-based
spokeswoman  Kumiko Hashimoto  said by phone today.  
 A government report today showed  retail sales  improved in
June after tumbling the previous month. Spending advanced 0.4
percent on a monthly basis, after a 2 percent slide in May that
was the biggest drop since 2005.  
 Bank of Japan board member  Hidetoshi Kamezaki  said
yesterday that household spending is likely to weaken once the
incentives to buy cars ends and a separate program to spur
purchases of home appliances finishes at the end of the year.  
 “A recoil of consumption of durable goods is expected,”
he said in a speech in Sapporo, northern Japan. He said the
recovery may slow in the fourth quarter. Household spending
makes up more than half of the world’s second-largest economy.  
 Tax Incentives  
 The continuation of separate tax cuts for buying energy-
efficient vehicles, measures that are scheduled to last until
2012, make it unlikely that the government will extend the car
subsidy program, said economist  Mika Ikeda .  
 “Chances are that the government will let the subsidies
expire as scheduled,” said Ikeda, an economist at Nomura
Securities Co. in Tokyo. “There will probably be last-minute
buying of cars” before then, she said.  
 The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  has lost 11 percent over the
past three months on concern that Japan’s economic recovery
will lose momentum. Exports, the main engine of the country’s
rebound from its worst postwar recession, are already slowing.
The stock-market gauge slid 0.6 percent to 9,696.02 today.  
 Shipments abroad  advanced 27.7 percent in June from a year
earlier, the weakest expansion this year, as demand from China
and Europe waned, a government report showed this week. The
volume of shipments fell 1.2 percent in June, the second
monthly decline, according to Cabinet Office data.  
 Growth is moderating in the U.S. and China, Japan’s
biggest markets. China’s  expansion  cooled to 10.3 percent in
the second quarter after authorities tightened policy to avoid
overheating. In the U.S., growth eased to an annual 2.5 percent
pace in the same period, according to the median estimate of 80
economists surveyed ahead of figures to be released this week.  
 Japan’s gross domestic product rose at an annual 1.9
percent rate in the second quarter, slowing from 5 percent in
the first three months of 2010, the median estimate of 14
economists shows.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mayumi Otsuma  in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net ;
 Tatsuo Ito  in Tokyo at 
 tito@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Satoshi Arai, Japan's minister of national strategy, pauses during an interview in Tokyo. Photographer: Kimimasa Mayama/Bloomberg  
                   
    

 
     
         Audio Download:  Nissan's Tavares Interview About Rechargeable Leaf Car 
     
         

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
