-- Kamezaki Sees Yen Risk, Says Bank of Japan to Act `Proactively' on Prices
-- Keiko Ujikane
-- 2010-07-28T07:16:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/kamezaki-sees-yen-risk-says-bank-of-japan-to-act-proactively-on-prices.html

          
          
             Bank of Japan board member  Hidetoshi Kamezaki  highlighted economic risks of a rising yen and said the
bank will act proactively to combat deflation, a more aggressive
stance than his colleagues have indicated.  
 “We want to make utmost efforts proactively to escape from
deflation and return to a sustainable growth path under price
stability,” Kamezaki said in a speech today in Sapporo,
northern Japan. He said a weaker euro and stronger yen could
hurt exporters, who have driven the economic recovery.  
 Kamezaki’s remarks on the yen set him apart from Governor
 Masaaki Shirakawa  and his deputy  Hirohide Yamaguchi , who
refrained from singling out the currency’s appreciation as a
downside risk in public remarks earlier this month. Steeper yen
gains could be a trigger for monetary easing, said economist
 Hiroshi Shiraishi .  
 “Even though Japan’s economy is recovering, the BOJ may
need to keep the current extremely accommodative monetary stance
to ease rising pressure on the yen,” Shiraishi, an economist at
BNP Paribas in Tokyo, said before the speech. The BOJ might
consider providing “longer-term liquidity” should the currency
rise abruptly, he said.  
 The yen has climbed 6.9 percent against the dollar and 8.3
percent per euro in the past three months as concern over a
slowdown in the U.S. and Europe boosted demand for the currency
as a refuge. It traded at 88.00 per dollar at 4:12 p.m. in Tokyo
and 114.72 versus the euro, having weakened against those
currencies by more than 1 percent over the past two days.  
 Yen Risk  
 “We need to recognize the impact of the weaker euro and
stronger yen on the competitiveness of exporters and the impact
of instability of financial markets on companies’ fund-raising
activities as downside risks to the economy,” Kamezaki said.  
 The 67-year-old former trading company executive said
Japan’s  exports  will likely continue to increase, though at a
more moderate pace. Echoing recent remarks by Shirakawa and
Yamaguchi, Kamezaki said he also sees upside risks to Japan’s
recovery, including faster growth in emerging economies.  
 At a news conference after the speech, Kamezaki said a
rising yen could hurt exports in the short term and as well as
affect business investment and consumer spending. Still, he said
there’s no need to change the bank’s recovery outlook as the
world economy is rebounding and corporate profits are improving.  
 “There could be some impact from a higher yen, but we
won’t change our scenario that the economy will recover,” he
told reporters, while adding that the pace of the  expansion  is
likely to slow in the fourth quarter.  
 Stopped Short  
 Kamezaki also called for the BOJ to act “proactively” in
his previous speech in March. Other BOJ officials have stopped
short of using similar language when discussing what is needed
to overcome falling prices. Shirakawa said this month that the
central bank will maintain an “extremely accommodative”
monetary policy to fight deflation.  
 The economy has still yet to achieve a self-sustaining
rebound in private domestic demand, Kamezaki said today, adding
that a narrower gap between supply and demand is needed to
overcome deflation.  Consumer prices  excluding fresh food
probably fell for a 16th month in June, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed before figures due July 30.  
 As well as erode exporters’ profits, gains in the yen can
add to deflationary pressure by lowering the cost of imports.
Kamezaki said prices may resume rising next fiscal year, echoing
the consensus among the policy board.  
 The BOJ introduced a fixed-rate lending facility last
December after the yen touched a 14-year high of 84.83 against
the dollar and stocks plunged. The program was doubled to 20
trillion yen in March. The central bank has kept the benchmark
 interest rate  at 0.1 percent since lowering it in December 2008.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keiko Ujikane  in Sapporo at  kujikane@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Kamezaki Sees Yen Risk, Says BOJ to Act Proactively on Price  
                       
                         
                           Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Hidetoshi Kamezaki, a policy board member of the Bank of Japan, speaks during a news conference in Tokyo. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Hidetoshi Kamezaki, a policy board member of the Bank of Japan, speaks during a news conference in Tokyo. Photographer:Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
