-- Kan Reform Delays May Snap `Virtuous Circle' in Japan Debt, Barclays Says
-- Shigeki Nozawa
-- 2010-07-28T05:40:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/kan-reform-delays-may-snap-virtuous-circle-in-japan-debt-barclays-says.html

          
          
             Japanese government bond yields
may surge if Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  Naoto Kan fails to carry
out financial reforms, prompting an exodus of foreign money that
had been drawn to the safety of the nation’s assets, Barclays
Capital Japan Ltd. said.  
 Stable returns, low volatility and ample demand create a
"virtuous circle" that supports Japan’s debt market,  Tetsufumi Yamakawa , co-head of Japan research at Barclays in Tokyo, said
in a forum yesterday.  
 "The Greek and European debt crisis has drawn investor
focus to the sovereign markets of many countries, and overseas
investors aren’t so bearish on JGBs," Yamakawa said.  
 Japan’s 10-year  yields  dropped to 1.045 percent on July 22,
the lowest since Aug. 14, 2003. The yield was at 1.065 percent
today.  
 Japan’s 700 trillion yen ($8 trillion) in outstanding bonds
have a "peculiar ownership condition,’’ he said, with groups
such as retirement funds and Japan Post Bank holding about 60
percent of the total. Pension funds are starting to divest as
the population gets older, meaning purchases by the Bank of
Japan and overseas investors must increase over the long term,
he said.  
 China is heading for its biggest annual increase in its
purchases of Japanese government bonds since at least 2005, The
finance ministry reported this month. Japan’s public pension
fund sold more government bonds last fiscal year than it bought
for the first time since 2000, central bank data showed this
month.  
 Sharpe Ratio  
 Measures like the Sharpe ratio, a gauge of gains that takes
volatility into account, show Japanese debt is outperforming
U.S. Treasuries and global stocks, Yamakawa said. Delays in
deregulation and tax reforms will cause destabilization in the
debt market and a decline in risk-adjusted returns, which may
trigger investor flight, he said.  
 Japan’s  public debt  is 180 percent of gross domestic
product, the highest among members of the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development. Central and local
government borrowing totaled 882.9 trillion yen as of March 31,
up 4.3 percent from a year earlier, according to the Ministry of
Finance.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shigeki Nozawa  in Tokyo at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        