-- Kenyan Central Bank Reduces Benchmark Interest Rate After Inflation Slowed
-- Sarah McGregor
-- 2010-07-28T16:14:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/kenyan-central-bank-reduces-benchmark-interest-rate-after-inflation-slowed.html

          
          
             Kenya’s central bank unexpectedly
cut its benchmark interest rate by 0.75 percentage points,
bringing further pressure to bear on the country’s commercial
lenders to make even deeper reductions to their lending rates.  
 The Monetary Policy Committee reduced the rate to 6
percent, the Nairobi-based  Central Bank of Kenya  said today in
an e-mailed statement. Three of the four economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News forecast the bank would leave the rate unchanged
for the third time this year.  David Cowan , Citigroup’s Africa
economist, predicted a reduction of between half a percentage
point and one percentage point.  
 “This is a shock-therapy cut and it caught everyone off
guard,”  Aly-Khan Satchu , an independent Nairobi-based financial
analyst, said by phone today. “They’re trying to push commercial
banks to a tipping point.”  
 The central bank has reduced its lending rate six times
since 2009 to help spur economic growth and boost the expansion
of credit to businesses and households. The benchmark rate is
now at its lowest level since it was introduced on June 2, 2006.  
 Previous reductions in borrowing costs have failed to
prompt commercial banks to lower their average lending rates,
which fell to 14.39 percent in June from 15.1 percent a year
earlier, according to data on the central bank’s website.
Lenders in Kenya say that credit is expensive because loan
default rates are high. Even so, domestic credit grew 26.6
percent in the year to June and non-performing loans declined,
according to the statement released by the central bank today.  
 ‘Upside Risks Low’  
 The “upside risks” to inflation are low, the central bank
said.  
 Annual inflation in Kenya slowed to 3.2 percent in June,
compared with 5.3 percent in December, according to data on the
website of the Nairobi-based  National Bureau of Statistics . The
government’s inflation target is five percent.  
 The government’s economic growth forecast of between 4
percent and 5 percent this year in East Africa’s biggest economy
is “conservative” because of rising investment in agriculture
and infrastructure, central bank Governor  Njuguna Ndung’u   said
on July 20 , according to a speech on the bank’s website. Growth
was 2.6 percent last year.  
 There are indications that the 4.4 economic growth rate
registered in the first three months of the year will be
“comparable” in the second quarter, the bank said today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at   smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        