-- Korea's Won, Ringgit Lead Drop in Asian Currencies on Risk of Intervention
-- David Yong
-- 2010-07-28T09:09:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/korea-s-won-ringgit-lead-drop-in-asian-currencies-on-risk-of-intervention.html

          
          
             Malaysia’s ringgit and South Korea’s
won led declines in Asian currencies on speculation a sputtering
global economic recovery will spur central banks to support
exporters by limiting appreciation.  
 The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar  Index  retreated from a
one-month high after data yesterday showed U.S. consumer
confidence slid in July to a five-month low. The Bank of Korea
bought dollars after reporting the biggest current-account
surplus in a year, traders said. The yuan isn’t undervalued, He
Weiwen, director of the U.S.-China economic and trade research
center at the University of International Business and Economics,
wrote in the People’s Daily today.  
 “There’s still some uncertainty on the U.S. growth outlook,
so maybe there’s still a need to support exporters,” said  Tan Voon Ching , a foreign-exchange trader at OSK Investment Bank Bhd.
in Kuala Lumpur. “There’s also some concerns about slowing
those speculative fund inflows.”  
 The ringgit weakened 0.3 percent to 3.1920 per dollar as of
4:57 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The won fell 0.2 percent to 1,184.20 and the
Singapore dollar declined 0.2 percent to S$1.3639.  
 The Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the region’s 10 most-
active currencies excluding the yen, lost 0.1 percent. The gauge
reached 111.87 yesterday, the highest level since June 22.  
 Current Account  
 The won, which has dropped 5.5 percent in the past three
months, snapped a six-day rally. South Korea’s current-account
surplus widened to $5.04 billion in June, from a revised $3.82
billion the previous month. Companies including Samsung
Electronics Co. and Hynix Semiconductor Inc. this month reported
record second-quarter earnings as a weaker won boosted the
local-currency value of their overseas sales.  
 The government last month announced a tightening of limits
on currency derivatives to curb capital flows and Vice Finance
Minister Yim Jong Yong said policy makers would use “smoothing-
operation” measures to stabilize the won. The central bank
bought about $150 million in the first hour of local trading
today, according to two traders who asked not to be identified.  
 “The pace of the won’s movement will be controlled,” said
 Sung Jae Man , a currency dealer at Tong Yang Securities Co Ltd.
in Seoul. “Disappointing U.S. consumer data and the possibility
of intervention will keep the won in the 1,180s against the
dollar today.”  
 Export Outlook  
 The ringgit fell from a two-week high before Malaysia
reports June export data next week. A July 26 report showed
factory production in Singapore grew last month at a slower pace
than economists forecast, damping the outlook for shipments to
Malaysia’s biggest overseas market.  
 Yuan forwards weakened for the first time in four days on
speculation the government will curb appreciation to protect
exporters. The 12-month contracts slipped 0.1 percent to 6.6910
per dollar, signaling 1.3 percent appreciation from the spot
rate of 6.7793.  
 International Monetary Fund directors are split over
whether the yuan is undervalued, reflecting similar differences
between U.S. and Chinese officials over the nation’s exchange-
rate regime. Some IMF board members said the assumption that the
currency is too cheap is based on “uncertain forecasts” for
China’s current-account surplus, the Washington-based lender
said yesterday in a statement.  
 Equity Purchases  
 “Yuan forwards are in a range-trading environment and
there will be ebbs and flows,” said  Robert Minikin , a senior
foreign-exchange strategist at Standard Chartered Plc in Hong
Kong. “We may get a slight uptick in dollar-yuan as we hit a
soft patch in the global recovery, but conditions will improve
by year-end and by then we will see a resumption in dollar-
yuan’s decline.”  
 Taiwan’s dollar gained for a fourth day, the longest
winning streak in more than a month, as optimism a trade pact
with China will spur exports attracts global funds to the
island’s shares.  
 Overseas investors have bought more of the island’s
equities than they sold on all but one day in the past two weeks.
The government on June 29 signed an Economic Cooperation
Framework Agreement with China, the world’s fastest-growing
major economy and No. 1 destination for shipments from Taiwan.  
 “There are high expectations ECFA will boost exports and
gross domestic product this year,” said  Henry Lin , a foreign-
exchange trader at Taiwan Shin Kong Commercial Bank in Taipei.
“Investors are going to speculate on this theme for a while.”  
 The island’s currency rose 0.1 percent to NT$32.07 versus
the greenback. Elsewhere, the Thai baht slipped 0.2 percent to
32.26, while the Philippine peso advanced 0.2 percent to 45.870.
Indonesia’s rupiah gained 0.2 percent to 9,003.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lilian Karunungan  in Singapore at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
 David Yong  in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        