-- Krones Returns to Profit as Breweries, Customers Gain Access to Financing
-- Richard Weiss
-- 2010-07-28T09:23:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/krones-returns-to-profit-as-breweries-customers-gain-access-to-financing.html

          
          
             Krones AG , the world’s biggest maker
of bottling and packaging equipment, swung back to  profit  as the
economic recovery and easier access to financing prompted
breweries and soft-drink makers to invest more in machinery.  
 Net income was 12.9 million euros (16.8 million) in the
second quarter, compared with a loss of 11 million euros a year
earlier, Krones said today in an e-mailed statement. Sales
climbed 23 percent to 542.7 million euros.  
 “Customers today have better access to financing larger
orders, such as our complete filling lines, compared to a year
ago,”  Hans-Juergen Thaus , co-chief executive officer, said in
an interview.  
 New orders in the period rose 21 percent to 554.5 million
euros, increasing the backlog as of June 30 by 26 percent. The
“comfortable” backlog allows the manufacturer to avoid
contracts with large price discounts, while pricing remains a
concern, Thaus said.  
 Customers, which include brewer Anheuser-Busch InBev NV and
soft-drink producer Coca-Cola Co., bought more filling lines
costing between 2 million euros and 10 million euros. Orders of
that size make up 40 percent to 50 percent of Krones sales.
 Machinery  for making and filling plastic bottles showed strong
growth, as did Asia, Africa, and South America.  
 The company’s sales  this year  may rise by as much as 16
percent to match the 2.16 billion euros posted in 2007, with a
“clear double-digit” million euro net profit, Thaus said.  
 “Krones is on track to reach new record sales and earnings
already by 2012,”  Peter Rothenaicher , an analyst at UniCredit,
wrote in a note to clients today. He recommends clients buy the
shares and expects the stock to climb to 50 euros within a year.  
 Full Capacity  
 The Neutraubling, Germany-based company is operating at
full capacity utilization, and hired “several hundred”
temporary workers to meet demand, Thaus said.  
 The shares have risen 24 percent this year, outpacing a
gain of 14 percent for Germany’s MDAX benchmark index for
medium-sized companies. Today they were little changed at 44.05
euros, giving Krones has a market value of 1.4 billion euros.  
 Krones had a loss of 34.7 million euros in 2009, prompting
the company to suspend its  dividend . The company competes with
Sidel SA of France, a unit of Switzerland’s Tetra Pak Group, as
well as Germany’s Kloeckner-Werke AG.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        