-- Paterson Didn't Interfere in Police Probe of New York Aide, Ex-Judge Says
-- Karen Freifeld
-- 2010-07-28T21:40:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/new-york-governor-shouldn-t-face-charges-for-role-in-probe-counsel-finds.html

          
          
             New York Governor  David Paterson 
shouldn’t face criminal charges for involving himself in a
domestic violence case tied to a former top aide, according to a
report by the state’s former chief judge,  Judith Kaye .  
 Kaye, appointed by New York Attorney General  Andrew Cuomo 
to oversee an investigation, said in the report released today
that the governor made “errors in judgment” in initiating
contacts with the aide’s girlfriend. Kaye said the evidence may
warrant criminal charges only against the aide. Her
recommendations aren’t binding on Bronx District Attorney  Robert Johnson .  
 “I’d like to thank Judge Kaye, but I can’t comment on it
because I haven’t read the report,” the governor said today at
a press conference at his Manhattan office.  
 Paterson’s attorney,  Theodore V. Wells Jr . of the firm
Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison, said in a statement
that the governor “has always maintained that he did nothing
improper.”  
 “The governor is pleased that Judge Kaye, after a thorough
and independent investigation, has exonerated him of any
wrongdoing in this matter,” Wells said.  
 Telephone Contacts  
 Paterson, 56, withdrew Feb. 26 as a candidate for this
year’s governor’s election after the New York Times reported his
involvement in the assault case. The governor suspended the
aide, David Johnson, 37, without pay in February. A judge
dismissed the case a day after the governor had contact with the
woman, Sherr-una Booker, the Times said.  
 “There were numerous telephone contacts between the
governor and Booker, some that he initiated even after he became
aware of the serious nature of her accusations, and even just
after he referred this matter” to the New York attorney
general, Kaye said in the report. “These were errors of
judgment.”  
 Kaye found errors in judgment also were made by the head of
the governor’s state police protection detail, by another close
aide to the governor and by David Johnson.  
 “We are still reviewing the case,”  Steve Reed , a
spokesman for the Bronx district attorney, said in an interview
today.  
 Booker testified that David Johnson was angry about her
Halloween costume and, on Oct. 31, became violent, choking her,
throwing her against a dresser and tearing off the costume,
according to the report.  
 Low Priority  
 Johnson tried to prevent her from calling the police,
according to Booker and a friend who was present. She called 911
three times that night. The NYPD classified the incident as a
“dispute,” a low priority call, the report said.  
 More than 30 witnesses, including the governor, testified
as part of the investigation. The probe also included law
enforcement reports, 911 audio records and tens of thousands of
e-mails from the executive chamber and other state agencies, the
state police, and the personal e-mails of involved parties,
according to the report.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Freifeld  in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        