-- New Jersey Plans to Make First Pension Payment Since 2008, Treasurer Says
-- Terrence Dopp
-- 2010-07-28T17:38:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/new-jersey-2012-deficit-of-10-billion-wildly-inflated-treasurer-says.html

          
          
             New Jersey intends to contribute
$512 million to its pension funds for teachers and government
workers in fiscal 2012, its first payment in four years, State
Treasurer  Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff  said.  
 The contribution would be made in tandem with proposals to
trim employee retirement costs that Governor  Chris Christie 
plans to present to lawmakers later this year, Sidamon-Eristoff
said in an interview today in Trenton. Such moves may include
reducing the rate at which current employees earn retirement
credits or scaling back annual cost-of-living increases for
retirees, he said.  
 Christie, a Republican who took office in January, skipped
the state’s $3 billion pension contribution in his first budget
to help close a record $10.7 billion deficit for the fiscal year
that began July 1.  
 Sidamon-Eristoff, 47, in a separate interview today on
Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness With  Margaret Brennan ,”
said a legislative analyst’s projection that New Jersey faces a
$10.5 billion deficit for the fiscal year that starts July 1,
2011, is “wildly inflated.” The gap “will not be anything
near” $10 billion, the treasurer said.  
 Past Spending Ways  
 The projection from  David Rosen , chief budget officer for
the non-partisan Office of Legislative Services, “assumes that
New Jersey will return to spending habits of 2008 and 2009,”
said Sidamon-Eristoff, who was appointed by Christie. “Those
spending commitments were unsustainable and out of control.”  
 Rosen’s estimate, outlined in a July 12 memo to Democratic
lawmakers, includes the assumption that New Jersey will make a
pension payment of $3.5 billion in fiscal 2012 to address a
deficit that was calculated at $46 billion as of June 30, 2009.  
 Reducing that payment to $512 million, which Sidamon-
Eristoff said is the minimum required under a new state law,
would cut Rosen’s deficit projection by $3 billion, to $7.5
billion.  
 Rosen’s estimate also assumed the state would fully fund
local aid programs for schools and cities, adding $2.6 billion
in new spending to the 2012 budget. Those payments will not
necessarily be forthcoming, the treasurer said.  
 Christie plans to “start with fiscal 2011 and determine
what our long-term capacity is,” he said. “We have to bring
our expenses into line with our capacity to meet them.”  
 First Since 2008  
 Next year’s payment into the pension system would be the
first since fiscal 2008, when former Governor  Jon Corzine , a
one-term Democrat, made a $1 billion payment, state bond
documents show.  
 Christie and the Democratic-led Legislature filled this
year’s budget deficit largely with spending cuts. The plan cut
aid for school districts and municipalities and scaled back
property-tax rebates.  
 Senate Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Sarlo , a Democrat
from Wood-Ridge, said Rosen’s deficit projection reflects
obligations the state must meet.  
 “The structural deficit is still the same,” Sarlo said.
“They still have a legal obligation to pay those bills. It’s
definitely wishful thinking on their part.”  
 New Jersey is the third-most indebted in the U.S., trailing
only California and New York in terms of total net tax-supported
debt, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  
 Government Spending  
 The current budget “represents a new baseline for New
Jersey,” said Sidamon-Eristoff.  
 The governor on July 13 signed legislation capping annual
 increases  in New Jersey’s property taxes, the highest in the
U.S., at 2 percent. He is seeking legislative approval of a 33-
point proposal that would help local officials cut spending to
stay within the limit.  
 His proposals would allow towns to opt out of civil-service
laws, cap contract awards, curb payouts for unused sick-leave
and vacation days and end the “bumping” rights that let the
highest-paid, senior workers avoid layoffs.  
 In March, the governor signed measures requiring teachers
and government workers to contribute 1.5 percent of their pay
toward health-insurance costs and removing future part-timers
from the system. Christie, the first Republican elected New
Jersey governor since 1997, has said he’ll seek additional
changes for current workers later this year.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dunstan McNichol  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 dmcnichol@bloomberg.net ;
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 28 (Bloomberg) -- New Jersey Treasurer Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff talks about the state's budget situation and shortfall projections for fiscal 2012.
     Sidamon-Eristoff, speaking with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness," said projections that the state faces a gap of more than $10 billion for the year that begins July 1, 2011, are "wildly inflated." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
