-- New Zealand Business Confidence Declines for Second Month in July on Rates
-- Tracy Withers
-- 2010-07-28T03:54:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/new-zealand-business-confidence-declines-for-second-month-in-july-on-rates.html

          
          
             New Zealand business  confidence 
declined for a second month in July after the central bank
raised interest rates and as domestic demand remained weak.  
 A net 32.4 percent of companies  surveyed  expect sales and
profits will increase over the next 12 months, down from 38.5
percent in June, according to a survey by ANZ National Bank Ltd.
released in Wellington today. The net figure subtracts the
number of pessimists from the number of optimists.  
 Lower business confidence and falling house and retail
sales suggest the economy’s recovery from last year’s recession
is sluggish. Central bank Governor  Alan Bollard , who is expected
to raise the official cash rate for a second consecutive month
tomorrow, may pause his tightening cycle later in the year
unless growth strengthens, ANZ National said.  
 “With signs that the economy is not surging away and
momentum is leveling out, we find it difficult to envisage rates
moving up every six weeks,” said  Khoon Goh , senior economist at
ANZ National in Wellington.  
 Bollard will raise the  cash rate  a quarter-point to 3
percent tomorrow, according to all 14 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Goh expects there will be another move at the
review in September and then no change for the rest of the year.  
 The New Zealand dollar was little changed, buying 73.10 U.S.
cents at 3:20 p.m. in Wellington trading from 73.15 cents
immediately before the report was published.  
 Company Profits  
 A net 9.4 percent of the 485 companies surveyed predicted
profits will rise, down from 19 percent last month, today’s
survey showed.  
 Employment intentions fell, with 8.3 percent expecting to
hire more workers, from 13 percent in June, and fewer managers
plan to increase investment.  
 A net 27.9 percent expect the broader  economy  will improve,
sliding from 40.2 percent in the June survey.  
 House sales fell for a third month in June and it took
longer to sell a property, according to Real Estate Institute
figures published on July 14. A separate report the same day
showed  retail sales  excluding vehicles and fuel declined for a
second month in May.  
 ANZ National’s growth indicator is pointing to annual
average growth of 3 percent by late this year, down from the 4
percent pace expected earlier, Goh said.  
 “Growth momentum is easing but is far from being snuffed
out,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        