-- New Zealand Posts $199 Million Trade Surplus in June, Lagging Estimates
-- Tracy Withers
-- 2010-07-28T23:04:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/new-zealand-posts-199-million-trade-surplus-in-june-lagging-estimates.html

          
          
             New Zealand’s  trade surplus  narrowed
in June as a seasonal decline in farm production and falling
prices curbed exports.  
 The surplus shrank to NZ$276 million ($199 million) from a
revised NZ$768 million in May,  Statistics New Zealand  said today
in Wellington. That was less than the NZ$368 million median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of seven economists.  
 New Zealand’s commodity-export prices eased in June from a
record high the previous month, led by dairy and aluminum,
according to an ANZ National Bank Ltd.  index . Exports, which
make up 30 percent of gross domestic product, are expected to be
underpinned by demand from China, the biggest customer for New
Zealand milk.  
 “Exports are likely to be continuing to benefit from high
commodity prices and Chinese demand,”  Philip Borkin , an
economist at Goldman Sachs JBWere Ltd. in Auckland, said ahead
of the report.  
 The monthly figures aren’t seasonally adjusted and New
Zealand’s exports typically increase between February and May as
milk, wool and meat production peaks.  
 The surplus compared with a NZ$331 million deficit a year
earlier. As a result, the annual trade surplus widened to NZ$639
million, the most since March 2002.  
 Export Decline  
 Exports  fell 9.8 percent from a record in May to NZ$3.78
billion, today’s report showed. Sales of dairy products, meat,
crude oil and fruit led the declines.  
 From a year earlier, exports rose 17 percent, led by a 44
percent surge in dairy sales. Overseas sales of logs and
aluminum also increased. Export prices rose 53 percent from June
last year, according to the ANZ National index.  
 Exports to China increased 16 percent from a year earlier
to NZ$528 million, today’s report showed. China now buys 10
percent of total annual exports and is New Zealand’s second-
largest customer after Australia.  
 Imports  rose 2.3 percent from May to a 12-month high of
NZ$3.51 billion, led by fuel and machinery, today’s report
showed. Vehicle imports were little changed.  
 Crude oil imports fell 13 percent from May, as prices
dropped 14 percent.  
 From a year earlier, imports fell 1.6 percent because there
was a NZ$571 million purchase of aircraft in June last year.
Excluding aircraft, imports jumped 17 percent from a year ago,
led by fuel and vehicles, the statistics agency said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        