-- New Zealand Raises Benchmark Rate for Second Month
-- Tracy Withers
-- 2010-07-29T00:27:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/new-zealand-raises-benchmark-rate-for-second-month.html

          
          
             New Zealand’s central bank raised
 interest rates  for a second straight month and signaled it plans
to slow the pace of future increases, sending the nation’s
currency to its lowest level in a week.  
 “Further removal of monetary policy stimulus is
appropriate,” central bank Governor  Alan Bollard  said in a
statement in Wellington today after boosting the official cash
rate by a quarter percentage point to 3 percent. “The pace and
extent of further cash rate increases is likely to be more
moderate than was projected in the June statement.”  
 New Zealand joins nations from South Korea to India to
Malaysia in removing monetary stimulus as Asia-Pacific economies
recover from the financial crisis and grapple with rising prices.
The currency fell today after Bollard said its recent gains were
“inconsistent with the softening” of the nation’s economic
outlook and “moderation” in export commodity prices.  
 “The Reserve Bank is clearly reassessing its forecasts of
the economy,” said  Philip Borkin , economist at Goldman Sachs
JBWere Ltd. in Auckland “We now see a reasonable possibility
that the bank pauses at its September meeting.”  
 New Zealand’s dollar dropped 0.7 percent to 72.26 U.S.
cents at 11:20 a.m. in Wellington from 72.73 cents immediately
before the central bank’s statement. There is a 66 percent
chance of a quarter-point rate rise at the next review on Sept.
16, according to a Credit Suisse  index  based on swaps trading.  
 Best Performer  
 The currency has gained 10 percent against the U.S. dollar
in the past year, the best performer of the 16 major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg, and this week reached a six-month high.  
 Today’s move was predicted by all 14 economists  surveyed  by
Bloomberg News. Traders expect the rate will rise to 3.9 percent
in a year’s time, down from a 4 percent target late yesterday,
according to another Credit Suisse  index .  
 Bollard last month raised the cash rate a quarter point
from a record-low 2.5 percent, the first increase in three years,
and said he expected to gradually remove stimulus as exports
buoy the recovery and inflation pressures build.  
 “Trading partner growth has turned out stronger than we
predicted, however future prospects have deteriorated,” Bollard
said today. “While still at high levels, commodity prices have
moderated.”  
 Prices of logs, aluminum and other exports fell in June,
and milk powder auction prices declined in July for a third
month, according to  Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. , the world’s
biggest dairy exporter.  
 Exports Decline  
 Exports, which make up 30 percent of the economy, declined
9.8 percent in June from a record in May, Statistics New Zealand
said today. Sales of dairy products, meat, crude oil and fruit
led the drop. Still, overseas shipments are 17 percent higher
than a year earlier, the agency said.  
 Central banks in the Asia-Pacific region are responding to
growing demand by removing the low interest rates put in place
during the financial crisis. The  Bank of Korea  raised its
benchmark interest rate a quarter-point to 2.25 percent on July
9. The same day, Malaysia’s central bank boosted borrowing costs
for the third time this year.  
 The Reserve Bank of India on July 27 increased a key
interest rate more than economists forecast, as it battles to
contain a surge in inflation. It raised the reverse repurchase
rate a half point to 4.5 percent, and the repurchase rate to
5.75 percent from 5.5 percent.  
 Government Policies  
 Bollard’s focus is on keeping inflation between 1 percent
and 3 percent as the economy grows and Prime Minister  John Key ’s
policies affect price expectations and wage setting.  
 The government introduced an emissions trading plan
effective July 1, boosting fuel and electricity costs, and from
Oct. 1 the sales tax on all goods and services increases.  
 The governor last month forecast the consumer prices index
would rise 5.3 percent in the year ending June 30, 2011, from
1.8 percent a year earlier. Excluding the one-time events,
prices would rise 2.6 percent, he said. Today’s statement didn’t
contain new forecasts.  
 “Annual CPI inflation has been near 2 percent for the past
five quarters,” he said today. “As the economy grows,
inflationary pressures are expected to pick up.”  
 The central bank doesn’t expect the jump in prices will
have a lasting impact on inflation, Bollard said.  
 Households ‘Cautious’  
 “The outlook for economic growth has softened,” Bollard
said. “Domestic demand is subdued. Households are cautious”
and the recent slowing in immigration “will act to further
dampen consumer spending,” he said.  
 The governor on June 10 forecast the  economy  will grow 3.8
percent in the first quarter of 2011 from a year earlier.  
 “We continue to predict respectable near-term GDP
growth,” he said today.  
 House sales  fell for a third month in June and it took
longer to sell a property, according to Real Estate Institute
figures published July 14. A separate report showed  retail sa les
excluding vehicles and fuel declined for a second month in May.  
 Business confidence  dropped for a second month in July, ANZ
National Bank Ltd. said yesterday, citing a survey of 485
companies. A net 32.4 percent of companies surveyed expect sales
and profits will increase over the next 12 months, down from
38.5 percent in June.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Alan Bollard, governor of the Reserve Bank of New Zealand, speaks during a news conference at the central bank, in Wellington. Photographer: Mark Coote/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
