-- New York City Risks Larger Deficits Than Mayor Forecast, DiNapoli Says
-- Henry Goldman
-- 2010-07-28T21:26:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/new-york-city-risks-larger-deficits-than-mayor-forecast-dinapoli-says.html

          
          
             New York City’s budget for the
current fiscal year is balanced, though deficits may be worse
than the mayor predicted, said New York State Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli .  
 In his  annual review  of the city budget, DiNapoli said
today shortfalls may be as large as $5.1 billion next year,
rising to $6.8 billion in 2014. The $63.8 billion budget Mayor
 Michael Bloomberg  and the City Council approved for fiscal 2011,
which began July 1, forecast potential gaps of $3.3 billion in
2012 and $4.8 billion in 2014.  
 While revenue will probably increase by $250 million, New
York’s spending plan may have a $726 million deficit this year
because of the unexpected $626 million cost of a new teachers’
contract and the loss of $279 million in Medicaid subsidies the
U.S. Congress may not approve, DiNapoli said.  
 The city’s  budget  gaps, “already large, could grow
depending on the resolution of the risks that we have identified
for fiscal year 2011, and how the state and the city address the
loss of federal stimulus funds for education,” DiNapoli said in
his report.  
 The city balanced its budget this year by carrying over a
$3.6 billion surplus from fiscal 2010, resulting mostly from
$2.6 billion in more-than-anticipated revenue, and $1.3 billion
in reserve funds. The city also saved about $1.2 billion in
reduced agency operating costs due to improved efficiencies and
reduced services, and used another $2.6 billion in nonrecurring
resources to help balance that year’s budget, DiNapoli said.  
 Job Cuts  
 As of May, the municipal workforce declined by 6,500 jobs
in the last fiscal year, with the administration aiming to
reduce the payroll by another 1,800 jobs by the end of this
fiscal year, DiNapoli reported. State aid to the city may
decline by as much as $1.1 billion, DiNapoli said.  
 To soften the impact of a $493 million cut in state
education aid, the mayor has rescinded a proposed two-year wage
increase for teachers and principals, a period in which most
other municipal workers got 4 percent annual wage increases,
DiNapoli noted.  
 The mayor has asked the city’s unions to pay for any salary
increases through increased productivity and higher co-pays on
health insurance and other benefits. The outcome of these
proposals remains unclear, DiNapoli said, and “will be
determined through the collective bargaining process.”  
 Tax Receipts  
 Bloomberg warned of cuts to services in coming months in
testimony today before the state Financial Control Board, a
monitoring agency created during the city’s fiscal crisis of the
1970s. Even as the economy recovers, tax receipts will remain
below pre-recession level through fiscal 2012, he said.  
 “Balancing our budget involved painful tradeoffs,”
Bloomberg said. “We have, for example, not budgeted collective
bargaining wage increases for teachers, or anyone else in the
City workforce. And there will be noticeable, unavoidable cuts
to services in the months ahead.”  
 The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Henry Goldman  at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        