-- New York to Probe Legality of Benefit Retention by Insurers
-- David Evans
-- 2010-07-29T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/new-york-to-probe-legality-of-troubling-benefit-retention-by-insurers.html

          
          
             The New York State Insurance
Department plans to review the legality of an industry practice
that directs death benefits to accounts managed by carriers on
behalf of beneficiaries.  
 “It’s troubling that people are not getting an immediate
payment and that the insurance companies at least seem to be
making some effort to make money off this,”  Matthew Gaul ,
deputy superintendent and head of the New York regulator’s life
insurance division, said yesterday in an interview.  
 Gaul’s comments followed a Bloomberg Markets magazine
report profiling a practice that allowed more than 100 carriers
to retain and earn investment income on $28 billion owed to life
insurance beneficiaries. New York-based  MetLife Inc. , the
biggest U.S. life insurer, and No. 2  Prudential Financial Inc. 
are among the firms that administer these so-called retained-
asset accounts, which aren’t guaranteed by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp.  
 Insurance companies may be violating a federal bank law,
Bloomberg Markets reported. A 1933 statute makes it a felony for
any company to accept deposits without state or federal
authorization.  
 “We’re looking at the legality of this whole process,”
Gaul said. “There’s a question of whether this is really a
banking business.”  
 MetLife, Prudential  
 MetLife and Newark, New Jersey-based Prudential place death
benefits in interest-bearing accounts and issue IOUs to
survivors. Insurers market the accounts as a service to allow
bereaved beneficiaries time to think about what they’ll do with
the payout. Carriers make money by investing the funds in bonds
and keeping the difference between returns and the interest they
credit to the accounts.  
 Prudential paid survivors like Cindy Lohman, the mother of
a slain Army sergeant, 1 percent interest in 2008 on their
Alliance Accounts, while it earned a 4.8 percent return on its
corporate funds, according to regulatory filings. Lohman told
Bloomberg Markets that her IOUs were rejected twice by
salespeople when she tried to use them to make retail purchases.  
 “Beneficiaries have full access to the money in their
retained asset accounts and can withdraw the full amount right
away or at a later date,” the American Council of Life
Insurers, the industry lobby headed by MetLife Chief Executive
Officer  Robert Henrikson , said in a statement. “Retained asset
accounts provide a significant benefit to family members who are
dealing with the emotional loss of a loved one.”  
 Questioning Prudential  
 Thomas Considine, commissioner of the New Jersey Department
of Banking & Insurance, said he instructed staff to question
Prudential about Lohman’s rejected IOUs.  
 The New York regulator plans to issue a letter to insurers
urging greater disclosure of the accounts’ terms and the absence
of an FDIC backstop, Gaul said. The watchdog will then consider
whether any rules would prohibit insurers from providing the
accounts, Gaul said.  
 Pennsylvania Insurance Commissioner  Joel Ario  is
considering a plan to require insurers to obtain the consent of
beneficiaries before creating an account on their behalf. He
said in an interview that his staff is studying the issue.  
 “Prudential and its Alliance Accounts are in compliance
with all applicable laws and regulations,”  Bob DeFillippo , a
spokesman for Prudential, said yesterday.  Christopher Breslin , a
spokesman for MetLife, had no immediate comment. MetLife’s
Joseph Madden told the magazine that customers were happy with
the accounts.  
 State Protection  
 Considine, of New Jersey, said his department has never
received a complaint about retained accounts. State guarantee
funds backstop insurers and provide account holders with
protection against default by carriers, Considine said.  
 “They do bring a very, very real consumer benefit,”
Considine, who was familiar with the accounts during his 17-year
career at MetLife, said in an interview. Insurers shouldn’t be
required to obtain consent to open accounts for beneficiaries
because sometimes the bereaved aren’t ready to consider their
options for the cash, Considine said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
 David Evans  in Los Angeles at 
 davidevans@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Robert Henrikson, chief executive officer of Metlife Inc., speaks during a forum in Newe York. Photographer: Ramin Talaie/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 28 (Bloomberg) -- David Evans talks with Bloomberg's Scarlet Fu about his investigation into retained-asset accounts by life insurers and how the insurers profit from these accounts at the expense of grieving families. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 28 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's David Evans talks about the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs plans to conduct an investigation into a report that life insurance companies are putting veterans' death benefits in corporate accounts and keeping most of the investment profits instead of paying the survivors.
     The agency responded today to a report in Bloomberg Markets magazine on what has become a standard practice for life insurance policies issue by companies including Prudential Financial Inc. and MetLife Inc. Evans speaks with Carol Massar and Matt Miller on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

 
     
         Audio Download:  Open Solutions' Woldar Discusses Retained-Asset Accounts 
     
 


 
     
         Audio Download:  Jeffrey Stempel Discusses `Institutionalized Bad Faith' 
     
         

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
