-- Nippon Steel Returns to Profit After Boosting Output to Meet Asian Demand
-- Yasumasa Song
-- 2010-07-28T08:57:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/nippon-steel-returns-to-profit-after-boosting-output-to-meet-asian-demand.html

          
          
             Nippon Steel Corp. , Japan’s largest
producer of the metal, returned to a first-quarter profit after
boosting output to tap demand in Asia.  
 Net income  in the three months ended June 30 was 26.8
billion yen ($306 million), compared with a loss of 42.2 billion
yen last year, Tokyo-based Nippon Steel said today. The company
forecast first-half profit of 60 billion yen. Sales gained 30
percent to 970.6 billion yen in the three months.  
 Steelmakers in Japan are targeting sales in Asia to offset
slower domestic demand, and  JFE Holdings Inc. , the nation’s No.
2 mill, yesterday agreed to buy a 14.99 percent stake in JSW
Steel Ltd. to benefit from rising demand in India. Nippon Steel
today agreed to develop new products with Australia’s  BlueScope
Steel Ltd.  to tap construction demand.  
 “Demand was brisk as economies are in a recovery trend,”
Executive Vice President  Shinichi Taniguchi  said today at a
press conference in Tokyo.  
 Nippon Steel  rose  3.7 percent to 306 yen at the 3 p.m.
close in Tokyo trading.  
 The company  plans  to work with BlueScope Steel to develop
coated steel products for global building and construction
markets. The market for processed construction steel products is
“big,” said Taniguchi.  
 Production Target  
 Nippon Steel plans to produce about 8.4 million metric tons
of crude steel on parent-company basis in the three months to
Sept. 30, up from 8 million ton in the preceding quarter and 25
percent more than the 6.73 million tons a year earlier,
according to the statement.  
 Full-year pretax profit from operations may reach 250
billion yen, Taniguchi said, adding the forecast is provisional
because the company can’t “give a reasonable estimate for the
second half.” Pretax profit from operations last year was 11.8
billion yen, with net loss reaching 11.5 billion yen.  
 ArcelorMittal , the world’s biggest steelmaker, today said
third-quarter profit may slump as much as 30 percent from the
prior three months as China’s economy slows, cost rise and
demand weakens during the European summer.  
 JFE Holdings forecast yesterday net income will rise 2.6
times to 120 billion yen for the year ending March 31, 2011
aided by a demand recovery. This fell short of the 173.8 billion
yen average of 22 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Japan’s crude steel production increased 36 percent to 9.35
million metric tons in June, compared with a year earlier, the
Japan Iron and Steel Federation said July 20.  
 Sumitomo Metal Industries Ltd.  and  Kobe Steel Ltd. , Japan’s
third- and fourth-largest steelmakers, are scheduled to report
tomorrow.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Masumi Suga  in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        