-- Starr, UBS, Northern Rock, Credit Suisse, Morgan Crucible in Court News
-- Elizabeth Amon
-- 2010-07-28T10:33:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/northern-rock-cantor-morgan-crucible-saad-group-volvo-in-court-news.html

          
          
             Money manager Kenneth I. Starr,
facing a criminal trial on charges he defrauded his celebrity
clients of at least $59 million, was conditionally granted $10
million bail two months after his arrest.  
 U.S. District Judge Shira Scheindlin in Manhattan said
yesterday that to secure the bond, Starr must post as collateral
the homes belonging to his two brothers, a Florida condo,
$250,000 in cash and a rare book collection owned by one of the
brothers. His wife, Diane Passage, and his brothers must sign
the bond, as must a family friend who owns a charter jet
business.  
 Starr, 66, is charged with 20 counts of wire fraud and one
each of securities fraud, money laundering and fraud by an
investment adviser. He was arrested May 27 and accused of
defrauding clients, including heiress Rachel “Bunny” Mellon,
in a scheme to buy a $7.5 million Manhattan apartment. Starr,
who also represented actors Sylvester Stallone and Wesley
Snipes, has pleaded not guilty and faces a Nov. 1 trial date.  
 “This case warrants a high bail,” Scheindlin told Starr’s
lawyer, Flora Edwards, who proposed the brother’s rare book
collection and a Florida condo as security for a $2 million
bond.  
 “People must be willing to risk everything and their
entire bank life,” Scheindlin said. “I don’t believe in doing
this half-way bargain. Either they’re willing to go to the mat
for him or they’re not.”  
 The judge set the next court date for Aug. 12.  
 Assistant Manhattan U.S. Attorney Michael Bosworth declined
to comment after court.  
 “We’re going to try to make this bail package,” Edwards
said after court. “This is a very significant package and Mr.
Starr will do everything he can to meet these terms and win his
release on bail.”  
 The case is U.S. v. Starr, 1:10-cr-00520, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 For more, click here.  
 Ex-UBS Client Zabczuk Avoids Prison for Tax Crime  
 Former  UBS AG  client Paul Zabczuk, a Texas businessman,
avoided prison after admitting he hid assets from the U.S.
Internal Revenue Service and helping U.S. prosecutors probe
offshore tax evasion.  
 Zabczuk, 55, was sentenced to one year of house arrest and
fined $2,000 yesterday by U.S. District Judge William
Dimitrouleas in Miami. He faced as long as three years in
prison. The judge granted leniency to Zabczuk, who implicated a
Swiss banker, Switzerland’s Banque Cantonale Vaudoise and other
U.S. taxpayers when he pleaded guilty April 13.  
 Zabczuk said he filed a false tax return in 2004 that
didn’t report his account at UBS, the largest Swiss bank.
Zurich-based UBS avoided U.S. prosecution in February 2009 by
 paying  $780 million, turning over the names of U.S. account
holders and saying it helped Americans hide assets from the IRS.  
 BCV spokesman Christian Jacot-Descombes said in an e-mailed
statement that the bank didn’t help U.S. clients hide assets
from the IRS and that it hadn’t been contacted by the agency or
the Justice Department. He declined to comment further.  
 The case is USA v. Zabczuk, 10-cr-60112, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Florida (Miami).  
 For more, click here.  
 Merck Paid 3,468 Death Claims to Resolve Vioxx Suits  
 Merck & Co.  paid claims to the families of 3,468 users of
its Vioxx painkiller who died of heart attacks or strokes, a
court-appointed administrator told a judge yesterday.  
 A $4.85 billion settlement fund made payments to the
families of 2,878 Vioxx users who died of heart attacks and 590
who died of strokes, according to Lynn Greer of BrownGreer LLP,
a law firm in Richmond, Virginia, that analyzed 59,365 claims.  
 Merck pulled Vioxx from the market in 2004 after a study
showed it doubled the risk of heart attacks and strokes. Merck
set up the fund, which covers claims of death and lesser
injuries, in 2007 after reserving $1.9 billion to fight 26,600
Vioxx suits. U.S. District Judge Eldon Fallon in New Orleans has
overseen Vioxx lawsuits since February 2005 through a process
known as multidistrict litigation.  
 “It’s a remarkable achievement,” Fallon said at a
hearing, describing the MDL as the biggest in U.S. history. “We
have really finished the large portion of this litigation.”  
 Merck won 11 of 16 Vioxx suits at trial before agreeing in
2007 to settle all claims. Merck didn’t admit that Vioxx caused
injuries under an accord that set out how BrownGreer was to
analyze each claim, weighing such factors as a user’s age, their
length of use, and their health risks such as obesity or
hypertension.  
 Of the 59,365 original claims, 1,343 were deemed
ineligible, leaving 58,022 potentially eligible claims, said
Orran Brown, chairman of BrownGreer. Almost 25,000 claims
resulted in no payment, he said. He said yesterday that 99.9
percent of claims were resolved under the settlement program.  
 The case is Vioxx Products Liability Litigation, MDL-1657,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New
Orleans).  
 For more, click here.  
 Ex-Northern Rock CFO Fined, Banned by U.K. Regulator  
 Former  Northern Rock Plc  Chief Financial Officer David
Jones became the third executive of the bank banned from working
in the industry in the wake of the mortgage lender’s near
collapse during the credit crisis.  
 Jones was fined 320,000 pounds ($494,000) for allowing
false mortgage data to appear in the bank’s 2006 accounts, the
Financial Services Authority said yesterday in a  statement . The
correct figures would have increased the number of late payments
by customers by more than 50 percent or quadrupled the amount of
repossessions, according to the regulator.  
 “Jones had a duty to reveal the true position to the
public and to important internal committees,” FSA Enforcement
Director Margaret Cole said. “He had numerous opportunities to
put things right, but failed to do so.”  
 Former Northern Rock Deputy Chief Executive Officer David
Baker and former managing credit director Richard Barclay were
banned and fined by the FSA on April 13 for hiding the number of
impaired mortgages from the bank’s board and the wider market.
Northern Rock was the first British casualty of the U.S.
subprime market’s collapse and was taken over by the British
government in February 2008.  
 “I accept that I did not ensure that information on
residential arrears prepared and presented by others was
corrected to include certain accounts known as ‘pending
possession cases,’” Jones said in a statement. “However, I
consider that the FSA’s conclusions and imposed penalty are both
unfair and disproportionate.”  
 For more, click here.  
 Cantor Settles Suit With Ex-Carbon Brokerage Boss  
 Cantor Fitzgerald LP said Stephen Drummond, the former head
of its carbon-credits brokerage, will repay a $2 million loan
and drop an unfair-dismissal claim as part of a settlement of a
U.K. lawsuit.  
 Both sides reached a confidential agreement to end a week-
old trial, Cantor lawyer Paul Nicholls told judge Michael Burton
at a hearing yesterday in London. Drummond will repay the loan,
Cantor said in a statement.  
 Cantor sued Drummond, a former executive at  CantorCO2e , in
London for the return of the money it says it loaned him while
he was running the unit. Drummond countersued, claiming he was
wrongfully dismissed in 2009 for failing to tell the company he
was in talks with a competitor about a job.  
 Nicholls told the judge that Drummond’s employment claim
had been dropped and an agreement was reached on the loan.  
 “Drummond has agreed to repay the loan from Cantor and pay
Cantor’s costs in this action, withdrawn his claims against
Cantor, and apologized to Cantor,” Cantor spokesman Robert
Hubbell said in an e-mailed statement.  
 Drummond, who was at court, declined to comment after the
hearing.  
 The cases are Cantor Fitzgerald LP v. Stephen Drummond and
Stephen Drummond v. CantorCO2e Ltd.  
 For more, click here.  
 Former Morgan Crucible Chief Found Guilty by Jury  
 Morgan Crucible Co.  former Chief Executive Officer Ian
Norris was found guilty yesterday by a federal jury in
Philadelphia of conspiring to obstruct justice in connection
with a price-fixing scheme.  
 Norris, 67, was acquitted of allegedly trying to influence
others in their grand jury testimony and of intent to induce
others to destroy records, following about 18 hours of
deliberations where, at one point, jurors declared an impasse.  
 Norris will be sentenced on Nov. 2, and could be released
on bail in the interim. He was indicted in 2003 and extradited
from England seven years later.  
 In a trial that began July 12, defense lawyer Christopher
Curran told the jury Norris didn’t thwart the investigation and
never illegally ordered document-shredding.  
 Prosecutor Lucy McClain told jurors Norris was part of a
“long-term scheme” to stifle the probe.  
 Morgan Crucible , founded in 1856 and based in Windsor,
England, makes body armor, carbon items, ceramics, bearings and
other products for the medical, automotive, aerospace and
telecommunications industries. The company reported  sales  last
year of 942.6 million pounds ($1.47 billion).  
 The case is U.S. v. Ian Norris, 03-CR-632, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia.)  
 For more, click here.  
 Saad Group Must Pay Abu Dhabi $33.1 Million, U.K. Judge Rules  
 Saad Group, the business owned by Saudi billionaire Maan
al-Sanea, was ordered by a U.K. judge to pay $33.1 million to
 Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank PJSC  for defaulting on a foreign-
currency swap agreement.  
 Saad Trading Contracting & Financial Services Co.’s
defenses that Abu Dhabi didn’t terminate the swap agreement on
time or specify a bank account for payment were “hopeless,”
Judge Michael Brindle ruled yesterday in the High Court in
London.  
 Saad defaulted when its credit rating was withdrawn in June
2009, Brindle said. The company, based in al-Khobar, Saudi
Arabia, argued the default applied to other deals between the
companies and not to the 2008 swap created for Saad to hedge
against future currency fluctuations.  
 Saad Group’s press office in London didn’t return a call
for comment.  
 Ex-Freenet CEO Spoerr and CFO Krieger’s Fines Cut  
 Former  Freenet AG  Chief Executive Officer Eckhard Spoerr
and Chief Financial Officer Axel Krieger won reductions in fines
and asset seizures against them for criminal insider trading.  
 After rehearing the case, the Hamburg Regional Court
yesterday sentenced Spoerr to pay a fine of 75,000 euros
($97,500) and ordered him to give up 327,000 euros in profits
made in the transactions. Krieger was fined 120,000 euros and
the judges seized 324,000 euros in profits he made, court
spokesman Janko Buesser said in an e-mailed statement.  
 When they were originally convicted on the charges of using
insider information to sell shares in the German Internet and
mobile-phone company last year, Spoerr was fined 300,000 euros
and Krieger received a 150,000-euro fine. Both men have denied
wrongdoing. While the Federal Court of Justice earlier this year
upheld the conviction on appeal, it ordered the Hamburg court to
re-sentence the men.  
 “The chamber seized the complete advantage the two
defendants got from the illicit transactions,” said Buesser.
“They didn’t have losses which other shareholders had.”  
 Marc Langrock and Otmar Kury, the men’s lawyers, said they
would appeal yesterday’s sentence as well.  
 “Today’s verdict, even though it reduced the sanctions by
more that 50 percent, doesn’t comply with the requirements the
Federal Court of Justice forcefully ordered,” the lawyers said
in an e-mailed statement.  
 The trial judges wrongfully seized about 700,000 euros from
each man, the equivalent of the sale price of the shares, the
appeals court had ruled. It ordered the trial judges to
recalculate the amount and to seize only that part of the sales
price increased by selling early using inside knowledge.  
 Spoerr and Krieger each sold about 62,000 shares in several
transactions for 1.2 million euros in July 2004, while knowing
about the drop in sales in the second quarter that year,
according to the trial court’s findings. The stock slumped 25
percent on Aug. 9, 2004, when Freenet reported its results.  
 Both men have said they had already decided in 2003 to sell
the shares they were to receive under a stock option program as
soon as they became available. The earliest possible date to
sell those shares was July 2004.  
 For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  
 New Suits  
 Volvo Sues Nippon Unit in U.K. Over Price Fixing of Car Glass  
 Volvo Car Corp.  sued a  Nippon Sheet Glass Co.  unit in
London over its involvement in a car-glass price-fixing cartel
that ended two years ago with European Union fines of 1.4
billion euros ($1.82 billion.)  
 The carmaker is seeking “substantial” damages from
Nippon’s  Pilkington Group Ltd.  unit for charging too much for
windshields and other car glass from 1998 to 2003, Volvo’s law
firm Hausfeld & Co. said yesterday in a statement. The lawsuit
was filed July 2 in the High Court in London, records show.  
 “The car-glass cartel was fined at record levels” by the
European Commission “and caused substantial damage to Volvo and
others in the struggling car industry,” Anthony Maton, a lawyer
with Hausfeld in London, said in the statement.  
 The commission in November 2008 fined Pilkington,  Asahi
Glass Co. ,  Cie. de Saint-Gobain SA  and Soliver for conspiring to
fix prices and allocate markets. The companies at the time
controlled about 90 percent of the market for car glass used in
the EU region in new cars and branded replacement glass for
cars, Volvo said in its statement. Pilkington was fined 370
million euros for its role in the cartel.  
 David Roycroft, a spokesman for St. Helens, England-based
Pilkington, didn’t return a call for comment.  
 The case is Volvo Car Corporation v. Pilkington Group
Limited, HC10C02207, High Court of Justice Chancery Division
(London).  
 For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  
 Lawsuits/Pretrial  
 Rajaratnam Says Prosecutors Misled Judge on Wiretaps  
 Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam’s attorney said
prosecutors misled the judges who authorized secret wiretaps
that form the basis of a federal insider-trading probe.  
 Before arresting Rajaratnam last year, prosecutors secretly
recorded roughly 2,400 conversations that the hedge fund
executive had with more than 130 friends, business associates
and alleged accomplices. Prosecutors have said their evidence
against Rajaratnam will include testimony from government
witnesses who were heard swapping illegal stock tips with
Rajaratnam as well as the recordings themselves.  
 In Manhattan federal court yesterday, Rajaratnam’s attorney
John Dowd argued that prosecutors violated federal law by
misleading judges who allowed the secret wiretaps about the
background of Roomy Khan, the ex- Intel Corp.  executive whose
disclosures prompted the investigation. He said an FBI agent
omitted or distorted important evidence in order to win
permission to tap Rajaratnam’s phone.  
 “These are facts that any judge would want to know,” Dowd
told U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell, who is presiding over
the case.  
 Rajaratnam, 53, is accused of using secret information from
insiders to make millions of dollars on illegal stock trades.
Danielle Chiesi, a former consultant at New Castle Funds LLC who
was arrested with Rajaratnam, is also seeking to exclude the
wiretaps. Both have denied wrongdoing.  
 The case has led to charges against 21 people. Twelve
pleaded guilty, and several agreed to testify against
Rajaratnam. He faces more than 20 years in prison if convicted
of securities fraud and other crimes.  
 Dowd said in court that prosecutors and a Federal Bureau of
Investigation agent concealed Khan’s criminal record, her seven-
year history of cooperating with the government, her “flip-
flopping” during interviews and her efforts to escape
punishment. Had prosecutors made those disclosures, the wiretaps
wouldn’t have been approved, he argued in court.  
 “There’s some force to defendant’s arguments,” Holwell
said, while adding that he need not exclude the recordings at
the trial even if he finds that the government should have been
more forthcoming in its wiretap applications.  
 Assistant U.S. Attorney Reed Brodsky told Holwell that the
legal threshold for prosecutors to obtain a wiretap is a
“relaxed” one. He said the judges who weighed the wiretap
requests were dealing “in probabilities,” not “certainties,”
that Rajaratnam had broken the law.  
 The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-cr-01184, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 For more, click here.  
 Credit Suisse Wins Dismissal of Claims by Pension Fund  
 Credit Suisse Group  AG won dismissal of damage claims by a
U.S. pension fund that bought Credit Suisse Global shares on the
Swiss Stock Exchange.  
 U.S. District Judge Victor Marrero in Manhattan, applying
the U.S. Supreme Court’s recent “Morrison” decision, said U.S.
buyers of a foreign stock on a foreign exchange can’t sue for
securities fraud under U.S. law.  
 In the Morrison case, the  Supreme Court  ruled on June 24
that U.S. securities laws don’t apply to claims of foreign
buyers of non-U.S. company shares on foreign exchanges, so-
called “foreign cubed” cases.  
 Marrero ruled yesterday that the Supreme Court would also
bar claims involving “foreign securities trades executed on
foreign exchanges even if purchased or sold by American
investors, and even if some aspects of the transaction occurred
in the United States.”  
 In his decision, Marrero threw out claims by the Louisiana
Municipal Employees Retirement System against Credit Suisse. The
pension plan had claimed damages on behalf of itself and other
investors who purchased Credit Suisse Global stocks on the Swiss
exchange from February 15, 2007, to April 14, 2008.  
 Marrero left in place claims by investors based on
purchases of American depositary shares on the New York Stock
Exchange.  
 The Morrison decision turned an earlier appeals court test
for applying securities fraud laws to foreign transactions into
a “dead letter,” Marrero said in the ruling.  
 Louisiana Municipal Employees Retirement System Director
Robert Rust didn’t return a voice-mail message seeking comment
on yesterday’s ruling.  
 The case is Cornwell v. Credit Suisse Group, 08-cv-3758,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 Smith & Wollensky Pay Suit Gets Class-Action Status  
 The  Smith & Wollensky  steakhouse chain must face a class-
action lawsuit over hourly wages, a judge ruled.  
 Smith & Wollensky, a unit of closely held Patina Restaurant
Group, allegedly failed to pay the minimum wage to employees who
earn tips. The suit will include all workers earning sub-
minimum, tip-credit wages from March 25, 2006, until now, U.S.
District Judge Ruben Castillo in Chicago said July 26 in an
order certifying the suit as a class action.  
 Also included are workers who worked more than 40 hours a
week and were paid less than a time-and-a-half.  
 The New York-based chain violated a federal law allowing
pay to tipped employees of less than the minimum wage -- a “tip
credit” -- if the tips plus wages equal the minimum wage,
according to a worker’s complaint.  
 The employee, Gerald Schmidt, claimed the restaurant
required servers to perform duties outside their tipped
positions and to share tips with non-tipped employees.  
 Smith & Wollensky didn’t return a message seeking comment.  
 The company argued the lawsuit was filled with “highly
individualized” inquiries and shouldn’t be a class-action case,
according to Castillo’s order.  
 The case is Schmidt v. Smith & Wollensky LLC, 09-cv-2752,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  
 For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  
 Trials/Appeals  
 Kebble Paid $273,000 to Order His Own Murder, Court Hears  
 South African mining magnate Brett Kebble paid Glenn
Agliotti 2 million rand ($273,000) to have his own murder
arranged five years ago, one of the men who said he was hired to
perform the assassination told a Johannesburg court.  
 Nigel McGurk, a nightclub doorman, yesterday told the South
Gauteng High Court that he was one of three men who followed
Kebble through northern Johannesburg in a black Volkswagen Golf
on the night of Sept. 27, 2005. Boxer Michael Schultz shot
Kebble seven times on his third attempt at the killing that
night after the murder weapon twice jammed, McGurk said.
Agliotti has been charged with Kebble’s murder.  
 Agliotti was a friend of Kebble’s and was paid to arrange
the killing, McGurk said, citing a conversation he says he had
with Clinton Nassif, who recruited McGurk, Schultz and a driver,
Faizel Smith. The four men have turned state witness to avoid
prosecution.  
 In an 11=year career in South Africa’s gold mining
industry, Kebble helped set up two of the country’s four biggest
gold companies,  Harmony Gold Mining Co.  and  DRDGold Ltd. , and
became chief executive officer of  Randgold & Exploration Ltd. ,
JCI Ltd. and Western Areas Ltd. He stepped down from the posts a
month before his death at the insistence of creditors after
assets belonging to Randgold & Exploration went missing.  
 Agliotti has pleaded not guilty to charges of murder,
conspiracy to murder and attempted murder. He has said that the
death of 41-year-old Kebble was an “assisted suicide” and had
been requested by the mining executive.  
 The case is State v. Agliotti, Norbert Glenn, JPV 2008/264,
SS154/2009.  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  
 Litigation Departments  
 Mallesons Hires Clifford Chance Partner for Hong Kong  
 Mallesons Stephen Jaques  hired commercial litigator Denis
Brock from  Clifford Chance LLP  to be a Hong Kong-based partner
as the firm boosts its disputes resolution and regulatory
practices to meet client demand.  
 Brock, 48, said he will return to Hong Kong from London,
where he moved in 2006. He will join Mallesons’ 17-lawyer, Hong
Kong-based disputes and regulatory practice in October, Tony
O’Malley, a Sydney-based managing partner, said in a phone
interview.  
 Mallesons, based in Sydney, has more than 1,000 lawyers in
Australia and Asia, including 16 partners based in Hong Kong.
The firm advised Bank of China during an investigation by Hong
Kong regulators into the sale of minibonds, products linked to
the collapsed  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Minibonds were
custom-made securities linked to the creditworthiness of
companies and backed by collateralized-debt obligations.  
 Brock, who is leaving Clifford Chance after 24 years with
the firm, acted for the Hong Kong government in litigation over
the proposed listing of the real estate investment trust, Link
REIT. The Court of Final Appeal ruled in 2005 that the initial
public offering could proceed.  
 For the latest litigation department news, click here.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at   eamon2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        