-- Nvidia, Vlingo, Air Jamaica: Intellectual Property (Update1)
-- Victoria Slind-Flor
-- 2010-07-28T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/nvidia-vlingo-assa-air-jamaica-governors-america-intellectual-property.html

          
          
               Nvidia Corp. , the world’s second-
largest maker of computer-graphics chips, plans to appeal a
patent ruling lost to  Rambus Inc.  and said customers including
Hewlett-Packard Co. won’t see any disruption to their supplies.  
 The U.S. International Trade Commission in Washington  said 
July 26 that Nvidia chips infringed three Rambus patents, and
issued an order that would ban imports of certain products
containing the chips. Nvidia said it can continue sales by
taking advantage of a licensing arrangement Rambus reached with
European regulators as part of an unrelated antitrust case.  
 Rambus, which got about 96 percent of its $113 million in
revenue last year from patent-licensing royalties, filed the
complaint against Santa Clara, California-based Nvidia after the
two were unable to reach a licensing agreement. Rambus, based in
Los Altos, California, has spent more than a decade suing
computer-memory chipmakers that refused licensing deals.  
 As part of an agreement reached with the European
Commission last year, Rambus agreed to license its patents
related to memory controllers at a rate that wouldn’t exceed 40
cents a unit.  
 “That’s revenue to us: It resolves the future; it doesn’t
resolve the past,” Rambus General Counsel Tom Lavelle said in
an interview. Rambus still expects Nvidia to pay “past damages
for the eight years they were infringing our patents and not
paying us,” he said.  
 Rambus has a civil lawsuit pending to seek that money. The
ITC doesn’t have the authority to impose monetary damages, only
to block imports of the offending products.  
 By paying the European-set rate, Nvidia avoids an ITC order
that would ban imports of some products containing the chips and
prohibit sales of imported goods already in the country.  
 The bans are subject to review by U.S. President Barack
Obama. The underlying patent case will be appealed to a court in
Washington that specializes in patent law. Nvidia also is
challenging the patents in a review before the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office.  
 The European Commission license “will allow us and our
partners to continue our business under the terms of that
license and prevent the enforcement of any exclusion order,”
Nvidia said in an e-mailed statement.  
 The ITC case is In The Matter of Semiconductor Chips Having
Synchronous Dynamic Random Access Memory Controllers and
Products Containing Same, 337-661, U.S. International Trade
Commission (Washington).  
 For more, click here.  
 MTS to Pay $7.5 Million to Settle Hysitron Patent Dispute  
 MTS Systems Corp. , a maker of systems for testing the
mechanical behavior of materials and products, will pay $7.5
million to settle a patent-infringement dispute with  Hysitron
Inc .  
 Hysitron, based in Minneapolis, sued MTS in federal court
in Minnesota in March 2007, alleging that two patents for
hardness testing and surface imaging were infringed.  
 According to an MTS statement issued yesterday, Hysitron
will receive a payment of $7.5 million and neither party will
admit liability or wrongdoing. The dispute related to a product
line Eden Prairie, Minnesota-based MTS divested in 2008,
according to the company statement.  
 The case was Hysitron Inc., v. MTS Systems Corp., 0:07-Cv-
01533-ADM-AJB, U.S. District Court, District of Minnesota.  
 Vlingo Licenses Patent Portfolio from Intellectual Ventures  
 Vlingo Corp ., the Massachusetts company that sued  Nuance
Communications Inc.  for patent infringement on July 22, has
taken a license to an undisclosed number of patents held by
 Intellectual Ventures , according to an IV statement. Vlingo is a
provider of voice applications for telephones.  
 Intellectual Ventures of Bellevue, Washington, was started
in 2000 by  Nathan Myhrvold , the former chief technology officer
at Microsoft Corp., and  Peter N. Detkin , the former manager of
litigation at Intel Corp.  
 According to the statement, Intellectual Ventures now has
“more than 30,000 IP assets.”  
 In June,  Finmeccanica SpA  and  Thales SA ’s Alenia Space took
a license to what IV described in a  statement  as a “significant
patent portfolio describing hundreds of inventions related to
satellites communication systems as well as additional patent
rights.”  
 The Vlingo license agreement covers “a large portfolio”
including patents acquired for defensive purposes, according to
the statement. It doesn’t mention whether the patents cited in
the suit against Nuance were among those licensed by IV.  
 The case against Nuance is Vlingo Corp. v. Nuance
Communications Inc., 1:10-cv-00621-UNA, U.S. District Court,
District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 For more patent news, click here.  
 Copyright  
 Manhattan Property Developer Sued for Copyright Infringement  
 Solly Assa, a Manhattan real-estate developer and the co-
founder of New York’s Assa Properties, was sued for copyright
infringement by a design company.  
 Graham Hanson Design LLC of New York designed the
promotional materials including the website for Assa’s midtown
Manhattan condominium project at 511 9th Ave., according to
court papers. The design company billed Assa and 511 9th more
than $95,000 from December 2008 to January 2009 and hasn’t been
paid, the company said in the complaint filed July 20 in federal
court in Manhattan.  
 Under contract terms, the copyright for the design work was
to stay with the design company until “outstanding sums are
paid,” according to court papers. The project has used the
design firm’s work “continuously” since it was developed and
has never paid, Graham Hanson Design claimed.  
 The company asked the court for money damages, including
all it is owed by the developer, attorney fees and litigation
costs. The design company requested that the damages due for the
unpaid fees be tripled to punish the developer for his actions.  
 Graham Hanson Design also sued Assa in February. In that
suit, the designer was seeking almost $48,000 in unpaid fees in
connection with design work for the Waterscape condominium
project in midtown Manhattan.  
 That case is still in litigation. Lawyers for Waterscape
have moved to have it dismissed.  
 The design company is represented in both cases by  Andrew
C. Levitt  of  O’Hare Parnagian LLP  and  Daniel A. Nelson  of  Nelson
& McCulloch LLP , both in New York.  
 The older case is Graham Hanson Design LLC v. Waterscape
Resort LLC, 1:10-cv-00963-BSJ-RLE; the new case is Graham Hanson
Design LLC v. 511 9th LLC, 1:10-cv-05493-UA. Both are in U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 For more copyright news, click here.  
 Trademark  
 Jamaica Keeps Some Air Jamaica Mark Rights, Government Says  
 Caribbean Airlines will be permitted to use government-
owned Air Jamaica Ltd.’s trademarks for one year, and
potentially can renew the license every year for a royalty of $5
annually, Audley Shaw, Jamaica’s minister of finance and the
public service, said in a  statement .  
 Caribbean Airlines, based in Trinidad, bought Air Jamaica
in May.  
 The Jamaican government will retain rights to continue
using the marks in any way it did before the May 1 agreement,
and may also use them in any other way that doesn’t compete with
Caribbean Airlines’ activities, Shaw said.  
 Caribbean Airlines may use the trademarks only in
connection with its Jamaican operations, according to the
statement.  
 The license agreement will be terminated if Caribbean
Airlines becomes bankrupt or files to run Jamaican operations to
an agreed-upon minimum service level. The government of Trinidad
& Tobago must retain at least 50.1 percent ownership of
Caribbean Airlines for the agreement to remain in force, Shaw
said.  
 Governors America Sues Over Fake Products Sold on EBay Site  
 Governors America Corp. , a maker of engine controls, filed
a trademark-infringement lawsuit in connection with the
importation and sale of counterfeit products from China.  
 Governors America, based in Agawam, Massachusetts, has been
selling electromechanical and electronic engine controls for
more than 20 years, according to a complaint filed July 26. It
has used the company name as a mark since 1988, and registered
the trademark with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office in
August 2009, the complaint said.  
 On July 15, the company discovered what it said were
counterfeit items being sold on  EBay Inc. ’s auction website
bearing the Governors America trademark without authorization.  
 The trade dress of the fake was “virtually identical” to
that of legitimate products including use of the trademark, the
company said, except that they were labeled “made in China,”
according to the complaint filed in federal court in
Springfield, Massachusetts.  
 The company said its products aren’t made in China, and
it’s harmed by the importation and sale of fakes. Fakes also
confuse the public, the company said.  
 The suit lists five unidentified people and an equal number
of unnamed entities as defendants. EBay isn’t a defendant.  
 Governors America asked the court for money damages,
attorney fees and litigation costs, and for an order barring
further infringement of its marks.  
 The company is represented by  James C. Duda  and  Michael
Roundy  of  Bulkley, Richardson & Gelinas LLP  in Springfield.  
 The case is Governors America Corp., v. John Does, U.S.
District Court, District of Massachusetts (Springfield).  
 For more trademark news, click here.  
 IP Moves  
 Jones Day Hires MoFo’s Michael Vella for Shanghai IP Group  
 Jones Day  hired Michael W. Vella to work in its Shanghai
intellectual property practice, the firm said in a  statement .
 Vella , a litigator, joins from San Francisco’s  Morrison &
Foerster LLP .  
 Vella has also practiced at  Baker & McKenzie  and served as
a judicial clerk to Judge Roger B. Andewelt of the U.S. Court of
Federal Claims. He has represented clients in the electronics
and biotechnology industries. In addition to patent, trademark
and copyright litigation, Vella has handled license
negotiations.  
 Vella has undergraduate and law degrees from the University
of California at Berkeley.  
 Norton Rose Expands Asian IP Practice with Two From DLA Piper  
 Norton Rose LLP  hired Gigi Cheah and Justin Davidson for
its Asian IP practice, the London-based firm said in a July 20
 statement . Both joined from the Hong Kong office of Chicago’s
 DLA Piper LLP .  
 Before she worked at DLA Piper, Cheah served as Asia
regional counsel for 3Com Corp. She has done transactional work
for clients in the life sciences and telecommunications.  
 She holds an undergraduate and a master’s degree in law
from the University of Sydney.  
 Davidson does both transactional and litigation work. He
has handled patent, trademark, copyright, design rights and IP
aspects of technology spinoffs and corporate acquisitions.  
 He previously practiced at the Hong Kong office of London’s
 Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer .  
 Davidson received his law degree from the University of
Nottingham and has a diploma in IP law from the University of
Bristol.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        