-- Obama Plan to Fund $300 Billion of Small-Business Loans Faces Senate Vote
-- Laura Keeley
-- 2010-07-28T19:57:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/obama-plan-to-fund-300-billion-of-small-business-loans-faces-senate-vote.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  visited a New
Jersey sandwich shop to bolster support for his plan to create
$300 billion of small-business loans and more jobs as the Senate
neared a vote on the package.  
 “When you listen to the struggles that small business
owners are still facing, it is obvious we need to do more,”
Obama said today at the Tastee Sub Shop in Edison, where he met
with business owners.  
 A vote may come as early as this evening if agreement on
amendments can be reached, according to Richard Carbo, spokesman
for Senator  Mary Landrieu  on the Small Business and
Entrepreneurship Committee. The package includes $12 billion in
tax breaks and $30 billion of capital for community banks to
promote small-business lending.  Banks  could leverage that sum
into $300 billion of loans that create jobs, according to a
Senate summary.  
 Obama’s plan must overcome doubts among lawmakers about the
cost, whether it’s a bank bailout and how many of the loans will
get repaid. Maine Senator Olympia Snowe, ranking Republican on
the small business  panel , says the plan promotes risky loans by
rewarding banks that lend more and punishing those that don’t.  
 The goal is to create jobs and bring down the 9.5 percent
jobless rate. Entrepreneurs create 64 percent of new jobs,
according to the Small Business Administration.  
 Job Creation  
 “There’s nothing more important to our economic expansion
now than getting small businesses and entrepreneurs in a
position where they are investing and hiring,”  Gene Sperling ,
counselor to Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner , told reporters
on a conference call yesterday.  
 The plan calls for the U.S. Treasury Department to buy
preferred stock with a 10-year term in lenders that have assets
of $10 billion or less. The shares will pay an initial dividend
of 5 percent, dropping to 1 percent if the banks increase small-
business loans or rising as high as 7 percent if the loans stay
the same or decrease. For all recipients, the dividend resets
after 4-1/2 years to 9 percent to encourage repayment.  
 Democrats are pushing for final approval this week before
the Senate’s August recess, according to Carbo. The panel has
heard banks aren’t lending to healthy firms, he said.  
 While the fund is no “silver bullet,” it will help get
money to creditworthy firms, said  Todd McCracken , the National
Small Business Association’s chief executive officer.  
 ‘Good Businesses’  
 “There may be some businesses right on the line that banks
don’t feel comfortable lending to right now that might get funds
when this goes into effect,” said McCracken, whose Washington-
based lobby says it represents 150,000 firms. “These are good
businesses, not dead businesses, which are going by the wayside
due to record-tight credit.”  
 Snowe sees a “red flag” in linking lending to the
dividend rate. “If the bank fails to increase its small-
business lending, the interest rate it pays could rise to a more
punitive 7 percent,” Snowe said in an e-mailed statement.
“Banks would make risky loans to avoid paying higher interest
rates.”  
 Snowe cited a May report from the Congressional Oversight
Panel, which said the incentives may spur lax lending practices.
“As evidenced by recent events, imprudent lending activity may
in turn inflate a small-lending and commercial loan bubble,”
the report said.  
 Risk Assessment  
 Congressional supporters say the program will make a
profit, and the limited term of the investment will encourage
banks to avoid losses, according to the Treasury.  
 “Banks will ultimately need to repay this money in full to
exit the program,” Sperling said in an e-mailed comment. “They
should have a strong incentive to make sure the loans they make
with that capital will eventually be paid back.”  
 The program also faces a “TARP Stigma” because of its
resemblance to government’s Troubled Asset Relief Program that
may limit participation, according to the report. Community
bankers complained that healthy banks were tarred when funds
were used to save faltering lenders, and about TARP’s
restrictions on pay and retroactive rule changes. The small-
business program doesn’t do that, according to Carbo, and the
bill sets minimums for profit, reserves and liquidity.  
 Supporters include The Independent Community Bankers of
America, whose Washington-based lobby represents almost 5,000
lenders, and the American Bankers Association, which represents
some of the largest financial firms.  
 Cash Needs  
 “If I had cash, there are people ready to work,” said
Geoffrey Lenart, 47, owner of Eastpointe, Michigan-based Seven
Seas Travel. Lenart said his 5-person firm was denied a loan in
2009 to improve its exterior. “I’m not the exception by any
means,” he said.  
 Frank Sorrentino III, CEO of the North Jersey Community
Bank, said his company didn’t take TARP money and won’t use this
program, either, citing concern about rule changes.  
 “Nowhere in the TARP program did anyone realize they would
be subject to compensation rules,” said Sorrentino, whose
Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey-based bank has $560 million in
assets and seven branches. “What will be in this program and
what will you be subject to? A bank tax? God knows what.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laura Keeley  in New York at 
 lkeeley@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       President Barack Obama Small Business Meeting  
                       
                         
                           Saul Loeb/AFP/Getty Images 
                         
                         President Barack Obama orders a sandwich before meeting with small business owners at the Tastee Sub Shop in Edison, New Jersey. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     President Barack Obama orders a sandwich before meeting with small business owners at the Tastee Sub Shop in Edison, New Jersey. Photographer: Saul Loeb/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
