-- Obama Cracks Down on Fraud, Opens Door to Abuse: Caroline Baum
-- Caroline Baum
-- 2010-07-28T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/obama-cracks-down-on-fraud-opens-door-to-abuse-caroline-baum.html

          
          
             Finally something the president and
Congress can agree on.  
 Last week, President  Barack Obama  signed the Improper
Payments Elimination and Recovery  Act  (IPERA), a bipartisan
measure passed unanimously by both houses of Congress.  Improper
payments  are those made “in the wrong amount, to the wrong
person or for the wrong reason,” according to the White House.
In most circles, that would be called fraud.  
 In 2009, improper payments totaled almost $110 billion, the
highest on record. Among the usual suspects were paying benefits
to dead people and reimbursing providers for fraudulent health-
care claims.  
 Obama expects the new law to save $50 billion in wasteful
spending by 2012. Good luck with that. At least he didn’t
appoint a commission or a waste czar (Her Improper Highness?) to
fix the problem. And that’s the best one can say about Obama’s
attempt to burnish his deficit-cutting credentials after 18
months of nothing but  spending .  
 Each new spending initiative or targeted benefit creates
vast new opportunities for fraud and abuse as folks try to
qualify, legally or illegally, for the handout.  
 The first-time homebuyers’ tax credit ended up going to
children, inmates serving life sentences and  homeowners  who
bought houses before the law went into effect. The government’s
careful monitoring of stimulus funds was exposed as anything but
when a group of independent journalists at  Watchdog.org  found
that 440 phantom districts in the U.S. received $6.4 billion of
stimulus funds and created or saved 30,000 jobs. And that’s just
a reporting error. Who knows where the money really went.  
 Stimulating Abuse  
 In short, the Obama administration is creating incentives
for fraud and abuse quicker than it can clean up existing ones.
Federal subsidy programs crossed the 2,000 mark early this year,
according to the Cato Institute, a libertarian think tank in
Washington.  
 “The problem is that whatever improvements are made, the
size and scope of government is expanding so rapidly that
federal auditors are still falling behind,” says  Chris Edwards ,
manager of Cato’s project on  downsizing government .  
 This is hardly the first time a president has made an
effort to increase government efficiency and reduce waste and
fraud.  Bill Clinton  was set on “Reinventing Government.”
 George W. Bush  had his “Management Agenda.”  Ronald Reagan 
outsourced the job to the Grace Commission. And  Teddy Roosevelt 
appointed a “Keep Commission” in 1905 with the task of
modernizing government.  
 Good Intentions, Bad Execution  
 When you throw in all the recommendations over the years
from the Congressional Budget Office, the Office of Management
and Budget, the Government Accountability Office, various
congressional committees, presidential commissions and private
groups, you have to wonder why we’re 234 years older (as a
nation) and $13.2 trillion deeper in  debt .  
 Clearly there’s something preventing presidential
aspirations from becoming reality. That something is called
Congress.  
 “The president can be well-intended, have the support of
taxpayer groups and run into members of Congress who talk about
cutting spending but not necessarily a project they like,” says
 Tom Schatz , president of  Citizens Against Government Waste , a
private, non-partisan group committed to exposing and
eliminating wasteful spending.  
 ‘Prime Cuts’  
 CAGW maintains a list of “ prime cuts ,” which this year
includes 763 recommendations drawn from various government
 sources  that would save taxpayers $350 billion the first year
and $2.2 trillion over five years.  
 Some of their proposals are hardly sexy, such as increased
circulation of the $1 coin, which would save $522 million a
year, according to a 2000 GAO report.  
 Then there’s the  alternate engine  for the Joint Strike
Fighter.  
 “Bush wanted to eliminate it, Obama wants to eliminate it,
everyone at the Pentagon agrees it should be eliminated,”
Schatz says. Yet it’s a "$485 million earmark” for Indiana,
Ohio, Kentucky and Massachusetts, where the GE/Rolls-Royce
engine is manufactured. (The F-22 fighter was eliminated, and
the C-17 cargo plane wasn’t funded this year, according to
Schatz.)  
 Better Roadmap  
 President Obama previously proposed a three-year freeze on
non-security  discretionary spending  and a “Do-Not-Pay” list
for agencies to easily identify repeat fraud offenders. The law
he signed last week requires federal agencies to spend at least
$1 million annually to audit payments and impose penalties for
non-compliance. (File this under, “spend money to save
money.”) It increases transparency and creates incentives for
agencies to save money by allowing them to keep a portion of
unspent balances at fiscal year-end.  
 Getting Congress to do something is another matter,
although this year, as Schatz points out, lawmakers may have to
cut, rather than increase, spending to appeal to anxious voters.  
 There’s another problem. Proponents of big government
programs can’t seem to understand that spending other people’s
money is a lot easier than spending one’s own. That’s why the
presumed savings in ObamaCare will turn out to be a chimera.  
 Think of how much simpler, cheaper and more effective it
would be to give the elderly a voucher, as outlined in Wisconsin
Congressman  Paul Ryan ’s  Roadmap , and let individuals decide how
and where to spend it rather than spend money to try and find
$60 billion in annual Medicare fraud.  
 I just have one question for President Obama. It may seem
silly, I know, but do you think there’s a connection between the
burgeoning size of government and the increase in waste, fraud
and abuse?  
 Just wondering.  
 ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        