-- Obama Meets Donors to Promote Plan to Aid Small Businesses, Raise Money
-- Roger Runningen
-- 2010-07-29T00:07:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/obama-to-tout-small-business-plan-in-new-jersey-raise-funds-in-new-york.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  met privately
with Democratic donors and made a pitch for his plan to aid
small businesses on a trip that combined campaigning for his
economic policies and raising money.  
 Obama was helping the Democratic National Committee at two
private events in New York City today, where donors paid as much
as $30,400 to attend. With elections that will decide control of
Congress less than four months away, the president is seeking to
wrap up congressional action on parts of his agenda while also
trying to help Democrats keep control of the House and Senate.  
 Polls show the sluggish economic recovery, lagging job
growth and a federal  deficit  projected to hit a record $1.47
trillion this year will be top issues for voters in the midterm
elections. Consumer confidence fell in July to a five-month low
on concern about jobs and wages, the Conference Board reported
yesterday.  
 In a stop earlier in Edison, New Jersey, Obama met with a
group of small-business owners to highlight his initiative to
free up credit and provide tax incentives to spur hiring. The
House has passed the legislation, and Senate Democratic leaders
are aiming to vote before they leave for an August recess.  
 “Government can’t guarantee success,” Obama said at a
sandwich shop where he met with the owner and four other
entrepreneurs from the area. “But it can create the conditions
for small business to hire more people.”  
 Promoting Policies  
 Today’s event in New Jersey was one of three Obama has
scheduled over the next week to highlight his economic policies.
The president also plans to headline two more fundraisers in
Illinois and Texas in the next two weeks.  
 Obama’s focus, in his talk with the business owners at the
Tastee Sub Shop in Edison, was his plan to provide $12 billion
in tax breaks, ease terms for loans guaranteed by the Small
Business Administration and create a $30 billion fund to help
community banks offer loans to small businesses.  
 With about 8.4 million  jobs  lost during the recession, the
measure aims to help small business, which accounts for about
two-thirds of U.S. jobs. Obama said help for such enterprises
shouldn’t fall victim to election-year politics.  
 “Democrats and Republicans ought to be able to agree on
this bill,” he said. “Small businesses are the backbone of our
economy.”  
 Republican Critics  
 Critics call it a replay of the $700 billion bank bailout
in 2008 and say it could also induce banks to make risky loans.  
 “The lack of credit for small businesses is a problem that
needs to be addressed,” Alabama Republican  Richard Shelby  said
during the Senate debate. “I do not, however, believe that we
should try and solve this problem with another expensive and
bureaucratic government program.”  
 In New York Obama was the headline guest at two
fundraisers, one at the Four Seasons Hotel and the other at the
home of Vogue editor  Anna Wintour .  
 About 50 people were invited to each event for a donation
of $30,400 per person, the highest amount permitted to a
political party under federal election law, according to a
Democratic Party official who spoke on condition of anonymity in
order to discuss financial matters. Both events were closed to
the press and the DNC didn’t release a list of those attending.  
 Donation Data  
 While Obama has targeted Wall Street for criticism over the
financial crisis, employees in the securities and investment
industry have given 56 percent of their donations to Democratic
candidates and party committees for the 2010 election, according
to the Center for Responsive Politics, a Washington-based
research group.  
 That’s the Democrats’ highest percentage for an off-year
election since 1990, when they received 57 percent of Wall
Street contributions.  
 So far in this election cycle, Democratic candidates and
party committees have gotten $29 million from Wall Street
donors, compared with $22 million for Republicans.  
 Before the fundraisers, the president taped an interview
for ABC’s “The View,” which is scheduled for broadcast
tomorrow.  
 By combining the small-business event with the fundraisers,
Obama is cutting the cost of the New York appearances to the
Democratic Party.  
 Federal Election Commission rules allow for such sharing of
presidential expenses, dividing the part of the trip that is
“official” against the remaining “political” portion.
Presidents of both parties have made use of that provision.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Roger Runningen  in Edison, New Jersey, at   rrunningen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       President Barack Obama Small Business Meeting  
                       
                         
                           Saul Loeb/AFP/Getty Images 
                         
                         President Barack Obama orders a sandwich before meeting with small business owners at the Tastee Sub Shop in Edison, New Jersey. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     President Barack Obama orders a sandwich before meeting with small business owners at the Tastee Sub Shop in Edison, New Jersey. Photographer: Saul Loeb/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
