-- Models Miss Risk of Falling Confidence: David G. Blanchflower
-- David G. Blanchflower
-- 2010-07-28T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/models-miss-risk-of-falling-confidence-commentary-by-david-blanchflower.html

          
          
             Consumer confidence is low and
dropping around the world. And I am worried.  
 In a “60 Minutes” interview on June 7, 2009, U.S. Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said: “Well, I absolutely
agree that confidence is key. People don’t know what’s
happening. And they’re afraid. And they’re not sure what, you
know, whether or not the system is going to recover. So, how do
you get confidence, that’s the question. And I think the way to
get confidence is to show progress.”  
 Improvements in what  John Maynard Keynes  called these
animal spirits -- which he defined as “a spontaneous urge to
action rather than inaction” -- are vital if we are to see a
recovery emerge from what is, hopefully, a once-in-a-lifetime,
financial cataclysm.  
 When the U.S. housing market began to collapse in 2006,
animal spirits among businesses and consumers started falling
precipitously from July of that year. A broadly similar story
happened about six months later in the U.K.  
 The Monetary Policy Committee at the Bank of England holds
its monthly meetings on the first Wednesday and Thursday of each
month. On the Friday before, at what is called Pre-MPC, the
staff economists brief the committee on the data developments
during the previous month. After that meeting, the MPC enters a
purdah period, the next of which starts this Friday.  
 Real World  
 I recall sitting through countless presentations through
the early part of 2008 and being told not to draw any inferences
from the decline of the various pieces of qualitative data from
both consumers and businesses.  
 The young staff economists, who were mostly freshly minted
doctorate holders, were more interested in estimating open-
economy dynamic stochastic  general equilibrium models  (DSGE)
than thinking about what was going on in the real world. In any
case, we were told these survey responses didn’t correlate well
with observed outcomes, so they should be ignored. It turns out
they were wrong; they were lead indicators.  
 The bank’s agents would report monthly to this meeting that
their business contacts were telling them things were pretty
bad. The scores they produced for sales, output, investment and
employment intentions all started falling rapidly from mid-2007.
Nobody showed much interest in what I called the economics of
 walking about . But they had it right.  
 Weakening Trends  
 At the same time, the Baltic Dry Index of shipping costs
collapsed to a low of 663 on Dec. 5, 2008, from its peak of
11,793 on May 20, 2008. It rose through 2009, but has dropped
more than 50 percent since the middle of May. This mostly
reflects declining world steel production and car manufacturing.  
 Animal spirits followed much the same path as the Baltic
Dry, picking up strongly through 2009. Now they have stalled,
even  going into reverse  in the past few months. It turns out
this isn’t unique to the U.S., but has also occurred in the U.K.
The worry is that they are heading down once again.  
 The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of consumer sentiment fell to 66.5 in July from 76 a month
earlier, below forecasts. Readings on consumer expectations and
current conditions also fell in early July from June. The
expectations reading fell to 60.6, the lowest level since March
2009, from 69.8. Meanwhile, the current-conditions reading
declined to 75.5, the lowest since November, from 85.6.  
 Falling Confidence  
 This week, the Conference Board’s consumer-confidence
index, which had declined in June, retreated even further in
July. The index now stands at 50.4, down from 54.3 in June. It
is made up of the present situation index, which decreased to
26.1 from 26.8, and the expectations index, which, relating to
conditions six months ahead, fell to 66.6 from 72.7 last month.  
 The three series are plotted in Chart 1 since 2004.
Interestingly, from 2004 to 2008 the present situation index was
well above the expectations, but with the onset of recession,
they switched. Consumers have been expecting the future to be
better than the present and hence there have been a series of
negative surprises.  
 A similar situation now exists in the U.K. The Nationwide
 consumer confidence index , which is plotted in Chart 2, fell in
June for the second month running. Of particular note, the
expectations index fell from 94 to 88 compared with an increase
from 23 to 24 in the present situations index.  
 It is clear from the chart that the same broad pattern
holds in the U.K. as in the U.S. -- the expectations index is
well above the current measure since the end of 2008. The gap
between expectations and outcomes is even more marked in the
U.K. than in the U.S. Expectations appear to have been
especially optimistic for the last couple of years in the U.K.  
 Marked Risks  
 The question is whether this falling consumer confidence,
along with a declining Baltic Dry, tells us anything about
consumer spending or investment. I suspect it does. At the least
it suggests to me that there are marked risks to the recovery.  
 Consumers in both the U.K. and the U.S. are fearful of high
and rising unemployment and falling incomes. Fiscal retrenchment
is likely to hurt confidence even more.  
 The danger is that this will generate a further downward
spiral. And watch out for those economists with their worthless
Markov-switching DSGE economic models who will probably tell you
this decline in expectations doesn’t mean much.  
 What do they know?  In such circumstances, common sense
prevails. Confidence is the key. The worry is we aren’t making
enough progress.  
 ( David G. Blanchflower , a former member of the Bank of
England’s Monetary Policy Committee, is professor of economics
at Dartmouth College and the University of Stirling. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
David Blanchflower at  david.g.blanchflower@dartmouth.edu   
          
          


  


        