-- Oliver Stone's Showtime Series Should Be Canceled, Billionaire Saban Says
-- Andy Fixmer
-- 2010-07-28T20:48:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/oliver-stone-s-showtime-series-should-be-canceled-billionaire-saban-says.html

          
          
             Billionaire  Haim Saban  called on CBS
Corp.’s Showtime Networks to cancel  Oliver Stone ’s planned
“Secret History of America” documentary series after the
filmmaker made remarks that were criticized as anti-Semitic.  
 Saban, creator of the “Power Rangers” franchise and an
investor in Univision Communications Inc., urged New York-based
 CBS  to cancel the 10-hour series, his spokeswoman,  Stephanie Pillersdorf , said today in an e-mail.  
 “Anyone who works with this guy should be ashamed,”
Saban, who is Jewish and a supporter of Israel, said in comments
posted at  HuffingtonPost.com  and confirmed by Pillersdorf.
“Oliver Stone should be given a helping hand --indeed, a
vigorous shove -- into the land of forced retirement.”  
 Stone apologized two days ago for an  interview  with the
Sunday Times of London that provoked an outcry from groups
including the  American Jewish Committee . He told the newspaper
“Hitler did far more damage to the Russians than the Jewish
people, 25 or 30 million.” He discussed what he called “Jewish
domination of the media,” and said Israel has “f***** up
United States foreign policy for years.”  
 Rich Licata , a Showtime spokesman, declined to comment on
Saban’s statement. The network said this week it hasn’t set a
release date for “Secret History,” which is still in
production. The views expressed in the Times interview aren’t
part of the series, Showtime said.  
 Celebrity Stumbles  
 CBS Radio fired talk-show host  Don Imus  in April 2007 amid
protests over racial epithets he used to describe the Rutgers
University women’s basketball team. Summit Entertainment LLC is
weighing how to proceed with  Mel Gibson ’s latest film, “The
Beaver,” following RadarOnline.com’s release of audio
recordings of the actor purportedly using racial epithets.  
 “In trying to make a broader historical point about the
range of atrocities the Germans committed against many people, I
made a clumsy association about the Holocaust, for which I am
sorry and I regret,” Stone said in a statement released on July
26 by his publicist, Rubenstein Communications.  
 Stone’s spokeswoman didn’t immediately respond to a request
for comment today.  
 In the Times  interview , Stone was promoting a documentary
on Venezuelan leader  Hugo Chavez . He also discussed the “Secret
History” project, which is being produced by his Ixtlan
Productions.  
 “Hitler was a Frankenstein, but there was also a Dr.
Frankenstein,” Stone told the Times. German industrialists, the
Americans and the British. He had a lot of support.”  
 In January, Stone said the series will place historical
figures including Hitler and Stalin “in context” and suggested
that Hitler was made an “easy scapegoat” by history, the
U.K.’s Telegraph reported at the time.  
 ‘Professional Wilderness’  
 Stone belongs “in the professional wilderness,” said
Saban, who was reported by Forbes magazine to be worth $2.8
billion. “Standing on a splintered soapbox right next to  Mel Gibson ’s he can preach his anti-Americanism and anti-Semitism
into the wind.”  
 David Harris , executive director of the  American Jewish
Committee , said in a statement this week that Stone “has outed
himself as an anti-Semite.”  
 News Corp.’s Fox studio is scheduled to release Stone’s
“Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps” on Sept. 24, according to
the Internet Movie Database. The film, a sequel to the 1987 hit,
features  Michael Douglas  in a reprise of his role as financier
Gordon Gekko, along with  Shia LaBeouf  and  Josh Brolin . It cost
$70 million to make, according to IMDB.com.  
 Fox, part of  Rupert Murdoch ’s media empire, plans no
changes in the movie’s release, said  Chris Petrikin , a spokesman
for the studio, said this week.  
 “Jews obviously do not control media or any other
industry,” Stone said in his apology. “The fact that the
Holocaust is still a very important, vivid and current matter
today is, in fact, a great credit to the very hard work of a
broad coalition of people committed to the remembrance of this
atrocity -- and it was an atrocity.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andy Fixmer  in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        