-- Molycorp IPO Aims at Loosening China's Grip on Metals Used in Smart Bombs
-- Lee Spears
-- 2010-07-28T16:29:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/molycorp-ipo-aims-at-loosening-china-s-grip-on-metals-used-in-smart-bombs.html

          
          
             Molycorp Inc. is trying to convince
investors it can loosen China’s grip on everything from smart
bombs to hybrid cars by reopening the largest non-Chinese
deposit of rare-earth metals in the world.  
 The company is seeking $478 million in a U.S. initial
public offering today to start its  mine  in the Mojave Desert,
which was shut down eight years ago, its regulatory filing
showed. Molycorp hasn’t made a profit since its inception in
2008 and will use the IPO to refurbish the facilities and
compete with Chinese producers that supply 97 percent of the
metals, which are used to make magnets found in Raytheon Co.’s
 Tomahawk  cruise missiles and Toyota Motor Corp.’s  Prius  sedans.  
 Molycorp is counting on buyers to fund a mine that may lose
money for two more years as it tries to revive a site that once
met almost all the world’s demand for the metals. While the
company’s IPO may benefit from a lack of U.S. competitors and
concern from lawmakers that China’s export limits will cause a
shortfall, Molycorp hasn’t proven it can process the elements
commercially and faces environmental standards that raise costs.  
 “It’s very much a leap of faith,” said  John Stephenson , a
Toronto-based money manager at First Asset Investment, which
oversees about $1.6 billion. “Having a deposit is not enough.
You have to be able to bring it in on time and on budget.”  
 Even so, the U.S. government may “decide that this is
critical in their national interest to have a domestic supplier
and lock that up,” he said.  
 Neodymium, Ytterbium  
 The  rare-earth elements  are 17 chemically similar metals,
such as lanthanum, cerium, neodymium and ytterbium. They are
used in magnets for everything from cell phones and electric
cars to guided missiles and targeting systems for  tanks .  
 Each Toyota Prius requires four kilograms of rare-earth
materials for its motor and battery, according to  Jack Lifton ,
an independent commodities consultant and strategic metals
expert who has studied mining for more than 47 years.  
 While they are relatively abundant in the earth’s crust,
finding deposits large enough to mine is less common, the U.S.
Geological Survey said. Global demand for the elements may
increase 45 percent by 2014 from its level in 2008, Molycorp’s
 filing  with the Securities and Exchange Commission showed.  
 Molycorp of Greenwood Village, Colorado, is selling  28.13
million  shares for $15 to $17 each to restart U.S. production
just as China, the world’s biggest supplier of the metals, is
planning further export restrictions.  
 Power Play  
 Shipments from China, which began reducing output in 2006
to cut pollution, will decrease by 72 percent in the second half
of this year, a Ministry of Commerce statement on July 8 showed.
That gives China “market power” over the U.S., a report from
the  Government Accountability Office  in April showed.  
 U.S. Representative  Ike Skelton  of Missouri, chairman of
the House Armed Services Committee, in April called for an
inquiry after the GAO report exposed vulnerabilities for the
American military because of its use of Chinese metals.  
 About 80 percent of magnets made from neodymium are
produced in China, with most of the remainder coming from Japan.
Almost none are produced in the U.S.  
 “If there was any effort on the part of producers to limit
the supply, that’s where the main concern would come in,” said
 Belva Martin , the GAO’s acting director of acquisition and
sourcing management, who oversaw research for the April report.  
 Molycorp’s IPO is part of a half-billion dollar plan at its
mine near  Mountain Pass, California , to replace equipment and
facilities that are more than 20 years old and ramp up
production in two years.  
 History Lesson  
 The 2,222-acre site, an open-pit mine located 60 miles
southwest of Las Vegas in the Mojave Desert, produced a majority
of rare-earth materials from 1965 to 1985, the GAO report said.  
 While U.S. deposits also exist in several states such as
Idaho, Wyoming and Utah, they are still being explored and could
take as many as 15 years before becoming fully operational,
according the GAO report.  
 Private-equity firms  Resource Capital Funds  of Denver and
Pegasus Capital Advisors in New York bought Molycorp’s
 predecessor  Molybdenum Corp. of America from Chevron Corp. in
2008 to restart rare-earth mining as global demand increases.  
 After falling about 50 percent during the global economic
crisis, prices for rare-earth oxides have climbed about 70
percent on average since October, the filing showed.  
 Supply-Side Advantage  
 “It’s an asset play where the supply and demand is skewed
very heavily towards the suppliers,” said  Jack Ablin , chief
investment officer at Chicago-based Harris Private Bank, which
oversees $55 billion. “It may be more of an opportunistic play
on the future as demand for these materials continues to grow.”  
 The mine may yield 19,050 metric tons of rare-earth oxides
annually at full production, equal to 38 percent of the amount
that China exported last year, Molycorp’s SEC filing showed.  
 The company may get about 57 percent of its revenue in 2013
from neodymium iron boron alloy, which is used in magnets for
electric car motors and lasers, according to London-based
researcher Independent International Investment Research Plc.  
 Until that time, Molycorp expects to lose “substantial”
amounts of money. The company’s first-quarter net deficit
widened 38 percent to  $7.75 million  from a year earlier after
selling its stockpiles at a loss. It lost $28.6 million in 2009.  
 Molycorp’s Mountain Pass mine also doesn’t have substantial
amounts of “heavy” rare-earth elements, which command higher
prices and are used in many defense-related projects.  
 Lottery Ticket  
 “It may be an interesting concept, but it’s a highly risky
deal,” said  Josef Schuster , the Chicago-based founder of IPOX
Capital Management LLC, which oversees $3 billion. “The
likelihood of finding a big winner from this kind of deal is
probably as high as buying a winning lottery ticket.”  
 At an IPO price of $16, the company would be valued at 2.61
times its net tangible assets of $6.12 a share, a measure of
shareholder equity that excludes assets that can’t be sold in
liquidation, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 Based on the current value of Molycorp’s future cash flows,
the stock is valued at $14.19 each, 11 percent less than its
midpoint IPO price, according to Independent International
Investment Research.  
 The share sale will come after two U.S. companies this week
postponed or delayed their IPOs and one company,  Envestnet Inc. 
of Chicago, cut the size of its offer by as much as 36 percent.
Oklahoma City-based Chesapeake Midstream Partners LP is also
selling shares in a $446 million IPO today.  
 Radioactive Spill  
 Molycorp will also spend $187 million, almost 40 percent of
the IPO proceeds, through 2012 to meet federal, state and local
environmental laws to limit pollution. The company uses acids to
leach rare-earth oxides from ore before they are processed into
alloys to make magnets, its filing showed.  
 Processing at the site was halted in 1998 after a pipeline
to carry away effluents leaked  radioactive waste . The mine
closed four years later after it couldn’t get permits to build
additional waste storage facilities, according to its filing.  
 The regulations Molycorp faces may raise costs and inhibit
growth, while China’s dominant position allows its producers to
undercut competitors on price if it decides to ease export
quotas, according to  Peter Sorrentino , who helps oversee $13.3
billion at Huntington Asset Advisors in Cincinnati.  
 “The regulatory process drags on, and it drags on for much
longer than you think it’s going to,” he said. “There are
people who are going to make a lot of money on this. I don’t
need to be the pioneer.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Tsang  in New York at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net ;
 Lee Spears  in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Molycorp Inc chief executive officer Mark Smith. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
