-- Hong Kong Peak Site Fetches $1.34 Billion, Below Some Surveyors' Estimates
-- Andrea Wong
-- 2010-07-28T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/hong-kong-peak-construction-site-sold-for-1-34-billion-close-to-estimate.html

          
          
             Nan Fung Development Ltd. and  Wharf
(Holdings) Ltd.  bid HK$10.4 billion ($1.34 billion) for a site
in Hong Kong, falling short of some surveyors’ estimates and
sending property stocks to the biggest drop in almost two weeks.  
 The price at a government auction yesterday for the Mt.
Nicholson Road site in the Peak district was lower than the
HK$10.5 billion median estimate of seven analysts in a Bloomberg
News survey. Their forecasts ranged from HK$8.9 billion to
HK$11.5 billion, or HK$27,000 to HK$35,000 per square foot of
gross floor area.  
 The government has been trying to curb a 38 percent  surge 
in home prices since the beginning of 2009 amid concerns housing
is out of reach of ordinary residents. The  Hang Seng Property
Index  turned lower after the auction result, ending down 1
percent at the 4 p.m. close in Hong Kong.  
 “The market is worried we’re going to have a bubble burst
again like after 1997,” when the market peaked, said  Trevor Cheung , an analyst at BNP Paribas in Hong Kong.  
 Hong Kong’s luxury home prices have been fueled by record-
low mortgage costs and buying by mainland Chinese. The city’s
home prices have gained 9.6 percent this year and last week rose
to the highest since 1997, according to Centaline in a July 23
report.  
 Luxury Prices  
 Luxury home prices may rise another 10 percent in the
second half if interest rates stay at two-decade lows and the
local economy keeps growing, property consultant Jones Lang
LaSalle Inc. said this month.  
 Nan Fung, a privately held developer, and Wharf will
develop the site in one of the city’s most exclusive residential
areas in a 50-50 venture, said  Donald Choi , managing director at
Nan Fung, after the  auction . Wharf owns two of Hong Kong’s
largest shopping centers.  
 The site at 103 Mt. Nicholson Road, formerly used for
government staff quarters, has a total gross floor area of
324,861 square feet (30,180 square meters). The auction was
initiated by the government, which has pledged to increase land
supply as part of its measures to keep home prices in check.  
 About 30 percent of the gross floor area at the plot will
be used to build townhouses, while the rest will be used for
apartments, Choi said. At HK$10.4 billion, the developers paid
HK$32,014 per square foot for the gross floor area.  
 ‘Rare Location’  
 It is a “unique site in a very rare location” and there
are not that many sites at the Peak, Choi said. He said the
price was “reasonable.”  
 Martin Lee , the youngest son of  Henderson Land  billionaire
chairman  Lee Shau-kee , in May paid HK$1.82 billion, or a record
HK$68,200 per square foot, for a site on Barker Road in the Peak
district at an auction held by Jones Lang. Lee said afterward he
would use the site to build houses for his family.  
 “Hong Kong land prices are already so expensive,” Hang
Lung Properties Ltd. Chairman  Ronnie Chan  said at the company’s
full-year earnings briefing yesterday as the auction elsewhere
in the city got underway. “With that kind of price we can
develop three or even four Hang Lung plazas in Shenyang” in
northeastern China, he said, referring to estimates of about
HK$10 billion for the Peak site.  
 Most government land sales in recent years have been
triggered by  developers  who promised to pay minimum amounts for
sites on a list of available plots under the so-called land
application system. Regular government land auctions were halted
in 2004 to support falling home prices.  
 Four Bidders  
 The auction attracted four bidders, with only two vying for
the site from HK$9 billion.  
 “The atmosphere was not as good as we expected; there was
no aggressive bidding at all,” said  Alnwick Chan , executive
director at property consultant Knight Frank LLP. “The demand
is there but the market is relatively small. There’s speculation
that because there are three other sites coming up to auction
catering to the middle to upper income groups, they’re saving
their resources for that.”  
 The government will sell two sites in the Kowloon area at
auction on Aug. 17 and a residential plot in Kowloon Tong
district on Aug. 31.  
 Demand for luxury properties is being supported by a lack of
new supply and an influx of mainland Chinese buyers, who account
for about 20 percent of local residential transactions this year,
Ricky Poon, managing director for residential sales at Colliers
International Ltd., said before the auction.  
 Luxury Demand  
 “This is a normal price; for a luxury site, demand is
always there because developers are not taking a lot of risks,”
said  James Cheung , a director at the surveyor unit of Centaline
Properties Ltd., one of the city’s biggest real estate agencies.
“There will continue to be a healthy growth in Hong Kong’s
property market.”  
 Nan Fung paid HK$3.42 billion in May for a site in the
city’s Tung Chung area in the government’s first land auction in
the fiscal year that started April 1. The price was a third less
than surveyors’ estimates.  
 Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. , the world’s biggest developer
by market value, last month bought a site in the Ho Man Tin
district for HK$10.9 billion. At HK$12,540 per square foot, it
was the highest price paid in a government auction in urban Hong
Kong since the market peaked in 1997. The gross floor area for
the site is 869,000 square feet.  
 Luxury homes in Hong Kong are those at least 1,000 square
feet or costing at least HK$10 million.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kelvin Wong  in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Donald Choi, managing director of Nan Fung Development Ltd., makes the winning bid. Photographer: Jerome Favre/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A government site up for auction at 103 Mt. Nicholson Road, center, towers above the Peak district in Hong Kong. Photographer: Jerome Favre/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
