-- Mortgage-Bond Spreads Surpass Lows Reached During Federal Reserve Buying
-- Mary Childs
-- 2010-07-28T19:02:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/mortgage-bond-spreads-surpass-lows-reached-during-fed-emergency-purchases.html

          
          
             Yields on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
mortgage securities that guide U.S. home-loan rates reached
record lows relative to 10-year Treasuries as investors search
for higher returns amid limited  refinancing  by borrowers.  
 Fannie Mae’s current-coupon 30-year fixed-rate  mortgage 
bonds narrowed 0.02 percentage point to about 0.58 percentage
point more than 10-year Treasuries as of 1:45 p.m. in New York,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The gap reached 0.59
percentage point on March 29, two days before the  Federal
Reserve  ended its buying of $1.25 trillion of so-called agency
mortgage bonds. The spread matched that low two weeks ago.  
 Mortgage-bond returns are on pace this month to beat
Treasuries’ gains by the most since February 2009, as the U.S.
auctions off debt at the lowest yields on record. Debt buyers
are focusing on signs that the country’s recovery from the
deepest recession since the 1930s is failing to accelerate,
rather than better-than-projected corporate  earnings .  
 “It’s been a rip-roaring month for agency mortgages,”
said  Guy LeBas , chief fixed-income strategist at Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia. “There’s a huge demand
for lower-risk assets in the marketplace. With Treasury yields
so low, everybody’s looking for an alternative.”  
 The average price of the $5.2 trillion of mortgage bonds
guaranteed by government-supported Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac or
federal agency Ginnie Mae rose to a record of 106.69 cents on
the dollar yesterday, from 106.21 cents on June 30, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Mortgage Master Index.  
 ‘Overseas Demand’  
 The debt has returned 0.66 percentage point this month more
than Treasuries with maturities similar to the securities’
projected average lives, according to Barclays Capital  index
data .  
 “Overseas demand has been very, very strong” and “supply
hasn’t really hit the table at the pace that people would expect
in this interest-rate environment,”  Matthew Peterson , a
mortgage-bond trader in New York at RBC Capital Markets, said in
a telephone interview.  
 Lenders have been selling about $2 billion to $3 billion of
securities into the market a day, he said. While the  typical
rate  on a 30-year loan has been hovering near record lows,
 refinancing applications  declined in the latest week and remain
more than 47 percent below their 2009 peak, the Washington-based
Mortgage Bankers Association said today.  
 “The limited response to record low mortgage rates points
to a credit pendulum that has swung from overly lenient to
overly tight,”  Scott Buchta , head of investment strategy at New
York-based Braver Stern Securities LLC, said in an e-mail.  
 Punish Investors  
 Faster-than-anticipated prepayments on mortgage bonds
trading for more than face value punish investors by returning
their cash more quickly at par, rather than offering higher
coupon payments for a longer period.  
 Fannie Mae’s 6.5 percent securities, backed by loans with
higher rates than current-coupon bonds, climbed to a record
109.94 cents on the dollar yesterday, from 107.22 cents on Dec.
31, Bloomberg data show.  
 Loans within the securities carry rates of about 7 percent
on average, compared with an average rate on new home loans of
4.69 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and the
Mortgage Bankers Association.  
 As Europe’s sovereign debt crisis roiled markets in May,
net purchases of agency asset-backed bonds by foreign investors
reached $17.3 billion, the most since the Treasury Department
began including the figure in monthly reports in March 2009,
according to data released July 16.  
 Volatility Expectations  
 Prices also have gained as a  Barclays index  measuring
expectations for interest-rate volatility, based on prices for
so-called swaptions, fell 19 percent since May 6. That partly
reflects investor speculation that the Fed will hold its rate
benchmark at a record low for longer amid what Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  this month called an “unusually uncertain” outlook.  
 Greater volatility harms mortgage-bond prices because it
makes bigger rises or drops in rates more likely, pushing
refinancing and home sales higher or lower. Slower prepayments
cause investors to receive their money back slower, typically as
higher market yields make their investments less attractive.  
 Low short-term rates also boost the attractiveness of
longer-term debt to the types of investors that use borrowed
money to invest, ranging from banks to hedge funds.  
 “If you think about a low vol environment, you’re going to
go for incremental yield,” RBC’s Peterson said.  
 At the same time, some money managers whose performance is
measured against bond indexes are buying agency mortgage debt
because they have been holding less than found in the benchmarks
on the expectation spreads would widen after the Fed’s buying
stopped, he said.  
 Jumbo Loans  
 Non-agency mortgage debt, which isn’t found in such
indexes, is being boosted by projected yields that “look pretty
attractive” and offer good “carry,” such as the 4 percent to
5 percent found with bonds backed by prime-jumbo loans,  Jesse Litvak , a Jefferies & Co. trader, said in an e-mail. Alt-A
mortgage securities, backed by loans ranked between prime and
subprime, may yield 7 percent to 9 percent, he said.  
 Yields on Fannie Mae’s current-coupon securities have
fallen to 3.64 percent from this year’s high of 4.67 percent on
April 5, after reaching a record low of 3.51 percent on July 16,
Bloomberg data show. Jumbo loans exceed limits for Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac, currently as much as $729,750 in some areas.  
 After falling to as low as 63 cents on the dollar in March
2009, typical prices for the most-senior securities backed by
fixed-rate jumbo loans rose to 86 cents last week, according to
Barclays data. That was unchanged from previous week, and 1 cent
higher than a month earlier. Similar  Alt-A  bonds traded at 76
cents, up 1 cent on the week and 2 cents from a month earlier.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        