-- Mexican Tortillas Assure Carstens Lending Rate Can Stay Steady
-- Jonathan J. Levin
-- 2010-07-28T20:01:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/tortillas-tell-mexico-central-bank-rates-can-stay-steady-without-inflation.html

          
          
             Corn tortillas in northwest Mexico
City cost 9 pesos a kilogram (32 cents a pound) last month.
Angeles Garcia recorded the same price in her notebook after
visiting a bakery in the neighborhood a week ago.  
 That’s a relief for her boss, Mexican central bank Governor
 Agustin Carstens , as he seeks to tame inflation. Garcia, 65, is
part of a 91-person team based in 46 Mexican cities whose daily
trips to supermarkets, funeral homes and travel agencies produce
the raw data for the country’s  consumer price index .  
 “It’s been very stable here,” said Garcia, who as an
inflation surveyor for 29 years saw prices more than double in
1987. “It’s not like the olden days.”  
 Mexico’s consumer prices fell every month in the second
quarter, the longest period of deflation since at least 1973,
easing average annual consumer price increases this year to the
slowest since 2007. Government bonds are rallying as the
readings cement economists’ expectations that central bank
policy makers can keep interest rates at a record low to
stimulate economic growth without fanning inflation.  
 Mexico’s benchmark 10 percent peso-denominated bonds due in
2024 rose the past two months, pushing yields below 7 percent on
July 15 for the first time. The yield was little changed from
yesterday at 6.93 percent as of 4 p.m. New York time.  
 Yields on Mexico’s peso-denominated bonds due in 2036 and
2038 also will drop below 7 percent, said  Alberto Bernal , the
head of fixed-income research at Bulltick Capital Markets, the
Miami-based brokerage focused on Latin America. The bonds due in
2036 yielded 7.34 percent and the 2038 bonds yielded 7.44
percent in trading today.  
 ‘Long Exposure’  
 “The market consensus remains too bearish on inflation,”
said Bernal, who forecasts prices will rise 4.1 percent this
year. “I would definitely not get out of long exposure in
Mexico right now; I wouldn’t even think about it.”  
 Mexico economists estimate that the annual inflation rate
will rise to 4.66 percent at the end of 2010, according to a
monthly central bank survey.  
 While consumer prices increased in the first half of July,
the 0.15 percent 15-day inflation reading lagged behind
analysts’ expectations for a 0.25 percent increase, according to
the  median estimate  of 12 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 The rise in fruit and vegetable prices was evident this
month at  Wal-Mart de Mexico SAB ’s Superama grocery store in the
capital’s Lindavista neighborhood, according to the inflation
surveyor Garcia. White onions rose to 12.9 pesos a kilo in the
second week of the month, from 10.5 pesos the week before, she
said.  
 Core Inflation  
 Tortillas are the biggest food component in Mexico’s
inflation index. The cornmeal-based flatbread sells for an
average of 8.69 pesos per kilogram in Mexico City, down from
8.70 pesos in May, according to Economy Ministry  data .  
 Core prices, which exclude food and energy, are likely to
keep inflation in check, even as perishable fruits and vegetable
prices bottomed out and began to rise again this month, said
 Jimena Zuniga , an economist at Barclays Capital in New York.  
 Banco de Mexico’s board maintained its inflation and
economic growth forecasts for this year and next in a  report 
released today. It still predicts year-end inflation of 4.75
percent to 5.25 percent.  
 Central bank Deputy Governor  Manuel Sanchez  said June 29 in
Mexico City that the country is headed toward 3 percent
inflation by 2011, which would put Mexico in line with its
target for the first time since May 2006.  
 Rate Outlook  
 The central bank may even reduce its benchmark lending
rate, which has been at a record-low 4.5 percent for more than a
year, according to  Enrique Solorzano , who manages 161 billion
pesos at  ING Groep NV’s  Mexican pension fund, the  best performer 
in the country during the past three years, according to the
website of Mexico’s pension fund regulator, Consar.  
 The central bank may shave as much as 0.5 percentage point
off the overnight rate by year-end, Solorzano said, according to
a July 5 interview with Bloomberg News in Mexico City.  
 The outlook for rates depends on the strength of the peso
and the economy in the U.S., which buys about 80 percent of
Mexico’s exports, said Luis de la Calle, the Mexican economist
who helped negotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement. A
peso rally would force the bank to lower rates this year because
it would staunch exports by making them more expensive in dollar
terms, he said.  
 “They’d get nervous and would lower the interest rate,”
said De La Calle, who is now a partner at Mexico City-based
business adviser De la Calle, Madrazo, Mancera SC.  
 Economic Recovery  
 Economists have raised forecasts for Mexican growth on
speculation the nation’s manufacturers will benefit from revived
U.S. demand for goods from refrigerators to cars, boosting
Mexican employment, incomes and consumption. Mexico’s gross
domestic product will expand 4.4 percent this year, up from a
3.3 percent projection in January, as it recovers from the
deepest recession since 1932, according to the average estimate
of economists in a Banco de Mexico survey published July 1.  
 Carstens has no reason to cut interest rates, said  Fernando Alvarez Toca , chief executive officer of Banco Compartamos SA,
the Mexican bank that lends to low-income consumers.  
 “Mexico is already seeing signs of a recovery,” Alvarez
Toca said.  
 By keeping rates on hold, the bank is closing in on its
inflation target while helping the economy rebound, according to
 Paulo Leme , chief Latin America economist at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., speaking from Miami.  
 “Some observers derogatorily labeled Carstens a dove,”
Leme said. “He has the right neutral stance. In terms of
monetary policy, you always have to be ahead of the curve.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan J. Levin  in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Mexico's central bank governor Agustin Carstens. Photographer: Susana Gonzalez/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
