-- Emerging-Market Stocks Advance as Commodities Rise, Fed Sigals Low Rates
-- Michael Patterson
-- 2010-07-29T21:40:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/most-emerging-market-stocks-advance-on-china-s-economic-growth-projection.html

          
          
             Emerging-market stocks climbed for
an eighth day and government borrowing costs fell as concern
eased that the global economy is slowing, and rising commodities
boosted the profit outlook for producers.  
 The MSCI Emerging Markets Index  advanced 0.3 percent to
993.84 by 5 p.m. in New York, extending the longest stretch of
gains in five weeks. The extra yield on developing-nation debt
over U.S. Treasuries dropped two basis points to 2.80 percentage
points, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ’s EMBI+ Index.  
 Europe’s confidence in its economy rose to the highest in
more than two years in July, German unemployment declined for a
13th month and U.S. initial jobless claims fell last week,
reports today showed. Brazil’s central bank said the economy is
growing at a “sustainable” level as inflation slows. Energy
shares led gains in the MSCI index on a rally in oil and
earnings from  Exxon Mobil Corp.  that topped analysts’ estimates.  
 “Not only are companies reporting better profit figures on
the back of cost-cutting, but also increased revenue,” said
 Manoj Ladwa , a senior trader at Monecor London Ltd. “We’re
looking at developing economies” to lead growth, he said.  
 Brazil’s  Bovespa index  climbed 0.2 percent, rising for a
ninth day in the longest winning streak since August 2003.  
 Natura Cosmeticos SA , Brazil’s biggest cosmetics maker,
rose to a record after Banco BTG Pactual SA raised its share-
price forecast.  
 China’s Shanghai Composite Index gained 0.6 percent as
cement makers rallied on an increased recommendation from Citic
Securities Co. India’s  Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index 
increased 0.2 percent, while benchmark indexes in Indonesia and
Turkey climbed to record highs.  
 Ukraine IMF Loan  
 The Ukrainian Equities Index  jumped 3.5 percent, heading
for the biggest gain in three weeks. The International Monetary
Fund approved a $15.2 billion loan to the country, which raised
natural gas prices and agreed to trim its budget deficit to
qualify for the funds.  
 The Czech koruna, this month’s best-performing developing-
nation currency against the euro, fell from the strongest level
in more than 20 months. The koruna weakened 0.4 percent on
speculation the central bank may try to slow the currency’s
advance to protect exports.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        