-- Mouth-to-Mouth May Not Save More Lives During CPR, Two Studies Conclude
-- Arielle Fridson
-- 2010-07-28T21:06:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/mouth-to-mouth-may-not-save-more-lives-during-cpr-two-studies-conclude.html

          
          
             Hollywood heroics aside, mouth-to-
mouth resuscitation does nothing to improve the outcome of  CPR ,
two studies showed. It doesn’t provide any benefit over the
chest-pumping procedure, U.S. and Swedish scientists said.  
 In the research, there was no significant difference in
survival for patients who received just chest-compression CPR
from bystanders after heart stoppages compared with those who
got both that treatment and mouth-to-mouth breathing, according
to two papers published today in the  New England Journal of
Medicine .  
 While cardiopulmonary resuscitation can double or even
triple a patient’s rate of survival, two-thirds of people in
cardiac arrest outside a hospital don’t receive CPR, according
to the  American Heart Association . Bystanders might refrain from
acting because they can’t identify cardiac arrest, are afraid of
hurting the person, or are averse to mouth-to mouth contact,
said  Thomas D. Rea , an associate professor of medicine at the
 University of Washington  in Seattle.  
 “Eliminating mouth-to-mouth from CPR may make a layperson
less reticent to act and if they act, they can save a life,”
said  Rea , the lead author of the U.S. study. “Chest compression
alone is simpler and intuitively easier.”  
 The U.S. researchers considered 1,941 people in cardiac
arrest who needed bystanders to perform CPR until an ambulance
arrived. The scientists reported finding no significant
difference between the 981 patients who received chest
compression alone and the 960 who received both that procedure
and mouth-to-mouth breathing.  
 Survival Rates  
 The first group survived to hospital discharge at a rate of
12.5 percent and the second had an 11 percent survival rate, the
scientists wrote. The trials were carried out in two counties in
Washington state and in London in 2009. The  Laerdal Foundation
for Acute Medicine , based in Stavanger, Norway, funded the
research.  
 For the other study, Swedish researchers collected data on
1,276 patients from 2005 to 2009. Of the 620 patients who
received chest pumping only, the rate of 30-day survival was 8.7
percent. Of the 656 patients who received both chest pumping and
mouth-to-mouth breathing, 7 percent survived the 30-day period.
The study was funded by the  Swedish Heart-Lung Foundation , based
in Stockholm.  
 Emergency medical services  each year treat about 300,000
people in the U.S., according to the Dallas-based  heart
association . These patients have a less than 8 percent chance of
survival. Sudden cardiac arrest is the loss of heart function,
breathing and consciousness, according to the  Mayo Clinic , based
in Rochester, Minnesota. It can be caused by diverse conditions,
including heart attack, drowning, choking, and electrocution, or
it can happen without any known cause, according to the  heart
association .  
 CPR Guidelines  
 The group, in  guidelines  published jointly with the
Antwerp, Belgium-based  International Liaison Committee on
Resuscitation , has recommended hands-only CPR since April 2008,
said Junaid Khan, president of the association’s East Bay
Division and a cardiothoracic surgeon at Alta Bates Summit
Medical Center in Oakland.  
 “These two studies are the first randomized control trial
in this area, which constitutes the highest level of evidence
that physicians trust,” Khan said in a telephone interview.
“This will enable the strongest level of recommendation.”  
 Association officials now are “probably going to modify
their statements in a more forceful way based on this study and
other similar ones,” most likely by the end of this year, said
 Myron L. Weisfeldt , director of the Department of Medicine at
John Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore.  
 Weisfeldt wrote an editorial on CPR, urging more research,
that was published in the medical journal along with the
studies.  
 Rescue Training  
 While the studies may cause instructors to place less
emphasis on mouth-to-mouth techniques, it would be a mistake to
eliminate them from  CPR courses , Weisfeldt wrote in the
editorial. The technique is effective against  respiratory
failure , the most common cause of cardiac arrest in children, he
wrote. Each year, about 5,800 children under 18 suffer cardiac
arrest in the U.S., according to the heart association.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Arielle Fridson in New York at 
 afridson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     CPR is performed on a dummy. Source: American Heart Association  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
