-- Toyota, Nissan May Benefit From U.K. $67 Million Green Car Incentive Plan
-- Alex Morales
-- 2010-07-28T12:34:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/toyota-nissan-may-benefit-from-u-k-67-million-green-car-incentive-plan.html

          
          
             The U.K. government announced 43
million pounds ($67 million) of grants for low-carbon vehicles,
potentially boosting demand for cars made by Japanese
manufacturers  Nissan Motor Co. ,  Mitsubishi Motors Corp . and
 Toyota Motor Corp .  
 Under the program, car buyers from January will receive a
grant worth 25 percent of the value of the vehicle, up to a
maximum of 5,000 pounds, the Department for Transport said today
in a  statement . A department spokesman said that a list of
eligible models hasn’t been drawn up because criteria for the
payment haven’t been fully decided.  
 “This is a vote of confidence from both the government and
the car manufacturers which will show car buyers there is
support for these vehicles,” Faye Sunderland, editor of
TheGreenCarWebsite.co.uk., said in a telephone interview from
Stockport, northern England. “It’s essential to have these
grants because electric cars are quite pricey.”  
 The U.K. is trying to slash the country’s carbon emissions
by 34 percent in the three decades through 2020 by boosting
renewable electricity production, insulating homes and
encouraging carmakers to produce low-carbon vehicles in Britain.
Nissan in March said it will begin making its Leaf electric car
in Sunderland, England, in early 2013.  
 “We are sending a clear signal that Britain is open for
business and that we are committed to greening our economy,”
Transport Secretary Philip Hammond said in the statement. “This
will ensure that the U.K. is a world leader in low emission
vehicles.”  
 Nissan’s Leaf, Mitsubishi’s i-Miev and Toyota’s planned
plug-in version of its Prius hybrid are all models that are
likely to benefit, Sunderland said. Two models by Mitsubishi
affiliates PSA Peugeot Citroen, the Peugeot iOn and the Citroen
C-Zero will also likely be covered, she said.  
 “Take-up of the grants will depend on the models that come
through and what the availability is,” Sunderland said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        