-- Pakistan May Refrain From Increasing Main Interest Rate as Inflation Cools
-- Farhan Sharif
-- 2010-07-28T19:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/pakistan-may-refrain-from-increasing-main-interest-rate-as-inflation-cools.html

          
          
             Pakistan’s central bank may keep its
benchmark interest rate unchanged for the fourth straight
meeting this year as slowing  inflation  reduces the need to raise
borrowing costs.  
 The State Bank of Pakistan will maintain its discount rate
at 12.5 percent, according to all 16 economists and analysts in
a Bloomberg News survey. The central bank is due to announce its
monetary policy decision at 5 p.m. tomorrow.  
 Pakistan, which has one of the world’s highest benchmark
interest rates, has refrained from joining Asian economies from
India to Malaysia in raising borrowing costs even as the region
rebounds from last year’s global slump. Inflation slowed in June
for a second straight month to 12.69 percent after fuel prices
declined, giving policy makers room to focus on supporting an
economy hurt by terrorism.  
 “The easing inflation in the last two months may give
reasons to delay the tightening,” said  Sayem Ali , an economist
at Standard Chartered Pakistan Ltd. in Karachi. “It will be a
very difficult decision, as the indicators suggest the need to
raise rates, while for growth we need an easing.”  
 The World Bank said last month South Asian economies
including Pakistan need to raise borrowing costs to contain
inflation and cut their budget deficits to endure “future
shocks” to global growth.  
 Three Cuts  
 Pakistan Prime Minister  Syed Yousuf Raza Gilani ’s
government has said the country needs low borrowing costs and
foreign aid to support growth and create jobs. At least 650
people have been killed in 25 major terrorist attacks nationwide
this year as the military fights Taliban militants in the
northwest.  
 The central bank has kept the benchmark interest rate
unchanged this year after cutting it three times in 2009 by a
cumulative 2.5 percentage points.  
 On July 21, Pakistan’s central bank rejected all bids for
the sale of investment bonds against offers of 19.1 billion
rupees. This indicates the central bank may keep the key rate
unchanged, Standard Chartered’s Ali said.  
 Higher power tariffs in the country may put pressure on
inflation in the coming months. Pakistan raised power rates by
7.6 percent on July 1, an increase that took effect
retrospectively in April, to meet a condition set by the
International Monetary Fund for an $11.3 billion bailout.  
 “The easing in inflation seems temporary, as the power
tariff rise and food prices may increase the pace of price
gains,” said  Asad Farid , an economist at AKD Securities Ltd. in
Karachi. “There will be pressure on the central bank to
increase rates later, but the current easing reduces the
possibility of change in this review.”  
 Higher costs may hurt companies including  Engro Corp. ,
which has taken more loans to expand its food and power
businesses, and D.G. Khan Cement Co., which has borrowed more to
increase its production capacity.  
 Food prices may increase in August as demand rises during
the Muslim holy month of Ramadan starting next month.  
 The South Asian economy is forecast to grow 4.5 percent
during the year that started July 1, the fastest pace in three
years.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Farhan Sharif  in Karachi, Pakistan at 
 Fsharif2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        