-- Pakistan's Worst Air Crash Kills 152 on Airbus A321
-- James Rupert
-- 2010-07-28T13:25:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/pakistani-plane-crashes-in-islamabad-rainstorm-with-at-least-150-on-board.html

          
          
             An Airbus SAS jetliner crashed into
a rain-soaked hillside at Islamabad, killing all 152 aboard in
the deadliest air disaster within Pakistan.  
 Airblue  flight ED202 left Karachi at 7:30 a.m. for  Benazir
Bhutto International Airport , which serves Islamabad and the
adjacent city of Rawalpindi, said Raheel Ahmed, a spokesman for
the privately held Karachi-based carrier. There were 146
passengers and six crew members on board when the plane went
down in Pakistan’s first crash in four years.  
 Monsoon rains at Islamabad, the capital, brought low clouds
that covered the ridges of the heavily wooded Margalla Hills, at
the city’s edge. The A321 airliner hit a rocky ridge at 9:45
a.m. and tumbled into a ravine about 6 kilometers (3.5 miles)
from the offices of President  Asif Ali Zardari .  
 The crash site, near the Faisal Mosque, Pakistan’s largest,
is accessible only by narrow hiking trails and rescuers explored
the woods for several hours to determine that no one aboard had
survived. The airline’s black box was found in the hills this
evening, GEO television reported, without saying where it got
the information.  
 Pakistan’s last deadliest air accident killed 54 people in
1989, when a Fokker F-27 of state-owned  Pakistan International
Airlines  crashed in the Karakoram Mountains, according to a
 database  of the Aviation Safety Network website. A PIA Airbus
A300 crashed in Nepal in 1992, killing all 167 aboard, the
database shows.  
 ‘Difficult Area’  
 The Margalla Hills rise alongside Islamabad’s most elite
neighborhoods, about 10 kilometers from Bhutto International
Airport in Rawalpindi. “The area is very difficult to get to by
car or by foot,” Muhammad Rashid, a spokesman for the Edhi
Rescue Service, said by phone from Islamabad.  
 The aircraft had no technical fault, Airblue’s Ahmed told
reporters in Karachi. “The weather was bad but not below
parameters,” he said. The pilot had 35 years and 25,000 flying
hours of experience, he said.  
 Airblue, Pakistan’s second-biggest carrier by market share,
began flying in 2004, after private airlines were given licenses
to compete against  Pakistan International Airline Corp. , the
national flag carrier. Its owners include its chairman, Tariq
Chaudhry, and CEO  Shahid Khaqan Abbasi , a former Pakistan
Airline chief executive. Ahmed declined to say whether others
own shares.  
 Terrorism is unlikely to have caused the crash, said Amir
Siddique, a spokesman for the National Disaster Management
Authority. A six-member committee will investigate the crash,
Parvez George, a spokesman for the Civil Aviation Authority said
from Karachi.  
 Prime Minister  Syed Yousuf Raza Gilani  and members of his
cabinet took an aerial tour of the crash site and declared a
national day of mourning tomorrow.  
 Aircraft Lease  
 The aircraft was built in 2000 and was leased to Airblue in
2006, according to an e-mailed  statement  from Toulouse, France-
based Airbus. It had made about 13,500 flights and was fitted
with engines made by International Aero Engines, a venture
backed by United Technology Corp.’s Pratt & Whitney, Rolls-Royce
Group Plc, Japanese Aero Engine Corp. and MTU Aero Engines
Holding AG.  
 Pakistan last suffered a fatal air crash in July 2006 when
a Pakistan International Airlines Fokker F-27 suffered engine
problems and struck a power line after taking off from Multan,
in Punjab province, according to the Aviation Safety Network
Website. The crash killed 45 people, it said.  
 The country has a category 1 safety rating from the U.S.’s
 Federal Aviation Administration , meaning it meets international
standards.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Khurrum Anis in Karachi at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net ;
 James Rupert  in New Delhi at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       A Pakistani rescue helicopter flies over wreckage  
                       
                         
                           Aamir Qureshi/AFP/Getty Images 
                         
                         A Pakistani rescue helicopter flies over smoke and wreckage of a crashed passenger plane in the Margalla Hills on the outskirts of Islamabad. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A Pakistani rescue helicopter flies over smoke and wreckage of a crashed passenger plane in the Margalla Hills on the outskirts of Islamabad. Photographer: Aamir Qureshi/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
