-- Panasonic Said to Plan Sanyo, Electric Works Buyout
-- Maki Shiraki
-- 2010-07-29T05:45:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/panasonic-said-to-buy-rest-of-sanyo-electric-panasonic-electric-works.html

          
          
             Panasonic Corp. , the world’s largest
maker of rechargeable batteries, will offer to buy full control
of  Sanyo Electric Co.  and  Panasonic Electric Works Co. , three
people familiar with the matter said. Panasonic may sell $5.7
billion of new shares to finance the acquisitions, Reuters said.  
 Sanyo jumped as much as 26 percent in Tokyo trading after
the Nikkei newspaper reported Osaka-based Panasonic may offer
about 900 billion yen ($10 billion). That would be a premium of
26 percent over the latest closing price.  
 Full control of the two units would build on President
 Fumio Ohtsubo ’s plans to boost sales of electric car batteries
and solar panels. The company is diversifying away from
televisions and mobile phones, where it has lost market share to
 Samsung Electronics Co.  Panasonic fell the most in more than a
year in Tokyo trading on concern the cost of the purchase may
strain a company reeling from two years of losses.  
 “Panasonic faces fierce competition from Samsung and Sony
in consumer electronics,”  Yuji Fujimori , a Tokyo-based analyst
at Barclays Capital. “Its rivals are not as competitive in the
energy-related products and household electrics systems that
Panasonic aims to strengthen.”  
 The companies will make an announcement today, the people
said, asking not to be identified before a public disclosure.  
 Sanyo Shares Surge  
 Sanyo added 31 yen to 149 yen on the Tokyo Stock Exchange
as of the 2:17 p.m., while Panasonic, the world’s largest maker
of plasma TVs, declined 8.6 percent to 1,067 yen.  Panasonic
Electric Works  shares were untraded as bids to buy the stock
outnumbered offers to sell.  
 The combined acquisitions would be the largest in Japan
this year, according to Bloomberg data. Panasonic said it
currently owns 50.2 percent of Sanyo and 52.1 percent of
Panasonic Electric Works. At yesterday’s closing prices, the
shares that Panasonic does not own in the two companies are
worth a combined 712 billion yen.  
 Panasonic isn’t the source of the information for the
report, Panasonic said in a statement today. Sanyo and Panasonic
Electrics Works issued similar comments.  
 The Nikkei reported  Panasonic  plans to conduct a tender
offer or stock swap for the remaining shares. Panasonic may
raise up to 500 billion yen from a sale of shares, Reuters
reported, citing two people familiar with the matter. The filing
for the sale may be made today, the report said.  
 Rechargeable Batteries  
 Sanyo was the largest maker of rechargeable batteries in
the year ended March 2009, followed by Sony, South Korea’s
 Samsung SDI Co. , Panasonic, China’s BYD Co. and LG Chem Ltd.,
according to estimates at Japan Economic Center Co. Panasonic
and Sanyo accounted for a combined 43 percent of the market,
according the Tokyo-based researcher.  
 Panasonic Electric Works, the unit that makes lighting
systems, electrical wiring fittings such as wall sockets and
electronic materials used in chips, became an affiliate in 1935
and split as a separate entity in 1945.  
 Panasonic  plans to sell off or shut Sanyo’s unprofitable
businesses such as home appliances to focus on rechargeable
batteries and solar panels, according to the report. Sanyo and
Panasonic’s brand name may be united, it said.  
 In 2008, Panasonic agreed to buy a controlling stake in
Sanyo from  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , Daiwa Securities Group Inc.
and Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. Panasonic completed its
offer for Sanyo in December last year after clearance from
antitrust regulators in the U.S., Europe, Japan and China.  
 Panasonic, Japan’s biggest maker of home appliances, paid
146 billion yen for a majority stake in the lighting unit in a
tender offer in 2003. Panasonic had 1.1 trillion yen in cash or
near cash on its balance sheet at the end of March. The company
posted a fourth quarter loss of 88.9 billion yen.  
 “Making them wholly owned can cut off redundancies of
operations and speed up management decisions,” said  Yasuo Nakane , a Deutsche Bank AG analyst based in Tokyo. “This
decision came out earlier than people anticipated because
expectations were that this would happen next year.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mariko Yasu  in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Fumio Ohtsubo, president of Panasonic Corp. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
