-- Pao de Acucar Falls Most in Two Months on Second-Quarter Profit Decline
-- Helder Marinho
-- 2010-07-28T14:22:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/pao-de-acucar-second-quarter-profit-plunges-53-to-35-3-million-on-taxes.html

          
          
             Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao
Grupo Pao de Acucar , Brazil’s largest retailer, sank the most in
more than two months after posting a 53 percent decline in
second-quarter profit after a one-off tax payment.  
 Net income fell to 62.3 million reais ($35.3 million) from
131.7 million reais a year earlier, the Sao Paulo-based company
 said  today in a regulatory filing. The results include the Ponto
Frio retail chain, which Pao de Acucar agreed to buy in June
2009.  
 The results were “disappointing,” wrote Banco BTG Pactual
analysts Fabio Moneiro and  Thiago Duarte  in a note to clients,
citing lower profit margins and higher financial expenses.  
 The stock fell 4.4 percent to 61.05 reais at 10:13 a.m. New
York time. Earlier it dropped 4.7 percent, its biggest decline
since May 6. The Bovespa stock index declined 0.3 percent,
halting a seven-day advance as an unexpected drop in durable
goods orders in the U.S., Brazil’s second-biggest trading
partner, overshadowed a rally in bank stocks.  
 Pao de Acucar’s profit was lowered by a tax installment of
64.5 million reais, the company said.  Net sales  jumped 39
percent to 6.98 billion reais after customers bought more
beverages, household appliances and televisions for the World
Cup soccer tournament.  
 The outlook for the second half of this year “could be
clouded by a possible slowdown in durable goods sales,”  David Belaunde , an analyst at Barclays Plc in New York, wrote in a
July 14 report. Pao de Acucar “retains its mid-term appeal as
share gains in both food and electronics retail should deliver a
superior top-line profile and -- in electronics in particular --
higher return on invested capital.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Laura Price  in London at 
 lprice3@bloomberg.net ;
 Helder Marinho  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        