-- Paris Show Fetes Ronis With Photos of Rustic Nude, Workers
-- Jorg von Uthmann
-- 2010-07-28T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/paris-show-fetes-ronis-with-photos-of-rustic-nude-angry-workers-review.html

          
          
             All his life, Willy Ronis was
overshadowed by his more famous contemporaries  Robert Doisneau 
and  Henri Cartier-Bresson . Only in 2005, at the ripe age of 95,
could he relish an undisputed triumph: His solo show at City
Hall in Paris drew more than 500,000 visitors.  
 The  exhibition  at the Monnaie de Paris was supposed to
celebrate the photographer’s 100th birthday. He missed it by a
few months: Ronis died on Sept. 11, 2009, at age 99.  
 Still, this is an attractive, though by no means
definitive show. The French state, to which Ronis donated his
archives more than 20 years ago, was slow to inventory the
gift. The 150 images on display skim the surface of his work.  
 The subtitle “Poetics of Engagement” refers to two of
Ronis’s favorite subjects: He never tired of exploring the
charms of Paris, his birthplace, and he never hid his
sympathies for the Communist cause.  
 Ronisen (his real name) was born into a Jewish family that
had emigrated from Czarist Russia. He dreamed of becoming a
pianist and composer before the economic crisis of the 1930s
persuaded him to play it safe and work in his father’s photo
shop.  
 It was a bread-and-butter job that “bored me stiff for
four years,” as he confided to an interviewer shortly before
his death (Le Monde, July 28, 2009), and he left it as soon as
he could. After his father’s death in 1936, he became a
freelance photographer.  
 Baguette Boy  
 Like Doisneau and Izis (Israelis Bidermanas), another
immigrant from Eastern Europe, Ronis had an eye for the
“little people” and their simple pleasures -- villagers
playing the national game of “boules,” lovers kissing in a
cafe or a beaming boy carrying a baguette bigger than himself.  
 Quite a few of his pictures were shot in southern France
where he survived during the Occupation and often returned
after the war. One of his best-known photos shows Marie-Anne,
his bare-bottomed wife, washing up in a stone-floored bathroom:
You can almost smell the Provencal fragrances pouring in
through the open window.  
 The 1930s were a period of sometimes violent tensions
between the haves and have-nots in France. Ronis left no doubt
on which side he stood.  
 He faithfully recorded the rallies of the Front Populaire,
the alliance of Socialists and Communists; the strikes at
Citroen and Renault, the car factories; and the social unrest
in the mines of Saint-Etienne.  
 Communist Stance  
 At the height of the Cold War, he twice traveled to
Communist East Germany, only to discover well-stacked
libraries, assiduous students and happy children.  
 In New York, the center of the capitalist world, his
preferred subjects were the homeless and run-down
neighborhoods. When he felt that his pictures for Life and Time
were used for propaganda purposes against the French workers’
movement, he broke off business contacts with U.S. magazines.  
 His political views didn’t prevent him from lovingly
capturing the atmosphere in London pubs or the delicate
contrasts between light and shade in Venice.  
 La Monnaie de Paris is at 11 Quai de Conti. The show runs
through Aug. 22. Information:  http://www.monnaiedeparis.fr  or
+33-1-4046-5666.  
 ( Jorg von Uthmann  is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  
 To contact the writer on the story:
 Jorg von Uthmann  in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       "Provencal Nude"  
                       
                         
                           Monnaie de Paris via Bloomberg 
                         
                         "Provencal Nude" (Marie-Anne Ronis), by Willy Ronis. The photo is part of the show "Willy Ronis -- A Poetics of Engagement" which runs at La Monnaie de Paris through Aug. 22. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     "Provencal Nude" (Marie-Anne Ronis), by Willy Ronis. The photo is part of the show "Willy Ronis -- A Poetics of Engagement" which runs at La Monnaie de Paris through Aug. 22. Source: Monnaie de Paris via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       "Self Portrait"  
                       
                         
                           Monnaie de Paris via Bloomberg 
                         
                         "Self Portrait" by Willy Ronis. The photo is part of the show "Willy Ronis -- A Poetics of Engagement" which runs at La Monnaie de Paris through Aug. 22. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     "Self Portrait" by Willy Ronis. The photo is part of the show "Willy Ronis -- A Poetics of Engagement" which runs at La Monnaie de Paris through Aug. 22. Source: Monnaie de Paris via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       "Worker at the Lorraine-Escaut Factory"  
                       
                         
                           Monnaie de Paris via Bloomberg 
                         
                         "Worker at the Lorraine-Escaut Factory" by Willy Ronis. The work is part of the show "Willy Ronis -- A Poetics of Engagement" which runs at La Monnaie de Paris through Aug. 22. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     "Worker at the Lorraine-Escaut Factory" by Willy Ronis. The work is part of the show "Willy Ronis -- A Poetics of Engagement" which runs at La Monnaie de Paris through Aug. 22. Source: Monnaie de Paris via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Street Musician  
                       
                         
                           Monnaie de Paris via Bloomberg 
                         
                         A street musician on Boulevard Richard-Lenoir, Paris, 1946 by Willy Ronis. The photo is from the show "Willy Ronis -- A Poetics of Engagement" which runs at La Monnaie de Paris through Aug. 22. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A street musician on Boulevard Richard-Lenoir, Paris, 1946 by Willy Ronis. The photo is from the show "Willy Ronis -- A Poetics of Engagement" which runs at La Monnaie de Paris through Aug. 22. Source: Monnaie de Paris via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
