-- Paul Greenwood, WG Trading Hedge Fund Manager, Pleads Guilty to Fraud
-- Patricia Hurtado
-- 2010-07-28T20:49:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/paul-greenwood-wg-trading-hedge-fund-manager-to-plead-guilty-to-fraud.html

          
          
             Hedge fund manager  Paul Greenwood ,
the general partner of WG Trading Co., pleaded guilty to six
charges including conspiracy and securities fraud and is
cooperating with the U.S. against co-defendant  Steven Walsh .  
 Greenwood and Walsh, his fellow manager of WG Trading and
WG Investors, were indicted last July on charges that they
conspired to defraud investors of $554 million. The U.S. said
the scheme stretched from 1996 until their arrest in February
2009. A prosecutor said today that Greenwood will testify
against Walsh at trial.  
 Greenwood said today he entered into the conspiracy with
Walsh and that the two claimed they had an “index arbitrage
fund” which promised institutional investors high returns.
Greenwood said he and Walsh took out money for their own
personal use, which a federal prosecutor said cost investors
between $800 million and $900 million.  
 “You treated these investments as your own personal bank
accounts?” U.S. District Judge  Miriam Cedarbaum  in Manhattan
asked Greenwood today during his plea hearing.  
 “Correct,” said Greenwood, who said he and Walsh often
paid investors back using funds from other investors.  
 “So this was a Ponzi scheme?” Cedarbaum asked.  
 “Sort of,” said Greenwood who told the judge that he took
out “in excess of $75 million,” spending the money on “a
house, a horse farm and antiques.”  
 Cooperating Witness  
 Assistant U.S. Attorney John O’Donnell in Manhattan said in
court that Greenwood was cooperating with the U.S. and would be
a witness against Walsh.  
 Walsh has pleaded not guilty to the charges. Cedarbaum has
scheduled a hearing in the case for July 30. No trial date has
been set.  
 Cedarbaum said Greenwood may face as long as 85 years in
prison and hundreds of millions of dollars in fines. She set a
Dec. 1 sentencing date.  
 According to the plea agreement, released by prosecutors
after today’s proceeding, Greenwood will have to forfeit at
least $331 million to the government, representing the money he
and Walsh allegedly obtained as a result of their securities and
wire fraud.  
 Greenwood also agreed to pay the U.S. an $83.5 million
judgment, the proceeds he “personally obtained” as a result of
the fraud.  
 Homes, Cars, Horses  
 If Greenwood continues to cooperate with the government and
testifies at Walsh’s trial, the U.S. will write a letter to the
judge describing his assistance, prosecutors said.  
 “Steven Walsh looks forward to his day in court,” his
lawyer,  Glenn Colton , said today in a telephone interview after
Greenwood’s plea.  
 The two defendants were arrested in February 2009 and
accused of using the company as a “personal piggy bank” to buy
homes, cars, horses and collectible Steiff teddy bears. The U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission sued the men, and described
WG Trading Investors as an unregistered investment vehicle.  
 The accused were minority owners of the New York Islanders
professional hockey team in the 1990s. In 1984, Greenwood bought
Old Salem Farm, a 54-acre riding school and horse farm, from
actor  Paul Newman  and his wife,  Joanne Woodward . Greenwood later
sold the farm.  
 WG Trading had offices in Greenwich, Connecticut; Jersey
City, New Jersey; and North Hills, New York.  
 ‘Public Pension Funds’  
 Greenwood and Walsh defrauded “large institutional
investors, including several public pension funds and
educational institutions and endowments,” the SEC said in its
2009 civil complaint.  
 The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission also sued
Greenwood and Walsh, saying they misappropriated $553 million of
$1.3 billion in funds from commodity pool investors. The two
used money from new participants to cover prior losses and
personal expenses, the CFTC said in the complaint filed in
federal court in Manhattan.  
 Greenwood told Cedarbaum today that he has surrendered his
assets to the government, saying they would be auctioned off.  
 “Did you have any doubt that what you were doing was a
crime?” Cedarbaum asked.  
 “No,” said Greenwood who remains free on bond. He
declined to comment after court.  
 “Mr. Greenwood has decided to resolve this case with the
government and his is cooperating with the U.S. in this case,”
 Fred Hafetz , his lawyer, said after court.  
 The case is U.S. v. Greenwood, 09-cr-722, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in Manhattan Federal Courthouse at 
9245 or  pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        