-- Persian Gulf Sukuk Yield Premium Widens on Fourth Default: Islamic Finance
-- Khalid Qayum
-- 2010-07-28T09:51:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/persian-gulf-sukuk-yield-premium-widens-on-fourth-default-islamic-finance.html

          
          
             Yields on Islamic bonds from the
Persian Gulf are climbing even as rates on conventional debt
decline, after four defaults in the past 16 months prompted
investors to demand higher returns.  
 The average yield on sukuk sold by Gulf Cooperation Council
issuers rose 38 basis points to 6.99 percent yesterday from this
year’s low on April 15, according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai GCC
US Dollar Sukuk Index . The average yield on the  HSBC/NASDAQ
Dubai GCC Conventional US Bond Index , made up of notes that
don’t comply with Muslim tenets from Qatar to Saudi Arabia, fell
24 basis points in the same period to 5.35 percent. The spread
between the two has widened 62 basis points to 164.  
 “Investors are demanding more premiums from sukuk issuers
as they see a new wave of massive refinancing or default
pressure next year,” from the Gulf region,  Luis Costa , a
London-based emerging-markets strategist at  Citigroup Inc.,  said
yesterday. “It’s a process that’s feeding on itself.”  
 International Investment Group KSCC , an Islamic financial
company based in Safat, Kuwait, said on July 26 it was unable to
pay $152.5 million to bondholders who demanded immediate
repayment after it defaulted on a $200 million Islamic bond.
Persian Gulf companies have $28 billion of debt maturing in
2012, Moody’s Investors Service said in a report on June 14.
Dubai-based companies have $10.4 billion of obligations maturing
that same year, according to Moody’s.  
 Investors Nervous  
 Kuwait’s  Investment Dar Co. , owner of half of Aston Martin
Lagonda Ltd. was the first company from the region to default on
a $100 million sukuk in April last year, triggering concern
about restructuring laws for such securities.  National Central
Cooling Co.,  a United Arab Emirates-based refrigeration company,
said on May 27 it hasn’t made distribution payments on its 1.7
billion-dirham ($463 million) sukuk.  
 In April, Citicorp Trustee Co., trustee for a $650 million
Islamic bond sold by a unit of Saudi Arabia’s Saad Trading,
Contracting and Financial Services Co., said investors agreed to
dissolve the trust after the unit defaulted on the debt.  
 “There are many companies in the Islamic arena which are
still struggling and making investors nervous,”  Nish Popat , a
Hague-based senior investment manager at ING Investment
Management Europe, said in an interview on July 26. “The
increasing number of defaults and uncertainty over bondholders’
rights in the Islamic structure are making this market less
attractive.”  
 Yields Rise  
 ING Investment is the asset management unit of  ING Groep
NV , the Netherlands biggest financial-services company.  
 Dubai World, the state-owned company seeking to renegotiate
terms on $23.5 billion of liabilities, said on July 22 it
expects to complete the restructuring process in the “coming
months.” Property unit Nakheel PJSC, which held a separate
meeting with its lenders July 14, said a group of its creditors
negotiating on behalf of banks “unanimously supported” a
proposal on altering the terms on $10.5 billion of loans and
unpaid bills.  
 The yield on the Dubai Department of Finance’s 6.396
percent sukuk due in November 2014 fell six basis points to 7.31
percent at 1:43 p.m. in Dubai, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The difference over similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries
has widened to 581 basis points from 406 when they were sold
last October.  
 The difference in yield between the Dubai notes and the
Malaysian government’s 3.928 percent Islamic note due June 2015
has widened 42 basis points since May 31 to 424 basis points,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Slowing Sales  
 Sales of Islamic notes from companies in the Gulf have
slowed to $2.5 billion so far in 2010, down 24 percent from a
year earlier, and the lowest level since 2005, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Twenty-five companies from Malaysia raised 9.6
billion ringgit ($3 billion) from sukuk sales in the period,
according to the data.  
 “We foresee sustained growth for the second-half, given
issuers’ interest in tapping the market, both in historical
locations like Asia, especially Malaysia, and in other regions
newer to sukuk,” Standard & Poor’s Paris-based analyst  Mohamed Damak  wrote in a report today. “Many issuers around the world
may be willing to enter the market as more favorable conditions
materialize.”  
 Saudi Electricity Co ., the state-controlled power producer,
raised 7 billion riyals ($1.9 billion) issuing sukuk in May, at
95 basis points more than the three-month Saudi interbank
offered rate.  National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC , the U.A.E. lender
controlled by the Abu Dhabi Investment Council, sold 500 million
ringgit of Islamic bonds in Malaysia in June at a coupon rate of
4.75 percent.  
 ‘Bad News’  
 International Investment became in April the second Kuwaiti
company in a year to miss a sukuk payment after it failed to
distribute $3.35 million due on the debt on April 12, according
to a company statement. It sold the convertible notes maturing
in July 2012 at 1.5 percentage points more than the U.S. dollar
mid-swap rate. The five-year mid-swap rate was at 1.956 percent
yesterday.  
 “A default in any market is enough to keep investors
away,”  Muhammad Asad , who manages the equivalent of $210
million as chief investment officer at Al Meezan Investment
Management Ltd., said in an interview yesterday in Karachi.
“It’s definitely bad news.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Haris Anwar  in Dubai at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net 
 Khalid Qayum  in Singapore 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Cranes stand idle at The Dubai Waterfront building project by Nakheel PJSC. Photographer: Charles Crowell/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
