-- Philippine Property Stock Valuations May Rise on REITs, First Metro Says
-- Ian C. Sayson
-- 2010-07-28T00:49:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/philippine-property-stock-valuations-may-rise-on-reits-first-metro-says.html

          
          
             The Philippines’s plan to offer tax
breaks for real estate investment trusts may boost the valuation
of property stocks and offer a new avenue for fundraising,
according to the nation’s second-best performing fund manager.  
 The  Philippine Stock Exchange Property Index  has risen 20
percent this year on expectations record-low borrowing costs and
rising remittances will boost sales. The gauge is trading at
20.5 times reported earnings, almost twice the 11.5 times for
the benchmark Philippine Stock Exchange Index, the widest gap
between the two in 2 ½ years, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 “Property companies that turn to REITs should have higher
valuations,”  Francisco Sebastian , president at Manila-based
First Metro Investment Corp., said in an interview in Manila
yesterday. “Developers can grow earnings faster than before
because REITs open another opportunity to raise money to pursue
more projects and expand capital.”  
 Philippine developers rallied this year after the
government signed into law a measure giving tax breaks to REITs
to boost trading in the smallest among Asia Pacific’s 12 biggest
equity markets. Real estate companies including  Robinsons Land
Corp. , SM Prime Holdings Inc. and Ayala Land Inc. said yesterday
they’ve hired banks to advise on property trusts.  
 REITs allow companies to separate their property
development businesses from assets that generate rental income.
Senator  Edgardo Angara , who proposed the tax incentives for
REITs, said the Philippines has $3 billion worth of “high
grade” investment property assets that can be put into REITs.  
 ‘Massively Erode’  
 The proposal faces opposition. The government needs to
“tweak” its law on REITS because the tax breaks can
“massively erode” the nation’s revenue base, Finance Secretary
 Cesar Purisima  said in a speech in Manila yesterday. The
Philippines has to be “smarter” in corporate tax breaks, he
said.  
 Ayala Land,  the nation’s biggest property developer, is
targeting $300 million from selling shares in REITs, Chief
Financial Officer  Jaime Ysmael  said in an interview yesterday,
while  SM Prime Holdings Inc. , the largest shopping mall
operator, is seeking $500 million, Chief Financial Officer
 Jeffrey Lim  said.  
 “Investors banking on the passing and implementation of
the regulations on REITs soon may be disappointed as the
government said it wants to revisit the guidelines,” said  Rico Gomez , who helps manage about $1 billion at Manila-based Rizal
Commercial Banking Corp.  
 Robinsons Land , the second-biggest shopping mall operator,
may raise $300 million from a REIT, the Philippine Star reported
in May. President  Frederick Go  declined to comment on the size
of the sale yesterday. He said the company hired Citigroup Inc.
and DBS Group Holdings Ltd.  
 Macquarie Group Ltd. and CLSA Asia Pacific Markets are
advising SM Prime, the company said, while JPMorgan Chase & Co.
is representing Ayala Land, Ysmael said.  
 “There’s room for share prices to appreciate further” for
listed companies that turn assets into trusts, said Sebastian,
whose  Save & Learn Equity Fund  has gained 32 percent this year,
the second-best performing Philippine stock fund.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian C. Sayson  in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        