-- Philippine Bourse Names Suarez as CEO, Filling Slot Vacant for Five Months
-- Ian Sayson
-- 2010-07-28T08:21:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/philippine-bourse-names-suarez-as-ceo-filling-slot-vacant-for-five-months.html

          
          
             The Philippine Stock Exchange Inc.
named  Val Suarez  as president and chief executive officer of the
nation’s sole equities market operator, filling a position that
has been vacant for more than five months.  
 Suarez, 51, joined the exchange in January and is chief
operating officer and senior vice president. He’s also managing
partner of the Suarez and Reyes Law Offices in Makati City and
was previously chief representative at a Philippine unit of HSBC
Holdings Plc, according to the bourse’s annual report.  
 Suarez, is taking the helm as the exchange introduces
products including real estate investment trusts to draw
investors. The benchmark  Philippine Stock Exchange Index  has
risen 13 percent this year, the third-best performer among Asia
Pacific’s 12 biggest equities markets, and the average value of
trades has risen by 14 percent as borrowing costs stayed at a
record low and economic growth is forecast to accelerate.  
 “This is a very positive development,”  Ismael Cruz ,
a stockbroker and president of the Philippine Association of
Securities Brokers and Dealers Inc., said in an interview in
Manila today. “He has the right background and track record to
pursue and implement the vision and mission of the exchange.”  
 The position has been vacant since Feb. 15 when  Francis Lim , its longest-serving president, left for health reasons
related to his coronary artery treatment in 2006.  
 Smallest Market  
 While the average daily trade on the exchange has risen to
3.91 billion pesos ($85 million) this year from 3.43 billion
pesos, according to data from the bourse, the capitalization is
the lowest among the region’s 12 biggest markets.  
 Suarez’s challenges include “boosting the volume of
trades, increasing listings and expanding the market’s investor
base,” Lim said in an interview in Manila today. “Given his
background as a lawyer and investment banker, there is no reason
for him not to succeed.”  
 Cebu Air Inc., the second-largest Philippine airline,
delayed its 22.4 billion peso initial public offering earlier
planned in April because of the nation’s presidential elections
in May. The company hasn’t announced a new date for the sale.  
 As a lawyer, Suarez specialized in securities law and
helped arrange the initial share sales of a number of companies
including  Ayala Land Inc. , the nation’s biggest developer, as
well as Filinvest Land Inc., Megaworld Corp.,  SM Prime Holdings
Inc. , Aboitiz Equity Ventures Inc. and Petron Corp., the
Philippine exchange said in a statement today.  
 Suarez has law degrees from the Ateneo de Manila University
and Georgetown University.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian Sayson  in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        