-- U.S. Pilots Need More Flight Experience Under Measure
-- John Hughes
-- 2010-07-28T22:37:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/pilots-would-need-1-500-hours-of-experience-under-house-safety-legislation.html

          
          
             U.S. pilots would need 1,500 hours
of experience to be hired by airlines under legislation House
Democrats said Congress may approve in the next few days.  
 The requirement, six times higher than the current 250-hour
minimum, was sought by pilot unions and relatives of victims in
a February 2009 fatal air crash near Buffalo, New York.  
 The House voted 409-11 for the provision last October as
part of “the strongest safety bill passed in decades,” said
Representative  Jerry Costello , an Illinois Democrat.  
 The pilot-safety provisions, which also require additional
training for flying in icing conditions, may be adopted by the
House and Senate in the next few days as part of broader
legislation to fund the Federal Aviation Administration through
Sept. 30, Costello and Representative  James Oberstar  said.  
 “I expect the Senate to concur,” Oberstar, a Minnesota
Democrat and chairman of the House Transportation and
Infrastructure Committee, said on a call with reporters.  
 Lawmakers have until Aug. 1 to extend the law that finances
the FAA because without action the taxes supporting the agency
expire. The House lawmakers are adding the safety provisions to
legislation extending FAA financing to Sept. 30. While funding
would be temporary, the safety provisions would be permanent.  
 Besides the 1,500-hour limit, the legislation requires the
FAA to ensure pilots have been trained in stall recovery and
would force airlines to take steps to make sure pilots are not
flying when they are tired.  
 Incorrect Response  
 The National Transportation Safety Board said this year
that Captain Marvin Renslow of  Pinnacle Airlines Corp .’s Colgan
unit caused his plane to crash near Buffalo, killing 50, by
incorrectly responding to a stall warning in the cockpit. He
died along with all passengers, crew and a person on the ground.  
 Renslow and co-pilot Rebecca Shaw each had more than 1,500
hours of experience when the plane crashed. Renslow, 47, had
3,379 hours and Shaw, 24, had 2,244, according to the NTSB.  
 The pilots may have been “seasoned enough” to avoid
actions that led to the crash had they been had more than 1,500
hours of experience before they were hired, said Paul Onorato,
president of the Coalition of Airline Pilots Associations.
Onorato said neither pilot met the experience threshold.  
 “That airplane was perfectly capable of flying,” said
Onorato, whose group represents pilots at carriers including AMR
Corp.’s American Airlines, Southwest Airlines Co. and US Airways
Group Inc.  
 House and Senate lawmakers are putting off for now
resolving disagreements that have stalled a longer-term FAA
bill. Legislators are at odds over raising passenger ticket fees
that fund airports and enacting a provision that makes it easier
for ground workers at  FedEx Corp. ’s Express unit to form unions.  
 Congress is almost three years overdue in renewing the law
that finances the FAA. The agency has been operating on
temporary renewals of the law while lawmakers negotiate.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Hughes  in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        