-- Pimco Draws About $1 Billion a Week, Returns of 10% Unlikely, Gross Says
-- Tom Keene
-- 2010-07-28T22:23:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/pimco-draws-about-1-billion-a-week-returns-of-10-unlikely-gross-says.html

          
          
             Pacific Investment Management Co.,
the world’s largest manager of bond funds, is attracting almost
$1 billion a week from investors, according to  Bill Gross , the
firm’s co-founder and co-chief investment officer.  
 Gross’s $234 billion  Total Return Fund , the biggest bond
fund, has benefitted this year as interest rates declined and
investors questioned the sustainability of the global economic
recovery. The fund returned 13 percent in the past 12 months,
beating 64 percent of its peers, Bloomberg data show. It has
gained 1.24 percent this month, a performance outpacing 68
percent of competitors.  
 Returns of 10 percent or higher are unlikely to be
duplicated in what Pimco has termed the new normal, a period in
which deleveraging, re-regulation and de-globalization will lead
to slower growth and investment below historical averages, Gross
said today in a Bloomberg Radio’s “On The Economy” interview
with  Tom Keene . Gross has said investors should be prepared for
returns of around 4 percent to 5 percent from bonds and stocks
over the next several years.  
 “The only way to do that would be through a Japanese
deflation in which Treasury prices continue to move higher,”
Gross said. “What we really try to do is to analyze what our
new normal means for interest rates and for the shape of yield
curves, not just in the U.S. but globally.”  
 Treasuries, Corporates  
 The fund’s Sharpe ratio averaged 4.1 this year. The average
for comparable funds is 3.56 and the index average is 2.76. A
higher Sharpe ratio indicates better risk-adjusted returns.  
 Pimco is using the investor proceeds to buy Treasuries at
the government’s weekly and monthly auctions and is also
investing in newly issued corporate securities, Gross said.  
 While yields on 10-year Treasuries are unlikely to revisit
the all-time low of 2.04 percent reached Dec. 18, 2008, interest
rates will remain low with the Federal Reserve keeping its
target rate for overnight loans between banks at a record low
range of zero to 0.25 percent for two to three years, Gross
said. He also prefers the debt of emerging economies such as
Mexico and Brazil, rather than high-yielding securities of
Greece and Spain.  
 Gross boosted holdings of government-related debt to the
highest level in eight months in June as the U.S. recovery
showed signs of waning. The  Total Return Fund ’s investment in
the debt was increased to 63 percent of assets in June, from 51
percent in the previous month. Emerging-market debt was raised
to 10 percent, breaking the 9 percent record set last month.  
 Yield Curve  
 Pimco’s U.S. government-related debt category can include
conventional and inflation-linked Treasuries, agency debt,
interest-rate derivatives, Treasury futures and options and bank
debt backed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., according to
the firm’s website.  
 “As long as short rates stay at zero or close to zero, and
that’s the key caveat, then an investor can make money simply by
buying 5-year Treasuries, watching them roll down the curve to
four years and then popping back up to five years again,” Gross
said.  
 Pimco, which has been synonymous with bonds for almost four
decades, in the past year has created an equity mutual fund and
a unit to invest in hedge, real estate and buyout funds. Newport
Beach, California-based Pimco has also started 10 exchange-
traded funds.  
 Pimco, a unit of Munich-based insurer Allianz SE, managed
$1.07 trillion of assets as of March 31.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Kowalski  in New York at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
     
         Audio Download:  7/28 Pimco's Gross Interview About Treasuries, Strategy 
     
         

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
