-- Portugal Telecom Squeezes $2.3 Billion Out of Alierta
-- Paul Tobin
-- 2010-07-29T07:26:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/portugal-telecom-squeezes-2-3-billion-out-of-alierta-to-close-vivo-deal.html

          
          
             Telefonica SA  called its initial bid
for  Portugal Telecom SGPS SA ’s stake in  Vivo Participacoes SA  of
Brazil “fair, full and final.” Chairman  Cesar Alierta  paid 1.8
billion euros ($2.3 billion) more to close the deal.  
 Telefonica yesterday agreed to spend 7.5 billion euros in
cash on Portugal Telecom’s holding in their 50-50 venture that
controls Vivo, Brazil’s largest wireless operator. That was 32
percent more than the 5.7 billion euros Alierta first offered.  
 The raised bid, equal to more than the entire  market value 
of Portugal Telecom on Tuesday, is a reflection both of the hard
bargain driven by Portugal Telecom’s board and the Portuguese
government, and of Alierta’s determination to secure growth in
Brazil as his home market of Spain cools.  
 “Portugal Telecom’s management deserves kudos for
preserving the deal and extracting the maximum value,” said
 Robin Bienenstock , an analyst at Sanford C Bernstein. “Such a
bet by Telefonica on Brazil means that problems in Spain are
more serious and likely to be more lasting than investors had
previously expected.”  
 Telefonica today said  second-quarter  sales in Spain fell
3.2 percent while revenue in Latin America soared 16 percent.
Overseas growth boosted profit to 2.12 billion euros from 1.83
billion euros a year earlier, beating analysts’ average estimate
of 1.94 billion euros.  
 Slim, Vivendi  
 Alierta’s challenge is to wring cost savings out of the
purchase to prove he didn’t overpay. The acquisition will make
Telefonica the largest phone company in Brazil, where growth is
faster than in Europe even as competition grows from America
Movil SAB, controlled by Mexican billionaire  Carlos Slim , and
France’s  Vivendi SA .  
 He needed to gain control of Vivo to merge it with
Telefonica’s Brazilian fixed-line unit, Telesp, and put an end
to the slide in operating profit at the business. Vivo yesterday
posted a 30 percent jump in profit for the second quarter.  
 “Time will tell if Telefonica has overpaid,” said  Roger Appleyard , head of global credit research at RBC Capital Markets
in London. “There is a value to stemming the decline of Telesp
on top of the synergies they may extract with the merger, so
probably not.”  
 The acquisition would be Telefonica’s biggest since 2006,
when it bought Slough, England-based O2 Plc, the U.K. mobile-
phone operator, for 17.7 billion pounds ($31.5 billion), the
largest in its history.  
 Excluding the Vivo deal, Telefonica has made or agreed to
86 other acquisitions worth $95 billion since 1996, according to
Bloomberg data.  
 Government Veto  
 Telefonica’s final offer for Portugal Telecom’s stake in
Brasilcel NV, their venture that owns 60 percent of Vivo, was
greater than the Portuguese company’s market value of 7.44
billion euros on July 27, the last trading day before the
improved bid was disclosed.  
 Telefonica on May 6 offered 5.7 billion euros for the
stake. It raised the bid to 6.5 billion euros in June and in the
same month increased it to 7.15 billion euros, after the two
earlier offers were rejected by the company.  
 The third offer, which won approval from the Lisbon-based
company’s investors, was blocked by the Portuguese government
last month using special veto powers.  
 “It makes you think whether the government veto was part
of a greater plan to get a higher price, because that is what it
achieved,” said Appleyard.  
 Reviving Telesp  
 Telefonica needs Vivo to revive  Telecomunicacoes de Sao
Paulo SA , or Telesp as the fixed-line unit in Brazil is known.
The company posted a fourth quarterly drop in revenue in the
second quarter. Its earnings before interest, tax, depreciation
and amortization  peaked  in 2006 and are expected to fall again
this year, according to Bloomberg  estimates .  
 Vivo ended June with 56 million clients. The carrier
controls 30 percent of Brazil’s mobile-phone market, according
to Anatel, the country’s phone regulator. Telefonica said a
combined Vivo-Telesp group would have 69 million clients, based
on March figures.  
 Both Telefonica and Portugal Telecom are betting on Brazil
to spur growth. Domestic demand is fueling Brazil’s fastest
expansion in more than two decades. Latin America’s biggest
economy will grow this year 7.3 percent, according to central
bank estimates.  
 Portugal Telecom yesterday agreed to pay 8.44 billion reais
($4.8 billion) for a 22.4 percent stake in Brazil’s Telemar
Norte Leste, known as Oi. The company didn’t want to relinquish
the Vivo stake without securing another fast-growing business.  
 ‘Win-Win’  
 It “is a win-win from our perspective,” Portugal Telecom
Chief Executive Officer  Zeinal Bava  said. “Brazil continues to
be an important strategic bet for Portugal Telecom.”  
 The unemployment rate in Brazil’s six major cities fell to
7 percent in June, the second-lowest reading on record,
according to figures from the national statistic agency. Spain
has a 20 percent unemployment rate, the highest in the euro
region, and the country’s economy is forecast to shrink for a
second full year in 2010.  
 Telefonica’s transaction with Portugal Telecom marks the
end of their Brazilian alliance started in 2001 and allows
Alierta to complete a deal he has been pursuing since at least
2006.  
 “Brazilian mobile was the biggest gap in Telefonica’s
footprint,” said  Georgios Ierodiaconou , an analyst at ING Groep
NV. “It’s been their main target for a few years.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Paul Tobin  in Madrid at 
 ptobin@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Cesar Alierta, chairman and chief executive officer of Telefonica SA, speaks during an interview in New York. Photographer: Jonathan Fickies/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
