-- Portugal Telecom to Buy Stake in Brazil's Oi for $4.8 Billion
-- Anabela Reis
-- 2010-07-28T16:39:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/portugal-telecom-to-buy-stake-in-brazil-s-oi-for-4-8-billion.html

          
          
             Portugal Telecom SGPS SA  agreed to
buy a stake in  Telemar Norte Leste SA  to remain in the Brazilian
telecommunications market as it sells its shares in the
country’s biggest mobile-phone operator to Telefonica SA.  
 Portugal Telecom will pay a maximum of about 8.4 billion
reais ($4.8 billion) for indirect and direct stakes equivalent
to 22.4 percent of Oi, as Telemar is known, the companies said
today in regulatory filings. Telemar also plans to acquire 10
percent of Portugal Telecom, replacing Telefonica as the
Portuguese company’s biggest investor.  
 The Oi deal came as Portugal Telecom agreed to sell its
stake in a venture controlling Brazil’s largest wireless
operator,  Vivo Participacoes SA , to its Spanish partner.
 Telefonica  agreed to buy out the Lisbon-based company’s stake
for 7.5 billion euros ($9.7 billion) after it had raised its bid
three times.  
 Exiting Vivo and investing in Oi leaves the Portuguese
company with a similar size and a stronger balance sheet, it
said in a presentation today. It’s leaving a company that’s
focused on wireless service and entering one that’s No. 4 in
Brazil’s wireless market and No. 1 in fixed-line service.  
 Scope for Improvement  
 “Brazil is a market that PT management knows extremely
well and we see scope for improved operating performance at
Oi,” Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts including  Tim Boddy  said
in a note after the announcement. They have a “neutral” rating
on Portugal Telecom.  
 The remainder of Portugal Telecom’s proceeds from the Vivo
sale may be used to reduce debt, for a special dividend or share
buybacks, the analysts said. The company hasn’t decided what to
do with that money, Chief Executive Officer  Zeinal Bava  said at
a press conference today in Lisbon.  
 The Portuguese company’s  shares  climbed 23 cents, or 2.8
percent, to 8.53 euros at the 4:30 p.m. close of trading in
Lisbon, boosting its market value to 7.65 billion euros.  
 Oi provides Internet access, mobile, fixed-line and pay-
television services. It had a record first-quarter  profit  after
acquiring its smaller rival Brasil Telecom SA in 2009. The Rio
de Janeiro-based company had a 20.1 percent share of the
country’s wireless market in June, while market leader Vivo had
30.2 percent, according to Brazil’s telecommunications
regulator.  
 Mobile Competitors  
 Oi’s mobile business also trails America Movil SAB,
controlled by Mexican billionaire Carlos Slim, and Tim
Participacoes SA, a unit of Telecom Italia. Oi’s land lines are
present in most of the country except the most populous state,
Sao Paulo, where Telefonica’s Telecomunicacoes de Sao Paulo SA
is the traditional fixed-line carrier.  
 About two-thirds of the purchase price will be reinvested
in Oi’s growth, Portugal Telecom’s Bava said.  
 Telefonica’s previous offer for the Vivo stake won approval
from Portugal Telecom’s shareholders on June 30. The Portuguese
government blocked the sale because it was concerned the former
phone monopoly would be left without a fast-growing asset.  
 Revising its 2009 results to exclude Vivo and include Oi,
Portugal Telecom would have had annual  revenue  of 6.24 billion
euros instead of 6.88 billion euros. The company will have 83
million clients with Oi, and it maintains its goal of 100
million clients by the end of 2011, Bava said.  
 The companies aim to complete the transaction in the first
quarter, Bava said. The companies didn’t specify a price or
timetable for Oi’s purchases of Portugal Telecom shares. They
will take place on the market once the Portuguese company’s
investments have taken place, Bava said on a conference call.  
 Telemar Norte Leste’s parent company is  Tele Norte Leste
Participacoes SA , which in turn is controlled by closely held
Telemar Participacoes. Portugal Telecom will be able to
consolidate Telemar Participacoes results in its own earnings,
Bava said.  
 Asked if Portugal Telecom would consider buying more shares
in Oi, Bava said on the conference call, “We’re quite happy with
what we’ve announced.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anabela Reis  in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        