-- Trader Joe's Owner, German Billionaire Theo Albrecht Dies
-- Holger Elfes
-- 2010-07-28T15:46:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/trader-joe-s-owner-albrecht-germany-s-third-richest-man-has-died-at-88.html

          
          
             Theo Albrecht , the billionaire whose
expansion of no-frills Aldi Group grocery stores made him
Germany’s third-richest man, has died at 88.  
 Albrecht passed away in the western Germany city of Essen
on July 24,  Aldi  Nord said today in a faxed statement.  Der
Spiegel  reported that Albrecht, who also owned Trader Joe’s
stores in the U.S., had been ill since a fall a year ago and was
buried in a private ceremony early today.  
 “Aldi mourns a man who was humble toward his business
partners as well as fellow employees and always held them in
great respect,” the company said in the statement.  
 The expansion of Aldi from Germany’s industrial Ruhr Valley
into a global retailer that generated 53 billion euros ($68.9
billion) in revenue last year made Theo and his brother, 90-
year-old Karl, two of the richest people in the world. Their
combined fortune topped $40 billion in 2010, according to
Forbes, which ranked Theo and Karl 31st and 10th, respectively.  
 The brothers’ key to success was their low-cost business
model: a limited assortment of goods that pared down supply
expenses and a minimal level of advertising. The result was a
shopping experience that lacked the refinement of brightly-lit
supermarket chains. In return, consumers often paid less than
they would have elsewhere.  
 ‘Revolutionary’  
 Albrecht “stood for the establishment of a revolutionary
and brand-new retail concept,”  Klaus Kraenzle , a consumer-goods
analyst at GSC Research in Dusseldorf, said in an interview.  
 The billionaire had two sons, Theo and Berthold, who work
for Aldi Nord, according to Spiegel. Albrecht had already
clarified a plan for succession at Aldi Nord and the company’s
assets are held in protected trusts that will guarantee the
further expansion of the business, the company said.  
 “For several years the company has been led by experienced
Aldi managers who made all operating decisions independently
from Theo Albrecht and his family,” the statement said.  
 “The retail industry has lost one of its great
entrepreneurs,” said  Stefan Genth , executive director of the
German retailers’ association HDE. “There are only few people
who have characterized a whole industry like he did.”  
 Albrecht contributed to “public welfare” because he made
high quality food affordable for consumers, Genth said.  
 “Albrecht is a pioneer in his industry, but Aldi’s
discount concepts also led to a price driven market,” said
Joerg Funder, a retail expert at Worms University in the German
town of the same name.  
 Kidnap Ransom  
 Discounters represent about 30 percent of the German food
retailing market, an average 10 percentage points more than in
other countries, said Boris Hedde, director of the Cologne-based
retail research institute IFH.  
 “The discount concept has its roots in Germany and is
being copied increasingly in other countries,” he said.  
 Little is known about either Albrecht brother, whose last
photographs appeared in the 1980s, according to Der Spiegel.
Theo lived in near-total seclusion, a circumstance compounded
after he was kidnapped for a 17-day stretch in 1971, the
magazine reported. The Albrecht family paid 7 million deutsche
marks ($4.6 million) in ransom, which was handed over to the
assailants by the bishop of Essen. There are only three
confirmed public statements from Theo, according to Kraenzle.  
 Aldi Nord  
 Theo was born in Essen in 1922. The brothers took over
their parents’ grocery store in 1946 after serving
apprenticeships there, according to the statement. They opened
more outlets, shortening “Albrecht Discount” to Aldi. As the
business expanded, the brothers divided it into independent
operations in 1960: Theo took over the north; Karl the south.  
 Aldi Nord has stores in western Europe and Poland, with
about 2,400 outlets in Germany and 2,000 outside the country.
Karl’s half, Aldi Sued, has stores in regions including the
U.S., U.K. and Australia. Theo’s retail empire was enhanced by
the 1979 purchase of U.S. discounter Trader Joe’s. The chain,
which has 342 outlets, generated sales of $8 billion last year.  
 Aldi’s growth has begun to be eclipsed by its imitators.
Both businesses lost market share last year in Germany, said
Wolfgang Adlwarth, an analyst at market researcher GfK SE in
Nuremberg. The figure fell to 18.4 percent from 19 percent in
2009 and the decline continued this year, according to Adlwarth.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Donahue  in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
 Holger Elfes  in Dusseldorf at 
 helfes@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Theo Albrecht, the joint founder of budget supermarket giant Aldi. Roland Scheidemann/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
