-- Treasury Five-Year Notes Gain as Outlook on Economy Overshadows Auction
-- Paul Dobson
-- 2010-07-28T15:48:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/treasuries-rise-on-speculation-fed-report-will-show-economy-is-weakening.html

          
          
             Treasury five-year notes gained
before the U.S. sells $37 billion of them as a government report
showed an unexpected drop last month in durable-goods orders,
increasing speculation America’s economic recovery is slowing.  
 Treasury notes of all maturities rose before a Federal
Reserve report that may show a slackening in economic growth.
U.S. gross domestic product slowed in the second quarter,
government data this week is forecast to show.  
 “The more confirmation we get that the recovery is
transitioning into a slower growth phase, then prices could be
effectively supported here,” said  Christopher Sullivan , who
oversees $1.6 billion as chief investment officer at United
Nations Federal Credit Union in New York.  
 The five-year note yield fell 2 basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 1.77 percent at 11:46 a.m. in New York,
according to BGCantor Market Data. It earlier touched 1.79
percent, almost the highest level since July 15.  
 The benchmark 10-year  yield  declined 1 basis point to 3.04
percent. It earlier touched 3.06 percent, the highest level
since July 15. It was still poised for a monthly loss after
falling amid gains by stocks and an easing of speculation that
Europe’s debt crisis would worsen.  
 “People are most concerned about growth expectations,”
said  Paul Horrmann , a broker in New York at Tradition Asiel
Securities Inc., an interdealer broker. “Some still think there
could be a small downturn and that could be a valid reason to
keep rates lower.”  
 ‘Volatile Number’  
 Orders for durable goods declined 1 percent last month,
after a revised 0.8 percent slide in May, a Commerce Department
report showed. The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 76
economists was for a 1 percent increase.  
 “The economy is not strong -- I don’t think there’s any
question about that,” said  Theodore Ake , head of Treasury
trading at Societe Generale SA in New York. “Durable goods is a
highly volatile number, and it’s definitely showing weakness.”  
 Today’s central bank report, the so-called Beige Book
regional survey, discusses economic conditions as reported by
the Fed’s 12 district banks. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
July 21 “the economic outlook remains unusually uncertain.”  
 Last month’s survey showed the U.S. economy strengthened in
all 12 regions in April and May, while also noting that growth
in many was subdued.  
 ‘Momentum Slackened’  
 “The Beige Book is likely to confirm that the economic
momentum slackened again at the end of the second quarter and
also at the start of the third quarter,” fixed-income analysts
at WestLB AG in Dusseldorf including  Michael Leister  wrote in an
investor note today. “Inflation probably remained modest, which
allows the Fed to maintain the fed funds rate at the low level
for an extended period.  
 U.S. gross domestic product growth slowed to 2.5 percent in
the second quarter, versus 2.7 percent in the previous three
months, according to the median estimate of 80 economists in a
Bloomberg survey before the government reports the figure on
July 30.  
 London & Capital Group Holdings Plc, a U.K. fund manager,
bought more U.S., German and British debt in the past six weeks,
betting the nations’ efforts to control deficits will hamper
growth and keep interest rates low.  
 “We have a constructive outlook on government bonds
because of the low growth, low inflation and low interest-rate
outlook,”  Sanjay Joshi , who oversees about $500 million as a
portfolio manager at the London-based company, said in an
interview. “We increased our allocation of government bonds
including five-year Treasuries, bunds and gilts.”  
 Rate Bets  
 Futures on the CME Group Inc. exchange show traders have
reduced the chance to 42 percent that policy makers will raise
their  target lending rate  for overnight bank loans by April from
54 percent odds a month ago.  
 Policy makers cut the target to a range of zero to 0.25
percent in December 2008 to foster economic growth.  
 U.S. 30-year bond yields rose 2 basis points to 4.10
percent today, and the extra yield investors demand to hold the
securities instead of 10-year notes widened to the most in 15
months. The difference in yield, or spread, touched 106.2 basis
points, the most since March 2009.  
 The five-year Treasury notes being sold today yielded 1.805
percent in pre-auction trading, dropping from 1.995 percent at
the previous sale on June 23. Investors  bid  for 2.58 times the
amount on offer last month, less than the average of 2.66 for
the past 10 auctions.  
 Indirect  bidders,  the category of investors that includes
foreign central banks, bought 34.6 percent of the notes, versus
the 10-sale average of 46.2 percent.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        