-- Fed's Beige Book Says Economic Recovery Slowed in Some Areas
-- Joshua Zumbrun
-- 2010-07-28T20:32:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/recovery-slowed-in-some-areas-of-u-s-in-past-two-months-fed-survey-shows.html

          
          
             The Federal Reserve said U.S.
economic growth slowed in some areas over the past two months,
dragged down by commercial real estate and the expiration of a
tax credit for homebuyers.  
 “Economic activity has continued to increase, on balance,
since the previous survey,” the central bank said today in its
Beige Book business survey, while noting that two of the Fed’s
12 districts reported the economy “held steady” and two said
the pace of expansion slowed.  
 The report underscored the Fed’s view that the recovery,
while still moving forward, is progressing at a slower pace than
earlier in the year. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in
congressional testimony last week that the central bank expects
“continued moderate growth” and noted that the economic
outlook remains “unusually uncertain.”  
 The Fed reported improvements in service industries, an
increase in tourism, an expansion of manufacturing and progress
in labor markets.  
 “Growth still appears to be positive but pretty
lackluster,” said  Scott Brown , chief economist for Raymond
James & Associates Inc. in St. Petersburg, Florida. “From this
and judging from Bernanke’s testimony it doesn’t seem likely to
act to boost the economy anytime soon.”  
 Treasuries extended gains after the report. The yield on
the current five-year note dropped 9 basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, to 1.70 percent at 4:22 p.m. in New York,
according to BGCantor Market Data. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index fell 0.7 percent to 1,106.13.  
 Eisenhower Era  
 Yields on Treasuries this year have reached the lowest
level during an economic expansion since the Eisenhower
administration.  
 The nation’s unemployment rate, at 9.5 percent last month,
is higher than the 10-year average level of 5.8 percent. About
two-thirds of Americans view the country as headed in the wrong
direction, according to the most recent Bloomberg National Poll,
conducted July 9-12.  
 The survey, published two weeks before the Federal Open
Market Committee next meets, offers anecdotal evidence that will
help central bankers weigh changes in an economy where
confidence has slipped in recent months. The New York-based
Conference Board said yesterday that its survey of consumer
sentiment fell to the lowest level in five months.  
 ‘Discouraging’ Data  
 “I thought that the stress might be more on how much
things had weakened,”  David Resler , chief economist at Nomura
Securities International Inc. in New York, said in an interview
with Bloomberg Television. “In recent months we’ve seen
discouraging economic data, leading some people to fear a double
dip in the economy. Nothing here suggests that there is that
deterioration.”  
 Fed policy makers “expect continued moderate growth, a
gradual decline in the unemployment rate and subdued inflation
over the next several years,” Bernanke told Congress last week.
Business investment in equipment and software “appears to have
increased rapidly” in the first half, and “stronger exports”
have aided U.S. manufacturing growth, he said.  
 “Nearly all districts reported sluggish housing markets in
the months since the homebuyer tax credit expired on April 30,”
according to the report released today.  
 In June, housing starts fell to the lowest level in eight
months. Work began on a fewer-than-forecast 549,000 houses at an
annual rate, according to a Commerce Department report last
week.  
 Real Estate  
 Activity in commercial real estate, especially
construction, “remained weak,” the Fed said.  
 The Commerce Department will report Friday that the economy
grew at a 2.5 percent pace in the second quarter, according to a
Bloomberg survey of economists. The economy grew 2.7 percent in
the first three months of 2010.  
 The economy’s “rough patch” in recent months isn’t the
start of a sustained slide back into a recession, John Williams,
research director for the San Francisco Fed, said today.  
 “Although discouraging, the recent softness in the
economic data looks much more like a bump in the road” than “a
swerve into the ditch,” he said in a speech.  
 Manufacturing “continued to expand in most districts,
although several districts reported that activity had slowed or
leveled off during the reporting period,” the report said.  
 Last week, Caterpillar Inc., the world’s largest maker of
construction equipment, raised its full-year earnings forecast
on increasing demand for mining, energy and rail equipment in
developing countries. Machinery sales in North America increased
43 percent in the quarter, and 62 percent for Asia-Pacific
region and more than doubled in Latin America, the company said.  
 Profits  
 Western Union Co., the world’s biggest money-transfer
business, posted second-quarter profit that beat analysts’
estimates as U.S. transactions increased.  
 “When the economy picks up in different parts of the
world, we feel we’re very well positioned to respond,” Chief
Executive Officer-elect  Hikmet Ersek  said in an interview
yesterday. “We see a little bit better situation in the U.S.”  
 The Fed’s district banks of Cleveland and Kansas City
reported economic activity “generally held steady,” today’s
report said. The Atlanta and Chicago Fed said the “pace of
economic activity had slowed recently.” Their outlook was less
optimistic than the previous Beige Book on June 9, when the Fed
said that economic activity had “continued to improve” in all
twelve districts at a “modest” pace.  
 Tourism  
 Districts noted “improved conditions” in service
industries and said tourism picked up. The Atlanta district
reported “concerns about decreased leisure travel to the Gulf
Coast.”  
 For consumer spending, the Fed said “reports on retail
sales during the earlier summer months were generally positive”
noting that “the increases were modest.”  
 Labor market conditions “improved gradually in several
districts,” the Fed said. Five districts reported that labor
markets improved, and two reported employment was steady. Five
districts said demand for temporary hires had increased.  
 The pace of hiring at companies in the U.S. slowed in
recent months. Private employers hired 83,000 people in June and
33,000 in May, according to a July 2 Labor Department report. In
April, companies hired 241,000 people.  
 Delta Air Lines Inc., the world’s largest carrier, has
1,000 airport job openings as it hires workers at its 25 biggest
U.S. airports to help with planes that are flying with near-
record percentages of seats filled and cope with weather
disruptions.  
 Delta Hiring  
 The Atlanta-based airline anticipates getting 65,000
applicants for the openings, according to a recorded message to
employees from Chief Executive Officer  Richard Anderson  earlier
this month.  
 Today’s Beige Book reflects information collected on or
before July 19, and summarized by staffers at the St. Louis Fed.  
 Reports on banking conditions were “largely mixed.” The
Richmond Fed reported increasing activity, and the Kansas City
Fed said loan demand increased modestly. Three districts said
loan demand was weak while two districts said total loan volume
was flat.  
 Prices for consumers were “relatively stable in most
districts,” the report said and “wage pressures remained
largely contained across most districts.”  
 The Fed’s preferred gauge for the trend of inflation -- the
core personal-consumption expenditures price index, minus food
and energy -- rose at an annual rate of 1.3 percent in May,
below the Fed’s target for inflation of 1.7 percent to 2
percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve, listens during a forum in Detroit. Photographer: Jeff Kowalsky/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 28 (Bloomberg) -- David Resler, chief economist at Nomura Securities, talks with Bloomberg's Lori Rothman and Michael McKee about today's release of the Beige Book and the outlook for the U.S. economy.
     Resler discusses the outlook for real estate, uncertainty in the jobs market, and current banking conditions. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
