-- Three Ex-GE Bankers Indicted as U.S. Bid-Rigging Probe Broadens
-- Martin Z. Braun
-- 2010-07-28T14:36:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/three-former-general-electric-bankers-are-indicted-in-bid-rigging-inquiry.html

          
          
             Three former bankers with a  General
Electric Co.  unit that sold investment contracts to state and
local governments were indicted for conspiring to profit at
taxpayers’ expense by rigging bids, showing the broadening scope
of a Justice Department investigation of municipal finance.  
 Dominick Carollo ,  Steven Goldberg  and  Peter Grimm , all of
whom once worked for finance units of General Electric, were
charged with fraud and conspiracy, the Justice Department said.
They allegedly paid kickbacks to local government brokers, who
were hired to solicit competitive bids for investment deals, to
win the bidding and increase their profits.  
 “The individuals charged today allegedly participated in
complex fraud schemes and conspiracies to manipulate what was
supposed to be a competitive process,”  Christine Varney ,
assistant attorney general in charge of the Justice Department’s
Antitrust Division, said yesterday in a statement.  
 The charges are a result of an antitrust investigation,
begun more than three years ago, into the $2.8 trillion
municipal bond market. The probe has drawn in more than a dozen
banks and financial services companies, including  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. ,  Bank of America Corp.  and  UBS AG , according to court
records and regulatory filings.  
 The case centers on guaranteed investment contracts, known
as GICs, that municipalities purchase with money raised by
selling bonds, allowing them to earn a return until the funds
are needed for schools, roads and other public works.  
 Collusion, Kickbacks  
 The U.S. Treasury Department encourages public bidding for
GICs to ensure that localities are paid proper market rates.
Prosecutors allege that bankers submitted sham bids and acted
through the brokers to carve up the market for themselves, then
compensated the brokers with kickbacks disguised as fees on
derivative transactions.  
 In October, three executives from Los Angeles-based CDR
Financial Products Inc. were indicted and have since decided to
fight the charges. Three others who worked at CDR pleaded guilty
this year and agreed to cooperate with prosecutors. In May, a
former UBS banker, who also agreed to cooperate, pleaded guilty,
marking the first time a bank employee admitted to participating
in the alleged conspiracy.  
 Yesterday’s indictment also involves Goldberg and Carollo’s
work after they left GE. Goldberg went to Financial Security
Assurance Holdings Ltd., a former unit of Brussels-based  Dexia
SA , while Carollo went on to work for  Royal Bank of Canada .  
 RBC spokesman  Kevin Foster  didn’t respond to requests for
comment.  Thierry Martiny , a spokesman for Dexia, declined to
comment.  
 GE Assists Probe  
 Russell Wilkerson , a spokesman for GE Capital, said the
company is assisting in the investigation.  
 “We have been cooperating with authorities on this
investigation and will continue to do so,” he said.  
 Yesterday’s indictment says CDR wasn’t the only adviser who
rigged bids. The 12-count indictment refers to four other
unidentified investment contract brokers, including “Broker
A,” based in Pottstown, Pennsylvania, who weren’t charged.
Investment Management Advisory Group Inc., based in Pottstown,
was raided by the Federal Bureau of Investigation in November
2006.  
 A message left with a receptionist for executives of
Investment Management Advisory Group Inc., or IMAGE, wasn’t
returned. Two Philadelphia-based lawyers that represented IMAGE,
 Timothy Hoeffner  at DLA Piper LLP, and  James Becker  at Buchanan
Ingersoll & Rooney PC didn’t return calls and e-mails.  
 ‘Provider B’  
 Units of Fairfield, Connecticut-based  General Electric , the
world’s biggest maker of jet engines, were previously identified
in court documents as “Provider B,” according to records
obtained by Bloomberg that are now under seal. GE wasn’t
mentioned in yesterday’s indictment, which refers to the three
men as working for “Provider B.”  
 The misconduct alleged in the indictment is similar to the
so-called yield-burning scandals of the 1990s, when brokers
overcharged local governments on Treasury bonds they bought with
the proceeds of bond sales.  
 In many cases, Internal Revenue Service regulations require
local governments to pay the Treasury Department a portion of
their earnings on investments purchased with the proceeds of
tax-exempt bonds. That means the U.S. government also loses when
localities are overcharged. The IRS has the power to strip bonds
of their tax exemptions if agencies run afoul of the rules,
which would also cost investors.  
 “The elaborate schemes outlined in the indictment boil
down to efforts by these defendants to subvert the competitive
bidding process for investment agreements,” FBI Acting
Assistant Director-in-Charge George Venizelos said in
yesterday’s statement. “In the process, they defrauded public
entities -- and therefore, the public -- and put bondholders at
risk.”  
 Fresh Details  
 The indictments provide fresh details of the workings of
the alleged conspiracy. On May 19, 2004, one day before bids
were due for a state housing agency to invest bond proceeds, CDR
suggested to Grimm that he could lower the rate he was prepared
to bid because the agency would have to return any money it
earned at a higher rate to the IRS. The next day, after checking
with CDR to confirm the lower rate, Grimm won the bid.  
 Grimm, 46, didn’t return messages left at his home or most-
recent employer, Lamont Financial Services Corp..  John Siffert ,
an attorney for Goldberg, 47, declined to comment, and Goldberg
didn’t return a call to his home seeking comment. Carollo, 56,
didn’t return a message left at his home.  
 The conspiracy continued after Goldberg left GE, according
to the indictment.  
 ‘Back Off’  
 In one case, in 2002, “Broker A” advised Grimm to “back
off” his bids on one such contract so that Goldberg, then at
FSA, could win. In return, the broker told Grimm he would find
him another one soon “where I will ask him not to sharpen his
pencil quite so.”  
 The broker said he would “rather have each of you make
some money alternatively.” Grimm agreed, lowering the offer he
submitted to ensure that his competitor would win.  
 The Justice Department said its investigation is
continuing.  
 The case is United States of America v. Carollo, 10-cr-
00654, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 William Selway  in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;
 Martin Z. Braun  in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 28 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg Businessweek's Diane Brady discusses General Electric Co.'s legal woes.
     Three former bankers that once worked for GE finance units have been indicted for conspiring to profit at taxpayers' expense by rigging bids, while in a separate case, the company agreed to pay $23.4 million to settle U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission complaints stemming from an effort to win contracts from Iraq's former government. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
