-- Residents, Copper Mine Hit By Central Chile's Fourth Power Cut This Year
-- Eduardo Thomson
-- 2010-07-28T18:49:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/residents-copper-mine-hit-by-central-chile-s-fourth-power-cut-this-year.html

          
          
             Chilean authorities vowed to punish
companies responsible for the fourth power outage this year
after residents and businesses in capital Santiago and at least
one copper mining operation were disrupted today.  
 Power went down in central and southern Chile for almost an
hour from 2:38 a.m. New York time, the central grid’s supervisor
said in an e-mailed statement. The outage was caused by a
failure at the Polpaico substation, the same facility that led
to cuts yesterday. A transmission failure caused cuts in
Santiago on July 19.  
 The recurring outages are “unacceptable” and those found
responsible may pay fines and client compensations, Energy
Minister  Ricardo Raineri  said today in an interview with
National Television. They are not “necessarily” the result of
damage caused by February’s earthquake, he said.  
 “We think that the interruptions are related to the way
that the power infrastructure is being handled, maintenance
problems and human errors,” Raineri said in the interview.  
 Chile continues to replace power equipment after February’s
quake led to a blackout in March, Raineri said after the July 19
cut.  
 Codelco, the world’s biggest copper producer, said the
outage affected some installations at its El Teniente mine for
20 minutes and “minor” equipment at its Salvador unit.
Codelco’s Ventanas and Andina units weren’t affected by today’s
cut, the state-owned company said in an e-mailed statement. It
said a 10-minute cut yesterday temporarily halted operations at
its Salvador and Andina divisions.  
 Los Pelambres Unaffected  
 Antofagasta Pl c, operator of the Los Pelambres copper mine,
had no interruptions today, Oliver Winters, an external
spokesman with London-based public relations firm Bankside, said
by telephone. Marcelo Esquivel, a spokesman for  Anglo American
Pl c, which operates the Los Bronces mine in central Chile,
didn’t respond to e-mail and phone messages.  
 An official at state-owned oil refiner Empresa Nacional del
Petroleo, who declined to be named citing company policy, said
there are no reports of production interruptions.  
 The government may fine transmission company Transelec SA
as much as $9 million for the cuts, El Mercurio reported today.
Transelec halted all work on the central grid and will deploy
“experts” to evaluate the system and its procedures, the
Santiago-based company said on its website.  
 “Drastic measures are necessary,”  Jorge Pizarro ,
president of Chile’s Senate, said in a statement posted on the
Senate’s website. “After two outages in less than 24 hours we
have to act efficiently and find those responsible, for the
peace of mind of the thousands of citizens impacted.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eduardo Thomson  in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        