-- Rusal Seeks Disclosure from Norilsk Nickel to End Battle for Board Seats
-- Ilya Khrennikov
-- 2010-07-28T16:13:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/rusal-seeks-disclosure-from-norilsk-nickel-to-end-battle-for-board-seats.html

          
          
             United Co. Rusal  demanded  OAO GMK
Norilsk Nickel  disclose how American depositary receipt holders
voted at a June 28 meeting, and offered to do the same, to end a
battle for influence at the world’s biggest nickel producer.  
 Rusal pledged to publish its ballots as long as Norilsk
Norilsk reveals how ADR holders, including those affiliated with
billionaire  Vladimir Potanin  and Norilsk management, voted for
board members, according to a letter Rusal sent to Norilsk and
dated today, a copy of which was obtained by Bloomberg News.  
 A feud between billionaire  Oleg Deripaska ’s Rusal and
Potanin’s Interros Holding Co., which each own 25 percent of
Norilsk, started in 2008 and reignited last month over the
disputed board election, dragging the shares down 11 percent in
the subsequent three days. The voting led Rusal-backed Chairman
 Alexander Voloshin  to lose his seat on Norilsk’s board.  
 The billionaires disagree on how to spend the cash Norilsk
is likely to generate by 2012, with Deripaska wanting dividends
and Potanin preferring buybacks, Russia’s Alfa Bank said in a
July 14 report.  
 Norilsk Nickel is ready to publish how its subsidiaries’
voted,  Maria Uvarova , spokeswoman for the company, said by
phone. She said the company has received Rusal’s letter.  
 “Publication of major shareholders’ voting ballots will
definitely make the voting results more transparent,” Uvarova
said. “We can’t publish other shareholders’ ballots without
their consent.”  
 Norilsk asked shareholders, including Interros, Rusal and
the Bank of New York, the ADR depository bank, to allow it to
publish 30,000 pages of ballots and supporting documents,
according to a statement on its website yesterday.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ilya Khrennikov  in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        