-- Russian Benchmark Stocks Climb Third Day on Crude, Uralkali Merger Report
-- Alex Nicholson
-- 2010-07-28T08:05:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/russian-benchmark-stocks-climb-third-day-on-crude-uralkali-merger-report.html

          
          
             Russian stocks headed for a third
day of gains as crude oil advanced and Vedomosti reported  OAO
Uralkali’s  billionaire owner is seeking to create the world’s
largest potash producer.  
 The country’s second-biggest producer of the fertilizer had
its strongest intraday increase in more than a month after
Vedomosti reported Suleiman Kerimov aims to add  OAO Silvinit  and
Belaruskali to the holding. Silvinit jumped as much as 7.2
percent, and traded up 5.2 percent, the steepest intraday gain
in more than a month.  OAO Rosneft , Russia’s largest oil company,
gained as much as 1.1 percent. Those movements helped push the
30-stock Micex Index 0.3 percent higher to 1,406.15 by 11:35
a.m. in Moscow.  
 Oil, Russia’s chief export earner, gained as much as 0.3
percent to $77.69 a barrel, reversing earlier losses as gains in
Chinese equity markets raised expectations that fuel demand will
rise. Kerimov met with Belarus President  Aleksandr Lukashenko  on
behalf of Uralkali and offered to buy 51 percent of state-owned
Belaruskali for $7.5 billion, Vedomosti said, citing an
unidentified person close to a Uralkali shareholder. Belarus
denied the meeting, according to the newspaper.  
 Kerimov is also in talks to buy Silvinit shares from board
member Petr Kondrashev, according to the paper, which cited an
unidentified person close to Silvinit. The billionaire already
owns 25 percent of the Russian potash producer, the newspaper
said.  
 OAO Magnitogorsk Iron & Steel  added as much as 2.1 percent
to 24.967 rubles. The company’s OAO Belon unit increased coal
output 32 percent in the first half compared with a year earlier
to 4.1 million metric tons, Magnitogorsk said in an e-mailed
statement today.  
 For Related News and Information:
Emerging-market news: NI EM <GO>
For emerging-market stock news: TNI EM STK <GO>
Developing economy market moves: EMMV <GO>
Emerging-market economic statistics: STAT4 <GO>
For news on Russia: TOP RUS <GO>  
          
          


  


        