-- Russian Pilot Beaten, Missing in Darfur Following Militia Attack, UN Says
-- Maram Mazen
-- 2010-07-28T18:23:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/russian-pilot-beaten-missing-in-darfur-following-militia-attack-un-says.html

          
          
             A Russian pilot with the  United
Nations  and African Union joint peacekeeping mission in the
Darfur region of Sudan was assaulted after his helicopter was
hijacked on July 26, the UN said today.  
 A militia group supported by Sudan’s government seized the
helicopter, the Russian news agency  Itar-Tass  reported citing
Mikhail Mergelov, chairman of the Russian Federation Council’s
committee for international affairs. The pilot is “in the hands
of regular armed formations that theoretically must obey
Khartoum,” Margelov said, according to Itar-Tass.  
 The helicopter was transporting three commanders of the
Liberty and Justice Movement, a Darfur rebel group, when it
landed in an undesignated area due to bad weather outside Nyala,
the capital of South Darfur, Chris Cycmanick, a spokesman for
the UN in Sudan said. The rebel commanders were on their way to
Doha, the Qatari capital, to participate in peace talks with the
Sudanese government, he said.  
 The rebel commanders and the pilot were “beaten at the
scene,” UN spokesman Martin Nesirky told reporters in New York.
“Subsequently, the crew and passengers, with the exception of
the pilot, were taken to a government military camp overnight.”
The crew and the rebel commanders returned to Nyala yesterday,
he said. The helicopter is still missing.  
 “The United Nations remains deeply concerned about his
welfare,” Nesirky said, referring to the Russian pilot. He said
the UN is “working with the government of Sudan to locate
him.”  
 Sudan’s ambassador to the UN didn’t return a phone call
asking for information about the incident.  
 Conflict Since 2003  
 The helicopter, operated by Utair, Russia’s fifth-largest
airline, provides services for the joint UN-AU peacekeeping
mission in Darfur, the Russian Foreign Ministry said in a
statement on its website.  
 Darfur has been the scene of conflict between the
government and rebel groups since 2003. As many as 300,000
people have died, mainly due to illness and starvation,
according to UN estimates. Sudanese President  Umar al-Bashir ’s
government puts the death toll at about 10,000.  
 Margelov said the Janjaweed may be acting independently of
the government because the militia’s funding has been cut off,
Itar-Tass reported. He said the Janjaweed is “putting sand in
the wheels, standing in the way of Khartoum, which is very much
interested in negotiations with different armed groups and in
achieving political settlement in Darfur,” according to Itar-
Tass.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Maram Mazen  in Khartoum via the Cairo newsroom at
   mmazen@bloomberg.net .
 Bill Varner  at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        