-- Russia Sells Longest Ruble Bonds Since October as Yields Fall
-- Artyom Danielyan
-- 2010-07-29T15:13:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/russia-sells-longest-maturity-ruble-bonds-since-september-as-yields-recede.html

          
          
             Russia sold its longest-maturity
bonds since October as a quickening economic recovery lured
investors to notes the government was unable to issue last week.  
 The Finance Ministry  placed  26.5 billion rubles ($877
million) of five-year bonds and 3 billion rubles of shorter-
dated debt yesterday in its biggest auction since January,
according to the central bank’s website. The 2015 bonds were
priced to yield 7 percent, the lowest end of the 7 to 7.51
percent yield range investors demanded for the same debt when it
was offered last week, according to the Finance Ministry.  
 Bondholders are returning after the government said this
week economic growth accelerated to 5.4 percent in the second
quarter from 2.9 percent in the first three months of 2010.
Deputy Finance Minister  Dmitry Pankin  said the auction may mark
a turning point after debt auctions raised 21 percent of the 1.2
trillion rubles targeted for 2010, as of last week.  
 “We have seen strong demand for long debt, this is a good
trend,” Pankin said in a telephone interview after the auction.
“Last week investors demanded yields that were too high, today
the bids were more realistic.”  
 Russian government bonds have climbed during the past week,
reducing the yield on OFZ notes due December 2014 to the lowest
level since April 20 at 6.64 percent on July 27, from 8.56
percent in October. The yield fell 4 basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 6.63 percent today, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  
 July Sales  
 Russia has sold 80 billion rubles of bonds this month
compared with plans to borrow 195 billion rubles in July,
Finance Ministry data show. Russia raised 34 billion rubles less
than offered in two bond auctions last week as the yields sought
“did not meet expectations” the Finance Ministry said at the
time.  
 “It was investors that adjusted their expectations rather
than the Ministry of Finance,”  Mikhail Galkin , head of fixed-
income research at VTB Capital in Moscow, said in a phone
interview.  
 The Economy Ministry may lift this year’s growth forecast
after increased domestic spending boosted GDP in the second
quarter, Deputy Economy Minister  Andrei Klepach  told reporters
on July 27. The government currently forecasts 4 percent growth
for 2010.  
 ‘Longer-Term’  
 “Investors demand longer-term debt where there is still
potential for price growth,” said  Ilya Zhila , a fixed-income
analyst at Renaissance Capital in Moscow. “Expectations of low
inflation and economic growth are boosting demand for bonds with
maturities beyond four years.”  
 Inflation fell to a record 5.8 percent in June amid lower
consumer demand after last year’s record 7.9 percent economic
contraction. Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said last month that
the pace of price growth won’t exceed 7 percent in the next
three years. The central bank has cut its benchmark interest
rate 14 times since the start of 2009 to 7.75 percent in May.  
 Gains in oil, Russia’s biggest export, and accelerating
economic growth helped the ruble strengthen 1.3 percent against
the dollar since July 19. The currency gained 0.3 percent to
30.1600 per dollar in Moscow trading today. Non-deliverable
forwards, or NDFs, which provide a guide to expectations of
currency movements as they allow foreign investors and companies
to fix the exchange rate at a specific level in the future, show
the ruble weakening to 30.3888 per dollar in three months.  
 Yield Spreads  
 The extra yield investors demand to own the Russian
government’s foreign-currency debt rather than U.S. Treasuries
fell 8 basis points to 228, more than the spread of 148 for debt
of similarly rated Mexico and 201 for Brazil, which is ranked
one step lower at BBB- by Standard & Poor’s, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ Indexes. The yield gap for Russian
bonds is 46 basis points below the average for  emerging markets ,
down from a 15-month high of 105 in February, according to
JPMorgan.  
 The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years with credit-default swaps rose 4 basis points to 164
on July 28, according to CMA DataVision prices. Credit-default
swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a government or company
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  
 Russia sold 1.7 billion rubles of 2012 bonds and 1.3
billion rubles of 2011 securities in two of the three auctions
yesterday, leaving it 35 billion rubles short of the 65 billion
rubles it sought in total.  
 The government “currently does not need” to borrow short-
term debt and hasn’t tapped the $39.3 billion Reserve Fund this
month that Russia uses to help finance the budget deficit,
Pankin said.  
 September  
 The government plans to sell as much as 120 billion rubles
of bonds due 2016 by late September, including 25 billion rubles
in an Aug. 4 auction, according to Ministry of Finance data.  
 Higher commodity prices and expectations the world’s
central banks will keep interest rates low support demand for
emerging market assets, including ruble bonds, said  Alexander Ovchinnikov , a vice-president of global markets in Moscow at
Troika Dialog, Russia’s oldest investment bank.  
 “The market is strong, the demand for long-term assets is
there,” Ovchinnikov said. “If things remain as they are, next
week the Finance Ministry will have no difficulty selling six-
year bonds at 7 percent yield.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Denis Maternovsky  in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Dmitry Pankin, Russia's deputy finance minister, listens to question during a conference in Moscow. Photographer: Alexander Zemlianichenko Jr/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
