-- SAIF Said to Aim to Buy $260 Million Stake in China's Huiyuan From Danone
-- Cathy Chan
-- 2010-07-28T09:12:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/saif-said-to-aim-to-buy-260-million-stake-in-china-s-huiyuan-from-danone.html

          
          
             SAIF Partners Ltd., a venture
capital fund focused on China and India, plans to buy  Groupe
Danone SA ’s stake in China’s biggest pure-juice maker for about
$260 million, three people with direct knowledge of the matter
said.  
 The Hong Kong-based fund, which manages $4 billion, is
seeking to buy Danone’s entire 22.98 percent stake in  China
Huiyuan Juice Group Ltd. , the people said, asking not to be
identified before an announcement later today. SAIF is offering
about HK$6 apiece, 11 percent more than today’s closing price of
HK$5.42, one of the people said.  
 Danone in September 2009 sold its stake in Chinese food and
beverage maker  Hangzhou Wahaha Group Co. , ending two years of
lawsuits with its partner. The Paris-based company, which has
operated in China since 1987, has since vowed to avoid joint
ventures in the country and to build operations on its own.  
 Michael Chu , a spokesman for Danone in China, declined to
comment. Officials at SAIF, which also has investments in
technology and financial services companies, declined to comment.  
 The investment would be SAIF’s biggest in China, two of the
people said.     Beijing-based  Huiyuan  is competing for beverage
sales as Coca-Cola Co., PepsiCo Inc. and other overseas drink
makers boost spending in China to expand beyond soft drinks.  
 Shares of  Huiyuan  have fallen 35 percent since the Ministry
of Commerce rejected Coca-Cola’s $2.3 billion takeover bid in
March 2009, saying the deal would have hurt competition in the
nation’s drinks market. Coca-Cola offered to pay HK$12.20 per
Huiyuan share.  
 The sale of Danone’s 51 percent stake in ventures with
Wahaha ended an almost 12-year partnership that collapsed in
2007 amid more than 30 lawsuits and accusations that Wahaha
Chairman  Zong Qinghou  unlawfully sold Wahaha-branded juice and
tea outside their partnership.  
 Danone gets more than 40 percent of its sales from  emerging
markets , a higher proportion than bigger rival Switzerland’s
Nestle SA.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cathy Chan  in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        