-- San Francisco Fed's John Williams Says Economy Will Overcome `Rough Patch'
-- Vivien Lou Chen
-- 2010-07-28T19:30:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/san-francisco-fed-s-john-williams-says-economy-will-overcome-rough-patch-.html

          
          
             The U.S. economy’s “rough patch”
in recent months, caused in part by weaker consumer confidence
and spending, isn’t the start of a sustained slide back into a
recession, said  John Williams , research director for the Federal
Reserve Bank of San Francisco.  
 “Recent economic data have been disappointing and there’s
no denying that the economy has hit a bit of a rough patch,”
Williams, 48, said in the text of a speech today in Portland.
“Although discouraging, the recent softness in the economic
data looks much more like a bump in the road” than “a swerve
into the ditch.”  
 Williams’ comments buttress the Fed’s Beige Book business
survey released today, which showed U.S. economic growth slowing
in some areas over the past two months. Figures from the
Commerce Department show orders for U.S. goods meant to last at
least three years unexpectedly dropped 1 percent in June, adding
to evidence the recovery is losing strength.  
 “We economists keep a list of words we use to describe
economic growth,” said Williams, a former senior economist for
the Council of Economic Advisers under President  Bill Clinton 
who has been the bank’s research director since last year.  
 “The silver lining is that we’re still better than
‘meager’ and ‘anemic,’” Williams said. “Thankfully, we are
still several notches above ‘double-dip recession.’”  
 The San Francisco Fed expects growth of 2.5 percent this
year and 3.5 percent to 4 percent in 2011, he said at a
community leaders’ luncheon. Unemployment should remain at its
current level of 9.5 percent through the end of this year,
dropping to about 8.5 percent in December 2011, Williams said.  
 ‘Remain Vigilant’  
 The inflation rate should remain low, falling to about 1
percent before climbing back to 2 percent, the economist said.
He added that the odds for sustained deflation, or continuously
falling prices, are “highly unlikely.”  
 “What all of this means is that the economy is still on a
recovery path,” Williams said. “We face significant risks to
this outlook and need to remain vigilant.”  
 San Francisco Fed Bank President  Janet Yellen  won the
backing of the Senate Banking Committee today, which voted 17-6
to recommend her as the central bank’s next vice chairman. She
still must be confirmed by the full Senate.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vivien Lou Chen  in San Francisco at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        