-- Sanyo Raises First-Half Profit Forecasts on Sales of Components, Batteries
-- Maki Shiraki
-- 2010-07-28T07:52:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/sanyo-raises-first-half-profit-forecasts-on-sales-of-components-batteries.html

          
          
             Sanyo Electric Co. , the battery
maker acquired by  Panasonic Corp. , returned to profit in the
first quarter and raised its profit forecasts, citing stronger
earnings from solar panels and electronic components.  
 Net income  will probably total 16 billion yen ($182 million)
in the six months ending Sept. 30, compared with an earlier
projection of break even, the Osaka-based company said today.
Operating income, or sales minus the cost of goods sold and
administrative expenses, may be 24 billion yen, more than double
the May projection of 11 billion yen.  
 Sanyo is speeding up development of next-generation solar
batteries and new materials for lithium-ion power cells, aiming
to win a bigger share of the renewable-energy market. The
electronics maker earlier this month agreed to sell its money-
losing chip operations to  ON Semiconductor Corp.  as part of its
efforts to focus more on battery businesses and improve
profitability.  
 The electronics maker cut its projection for first-half
revenue by 3.5 percent to 820 billion yen, citing the sale of
its semiconductor unit. The company kept its full-year earnings
estimates unchanged because there are uncertainties such as the
European debt crisis and foreign-exchange rates, it said.  
 Sanyo rose 4.4 percent to close at 118 yen in Tokyo  trading 
before the announcement. Japan’s benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock
Average gained 2.7 percent.  
 Chip Unit Sale  
 The company, the world’s biggest maker of rechargeable
batteries, this month agreed to sell its chip operations to
Phoenix, Arizona-based ON Semiconductor for 33 billion yen.  
 For the quarter ended June 30,  net income  was 10.6 billion
yen, compared with a loss of 18.4 billion yen a year earlier,
helped by higher sales of optical pickups, capacitors and
household solar panels in Japan, Sanyo said. The median of four
analyst estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was for 325 million
yen profit.  
 Income at Sanyo’s main  energy unit , making solar cells and
rechargeable batteries, more than quadrupled to 7.5 billion yen
from a year earlier. The electronic devices unit turned to a
profit of 6.3 billion yen from a loss of 2 billion yen as higher
sales of personal computers boosted demand for optical pickups,
the company said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mariko Yasu  in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        