-- Sarkozy to Shut Illegal French Squatters Camps, Deport Roma After Riot
-- Helene Fouquet
-- 2010-07-28T16:45:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/sarkozy-to-shut-illegal-french-squatters-camps-deport-roma-after-riot.html

          
          
             French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
will shut down squatters camps in a crackdown on French migrants
and Roma immigrants.  
 Authorities will close half of the illegal squats of
migrants, about 300, in the next three months and will deport
Roma convicted of crimes, Interior Minister Brice Hortefeux said
after a meeting with Sarkozy and law-enforcement officials.  
 Today’s meeting at the Elysee Palace followed the
destruction July 18 of a police station that was stormed by
about 50 migrants in the Cher region, central France. The
rioters were protesting the death of a 22-year-old shot by
police. The groups that represent them were not invited to the
gathering.  
 The migrants, known as “travelling people” or “gens du
voyage” in French, mainly comprise French nationals. The Roma
people are groups of nomads that come from Eastern Europe,
mainly Romania, and are more commonly known as gypsies.  
 Sarkozy’s focus on law enforcement drew criticism from
civil-rights advocates. “The president chose to racially
stigmatize the Roma and the travelling people,” the  French
Human Rights League  said in a statement on its website. It
blamed him for attempting “ethnically targeted deportations.”  
 The  National Federation of Associations in Support of
Travelling People  estimates that there are between 400,000 and
500,000 “travelling people” and 15,000 to 20,000 Roma in
France today.  
 “It is not the government’s intention to stigmatize any
community,”  Luc Chatel , the government spokesman told
reporters. “But there are certain behaviors by certain members
of the community that are unacceptable.”  
 Sarkozy’s meeting included the justice and immigration
ministers as well as the European affairs Minister Pierre
Lellouche, police chiefs and other security officials.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Helene Fouquet  in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        