-- Saudi Aramco Awards Yanbu Refinery Works to Tecnicas, Daelim Industrial
-- Anthony DiPaola
-- 2010-07-28T10:15:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/saudi-aramco-awards-yanbu-refinery-works-to-tecnicas-daelim-industrial.html

          
          
             Saudi Aramco, the biggest state-
owned oil company, awarded contracts at the planned 400,000
barrel-a-day Yanbu refinery in Saudi Arabia to companies
including  Tecnicas Reunidas SA  and  Daelim Industrial Co.   
 Tecnicas Reunidas will do work on the coker unit, Daelim
will build the gasoline and hydrocracker units and SK
Engineering & Construction Co. will work on the crude unit,
Saudi Arabia’s state oil company said today in a statement.
Tecnicas said separately it got $700 million contract.  
 “Signing these contracts represents a critical
milestone,”  Motassim Al-Ma’ashouq , Aramco’s executive director
of new business development, said in the statement.  
 Aramco is boosting refining capacity to meet demand at home
even as returns from processing crude oil have narrowed, Chief
Executive Officer  Khalid al-Falih  said in January. The plant
will cost $10 billion to $12 billion,  John Sfakianakis , chief
economist at Riyadh-based Banque Saudi Fransi said in April.  
 Punj Lloyd Ltd.  also won a contract to work on offsite
facilities while local contractors will install electrical
lines, pipelines and storage tanks, Aramco said. More contracts
may be awarded over the next few months, it said.  
 Export Flexibility  
 Saudi Arabia is seeking the flexibility to export fuels or
crude. Refiners worldwide have postponed projects and idled
plants as the global recession eroded demand and squeezed profit
margins. While the country holds the world’s largest oil
reserves and is the biggest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, it imports fuels such as gasoline
and diesel because its processing capacity is insufficient to
meet domestic consumption.  
 Saudi Aramco and Total SA have cut construction costs for a
similar joint venture refinery on Saudi Arabia’s east coast to
less than $10 billion as contracting costs fell and said last
month they had raised $8.5 billion in financing for the project.  
 The Saudi company also plans a 400,000-barrel-a-day
refinery at Jazan.  ConocoPhillips  pulled out of the Yanbu
project in April, saying it was focusing more on production.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anthony DiPaola  in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        