-- Schaeffler to Start Continental Merger in 2011 With All Assets
-- Cornelius Rahn
-- 2010-07-28T16:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/schaeffler-to-start-merger-with-continental-ag-that-will-keep-units-intact.html

          
          
             Schaeffler Group,  Continental AG ’s
debt-laden majority shareholder, may begin a merger of the two
companies at the end of next year that will keep all units
intact, Chief Executive Officer  Juergen Geissinger  said.  
 “We’ll be ready for it in late 2011,” Geissinger told
reporters in Munich last night. “At this time there are no
considerations that any of our divisions would not be part” of
a joint company, he added.  
 Schaeffler, based in Herzogenaurach, Germany, has about 12
billion euros ($15.6 billion) in debt from a hostile takeover in
2008 that left it with 75 percent of Continental’s shares.
Schaeffler isn’t talking with any investors to take a stake in
the company or buy Continental assets in exchange for debt
relief, Geissinger said. That is “not a priority,” he said.  
 Geissinger said he expects sales at the world’s second-
largest roller-bearing maker to grow more than 10 percent this
year to over 8 billion euros. The closely held company’s 2010
operating margin will probably be higher than 10 percent
compared with 5 percent last year, he said.  
 “Even when compared with Continental’s, those margins
don’t look bad at all,” said  Frank Schwope , an analyst at
NordLB in Hanover who recommends buying Continental stock.  
 Continental  fell  66 cents, or 1.3 percent, to 48.65 euros
at the close of trading at 5L30 p.m. in Frankfurt. The stock has
gained 33 percent this year, valuing the company at 9.7 billion
euros.  
 Near Capacity  
 Most of Schaeffler’s factories are running near capacity as
demand for the company’s engine components, clutches and
transmission systems is set to balloon 20 percent in Asia this
year with growth in China reaching 40 percent, the CEO said.
Asia accounts for 25 percent of revenue, he said.  
 Schaeffler announced plans last week to invest 300 million
euros in Asia over “the next few years” and build factories in
China and India.  
 There is “no rush” to repay bank credit after the company
in August extended its loans by as much as six years, Geissinger
said, adding the company’s proceeds will be used for
investments. Continental’s debt of 8.2 billion euros stems from
buying Siemens AG’s VDO automotive-electronics division in 2007.  
 Schaeffler reorganized its structure on June 28, moving its
auto and industrial-component operations, as well as its
Continental stake and about 7 billion euros of its debt, into a
new holding company. The new Schaeffler GmbH will be supervised
by a 20-member supervisory board.  
 Continental , Europe’s second-biggest car-parts supplier, is
tightening cooperation with its biggest shareholder on product
development. The Hanover, Germany-based company has developed
gasoline-engine turbochargers which Schaeffler will begin
manufacturing later next year.  
 It’s “currently not necessary” for Schaeffler to sell
Continental shares, Geissinger said. “No one has ever said we
necessarily need 75 percent,” he added.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cornelius Rahn  in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
 Oliver Suess  in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Schaeffler Group chief executive officer Juergen Geissinger. Photographer: Charles Crowell/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
