-- Serbian Parliament Approves Dejan Soskic as Governor of the Central Bank
-- Gordana Filipovic
-- 2010-07-28T16:07:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/serbian-parliament-approves-dejan-soskic-as-new-central-bank-governor.html

          
          
             Dejan Soskic , a former lecturer at
the University of Nebraska, was approved by Serbian lawmakers
for the post of central bank governor as the Balkan nation looks
to balance an economic recovery and rising inflation pressures.  
 The Belgrade-based parliament voted 129-0 in favor of
Soskic, a former financial markets adviser and supervisory board
chairman at the bank. He takes over from  Radovan Jelasic , who
announced his resignation four months ago for personal reasons.  
 “It was stressed that the government and the National Bank
of Serbia will continue to implement economic policy designed to
maintain macroeconomic and financial stability,” a statement
from the Cabinet said after a meeting between Prime Minister
 Mirko Cvetkovic  and Soskic. The two agreed to continue to
coordinate monetary and fiscal policies, while preserving full
autonomy of the central bank, according to the statement.  
 Serbia is emerging from its first recession since 1999,
when North Atlantic Treaty Organization bombing, aimed at
forcing the country’s troops to withdraw from Kosovo, destroyed
most of its infrastructure. With investment drying up because of
the global financial crisis and tax revenue waning, the country
turned to the International Monetary Fund for a 3 billion-euro
($3.9 billion) bailout loan.  
 Weakening Dinar  
 The dinar has lost more than 11 percent against the euro
this year as a lack of foreign investment and external borrowing
damped demand for the currency. The central bank has sold more
than 1.5 billion euros this year to slow the fall of the dinar,
which has lost 40 percent against the euro since October 2008.  
 The central bank kept the main interest rate at 8 percent
for a fifth consecutive meeting on July 22 after cutting it on
May 11 to the lowest since it started inflation targeting in
August 2006. The IMF has said the bank has limited room to lower
rates further and should keep a close eye on inflation risks
stemming from declines in the currency and higher food prices.  
 “Dejan Soskic is taking over responsibility for price
stability and not the stability of the dinar’s exchange rate,”
Jelasic told journalists today when asked about the challenges
Soskic faces in keeping the dinar steady. The currency’s
volatility reflects risk aversion among investors for the region
because of troubles in Greece, Hungary and Romania, he said.  
 The annual inflation rate rose to 4.2 percent in June from
3.7 percent the previous month. The central bank’s target band
for this year is 4 percent to 8 percent.  
 ‘No Magical Solutions’  
 “The measures for relaxing policy will remain the two-week
repurchase rate and the reserves requirement for commercial
banks,” Soskic said in an interview on April 20, eight days
after being nominated for a five-year term as governor. “There
are no new magical solutions.”  
 Soskic, who has also lectured at the University of Rhode
Island and the University of California at Berkley, was backed
by the Democratic Party of Serbia which is led by President
 Boris Tadic . The party also supported Prime Minister  Mirko Cvetkovic  and Finance Minister  Diana Dragutinovic  when the
government was created in July 2008.  
 Jelasic, who stressed fiscal and monetary discipline,
clashed several times with the government over public spending
as the country fought to contain inflation and lessen the impact
of the global financial crisis on the Balkan nation’s economy.  
 The key is what will happen to prices, domestic demand,
pensions and wages, as well as on the government’s fiscal plan
for 2010 and financing sources, Jelasic told state television
RTS late yesterday.  
 The dinar traded at 106.30 to the euro at 6:04 p.m. in
Belgrade.  
 The central bank sold 11 million euros on the market today
at 105.70 dinars per euro to support the dinar after it weakened
by 1 percent, Jelasic said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gordana Filipovic  in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        