-- New Serbian Central Bank Governor Says Dinar Rate is `Not Irrelevant'
-- Gordana Filipovic
-- 2010-07-28T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/serbian-central-bank-governor-says-dinar-exchange-rate-not-irrelevant-.html

          
          
             Serbian central bank Governor  Dejan Soskic , whose appointment was approved by lawmakers yesterday,
said the exchange rate of the dinar is “not irrelevant” for
policy makers.  
 The value of the currency is of concern for consumers and
businesses in Serbia because many people have loans that are
indexed to foreign currencies while their incomes are in dinars,
Soskic said last night on state television.  
 “The exchange rate of the dinar is not irrelevant for the
central bank,” Soskic told state television. “We have to see
whether it fuels prices and whether it can cause instability.
From that point of view, the National Bank of Serbia must be
vigilant.”  
 The dinar has lost more than 11 percent against the euro
this year as a lack of foreign investment and external borrowing
damped demand for the currency. The central bank has sold more
than 1.5 billion euros this year to slow declines in the dinar.  
 The central bank has kept Serbia’s main interest rate at 8
percent since May 11, when policy makers cut the rate to the
lowest since they started inflation targeting in August 2006.
The International Monetary Fund says the bank has limited room
to lower rates further and should keep a close eye on inflation
risks stemming from the currency and higher food prices.  
 Soskic is a former financial markets adviser and
supervisory board chairman at the bank. He replaced  Radovan Jelasic , who announced his resignation four months ago for
personal reasons.  
 “Dejan Soskic is taking over responsibility for price
stability and not the stability of the dinar’s exchange rate,”
Jelasic told reporters yesterday when asked about the challenges
Soskic faces in keeping the dinar steady. The currency’s
volatility reflects risk aversion among investors because of
turmoil in Greece, Hungary and Romania, he said.  
 Soskic, a former lecturer at the University of California
at Berkley and University of Rhode Island, was backed by the
Democratic Party of Serbia, which is led by President  Boris Tadic . The party also supported Prime Minister  Mirko Cvetkovic 
and Finance Minister  Diana Dragutinovic  when the government was
created in July 2008.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gordana Filipovic  in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        