-- Singapore's New Hedge-Fund Regulation Puts City `Back on Map'
-- Netty Ismail
-- 2010-07-28T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/singapore-hedge-fund-regulations-lure-managers-put-city-back-on-the-map-.html

          
          
             Singapore hedge fund startups are on
the rise after the central bank approved new rules that didn’t
impose a licensing requirement on most funds.  
 Seven new hedge funds set up in May and June, according to
 Eurekahedge Pte , after the Monetary Authority of Singapore said
in April that small funds can keep operating without a license
as part of its review. The number of new funds last year fell 13
percent to 26, the lowest since 2003, as uncertainty over
pending rule changes kept managers away, according to data from
the Singapore-based industry researcher.  
 “Singapore did not shoot itself in the foot by putting up
proposals that will kill off the business,” said Kher Sheng Lee,
a senior associate in the financial services group at
Philadelphia-based law firm Dechert LLP in Hong Kong. “While
some places are moving towards over-regulation with rigid rules
and increase in compliance costs, Singapore has attempted to go
for sensible regulation.”  
 Singapore is vying with Hong Kong for a slice of the global
$1.7 trillion hedge-fund industry as the region’s growth leads
the world. Singapore has made it easier for hedge funds to set
up shop on the island than in other Asian cities such as Hong
Kong, where hedge-fund managers face the same licensing
requirements as mutual-fund managers.  
 New Rules  
 After consulting the industry since September, Singapore’s
central bank proposed in April that managers with less than
S$250 million ($183 million) and serving not more than 30
qualified investors will be able to choose not to be licensed by
submitting a “notification” to the MAS. They and their bigger
licensed counterparts will need to maintain a minimum base
capital of S$250,000 and have at least two directors.  
 The regulator has recognized the needs of startups and
smaller managers “not to be overburdened by regulatory costs,”
said  Michael Coleman , chairman of the Singapore branch of the
Alternative Investment Management Association. Woodsford Capital
Management Pte and Pure Capital Ltd. are among hedge funds being
lured by Asia’s biggest hedge-fund center after Hong Kong.  
 The lack of clarity on Singapore’s rules throughout last
year made relocation to the city-state a difficult decision and
cost business, said  Peter Douglas , the principal of GFIA Pte,
which advises investors seeking to allocate money to hedge funds
and runs a wealth management business on the island.  
 “The proposed changes will, and already are, taking off
the brakes that were applied because of regulatory
uncertainty,” he said. “Singapore is now fully back on the map
as an attractive location for our industry.”  
 Growing Industry  
 Hedge-fund managers are currently  exempt  from holding a
capital-markets services license provided they manage funds on
behalf of 30 or fewer of what the regulator describes as
“qualified” investors. They are still subject to local rules
on securities and futures trading as well as money laundering.  
 Singapore’s hedge-fund industry grew to $43 billion at the
end of 2009, from about $10 billion in 2005, according to the
central bank. There were 320 hedge-fund managers in the city-
state last year, compared with fewer than 20 before 2001,
according to the MAS.  
 The number of hedge funds overseen by managers licensed by
the Securities and Futures Commission in Hong Kong grew to 542,
nearly five times the 2004 number, according to a September
report from the regulator. Total assets managed by the industry
stood at $55.3 billion as of March 31, 2009, representing six
times the level in 2004, according to the SFC.  
 Hong Kong  
 While Singapore is attracting more interest with clearer
regulation, it’s unlikely to overtake Hong Kong because of the
latter’s “access to China-driven flow,” said GFIA’s Douglas.  
 Hong Kong’s securities regulator “has made minimal changes
to its regulatory framework, which some will say is because it
went into this crisis with better rules and thus did not have to
resort to ‘knee jerk’ reactions,” said  Christophe Lee , chairman
of AIMA’s Hong Kong/China national group. He said he doesn’t
expect “any dramatic changes in Hong Kong.”  
 By contrast, the European Union’s draft directive on
alternative investment fund managers would limit borrowing by
funds and may restrict European investors’ access to hedge funds
based outside the 27-nation bloc.  
 U.S. lawmakers are proposing to require hedge funds that
manage more than $100 million to register with the Securities
and Exchange Commission, subjecting them to audits, and to
provide information on trades so authorities can assess systemic
risk.  
 Woodsford Capital  
 The review by the MAS, which acts as Singapore’s central
bank and regulator, is the most comprehensive of the fund-
management industry since the city-state introduced incentives
to lure alternative asset managers in 2002.  
 The new rules still need to be legislated. Managers have
about 18 months to meet the new requirements, the Singapore
branch of AIMA said in a statement on April 29.  
 Woodsford Capital, which started a macro fund in May, chose
to set up in Singapore as the increased regulatory oversight
would “provide assurance for investors” after Bernard Madoff’s
$65 billion fraud shook confidence in the industry, said Chief
Executive Officer Zhijian Wu.  
 “Singapore has been as sensible and forward thinking as
they can be about this,” said  Peregrine Cust , founder of Prana
Capital, which moved its investment team to Singapore from
London in April. “It’s a very high-margin business, it brings
lots of highly paid professionals into the local economy. It’s
not going to take them that long to take this industry to
critical mass.”  
 Revamping Strategies  
 Han Ming Ho, a partner at Clifford Chance, one of the first
international law firms awarded a Singapore license, said he is
handling more inquiries since the rules were announced.  
 “A lot of guys are revamping their strategies, a lot of
them are kick-starting their processes which they’ve put on
hold,” said Ho, who heads the law firm’s funds practice group
in Singapore.  
 London-based Algebris Investments LLP, a $1.5 billion
global financial hedge-fund manager, and  Fortress Investment
Group LLC , the $42 billion buyout and hedge-fund firm co-founded
by Wesley Edens, have registered their offices in Singapore,
according to the  Accounting and Corporate Regulatory Authority ,
which regulates businesses in the city-state.  
 Singapore, where the top tax rate for individuals is 20
percent, is also attracting more managers after the U.K.
increased the top rate of income tax to 50 percent and European
regulators work on tougher rules. The island-state was named
Asia’s most livable city in a Mercer Consulting survey in May.  
 Pure Capital, which uses computer models to pick trades, is
“seriously considering” moving its head office to Singapore
from London, with research and trading still in Wellington, New
Zealand, said Chief Investment Officer  Anthony Limbrick . The
firm had planned to move more of its operations to London last
year to be closer to investors.  
 “Europe is going to very much become the ‘old world’ and
get left behind; the hedge-fund industry will move towards Asia-
Pacific over decades to come,” Limbrick said. “We may yet be a
year or two away, but we like Singapore’s attitude to
encouraging new business.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Netty Ismail  in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Singapore is vying with Hong Kong for a slice of the global $1.7 trillion hedge-fund industry as the region’s growth leads the world. Photographer: Charles Pertwee/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
