-- Singapore Exchange Plans New Derivative Products as Trading Volume Booms
-- Jonathan Burgos
-- 2010-07-28T02:42:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/singapore-exchange-plans-new-derivative-products-as-trading-volume-booms.html

          
          
             Singapore Exchange Ltd.  plans to
introduce new derivatives products to benefit from record levels
of trading in the securities.  
 Contracts the bourse plans to introduce in the financial
year ending June 2011 include futures and options that track
European and Indian stock indexes,  Janice Kan , senior vice
president for derivatives at the Singapore Exchange, said in a
July 26 interview.  
 The average daily volume of trading in futures and options
totaled 240,292 contracts in June and 310,809 in May, exchange
 data  showed. The record daily average across a whole year was
250,651 in 2008. Average daily trading in  Hong Kong , whose stock
market is four times the size of Singapore’s, was 456,742
contracts in June, according to the Hong Kong bourse’s website.  
 “The futures market thrives on volatility and
uncertainty,” Kan said. “When there is volatility, people seek
to hedge their investments. Futures are very efficient contracts
to use for this.”  
 Historical volatility  on Singapore’s benchmark Straits
Times Index rose to a 10-month high in June as Europe’s mounting
budget deficits sparked concern the sovereign debt crisis will
spread. The gauge gained 3 percent last month following a 7.5
percent slump in May.  
 More than 10 stock and fixed-income futures and options
instruments trade actively on Singapore’s exchange, bourse data
show. Its Singapore Commodity Exchange Ltd. unit offers trading
in futures for rubber, gold and coffee. Over-the-counter trading
of iron ore, energy and freight-forward swaps are available on
the clearinghouse SGX AsiaClear.  
 Euro Stoxx 50  
 Singapore Exchange announced this week a deal with Eurex,
Europe’s largest derivatives exchange, to sell futures and
options contracts linked to the  Euro Stoxx 50 Index  in the next
six months. The contracts will be denominated in U.S. dollars.  
 The average daily volume of euro-denominated Euro Stoxx 50
Index futures traded on Eurex was more than 1.6 million
contracts in the first half, while the options had 1.2 million
contracts, Singapore’s bourse and Eurex said in a joint
statement on July 26. The contract will be the Singaporean
exchange’s first non-Asian index futures product.  
 “There is a lot of potential for this contract,” Kan said.  
 Her company will explore the feasibility of offering U.S.
stocks futures and options after the European stock-index
product is introduced, Kan said.  
 Within Asia, the bourse plans to offer options linked to
India’s S&P CNX Nifty Index, she said. Nifty futures contracts
are the third most-actively traded on the Singaporean exchange
this year, bourse  data  showed.  
 Growth Engine  
 Kan said the exchange is also planning to revive trading on
Chinese stock futures, which have not been active on the
exchange since 2008. The bourse introduced a contract in 2006
based on the  FTSE/Xinhua China A-50 Index .  
 Restrictions in China create demand for offshore trading in
Chinese stock futures, even after the country introduced a
futures contract in April, Kan said.  
 “Asia is the next growth engine for the world economy,”
Kan said. “These products allow us to benefit from the trading
flows into the region.”  
 The new products are expected to help SGX attract more
overseas investors such as so-called high-frequency traders, Kan
said.  
 High-frequency traders, who rely on computers to execute
large orders at speeds usually at less than a thousandth of a
second, now account for 25 percent of Singapore’s derivatives
trading, up from about 10 percent two years ago, she said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Burgos  in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        