-- Slovenia's Gorenje Acquires Swedish Rival Asko to Increase Market Share
-- Boris Cerni
-- 2010-07-28T08:16:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/slovenia-s-gorenje-acquires-swedish-rival-asko-to-increase-market-share.html

          
          
             Gorenje Group d.d. , Slovenia’s
biggest appliance maker, acquired Swedish rival  Asko Appliances
Group  to gain market share in the Nordic countries and North
America.  
 “With the takeover of Asko, owned by Antonio Merloni Group
of Italy, the company is gaining market share in the Nordic
countries and North America as well as Australia,” Velenje-
based Gorenje said in an e-mailed statement today. The company
didn’t specify the purchase price.  
 Asko produces high-end dishwashers, washing and drying
machines in Vara, Sweden as well as cookers, ovens and ironing
systems in Lahti, Finland, the Slovenian company said.  
 This month,  Gorenje  received an equity investment of 25
million euros ($32.5 million) from the International Finance
Corp, a unit of the World Bank. The IFC will add another 5
million euros in the second round of the capital boost foreseen
for September as well as loans of as much as 100 million euros,
Ursula Menih Dokl, spokeswoman for Gorenje said over the phone.  
 “The acquisition of Asko is in line with Gorenje’s
strategy to focus on strengthening its brand,”  Bojan Ivanc , an
analyst at Slovenia’s KD Banka d.d., said in an e-mail. “The
capital increase by IFC has definitely contributed to the
success of the takeover.”  
 Gorenje  was unchanged at 11.90 euros at 9:48 a.m. in
Ljubljana. The stock has fallen 4.7 percent this year compared
with a 16 percent decline for the  SBITOP  benchmark index.  
 The company, which is Slovenia’s second largest exporter
after the Renault SA unit in Novo mesto, said in May first-
quarter revenue increased in most of eastern Europe.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Boris Cerni  in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        