-- Software, Food Retailers Are `Value Traps' in Bank of America's U.S. Model
-- Kelly Bit
-- 2010-07-28T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/software-food-retailers-are-value-traps-in-bank-of-america-s-u-s-model.html

          
          
             Software development and food
retailing are among U.S. industries that are value traps, made
up of stocks whose valuations are low for good reason, according
to Bank of America Corp.  
 Capital markets, consumer services, financial services,
staples retailing, health-care equipment and supplies and
specialty-retail stocks also made the list, Savita Subramanian,
quantitative strategist at BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research,
said in a note dated July 26.  
 All 10 industry groups that make up the  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index  are trading at a discount to their historical price-
to-estimated-earnings-per-share  ratios . That’s similar to 2008,
when every industry except utilities was undervalued because
prices fell faster than earnings deteriorated, the note said.  
 This time, some cheap valuations are underpinned by
increasing earnings expectations, but that hasn’t hindered an
increase in the number of industries BofA Merrill considers
value traps.  
 “Valuation may be a false signal in certain pockets of the
market,” Subramanian wrote. “These industries tend to remain
trapped in this category until an external catalyst propels them
out. Roughly three out of four times, industries that are
identified as value traps have failed to outperform the market
in the subsequent month,” the report said.  
 The S&P 500 has  advanced  8.9 percent since July 2 amid
optimism that second-quarter earnings will bolster the economy.
Of the 189 companies in the S&P 500 that reported results since
July 12, about 83 percent have beaten the average analyst profit
forecast, while earnings per share have grown 60 percent,
Bloomberg  data  shows. The gauge fell 16 percent from this year’s
high in April through July 2 on concern that economic growth in
the U.S. and China is slowing, pushing the price-to-earnings
ratio down to 14.3, the lowest valuation since April 2009.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kelly Bit  at   kbit@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        