-- Duping the Families of Fallen Soldiers
-- David Evans
-- 2010-07-29T15:06:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/soldier-death-payout-practices-of-insurers-to-be-probed-by-veterans-agency.html

          
          
             The U.S.  Department of Veterans
Affairs  is investigating life insurance companies’ practice of
putting veterans’ death benefits in corporate accounts and
keeping most of the investment profits instead of paying the
survivors.  
 “The possibility that life insurance companies are
profiting inappropriately from these service members’ sacrifice
is completely unacceptable,” Mike Walcoff, acting
undersecretary for the agency’s  Veterans Benefit Administration ,
said yesterday in a statement that announced the investigation.  
 Bloomberg Markets magazine reported what has become a
standard practice for life insurance policies issued by
companies including  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU)  and  MetLife Inc. (MET)   
 Instead of paying a lump sum to survivors when a
policyholder dies, insurers keep the money in their own
accounts, pay uncompetitive  interest rates  to survivors and give
them misleading guarantees about the safety of the funds.  
 Prudential, the second-largest life insurer, handles life
insurance policies for U.S. military personnel and veterans. New
York-based MetLife, the largest life insurer in the U.S.,
provides insurance for nonmilitary federal employees.  
 “The purpose of these benefits is to assist grieving
survivors -- not to improve insurance company profits,” said
Daniel Akaka, chairman of the Senate  Committee  on  Veterans
Affairs  and a Hawaii Democrat.  
 ‘Outraged’  
 House Veterans Affairs Committee Chairman Bob Filner said
he was “outraged” that insurance practices appear to result in
“corporations retaining the assets in corporate accounts,
profiting from the interest, and failing to pass accrued
interest to surviving families.” The California Democrat said
VA officials should “demand answers” about the program.  
 The White House “supports the VA’s immediate investigation
into these unacceptable insurance companies’ practices,”
spokesman Nick Shapiro said in a statement yesterday. President
 Barack Obama  “is committed to fulfilling America’s
responsibility to our armed forces and their families,” Shapiro
said.  
 Survivors are told the death benefit is being placed in a
secure interest-bearing account, and they are given what the
company calls a “checkbook” to spend the money when they want.  
 In fact, insurers place the so-called retained-asset
accounts in their own general corporate accounts and keep most
of the investment earnings. The money isn’t guaranteed by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., and the “checks” are IOUs for
money in the insurer’s account.  
 ‘Holding Back’  
 “It’s disgusting, particularly in the case of dead
soldiers, for insurance companies to be holding back” money
from survivors,  Robert Hunter , Director of Insurance for the
 Consumer Federation of America , said in a telephone interview.  
 State insurance commissioners “should outlaw this
practice. They have the power to do it -- they can say this is
an unfair trade practice,” said Hunter, a former Texas
insurance commissioner.  
 The New York State Insurance Department  will review the
legality of the practice, Deputy Superintendent Matthew Gaul
said yesterday. Pentagon spokesman  Geoff Morrell  said yesterday
he had no comment.  
 “It’s deeply upsetting that any company would attempt to
improperly profit off of the benefits given to the families of
fallen soldiers,” said Senator  Patty Murray , a Washington
Democrat and a member of the Veterans Affairs Committee.  
 The American  Council of Life Insurers  released a statement
saying retained-asset accounts help survivors.  
 ‘Significant Benefit’  
 “Retained-asset accounts provide a significant benefit to
family members who are dealing with the emotional loss of a
loved one,” the council said. “Financial matters may not be
the first thing on their minds and retained-asset accounts
provide a secure place for life insurance policy proceeds to be
held until the money is needed.”  
 Insurers are holding onto at least $28 billion owed to
survivors, according to three firms that handle the retained-
asset accounts for about 130 life insurance companies.  
 House Armed Services Committee Chairman  Ike Skelton , a
Missouri Democrat, said U.S. troops’ survivors must be provided
more information about how to handle death benefits. He said
insurance companies should be examined to “make sure they
aren’t misrepresenting the options being offered to surviving
family members.”  
 Skelton said his committee will “assist in finding a
remedy for this problem.”  
 $1 Billion  
 Since 1999, the VA has allowed  Newark , New Jersey-based
Prudential to use this procedure in providing benefits to
survivors of fallen soldiers. In 2009, the families of U.S.
soldiers and veterans were supposed to be paid death benefits
totaling $1 billion immediately, according to their insurance
policies. They weren’t.  
 In 2008, Prudential paid survivors 1 percent interest on
their accounts, while it earned a 4.8 percent return on its
corporate funds, according to regulatory filings.  
 Prudential spokesman  Bob DeFillippo  said the company’s
Alliance Account is lawful and is an aid to soldiers’ families.
MetLife spokesman Joseph Madden said customers are happy with
the Total Control Account.  
 “The TCA affords beneficiaries security, peace of mind and
time to make an informed decision -- while earning interest in
the interim,” Madden said.  
 Hunter said the VA and Pentagon should provide accurate
information on the accounts to military personnel and should
“outlaw any insurance company that uses this practice” from
using any military facilities to sell the product.  
 The quasi-banking system operated by insurers has none of
the protections of the actual banking system, and the financial
regulation overhaul signed by Obama on July 21 didn’t address
it.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net ;
David Evans in  Los Angeles  at 
 davidevans@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Veterans Agency to Probe Insurer Handling Soldiers’ Benefits  
                       
                         
                           Sandy Huffaker/Getty Images 
                         
                         House Veterans Affairs Committee Chairman Bob Filner said he was “outraged” that insurance practices appear to result in “corporations retaining the assets in corporate accounts, profiting from the interest, and failing to pass accrued interest to surviving families.” 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     House Veterans Affairs Committee Chairman Bob Filner said he was “outraged” that insurance practices appear to result in “corporations retaining the assets in corporate accounts, profiting from the interest, and failing to pass accrued interest to surviving families.” Photographer: Sandy Huffaker/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 28 (Bloomberg) -- David Evans talks with Bloomberg's Scarlet Fu about his investigation into retained-asset accounts by life insurers and how the insurers profit from these accounts at the expense of grieving families. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 28 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's David Evans talks about the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs plans to conduct an investigation into a report that life insurance companies are putting veterans' death benefits in corporate accounts and keeping most of the investment profits instead of paying the survivors.
     The agency responded today to a report in Bloomberg Markets magazine on what has become a standard practice for life insurance policies issue by companies including Prudential Financial Inc. and MetLife Inc. Evans speaks with Carol Massar and Matt Miller on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

 
     
         Audio Download:  Goldsholle on the Invention of Retained-Asset Accounts 
     
         

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
