-- Somalia Fighting Kills 13 Civilians; African Union Plans to Bolster Force
-- Hamsa Omar
-- 2010-07-28T10:18:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/somalia-fighting-kills-13-civilians-african-union-plans-to-bolster-force.html

          
          
             At least 13  Somali  civilians died
and 40 were wounded in fighting between government forces and
the Hisbul Islam militia, amid plans by the African Union to
deploy 2,000 additional peacekeepers in the war-torn country.  
 Hisbul Islam carried out simultaneous attacks yesterday on
the presidential palace in the north of the capital, Mogadishu,
and an area in the south of the city known as Tarabunk junction,
said Sheikh Mohamed Osman Arus, a spokesman for the group.  
 “We burned a government armored vehicle and we inflicted
many loses,” Arus said in a phone interview today. “We have
cleared out many enemy positions.”  
 Somalia’s Western-backed government has been battling
insurgents, including Hisbul Islam and the al-Qaeda linked al-
Shabaab movement, for the past three years.  
 Most of southern and central Somalia has been seized by the
insurgents, while President  Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed ’s
administration controls only portions of Mogadishu, with support
from African Union peacekeepers. The country hasn’t had a
functioning central administration since the ouster of former
dictator  Mohamed Siad Barre  in 1991.  
 The AU plans to send 2,000 additional peacekeepers to
Somalia to bolster its existing 6,100-strong force, a move
welcomed by the United Nations as a sign that there is
“heightened concern” at the continental body about the Somali
conflict.  
 The deployment will take place within the next 40 days and
troops will be airlifted by U.S., European Union and Algerian
aircraft,  Augustine Mahiga , the head of the UN Political Office
for Somalia, said in a  statement  on the UN’s website yesterday.  
 Colonel Saed Abdi Hassan, a spokesman for the Somali
government forces, said yesterday’s fighting lasted about half
an hour.  
 “The terrorist elements attacked our positions but they
lost many people in the battle,” Hassan said by phone from
Mogadishu. “None of us were hurt in the battle.”  
 The casualties included women and children who were killed
when a stray shell landed in the central Bakara market, said Ali
Muse Sheikh, a paramedic for Nationlink and Lifeline Africa.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hamsa Omar  in Mogadishu via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        