-- Somali Pirates Being Deterred by Merchant Ship Defense Maneuvers, UN Says
-- Bill Varner
-- 2010-07-28T04:00:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/somali-pirates-being-deterred-by-merchant-ship-defense-maneuvers-un-says.html

          
          
             The success rate of pirates
operating off the coast of Somalia will fall to below 20 percent
this year, from 63 percent in 2007, in part due to defensive
measures cargo ships are taking, the  United Nations  said.  
 “The decrease in success is attributable to the additional
defensive measures put in place by merchant ships, their more
cautious navigational routes, and effective naval operations,”
UN Secretary-General  Ban Ki-moon  said in a report to the
Security Council.  
 The North Atlantic Treaty Organization, which runs one of
three naval operations in the region, has told cargo ships to
improve their vigilance and, if approached, run at full speed
and use evasive maneuvers and fire hoses to repel pirates.  
 The pirates concentrate on the Gulf of Aden, a chokepoint
leading to the Suez Canal that’s used by 30,000 ships a year
carrying about a 10th of world trade.  
 Attacks have spread to the Indian Ocean, as much as 1,000
miles from shore.  
 Naval operations, including participation of more than 30
nations, may be expanded by ships from four Indian Ocean island
nations and the French territory of Reunion, Comoros Foreign
Minister Fahmi Said Ibrahim El Maceli said on July 26. Comoros,
Mauritius, Madagascar, the Seychelles and Reunion are
negotiating formation of the force, which would be financed by
the European Union, he said.  
 Higher Rates  
 The Indian Ocean nations want to create their own naval
force because of the threat posed to their economies. Insurers
are charging higher rates for commercial ships that transport
goods to Comoros and its neighbors, and this creates financial
hardships for local populations, Maceli said.  
 Ban said in his report that there were 30 attacks by
pirates in the region during the first three months of 2010. He
also said their methods have become “increasingly
sophisticated.”  
 The pirates now use “mother ships” to tow smaller vessels
out to sea, global positioning satellite equipment and heavier
weapons, including rocket-propelled grenades, he said.  
 The 30 attacks in the first quarter of 2010 projects to a
year total of 120, compared to 217 in 2009.  
 Ban, at the request of the  UN Security Council , outlined
seven options for prosecuting pirates. He suggested enhancing
the capacity of the high-security courtroom opened in Kenya last
month, and six proposals for establishing regional or
international courts.  
 The secretary-general didn’t indicate a preference for any
one of the options.  
 Somalia is in its 19th year of civil war and hasn’t had a
functioning central administration since the overthrow of former
dictator  Mohamed Siad Barre  in 1991.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Varner  at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        