-- Southern Says Third-Quarter Earnings to Drop on Higher Maintenance Costs
-- Katarzyna Klimasinska
-- 2010-07-28T20:04:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/southern-says-third-quarter-earnings-to-drop-on-higher-maintenance-costs.html

          
          
             Southern Co. , the second-largest
electricity producer in the U.S., expects third-quarter earnings
to decline on higher operation and maintenance costs.  
 Profit will drop to 94 cents a share from 99 cents a year
ago, Chief Executive Officer  David M. Ratcliffe  said today on a
conference call. The Atlanta-based company is expected to earn
99 cents, the average of 11 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  
 The company is concerned about commercial customers, which
is the most profitable segment for Southern, Ratcliffe said.
Power consumption in that sector fell 1 percent in the second
quarter, Southern said today in a statement. The company
reiterated its 2010 earnings forecast of $2.30 to $2.36 a share.  
 Second-quarter profit rose, beating analysts’ estimates, as
hot weather drove power demand and the economic recovery boosted
industrial sales. Net income climbed to $510.2 million, or 62
cents a share, from $478.6 million, or 61 cents, a year earlier,
the company said. Profit was expected to be 58 cents a share,
the average of seven analysts’  estimates .  
 The second quarter in Georgia was the warmest since 1914,
according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration. Southern said industrial sales rose 12 percent
in the second quarter, reflecting improvement in the Southeast.  
 “We feel like there are legs under the economy,” Chief
Executive Officer  David M. Ratcliffe  said by phone. “The
economy, at least from the manufacturing side, is beginning to
stabilize.”  
 Higher Salaries  
 The economic slowdown led to a 4.5 percent drop in sales a
year ago. Southern increased base salaries 2 percent this year
after freezing them in 2009, said Ratcliffe, who will retire
later this year.  
 Southern owns 42,932 million megawatts of generating
capacity, enough to power more than 34 million homes, based on
an estimate from the U.S. Energy Department in Washington. The
company won a $3.4 billion conditional federal loan guarantee to
add two nuclear generators to the Vogtle station near
Waynesboro, Georgia.  
 Southern has asked Georgia for a $615 million base power-
rate increase at its largest utility, Georgia Power, in 2011.
The company also asked to raise rates in the state by an
additional $395 million in 2012 and 2013 combined. The revenue
will be used for the costs of environmental compliance and
investments in new plants, the company said on July 1.  
 Ratcliffe also said that some of the compliance
expectations in pollution-reduction rules recently proposed by
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency are “unrealistic.”  
 Ratcliffe will retire on Dec. 1, the company said yesterday
in a statement. Chief Operating Officer  Thomas Fanning , who will
become president on Aug. 1, will be his successor.  
 Southern fell 14 cents to $36.59 as of 4:02 p.m. in
composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange.  
 Exelon Corp., based in Chicago, is the U.S.’s largest power
producer.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katarzyna Klimasinska  in Houston at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        