-- South African Inflation Slows as Stronger Rand Offsets Impact of World Cup
-- Nasreen Seria
-- 2010-07-28T10:49:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/south-african-inflation-rate-slowed-for-a-sixth-consecutive-month-in-june.html

          
          
             South African inflation slowed for a
sixth consecutive month in June, reaching 4.2 percent, as a
strengthening rand offset higher hotel costs during the hosting
of the soccer World Cup.  
 Inflation  eased from 4.6 percent in May, the Pretoria-based
statistics office said on its  website  today. The median estimate
of 21 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 4.5 percent. Prices
were unchanged in the month.  
 South Africa’s hosting of the month-long World Cup
tournament from June 11 fueled prices at hotels as thousands of
fans flocked to the country. Falling food prices and a stronger
rand helped to keep inflation inside the central bank’s 3
percent to 6 percent target range.  
 “While the rand remains firm, we’re not going to see any
significant inflationary pressure,”  Arthur Kamp , an economist
at Sanlam Investment Management in Cape Town, said in a phone
interview. “The inflationary environment is benign. The door is
not closed on interest rate cuts.”  
 The Reserve Bank kept its benchmark interest  rate  unchanged
at 6.5 percent on July 22 after lowering it seven times since
December 2008. While the inflation outlook remains “favorable,”
rising wage demands and higher electricity costs risk boosting
prices, Governor  Gill Marcus  said last week.  
 Hotel Prices  
 Prices at hotels rose 17.6 percent in June from the
previous month and at restaurants a “modest” 0.3 percent
because of the World Cup, the statistics office said, while
flight costs declined 3.3 percent.  
 Inflation has slowed since last year as a bumper corn crop
and a stronger rand helped to curb price gains. The rand
strengthened 1.6 percent against the dollar in the first
quarter, adding to its 28 percent surge last year.  
 The currency was at 7.3675 against the dollar as of 12:18
p.m. in Johannesburg, little changed from 7.3638 before the data
was released.  
 “The lower inflation print is positive,” said  Ian Marsberg , a macro strategist at Johannesburg-based Absa Group
Ltd. “As we head towards the next MPC meeting, the data on the
real economy is going to be important. We think there’s been
enough stimulus from the interest rate side.”  
 Wage demands have increased in recent weeks. Workers at
Transnet Ltd., the state-owned rail and ports company, won an 11
percent pay increase following an 18-day strike in May.
Teachers, nurses and other civil servants may go on strike after
they rejected the government’s offer to raise pay by 6.5
percent.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        