-- South African Government Workers Will Strike Over Pay Dispute, Union Says
-- Franz Wild
-- 2010-07-28T14:25:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/south-african-government-workers-to-strike-over-pay-dispute-union-says.html

          
          
             South African government workers,
including teachers and nurses, may strike next month after the
government refused to meet their pay demands, labor unions said.  
 Unions representing 1.3 million workers are demanding 8.6
percent pay increases and monthly housing allowances of 1,000
rand ($136), backdated to April 1. On July 22, the government
said its offer to raise wages by 6.5 percent and pay a 750 rand
housing allowances was final.  
 Labor action will begin with marches in Pretoria and Cape
Town on Aug. 10 and escalate into a full-blown strike unless the
government makes further concessions, said Fikile Majola,
general secretary of the National Education, Health and Allied
Workers’ Union. The union is one of eight public-sector labor
unions affiliated to the Congress of South African Trade Unions,
the country’s largest labor federation.  
 “Government has seven days to sign this agreement,”
Majola told reporters in Johannesburg today. “If they don’t
they will have to bear the consequences. The unions are
committed to a disciplined and peaceful strike action.”  
 Formal wage negotiations will resume tomorrow, Dumisani
Nkwamba, a spokesman for the Ministry of Public Service and
Administration, said in a telephone interview from Johannesburg.  
 “We will be engaging with the unions,” Nkwamba said.
“The process should be allowed to run its course.”  
 ‘Meager Increase’  
 Earlier today, the South African Democratic Teachers’ Union
said its 245,000 members will vote by Aug. 6 whether to go ahead
with the strike.  
 “All the provinces overwhelmingly rejected the offer by
the employer and showed strong support for the strike,” SADTU
said in an e-mail. “Such a meager increase would mean that
teachers would never afford decent homes, let alone survive in
the midst of fuel, electricity and municipal service hikes.”  
 The Public Servants Association, which represents 210,000
state workers, will begin a two-day strike from tomorrow, and
resume the labor action after seven days should the government
fail to make an acceptable wage offer, said  Manie de Clercq , the
union’s deputy general manager.  
 “Potentially if everybody goes on strike from the PSA who
is allowed to, it will be between 180,000 and 190,000” workers
who will down tools, he said by telephone from Pretoria.  
 Essential Services  
 South African laws prevent certain categories of workers
who provide essential services, such as police officers, from
striking.  
 Other unions, which form part of the Independent Labor
Caucus, are also canvassing their members on whether to strike.  
 A four-week strike in June 2007 shut most schools and
disrupted services at some hospitals, clinics and immigration
offices, and led the government to deploy troops to quell
violent protests.  
 This strike will be “far larger” than in 2007, Nehawu’s
Majola said. “We’ll do everything in our power to ensure we
have an incident-free strike.”  
 The government, which has seen its wage bill double over
the past five fiscal years to 259 billion rand, says it must
rein in increases if it is to improve health, education and
other services.  
 Workers for state-owned logistics company Transnet Ltd. won
an 11 percent wage increase after striking for 18 days in May.
State-owned power utility Eskom Holdings Ltd. earlier this month
agreed to grant a 9 percent raise to avert labor action.  
 Inflation, which slowed for a sixth consecutive month to
4.2 percent in June, will remain within the central bank’s 3
percent to 6 percent target until the end of 2012, South African
Reserve Bank Governor  Gill Marcus  told reporters on July 22.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
 Renee Bonorchis  in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        