-- South African Teachers' Union Supports Strike; Will Poll Members Next Week
-- Franz Wild
-- 2010-07-28T10:53:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/south-african-teachers-union-supports-strike-will-poll-members-next-week.html

          
          
             A South African labor union
representing about 245,000 teachers said it will call on its
members to strike after the government refused to meet their pay
demands.  
 Members of the South African Democratic Teachers’ Union
will vote by Aug. 6 whether to go ahead with the labor action,
the union said in an e-mailed statement today.  
 SADTU is one of eight public-sector labor unions affiliated
with the Congress of South African Trade Unions, the country’s
largest labor federation, who will later today announce their
response to the government’s offer of a 6.5 percent pay increase
and a 750-rand ($101) housing allowance.  
 “All the provinces overwhelmingly rejected the offer by
the employer and showed strong support for the strike,” SADTU
said today in an e-mailed statement. “Such a meager increase
would mean that teachers would never afford decent homes, let
alone survive in the midst of fuel, electricity and municipal
service hikes.”  
 Demands  
 A four-week strike in June 2007 shut most schools and
disrupted services at some hospitals, clinics and immigration
offices, and led the government to deploy troops to quell
violent protests. The government, which has seen its wage bill
double over the past five fiscal years to 259 billion rand, says
it must rein in increases if it is to improve health, education
and other services.  
 The unions are demanding 8.6 percent pay increases and
monthly housing allowances of 1,000 rand, backdated to April 1.
South Africa’s Ministry of Public Service and Administration
last week said its revised offer would be final.  
 Workers for state-owned logistics company Transnet Ltd. won
an 11-percent wage increase after striking for 18 days in May.
State-owned power utility Eskom Holdings Ltd. earlier this month
agreed to grant a 9 percent raise to avert labor action.  
 Inflation, which slowed for a sixth consecutive month to
4.2 percent in June, will remain within the central bank’s 3
percent to 6 percent target until the end of 2012, South African
Reserve Bank Governor  Gill Marcus  told reporters on July 22.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        