-- South Korean Equities Have `Substantial Upside' on Growth, Barclays Says
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-28T02:55:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/south-korean-equities-have-substantial-upside-on-growth-barclays-says.html

          
          
             South Korean stocks  are undervalued
compared with other markets and are likely to rally as global
growth continues, according to Barclays Wealth’s  Aaron Gurwitz .  
 “We think there’s substantial upside” for South Korea’s
equities as long as the global economy avoids a double-dip or
period of “prolonged malaise,” Gurwitz, chief investment
officer at Barclays Wealth said in a Bloomberg Television
interview today. South Korea’s stocks are “cheap in valuation
terms relative to other Asian markets, global markets,” he said.  
 The country’s benchmark Kospi index has gained 5.3 percent
this year, valuing its stocks at 9.9 times estimated earnings,
the lowest in Asia after Pakistan. The International Monetary
Fund this month raised its 2010 growth estimate to 4.6
percent to reflect a stronger-than-expected first half while
warning of increased risks to its forecast.  
 South Korea’s economy grew faster than expected in the
second quarter     and the current-account surplus widened to a one-
year high in June as exports expanded. Companies from Samsung
Electronics Co. to Hynix Semiconductor Inc. reported record
second-quarter earnings as a weaker won buoyed export
competitiveness.  
 The current account is the broadest measure of
international trade, tracking goods, services and investment
income.  
 Barclays Wealth is a unit of Barclays Plc and had $229
billion in client assets as of 2009.  
 The nation’s gross domestic product will expand 6.1 percent
in 2010, higher than a previous forecast of 5.7 percent,
Barclays Capital analysts including  Wai Ho Leong , said this week.  
 -- Chua Kong Ho  in Shanghai. With assistance by Saeromi Shin in
Seoul. Editors:  Richard Frost , Linus Chua   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Chua Kong Ho in Shanghai at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        