-- Sprint Rides Evo Sales to Narrower Loss Than Forecast
-- Greg Bensinger
-- 2010-07-28T20:06:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/sprint-posts-narrower-loss-than-estimated-as-evo-smartphone-draws-users.html

          
          
             Sprint Nextel Corp.  reported a
narrower loss than analysts estimated as demand for the Evo
smartphone helped it gain wireless subscribers for the first
time in three years.  
 The second-quarter loss was 15 cents a share, excluding
some costs, the Overland Park, Kansas-based carrier said today
in a statement. Analysts projected a loss of 17 cents, the
average of 19  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Sprint started offering HTC Corp.’s  Evo  in June to compete
with AT&T Inc.’s iPhone and Verizon Wireless’s Droid for the
lucrative subscribers who sign up for monthly contracts. The
device, the first so-called fourth-generation phone, sold out in
many stores and helped Sprint gain a total of 111,000 customers.  
 “On the strength of its new 4G EVO phone, Sprint has
continued to gain postpaid share,” said  Todd Rethemeier , an
analyst at Hudson Square Research Inc. in New York, who advises
investors to  buy  the stock. “However, the biggest story this
quarter was the churn improvement,” he said, referring to the
rate at which customers leave.  
 The monthly churn declined to 1.85 percent for contract
customers -- a record low -- from 2.05 percent a year ago. Churn
for prepaid users fell to 5.61 percent from 6.38 percent.  
 The number of subscribers rose to 48.2 million from 48.1
million during the quarter. Sprint added 136,000 postpaid users
for its primary wireless network and Chief Executive Officer  Dan Hesse  forecast subscriber growth during the rest of the year.  
 Sprint  rose  1 cent to $4.84 at 4 p.m. on the New York Stock
Exchange. The shares have added 32 percent this year.  
 Faster Speeds  
 The net loss widened to $760 million, or 25 cents a share,
from $384 million, or 13 cents, a year earlier. The company had
costs of 10 cents a share related to deferred tax assets.  Sales 
fell 1.4 percent to $8.03 billion from $8.14 billion. Analysts
estimated $8.03 billion on average.  
 The third-largest U.S. mobile-phone carrier was first to
roll out a 4G network, which boasts higher data speeds, and has
seen shortages of the $199 Evo, the first phone to run on the
network. Verizon Wireless plans to start 4G service this year
and  AT&T  in 2011.  
 Hesse said on a conference call Sprint is working to get
more Evos from Taoyuan, Taiwan-based  HTC  to help meet demand.  
 “We wish we could get more devices,” he said.  
 Saturating Market  
 Carriers are trying to get customers to spend more on
wireless Web browsing and other data-intensive activities as the
market for new contract subscribers dries up. There are enough
mobile devices for more than nine out of every 10 people in the
U.S., according to the CTIA industry association.  
 AT&T, the exclusive carrier for Apple Inc.’s iPhone in the
U.S., gained 496,000 contract subscribers last quarter. Verizon
Wireless, co-owned by Verizon Communications Inc. and Vodafone
Group Plc, added 665,000 such users. Verizon Wireless will
introduce the  iPhone  on its network next year, two people
familiar with the plans said last month, potentially ramping up
pressure on Sprint.  
 Hesse has said the carrier has no plans to change its
unlimited data pricing after AT&T switched to a tiered plan and
 Verizon Wireless  has said it expects to follow suit.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Bensinger  in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        