-- Topix Index Advances the Most in Three Weeks, Boosted by Yen, Canon Profit
-- Toshiro Hasegawa
-- 2010-07-28T07:49:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/stocks-rise-boosting-topix-for-fourth-day-canon-gains-on-higher-profit.html

          
          
             Japanese  stocks  rose, sending the
Topix index to its biggest gain in almost three weeks, after
Canon Inc. reported increased profit and exporters advanced as
the yen traded near a two-month low against the euro.  
 Canon , the world’s largest camera maker, surged 5.7 percent.
Daihatsu Motor Co. soared 8.3 percent after the carmaker said
fiscal first-quarter profit surged almost sixfold. Advantest
Corp., a maker of memory-chip testers that gets almost 80
percent of its revenue overseas, jumped 5.7 percent. Mitsubishi
UFJ Financial Group Inc. led banks higher on speculation changes
to proposed capital standards will ease financing needs.  
 The Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 2.7 percent to 9,753.27
at the 3 p.m. market close in Tokyo, the biggest gain among
equity indexes in the Asia-Pacific region. The broader  Topix 
gained 2.3 percent to 865.51, its steepest increase since July 8.
More than seven stocks advanced for each that declined.  
 “The weaker yen spread a sense of security, since the
currency’s moves are what affect Japanese stocks the most,”
said  Masatsugu Okeya , a fund manager at Chiba-Gin Asset
Management Co. “Good news, including positive earnings results,
is drawing the attention of investors.”  
 The  Topix  has slumped 13 percent from its high this year on
April 15 as Europe’s debt crisis and China’s steps to curb
property prices fueled concern global economic growth will slow.
That cut the average price of stocks in the gauge to less than
16 times  estimated earnings  on July 22, the lowest level since
November 2008. They’re now valued at 16.7 times.  
 ‘Positive Surprise’  
 Canon  leapt 5.7 percent to 3,715 yen, the sharpest gain
since Dec. 24. The company said yesterday after the close of
trading in Tokyo that its net income more than quadrupled to
67.6 billion yen ($770 million) in the three months ended June
30 from a year earlier. That exceeded the median estimate of 58
billion yen, based on three analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg News. The company maintained its full-year forecast.  
 The result was a “positive surprise,”  Masahiro Shibano ,
an analyst at Citigroup Global Markets Japan Inc., said in a
Japanese-language report. “It’s good news that the company
maintained its profit forecast because there were strong
concerns that Canon may cut its outlook against the backdrop of
steep declines in the euro.”  
 Canon, today’s biggest single contributor to the Topix,
counts Europe as its biggest market by sales, and the euro has
weakened against the yen by about 14 percent this year.  
 Yen Boosts Exporters  
 The Japanese currency depreciated to as low as 114.32
against the euro today, compared with 113.17 at the close of
stock trading yesterday and near its lowest level since May.
Against the dollar, the yen weakened to 87.93 from 86.98. A
weaker yen boosts the value of overseas income at Japanese
companies when repatriated.  
 The yen has averaged 90.89 against the dollar in 2010,
putting it on course for its strongest year against the
greenback since currencies began trading freely in 1971,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Advantest, the world’s biggest maker of chip-testing
equipment, surged 5.7 percent to 2,007 yen. Kyocera Corp., an
electronic-components maker that derives more than half of its
revenue overseas, jumped 4.7 percent to 7,760 yen and was the
biggest contributor to the Nikkei’s gain. Ricoh Co., a copier
maker that gets more than half its sales outside Japan, rallied
5.4 percent to 1,228 yen, the biggest gain since May 2009.  
 Banks Advance  
 Banks extended yesterday’s gains after the Basel Committee
on Banking Supervision said July 26 that it would allow certain
assets, including minority stakes in other financial companies,
to count as capital, reversing its initial stance and easing
concern that banks will need more funding.  
 A long-term liquidity ratio that analysts estimated would
have forced banks to sell more than $4 trillion of debt also
won’t be imposed for eight years.  
 Mitsubishi UFJ, Japan’s biggest bank by market value,
advanced 3.6 percent to 433 yen.  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group
Inc. , the No. 2, increased 3.6 percent to 2,679 yen. Mizuho
Financial Group Inc., the country’s third-largest lender by
market value, rose 2.9 percent to 143 yen. They were the most-
active stocks by value in Japan.  
 “The Basel Committee eased not only its rules on lending,
but also reduced pressure on increasing capital, which is
especially positive for large Japanese banks,” said  Yutaka Yoshii , a strategist at Tokyo-based Mito Securities Co.  
 Developers Jump  
 Property companies advanced on speculation the relaxed
rules “will likely increase lending to real-estate companies
and that will boost the market,”  Yoji Otani , an analyst at
Deutsche Bank AG, said in a Japanese-language report dated
yesterday.  
 Mitsui Fudosan Co. , Mitsubishi Estate Co., Sumitomo Realty
& Development Co., and Tokyu Land Corp., Japan’s biggest
developers, all rose at least 3.5 percent.  
 Daihatsu Motor  soared 8.3 percent to 982 yen, the steepest
increase since January 2009. The automaker said net income
surged almost sixfold to 19.9 billion yen in the three months
ended June 30 from a year earlier as sales climbed.  
 This week is the peak for April-June earnings reports in
Japan, with  more than half  the companies in the Nikkei 225
releasing results, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 “Overall, corporate earnings are improving and
expectations for strong earnings will likely increase,” said
 Hiroichi Nishi , an equities manager in Tokyo at Nikko Cordial
Securities Inc.  
 To contact the reporters for this story:
 Akiko Ikeda  in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net ;
 Toshiro Hasegawa  in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        