-- Strasburg's Golden Arm Watched Closely After First Sign of Shoulder Pain
-- Barry Rothbard
-- 2010-07-28T16:35:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/strasburg-s-golden-arm-watched-closely-after-first-sign-of-shoulder-pain.html

          
          
             Stephen Strasburg  is being closely
monitored after Major League Baseball’s wealthiest rookie was
scratched before a start for the Washington Nationals with
discomfort in his pitching shoulder.  
 Strasburg, the 22-year-old right-hander who struck out 14
batters in his June 8 debut, signed a four year, $15.1 million
deal last August that gave him the richest contract a drafted
player has ever received. While warming up for last night’s game
against the Atlanta Braves, Strasburg was unable to loosen up
his pitching arm.  
 The Nationals, last in the National League East, are taking
no chances with the right arm that is one of the foundations of
their future.  
 “Given a couple days’ rest and anti-inflammatories, he
should be better,” General Manager Mike Rizzo told reporters
after the game.  
 Instead of taking the mound, Strasburg was sent for an MRI,
which revealed no structural damage to his shoulder. Strasburg
is listed as day to day with shoulder inflammation and the team
hasn’t announced when he will make his next start.  
 Miguel Batista , a relief pitcher, was rushed into a
starting role and went five innings as the Nationals beat the
first-place Braves  3-0  to raise their season record to 43-57.  
 Some fans in the crowd of 40,043 at Nationals Park booed
Batista when he was announced as Strasburg’s replacement.
Batista said he understood.  
 Beauty Contest  
 “Imagine if you go there to see Miss Universe and you end
up having Miss Iowa,” he told  MLB.com . “You might get those
kind of boos. But it’s OK. They have to understand that as an
organization, we have to make sure that the kid is fine. You
don’t want to expose him out there.”  
 It’s the first time Strasburg has had problems with his
pitching arm since signing with Washington last year for a
record $15 million package.  
 This  season , Strasburg has thrown 109 2/3 innings,
including time in the minor leagues. While pitching for San
Diego State last year, Strasburg threw 109 innings. The
Nationals have said his innings limit this season is 160.  
 Strasburg is 5-2 with a 2.32 earned run average and 75
strikeouts in 54 1/3 innings with the Nationals. He won his last
start, going 5 2/3 innings, allowing three earned runs and
striking out seven batters.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Barry Rothbard  in New York at 
 brothbard@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        