-- Sumitomo Mitsui Profit Tripled in First Quarter as Bad-Loan Costs Dwindled
-- Finbarr Flynn
-- 2010-07-28T08:18:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/sumitomo-mitsui-profit-tripled-in-first-quarter-as-bad-loan-costs-dwindled.html

          
          
             Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. ,
Japan’s third-largest bank by assets, said first-quarter profit
tripled, beating analysts’ estimates as bad-loan charges fell
and trading income climbed.  
  Net income  jumped to 211.8 billion yen ($2.4 billion) in
the three months ended June 30, from 72.8 billion yen a year
earlier, the Tokyo-based company said in a statement today.
That’s more than the 110 billion yen average estimate of five
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 Chief Executive Officer  Teisuke Kitayama  cut bad-loan costs
by 73 percent as Japanese corporate bankruptcies declined for an
eleventh month and business sentiment reached a two-year high.
Trading income surged threefold on earnings from buying and
selling bonds and the 545 billion yen acquisition of securities
and investment banking businesses from Citigroup Inc. last year.  
 “These are very strong earnings with bad-loan costs
declining, and gains on trading,” said  Shinichi Ina , a Tokyo-
based analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG. “Market expectation
for bank earnings may rise on these figures, which could result
in rising stock valuations.”  
 Sumitomo Mitsui shares, which have  gained  1.3 percent this
year, rose 3.6 percent to 2,679 yen on the Tokyo Stock Exchange
before today’s earnings announcement.  
 Ina said there is a “strong possibility” the company will
exceed its  forecast  for full-year profit of 340 billion yen.  
 Economic Optimism  
 The government on July 21 said the world’s second-biggest
economy is “picking up steadily” after  sentiment  among the
nation’s largest manufacturers rose to highest level since June
2008, according to the Bank of Japan’s Tankan survey. Corporate
bankruptcies fell by 19 percent last month from a year earlier,
according to data from Tokyo Shoko Research Ltd.  
 Sumitomo Mitsui ’s bad-loan costs fell to 31.8 billion yen
in the first quarter from 119.8 billion yen a year earlier.
Trading income rose to 96.3 billion yen from 33.5 billion yen
and fees and commissions increased to 166.5 billion yen from
123.7 billion yen.  
 “Banks’ non-performing loans are likely to trend down this
year on the improving economic outlook,”  Ismael Pili , a Tokyo-
based analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd., said before today’s
announcement.  
 Net interest income, declined 8.2 percent to 309.3 billion
yen last quarter as near-zero benchmark interest rates left
banks struggling to boost loan margins.  
 Loan Demand  
 While the economy improves and bad debts decline, waning
demand for loans in Japan is forcing Sumitomo Mitsui and rivals
including Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. to consider buying
U.S. banks to ensure profit growth.  
 Lending in Japan fell 2.1 percent in June, a seventh
straight month of contraction, to the lowest in almost six years,
according to the central bank.  
 Sumitomo Mitsui  may spend as much as $5 billion to buy a
stake in a U.S. bank in the next three years,  Hiroshi Minoura ,
head of international banking at the company’s Sumitomo Mitsui
Banking Corp. unit, said earlier this month. The bank agreed to
invest about $295 million in India’s  Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd. 
last month.  
 Sumitomo Mitsui has  raised  1.8 trillion yen in two stock
sales since June 2009 to replenish capital as global regulators
demand lenders hold more capital.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Finbarr Flynn  in Tokyo at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        