-- Superfund Aims to Raise $100 Million for New Japan Retail Hedge Fund
-- Komaki Ito
-- 2010-07-28T01:51:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/superfund-to-raise-100-million-for-japan-hedge-fund-for-retail-investors.html

          
          
             Superfund , which oversees $1.2
billion in managed futures funds, aims to raise $100 million
within a year for a new hedge fund targeting Japanese retail
investors.  
 The Superfund Blue Japan, which invests in global equities
using a computer-driven model, began its public offering today,
said  Johann Peter Santer , president of Superfund Securities
Japan Co. in Tokyo. The Cayman Island-based fund will employ a
market-neutral strategy that seeks to profit regardless of
market direction.  
 Based on theoretical trades, the fund would have had
annualized returns of 11.52 percent since August 2007 through
June this year. It starts after the  MSCI World Index’s worst
quarter  since the last three months of 2008 amid concerns
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis and a slowdown in China will
derail the global recovery.  
 “The fund has done extremely well when equity markets were
falling,” said Santer, 33, in an interview in Tokyo. “Clients
can get the benefit of equities while avoiding the downside.”  
 The fund will invest in the most liquid stocks worldwide
and sell index futures to hedge against price declines, he said.
It is Japan’s first publicly offered equity market-neutral fund
to be based on an automated trading system, which is most often
used by managed futures funds, according to Superfund.  
 The firm aims to tap into an estimated 1,400 trillion yen
in  financial assets  owned by Japan’s individual investors in a
nation where interest rates remain near zero and the benchmark
Nikkei 225 Stock Average has shrunk to less than a third of its
value since its record high in 1989.  
 Market-Neutral  
 “Japanese investors had to look for other opportunities
much earlier than other global countries” given the declines in
their home market, said Santer. “Japan has a high passion and
sophistication for systematic trading.”  
 The Superfund Blue Japan follows two other managed futures
funds -- which use computer programs to search for price signals
in futures markets ranging from equities and bonds to oil and
gold -- offered to Japanese retail investors by Superfund
Securities Japan, he said.  
 Market-neutral funds seek to profit from both rising and
falling prices by matching long and short positions in different
stocks and indexes to boost returns. The Superfund Blue Japan
will only take short positions in futures indexes, while its
long bets will be in single securities, Santer said.  
 The fund will pick investments out of 2,500 stocks
globally, based on daily trading volumes and trading
commissions, Santer said. The fund’s average number of days for
holding a single stock is about 4, he said.  
 Gold Class  
 The fund will be offered in both a yen class and a gold
class, allowing investors to track the performance of the gold
price, according to Santer. The fund in gold class has had an
annual return of 40 percent based on simulated trades since
January 2008 through June this year.  
 Superfund aims to start a similar fund in the U.S. and
Austria, Santer said, declining to give the timing.  
 Superfund, founded in Vienna in 1995, has been better known
for its managed futures funds, which invest in 150 markets
worldwide. The firm’s flagship fund, Superfund Q-AG, has
returned an average 13.6 percent annually since its inception 14
years ago through June, according to the firm.  
 Hedge funds are mostly private pools of capital whose
managers participate substantially in the profits from their
speculation on whether the price of assets will rise or fall.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tomoko Yamazaki  in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
 Komaki Ito  in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        