-- Swiss Benchmark Index Fluctuates; Syngenta Drops, Credit Suisse Advances
-- Adam Ewing
-- 2010-07-28T15:42:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/swiss-stocks-rise-credit-suisse-ubs-jump-on-banking-upgrade-abb-climbs.html

          
          
             Stocks in Switzerland fluctuated,
erasing their gains as Syngenta AG declined and a report showed
orders for U.S. durable goods unexpectedly fell in June.  
 Syngenta  slid 2.2 percent after it was downgraded at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. The pesticide maker’s drop offset Credit
Suisse Group AG’s 1.1 percent advance after Deutsche Bank AG
raised its recommendation for the European banking sector.  
 The benchmark  Swiss Market Index  was little changed down
less than 0.1 percent at 6,277.49 as of the 5:30 p.m. close in
Zurich, paring yesterday’s 1.2 percent rally. The SMI has
retreated 10 percent from this year’s high on April 15 amid
speculation that Europe’s debt crisis may derail the economic
recovery and concern that Chinese authorities are cooling their
nation’s rate of growth. The broader  Swiss Performance Index 
lost less than 0.1 percent today.  
 A report today showed total U.S. orders for durable goods -
- products meant to last at least three years -- unexpectedly
fell 1 percent in June, figures from the Commerce Department
showed in Washington.  
 Economists forecast durable goods orders would climb 1
percent, according to the median of 76 predictions in a
Bloomberg News survey. The Commerce Department revised the
number of orders in May to show a 0.8 percent drop compared with
a previously reported decrease of 0.6 percent.  
 Syngenta, EFG Down  
 Syngenta shares fell 2.2 percent to 227.60 Swiss francs,
erasing two days of gains. The chemical maker was downgraded to
“neutral” from “overweight” at JPMorgan, which said that
cost inflation was putting pressure on the company’s margins.  
 EFG International AG , the Swiss bank controlled by Greek
billionaire Spiro Latsis and his family, plummeted 20 percent to
12.55 francs, its largest decline since March 2009. It swung to
a loss in the first half after writing off 859.5 million francs
($829.2 million) on three asset managers.  
 Advanced Digital Broadcast Holdings SA , the Swiss maker of
digital-television equipment, slumped 6.5 percent to 29.70
francs, its steepest fall in a week. It said its earnings per
share were $0.50 in the first half and sales were $141 million.
The company said that a “slight delay” in bringing new
products to the market had pushed some sales into the second
half.  
 “Financial shares are getting a boost this week from the
watered-down Basel III requirements and the Deutsche Bank sector
upgrade today,”  Mads Koefoed , a market strategist at Saxo Bank
A/S in Copenhagen said today. “The new version is much less
restrictive regarding Tier 1 capital, and the sector’s rise is
thus a perfectly natural consequence.”  
 Credit Suisse, Switzerland’s second-largest bank, gained
1.1 percent to 48.11 Swiss francs, up 9.8 percent in the past
four days.  
 Banking Upgrade  
 Deutsche Bank upgraded the European banking industry to
“neutral” from “underweight,” saying that “worries over
leverage ratios, funding, and liquidity requirements are now
much reduced.”  
 The Basel Committee, which represents central banks and
regulators in 27 nations and sets capital standards for banks
worldwide, buoyed investors’ confidence after saying lenders can
count deferred tax assets and minority stakes in financial firms
as capital. The committee’s new proposals came three days after
all but seven of Europe’s 91 biggest banks passed the European
Union’s stress tests.  
 Drug Recommendations  
 Roche Holding AG, rose 1.4 percent to 137.60 francs. Its
Xeloda and MabThera medicines received final recommendations
from the U.K. agency that approves all new drugs. Roche can now
sell the medicines to the state-run National Health Service.  
 Transocean Ltd. , the owner of the Deepwater Horizon
offshore rig that sank in the Gulf of Mexico in April, jumped
2.6 percent to 50.25 francs, up 7.6 percent in the past two
days.  
 ABB Ltd. , the world’s largest builder of electricity
networks, increased 1.1 percent to 21.27 francs, paring
yesterday’s 1.3 percent slide. It was raised to “outperform”
from “market perform” at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Adam Ewing  in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        