-- Symantec Forecasts Miss Estimates on Currencies, `Cautiousness'
-- Aaron Ricadela
-- 2010-07-29T20:15:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/symantec-forecasts-miss-estimates-on-currencies-cautiousness-.html

          
          
             Symantec Corp., the world’s largest
maker of computer security software, fell the most in a year
after issuing sales and profit forecasts that missed analysts’
 estimates , evidence that customers delayed closing deals.  
 Second-quarter profit excluding some costs will be 27 cents
to 28 cents a share, compared with 35 cents, the average
estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales will be $1.45
billion to $1.47 billion, missing the $1.52 billion predicted by
analysts. Symantec reported results in a statement yesterday.  
 Some customers are keeping a lid on technology spending and
putting off orders as the economy takes longer than expected to
rebound from the recession. Overseas receipts are also being
trimmed by weakness in foreign currencies. Symantec’s results
contrast with those of Intel Corp. and Microsoft Corp., which
this month indicated rising demand for computers and software.  
 “Everyone thought the security space was going to be a
little more resilient,” said  Brent Thill , an analyst at UBS AG
in San Francisco, who  rates  Symantec “neutral.” “There are a
handful of big priorities, and vendors in those categories are
doing well, and anyone outside those categories is having some
problems.”  
 In the fiscal first quarter, net income more than doubled
to $161 million, or 20 cents a share, from $74 million, or 9
cents, a year earlier, Mountain View, California-based Symantec
said. Excluding some costs, profit was 35 cents, meeting the
average of analysts’ estimates. Sales were little changed at
$1.43 billion, missing the $1.47 billion predicted by analysts.  
 Symantec  slid  $1.64, or 11 percent, to $13.03 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading, the biggest drop since
July 2009. The shares have declined 27 percent this year.  
 Recession Fallout  
 Companies are waiting one to two quarters to buy Symantec’s
storage management and security software after purchasing new
PCs and servers, Symantec Chief Executive Officer  Enrique Salem 
said in an interview yesterday.  
 “It’s a progression -- we see that in every recession,”
Salem said. “If the strength continues at Intel, that will bode
well” for other technology companies, he said.  
 Several large deals didn’t close in the first quarter,
which ended July 2, Salem said during a conference call. Some of
the delayed contracts have since been clinched, he said.  
 Salem, in his second year at the helm, is using
acquisitions to expand beyond antivirus and data center programs
into such areas as website management and guarding stored data.  
 Last quarter, Symantec agreed to buy VeriSign Inc.’s
website authentication-services unit for $1.28 billion and said
it paid $370 million for closely held encryption companies PGP
Corp. and GuardianEdge Technologies Inc.  
 Symantec beat out McAfee Inc. to win an agreement with
Hewlett-Packard Co. to distribute Norton Internet Security
software on HP’s consumer desktop, laptop, and netbook
computers. The arrangement was announced in June.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Ricadela  in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        