-- U.K. Gives Companies Access to India's Civilian Nuclear Market, Cable Says
-- Kitty Donaldson
-- 2010-07-28T11:58:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/u-k-gives-companies-access-to-india-s-civilian-nuclear-market-cable-says.html

          
          
             Britain is to permit the export of
nuclear technology to India for the first time, opening the door
to possible contracts for companies including Rolls-Royce Group
Plc, BAE Systems Plc and Babcock International Group Plc.  
 “There is already a declaration under which a certain
amount of modest research can take place -- we want to take this
to a higher level,” Business Secretary  Vince Cable  told
reporters today in Bangalore, India. “There are British
companies like Rolls-Royce, Serco and others that could
do a large amount of business in India.”  
 The decision marks a shift in policy. India is not a
signatory to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation  Treaty  and the
previous Labour administration, which lost power in May, had
concerns technology might leak into the country’s military
program.  
 U.K. officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, said
the assumption would now be that British companies would be
granted export licenses to trade in India, subject to proper
security controls.  
 “There are obviously security sensitivities we are
conscious of, as are the Indians, but within those constraints
we want to really push ahead with civil nuclear cooperation,”
Cable said. “That would be a sector in which we want to make
progress.”  
 In 2008, the U.S. and India reached an agreement allowing
companies such as  General Electric Co.  to sell atomic fuel and
technology to India for the first time in three decades. India
was denied global civilian technology after it tested an atomic
bomb in 1974.  
 Pakistan Ties  
 The U.K. move risks straining ties with nuclear-armed
Pakistan, which has fought three wars with India since
independence from British rule in 1947, two of them over the
disputed territory of Kashmir.  
 “From the Indian perspective, the announcement is good
news obviously, because here’s another country that is keen on
investing in its nuclear business,” said H. Bhadra, executive
director at KPMG International, Mumbai.  
 “The U.S., France, Russia and Korea have already shown
interest,” he said. “But the announcement means a lot more for
British nuclear companies like Rolls-Royce than for Indian ones,
considering the size of the planned capacity addition in India
which will be about 60 gigawatts.”  
 U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  is leading a delegation
that includes 39 business leaders and four Cabinet ministers on
a two-day visit to India. The premier is seeking to sell Britain
as a place for Indian companies to do business while asking
India to create opportunities for U.K. investors.  
 No Qualms  
 Cable, a member of the Liberal Democrats, a party with a
history of opposition to arms exports, was asked by reporters if
he had any objections to supplying defense equipment to India.  
 “I don’t have any moral qualms about working to supply
defense equipment to India provided it is done within the
existing rules,” Cable said. “India is after all a democracy
with high standards of governance in that area.”  
 The U.K. is seeking to reverse a decline in its ability to
manufacture nuclear components as the pool of skills has shrunk
amid an aging workforce in the sector, the U.K. Department for
Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform said in 2008.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        