-- U.K. Gilts Advance as Higher Yields Lure Buyers on Slower Economy Concern
-- Lukanyo Mnyanda
-- 2010-07-28T13:34:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/u-k-gilts-advance-as-higher-yields-lure-buyers-on-slower-economy-concern.html

          
          
             U.K. two-year government notes rose
as the highest yields in more than two months lured investors on
bets the economic recovery will sputter, strengthening the case
for the Bank of England to keep interest rates unchanged.  
 The note reversed losses that pushed the yield within four
basis points of touching 1 percent for the first time since May.
That reduced the increase this month to 15 basis points.
Governor  Mervyn King  said there may be a “considerable” way
for the central bank to go before rates return to “normal.”
Growth in the second quarter was a “blip” and the time to
tighten policy hasn’t come yet, the National Institute of
Economic and Social Research said.  
 “If we get yields back up, there’ll be people interested
in buying,” said  Eric Wand , a fixed-income strategist in London
at 4Cast Ltd., a research company that counts central banks
among its subscribers. “The market doesn’t think we’re out of
the woods yet.”  
 The two-year yield decreased six basis points to 0.9
percent as of 2:04 p.m. in London. The yield climbed to 0.97
percent yesterday, the highest since May 18. The 5 percent
security maturing March 2012 gained 0.08, or 80 pence per 1,000-
pound ($1,560) face amount, to 106.54. The yield on the 10-year
gilt fell five basis points to 3.47 percent after reaching 3.53
percent yesterday, the most since June 21.  
 The pound was little changed at $1.5604 and was 0.2 percent
stronger at 83.21 pence per euro.  
 Gilts returned 4.5 percent this year, compared with a gain
of 5.8 for German bonds, according to indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. Treasuries also handed investors 5.8 percent.  
 ‘Ease Off’  
 “There will come a point when we will certainly need to
ease off the accelerator and return Bank Rate to more normal
levels,” King told lawmakers in London today. “I look forward
to that time because it will probably be a signal that there is
a smoother drive ahead, with the economic outlook improving in a
durable way. But I fear there is some considerable distance to
travel before we can begin to use the word ‘normal.’”  
 Gilts also gained as the country’s stocks erased an earlier
gain, making government securities attractive as a haven. The
benchmark FTSE 100 Index of stocks lost 0.7 percent, after
gaining as much as 0.6 percent.  
 The U.K.’s “growth rate will likely fall back,” Niesr
economist  Simon Kirby  told reporters in London. The U.K. economy
 expanded  1.1 percent in the three months through June, the
fastest pace in four years, data last week showed.  
 Inflation Expectations  
 The central bank has cut its benchmark interest rate to a
record low of 0.5 percent and bought 200 billion pounds of
government bonds to further depress borrowing costs and nurse
the economy into recovery after the worst global financial
crisis since World War II. Bank of England markets director  Paul Fisher  said today that slack in the economy will keep a lid on
prices.  
 Investors have reduced their inflation expectations,
trading shows. The U.K. 10-year breakeven rate, which measures
the yield difference between regular and index-linked bonds and
anticipates consumer-price growth during the next decade, was at
266 basis points today, down from a 2010 high of 325 basis
points in April.  
 The U.K.’s inflation rate was at 3.2 percent last month
from a year earlier, compared with 3.4 percent in May. It has
exceeded the government’s 3 percent upper limit since February.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        