-- U.S. Corn Met Chinese Quality Grades, Cofco Executive Says Amid Complaints
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-28T09:43:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/u-s-corn-met-chinese-quality-grades-cofco-executive-says-amid-complaints.html

          
          
             U.S. corn imported into China by
Cofco Ltd., the country’s largest grain trader, met the Asian
nation’s quality standards, said an official at the company.  
 Chinese mills complained about the quality of U.S. corn,
the state-backed China National Grain & Oils Information Center
said yesterday, without citing anyone. While some of the grain
was damaged by heat, that wouldn’t affect its usage, said the
Cofco official directly involved in a shipment. He declined to
be identified by name because he isn’t authorized to speak to
the media. A call to Cofco’s media office wasn’t answered.  
 Four U.S. corn cargoes, each weighing about 60,000 metric
tons, reached China since June, said the Cofco official, who
handled a shipment at Shekou port in southern China and sold it
on to about 20 buyers. More than 10 cargoes are scheduled to
arrive in southern China in the next several weeks, he said.  
 China ordered 1.2 million metric tons of U.S. corn as of
July 15, the most since the  1990s , according to U.S. Department
of Agriculture data. The U.S. is expected to export 49 million
tons of corn in the 12 months ending in September, the USDA
estimates. Corn traded in Chicago, a global benchmark, advanced
7.1 percent since April 27, a day before the USDA reported the
first corn sales to China by U.S. exporters since 2001.  
 While last year’s U.S. corn crop was of a lower-than-
average quality, “the new crops coming soon shouldn’t have
these quality issues,” said Li Qiang, managing director of
Shanghai JC Intelligence Co., an agricultural researcher.  
 China is the world’s second-largest corn user after the
U.S., consuming 156 million tons in 2009-10, according to USDA
estimates.  
 For Related News and Information:
Most-read grain stories: MNI GRAIN 1W <GO>
Agriculture supply & demand: AGSD <GO>
Top commodity stories: CTOP <GO>
Top agriculture stories: TOP AGR <GO>
Global corn-crop calendar: CCAL CORN <GO>  
          
          


  


        