-- Most U.S. Stocks Decline After Drop in Durable Goods Orders
-- Rita Nazareth
-- 2010-07-28T21:06:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/u-s-stock-index-futures-advance-broadcom-spectra-energy-may-be-active.html

          
          
             U.S. stocks fell, sending the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  lower for a second day, after orders
for durable goods unexpectedly decreased and the Federal Reserve
said economic growth slowed in some areas.  
 Boeing Co.  fell 1.9 percent, while  WellPoint Inc.  slumped
3.7 percent as second-quarter sales missed analysts’ estimates.
 Eastman Kodak Co.  tumbled 15 percent after reporting a wider-
than-projected second-quarter loss. Nine of 10 industries in the
S&P 500 retreated after government data showing orders for goods
meant to last at least three years declined 1 percent.  
 The S&P 500 lost 0.7 percent to 1,106.13 as of 4 p.m. in
New York. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  fell 39.81 points, or
0.4 percent, to 10,497.88. About three stocks declined for each
that rose on U.S. exchanges.  
 “Most people feel that the economy is in a soft patch and
the latest data points have been showing that,” said  Mark Bronzo , an Irvington, New York-based fund manager at Security
Global Investors, which oversees $23 billion. “The earnings
season has been good. However, investors will probably sit back
and wait until we get more clarity.”  
 The  S&P 500  has rebounded 8.2 percent since July 2 as
corporate earnings have been stronger than analysts estimated.
It yesterday briefly erased its loss for the year as earnings at
companies from DuPont Co. to Lexmark International Inc. topped
estimates and home prices increased more than forecast.  
 Aircraft Demand  
 Stock futures reversed early gains after the Commerce
Department reported that total  orders  for durable goods
unexpectedly dropped, depressed by a decrease in demand for
aircraft which is often volatile. Economists forecast total
orders would climb 1 percent, according to the median estimate
in a Bloomberg News survey.  
 Benchmark indexes extended declines after the Fed’s Beige
Book business survey showed commercial real estate and the
expiration of a tax credit for homebuyers was weighing on the
economy in some areas.  
 “Economic activity has continued to increase, on balance,
since the previous survey,” the Fed said today in its Beige
Book business survey, while noting that two of the Fed’s 12
districts reported the economy “held steady” and two said the
expansion slowed.  
 A gauge of industrial companies retreated 0.2 percent. GE
fell 0.8 percent to $16.05.  
 Boeing  
 Boeing  declined 1.9 percent to $67.32. The world’s second-
biggest commercial-jet builder said second-quarter sales
declined 9.2 percent to $15.6 billion, missing analysts’ $16.2
billion prediction.  
 Stocks also fell after a gauge of mortgage applications in
the U.S. slid last week as refinancing cooled after borrowing
costs jumped from a record low. The Mortgage Bankers
Association’s  index  fell 4.4 percent in the week ended July 23,
the Washington-based group said today.  
 “The scars remain,” said  David Rosenberg , the chief
economist at  Gluskin Sheff & Associates Inc.  in Toronto, in a
radio interview today with  Tom Keene  on Bloomberg Surveillance.
“The transition to the next sustainable economic expansion is
usually between five and seven years. The good news is that we
finished two years of this. The glass is half empty. There could
be between three to five years to go of this sort of meandering
weak growth environment.”  
 Eastman Kodak  tumbled 15 percent, the biggest decline in
the S&P 500, to $4.18. The photography company reported a
second-quarter loss of 51 cents a share. The average analyst
estimate in a Bloomberg survey was for a loss of 32 cents.  
 Slot Machines  
 International Game Technology  slumped 10 percent to $15.02.
The world’s biggest maker of slot machines reported fiscal
third-quarter revenue of $489.7 million, 2.4 percent lower than
the average of 13 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  
 WellPoint  helped lead  health-care companies  to a 1.4
percent decline, the biggest among 10 industries in the S&P 500.
The biggest U.S. health insurer reported second-quarter sales of
$14.5 billion, missing the average analyst estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of $14.6 billion. WellPoint slumped 3.7 percent
to $50.83.  
 Hospira Inc.  fell 7.2 percent to $52.72. The maker of
generic injectable pharmaceuticals and infusion devices reported
second-quarter sales that fell short of the average analyst
estimate in a Bloomberg survey and lowered its forecast for
full-year net income per share.  
 Projections for the fastest S&P 500 income growth since
1988 are helping investors overcome concern that the economy
will sink into its second recession in three years. Earnings
have topped analysts’ estimates at more than 80 percent of
companies in the S&P 500 that have reported  second-quarter 
results so far, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Travel Demand  
 Wyndham Worldwide Corp.  jumped 8 percent to $25.14, the
biggest gain in the S&P 500. The franchiser of Days Inn hotels
and Super 8 motels raised its 2010 earnings forecast after
second-quarter profit increased on rising travel demand. Full-
year earnings per share excluding items will be $1.78 to $1.88.
That compares with an earlier forecast of $1.56 to $1.71.  
 C.H. Robinson Worldwide Inc.  rose 6 percent to $64.87. The
transportation services company reported second quarter revenue
and profit that exceeded the average analyst estimates in a
Bloomberg survey.  
 The  S&P 500  may fall as much as 15 percent in the next 10
weeks and investors should use further gains in equities as an
opportunity to sell, technical analysts at UBS AG said. UBS
analysts  Michael Riesner  and  Marc Mueller  reiterated their
forecast that the U.S. benchmark gauge may decline to between
944 and 1,000, in a report dated yesterday.  
 “Anticipating another strong tactical down-leg below 1,000
in the S&P 500, we are sticking to our recent comments and would
use any kind of strength in July to sell,” Zurich-based Riesner
and Mueller wrote.  
 -- With assistance from  Tom Keene ,  Ken Prewitt  and Emily Haas-
Godsil in New York,  Adam Haigh  in London and  Julie Cruz  in
Frankfurt. Editors:  Michael P. Regan ,  Joanna Ossinger   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Shoppers look for a new refrigerator in Glenview, Illinois. Photographer: John Zich/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 28 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Courtney Donohoe reports on the performance of the U.S. equity market today.
     U.S. stocks fell, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lower for a second day, after orders or durable goods unexpectedly decreased and the Federal Reserve said economic growth slowed in some areas. Bloomberg's Pimm Fox also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 28 (Bloomberg) -- Barry Knapp, head of U.S. equity at Barclays Capital, talks about the outlook for the U.S. stock market.
     Knapp talks with Carol Massar, Jon Erlichman and Sheila Dharmarajan on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
