-- Lufthansa Operating Profit Triples on Cargo, Travel
-- Cornelius Rahn
-- 2010-07-29T16:12:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/lufthansa-quarterly-operating-profit-triples-beating-analysts-estimates.html

          
          
             Deutsche Lufthansa AG , Europe’s
second-biggest airline, more than doubled quarterly profit,
topping analysts’  estimates , as rising travel demand boosted a
recovery in ticket prices and as freight transport surged.  
 Net income was 194 million euros ($253 million), compared
with 89 million euros a year earlier, the Cologne, Germany-based
carrier said on its  website  today. The company was predicted to
earn 111 million euros, according to the average estimate of
nine analysts compiled by Bloomberg. Sales rose 33 percent to
6.9 billion euros.  
 While international air traffic rebounded 12 percent in
June, Europe is lagging behind the global recovery, figures from
the International Air Transport Association showed. Bigger rival
 Air France-KLM Group  reported its first quarterly net income
since 2008 this week, and predicted it will break even on an
operating level in 2010, excluding the costs of flight
disruptions caused by an Icelandic volcanic eruption.  
 “The market is demanding very large beats in order to
support share prices,” said  Andrew Lobbenberg , an analyst at
RBS in London who has a “buy” recommendation on Lufthansa’s
stock. “Air France had an enormous beat relative to consensus
and the stock went up 1 percent. Today Lufthansa have delivered
numbers in line with consensus, so that seems consistent with
the treatment Air France had.”  
 Shares Fall  
 Lufthansa  fell  the most in a month, dropping 4.5 percent to
12.22 euros at the close of market at 5.30 p.m. in Frankfurt.
The stock has gained 29 percent in the past 12 months, valuing
the carrier at 5.6 billion euros.  
 The company said it’s “even more confident” that it will
reach a target for a full-year operating profit that exceeds
last year’s 130 million euros, adding that the figure should be
“in line with current market expectations.” Revenue will
increase from 2009, the carrier said, without being specific.  
 Ticket prices began to rebound in the first half, with
passenger travel rising faster than capacity, Chief Financial
Officer Stephan Gemkow said in a conference call.  
 Yields, a measure of average ticket prices, rose 13 on
transatlantic routes and 12 percent on flights to Asia-Pacific
destinations in the first six months, returning almost to pre-
crisis levels, Gemkow said. They grew 0.6 percent for African
and Middle Eastern destinations and fell 2.8 percent on European
routes, he added.  
 A return of demand for premium travel in Europe is
“doubtful,” he said.  
 Passenger Unit  
 The Lufthansa-brand passenger unit flew 27.2 million
passengers in the first six months, an increase of 1.8 percent
from a year earlier, boosted by demand for connections to Africa
and the Middle East.  Passengers  at the Swiss International Air
Lines unit gained 2 percent.  
 The passenger numbers take into account the effects of
pilot strikes, the cold winter and the ash cloud that caused a
week-long closure of the European airspace in April.  
 Lufthansa’s cargo unit posted operating profit of 109
million euros in the second quarter, compared with a 62 million-
euro loss in the same period a year earlier. The company ended a
reduced work-hours program and is speeding up a return of parked
freighters to satisfy demand.  
 Wage Accord  
 The carrier is seeking to slash costs by 1 billion euros by
2012 by and is “on track” to achieve that goal, Gemkow said
today. The measures include reducing administrative jobs by 20
percent and negotiating lower wage costs with staff.  
 Lufthansa reached a wage agreement with the Vereinigung
Cockpit pilot union last month, averting further strikes which
grounded hundreds of flights in February.  
 Yet six rounds of negotiations with cabin crews on job
conditions and wages haven’t yielded an accord, and the UFO
union said July 26 that it would go on strike if no
“substantial progress” is made by the end of August.  
 Lufthansa said today the restructuring at Austrian Airlines
and BMI will affect 2010 earnings “negatively.” Austrian aims
to return to profit next year, while BMI would do so in 2012 at
the latest, Gemkow said.  
 The airline reiterated its fuel-cost projection of 5.2
billion euros for the year, compared with 3.7 billion euros in
2009. Lufthansa’s hedging contracts mean it will profit if
crude-oil prices exceed $78 a barrel, according to the CFO.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cornelius Rahn  in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Deutsche Lufthansa AG chief executive officer Wolfgang Mayrhuber. Photographer: Michele Tantussi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
