-- Munich Re Expects Second-Half Cat Bond Issues to Match First Six Months
-- Oliver Suess
-- 2010-07-28T14:52:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/munich-re-expects-second-half-cat-bond-issues-to-match-first-six-months.html

          
          
             Munich Re , the world’s biggest
reinsurer, expects catastrophe bond sales in the second half of
this year to match the $2.4 billion sold in the first six months
as buyers broaden their risk coverage.  
 “Investors are looking for a diversification of risks
after they loaded up heavily on U.S. hurricane risks in the
first half,”  Rupert Flatscher , head of risk trading at the
Munich-based reinsurer, said in an interview. “We will see more
cat bonds selling coverage for European wind storms, U.S. and
Japanese earthquakes as well as typhoons.”  
 Insurers and reinsurers sell cat bonds to hedge funds and
other investors to help cushion claims from the most costly
disasters, including earthquakes and U.S. hurricanes. Munich Re,
 Swiss Reinsurance Co.  and  American International Group Inc. ’s
Chartis property-insurance unit were among the sellers of this
year’s 11 cat bonds.  
 Munich Re reiterated its projection for 2010 sales of as
much as $5 billion, Flatscher said, adding that about $1.8
billion of existing bonds mature in the second half.  
 Some investors “simply aren’t allowed to buy more hurricane
risks,” Flatscher said. “That will lead to stronger demand for
diversifying risks, which should also lead to good prices for
issuers, triggering new transactions.”  
 All except one of the cat bonds sold this year include
coverage for U.S. hurricanes. Only the Merna Re II Ltd. bond,
sold in March to protect U.S. insurer State Farm Fire &
Casualty, exclusively covered U.S. earthquake risks.  
 Secure Collateral  
 Proceeds from cat bond sales are invested in collateral such
as government bonds or money market funds, which is used to pay
interest to investors and for payouts to the bond’s seller if a
pre-defined disaster occurs. Munich Re opposes calls from some
industry participants to make higher-return benchmarks such as
the  London interbank offered rate  the basis of the spread
offered to investors, Flatscher said.  
 “Money market funds are the most secure instrument at the
moment and I can’t understand why people want to embed hidden
credit risks into the collateral,” he said. “Banks simply want
to move the market toward higher collateral returns as that
earns them more money.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Oliver Suess  in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        