-- Turkey Stocks at Record Prices Lure Mobius With Market Discount
-- Seda Sezer
-- 2010-07-29T11:28:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/turkish-stocks-at-record-highs-lure-mobius-with-cheap-market-valuations.html

          
          
             Templeton Asset Management Ltd.’s
 Mark Mobius  plans to increase his holdings of Turkish stocks,
which rank among the cheapest in emerging markets even after
gains pushed prices to record highs.  
 Turkey’s  ISE National-100  index rose 15 percent this year,
the most among major European gauges, to an all-time peak today.
Valuations at 10.7 times reported earnings, the  highest  since
March, are 30 percent below the 15.3 times multiple for the
benchmark  MSCI Emerging Markets Index , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  
 “We already have over $1 billion invested in Turkey today
and expect to invest more,” said Mobius, who oversees about $34
billion as the Singapore-based chairman of Templeton, in an e-
mailed response to questions from Bloomberg News. “We remain
optimistic about the long term potential of the Turkish
economy” and prices are attractive, he said.  
 The ISE-100 climbed after the government said June 30 that
 gross domestic product  increased 11.7 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier and inflation slowed to the lowest
since January as the country pulled out of its deepest recession
in more than a decade. The growth rate was the fastest among the
Group of 20 major economies, excluding China, and compares with
an average contraction of 0.03 percent in 14 central and eastern
European countries, Bloomberg data show.  
 Turkey’s $620 billion economy probably expanded at an
annual rate of 9 percent to 10 percent in the second quarter,
said  Ziya Akkurt , chief executive officer of  Akbank TAS , the
country’s second-biggest publicly traded bank by market value,
in an interview with Bloomberg HT television yesterday.  
 Economic Bounce  
 “Growth is recovering very nicely and we are still
positive on Turkey as valuations are very attractive,” said
 Thomas Wilson , who runs an emerging Europe fund at Schroders
Investment Management in London and helps oversee about $23
billion. “The market re-rated to a certain extent and there is
scope for further positive re-rating.”  
 The economy is rebounding after shrinking at the fastest
pace on record in the first quarter of 2009 as the global
financial crisis reduced the capital inflows needed to curb the
country’s  current account deficit . Turkey imports almost all the
oil and gas it consumes, swelling the current account gap.  
 While government budget deficits widen across Europe,
raising concern for debt sustainability, Turkey is collecting
more taxes as the economy expands, helping to curb its own
financing gap and reduce the cost of borrowing.  
 Crisis Management  
 Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s  management of the
country’s debt, which has remained below the Maastricht criteria
of 60 percent of economic output since 2004, prompted ratings
upgrades by Moody’s Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s and
Fitch Ratings in the past seven months. The country’s debt level
may peak at 49 percent of GDP this year and decline to 48
percent by 2012, according to government projections.  
 Turkey, which needed about $55 billion in  loans  from the
International Monetary Fund from 1999 to 2008 to finance budget
deficits, abandoned plans to sign a new loan accord in March.
The country has no need for more lending, IMF Managing Director
 Dominique Strauss-Kahn  said during a June 9 interview.  
 The budget deficit in the first six months of the year
narrowed by a third from the same period of 2009 to 15.4 billion
liras ($10.2 billion), the  Finance Ministry  said on July 15. The
government’s year-end goal is a deficit of 50.2 billion liras,
or about 5 percent of GDP.  
 Projected Value  
 Stocks in Istanbul trade below the 11.5 times projected
2010 earnings for Poland’s  WIG20 Index  and 14.5 times for
Brazil’s  Bovespa .  
 The ISE-100 rose 0.6 percent to 60,734.47 at 2:05 p.m. in
Istanbul today.  
 Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS , Turkey’s biggest bank by market
value, led gains on the ISE this year, returning 30 percent
compared with a 2.7 percent gain for  OAO Sberbank , Russia’s
largest bank, and a gain of 5.5 percent for Poland’s  PKO Bank
Polski SA . Garanti trades at 10.2 times 2010 estimated earnings,
compared with 13 for Sberbank and 16.5 for PKO Bank.  Turkiye Is
Bankasi AS , Turkey’s biggest publicly traded lender by assets,
has risen 33 percent this year to trade at 9.35 times estimated
earnings.  
 Is Investment, the country’s biggest broker, raised its
recommendation to “buy” for the ISE-100 index and projected
the gauge may rally 23 percent in the next 12 months from
yesterday’s close,  Emre Sezan , a research manager at Is
Investment said in a press conference today. Sezan recommended
buying Yapi & Kredi Bankasi AS, and state-run lenders Turkiye
Halk Bankasi AS and Turkiye Vakiflar Bankasi AS.  
 Vulnerable  
 Turkey’s markets are vulnerable to any worsening in the
credit crisis in Greece, Portugal and Spain, said  Mehmet Buyukeksi , head of the Turkish Exporters’ Assembly.  
 “Some sort of event in the eurozone periphery is the
biggest risk factor for the country as it still depends on
raising money externally,” said  Paul Biszko , an emerging
markets strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in Toronto, in a
telephone interview. “Turkey still has structural issues it has
to work through.”  
 Moody’s rates Turkey Ba2, two levels below investment
grade, after lifting the country in January. Fitch raised its
rating to BB+ in December, or one step below investment grade,
and S&P boosted its ranking in February. All three cited budget
management and the strength of Turkey’s banking system, which
posted record profits last year and required no government funds
after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008.  
 ‘Transforming Itself’  
 The stock rally is occurring as banks lend more to
consumers and companies. The central bank has kept the  benchmark
interest rate  at an historic low of 7 percent and  inflation  has
slowed to a three-decade low.  
 “Turkey is in the process of transforming itself into a
very competitive and fast-growing economy, backed by manageable
inflation, low interest rates and a stable government,” Mobius
said.  
 Economic growth rates mean Turkey created as many new jobs
in the past year as the whole of Europe, Sabah newspaper
reported on July 19, citing Finance Minister  Mehmet Simsek .  
 “We continue to see Turkey leading the way in the
region,” said  Simon Quijano-Evans , head of emerging-market
research at Credit Agricole Cheuvreux in Vienna, in an
interview. “Markets are rewarding low debt and political
credibility.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Seda Sezer  in Istanbul at 
 ssezer2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Mark Mobius, executive chairman of Templeton Asset Management Ltd. Photographer: Goh Seng Chong/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
