-- Virgin Media to Start $584 Million Buyback Program After Profit Increases
-- Jonathan Browning
-- 2010-07-28T09:03:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/virgin-media-to-start-584-million-buyback-program-after-profit-increases.html

          
          
             Virgin Media Inc. , the U.K.’s
second-largest pay-television company, said it will start a
share buyback program after operating profit advanced and it
completed its refinancing program.  
 Virgin, which is preparing to roll out 100 megabits-per-
second broadband at the end of the year, will buy back up to 375
million pounds ($584 million) in stock over the next 12 months,
the company said today in a statement.  
 “The overwhelming preference was a buyback of stock rather
than a dividend,” Chief Executive Officer  Neil Berkett  said
today in an interview. “It’s a more efficient way of returning
capital to our shareholders.”  
 Virgin Media  completed a three-year refinancing program in
April to extend debt maturities and cut borrowing costs. Virgin
Media reduced borrowings due before 2013 to 325 million pounds
from 4.8 billion pounds in 2007.  
 Second-quarter operating profit advanced after Virgin Media
added high-speed broadband and high-definition TV subscribers.  
 Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization
and other charges rose to 369.7 million pounds, from an adjusted
327.5 million pounds, the Hook, England-based company said
today. An additional 25,900 cable service contracts were
recorded for the quarter.  
 Network Expansion  
 The  company  will start an accelerated buyback program of
125 million pounds and will also enter into debt and convertible
debt transactions, bringing the total capital return to 700
million pounds.  
 “We can do that and continue to expand the network and
continue to look at other options to invest our cash,” Berkett
said. The  company  will start its integrated television and
broadband service with TiVo Inc.’s set-top box technology in the
fourth quarter, ahead of a rival platform led by BT Group Plc
and the British Broadcasting Corp., he said.  
 Virgin Media is also reviewing its wholesale deal with
Deutsche Telekom AG’s T-Mobile unit, which provides mobile
services, the CEO said today. T-Mobile merged with France
Telecom SA’s Orange in the U.K. to form a new company called
Everything Everywhere.  
 “There is a good relationship and we constantly review it,
however, because clearly there are lots of other mobile
operators in this country,” Berkett said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        