-- Visa Profit Exceeds Estimates as Consumers Boost Card Spending
-- Peter Eichenbaum
-- 2010-07-28T21:01:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/visa-profit-exceeds-most-estimates-as-consumers-boost-credit-card-spending.html

          
          
             Visa Inc. , the world’s biggest
payments network, posted a fiscal third-quarter profit that
exceeded most Wall Street estimates for a 10th straight quarter
as more consumers paid with plastic.  
 Net income for the three months ended June 30 was $716
million, or 97 cents a share, compared with $729 million, or 96
cents, in the same period a year earlier, the San Francisco-
based company said today in a statement. The average estimate of
31 analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg was 93 cents. The year-earlier
results included a one-time gain of $237 million from the sale
of an investment.  
 Chief Executive Officer  Joseph W. Saunders  may struggle to
match that performance next year, when the Federal Reserve
imposes new debit-card regulations aimed at Visa and No. 2
network  MasterCard Inc.  The rules will cap “swipe” fees, or
interchange, charged to merchants on each transaction and make
it easier for rival debit networks, such as one operated by  KKR
& Co.  subsidiary First Data Corp., to gain market share.  
 “While it is too early to fully and accurately gauge the
impact of the legislation, Visa has demonstrated an ability to
manage our business through periods of change,” said Saunders,
64, in the statement.  
 Visa said it’s sticking to a 2010 forecast for net revenue
growth at the high end of an 11 percent to 15 percent range.
Diluted earnings per share are expected to grow by more than 20
percent annually this fiscal year and next, the company said.  
 Sharing ‘Pain’  
 Visa and MasterCard, based in Purchase, New York, set
interchange rates and pass the money to card-issuing banks
including  Bank of America Corp. ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and
 Citigroup Inc.  The legislation could reduce annual interchange
revenue at Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America by as
much as $2.3 billion, Chief Financial Officer  Charles H. Noski 
said this month.  
 “Banks could seek to renegotiate their contracts with Visa
and MasterCard to share the economic pain associated with lower
interchange fees, which would potentially threaten a major
revenue stream,” said Stephen Sohn, an analyst with Moody’s
Investors Service, in a July 26 report.  
 The contracts are the biggest revenue sources for the
networks. They generated $3.17 billion, or 46 percent of net
 revenue , for Visa in fiscal 2009, and $2.38 billion, or 47
percent, at MasterCard last year. Visa’s third-quarter service
revenue climbed 13 percent to $873 million.  
 ‘Powerful Force’  
 The number of processed transactions jumped 14 percent to
11.7 billion as spending on Visa credit and debit cards amounted
to $803 billion, a 14 percent increase when adjusted for
currency fluctuations, the company said. Cross-border volumes
climbed 17 percent, it said.  
 “The global shift from cash and checks to digital currency
is a powerful force that continues unabated, providing tangible
benefits to consumers, merchants, and governments worldwide,”
Saunders said.  
 That trend may mitigate the cost of the legislation, Sohn
said.  
 Card-based and electronic payments, which may have exceeded
cash and checks for the first time in 2009, will probably
account for about 64 percent of an estimated $9 trillion in U.S.
consumer transactions by 2013, according to the  Nilson Report ,
an industry newsletter based in Carpinteria, California.  
 Visa fell $1.43, or 1.9 percent, to $75.18 at 4 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock has dropped 14
percent this year.  
 MasterCard, which is scheduled to report second-quarter
results on Aug. 3, declined 1.9 percent to $210.09.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Eichenbaum  in New York at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Joseph Saunders, chief executive of Visa Inc. Photographer: Jin Lee/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 29 (Bloomberg) -- Jason Kupferberg, an analyst at UBS AG, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about Visa Inc.'s financial results and outlook.
     Visa, the world’s biggest payments network, posted a fiscal third-quarter profit that exceeded most Wall Street estimates for a 10th straight quarter as more consumers paid with plastic. Kupferberg, speaking from New York, also discusses the Federal Reserve's new debit-card regulations aimed at Visa and No. 2 network MasterCard Inc. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
