-- Voters Favor Sweeping New York State Lawmakers From Office, Poll Indicates
-- Henry Goldman
-- 2010-07-28T10:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/voters-favor-sweeping-new-york-state-lawmakers-from-office-poll-indicates.html

          
          
             New York  voters favor sweeping their
state legislators from office in the November election, a
Quinnipiac University  poll  reported today.  
 Fifty-three percent said the state senator in their
district should be ousted, with 35 percent opposed. New Yorkers
favor removing their state assembly member, 49 percent to 33
percent, the poll found.  
 Voters told interviewers “their own state senator should
be swept out of office in a general housecleaning,”  Maurice Carroll , director of the Quinnipiac University Polling
Institute, said in a statement.  
 The survey, conducted July 20-26, coincided with the state
Legislature’s failure to complete a budget due April 1. Governor
 David Paterson  ordered lawmakers to convene tonight for a
special session on revenue measures to close a $9.2 billion
revenue gap and pay for a $136 billion spending plan approved
earlier this month.  
 Seventy-five percent of voters described the entire New
York state government as “dysfunctional,” down from 83 percent
in a June 23 Quinnipiac poll, the highest measure of public
dissatisfaction in the survey’s 20-year history.  
 All 212 seats in the Legislature are open in the Nov. 2
election.  
 In the race for governor, Democratic Attorney General
 Andrew Cuomo , 52, son of former Governor  Mario Cuomo , leads
Republican former U.S. Representative  Rick Lazio , 56 percent to
26 percent, and Buffalo businessman  Carl Paladino , 55 percent to
25 percent, the poll said.  
 Lazio, Paladino  
 Lazio, 42, leads Paladino, 63, in the Republican primary
election race, 39 percent to 23 percent, with 33 percent
undecided, according to the poll.  
 In the five-candidate Democratic primary for attorney
general, 81 percent of Democrats said they didn’t know who they
would vote for, and only 3 percent could name any of the people
running.  
 When offered the names, 11 percent chose Nassau County
District Attorney  Kathleen Rice , the only woman in the race,
with no one else topping 5 percent and 73 percent undecided.  
 The other candidates are state Assemblyman Richard Brodsky
of Westchester;  Eric Dinallo , former state insurance
commissioner;  Sean Coffey , an attorney in private practice, and
state Senator  Eric Schneiderman  of Manhattan.  
 The survey of 1,165 registered voters had a margin of error
of plus or minus 2.9 percentage points. The margin was plus or
minus 5 percentage points among 380 Republicans, and 4.7
percentage points among 441 Democrats, included in the primary
election samples, poll director Douglas Schwartz said in a news
release.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Goldman  in New York City Hall at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        