-- WellPoint Joins UnitedHealth, Aetna in Raising Profit Forecasts
-- Alex Nussbaum
-- 2010-07-28T20:10:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/wellpoint-profit-rises-as-economy-keeps-patients-away-forecast-is-raised.html

          
          
             WellPoint Inc.  became the third U.S.
health insurer this month to increase its 2010 profit forecast,
stirring investor concern that state and federal regulators may
increase scrutiny of industry pricing.  
 WellPoint’s  earnings  may be at least $6.30 a share this
year, more than a prior forecast of at least $6, the
Indianapolis-based insurer said in a statement today. WellPoint,
the biggest U.S. health plan by enrollment, fell 3.7 percent in
New York trading after Chief Financial Officer  Wayne DeVeydt 
said the outlook was tempered by uncertainty over how the
health-care law passed in March will affect results.  
 WellPoint ,  UnitedHealth Group Inc.  and  Aetna Inc.  all cited
lower  medical costs  in raising forecasts, saying fewer people
visited doctors and hospitals because of the recession. With
profits growing, insurers can’t justify any rate increases or
benefit cuts next year, said U.S. Representative  Pete Stark , a
California Democrat.  
 “WellPoint and  Aetna  are on track for great years with
multibillion dollar profits,” Stark said in an e-mailed
statement. “Now it’s time for them to return those windfalls to
their enrollees in the form of reduced premiums.”  
 With regulators crafting rules to limit insurer expenses
and expand reviews of their premiums, the enhanced forecasts may
be bad news for investors, said  Carl McDonald , a Citigroup
analyst in New York. WellPoint has already canceled a rate
increase in California this year under pressure from state and
federal officials.  
 ‘Won’t Help’  
 “None of the publicly traded plans have been directly
impacted more by the increased regulatory oversight than
WellPoint,” McDonald said in a note to clients. “The company’s
strong financial results probably won’t help the situation.”  
 WellPoint fell $1.97, to $50.83, at 4 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite  trading . UnitedHealth, based in
Minnetonka, Minnesota, declined 45 cents, to $30.33. Hartford,
Connecticut-based  Aetna , which reported earnings yesterday, fell
81 cents, or 2.9 percent, to $27.55.  
 “The uncertainty is what’s causing the panic,” CFO
DeVeydt said in a telephone interview. Investors “didn’t get
the clarity they want, and it’s very challenging for us to
provide that clarity or even a direction until we get the rules
written.”  
 Earnings Rise  
 WellPoint, which operates Blue Cross plans in 14 states,
said second-quarter  net income  rose 4.2 percent to $722.4
million, or $1.71 a share. Excluding investment gains, earnings
of $1.67 beat the $1.56 average  estimate  of 17 analysts in a
Bloomberg survey.  
 Revenue dropped 6.2 percent to $14.5 billion, missing
estimates. DeVeydt said on a conference call with analysts that
the drop was partly caused by WellPoint’s decision in April to
forgo the California rate increase on customers who buy through
the individual market. The company revoked plans for increases
that would have averaged 25 percent, after state regulators
found errors in its calculations.  
 The company is losing money on the California market, where
rising medical costs make the situation “not sustainable,”
Chief Executive Officer  Angela Braly  said on the call. “We
expect that over time appropriate rates will be granted” in
most states, as officials see WellPoint’s requests are
justified, she said.  
 Enrollment Declines  
 Enrollment in  WellPoint ’s health plans fell 2.1 percent to
33.5 million, dragged down by unemployment that the company
expects to stay near 10 percent in the U.S. this year, the
company said. The insurer raised its forecast on the strength of
medical savings earlier this year, as well as share repurchases
and investment gains, DeVeydt said.  
 The outlook for profit in 2011 and beyond depends on how
the health-care law is implemented, especially a rule that
requires insurers to spend at least 80 percent of member
premiums on medical care, the CFO said.  
 “The core operations look very solid at this point,” he
said. “We are taking a cautious and conservative view for the
second half of the  year as we wait to see some of the impacts
of health reform.”  
 Even as it works to lower expense, the company expects its
medical bills to rise about 8 percent this year as the cost of
procedures rises and hospitals demand higher reimbursements,
DeVeydt said.  
 Higher Forecasts  
 UnitedHealth  raised its forecast on July 20 to $3.40 to
$3.60 a share, citing the lower medical costs, and said second-
quarter profit rose 30 percent. Aetna said yesterday that its
quarterly profit rose 42 percent and projected yearly earnings
of $3.05 to $3.15 a share, up from $2.75 to $2.85.  
 “Medical costs continued to moderate in the quarter,
increasing margins and generating outperformance,” said  Dave Shove , a BMO Capital Markets analyst in New York, in a note to
clients today. “Earnings momentum is on the upswing.”  
 Aetna fell after the insurer said a pharmacy-benefits
contract with CVS Caremark Corp. of Woonsocket, Rhode Island,
announced today, wouldn’t add to earnings before 2012. CEO
 Ronald Williams  also said the company’s lower expenses earlier
this year depended partly on one-time events, including a mild
flu season and snowstorms that kept people from visiting
doctors.  
 “We believe that the sector does have an overhang,”
Williams told  Margaret Brennan  in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “InBusiness.” “Companies aren’t trading on their
fundamental performance and until the uncertainty disappears, we
believe that’s going to be the fact.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Nussbaum  in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       WellPoint Inc. Earnings  
                       
                         
                           D. Kevin Elliott/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A WellPoint Inc. raised its profit forcast as hospital and doctors’ visits are down this year as consumers try to save money amid the recession. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A WellPoint Inc. raised its profit forcast as hospital and doctors’ visits are down this year as consumers try to save money amid the recession. Photographer: D. Kevin Elliott/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
