-- Wenger Wants Mertesacker After Campbell Snub, Mirror Says: Soccer Roundup
-- Tariq Panja
-- 2010-07-28T08:39:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/wenger-wants-mertesacker-after-campbell-snub-mirror-says-soccer-roundup.html

          
          
             The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  
 Arsenal Target Mertesacker  
 Arsenal coach  Arsene Wenger  targeted Germany’s World Cup
defender  Per Mertesacker  after  Sol Campbell  decided to snub the
Gunners for newly-promoted Newcastle, the Daily Mirror reported.  
 A bid of about 10 million pounds ($15.6 million) may be
enough to convince the 25-year-old’s club Werder Bremen to sell
the center-back, the newspaper said.  
 If Mertesacker joins he’ll compete with Johan Djourou and
Laurent Koscielny to partner  Thomas Vermaelen  in the North
London team’s defense. Campbell spent the second half of last
season with the Gunners and was offered a new one-year contract.  
 Tevez Sells City  
 Liverpool’s  Fernando Torres  would not regret a move to
Premier League rival Manchester City,  the Sun quoted  City
forward  Carlos Tevez  as saying.  
 Torres has been linked with a move away from Anfield, with
Chelsea also discussed as an alternative destination for the
Spain striker.  
 Tevez told the Sun he would “love to have him as a
teammate,” and described his own move to City as “the best
decision” he ever made.  
 City may not succeed in its pursuit of Torres after the
striker indicated to new Liverpool manager  Roy Hodgson  he wants
to stay with the Reds, the  Daily Mail  said.  
 Adebayor Suitors  
 Italy’s Juventus and French champion Marseille are
considering offers for Manchester City striker  Emmanuel Adebayor , the  Daily Mail said .  
 City may be open to a deal for the Togo national team
player if it completes the 24 million-pound signing of Inter
Milan’s Mario Balotelli, the newspaper said.  
 Parker Deal  
 West Ham will offer captain  Scott Parker  a club record
contract worth 20 million pounds over five years to convince him
to stay at Upton Park,  the Daily Mail reported .  
 The 29-year-old midfielder is to be offered the deal to
ward off interest from Tottenham, the newspaper said.  
 Arsenal Keeper Bid  
 Arsenal is considering a 5.5 million-pound offer for
Fiorentina goalkeeper Federico Marchetti,  the Sun reported.   
 Marchetti played in all three of Italy’s games at soccer’s
World Cup after replacing the injured  Gianluigi Buffon  midway
through the first match against Paraguay.  
 Liverpool Want Young  
 Liverpool’s Hodgson has agreed to a 2.5 million-pound fee
for Aston Villa defender  Luke Young , the Guardian said.  
 The Reds boss is looking to strengthen his defense
following the departure of  Fabio Aurelio  and Emiliano Inusa’s
imminent move to Fiorentina.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        