-- Westpac Says Some Basel Rules Flawed, May Constrain Australian Lenders
-- Sarah McDonald
-- 2010-07-28T04:41:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/westpac-says-some-proposed-basel-rules-flawed-may-constrain-lenders.html

          
          
             Westpac Banking Corp. , which stayed
profitable during the financial crisis without a bailout, said
some of the proposed capital and liquidity rules on banks
worldwide are flawed and risk constraining Australian lenders.  
 The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision on July 26
agreed on a reform package that included a leverage ratio for
banks globally that may become binding by 2018. The committee
 said  it aimed to develop a non risk-based measure designed to
help track the resilience of lenders.  
 “Any measure of capital that does not take risk into
consideration is fundamentally flawed,” Westpac Chief Financial
Officer  Phil Coffey  said at a conference today in Sydney, where
the bank is based. “We have to hope that at all times the
binding capital constraint for Australian banks will be risk-
weighted rather than a basic leverage capital ratio.”  
 Banking leaders in Australia, which avoided recession in
the slowdown, have said they’re concerned that global industry
standards will unnecessarily hold back domestic banks. Coffey
said the Basel committee also needs to give more thought to its
measures aimed at bolstering liquidity.  
 Australia’s banking regulator, the  Australian Prudential
Regulation Authority , will update its view on the Basel
proposals at a Sept. 6 seminar in Sydney, said spokesman
 Andrew McCutcheon . APRA, which last carried out a major stress
test on domestic banks in 2008, continuously monitors the
lenders, he said.  
 “There’s a lot of final detail that needs to be clarified,
but what’s important is this broad criteria that’s been put
forward by the Basel committee,” said  John Manning , Sydney-
based director of credit strategy at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc. “That’s been consistent with what APRA has been
trying to achieve.”  
 Changes Required  
 Westpac  shares  rose as much as 1.1 percent to A$23.95 and
traded at A$23.83 as of 2:14 p.m. local time in Sydney trading.
The stock has slipped 5.8 percent this year, while the benchmark
S&P/ASX 200 Index has dropped 7.4 percent.  
 Coffey said today that regulatory changes are needed and
Westpac, Australia’s  second-biggest  bank, supports proposals for
stronger liquidity. Still, there’s no guarantee rules will stop
a bank from collapsing once investor confidence has gone, he
said.  
 “No amount of liquid assets will necessarily prevent a run
on a bank,” he said. “There needs to be more thought given to
how liquid assets can actually be used to support a bank without
triggering the very event that they are seeking to prevent.”  
 The Basel committee’s plan for a net stable funding ratio,
whereby banks seek to match the duration of their funding with
their borrowing, is also incomplete, Coffey said.  
 “This risk-limiting approach is simplistic,” he said.
“It doesn’t need an additional regulatory overlay. There’s
still a lot more thinking to be done.”  
 A mismatch between funding and borrowing terms allows banks
to manage risk and support economic growth, Coffey said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Angus Whitley  in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net ;
 Sarah McDonald  in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        