-- WikiLeaks Secret Records Dump Stays in Legal Clear: Ann Woolner
-- Ann Woolner
-- 2010-07-28T01:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/wikileaks-secret-records-dump-stays-in-legal-clear-ann-woolner.html

          
          
             With his prematurely white hair and
his Australia-tinged English, 39-year-old  Julian Assange  has
become the face and voice of what is surely the most massive
leak of U.S. classified documents in history.  
 His online organization,  WikiLeaks , devotes itself to
government and corporate whistle-blowers and the documents they
offer. It stands as a buffer between them and whomever had the
secrets being bared, whether documents on Cayman Islands bank
accounts, video showing Americans firing on civilians in Baghdad
or  Sarah Palin ’s e-mail.  
 But none of that came close to this week’s disgorgement of
classified military documents. WikiLeaks served as conduit for
92,000 pages of material from a military insider to the New York
Times, the Guardian of London and der Spiegel magazine in
Germany.  
 Those three published front page analyses and excerpts,
which give on-the-ground accounts of the war in Afghanistan, its
failings, its brutality and its corruption.  
 Assange acts as a document launderer of sorts, an
intermediary between the gatherer of the documents, who faces
prosecution, and news organizations, which don’t.  
 What about the man in the middle? His organization? Can
they be prosecuted?  
 Better Safe  
 Assange has been staying out of the U.S., just in case. But
it’s probably unnecessary. The First Amendment’s free-press
protection shields those who merely publish classified documents
that others take.  
 The need for that protection should be obvious.  
 “Only a free and unrestrained press can effectively expose
deception in government,” the Supreme Court said in 1971 in the
 Pentagon Papers  case.  
 Prosecutors charged the leaker, military analyst  Daniel Ellsberg , but had to drop the case because of government
misconduct, like breaking into Ellsberg’s psychiatrist’s office.
And the New York Times was free to publish the 7,000-page
internal history of the Vietnam War, revealing that president
after president had lied about what the U.S. was doing in the
region and the chances for success.  
 It helped turn the tide of public opinion.  
 The Obama administration has decried the possibility that
the document dump could expose those cooperating with the U.S.
to retaliation from the Taliban. WikiLeaks and the news
organizations say they scrubbed the material to rid it of that
risk.  
 Field Reports  
 No big lies have fallen out of the mega-load of field
reports WikiLeaks made public this week, although it looks like
two administrations have made the war sound more winnable than
it probably is.  
 “This material shines light on the everyday brutality and
squalor of war,” Assange  told  der Spiegel. It “will change
public opinion and it will change the opinion of people in
positions of political and diplomatic influence.”  
 As he makes clear, WikiLeaks is more an advocacy group than
traditional news organization. Its chief aim is to make
governments and corporations more transparent, and it is
especially eager to unveil possible abuses of power.  
 But that doesn’t weaken its First Amendment protection.  
 “We are a publication,” Daniel Schmitt, a WikiLeaks
spokesman said in a telephone interview yesterday from Berlin.
However different from a newspaper, “We are a publishing
organization.”  
 U.S. Criminal Law  
 Unless the group or someone inside it solicited the
documents or helped the insider obtain them, they probably have
little to fear from U.S. criminal law.  
 Nor could WikiLeaks be forced to disclose its sources. The
group located its headquarters in Sweden because it has one of
the world’s strongest shield laws to protect confidential
source-journalist relationships.  
 “We have been legally challenged in various countries,”
Assange said in the interview with der Spiegel. “We have won
every challenge.”  
 Bank Julius Baer & Co. Ltd., based in Basel, Switzerland,
sued because WikiLeaks posted accountholder information from its
Cayman outpost amid allegations of money laundering and tax
evasion. The bank filed suit in San Francisco against
California-based Dynadot, WikiLeaks’ domain registrar.  
 The bank  won  a short-lived court ruling that attempted to
shut WikiLeaks, which had sent no lawyer to argue. Once it did,
and once free-speech groups intervened to tell the judge the
First Amendment forbids such an order, the judge  dissolved  his
earlier decision and the bank abandoned the case.  
 WikiLeaks says it doesn’t dig for dirt or urge others to.
“We do not solicit any information,” Schmitt says.  
 Don’t Ask  
 If they did, they could find themselves in a conspiracy to
violate the Espionage  Act  of 1917. That is the law that bans the
release of confidential military and national security
information. News organizations are exempt, but only if they
don’t solicit.  
 Still, the organization may begin skating closer to the
edge. It’s planning an educational effort for would-be leakers
that will say “why leaking is a useful thing” and “how to do
it properly,” Schmitt says.  
 And last year the group compiled a list of the “Most
Wanted” documents, based on suggestions from people around the
word.  
 Among the entries: the East German secret police file on
Federal Chancellor  Angela Dorothea Merkel  and a list of all
political prisoners in Egypt.  
 Suspected Source  
 For now, at least, Assange and WikiLeaks seem to be in the
clear. Not so for the 22-year-old Army intelligence analyst,
Private First Class Bradley Manning, suspected as a source.  
 Already in custody and blamed for an earlier submission to
WikiLeaks, Manning is a “person of interest” in the recent
disgorgement of secret Afghanistan reports, the Wall Street
Journal  reported  yesterday.  
 Assange, meanwhile, isn’t taking any chances. He recently
canceled an appearance in Las Vegas and said at a news
conference in London this week he had been told he would be
arrested if he came to the U.S.  
 No doubt authorities would like to invite him in for a
chat. But jail him? Not likely.  
 ( Ann Woolner  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
 Ann Woolner  in Atlanta at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        