-- WikiLeaks Founder Defends Publication of War Documents Amid Obama Concern
-- Peter S. Green
-- 2010-07-28T17:16:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/wikileaks-founder-defends-publication-of-war-documents-amid-obama-concern.html

          
          
             Julian Assange , founder of the
website that published more than 91,000 secret U.S. military
reports from Afghanistan, says he’s revealing injustices.
President  Barack Obama  says he’s concerned that disclosure of
sensitive information may harm military operations.  
 Conceived as an electronic dead-drop for confidential
documents,  WikiLeaks.org  receives material that governments and
businesses seek to keep secret and publishes them so that they
remain in the public domain forever.  
 “We want to produce positive reform,” Assange, a 39-year-
old Australian, said in a telephone interview from London
yesterday. “An efficient way to do that is to selectively go
after material that organizations are trying to conceal.”  
 Obama said yesterday he’s “concerned about the disclosure
of sensitive information from the battlefield that could
potentially jeopardize individuals or operations.” Reports on
the memos appeared July 25 in the  New York Times , Britain’s
 Guardian  newspaper and Germany’s Der Spiegel magazine.  
 Attorney General  Eric Holder  said the Justice Department
was investigating the source of the leaks. “Whether there will
be any criminal charges brought depends on how the investigation
goes,” Holder said at the U.S. Embassy in Cairo today.  
 Such leaks could have a chilling effect, leading allies to
stop sharing information with the U.S., fearing it may become
public,  John McLaughlin , a former acting director of the Central
Intelligence Agency, said in an interview.  
 ‘Element of Tension’  
 Documents alleging Pakistan’s intelligence service is
aiding the Taliban, for instance, “just may add an element of
tension that is not a welcome addition at this time,”
McLaughlin said.  
 Pakistan can’t “have any relationship with groups that are
promoting terror,” British Prime Minister  David Cameron  said
today in Bangalore, India.  
 Pakistani Foreign Ministry spokesman Abdul Basit described
the WikiLeaks documents as “unverifiable and outdated,” and
said his country isn’t “looking the other way” as its own
people aid the Taliban.  
 “We are committed not to allow our territory for terrorism
or terrorist actions anywhere in the world,” Basit told BBC
Radio 4.  
 Calls to Region  
 State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said July 26
that diplomats moved to limit the backlash by briefing Afghan
President  Hamid Karzai  and Pakistani President  Asif Ali Zardari 
the night before the documents were published. Most of the memos
date from before Obama took office in January 2009 and revamped
his Afghanistan policy in December, he said.  
 The reports highlight incidents, such as the killing of
civilians by U.S. forces, that don’t bolster the Obama
administration’s plan to send more troops to Afghanistan, said
 Paul Pillar , a former CIA analyst. Their disclosure may make it
harder for the public to learn about the war from the Pakistani
side because the government there is likely to trace how
information came out and shut down those sources, Pillar said.  
 The most notable WikiLeaks release before the Afghan cables
was a military  video  of a July 2007 helicopter attack in Iraq
that killed a Reuters television cameraman and his driver. A
U.S. soldier, Bradley Manning, was charged by military
prosecutors July 5 with leaking the video, released under the
title “collateral murder.”  
 Hacking Charge  
 Assange was charged with computer hacking in Australia in
1996, a decade before he founded  WikiLeaks . He received a “good
behavior” bond, his attorney at the time, Paul Galbally, said
in an interview. The bond is a form of probation. Galbally
refused to give further details, and Assange refused to talk
about his past.  
 WikiLeaks claims a full-time staff of five, backed by
volunteers. Assange funded the organization until this year and
its money now comes in small donations from individuals, with
nothing from foundations or governments, he said in the
interview. WikiLeaks is registered as a non-profit in Germany
and as a library in Australia, he said.  
 Whistleblowers are protected and given anonymity through
computer screens and filters that strip identifying information
from leaked documents and the documents are stored on servers in
countries whose laws protect leaks, including Sweden and
Belgium, Assange said.  
 Legal Issues  
 Not knowing where WikiLeaks’ information comes from may be
the site’s best legal protection, said  Kurt Wimmer , an attorney
who specializes in press freedom at Covington & Burling in
Washington.  
 Criminal proceedings would require that Assange be in a
country willing to arrest him for violating another country’s
information disclosure laws, said Wimmer.  
 “The process Julian would be likely to receive would be a
subpoena seeking the identity of a leaker,” said Wimmer.  
 Earlier WikiLeaks publications include documents on
Iceland’s economic  crisis  including internal U.S. diplomatic
cables, Australian ambulance  deployment  levels and a U.S.
government handbook for treating prisoners at Guantanamo Bay. It
also published personal e-mails of Republican vice-presidential
candidate  Sarah Palin  in 2008.  
 Assange calls WikiLeaks “a library of suppressed history”
and claims to operate in the tradition of the 1971 release of
the Vietnam-era  Pentagon Papers , published by the New York
Times. The U.S. Supreme Court  rejected  the government’s bid to
bar publication.  
 ‘Clear Distinction’  
 “In terms of determining responsibility, I see a pretty
clear distinction between documents leaked to news organizations
and documents posted in raw form,” said Wimmer.  
 The Times  wrote  that it decided not to reveal information
that could endanger lives or ongoing operations, and agreed not
to publish the full text of the Afghan war memos.  
 “That to me is a fundamentally different function than
saying come to the site and post what you want,” said Wimmer.  
 WikiLeaks won’t publish anything that could put anyone or
any operation in danger, vetting every item it posts through a
“harm-minimalization process,” Assange said in an  interview 
with Britain’s Channel 4 television that aired July 25.  
 As for the Afghanistan information, “We can guess that it
probably came from somewhere in the U.S. military or the U.S.
government, from someone who is disaffected,” Assange said.  
 “Handling that type of information comes with certain
responsibilities, and if you don’t meet those responsibilities
you’re held liable,” White House spokesman  Robert Gibbs  told
reporters yesterday.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter S. Green  in Washington at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Australian founder of whistleblowing website, 'WikiLeaks', Julian Assange, speaks to media after giving a press conference in London. Photographer: Leon Neal/AFP/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 28 (Bloomberg) -- William Cohen, chief executive officer of the Cohen Group and a former U.S. defense secretary, discusses WikiLeaks.org's publication of more than 91,000 secret U.S. military reports from Afghanistan.
     Cohen, speaking from Washington, talks with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg Television's "In Business." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
