-- TMX Group Second-Quarter Net Income Increases 1.5% on Derivatives Trading
-- Doug Alexander
-- 2010-07-28T20:21:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/tmx-group-second-quarter-net-income-increases-1-5-on-derivatives-trading.html

          
          
             TMX Group Inc. , owner of the Toronto
Stock Exchange, said profit rose for a second straight quarter
on a surge in derivatives trading on its Montreal bourse. The
stock had its biggest decline in almost six months after
earnings missed estimates.  
 Net income increased 1.5 percent to C$47.6 million ($46.1
million), or 64 cents a share, from C$46.9 million, or 63 cents,
a year earlier, Toronto-based TMX Group said today in a
statement. Profit missed the 65 cent-a-share  average estimate  of
six analysts polled by  Bloomberg . Revenue rose 3.3 percent to
C$142.7 million.  
 “Derivatives offset the weakness in equities trading,”
National Bank Financial analyst  Shubha Khan  said today in an
interview. “The environment for listing fees has also improved
and the fear I had in regards to equities trading may have been
a little overblown.”  
 TMX benefited from a 40 percent rise in trading at its
Montreal Exchange unit, fueled by its main interest-rate
contract, which helped offset a slump in equity trading.
Speculation on interest rates and market volatility sparked by
concern about European debt drove the surge, Khan said.  
 TMX  fell  1.9 percent to C$28.75 at 4:10 p.m. Toronto time,
its biggest decline since Feb. 4. The stock has retreated 13
percent this year.  
 Trading Fees Fall  
 Trading and related fees dropped 4.4 percent to C$58.5
million as a decline in equities trading revenue offset gains
from the derivatives and energy business. Trading on the Toronto
Stock Exchange and TSX Venture Exchange fell 7.2 percent to
about 40.9 billion shares for the period, according to TMX
statistics.  
 The Standard & Poor’s/ TSX  Composite Index, the benchmark
measure of Canadian equities, declined 6.2 percent in the second
quarter, breaking a four-quarter streak of gains.  
 The Group of 20 summit, the June 26-27 gathering of world
leaders in Toronto, may have hurt trading volumes in June
compared with May, TMX Chief Executive Officer  Thomas Kloet  said
in a conference call.  
 “We believe that the decrease was largely due to the
displaced trading community during the week prior to the G-20
meeting,” Kloet said. “We’re also hearing that volumes are
down because of a World Cup effect.”  
 Montreal Exchange  
 The number of derivatives and options contracts on the
Montreal Exchange rose 40 percent to almost 12 million,
according to company statistics. Three-month Canadian Bankers’
Acceptance Futures contract, or BAX, more than doubled to 3.76
million contracts from a year ago. Boston Options Exchange
trading fell 39 percent to 23.8 million contracts.  
 Reported listing fees rose 13 percent to C$40.6 million,
while the value of equity sales such as initial public offerings
on both the Toronto Stock Exchange and TSX Venture Exchange was
unchanged from a year earlier.  
 TMX had 72 percent of the Canadian market for equities
trading at the end of June, down from 87 percent a year earlier,
according to  statistics  from the Investment Industry Regulatory
Organization of Canada. Alpha Trading Systems, whose owners
include the nation’s six largest banks, had almost 19 percent of
the market by shares traded, up from 7.6 percent a year ago.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Doug Alexander  in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        