-- Yellen, Diamond, Raskin Win Senate Panel's Support to Become Fed Governors
-- Scott Lanman
-- 2010-07-28T19:55:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/yellen-diamond-raskin-win-senate-panel-s-support-to-become-fed-governors.html

          
          
             The U.S. Senate Banking Committee
backed the nomination of three candidates for the  Federal
Reserve  Board, including San Francisco Fed President  Janet Yellen  for vice chairman.  
 The panel’s decisions advanced the three a step closer to a
vote by the full Senate necessary for confirmation. Yellen’s
candidacy for vice chairman was recommended in a 17-6 vote. The
panel voted 16-7 in favor of  Peter Diamond , a Massachusetts
Institute of Technology economics professor, and 21-2 for  Sarah Bloom Raskin , Maryland’s commissioner of financial regulation.
All of the opposition came from Republican committee members.  
 Senate approval of the nominees would give the Fed’s board
a full seven-member complement for the first time in more than
four years and help Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  devise policies
to bring down unemployment and carry out expanded bank-
supervision duties.  Christopher Dodd , the Connecticut Democrat
who chairs the committee, said he hopes for a final vote in
September.  
 “They have the potential to make important contributions
to the Federal Reserve in the years ahead,” Dodd said today
before the vote.  
 Alabama Senator  Richard Shelby , the panel’s senior
Republican, backed Raskin while voting against Yellen and
Diamond.  
 Restrain Excess  
 “President Yellen presided over a regional housing bubble
and failed to restrain the excesses,” and Diamond, while a
“skilled economist,” may not be qualified to make decisions on
monetary policy, Shelby said.  
 Yellen defended her record in a written response to Shelby
this month, saying that in 2004 the San Francisco Fed became
“concerned with relaxed underwriting standards and growing
commercial real estate concentrations at commercial banks.”  
 The yield on the current five-year note dropped 9 basis
points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 1.70 percent at 3:40 p.m.
in New York, according to BGCantor Market Data. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.7 percent to 1,105.62.  
 Diamond, 70, a specialist in taxation and behavioral
economics, has written widely on overhauling entitlement
programs. He said in a separate response to Shelby that he has
done “considerable research” on government’s role in “helping
markets to improve the bearing of risks in the economy.”  
 The Fed last month reiterated its pledge to keep its
benchmark rate close to zero for an “extended period,” and
Bernanke signaled in congressional testimony last week that
signs of deeper economic weakness would be needed to justify
additional monetary stimulus.  
 Creating Jobs  
 In a July 15 confirmation hearing before the banking panel,
Yellen said the central bank must focus on creating jobs and
reducing “painfully high” unemployment, which was 9.5 percent
in June. Raskin said the Fed’s achievement of stable prices is
“only a partial victory when many American households continue
to face the perils of unemployment.”  
 Diamond favors “maintenance of the current level of ease”
in monetary policy, “with vigilance to circumstances that might
call for a change in either direction,” according to his
responses to written follow-up questions from Shelby.  
 In January, the Senate voted 70-30 to approve Bernanke for
a second four-year term, the most opposition to a Fed chairman
since the office first became subject to Senate confirmation in
1978. The Banking Committee voted 16-7 in December to recommend
approval to the full chamber. Shelby opposed Bernanke in both
votes.  
 Three Nominations  
 President  Barack Obama  announced the three Fed nominations
in April. He previously appointed  Daniel Tarullo  as governor in
January 2009 and re-appointed Bernanke to a second term that
began in February.  
 Yellen, 63, would join the Fed board as the member with the
most years of experience as a central banker. She served as a
Fed governor from 1994 to 1997 under former Chairman  Alan Greenspan  and has led the San Francisco Fed since 2004, making
her the only policy maker since  Paul Volcker  to hold regional
and Washington-based roles.  
 Under a four-year term as vice chairman, Yellen would
preside over board meetings in Bernanke’s absence and hold a
permanent vote on monetary policy. Yellen would replace  Donald Kohn , a 40-year veteran of the central bank whose June 23
retirement date was pushed back while Yellen’s confirmation was
pending. She would get a separate term as governor through 2024;
Diamond’s term would end in 2014 and Raskin’s in 2016.  
 Raskin, a 49-year-old attorney, was appointed in 2007 as
Maryland’s top banking regulator. She was previously managing
director of Promontory Financial Group, a consulting firm, and
worked at the New York Fed and as a counsel for the Senate
Banking Committee.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        