-- Yen Rises as Evidence of Slowdown Deters Demand for Higher-Yielding Assets
-- Yoshiaki Nohara
-- 2010-07-28T12:12:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/yen-rises-as-evidence-of-slowdown-deters-demand-for-higher-yielding-assets.html

          
          
             The yen advanced against most of its
major counterparts as evidence of a global economic slowdown
deterred demand for higher-yielding assets.  
 Australia’s dollar slid against the yen and dollar as the
nation’s consumer prices increased in the second quarter less
than economists forecast, encouraging the central bank to keep
interest rates unchanged. The euro erased its gain versus the
yen after touching a two-month high before a U.S. report on
durable goods as European stocks lost their gains.  
 “The yen strengthened as risk appetite turned around,”
said  Adam Cole , head of global foreign-exchange strategy at
Royal Bank of Canada in London. “The Aussie weakened initially
on the soft CPI data. Any risk of the RBA hiking at next week’s
meeting evaporated with this release.”  
 The euro was little changed at 114.14 yen at 8:05 a.m. in
New York, compared with 114.24 yesterday, after earlier rising
0.4 percent to 114.74, the highest level since May 18. The yen
traded at 87.81 per dollar, compared with 87.90. The euro was at
$1.2998, compared with $1.2996.  
 The Stoxx Europe 600 Index was little changed after
advancing as much as 0.6 percent. Futures on the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index expiring in September rose 0.1 percent.  
 The yen climbed 0.9 percent to 78.61 per Australian dollar,
from 79.33. It gained 0.6 percent to 64.09 against the New
Zealand dollar.  
 Japan’s currency typically strengthens in times of
uncertainty because the nation’s trade surplus means it doesn’t
have to rely on overseas lenders.  
 Yen’s 2010 Rally  
 The yen has advanced 9.7 percent this year in the biggest
gain among developed-world counterparts, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indices. The euro has dropped 7.7
percent, while the dollar is up 2.8 percent.  
 The U.S. economy grew at a 2.5 percent annualized rate in
the second quarter after expanding at a 2.7 percent pace in the
first three months of the year, according to the median estimate
of economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The report from the
Commerce Department is due July 30.  
 Orders for U.S. durable goods probably increased in June
for the sixth time in the past seven months, showing business
spending is supporting the U.S. recovery, economists said before
a Commerce Department report today.  
 Bookings for items meant to last at least three years rose
1 percent last month following a drop of 0.6 percent in May,
according to the median forecast of 76 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey. Excluding transportation gear, orders may have
grown 0.4 percent.  
 Weaker Aussie  
 The Australian dollar dropped against all of its major
counterparts tracked by Bloomberg after the Bureau of Statistics
said consumer prices rose 0.6 percent in the second quarter from
the previous three months. The median estimate of 21 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey was for a gain of 1 percent.  
 The Aussie declined 0.8 percent to 89.52 U.S. cents after
reaching 90.69 cents yesterday, the highest since May 10.  
 The Reserve Bank of Australia is forecast to keep the
benchmark interest rate at 4.5 percent on Aug. 3, the median
estimate of economists in a Bloomberg survey showed. The
nation’s policy makers signaled last week they are watching
 inflation  as they consider whether to resume rate increases
after leaving borrowing costs unchanged in June and July.  
 “There’s very little pressure now on the Reserve Bank of
Australia to raise next week though rate rises are still
possible later in the year,” said  Joseph Capurso , a currency
strategist in Sydney at Commonwealth Bank of Australia.  
 Yen in July  
 The yen was headed for a 0.7 percent monthly gain versus
the dollar and a 5.2 percent drop versus the euro. The dollar
was poised for a 5.9 percent decrease against the euro.  
 The Bank of Japan board member  Hidetoshi Kamezaki 
highlighted economic risks of a rising yen and said the bank
will act proactively to combat deflation, a more aggressive
stance than his colleagues have indicated.  
 “We need to recognize the impact of the weaker euro and
stronger yen on the competitiveness of exporters and the impact
of instability of financial markets on companies’ fund-raising
activities as downside risks to the economy,” Kamezaki said
today in a speech in Sapporo.  
 The dollar advanced yesterday the most against the yen in
almost two months as yields on two-year Treasury notes increased
as the government sold $38 billion of the securities.  
 “I don’t think the dollar-yen will fall much from here as
a downtrend of U.S. yields is easing,” said  Daisaku Ueno ,
president at Gaitame.Com Research Institute Ltd., a unit of
Japan’s largest currency margin company.  
 Treasury two-year note  yields  were at 0.65 percent after
rising 0.05 percentage point yesterday, the most on a closing
basis since June 10. They touched a record low of 0.5516 percent
on July 23.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 Kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        