-- Yen Advances for Second Day on Signs Global Recovery Slowing; Kiwi Weakens
-- Ron Harui
-- 2010-07-29T05:55:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/yen-is-near-this-year-s-high-against-dollar-on-signs-global-growth-slowing.html

          
          
             The yen rose for a second day
against the euro and the dollar as signs the global recovery is
slowing boosted demand for Japan’s currency as a refuge.  
 The yen advanced versus 14 of its 16 major counterparts
before reports that economists said will show U.S. gross
domestic product grew at a slower pace and confidence at
European manufacturers stayed negative. New Zealand’s dollar
fell for a third day after the central bank said deteriorating
growth will slow the pace of future interest-rate increases.
South Korea’s won dropped on concern exports will falter and the
central bank may intervene to prevent gains in the currency.  
 “As economies in the U.S. and Europe lose momentum, the
negative impact may reach other regions,” said  Soichiro Mori , a
manager at FXOnline Japan Co., a margin-trading company based in
Tokyo. “Growth-sensitive currencies may drop against the yen.”  
 The yen strengthened to 113.55 per euro as of 6:52 a.m. in
London from 113.66 in New York yesterday when it advanced 0.5
percent. Japan’s currency climbed to 87.25 per dollar from 87.47,
after rising to 86.27 on July 16, the strongest since Dec. 1.
The dollar was at $1.3014 per euro from $1.2995.  
 U.S. economic growth slowed to an annual 2.5 percent pace
last quarter, from 2.7 percent the previous three months,
according to a Bloomberg survey before tomorrow’s Commerce
Department report. Manufacturing confidence in the euro zone was
minus 5 in July, according to a separate Bloomberg survey before
the European Commission in Brussels releases the data today.  
 ‘Further Evidence’  
 “Further evidence of a cooling in U.S. growth momentum is
weighing on market sentiment,” said  Mike Jones , a currency
strategist at Bank of New Zealand Ltd. in Wellington. “Against
this backdrop, ‘safe haven’ currencies such as the yen and the
dollar are tending to outperform against ‘growth sensitive’
currencies like the Australian, New Zealand and Canadian
dollars.”  
 The yen typically strengthens in times of financial turmoil
as Japan’s trade surplus makes the currency attractive as it
means the nation does not have to rely on overseas lenders.  
 Japan’s currency has advanced 10 percent this year against
its developed-world counterparts, the biggest gainer of the
group, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency
Indices. The euro has dropped 7.7 percent, and the dollar has
strengthened 2.7 percent.  
 ‘More Dovish’  
 New Zealand’s dollar fell against all the major currencies
after central bank Governor  Alan Bollard  raised borrowing costs
for a second month and said the “pace and extent” of future
increases would be more moderate than earlier projected.  
 “The statement is more dovish than in June and the market
largely expected it to be unchanged,” said  Imre Speizer , a
market strategist in Wellington at Westpac Banking Corp.,
Australia’s second-largest lender. “The kiwi dollar is being
sold on that. We’re likely to see further hikes in the next few
meetings before consideration of a pause.”  
 The currency’s recent gains are “inconsistent with the
softening in New Zealand’s economic outlook and moderation in
our export commodity prices,” Bollard said today in Wellington
after increasing rates.  
 New Zealand posted a trade surplus of NZ$276 million ($200
million) for June, Statistics New Zealand said today, less than
the NZ$368 million forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  
 The benchmark rate of 3 percent in New Zealand compares to
4.5 percent for Australia and levels of 0.1 percent in Japan and
as low as zero in the U.S., attracting investors to the South
Pacific nations’ higher-yielding assets. The risk in such trades
is that currency market moves will erase profits.  
 New Zealand’s dollar fell 0.4 percent to 72.44 U.S. cents,
and declined 0.7 percent to 63.16 yen.  
 Won Falls  
 The won dropped for a second day after the Bank of Korea
said its index measuring manufacturer’s expectations for next
month fell to 102 for August, from 104 for July.  
 “Concern the recovery is slowing is bringing risk aversion
back,” said  Seo Jeong Hun , chief economist at Korea Exchange
Bank in Seoul. “The possibility of intervention also exists,
but exporters may try to repatriate income so won declines
should be limited.”  
 The won slipped 0.1 percent to 1,185.40 per dollar. It rose
to a five-week high of 1,181.33 on July 27 before retreating
yesterday as traders said the central bank bought dollars to
counter the won’s appreciation.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
 Ron Harui  in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        