-- Zloty Gains as Growth Estimate Adds to Interest Rate-Increase Speculation
-- Piotr Skolimowski
-- 2010-07-28T09:43:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-28/zloty-gains-as-growth-estimate-adds-to-interest-rate-increase-speculation.html

          
          
             The zloty rallied for a seventh day
after the Economy Ministry estimated first-half economic growth
at 3.1 percent, adding to speculation the central bank may
tighten its interest-rate policy.  
 The zloty climbed 0.2 percent 3.9966 per euro as of 11:38
a.m. in Warsaw, the second straight day it has breached the
level of 4 or fewer zloty per euro. It was the biggest advance
among the four emerging-market currencies that strengthened
versus the euro today, according to Bloomberg data.  
 The Economy Ministry’s growth estimate compares with gross
domestic product expansion of 1.8 percent in 2009. Private
consumption rose at an annual 2.2 percent in the first six
months of 2010, the ministry also estimated on its website. The
ministry, which normally reports on a quarterly basis, didn’t
give calculations for the year-earlier period. European stocks
climbed to a 12-week high as earnings from Air France-KLM Group
to LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA exceeded estimates.  
 “The international environment has been quite helpful and
the wave of uncertainty has been removed so that’s encouraging
people to go into emerging markets and the zloty looks best in
the region,” said  Nigel Rendell , senior emerging-market
strategist at RBC Capital in London. “The possibility that
interest rates may be lifted before the end of the year is also
acting as an incentive” to buy the zloty.  
 Traders of Polish interest-rate derivatives are betting
that rates will increase after being kept unchanged for 12
months through the end of June.  Forward-rate agreements  used to
speculate on borrowing costs six months from now are trading 47
basis points above the current three-month Warsaw interbank
offered rate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Piotr Skolimowski  in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        