-- Gazprom to Finish Sakhalin-2 Share Purchase in March
-- Yuji Okada
-- 2007-02-28T08:34:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-02-28/gazprom-to-finish-sakhalin-2-share-purchase-in-march-update2-.html

          
          
             OAO Gazprom (GAZP)  plans to complete the
acquisition of shares in  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) 's Sakhalin-2 oil
and gas venture next month, giving the Russian company control
over the country's first liquefied natural gas project.  
 ``We're targeting the end of March,'' Igor Bakhtin, deputy
head of Gazprom's eastern projects department, said in an
interview in  Tokyo  when asked for the company's timetable for the
share transaction.  
 Gazprom agreed in December to buy 50 percent plus one share
of the Sakhalin-2 project for $7.45 billion. Shell,  Mitsui & Co. (8031) 
and  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  will each sell half of their stakes to the
Russian company. Shell and the two partners have invested $12
billion in the venture, which clinched contracts to export 5
million tons a year of LNG to Japanese buyers.  
 Sakhalin-2 has committed to sell almost all of its planned
LNG output to utilities in  Japan , South Korea and North America.
The venture is expected to produce 9.6 million tons a year of LNG,
which is gas cooled to liquid for transport by tanker.  
 Shell owned 55 percent of Sakhalin-2, Mitsubishi 20 percent
and Mitsui 25 percent before the agreement with Gazprom.  
 Fradkov in Tokyo  
 Russian Premier Mikhail Fradkov held talks this week in
Tokyo with Japanese ministers and company executives, and
reiterated that the countries should strengthen economic and
trade relations.  
 ``Energy still is the pillar of the cooperation area that
Japan and Russia should pursue,'' Fradkov said in his opening
speech at a breakfast meeting with Fujio Mitarai, the chairman of
Keidanren, the lobby group that represents Japan's biggest
companies.  
 ``Apart from energy, the two nations should also be able to
expand cooperation in the areas of transportation, information-technology, and the projects that help build  Russia 's
infrastructure.''  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reinie Booysen at 
 rbooysen@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        