-- Clueless in the Capital Meets Small-Business Ire: Caroline Baum
-- Caroline Baum
-- 2010-02-11T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-10/clueless-in-the-capital-meets-small-business-ire-caroline-baum.html

          
          
             “Washington doesn’t get it.”  
 That generic statement is tripping off the tongues of
populists and Tea Partiers, business groups and bankers alike.
In short, the public is peeved at the politicians.  
 I heard it this week from  William Dunkelberg , chief
economist of the National Federation of Independent Business,
who used his group’s latest survey to opine on Washington’s deaf
ear for helping small business.  
 The president and Congress “pay lip service to the fact
that small business generates half of private-sector GDP and
employs 60 percent or more of private-sector workers,”
Dunkelberg says. As far as Washington’s efforts to help this
sector of the economy, “instead of stimulus, give consumers a
tax cut,” he says.  
 President  Barack Obama  has proposed using $30 billion of
repaid government bailout funds to help community banks lend to
small business, part of a “jobs bill” working its way through
Congress.  
 Each month the NFIB tallies small-business optimism, or
pessimism, which has been the dominant emotion of late. At 89.3
in January, the  index  is up 8.3 points from its March low, yet
it’s languished under 90 for a record seven  quarters . The only
other time the index plumbed those depths, and for one quarter
only, was during the 1980-1982 back-to-back recessions.  
 The news from the nation’s growth engine is getting less
bad, but it’s still far from good. Why is small business so
glum?  
 Cutting Econ 101  
 The Right points to uncertainty over looming tax increases
(aren’t death and taxes life’s two certainties?) and health-care
mandates. The Left says the problem is banks aren’t lending.  
 The truth is a bit of both and something more basic. Small-
business owners list “ poor sales ” as the numero uno problem.
And the jobs tax credit for hiring new workers, proposed by
President Obama and embraced by Congress, won’t do much to help.
Employers aren’t about to  pay  a new worker $40,000 to earn a
$5,000 credit unless that worker generates $35,000 of revenue,
Dunkelberg explains. That’s Econ 101 (see “marginal revenue
product” or “profit maximization”), a course most of our
elected representatives seem to have missed.  
 The tax credit for hiring “has absolutely no impact on our
decision-making,” says  Phil Kenny , president of Trucks Unique,
an Albuquerque, New Mexico, company that customizes pick-up
trucks for commercial and individual purposes. “We have no tax
liability to take a credit against.”  
 Listening Tour  
 And that’s not all. A tax credit “is not going to make me
hire when we don’t have work,” says  Jim Henderson , president of
Dynamic Sales Co., a 44-year-old construction and industrial
supply company in St. Louis with seven employees. “I plan to
sell my way out of recession, not wait for Washington to help me
out.”  
 If Washington wants to fix a problem -- and it’s far from
clear it has that ability -- the place to start is with proper
analysis and diagnosis.  
 Pat Felder , who co-owns Felder’s Collision Parts Inc. in
Baton Rouge, Louisiana, went to the White House in October,
along with members of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.  
 “Obama came in, talked at us, shook a few hands and
left,” Felder says. “I was foolish enough to think small-
business owners would have some sort of dialogue.”  
 Hope Minus Audacity  
 She told me yesterday what she would have told him.  
 “You can’t give with one hand and take away with the
other,” she says, referring to tax credits on the one hand and
tax increases for those earning more than $200,000 a year on the
other.  
 Small-business owners aren’t going to expand when they may
need the money to pay taxes next year. Maybe that’s why
 expectations  for business conditions six months out slipped
again last month, according to the NFIB.  
 There is hope. The 500 survey responses (out of the total
2,100) Dunkelberg received after the Jan. 21 Massachusetts
special election were more upbeat. Perhaps  Scott Brown , the
Republican candidate who pulled the people’s seat out from under
 Ted Kennedy’s  Democrats, gave small business “some  hope  for
less change,” Dunkelberg says, citing a myriad of presidential
initiatives.  
 What would small business like the federal government to
do?  
 Channeling Galt  
 “Stay out of our way,” says  Sherry Pymer , vice president
of Pymer Plastering Inc., a 124-year-old family owned business
in Columbus, Ohio. She sounded more like an Ayn Rand  hero  than a
woman dealing with a payroll, unemployment insurance and Ohio’s
commercial activity tax. “We don’t want them bailing out banks
and big business. We want them to go away with their mandating
and meddling and return this country to the principles it was
founded on over 200 years ago.”  
 We’re a long way from the Founding Fathers, that’s for
sure. The handful of small-business owners I talked to across
the country are about as close to the entrepreneurial spirit as
it gets. They all had one implied piece of advice for
Washington: Less is more. Specifically, you do less -- and get
your  fiscal house  in order -- and we’ll do more, Henderson says.  
 And as for the closing of the federal government this past
week due to weather, these small-business owners had one wish:
more snow.  
 ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        