-- Job Stimulus Like Rescuing Drowning Man: David G. Blanchflower
-- David G. Blanchflower
-- 2010-02-10T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-10/job-stimulus-like-rescuing-drowning-man-david-g-blanchflower.html

          
          
             You don’t refuse to save someone
from drowning because they might die of cancer in a few years.
They might not. Critics of U.S. President  Barack Obama  don’t
seem to have figured it out yet that saving jobs now will
increase employment in the future.  
 It is clear that without the various stimulus measures used
by the current administration there would have been much more
job destruction. Far from being the problem during this
recession, the public sector has been the solution.  
 If it weren’t for the government intervention many more
firms would have died, and numerous jobs would have been
permanently lost. Stimulus spending really has created jobs, or
at least it has prevented them from being destroyed. It doesn’t
simply shift them from the future to the present.  
 Obama’s Democrats realize they need to push hard on the
jobs front. The loss of  Ted Kennedy ’s Senate seat in
Massachusetts has been a call to arms. Ordinary Americans seem
more preoccupied with their political leaders’ strategy to lower
joblessness than they are with health-care reform.  
 One in 10 workers is unemployed. One in seven is either
unemployed or underemployed. And earnings are down, as are the
returns on savings with low  interest rates . The message now for
the administration is jobs, jobs and more jobs. A big issue will
be what sort of a jobs package the Democrats can get through the
Senate now that they no longer have a filibuster-proof majority.
This is pressing given that unemployment benefits for many
people will run out soon.  
 Good News  
 The latest jobs figures from the Bureau of Labor Statistics
contained some positive news. The unemployment rate fell from 10
percent to 9.7 percent in January. The employment-to-population
rate increased on the month, as did the participation rate,
which is also good news. This has to be set against the news
that more jobs were destroyed in the recession than previously
estimated. Non-farm payroll employment was revised lower showing
that from January and December 2009, rather than losing 3.4
million jobs as previously published, the number lost was
slightly more than 4 million.  
 The improvement we have seen in the jobs market is directly
a result of the monetary and fiscal stimuli. Lower interest
rates, huge amounts of quantitative easing and significant
fiscal stimulus prevented the economy from falling off a cliff.
Down the road the concern is that when the stimulus is removed,
there will be a double- or triple-dip reminiscent of the 1930s.  
 Job Growth  
 We are now seeing some employment growth in sectors outside
government, health care and temporary workers. The earliest sign
that the recovery had started in the labor market was in the
number of temporary workers, which last month increased by more
than 50,000. As each month goes by, we are starting to see a
similar trend in more industries. There is evidence of some
significant job growth in professional and business services (up
44,000); trade, transportation and utilities (a 15,000
increase); and retail trade (a gain of 42,000). This is a start.  
 The U.S. isn’t in this alone. There has been dramatic
action on the part of governments in many countries to stimulate
their economies with a variety of fiscal and monetary action.
The ability of the U.S. to emerge from recession will depend on
the extent to which the rest of the world is able to grow. The
possibility that an emerging sovereign-debt crisis in Greece,
Spain and Portugal spreads elsewhere would restrain our ability
to avoid another recession.  
 Irish Woes  
 The Obama administration was in the business of slowing the
loss of jobs. In Ireland where the government has implemented
Draconian public-spending cuts, unemployment now stands at 13.3
percent, up 5 percentage points on the year and rising at about
0.3 percent a month, with no peak in sight.  
 The National Federation of Independent Business’s latest
 Small Business Economic Trends  suggests that small businesses
won’t start hiring anytime soon. Their index of small-business
optimism has been close to historic lows for 15 consecutive
months. The survivability of many small firms is in doubt.  
 Small firms are traditionally the engines of job creation
in the economy but not when capital or liquidity constraints
bind, as they appear to be doing currently.  
 Providing access to capital for small firms is likely to be
crucial as it appears there is a clear market failure. Hence
Obama’s plan to create a Small Business Lending Fund with $30
billion transferred from the Troubled Asset Relief Program as
well as his endorsement of $33 billion in tax cuts for small
companies and incentives for hiring should help.  
 In any case, who knows what will happen in the future? We
need jobs right now for this once-in-a-century event. It helps
to think of the last couple of years or so as a big negative-
productivity shock. Just as in the 1970s when the price of oil
increased, the economy had to move to a new equilibrium with
higher-priced oil and adapt its technology.  
 This time around the price of risk has risen and the
economy also needs to shift gears and adapt to a new world where
the price of risk is higher. The role of the government is to
grease the wheels of that adjustment.  
 ( David G. Blanchflower , a former member of the Bank of
England’s Monetary Policy Committee, is professor of economics
at Dartmouth College and the University of Stirling. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
David Blanchflower at  david.g.blanchflower@dartmouth.edu   
          
          


  


        