-- Turkey to Seek Bids for Tobacco Unit Tekel Next Month
-- Mark Bentley
-- 2007-09-28T15:30:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-09-28/turkey-to-seek-bids-for-tobacco-unit-tekel-next-month-update1-.html

          
          
             Turkey 's government will invite bids
for state-owned cigarette-maker Tekel next month, in a third
attempt to sell the company, Finance Minister Kemal Unakitan said.  
 The government expects the sale to be completed this year,
Unakitan told reporters in London today, where he is attending
promotional meetings with investors for the company's sale.  
 ``This time we expect that the privatization of Tekel will be
successfully completed,'' Unakitan said. ``There's high interest''
from tobacco companies and private equity firms in the sale, he
said.  
 Turkey is seeking a buyer for Tekel under a $10 billion
International Monetary Fund-backed plan to slow inflation and
reduce the state's role in the economy, which attracted record
foreign investment last year.  
 Japan Tobacco Inc.,  Imperial Tobacco Group Plc (IMT)  and  British
American Tobacco Plc (BATS)  are among companies expressing interest in
Tekel, according to Turkish officials. Turkey received no bids for
the Istanbul-based company in 2005.  
 Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan 's government rejected
Tokyo-based Japan Tobacco's $1.15 billion bid for Tekel in 2003 as
too low. Turkey wanted $3 billion, officials said at the time.
Tekel controlled 38 percent of Turkey's cigarette market last
year, according to the Privatization Administration.  
 Citigroup Inc. is advising the government on the sale.  
 Japan Tobacco, the world's third-largest cigarette maker,
yesterday declined to comment on a report in the Times newspaper
that it planned to bid about $1.5 billion for Tekel.  
 Unakitan said Turkey also plans to sell Turkiye Halk Bankasi
AS, the second-largest state bank, highways and sugar factories.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Bentley in Ankara at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Wilson in  London  at 
 awilson23@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Eddie Buckle at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        