-- CIFG Cancels Protection on $12 Billion of CDOs
-- Jody Shenn
-- 2009-01-22T19:48:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-01-22/cifg-cancels-protection-on-12-billion-of-cdos-update2-.html

          
          
             CIFG Holding Ltd. reached an
agreement to cancel default protection on about $12 billion of
collateralized debt obligations at a discount, bolstering the
bond insurer’s ability to meet other claims.  
 The settlement includes cash and equity for a group of
credit-default swap counterparties, forcing CIFG’s main
shareholders, Groupe Banque Populaire and Groupe Caisse
d’Epargne, to end their control of the insurer, the company said
in a statement today. The counterparties received $1.3 billion
and a 90 percent stake, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  
 To combat losses from soaring U.S.  foreclosures , other bond
insurers including  Ambac Financial Group Inc. (ABKFQ) , Syncora Holdings
Ltd. and FGIC Corp. have also canceled contracts on mortgage-tied
CDOs, reaching agreements with banks including Merrill Lynch &
Co. and Credit Agricole SA. Hamilton, Bermuda-based CIFG is the
owner of the smallest of the formerly AAA rated bond insurers.  
 CIFG’s CDO transaction “increases the company’s claims
paying resources, better enabling the company to honor its
remaining obligations to policyholders,” Chief Executive Officer
John Pizzarelli said in the statement.  
 The company said in a separate statement that Pizzarelli
will be replaced by Lawrence P. English, CEO of turnaround
management firm Lawrence P. English Inc. and the former head of
health-care information and technology company QuadraMed Corp.  
 Moving Forward  
 CIFG, whose insurance ratings were cut by Moody’s and
Standard & Poor’s to non-investment grade, also agreed to buy
reinsurance on about $13 billion of municipal debt in the U.S.
from  Assured Guaranty Ltd. (AGO)  to lessen capital needs. Moody’s today
upgraded CIFG by three levels to Ba3. The rating, still three
steps below investment grade, is because CIFG is “exposed to
substantial performance volatility in light of its concentrated
exposure to structured assets and stressed mortgage risks.”  
 Banque Populaire and Caisse d’Epargne in 2007 agreed to take
control of CIFG from their unprofitable  Natixis (KN)  SA banking
subsidiary and doubled the company’s capital with a $1.5 billion
investment. The agreement announced today reduces the Paris-based
banks’ ownership to about 5 percent of CIFG, according to Banque
Populaire Chief Financial Officer Alain David.  
 “This might have been much more costly for us,” David said
in a telephone interview today. “There was a potential risk of a
few billion euros.”  
 “In 2008 we have provisioned the totality of these funds,”
David said. “Our goal is clearly to exit” from CIFG, he said.  
 Commercial Real Estate  
 CIFG’s settlement eliminated 98 percent of its exposure to
CDOs of home-loan bonds and “certain” ones backed by commercial
real estate debt, the statement said. CDOs repackage debt such as
mortgage bonds and leveraged loans into new securities with
varying risks.  
 Insurance regulators in New York,  Bermuda  and  France  took
part in the CDO negotiations, CIFG said. The company said its
financial advisers were from Lazard Ltd. and Torsiello Capital
Advisors Inc., and its legal counsel was Cadwalader Wickersham &
Taft LLP. Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP
represented CIFG’s shareholders. Sullivan & Cromwell LLP and FTI
Consulting Inc. represented the counterparties, CIFG said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Nol at 
 mnol@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        