-- Singh Vows to Maintain Aid for Afghans After Taliban Killings of Indians
-- James Rupert
-- 2010-04-26T09:38:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-24/afghan-american-operation-kills-16-including-taliban-commander-in-kunduz.html

          
          
             Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh
said India will maintain or increase its help to Afghanistan
despite Taliban attacks targeting its citizens working in the
country.  
 Suicide bomb attacks that twice have struck the Indian
embassy and killed 17 Indians since 2008 “will not succeed in
undermining India’s commitment to assist Afghanistan,” Singh
told reporters after meeting Afghan President Hamid Karzai in
New Delhi today. India, which has 3,500 Indian citizens in
Afghanistan, “is ready to augment its assistance for capacity
building” in Afghan public institutions, Singh said.  
 Karzai stopped in Delhi before both leaders travel to
Bhutan tomorrow for a South Asian summit. Their talks come two
months after suicide bombers killed at least 17 people in Kabul,
including Indian government officials.  
 Seventeen Indians have been killed in Afghanistan since
2008, Foreign Minister S.M. Krishna told parliament in New Delhi
last week. The Indian and Afghan governments have accused
Pakistan’s military intelligence of backing at least some of
those attacks, which come as Pakistan opposes the breadth of
India’s role in aiding its western neighbor.  
 India has been a main backer of Karzai’s government,
providing $1.2 billion in aid since 2002 that has included the
construction of highways, power lines and Afghanistan’s new
parliament building. Singh’s government provides 1,200
scholarships each year for Afghan students to study in India,
Karzai said.  
 Karzai has maintained close ties with India since his own
university studies there in the early 1980s. Neighboring
Pakistan supported his foe, the Taliban movement, until the U.S.
forced it to break relations after the September 2001 attacks.  
 Taliban Link  
 Pakistani politicians complain that India’s four consulates
in Afghanistan are used to covertly destabilize Pakistan, which
India denies. Pakistan in turn rejects Indian and Afghan
assertions that intercepted communications showed Pakistan’s
military intelligence network helped its longtime ally, Taliban
commander Jalaluddin Haqqani, launch attacks on Indians in Kabul.  
 Haqqani’s faction claimed responsibility for the October
2009 suicide bombing of India’s embassy in Kabul, which killed
the mission’s defense and press attachés. That strike and a July
2008 bombing killed a total of 75 people.  
 Indians in Afghanistan, many of whom work on road-building
or other technical assistance projects, now live under tightened
security, advised by their embassy to vary routes and schedules.  
 -- With assistance from Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul. Editors: John
Brinsley, Mark Williams  
 To contact the reporter on this story: James Rupert
in New Delhi at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        