-- Kan Says `No Particular Discussion' of Chinese Yuan at Group of 20 Meeting
-- Keiko Ujikane
-- 2010-04-24T02:04:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-24/kan-says-no-particular-discussion-of-chinese-yuan-at-group-of-20-meeting.html

          
          
             Japanese Finance Minister Naoto
Kan said there was “no particular discussion” of the
Chinese yuan at a meeting of finance ministers and central
bankers from Group of 20 nations.  
 “The member nations acknowledge that China doesn’t
favor discussion in open forums such as the G-7 and G-20”
when it comes to currency policies, Kan said at a press
conference in Washington today after the meeting. “Such
talks didn’t occur in open forums,” he said, adding that the
nations may have discussions on other occasions.  
 China has come under pressure to revalue its currency
and fuel domestic consumption to help correct global
imbalances. U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner has said
the G-20 talks in the U.S. capital could serve as an “avenue
for advancing U.S. interests” on the Chinese currency.  
 Kan said yesterday that finance ministers and central
bankers didn’t discuss the yuan at the G-7 meeting. G-7
officials met a day ahead of the G-20 gathering, which has
displaced the G-7 as the main forum for talks among the
world’s biggest economies.  
 Kan also said there were no questions about Japan’s
finances at today’s meeting. The impact on Japan from
Greece’s fiscal crisis is said to be limited because Japanese
investors hold few Greek government bonds, he said.  
 Bank of Japan Governor Masaaki Shirakawa, who also spoke
at the press briefing, said he explained the state of Japan’s
economy and monetary policy at today’s meeting.  
 “I told counterparts that the sustainability of the
recovery trend is becoming clearer and there are some budding
signs of a self-sustained recovery in domestic private
demand.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        