-- Quarterback Jimmy Clausen Taken by Panthers in Second Round of NFL Draft
-- Rob Gloster
-- 2010-04-24T01:51:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-24/quarterback-jimmy-clausen-taken-by-panthers-in-second-round-of-nfl-draft.html

          
          
             University of Notre Dame
quarterback Jimmy Clausen was selected by the Carolina Panthers
in the second round of the National Football League draft.  
 Clausen, the third quarterback chosen in the draft, was
the 48th overall pick. The University of Oklahoma’s Sam
Bradford was the No. 1 pick by the St. Louis Rams, and the
University of Florida’s Tim Tebow was taken 25th overall by the
Denver Broncos.  
 The fourth quarterback taken was Colt McCoy of the
University of Texas, who was selected midway through the third
round by the Cleveland Browns. He was the 85th selection
overall.  
 McCoy led Texas to the national championship game against
Alabama last season, before suffering a pinched nerve in his
right shoulder in the first quarter that benched him for the
remainder of the Longhorns’ 37-21 loss.  
 Clausen was the 16th selection in the second round held
today at Radio City Music Hall in New York. The first round was
held yesterday and rounds four through seven are set for
tomorrow.  
 Clausen ranked second in Notre Dame history by passing for
8,146 yards, trailing only Brady Quinn’s 11,762. The 6-foot-2,
223-pound Clausen, who was born in Westlake Village,
California, threw 60 touchdown passes for the Fighting Irish.  
 The New York Giants continued to focus on defensive
players, selecting defensive tackle Linval Joseph of East
Carolina in the second round and safety Chad Jones of Louisiana
State in the third. In the first round, they chose defensive
end Jason Pierre-Paul of South Florida.  
 The New York Jets used their second-round pick on 332-
pound offensive tackle Vlad Ducasse of Massachusetts.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        