-- SEC Chief Tells Employees No More Porn at Work
-- Jesse Westbrook
-- 2010-04-24T02:26:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-24/sec-s-schapiro-warns-agency-employees-about-viewing-pornography-at-work.html

          
          
             U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission Chairman Mary Schapiro said she “will not tolerate”
employees viewing pornography in the workplace after an internal
investigation found that more than 30 workers had visited
sexually explicit Web sites in the past five years.  
 “Those of you who are working night and day to restore the
SEC’s credibility deserve better than this,” Schapiro wrote
yesterday in a memo to the agency’s staff, according to SEC
spokesman John Nester. “I’m angry and frustrated that a very
few individuals have demonstrated that they are willing to place
the credibility of the SEC at risk.”
      The SEC is moving to improve its image after the agency
was faulted by lawmakers for its oversight of Wall Street
investment banks before the credit crisis and for failing to
detect Bernard Madoff’s Ponzi scheme. Schapiro, in her memo,
said the SEC has increased penalties for employees who break
agency rules and streamlined the process for taking disciplinary
action.  
 “To remove any possible ambiguity, be advised that any
person who violates our clear rules against this inappropriate
use of the Internet faces termination of employment,” Schapiro
wrote. “We cannot and will not tolerate this behavior.”  
 Investigations by the SEC inspector general’s office found
that 33 agency employees violated internal policies by viewing
pornography in the past five years. The report was requested by
Republican Senator Charles Grassley of Iowa, who released the
findings on April 22.  
 One investigation involved a senior attorney who worked at
the SEC’s headquarters in Washington, according to the report.
The attorney admitted to sometimes spending as much as eight
hours a day accessing pornography at work and filling his
computer hard drive with inappropriate images, the report said.
The SEC has about 3,600 total full-time employees.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Westbrook in Washington at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        