-- DirecTV Profit Rises; Debt Sale Planned for Buyback
-- Sarah Rabil
-- 2008-05-07T20:10:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-05-07/directv-profit-rises-debt-sale-planned-for-buyback-update6-.html

          
          
             DirecTV Group Inc. (DTV) , the largest U.S.
satellite-television provider, posted a 10 percent increase in
first-quarter profit and said it will sell as much as $2.5
billion in debt to fund a share buyback. The stock gained.  
 Net income  rose to $371 million, or 32 cents a share, from
$336 million, or 27 cents, a year earlier, DirecTV said today in
a statement. Sales and earnings beat analysts' estimates as the
El Segundo, California-based company added more subscribers than
projected. DirecTV boosted its  share  buyback plan to $3 billion.  
 Chief Executive Chase Carey increased high-definition
programming to 95 channels to draw new customers, retain current
subscribers and entice them to spend more each month. Average
revenue per customer rose 8.6 percent to $79.70 a month because
of higher prices and more HD signups. The offerings also reduced
cancellations, known as churn.  
 ``The operating results are nothing short of terrific,''
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analyst Craig Moffett said in an
interview. ``The remarkably low churn rate and the strong net
additions really stand out.''  
 DirecTV, the second-largest pay-TV service after Comcast
Corp., rose $1.21, or 4.7 percent, to $27.01 at 4 p.m. New York
time in Nasdaq Stock Market  trading , the most since Feb. 1. The
shares have gained 17 percent  this year .  
 Revenue rose 17 percent to $4.59 billion, beating the $4.48
billion average of 12 analysts'  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.
Earnings topped the 31-cent average of 16 estimates.  
 ``The economy has not had a material impact on the results
you're seeing from us,'' Carey said on a conference call today.  
 Liberty Media  
 DirecTV said today that Liberty Media Corp. agreed to limit
its voting power to its current 48 percent  stake  in DirecTV
regardless of how many shares are bought through a repurchase
program. Liberty, controlled by cable billionaire John Malone,
became the biggest DirecTV  shareholder  when it bought  News
Corp. (NWSA) 's 41 percent stake in February.  
 ``That throws cold water on the idea that Liberty is going
to imminently buy DirecTV, and that may be seen as a negative to
investors,'' Moffett said. The New York analyst expects the
stock to  perform  in line with the market and reach $30 in the
next year.  
 The company plans to sell as much as $1.35 billion of
senior notes due in 2016 in a private placement. The debt, which
may pay a coupon between 7.5 percent and 7.75 percent and will
be non-callable for four years, may be sold as soon as today,
according to a person familiar with the offering. An additional
$150 million of the notes may be issued. DirecTV also plans to
raise as much as $1 billion through an incremental term loan
under its existing credit facility.  
 Debt Rating  
 The notes are rated Ba3, three levels below investment
grade, by Moody's Investors Service and one step higher at BB by
Standard & Poor's. Moody's rates the term loan Baa3, the lowest
investment-grade level, and S&P rates it an equivalent BBB-.  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co., Bank of America Corp., Credit Suisse
Group and Morgan Stanley are managing the debt sale, said the
person, who declined to be identified because terms aren't set.  
 The company is on course to meet its full-year forecast,
Carey said on the call today. In February, DirecTV projected
revenue will rise by a ``double-digit'' percentage. Analysts
estimate 2008 revenue of $19.4 billion, up 12 percent from 2007.  
 More Customers  
 DirecTV added 275,000 net subscribers during the quarter,
bringing its total customers to 17 million in the U.S. In Latin
America, 200,000 net subscribers were added, up from 88,000 in
the year-ago quarter, increasing the total to 3.48 million.  
 Subscriber growth topped Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
analyst  Vijay Jayant 's estimates for 187,000 U.S. net additions,
a 1.42 percent churn rate and average revenue per subscriber of
$77.91. Analysts were projecting, on average, 199,000 net
subscriber additions, according to Jayant, who is based in New
York.  
 The rate of U.S. customer cancellations dropped to 1.36
percent monthly from 1.44 percent a year earlier, as more
subscribers added HD and DVR services and DirecTV tightened its
credit standards. It was the lowest first-quarter monthly rate
in 10 years.  
 The company spent an average of $712 attracting each new
subscriber, up 6.7 percent from a year earlier, partly because
of increased dealer incentives to target higher paying
subscribers.  
 Last month,  AT&T Inc. (T)  stopped selling DirecTV service in
the nine southern states that had been part of a contract AT&T
inherited with the  purchase  of BellSouth Corp. two years ago.
The biggest U.S. phone company let the contract expire and is
promoting  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) 's rival satellite-TV service.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Rabil in New York at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        