-- `Mandela Moment' Awaits Russia in Yukos Trial: Julian Rimmer
-- B y   J u l i a n   R i m m e r
-- 2010-11-11T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/-mandela-moment-awaits-russia-in-yukos-trial-commentary-by-julian-rimmer.html
The jury is out, or at least it
would be if there was one. Fascinated or appalled, Russia and
the world await the verdict in the latest trial of  Mikhail Khodorkovsky , the former owner of Yukos Oil Co. His fate now
lies in the hands of Judge Viktor Danilkin.  Few doubt the court’s independence of thought will be
compromised by the Kremlin and how it decides to handle this
cause celebre. Khodorkovsky, who was sentenced in 2005 to nine
years in a Siberian labor camp for fraud and had his prison time
reduced by one year on appeal, has become a focal point for
liberal dissent in Russia and  critical opposition  abroad.  Government officials are desperate to be rid of the former
oligarch, whose vast wealth and increasing political influence
led to his arrest in 2003 after a falling-out with then
President  Vladimir Putin . Whatever course of action they take,
he won’t go away quietly. The judge is scheduled to begin
handing down his verdict on Dec. 15.  Should they free Khodorkovsky, it’s unlikely he would
maintain airwave silence. If, as Khodorkovsky predicted in his
closing statement to the court, he is sentenced to an additional
six years on embezzlement and money laundering charges, he will
symbolize something deeply troubling about modern Russia.  President  Dmitry Medvedev  doesn’t need his legal background
to be aware that the judicial process throughout the “Affair
Khodorkovsky” has been less than satisfactory. He also should
know that Russia may be facing a “Mandela moment” of sorts.  Fight for Freedom  The analogy to  Nelson Mandela , who was imprisoned for 27
years under South Africa’s apartheid regime, may seem like a
stretch. There are no similarities in the path they trod to
incarceration, and the causes they championed were diametrically
opposed. Mandela was fighting for freedom from a racist
government. Khodorkovsky was mostly concerned with personal
enrichment and is hardly viewed as a flower of liberty.  But the two cases illustrate defining moments for two
nations that struggled to adopt democracy and the rule of law.  At this stage, Khodorkovsky poses a nuisance to Putin, as
is evident from the prime minister’s reaction every time he is
asked about the case. Yet if prosecutors succeed in imprisoning
Khodorkovsky and his co-defendant,  Platon Lebedev , for another
term, their profile will undoubtedly be raised.  Martyr Status  Supporters of the defendants have been courting the Western
media and ensuring Khodorkovsky receives mostly sympathetic
press. These days, Russian leaders no longer have the option of
eliminating someone in Siberia, and they will be wary of
conferring martyr status on the former oil tycoon. They must
also consider the prospect that they may have to go through the
whole travesty again when his next parole is due. Khodorkovsky
can’t be gagged indefinitely.  His case also serves as a political barometer to investors
in Russia. At this juncture, the government can’t afford to
alienate international capital through another public-relations
disaster. At a price/earnings ratio of less than 10, Russian
stocks trade at a hefty discount, compared with 12.5 for Turkey
and 14 for Brazil. The nation aims to plug its budget deficit
with the help of an ambitious $50 billion privatization process
that will require the support of global fund managers.  Unusually for currencies considered viable for the carry
trade that has characterized emerging-market investment, the
ruble has fallen 2 percent against the U.S. dollar this year,
and Russia’s economic recovery has been more sluggish than its
trading partners. Russia also fell eight places in Transparency
International’s 2010 Corruption Perceptions Index to rank 156th
(alongside Tajikistan and Kenya). This is hardly the direction
President Medvedev meant to take his country.  Back to Gulag  Russia must tackle these issues, and dispatching
Khodorkovsky back to the gulag will only intensify international
criticism, jeopardizing Russia’s modernization program. Sending
him on a long walk to freedom may be galling for Putin, but
compromise may be unavoidable.  The furor over another conviction would surely cast a cloud
over the presidential election campaign for 2012 and overshadow
Medvedev’s efforts to project a better image for Russia. He has
taken up the cause of modernizing Russia, just like Peter the
Great did; has shaken hands with world leaders; posted messages
on Twitter; and lifted weights with California Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger . He also launched the high-tech research hub of
Skolkovo, near the capital, and sacked Moscow Mayor  Yury Luzhkov , often viewed as the embodiment of Russian cronyism.  Soccer Bid  Mindful of the fillip given to Brazil’s economy when that
country won the right to host the 2014 soccer  World Cup  and the
 2016 Olympic Games , Medvedev and Putin have enthusiastically
endorsed Russia’s bid to host the 2018 World Cup. The event
would provide a boost to national self-esteem, but it’s hard to
see this happening with the backdrop of renewed hostilities with
the Western media over Russia’s most notorious prisoner.  There are signs of late that the kopek has dropped and that
the Russian leadership has grasped the importance of
international public relations. The stage management of
Khodorkovsky’s second prosecution has been as clumsy as his
first one. It is doubtful if Khodorkovsky will ever be proven
unequivocally guilty of anything, except perhaps hubris.  The South African regime once viewed Mandela as a
terrorist. Now they think of him as a savior. It’s too much to
think the same could ever be thought of Khodorkovsky but a
politically savvy display of leniency might be the catalyst for
a softer, hopey-changey feel to government in Russia.  For the most high-profile casualty of Putin’s refusal to
brook dissent it may be a long walk to freedom or a long walk
back to Siberia. It’s a long walk somewhere.  ( Julian Rimmer  is a trader at CF Global Trading in London.
The opinions expressed are his own. His firm or clients may own
or trade securities discussed in this column.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Julian Rimmer  at  jrimmer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  