-- Abu Dhabi Said to Reduce Naphtha Offer Prices for Asia Starting January
-- B y   A n n   K o h
-- 2010-11-11T09:35:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/abu-dhabi-said-to-reduce-naphtha-offer-prices-for-asia-starting-january.html
Abu Dhabi National Oil Co. reduced
the offer prices for a year’s supply of naphtha to customers in
Asia from January, according to three people who received
notification.  The U.A.E. company, known as Adnoc, lowered its selling
price for Pentane Plus naphtha to $18.50 a metric ton above
benchmark Middle East prices, the people said, declining to be
identified as talks are confidential. It is seeking to sell Low
Sulfur grade at a premium of $17.50 a ton and Splitter grade at
$16.50 a ton, the people said. An Adnoc spokesman in Abu Dhabi
couldn’t be reached for immediate comment.  Adnoc last week offered Pentane Plus at $19 a ton, Low
Sulfur at $18 a ton and Splitter at $17 a ton, two people with
direct knowledge of the term discussions said Nov. 4.  The prices are still higher than those set by Adnoc in its
previous round of contract negotiations in July and by Kuwait
during its talks with buyers in October, because of increased
spot prices in Asia. Prices of  naphtha  cargoes for delivery to
Japan climbed 6.4 percent last month after refinery strikes in
France reduced supplies.  For a year’s supplies starting October, Adnoc set its
premiums for Splitter grade at $11.50 a ton and Pentane Plus at
$12.50 a ton. It didn’t offer Low Sulfur grade. Kuwait Petroleum
Corp. agreed last month to sell naphtha for December through
November 2011 delivery at $12 to $13 a ton, bidders involved in
negotiations said Oct. 8.  Persian Gulf oil producers such as Abu Dhabi and Kuwait
sell most of their crude and refined products under long-term
contracts. Naphtha, used in making petrochemicals and gasoline,
is mainly sold under annual contracts negotiated at several
intervals a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ann Koh  in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jane Lee in Kuala Lumpur at 
 jalee@bloomberg.net  