-- Agricultural Bank to Join Hong Kong's H-Share Index; Datang Power Removed
-- B y   H a n n y   W a n
-- 2010-11-11T17:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/agricultural-bank-to-join-hong-kong-s-h-share-index-datang-power-removed.html
Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.,
which completed the world’s third-biggest initial public
offering this year, will join Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index  following a quarterly review.  Guangzhou Automobile Group Co. will also join the measure
while Datang International Power Generation Co. and
Metallurgical Corp. of China Ltd. will be deleted, Hang Seng
Indexes Co. said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. Changes
will take effect Dec. 6. The number of constituents on the H-
share index of Chinese companies will stay at 40.  Membership of the benchmark Hang Seng Index will be
unchanged, the index compiler said.  The amendments, based on criteria such as market value and
liquidity rankings, will likely prompt funds that mirror the
gauges, such as the $6.8 billion  Tracker Fund  of Hong Kong, to
adjust their holdings in the days leading up to the date the
changes take effect.  Potential additions for the H-share index must have been
listed for at least one month before the review cut-off date.  Agricultural Bank, China’s fourth-largest bank, has soared
37 percent through yesterday since its July 16 debut, having
raised $22.1 billion in its initial public offering.  Guangzhou Automobile , a partner of Toyota Motor Corp. and
Honda Motor Co. in China, rallied 45 percent to yesterday’s
close since first trading in Hong Kong in August.  Datang, China’s biggest publicly traded electricity
producer by market value, has declined 7.2 percent this year.
Metallurgical Corp. The provider of metallurgical facilities,
has plunged 20 percent in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hanny Wan  in Hong Kong at 
 hwan3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 