-- Thai Confidence Drops First Time in Six Months on Baht, Flood
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2010-11-11T04:38:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/thai-consumer-confidence-falls-for-first-time-in-six-months-on-baht-flood.html
  Thailand ’s  consumer confidence  fell
for the first time in six months in October as the baht surged
to a 13-year high and the nation’s worst floods in five decades
devastated agricultural land.  An index measuring sentiment dropped to 71.6 last month
from 73.5 in September, the University of the Thai Chamber of
Commerce said in a statement in Bangkok today. The gauge is
based on a survey of 2,245 respondents.  The  Finance Ministry  last month cut its economic growth
forecast for this year to 7.3 percent from 7.6 percent after
factoring in the effects of the floods and stronger baht. The
Federation of Thai Industries yesterday urged the government to
impose “tougher” measures to rein in the currency to protect
exports, which account for 60 percent of the economy.  “The flooding and the baht’s strength are the key negative
factors,” said Thanavath Phonvichai, an economist at the
university. “If the problems are prolonged, they will damp
sentiment further and hurt consumption in the fourth quarter.”  The baht has appreciated more than 12 percent this year,
the best performance in  Asia  outside Japan, raising concern that
Thailand’s goods may become more expensive relative to its
regional rivals’. The currency’s strength hasn’t hurt shipments
yet, with a government report last month showing exports rose
21.2 percent to a record $18.07 billion in September.  The baht traded at 29.56 per dollar as of 11:28 a.m. in
Bangkok, from 29.58 yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency yesterday touched 29.46, the strongest
level since July 1997.  Currency Measures  Thailand’s government last month removed a 15 percent tax
exemption for foreigners on income from Thai bonds to slow gains
in the baht, and Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul has said the
central bank is studying more measures to curb excessive
fluctuations in the foreign-exchange market.  Adding to evidence that Thailand’s economic recovery is
intact, Moody’s Investors Service last month raised the outlook
on the nation’s credit rating to stable from negative, citing an
improvement in government finances.  The government will spend at least 20 billion baht ($676
million) to compensate farmers and others affected by the floods,
Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  said Nov. 1. More than 200
people have been killed and 4 percent of the nation’s
agricultural land damaged in floods in recent months.  “Consumer confidence this month is expected to fall
further as the flooding continues, Thanavath said. “Consumers
will be more careful on their spending.”  The university cut its forecast for gross domestic product
growth in the fourth quarter to between 2 percent and 2.5
percent, from 3 percent to 4 percent earlier, he said.  The university estimated the preliminary damage cost from
the floods to be about 70 billion baht to 100 billion baht, up
from as much as 50 billion baht forecast earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 Suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at   tjordan3@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  