-- Makeovers on Hold as Consumer Caution Validates Bernanke
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 2010-11-11T05:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/makeovers-on-hold-as-consumer-caution-reinforces-bernanke-view.html
Americans are delaying renovations
to kitchens and bathrooms, curbing sales at  Home Depot Inc.  and
 Lowe’s Cos.  and underscoring Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s concerns the recovery is “disappointingly slow.”  The two largest U.S. home-improvement retailers may cut
sales forecasts next week after suppliers such as Masco Corp.
and  Sherwin-Williams Co.  reported slower deliveries of paint,
cabinets, faucets and other products in the third quarter,
according to  Budd Bugatch , a St. Petersburg, Florida-based
analyst at Raymond James & Associates Inc.  With unemployment near a 26-year high and a quarter of U.S.
homes worth less than their mortgages, consumers are wary of
committing to costly improvements. Household spending, which
accounts for 70 percent of the economy, is “constrained,” the
Fed said last week, when it announced it would pump more money
into the financial system to keep borrowing costs low.  “Nobody wants to put a new kitchen into a house that’s
worth less than when they bought it,” said  Donald Ratajczak , an
economic consultant for Morgan Keegan & Co. Inc. in Atlanta.
“If the consumer weakness is widespread, the Fed is going to
say they need to hustle” in expanding monetary stimulus.  A week before Fed policy makers met, Whirlpool Corp., the
world’s largest appliance maker, cut its 2010 forecast for U.S.
shipments. Chief Executive Officer  Jeff Fettig , speaking on a
conference call, said sales would rise about 3 percent, compared
with an earlier 5 percent target, because of a more
“challenging” pricing and volume outlook.  Whirlpool’s third-quarter  sales  increased 0.5 percent to
$4.52 billion, slowing from a 14 percent gain in the first half,
the company said on Oct. 27.  Income Growth  “Household spending is increasing gradually, but remains
constrained by high unemployment, modest income growth, lower
housing wealth, and tight credit,” the Fed said Nov. 3, when it
announced it would buy an additional $600 billion of Treasuries
through June. Progress toward fulfilling its mandate for maximum
employment and stable prices has been “disappointingly slow,”
the statement said.  Share prices of home-improvement stores and other retailers
reflect uneven gains in consumer spending, which rose 3.7
percent in September from a year earlier.  The S&P 500 Home Improvement Retail Index, which consists
of Home Depot & Lowe’s, has climbed 10.8 percent since Aug. 31,
trailing the 28 percent increase in the S&P Supercomposite
Department Store Index, which includes retailers such as
Nordstrom Inc. and Saks Inc.  Sales Forecasts  Home Depot may trim its projected sales growth of 2.6
percent for the 12 months through January 2011, while Lowe’s may
reduce its growth forecast of 4 percent, Bugatch told clients in
a Nov. 8 note. The two retailers reduced their full-year sales
outlook in August.  “Foreclosures have created more anxiety for consumers
already conservative in their spending,” said  Walter Todd , who
helps manage $900 million, including 220,000 Lowe’s shares, at
Greenwood Capital in Greenwood, South Carolina. “If your
neighbor is getting foreclosed on, why should you improve your
home?”  Lenders are repossessing properties as borrowers fall
behind in mortgage payments after the worst housing crash since
the Great Depression. As many as 7 million homes face
foreclosure or are already taken, according to Zillow Inc.  “After two years of less-than-normal employment, too many
people can’t afford renovations,” said Ratajczak, who
previously ran Georgia State University’s Economic Forecast
Center, where he won acclaim from the Boston Federal Reserve
Bank for his inflation forecasts in the 1990s.  Stocks Downgraded  On Nov. 8, Bugatch downgraded  Home Depot  by two levels to
“market perform” from “strong buy.” He cut  Lowe’s  to
“market perform” from “outperform.”  “The stocks are unlikely to outperform in the very near
term, in the next six to 12 months,” he said.  Home Depot gained 21 cents to $31.68 yesterday in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have advanced 9.5
percent this year. Lowe’s rose 21 cents to $21.86.  Atlanta-based Home Depot won’t comment ahead of its third-
quarter earnings release Nov. 16, said  Ron DeFeo , a company
spokesman. Mooresville, North Carolina-based Lowe’s, which
reports results Nov. 15, declined to comment, spokeswoman Julie
Yenichek said.  An $8,000 U.S. tax credit for purchasing homes expired this
year, hurting demand for new and used homes, according to  David Strasser , an analyst at Janney Capital Markets in New York.  Smaller Houses  Some contractors are building smaller houses with simpler
designs that eschew amenities such as vaulted ceilings,
according to Masco Chief Executive Officer  Timothy Wadhams . As a
result, revenue per job is lower as builders buy less insulation
and other materials.  Sales of Masco’s cabinets, including KraftMaid and
Merillat, tumbled 18 percent in the third quarter from a year
earlier, while sales of its Behr paints and stains slipped 2.3
percent. The declines of those two segments accelerated from the
second quarter.  “It’s gotten a lot tougher over the course of the last
couple of quarters,” Wadhams told analysts Nov. 9 at a Robert
W. Baird & Co. conference in Chicago.  Housing prices may keep falling until mid-2011, delaying
big-ticket purchases, Lowe’s Chief Financial Officer  Robert Hull 
told analysts Sept. 29.  Home Depot in August lowered its forecast for sales growth
to 2.6 percent in 2010 from an earlier prediction of 3.5
percent. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect sales to rise 2.1
percent to $67.6 billion.  Lowe’s reduced its full-year sales growth projection in
August to 4 percent, from an earlier range of 5 percent to 7
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Burritt  in Greensboro, North Carolina, at 
1348 or  cburritt@bloomberg.net ;
 Anthony Feld  in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 