-- Malaysia to Offer Tax Incentives to Spur Exploration for Crude Oil, Gas
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i   a n d   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2010-11-12T02:06:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/malaysia-to-offer-tax-incentives-to-spur-exploration-for-crude-oil-gas.html
Malaysia, Southeast Asia’s second-
largest oil and gas producer, will offer tax incentives to
encourage the exploration of less-profitable fields to boost
revenue and extend the life of the country’s petroleum reserves.  The nation wants to attract oil and gas companies including
state-owned  Petroliam Nasional Bhd. , or Petronas, to explore
“marginal” fields, Second Finance Minister  Ahmad Husni Hanadzlah  said in an interview with Bloomberg yesterday. High
exploration costs make some areas economically unviable.  “We are highly dependent” on oil revenue, Ahmad Husni
said. “With the incentives, we’re confident that not only
Petronas, but also the foreign petroleum companies, will
continue their exploration.”  Malaysia’s oil and gas production has fallen for two
straight years, declining to the equivalent of 1.63 million
barrels of oil a day in the year ended March 31 from 1.66
million a day a year earlier, according to Petronas’s 2010
annual report. The country has tapped deepwater fields to
increase reserves as energy demand rises.  “A lot of marginal oil fields were abandoned over the past
few years, so giving a tax incentive will increase the
possibility of more exploration,” said  Arhnue Tan , an analyst
at ECM Libra Capital Sdn. in Kuala Lumpur. “Oil prices at this
level also make it potentially more profitable. The timing is
just right.”  Two-Year High  Crude oil futures on the New York Mercantile Exchange have
risen 10 percent this year, yesterday touching $88.63 a barrel,
the highest level in two years.  Malaysia’s crude oil reserves may last 24 years based on
current output levels, the finance ministry said in its
2010/2011 economic report on Oct. 15. The country has sufficient
natural gas reserves for 38 years as of Jan. 1.  About 23 percent of Malaysia’s oil reserves are located in
deepwater fields and close to 15 percent are in fields with high
carbon dioxide content, Petronas said in the annual report.  “The oil reserves are there, but for them to do more
exploration, they need the government support” to compensate
for the higher drilling costs, said Ahmad Husni. The government
has approved the initiative and it will be announced soon, he
said, declining to give a specific time. While the tax income
may initially fall, the amount of revenue to be generated later
is “huge,” he said.  The government’s tax revenue from the petroleum industry
will drop 33 percent to 18.3 billion ringgit this year,
according to the economic report. Indonesia is the biggest oil
and gas producer in Southeast Asia.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Soraya Permatasari  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net ;
 Chong Pooi Koon  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barry Porter at   bporter10@bloomberg.net  