-- Albania Plans to Sell Eurobonds Again Next Year to Build Roads, Repay Debt
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2010-11-12T10:37:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/albania-plans-to-sell-eurobonds-again-next-year-to-build-roads-repay-debt.html
Albania plans to sell bonds in euros
next year after last month’s debut sale as it seeks to repay
maturing debt and raise funds to build roads, bridges and
railways, Prime Minister  Sali Berisha  said.  The government will seek to raise 300 million euros ($409
million) to 500 million euros, Berisha, 66, said yesterday in a
phone interview from the capital, Tirana.  “Next year we are going to go to the euro markets because
we would like our banks to have space to finance the private
sector,” he said. “We are not in a hurry. We will go back to
the market at the most optimal time.”  The Adriatic nation of 3 million people, which is striving 
to become a candidate for European Union membership, sold its 
first bonds in euros on Oct. 28. Borrowing costs dropped below 
those of neighboring Greece as near-zero interest rates in
major economies increased investor appetite for higher-yielding
emerging-market assets.  Albania sold 300 million euros of five-year bonds at a
yield of 7.5 percent. Greek notes due August 2015 traded at 12.5
percent yesterday. Standard & Poor’s gives Greece, whose
ballooning budget deficit sparked the European debt crisis, a
BB+ rating, its highest non-investment grade. Albania is ranked
three steps lower at B+.  Bonds, Currency  The price of the bonds has declined on the secondary market
since the sale, pushing its yield up 15 basis points to 8.17
percent as of yesterday.  The Albanian lek, which is allowed to trade freely, has
declined 1 percent against the euro this year, to 138.71 at
11:54 a.m. in Tirana, following an 11 percent drop last year.  The government two years ago considered unilaterally
adopting the euro as neighboring Montenegro did in 2002. The
move is no longer on the agenda because of the euro-region’s
debt crisis, Berisha said.  “For the moment it’s not the best time to look at this,
Berisha said.‘‘It’s better to stick to” the existing currency
regime.  The Albanian government seeks to cap public debt, which the
 International Monetary Fund  has identified as the biggest danger
to the country’s economic recovery, at 59 percent of gross
domestic product this year, Berisha said. The IMF said Nov. 3
that Albania’s debt had risen to about 60 percent of GDP from 54
percent a few years ago.  Budget Outlook  The IMF urged Albania to reduce its budget deficit to 2.5
percent of GDP next year. The shortfall will widen to 3.4
percent in 2011 from 3.2 percent this year, Berisha said.  “One thing is sure, we will not allow our debt to go
beyond 59 percent,” Berisha said. “I don’t believe we risk an
increase of the debt, but in case it happens, we will intervene.
We would like it to be lower, but we are also obliged to heavily
invest in roads and infrastructure. It’s vital.”  While Hungary, Romania, Serbia, Latvia and Ukraine needed
international bailouts during the global financial crisis,
Albania, where per-person economic output is a fifth of the EU
average, avoided going to the IMF as its economy expanded and
the government cut spending by a quarter.  The government expects economic growth to accelerate to as
much as 7 percent next year from this year’s estimate of 4.5
percent to 5 percent, he said.  Albanians in Greece  Albania’s gross domestic product was $6,400 per person last
year, compared with $27,700 in Slovenia, the wealthiest nation
in the Balkans, and an average of $32,500 in the EU. Bosnia,
Ukraine, Georgia, Kosovo, Ukraine and Moldova are the only
poorer countries in Europe. Albania relies on remittances from
abroad for about 15 percent of GDP, mostly from nationals living
in Greece and Italy, according to the  CIA Factbook.   Remittances will probably fall as the Greek economy slides
into a recession after the EU and IMF rescued it from default,
which may force some Albanians to return home and set up small
businesses, Berisha said.  The government has reduced the shadow economy to as little
as 20 percent of GDP, compared with a CIA Factbook estimate of
50 percent, through improved tax collection and a crackdown on
tax evasion, Berisha said.  Albanians next month will join the citizens of other Balkan
nations in being able to travel to the EU without a visa after
the 27-nation bloc’s interior ministers this week voted in favor
of the move.  ‘Most Major Project’  Visa-free travel will add 2 percentage points to economic
growth per year from 2011 by improving Albania’s image and
attracting tourists and foreign investment, Berisha said.  The move brings the country “from the black to the white
list of the EU,” and confirms “an open door policy” on the
part of the trading bloc, he said.  Enlargement Commissioner  Stefan Fule  said Nov. 9 it is too
soon for the EU to give Albania candidate status. The
designation would allow Albania to start membership talks once
it had met certain conditions.  Berisha declined to speculate about when Albania would
become an EU candidate or achieve membership.  “We do work hard for it, continue with our reforms and the
progress is quite clear,” he said. “EU integration is the most
major project for Albanians for this century.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Agnes Lovasz  in Madrid at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  