-- Alcoa CEO Kleinfeld Supports Creation of Aluminum-Based ETF
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2010-11-11T00:00:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/alcoa-ceo-kleinfeld-supports-creation-of-aluminum-based-etf.html
Alcoa Inc ., the largest U.S.
aluminum producer, said it supports the creation of an exchange-
traded fund backed by the lightweight metal and would be
interested in supplying aluminum for such a product.  “We would be very open to it, very supportive of it,”
Chief Executive Officer  Klaus Kleinfeld  said today in an
interview in New York. “We would be open to supply metal.”  An aluminum ETF would allow investors to hold the metal
without the capital requirements and warehousing costs involved
in owning the physical metal that’s traded on the London Metal
Exchange, Kleinfeld said.  Aluminum will most likely be the first industrial metal
used to back an exchange-traded product, a Bloomberg survey of
analysts showed last month. Already $100 billion has been
invested in precious-metal funds.  Oleg Deripaska , the CEO and biggest shareholder of Moscow-
based United Co. Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum maker, said
in June that his company and other producers were in talks to
supply the metal to a fund. ETF Securities Ltd., manager of $22
billion in assets, said Oct. 11 it’s preparing to start
exchange-traded commodities funds backed by six industrial
metals including aluminum and copper.  “In today’s world, where there is more and more
volatility, people have discovered that aluminum can be a very
interesting asset class by itself,” Kleinfeld said following a
day of presentations by Alcoa to investors.  Timothy Reyes , president of materials management at Alcoa,
said there will be a “suite” of base-metals ETFs
“eventually,” including an aluminum ETF. He spoke in response
to a question during one of the presentations. Alcoa also
forecast aluminum demand climbing 13 percent this year and
doubling by 2020.  Aluminum for delivery in three months on the LME dropped
$21 to close at $2,448 a metric ton today. The metal, used in
beverage cans and auto-body panels, has advanced 9.8 percent
this year. Global  inventories  tracked by the LME have declined
7.9 percent in 2010 to 4.26 million tons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jack Kaskey  in New York at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net  