-- Alibaba Profit Beats Estimates on Customer Spending
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2010-11-11T10:05:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/alibaba-profit-rises-55-as-customers-boost-spending-update1-.html
Alibaba.com Ltd. , operator of
China’s biggest online-commerce site for businesses, said third-
quarter profit rose 55 percent as customers paid for more
advertising and trade-related services to market their products.  Net income climbed to 366.1 million yuan ($55.3 million)
from 236 million yuan a year earlier, Alibaba said in a
statement today. That exceeded the 349 million yuan average of
six analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Sales rose 40
percent to 1.45 billion yuan.  Alibaba, used by  Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  and  Procter & Gamble
Co.  for purchasing goods, increased sales from keyword
advertising and logistics services as the Hangzhou, eastern
China-based company broadened its revenue base. That helped
Chief Executive Officer  David Wei  counter slowing growth from
sales of annual subscriptions.  “The company is focusing on value-added services, which
will account for an increasing proportion of revenue,”  Jim Tang , who  rates  Alibaba shares “neutral” at Shenyin Wanguo
Securities in Shanghai, said before the announcement. Services
such as keyword advertising, logistics, and customer training
may make up more than 20 percent of Alibaba sales this year,
compared with 10 percent in 2009, Tang said.  Alibaba  rose  0.4 percent to close at HK$15 in Hong Kong
trading before the earnings announcement. The stock has declined
17 percent this year, compared with the 13 percent gain in the
city’s benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  More Subscribers  More customers are paying for value-added services, Wei
said in a conference call today. The company’s focus is to
increase average customer spending, he said.  Alibaba gained 2,762 subscribers for its export-oriented
China Gold Supplier program last quarter, compared with about
5,100 in the previous three months. The company added 37,850
customers for the China TrustPass program for marketing on the
domestic website, compared with 51,000 in the second quarter.  Customer additions will slow this year from 2009, when
subscriptions were boosted by price cuts, Tang said.  In September, Alibaba said it will stop selling the
“starter-pack” version of the Gold Supplier service and
replace it with a higher-priced subscription.  In August, Alibaba said it agreed to buy Auctiva, the
second acquisition by the Chinese company in the U.S. e-commerce
industry this year. In April, Alibaba started AliExpress, a
service primarily targeted at the U.S. market.  The company plans to announce more acquisitions related to
its China operations in the “coming weeks,” Wei said.  Parent Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. last month started a
public trial of its Etao.com search-engine service in China,
challenging industry leader Baidu Inc.  The closely held parent company, whose biggest shareholder
is  Yahoo! Inc. , also operates other Internet businesses
including Taobao.com, China’s biggest online retailing site, and
Yahoo’s China website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  