-- Maliki to Keep Power in Iraq as Leaders End Deadlock
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   K a d h i m   A j r a s h
-- 2010-11-12T17:26:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/maliki-stays-as-premier-in-iraq-deal-to-form-government-after-eight-months.html
Shiite Muslim Prime Minister  Nuri al-Maliki  was endorsed to lead the next Iraqi government after
his rivals walked out of parliament in a sign that a coalition
agreement ending eight months of deadlock may not hold.  Former premier  Ayad Allawi , who joined his Iraqiyah bloc in
leaving the session late yesterday after it descended into
shouting, had failed to assemble the support needed for a return
to power. He is supposed to lead a new council to oversee
security and foreign policy, and Iraqiyah was given the
speaker’s post as part of the deal.  Jalal Talabani , a Kurd,
retained the presidency.  Maysoon Damluji, the Iraqiyah spokeswoman, said the bloc’s
lawmakers walked out because al-Maliki’s alliance hadn’t abided
by the terms of the agreement, which includes measures to
reconcile the minority Sunnis and the majority Shiites.  “If they do not keep to the agreement, we will not take
part in the government,” Damluji said today in telephone
interview from Baghdad. “It’s very worrying. There is an obvious
lack of trust between the political factions.”  U.S. and regional leaders urged an end to the political
deadlock that began with the March 7 parliament elections and
has coincided with a surge in violence. The new government will
take office as the U.S. prepares to pull out its remaining
troops next year, and must address long-standing disputes over
issues including Iraq’s internal boundaries and rights to the
country’s oil and gas reserves.  President  Barack Obama  is planning to speak with al-Maliki
today, U.S. Deputy National Security Adviser  Ben Rhodes  said in
a statement.  ‘Another Milestone’  “This agreement marks another milestone in the history of
modern Iraq,”  Obama  said at a news conference today in Seoul,
where he was attending the Group of 20 meeting. “There’s still
challenges to overcome, but all indications are that the
government will be representative, inclusive, and reflect the
will of the Iraqi people who cast their ballots.”  Kurdish lawmaker  Mahmoud Othman  told CNN that mediation
efforts by the U.S., the Arab League and officials from Iraq’s
northern Kurdish region began yesterday after the Iraqiyah
protest and will continue until lawmakers meet again tomorrow.
The session in Baghdad is scheduled for 11 a.m. local time.  The walkout stemmed from political misunderstandings and
deep distrust among politicians, according to Othman, who said
he hopes the power-sharing agreement will not fall through. If
the situation is “not amended” and “they don’t come back, I am
afraid it will,” he said.  Iraqiyah lawmakers will attend tomorrow’s session, said
Damluji, the spokeswoman.  Three-Part Deal  Damluji said the coalition deal has three parts: the
establishment of a National Council for Strategic Policies, a
new approach to reconciliation of sectarian groups, including
Sunnis who were members of former President  Saddam Hussein ’s
Baath party, and the restoration of the political careers of
three Iraqiyah parliamentary candidates who were caught up in
the Shiite-led purge of former Baathists.  Hussein’s regime, dominated by Sunnis, carried out
persecution campaigns against opponents, including the Shiites
and Kurds.  Allawi “was effectively squeezed into a choice of joining
a government led by Maliki or remaining in opposition,” said
 Gala Riani , Middle East analyst for London-based IHS Global
Insight. It’s likely his party will “function as an opposition
within the government,” she said.  Competition between al-Maliki and Allawi to head the new
government was the main cause of the deadlock, as neither leader
had enough seats to govern alone. Allawi’s alliance won 91 seats
in the March balloting to the 89 taken by al-Maliki’s bloc. Al-
Maliki’s State of Law group assembled a governing majority of
163 seats in the 325-member parliament after being joined by
smaller parties during months of negotiations.  Five Ministries  Al-Maliki’s bloc will have five ministries in the
coalition, his adviser,  Ali al-Dabbagh , said yesterday.  Parliamentarian Kamal Saadi, a member of State of Law, said
in an interview today that al-Maliki has already started talks
with other political groups on forming a cabinet and is making
progress.  Talabani called for reconciliation in a speech after his
swearing-in, and said that will require “rising above all kinds
of partiality.” His vice president has yet to be elected by
lawmakers.  The parliament chose  Usama Al-Najafi , a Sunni Muslim member
of Iraqiyah, as speaker. Qusai al-Suhail, a member of the anti-
U.S. movement led by Shiite cleric  Moqtada al-Sadr , and Kurdish
politician  Aref Tayfur  were chosen as deputy speakers.  “It seems that no party, including the U.S., has come out
thinking that they’ve got everything they had hoped for,”
Iraq’s ambassador to the U.S.,  Samir Sumaida’ie , said in a
telephone interview. The U.S. “made no secret” that it wanted
Iraqiyah to have “a real share of power,” he said.  Checks, Balances  U.S. officials who spoke on condition of anonymity said
that the new government has sufficient checks and balances to
prevent any abuse of power. The security council headed by
Allawi will function like a board of directors to al-Maliki’s
executive authority, and decisions may require more than a
simple majority, the officials said.  The extended political wrangling has held up resolution of
disputes between the central government and the Kurdish
authorities over control of the northern oil fields, including
the Kirkuk region.  Iraq has the world’s fifth-largest oil reserves, without
counting the Kurdish territory. Output was 2.35 million barrels
a day last month, a drop of 6 percent from a year earlier,
according to U.S. government data. The government has awarded 12
oil-service contracts and three gas licenses, hoping to boost
production of its most prized exports.  ---With assistance from  Flavia Krause-Jackson  and  Viola Gienger 
in Washington. Editors:  Heather Langan ,  Leon Mangasarian   To contact the reporters on this story:
 Caroline Alexander  in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net ;
 Kadhim Ajrash  in Baghdad at 
 kadhimajrash@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 