-- Alliance Trust Investors Support a Share Buyback Plan, Laxey Partners Say
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2010-11-11T15:40:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/alliance-trust-investors-support-a-share-buyback-plan-laxey-partners-say.html
Alliance Trust Plc  shareholders are
supporting a call for the U.K.’s largest listed investment trust
to buy back more of its shares, according to activist investor
Laxey Partners Ltd.  The investor yesterday sent an open letter to Alliance’s
board requesting the firm buy back its shares when their value
drops 10 percent below what the firm’s assets are worth. Laxey,
which holds 1.3 percent of Alliance, wants the firm to allow
shareholders to vote on the proposal at its annual general
meeting next year.  “We’ve had enormous numbers of people this morning coming
in saying ‘we’re hugely supportive of this,’”  Colin Kingsnorth ,
chief executive officer of Laxey’s U.K. division, said in a
telephone interview. He declined to name any supporters.  Rival investment trusts at firms including Foreign &
Colonial Investment Trust Plc have “discount control
mechanisms” in place, Laxey says. The investor also wants to
change the company’s shareholder voting method because it claims
the current system gives Alliance’s management unfair weighting.  “You could never have a voting scheme like this in any
other FTSE company,” Kingsnorth said. “If BP or Shell or
Vodafone had this, there would be an absolute riot.”  Alliance said it will undertake share buybacks “from time
to time” in its 2010  annual report . “This should not be
confused with adoption of a discount control mechanism, which we
do not support,” it said.  Alliance today confirmed it received the letter.  “We are in ongoing dialogue with all our shareholders, but
it is not our policy to disclose the nature of conversations
with individual shareholders,” the investment trust said in an
e-mailed statement.  Shares of Alliance rose 1.7 percent to 361.9 pence as of
3:40 p.m. in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kevin Crowley  in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  