-- Aluminum Sales May Jump to Record on Car Demand, Sumitomo Light Metal Says
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   Y a s u m a s a   S o n g
-- 2010-11-11T03:16:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/aluminum-sales-may-jump-to-record-on-car-demand-sumitomo-light-metal-says.html
Sumitomo Light Metal Industries Ltd .,
Japan’s second-largest producer of rolled aluminum products,
forecast sales this fiscal year will climb to a record led by
demand from carmakers.  Global sales of flat-rolled products are forecast to gain
15 percent from a year earlier to an all-time high of 346,000
metric tons, as demand is also growing from makers of lithium-
ion batteries, LED lights and air conditioners, President
 Shigenori Yamauchi  said in an interview.  Global vehicle sales are expanding, Yamauchi said. The
company’s sales of flat-rolled products to the auto industry
represented 10 percent of total sales in the first half, rising
from 7 percent in the same period last year. China’s passenger-
car sales in October rose at the fastest pace in six months as
government incentives for fuel-efficient cars boosted purchases
in the world’s largest auto market.  The Tokyo-based company is considering building its first
overseas production facility for flat-rolled aluminum within the
next few years as growth in demand from customers outside Japan
will outpace domestic consumption, Yamauchi said. The company
allocated about 12.5 billion yen ($152 million) for overseas
production expansion over the next three years.  China’s aluminum demand is likely to total 16.8 million
tons this year, an increase of 22 percent from 2009, according
to Beijing Antaike Information Development Co.  Yen Appreciation  Japanese makers of cars and appliances are increasing
overseas production and boosting raw-material purchases from
local suppliers, as the yen has appreciated 12 percent this year,
making exports more expensive. The company has to set up
production bases overseas to keep up, Yamauchi said in Tokyo
yesterday. “Exporting products is not enough to meet
requirements from our customers,” he said.  Exports represented 22 percent of the company’s total sales
volume of flat-rolled products in the fiscal first half.
Sumitomo Light Metal, which operates a plant for extruded
products in the Czech Republic, estimated that costs to build an
aluminum-rolling mill overseas may be as much as 150 billion yen.  “That is too much investment for us alone,” Yamauchi said.
“We are considering options such as building a new plant with
other Japanese or foreign companies, or investing in existing
facilities.” Possible locations include China, India, Southeast
Asia, the Middle East and South America, he said.  Shipments Climb  Total  shipments  of rolled-aluminum products by Japanese
makers increased 8.5 percent to 170,443 tons in September,
expanding for the 10th straight month, according to the Japan
Aluminium Association. The pace of expansion dropped from 13
percent in August as sales to carmakers slowed after the
government ended subsidy payments for fuel-efficient models.  “We are not so optimistic about demand in the second half
of this fiscal year, as effects of the stimulus measures by the
government are fading,” said Kunio Ishikawa, an association
director. “The pace of growth may decline further, although the
volume of shipments may stay above a year-earlier level.”  Aluminum for three-month delivery on the London Metal
Exchange climbed 0.2 percent to $2,453 a ton at 10:08 in Tokyo
and has advanced 10 percent his year. The price climbed to
$2,492 on Nov. 4, the highest level since September 2008.  Sales Gain  Sumitomo Light Metal’s sales of flat-rolled products in the
six months ended Sept. 30 gained 19 percent to 173,000 tons, as
the government’s subsidies to buyers of energy-efficient cars
and electric appliances stimulated demand. The company expects
to sell similar volumes in the fiscal second half, regardless of
an end to the car subsidies program in September.  “Consumption of flat-rolled aluminum is supported not only
by domestic users but also by overseas customers,” Yamauchi
said. “Demand for high-quality products made by Japanese mills
will remain strong.”  The company sold 36 percent of its flat-rolled products for
use in cans in the fiscal first half. The ratio dropped from 44
percent in the same period last year on declining beer
consumption in Japan, Yamauchi said.  Demand will likely be led by emerging markets such as
renewable energy producers, as aluminum use will increase for
solar cells and lithium-ion batteries that power electric cars
and smartphones, he said.  Sumitomo Light Metal is the largest Japanese producer of
aluminum products after  Furukawa-Sky Aluminum Corp. , according
to the Japan Aluminium Association. The company’s shares
declined 1.1 percent to 91 yen at 11 a.m. in Tokyo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aya Takada  in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
 Yasumasa Song  in Tokyo at 
 ysong9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  