-- Manchester United, Arsenal Eyeing Barcelona's Bojan, Mirror Says: Roundup
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2010-11-11T11:40:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/manchester-united-arsenal-eyeing-barcelona-s-bojan-mirror-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from European newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  Bojan Alert  Barcelona striker  Bojan Krkic  is looking to leave Spain,
and Arsenal and Manchester United are monitoring the situation,
 the Daily Mirror said.   The 20-year-old has been mainly used as a substitute this
season, and may be valued at 15 million pounds ($24 million),
the newspaper said.  Barton’s Punch  Newcastle’s  Joey Barton  may face punishment from the
Football Association after punching  Morten Gamst Pedersen  during
last night’s 2-1 loss to Blackburn, the Daily Mirror said.  Television replays showed the two players brushed shoulders
as they passed before Barton delivered a blow to Pedersen’s
stomach that sent the Blackburn player to the ground. Referee
Mike Jones did not punish Barton for the incident.  Spurs Linked to Forlan  Tottenham manager  Harry Redknapp  may bid for Atletico
Madrid’s  Diego Forlan  in an effort to strengthen his front line,
the  Daily Mail  said.  Redknapp is keen to add a world-class striker after missing
out on Sevilla’s  Luis Fabiano  this summer, the Mail said. Real
Madrid has also made a move for ex-Manchester United player
Forlan, who was named the top player at this year’s World Cup,
the newspaper said.  Sneijder Sick  Inter Milan midfielder  Wesley Sneijder  has been diagnosed
with anemia after fainting at half time in the 1-1 draw with
against Brescia last weekend,  The Sun said.   The 26-year-old player went home to the Netherlands for a
second opinion and didn’t play against Lecce yesterday, also a
1-1 tie. He says his “whole body is exhausted,” the Sun said.  De Jong Targeted  Nigel de Jong  may leave Manchester City for Turkey’s
Fenerbahce after being criticized for his tackling,  the Daily
Mail said.   City coach  Roberto Mancini  likes the midfielder, but the
Dutchman may want to get away from the media coverage in
England, the newspaper said.  Ollie’s Threat  Blackpool manager  Ian Holloway  threatened to quit football
if the Premier League tries to fine him for making 10 lineup
changes in last night’s last-minute 3-2 loss at Aston Villa, the
 Daily Express  said.  “I would pack it in,” the Express quoted Holloway as
saying. “They can’t fine me for that. Let some person from the
Premier League tell me how to do my job? I am serious.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Elser  in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 