-- ANZ, BHP, Computershare, Qantas, Rio, Woodside: Australian Stocks Preview
-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 2010-11-11T21:37:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/anz-bhp-computershare-qantas-rio-woodside-australian-stocks-preview.html
The following is a list of companies
whose shares may rise or fall in Australia. This preview
includes news announced after markets closed. All prices are
from yesterday’s close unless otherwise stated.  The S&P/ASX 200 Index  futures contract  due in December fell
0.2 percent to 4,734 as of 7:59 a.m. in Sydney. The  Bank of New
York Australia ADR Index  slipped 0.6 percent. The  S&P/ASX 200
Index  gained 0.6 percent to 4,728.60.  Mining shares: Copper rose to a 30-month high in New York
and touched a record in London as reports showed higher factory
output and faster inflation in China, the world’s biggest
consumer of the metal.  BHP Billiton Ltd.  (BHP AU), the world’s largest mining
company, rose 1 percent to A$44.59 in Sydney. Its American
depositary receipts slipped 0.1 percent in New York trading.  Rio Tinto Group  (RIO AU), the world’s third-biggest miner,
advanced 1.4 percent to A$87.36 in Sydney.  ASX Ltd.  (ASX AU): Singapore Exchange Ltd.’s proposed
takeover of Australia’s main stock exchange operator may have to
be changed to keep its compliance role in Australia, the Age
newspaper reported, citing an interview with  John Brogden , chief
executive of the Financial Services Council. A fair set of
listing rules may not be guaranteed by foreign ownership, the
newspaper said, citing Brogden. ASX shares gained 0.1 percent to
A$37.12.       Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.  (ANZ AU):
Australia’s third-largest bank by market value offered an
indicative price range of $4.5 billion to $4.6 billion to buy
the 51 percent stake in Korea Exchange Bank owned by Lone Star
Funds and a further 6 percent held by the Export Import Bank of
Korea, Reuters reported, citing persons it didn’t identify. ANZ
rose 0.1 percent to A$23.72.  Computershare Ltd.  (CPU AU): The world’s biggest share
registrar was raised to “outperform” from “neutral” at
Credit Suisse Group AG. Computershare dropped 2.2 percent to
A$9.93.  Lynas Corp.  (LYC AU): China, which produces more than 90
percent of the world’s rare earth metals, needs to control
exports of the minerals to protect natural resources and cut
pollution, said the Chinese Society of Rare Earths. Lynas, a
miner of rare earths, jumped 7 percent to A$1.45.  Qantas Airways Ltd.  (QAN AU): Australia’s largest airline
will keep its fleet of Airbus SAS A380 planes grounded for at
least another 48 hours after a mid-flight turbine explosion, the
Australian Financial Review reported, citing an interview with
Chief Executive Officer  Alan Joyce . Qantas shares rose 2.5
percent to A$2.87.  Telecom Corp. of New Zealand  (TEL AU): Telecom Corp. and
Vodafone Group Plc, New Zealand’s the country’s two largest
telecommunications groups, submitted a joint bid to build a
broadband internet network across the nation’s rural areas.
Telecom Corp. shares advanced 1.5 percent to A$1.70.       Woodside Petroleum Ltd.  (WPL AU): Australia’s second-
biggest oil and gas producer was downgraded to “neutral” from
“outperform” at Credit Suisse Group AG. The stock added 1.2
percent to A$42.74.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 