-- APEC Ministers Agree to Extend Pledge to Refrain From More Trade Barriers
-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i
-- 2010-11-11T04:55:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/apec-ministers-agree-to-extend-pledge-to-refrain-from-more-trade-barriers.html
Asia-Pacific trade and foreign
ministers agreed to extend a pledge to keep from imposing
additional trade restrictions in their countries until at least
2013, ahead of a weekend summit of their countries’ leaders.  The 21-member Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum
endorsed regional trade discussions including the U.S.-led
 Trans-Pacific Partnership  talks that Japanese Prime Minister
 Naoto Kan  is trying to persuade his government to join. The
group, meeting in Yokohama, Japan, also called for completing
the Doha round of World Trade Organization talks next year.  “We agreed to make our utmost efforts to restrain
protectionism,” Japan’s Foreign Minister  Seiji Maehara  said at
a press conference in Yokohama. “We reconfirmed our strong will
to seek as soon as possible the end to the Doha negotiations.”  The meeting came as the heads of the  Group of 20  countries
met in Seoul to discuss ways to reduce imbalances in capital
flows and currency valuations. About half of the G-20 leaders
will travel to Yokohama tomorrow to continue discussions on
spurring international economic growth and trade.  Kan will host the Nov. 13-14 APEC summit as he tries to
convince his  Democratic Party of Japan  to participate in the
U.S.-led, nine-country TPP negotiations. His Cabinet two days
ago  agreed  to begin preliminary talks on whether to join amid
DPJ resistance because the accord would lift tariffs in the
agriculture industry, a key voting bloc.  Obama Administration Push  The Obama administration is pushing Japan and South Korea
to join the negotiations for what would be the largest U.S.
trade accord since the 1994 North American Free Trade Agreement
as it seeks to counter China’s free-trade efforts in the region.  “We welcome Japan’s interest in these discussions,” U.S.
Commerce Secretary  Gary Locke  said yesterday in a speech in
Tokyo. Achieving the goal of eliminating all tariffs within the
bloc by 2015 “will be a signature accomplishment in a
relationship that spans decades.”  The TPP involves the U.S., Australia, New Zealand, Brunei,
Singapore, Chile, Vietnam, Peru, and Malaysia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sachiko Sakamaki  in Tokyo at 
 ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  