-- Marchionne, VW Chief Say Possible Alfa, Ferrari Transaction `Just a Dream'
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t   a n d   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 2010-11-11T13:56:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/marchionne-calls-volkswagen-interest-for-fiat-s-alfa-ferrari-a-dream-.html
Fiat SpA  Chief Executive Officer
 Sergio Marchionne  and Volkswagen AG CEO  Martin Winterkorn  said a
sale of the Italian carmaker’s Alfa Romeo and Ferrari brands to
the German competitor is only a “dream.”  VW’s expressed interest in Alfa Romeo, and its reported
intentions for sports-car manufacturer Ferrari, “are nice
dreams,” Marchionne said today at an event in Turin, Italy, in
comments reported by Ansa newswire and confirmed by a spokesman
at Fiat.  Volkswagen  supervisory board Chairman  Ferdinand Piech  said
in September that the Wolfsburg, Germany-based carmaker,
Europe’s biggest, is “monitoring” Fiat’s stance on Alfa Romeo
in the event the Italian company wants to sell. Ferrari is the
“real” target of Piech’s interest, Germany’s  Manager Magazin 
reported in its November edition, citing unidentified observers
in the industry.  Alfa Romeo “is just a dream,” and the unit “makes
gorgeous cars but nothing more,” Ansa cited Winterkorn as
saying at the Turin event.  Michael Brendel , a Volkswagen spokesman, declined to
comment on the reports.  Marchionne said on Sept. 30 that he has no intention of
selling Alfa Romeo and instead wants to rebuild the brand by
developing new models and reentering the U.S. after its
departure in 1995. The CEO has said the division needs to
deliver 300,000 cars a year to make a profit and set a 2013
deadline for reaching that sales goal.  Alfa Romeo Estimate  Fiat, which is based in Turin, doesn’t provide separate
figures for Alfa Romeo. The division is probably losing about
300 million euros ($410 million) annually,  Max Warburton , a
Sanford C. Bernstein analyst in London, estimated last month.  Ferrari’s third-quarter trading profit, or earnings before
interest, taxes and one-time gains or costs, rose 46 percent to
76 million euros. The division, which makes the $228,000
California supercar, is forecasting full-year earnings growth
exceeding 10 percent. Trading profit for all of  Fiat ’s car
divisions, which also include the namesake brand and the
Maserati sports-car unit, increased 1 percent.  Fiat owns 90 percent of Ferrari after a 5 percent stake
purchase from Mubadala Development Co. for 122 million euros in
the third quarter. Marchionne said in September that he isn’t
planning to list the unit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tommaso Ebhardt  in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;
 Andreas Cremer  in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  