-- Large Hedge Funds Are Riskier Than Perceived, Spring Mountain Capital Says
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2010-11-11T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/large-hedge-funds-are-riskier-than-perceived-spring-mountain-capital-says.html
Investors who believe larger hedge
funds offer more safety and better returns than their smaller
rivals may be misguided, according to Spring Mountain Capital 
LP.  Funds with more than $1.5 billion in assets generate an
average of 0.2 percent a month less in alpha, or returns above
market indexes, than smaller managers, the New York-based 
investment management firm said today in a report. Spring 
Mountain analyzed 7,545 existing and 8,916 closed funds from 
1995 through this May.  “The supply of the illiquid securities you need to
generate alpha is finite -- large funds can’t get enough of
them,” Haim Mozes, a senior consultant at the company and co-
author of the report, said in a telephone interview. “When a
fund gets very large their ability to honor redemptions gets
impaired.”  Several big hedge funds imposed liquidation restrictions in
2007 and 2008, while small funds tended to be “the ATM machines
for investors,” according to  Jason Orchard , principal at Spring
Mountain who co-wrote the report. About $77 billion in assets
that were frozen during the credit crisis were still restricted
as of January, according to Credit Suisse Tremont Index LLC.
D.E. Shaw & Co., Highland Capital Management LP and Harbinger
Capital Partners LLC were among the firms to limit withdrawals.  About 75 percent of the $19 billion in client deposits to
hedge funds went to managers of $5 billion or more in the third
quarter, according to Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc.  ‘Redemption Cycle’  “Eventually, fund size will hinder performance enough to
trigger a redemption cycle that has a strong negative feedback
loop,” according to the authors.  Smaller funds are usually better able to exploit market
volatility, while bigger managers provide more beta, or
performance in line with benchmark indexes, they said.  Mozes and Orchard declined to say whether Spring Mountain,
which manages $2 billion in client assets, has pared its
investments in large hedge funds.  Hedge funds are lightly regulated pools of capital whose
managers can invest in any asset, and share in annual profits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kelly Bit  in New York at   kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  