-- Las Vegas Resumes Taking Auburn-Georgia Wagers Amid Newton Cheating Report
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-11-11T18:53:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/las-vegas-resumes-taking-auburn-georgia-wagers-amid-newton-cheating-report.html
Las Vegas sports books are again
taking wagers on this week’s football game between  Auburn 
University and the University of  Georgia , one day after betting
was suspended amid uncertainty about the status of Auburn
quarterback  Cam Newton .  “It looks like he’s playing so we have the game back on
the board,”  Jeff Sherman , assistant general manager at the
 Hilton ’s sports book, said in a telephone interview.  Auburn is favored by 8 points at the Hilton, which stopped
fielding bets on the game yesterday with the Tigers as 8 1/2-
point favorites. The suspension of wagering came after an  ESPN
report  that Newton’s college choice was part of a play-for-pay
recruiting plan and a Fox Sports report that he had three
instances of cheating while at the University of Florida in 2007
and 2008.  The sports book at  Caesar’s Palace  Hotel and Casino has the
Auburn-Georgia game back on the board today, supervisor Mark
Tutino said by telephone. The  MGM  Mirage also will start taking
bets on the game again, supervisor Craig Sasamura said.  Auburn coach  Gene Chizik  said yesterday during a media
conference call that Newton would play this week against
Georgia. The Tigers are ranked No. 2 in the nation with Newton,
who’s passed for 1,890 yards and 19 touchdowns while running for
a team-high 1,146 yards and 15 scores.  A leading candidate for the Heisman Trophy as college
football’s top player, Newton transferred to Auburn in January
after winning a junior college championship at Blinn College in
Texas. He was a backup at Florida to  Tim Tebow .  The National Collegiate Athletic Association -- the
governing board of college athletics -- is investigating
Newton’s recruiting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  