-- Found Vase Sets $83 Million China Art Record in Auction Battle
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2010-11-12T01:26:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/asian-buyer-battle-pushes-chinese-imperial-seal-to-4-3-million-in-london.html
A battle between Asian buyers last
night pushed a Qianlong-dynasty vase to a price of 51.6 million
pounds ($83.2 million), an auction record for Chinese art.  The vase had been discovered during a routine house
clearance in the suburb of Pinner in London. Rather than being
offered at the central salerooms of  Christie’s International  or
 Sotheby’s , it was sold by  Bainbridges , a west London auction
house, with an estimate of 800,000 pounds to 1.2 million pounds.
It made 40 times as much, at a hammer price of 43 million
pounds. After a Bloomberg preview report, dealers traveled to
the provincial sale from Asia. Others were in town for  Asian Art
in London ’s schedule of gallery exhibitions, shows and lectures.  “Everyone was excited about this vase,” David Baker, one
of the 37 dealers exhibiting at Asian Art in London, said in an
interview. “It’s an exceptional Imperial piece in perfect
condition with the most amazing reticulated decoration. It’s
exactly what Chinese buyers want at the moment.”  Asian bidders are prepared to pay ever-higher prices for
rare objects associated with Chinese emperors. Even before 20
percent fees on its hammer price, the 18th-century vase beat the
record of 436.8 million yuan ($65.9 million) paid for a 15-
meter-long Song Dynasty scroll at Beijing Poly International
Auction Co. in June 2010.  Last month, another 18th-century Imperial vase was bought
by Chinese collector Alice Cheng for a record HK$252.7 million
($32.6 million) at  Sotheby’s , Hong Kong. Asian art raised 245.5
million pounds of auction sales at Christie’s in the first half,
a 121 percent increase on the same period last year.  ‘Astonishing’ Artwork  “I’m thrilled that a provincial auction room can show what
it can do,” Peter Bainbridge, director of the auction house,
said in an interview after yesterday evening’s sale. “I’m also
delighted to have handled such an astonishing work of art. I
didn’t quite realize how exciting it was.”  There were about 100 people in the saleroom -- which was
cluttered with Victorian mahogany furniture -- including
collector  Robert Chang , the brother of Alice Cheng, and Hong
Kong dealer  William Chak .  A bidding battle between six people in the room and three
telephone bidders was won by a man in a black jacket who sat on
a gilded sofa at the front. The buyer, who refused comment after
the sale, was a Beijing-based agent, according to Bainbridge.  Taiwan Porcelain  Wares similar to the 16-inch-high, elaborately decorated
Bainbridge discovery were shown in the exhibition, “Stunning
Decorative Porcelains from the Chienlung Reign,” at the
National Palace Museum, Taiwan, in 2008, said the auction house.
The piece has a pierced double-wall body with roundels of fish.  The most valuable of  Asian Art in London ’s dealer exhibits
was a Qing dynasty Imperial vase offered by the Mayfair-based
dealer  Eskenazi Ltd.  with a price tag of about $25 million.  The Eskenazi porcelain vase, dating from the reign of the
Emperor Yongzheng, is painted with a dragon in purple enamels.
It is the sole survivor of a group of puce-decorated wares made
in the Imperial palace, Beijing, from 1723 to 1735, Eskenazi
said in its 50th anniversary catalog of Chinese pieces spanning
three millennia.  The Imperial rarity was one of five items sporting a red
dot at the dealership’s exhibition reception on Nov. 8.  “It sold to an Asian buyer very close to the asking
price,” gallery director,  Giuseppe Eskenazi , said in an
interview.  Jade Seal  Earlier yesterday at Bonhams, an 18th-century white jade
seal commissioned by the Qianlong Emperor sold for 2.7 million
pounds to a Beijing-based buyer in the room against competition
from two other Asian bidders.  The seal, carved with a dragon among cloud scrolls and
bearing the inscription “Self-Strengthening Never Ceases,” had
been estimated to sell for as much as 3 million pounds, said
Bonhams.  “There is no other work of art with which the emperor
would have been as personally associated as with his personal
seal,” Asaph Hyman, a senior specialist in Bonhams’s Chinese
art department, said on the company’s  website .  The auction record for a Chinese Imperial seal is the
HK$121.6 million for a white jade example at Sotheby’s Hong Kong
on Oct. 7.  Bonhams’s seal had been in a European private collection
since the 1960s. It is documented as having been made in 1793
for the Qianlong Emperor’s 80th birthday celebration and would
have been used by the monarch to make impressions in the corners
of his artworks, according to the  catalog .  A pair of 18th-century Chinese Imperial ivory bowls was the
surprise top lot at Christie's Nov. 9 auction, fetching 2.3 
million pounds against a high estimate of 800,000 pounds. The 
following day at Sotheby's, a 14th-century Yuan jar was bought 
by an Asian collector for a top price of 2.6 million pounds.   Asian Art in London 2010 runs though Nov. 13. Information:
 http://www.asianartinlondon.com/   ( Scott Reyburn  writes for Muse, the arts and culture
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Scott Reyburn  in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 