-- Asian Leaders Brace for Flood of Dollars as Group of 20 Meets
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2010-11-11T02:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/asian-leaders-brace-for-flood-of-dollars-as-group-of-20-meets-in-seoul.html
It’s called the impossible trinity,
and it’s an economist’s way of saying “you can’t have your cake
and eat it too.”  Conceived by Nobel Prize winner  Robert A. Mundell  and
International Monetary Fund economist Marcus Fleming in the
1960s, the hypothesis states that no country can have an open
capital account -- in which portfolio and direct investment
moves in and out of a country freely --, a fixed or closely
limited exchange rate, and an independent monetary policy. It’s
certainly possible to pursue two of the three policies
successfully.  If a country’s government tries all three, however,
something has to give.  The impossible trinity is a fascinating concept for
academics: Now it’s turning into a painful reality for the
central bankers and finance ministers of Asia.  As interest rates and growth have sagged in the U.S.,
investors have poured their money into the still immature
markets of Asia, placing pressure on currencies, driving asset
prices and stocks higher, and stoking inflation.  With officials headed to Seoul for the meeting of the Group
of 20 economies, the representatives of China, Korea, Indonesia,
and other countries were expected to voice their anxiety over
the challenges they face. They have already vented freely at the
Federal Reserve for its plan to spend another $600 billion on
asset purchases to lower U.S. rates even further.  ‘Worst Jobs’  Until recently, many Asian governments allowed free flows
of capital and kept their exchange rates fixed. To keep their
currencies from rising, they often printed money and bought
dollars with it. In effect, they adopted the easy-money policy
of the Federal Reserve.  Now, Asian policy makers are starting to realize that they
can’t have it all. “One of the worst jobs in the world next
year is being an Asian central banker,” said  Robert Subbaraman ,
Nomura Holdings’ chief economist for Asia excluding Japan.
“This ‘impossible trinity’ dilemma is starting to bite. They
are facing capital inflows that potentially can be very
destabilizing.”  Asia has attracted $2.3 billion of capital daily since
April 2009, according to DBS Group Holdings. Stock markets in
India, Indonesia, Malaysia, and the Philippines have reached
record levels.  The MSCI Emerging Market Asia Index  of stocks has
advanced more than 17 percent this year, compared with 9 percent
for the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index. All of the region’s
major currencies, except the greenback-pegged Hong Kong dollar,
have strengthened, even as policy makers across the region seek
to stem the gains to keep exports flowing.  ‘Impossible Trinity’  In India, where the central bank has raised interest rates
six times this year, officials acknowledge the dilemma: If they
jack up rates to smother inflation, they also lure foreign money
in search of double-digit returns. The outside money in turn
inflates prices in real estate and stocks, which forces the
central bank to push up rates even more.  “At the national level, we have to manage the impossible
trinity,”  Reserve Bank of India  Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  said
on Oct. 27 in Mumbai. “Managing exchange rates in the face of
volatile inflows entails a cost no matter what you do.”  To avoid another flood of foreign capital, the central
banks of Malaysia, Thailand, and Korea have paused in raising
interest rates. The central banks of Indonesia and the
Philippines haven’t lifted rates.  Capital Controls  Yet central banks may fall “behind the curve” should they
keep borrowing costs low, even as inflationary pressures
increase, says  Chetan Ahya , an economist at Morgan Stanley in
Singapore.  China held steady on rates until October. Now the
government may miss its goal of keeping inflation to 3 percent
this year,  Zhang Ping , head of the National Development and
Reform Commission, said in comments published Nov. 9.  Capital controls may be the only answer for some
governments. To make outside investors pause, Thailand last
month removed a 15 percent tax exemption for foreigners on
income from domestic bonds. On Oct. 29, Thai central bank
Governor  Prasarn Trairatvorakul  said he wouldn’t rule out
controls if the baht’s appreciation accelerates.  In South Korea, where a bank tax and a levy on financial
transactions are under consideration, central bank Governor  Kim Choong Soo  has said capital controls may be “useful.”
Indonesia’s central bank said it may extend a holding period for
foreign purchases of central bank notes to three months from
one. “We are going to see more capital controls,” says  Robert Prior-Wandesforde , head of India and Southeast Asia economics at
Credit Suisse in Singapore. “QE2 will just accentuate it.”  Above all, Asia does not want its economy affected by
decisions made in Washington, Subbaraman says. “We need to set
economic policy based on our own cycle.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  