-- Asian Currencies Strengthen as Increase in Yuan Gains Deters Intervention
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2010-11-11T09:31:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/asian-currencies-strengthen-as-increase-in-yuan-gains-deters-intervention.html
Asian currencies rose, led by South
Korea’s won and Taiwan’s dollar, on speculation a pickup in yuan
appreciation will make regional central banks more tolerant of
gains.  The People’s Bank of China set its reference rate for yuan
trading 0.31 percent stronger at a record 6.6242 per dollar, the
biggest jump since June. The currency was headed for its
steepest three-day rally since April 2007. Leaders from the
Group of 20 nations meet today and tomorrow in Seoul for talks,
a month after finance chiefs from the member states pledged to
avoid competitive devaluation.  “China has quite consistently appreciated the yuan heading
into G-20 meetings,” said  Vishnu Varathan , a Singapore-based
Asia economist at Capital Economics Ltd. “That gives a lot more
headroom for Asian currencies” to advance, he said.  The won rose 0.2 percent to 1,107.61 per dollar at the 3
p.m. close in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The Taiwan dollar climbed 0.2 percent to NT$30.532, the
Singapore dollar advanced 0.2 percent to S$1.2860, and the
Chinese yuan gained 0.16 percent to 6.6230.  China’s consumer prices rose 4.4 percent in October from a
year earlier, the biggest increase in two years, a statistics
bureau report released today in Beijing showed. The central bank
may allow faster yuan appreciation to curb inflation, said  Jun Ma , chief economist for Greater China at Deutsche Bank AG in
Hong Kong.  Capital Controls  G-20 nations including China are trying to forge an
agreement on currencies that goes beyond an accord reached by
finance ministers and central bank governors last month, the
group’s committee spokesman Kim Yoon Kyung said in Seoul today.  Capital inflows into Asia are “reasonable” and the region
is in a “much better” position to manage them than it has been
“at any time in the last several decades,” U.S. Treasury
Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said in an interview with
Singapore’s Straits Times newspaper, published today.  The Bank of Korea said today on its website any agreement
between G-20 nations won’t necessarily end currency disputes,
saying the Federal Reserve’s second round of quantitative easing
may cause asset bubbles in emerging markets. The Fed said last
week it will buy an extra $600 billion of Treasuries through
June, building on $1.7 trillion of asset purchases made between
December 2008 and March this year.  “A stronger Chinese currency can influence other Asian
currencies to strengthen against the dollar,” said Ha Joon Woo,
a foreign-exchange trader at Daegu Bank in Seoul. “That will
also make it easier for the Korean central bank to allow
appreciation of the won.”  Taiwan’s dollar climbed for a third straight day after the
United Daily News reported that billionaire George Soros’ hedge
funds are targeting the Taiwan dollar for trading, citing people
it didn’t identify. Michael Vachon, a spokesman for Soros in New
York, declined to comment.  Elsewhere, Indonesia’s rupiah fell 0.1 percent to 8,898,
the Malaysian ringgit was unchanged on 3.0915 and the Philippine
peso fell 1.1 percent to 43.84.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lilian Karunungan  in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 