-- Assurant Stock Price Target Cut by Credit Suisse
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2010-11-11T21:06:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/assurant-price-target-cut-by-misquith-on-risk-of-mortgage-bondholder-suits.html
Assurant Inc. , the insurer of
foreclosed homes, had its price target cut by Credit Suisse
Group AG on the risk that mortgage-bond investors may sue the
company and demand lower rates for property coverage.  Assurant dropped 11 percent on the New York Stock Exchange
yesterday after American Banker reported “evidence of abuses”
in the industry of so-called force-placed insurance. The rates
charged by Assurant and its competitors, which issue policies on
homes where distressed borrowers allow their original coverage
to lapse, allow mortgage servicers to profit at the expense of
homeowners and investors, the newspaper said.  Mortgage investors “are likely to demand that the
servicers negotiate better prices and terms with insurance
carriers like Assurant,”  Vinay Misquith , an analyst with Credit
Suisse, said late yesterday in a research report. “While
Assurant may have mitigating factors that could help in
defending against  lawsuits  from homeowners and investors, the
company will likely incur significant costs.”  Assurant fell 11 cents to $35.55 at 4 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. Misquith, who has a
“neutral”  rating  on the New York-based company, reduced his
12-month target price to $38 from $45.  Mortgage servicers hire providers of force-placed coverage
to shield bond investors from losses tied to storm damage or
vandalism. New York-based Assurant wins business by paying
commissions to servicers and in some cases sharing the profits
and losses on the policies it issues.  ‘The Glare’  “Intense political pressure or the glare of the public
spotlight could prompt some state insurance commissioners to
force rate reductions on Assurant,” Misquith said.  Assurant competes with Bank of America Corp.,  Munich Re  and
Australia’s  QBE Insurance Group Ltd.  Force-placed coverage costs
more than typical homeowners policies because the properties are
more prone to neglect.  Gene Mergelmeyer , president of Assurant’s
specialty unit, said yesterday in a conference call that the
company’s prices reflect the “unique risk” of the homes it
covers.  “Many of the properties we insure have a history of
multiple losses,” Mergelmeyer said.  Assurant got 25 percent of its revenue and  65 percent  of
its operating profit from the specialty property business, which
includes force-placed coverage, in the first six months of the
year, according to a company presentation. The firm also offers
 health insurance  and employee benefits.  ‘A Vulnerability’  Assurant said yesterday that its average premium is around
$2,000 on properties with an average value of about $180,000.
That compares with an $880 national norm,  Mark Hughes , an
analyst with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey Inc., said today in a
research report.  “The fact that this practice has endured for years with
the participation of sophisticated counterparties, the lenders,
implies the company is not running an exploitative operation,”
said Hughes, who has a “neutral” rating on Assurant. “This
high profitability still strikes us as a vulnerability, either
from select state regulators” or business partners that try to
negotiate better deals at Assurant’s expense.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  