-- Drugmakers May Lose as Merkel Bids to Break Price ‘Monopoly’
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2010-11-11T14:38:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/astrazeneca-drugmakers-may-face-added-german-price-pressures.html
Drugmakers face more than 2 billion
euros ($2.76 billion) in price cuts in Germany, their biggest
market in Europe, after lawmakers in Berlin approved the first
 controls  on the cost of innovative medicines.  The law, backed by the lower house today, gives companies a
one-year window to negotiate prices with insurers after
introducing new drugs, potentially affecting  Novartis AG ’s
multiple sclerosis treatment Gilenya and  AstraZeneca Plc ’s blood
thinner Brilinta among other medicines that haven’t been
approved yet in Europe. If no agreement is reached, the Health
Ministry would set a maximum price, and the drugs would undergo
a cost-benefit analysis by a semi-state agency.  “We are breaking the price monopoly of the pharma
industry,” Jens Spahn, a lawmaker with Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s Christian Democratic Union party who sits on
parliament’s Health Committee, told the lower house, or
Bundestag.  The deals that drugmakers strike with German insurers may
put pressure on sales elsewhere, because other countries use
German prices as a reference, said  Elmar Kraus , a Frankfurt-
based analyst for DZ Bank AG. Today’s curbs come on top of
temporary rebates and price freezes on drugs that the government
imposed last summer. Those measures will cost drugmakers 2.7
billion euros next year, according to the VFA, a Berlin-based
group representing 45 drug producers.  “Everyone is trying to save,” Kraus said in an interview.
“Some are waiting for the Germans. German drug prices have a
certain reference function for a range of other countries.”  Companies now generally can set prices for medicines that
offer an additional benefit for patients over similar treatments
or lower-priced generics.  Merkel’s Plan  The changes make up a central element of Merkel’s reform of
the health-care system in Germany. The government, faced with an
aging population and ballooning costs, is seeking to ward off an
estimated 11 billion-euro shortfall in the public insurance
system next year.  Drug spending by the statutory “sick funds” that insure
more than 70 percent of the country’s population rose 5.3
percent to 32 billion euros last year as companies increased
their prices for patent-protected medicines by 8.9 percent,
Health Minister  Philipp Roesler  has said, describing plans to
reduce drug costs as a “paradigm shift” for Germany. The drug
pricing plan will save 2 billion euros, the ministry has said.  Prices for generic drugs, many of which are already fixed
through mandatory discount contracts, fell 2 percent last year.  Germany, the world’s third-biggest drug market after the
U.S. and Japan, was one of the last countries in Europe in which
drugmakers were allowed to set prices for their products.
Today’s law will only affect drugs not yet approved for sale.  Bayer’s View  Bayer AG , Germany’s biggest drugmaker, is already selling
its anti-clot drug Xarelto for European hip and knee surgery
patients but has yet to win regulatory approval for people with
irregular heartbeats, the biggest part of what the company has
said could amount to more than 2 billion euros a year in sales.  It’s not clear how the law will affect Bayer’s new drugs,
Rolf Ackermann, a spokesman for the Leverkusen-based company
said in a telephone interview yesterday. The law being voted on
today would require drugmakers to negotiate with an association
that represents Germany’s public insurers, rather than
negotiating with each insurer individually. That puts
pharmaceutical companies at a disadvantage, he said.  “The coalition has promised market-oriented reforms and
more competition in the health care system,” he said. “This is
exactly the opposite -- a monopoly. It doesn’t have anything to
do with competition.”  ‘Open to Dialogue’  Also awaiting approval in Europe is AstraZeneca’s Brilinta,
set to compete with the $9.8-billion-a-year blood thinner Plavix
from Sanofi-Aventis SA and Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. A  European
Medicines Agency  panel recommended the medicine be cleared on
Sept. 24.  Laura Woodin , a spokeswoman for London-based AstraZeneca,
declined to comment yesterday on what impact the law might have,
saying the drug hasn’t yet been approved and the measure hasn’t
become law. Brilinta will be sold as Brilique in Europe.  “AstraZeneca is open to dialogue with all participants of
the German health care system to guarantee patient access to
innovative medicines,” Woodin said in a telephone interview.  It’s too soon to tell whether Novartis’s Gilenya, approved
in the U.S. in September and still under review in Europe, will
be affected,  Eric Althoff , a spokesman for the company in Basel,
Switzerland, said in an e-mail yesterday. The pill may take 13
percent of the market within the next year, analysts at Leerink
Swann & Co. said yesterday.  Insurance Premiums  Today’s step is among the final measure for a health reform
that was a pledge of Merkel’s campaign for re-election last
year. Merkel can also rely on her lower-house majority to back
an increase in health-care premiums to be voted on tomorrow.  The two laws are a scaled-back version of changes
originally proposed by Roesler, a member of Merkel’s Free
Democratic Party coalition partners. He championed a plan to
decouple premiums from income by introducing a single flat-fee
payment.  That plan was quashed by the Christian Social Union, the
Bavarian sister party of Merkel’s CDU. Instead, the government
plans to limit a supplemental contribution that insurers can
charge to 2 percent of wages, with any amount exceeding that to
be paid through tax revenue.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Naomi Kresge  in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net ;
 Patrick Donahue  in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  