-- ASX Says It Will `Cooperate Fully' in Competition Review of Singapore Bid
-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2010-11-11T00:29:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/asx-says-it-will-cooperate-fully-in-competition-review-of-singapore-bid.html
ASX Ltd., Australia’s main stock
exchange operator, will “cooperate fully” with the  Australian
Competition & Consumer Commission ’s review of Singapore Exchange
Ltd.’s proposed takeover.  The ACCC said on its website yesterday that it intends to
undertake a review that will scrutinize the deal’s impact on
“the development of competition between exchanges and
associated products or services.” The review will look at
potential impacts on entry to the Australian marketplace by Chi-
X Australia and other operators, it said.  “This development is part of the regulatory process,” ASX
spokesman  Matthew Gibbs  said today in an e-mail to Bloomberg
News. “ASX and SGX will cooperate fully with the ACCC and be
pleased to provide any requested information.”  On Oct. 25, Singapore Exchange offered to buy Australia’s
ASX Ltd. for A$8.4 billion ($8.4 billion) in a cash and share
deal that would create the world’s fifth-largest listed exchange
company. Based on SGX’s closing share price yesterday, the value
of the deal was A$8.1 billion. ASX shares fell 0.2 percent to
A$37.03 at 11:22 a.m. in Sydney today.  The ACCC review “is an anticipated part of the regulatory
process,” said  Magdalyn Liew , a spokeswoman for Singapore
Exchange. “We will extend full cooperation and necessary
information to ACCC in relation to the proposed merger.”  The bid also faces scrutiny from the Foreign Investment
Review Board, the Reserve Bank of Australia and the Australian
Securities and Investments Commission, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said
on Oct 27.  Political Opposition  Australian lawmakers including Greens party leader Bob
Brown have said they will block the proposed merger as it raises
national-interest concerns.  The Greens, whose votes Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  needs
to pass legislation, “will not be facilitating or supporting
this takeover,” Brown told reporters last month in Canberra,
while Opposition treasury spokesman  Joe Hockey  said the offer
was “of great concern.”  ASX Chief Executive  Robert Elstone  said at a media briefing
announcing the takeover that the merger was in the interests of
both countries, and that the companies are confident that
they’ll win regulators’ approval.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  