-- Australian Dollar Extends Biggest Weekly Loss Since August on Europe Debt
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2010-11-12T16:31:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/aussie-dollar-heads-for-biggest-drop-since-august-on-unemployment-china.html
The Australian dollar extended its
biggest weekly decline since August as mounting concern some
European countries will struggle to repay bondholders triggered
declines in assets related to economic growth.  The Aussie traded below parity with the greenback for a
second day on speculation European debt turmoil and improved
consumer confidence in America will shift demand toward assets
denominated in the U.S. currency. The New Zealand dollar added
to its steepest weekly decline in three months on speculation a
kiwifruit disease will hurt the nation’s exports.  “Risk appetite was heading lower again in overnight
trading, encouraging safe-haven demand for the U.S. dollar and
the yen,”  John Kyriakopoulos , Sydney-based head of currency
strategy at National Australia Bank Ltd., wrote in a research
note today. “Escalation in euro-zone periphery sovereign-debt
concerns would help keep the Australian dollar below $1.”  The Australian currency depreciated 0.7 percent to 99.11
U.S. cents at 11:25 a.m. in New York, from 99.79 U.S. cents
yesterday. The Aussie has dropped 2.4 percent this week in the
biggest decrease since a 2.8 percent drop during the five days
ended Aug. 13. New Zealand’s dollar slid 0.5 percent to 77.67
U.S. cents, extending its weekly drop to 2.3 percent.  New Zealand’s currency has fallen 1.4 percent against the
greenback since the government said on Nov. 8 a vine disease was
discovered in a North Island orchard.  U.S.  consumer  confidence increased in November for the
first time in three months. The Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan preliminary sentiment index rose to 69.3, the highest
level since June, from 67.7 in October.  Irish government bonds surged, driving yields down by the
most since the European Union crafted a 750 billion-euro
($1.03 trillion) bailout package in May, as Group of 20 leaders
held talks on the region’s debt crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Monami Yui  in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  