-- Australian Unemployment Rate Unexpectedly Jumps on More Workers
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2010-11-11T05:03:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/australian-employers-added-29-700-workers-jobless-rate-increasess-to-5-4-.html
Australia’s  unemployment rate 
unexpectedly jumped in October to a six-month high as the pool
of workers and job seekers swelled to a record, easing concern
that a labor shortage will drive up wages.  The  jobless   rate  rose to 5.4 percent last month from 5.1
percent in September, the statistics bureau said in Sydney
today. That exceeded the median forecast of 5 percent in a
Bloomberg News survey of 24 economists. The participation rate,
which measures the workforce as a percentage of the population
over 15 years old, climbed to 65.9 percent from 65.6 percent.  The Australian dollar fell after the report and traders
pared bets that the Reserve Bank of Australia will increase the
benchmark interest rate next month. Governor  Glenn Stevens  last
week boosted borrowing costs by a quarter percentage point to
4.75 percent, saying the economy has “relatively modest amounts
of spare capacity” and citing the risk of higher inflation.  “The participation rate has moved to a historic high,”
said  Su-Lin Ong , senior economist at RBC Capital Markets Ltd. in
Sydney. The rise in the jobless rate “doesn’t change the big-
picture view that the labor market is healthy and that’s
consistent with the RBA’s tightening bias.” She expects the
central bank to raise rates in the first quarter of next year.  The currency fell below parity with the U.S. dollar after
the report before rebounding. It was little changed at $1.0050
as of 3:27 p.m. in Sydney from $1.0053 in New York yesterday.  Rate Bets  Traders in futures contracts are betting on a 4 percent
chance the RBA will boost its key rate by a quarter point to 5
percent next month, according to Bloomberg calculations based on
interbank futures on the Sydney Futures Exchange at 3:23 p.m.  The bureau of statistics said today it had changed one of
the assumptions used to measure the population for the survey.
It said it is now using more timely data on net overseas
migration that will influence the estimates.  The number of people employed gained 29,700 from September,
today’s report showed. Full-time jobs declined 14,100 in October
and part-time employment rose 43,800, it showed.  Demand for workers is escalating as companies such as  BG
Group Plc  expand investment in the nation’s resources industry
to increase shipments to China.  Energy Jobs  BG Group, based in Reading, U.K., said last week it will
begin building a $15 billion liquefied natural gas venture in
Queensland state, generating 5,000 construction jobs. BG,
 Chevron Corp.,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc and ConocoPhillips are
among energy companies investing about A$200 billion in proposed
LNG projects in Australia.  The RBA has raised its overnight cash rate target seven
times since October 2009, in contrast with the U.S. Federal
Reserve’s policy of a benchmark rate near zero since December
2008. That divergence has contributed to a 12 percent increase
in the local dollar versus the U.S. currency this year.  The hiring surge threatens to boost inflation, which the
central bank aims to keep in a range of 2 percent to 3 percent.
The consumer price index in the third quarter rose 2.8 percent
from a year earlier, a government report showed last month.  Australia’s job advertisements in newspapers and on the
Internet climbed in October for a sixth straight month and the
nation’s Treasury department forecasts the unemployment rate
will fall to 4.75 percent by June next year.  Stevens said last week that “growth in wages has picked up
somewhat” and “some further increase is likely over the coming
year.” As a result, he said in a statement after the Nov. 2
rate increase, “the moderation in inflation that has been under
way for the past two years is probably now close to ending.”  Stronger Growth  The RBA, in a quarterly report on Nov. 5, reiterated its
forecast that  economic growth  will strengthen to 3.75 percent by
the end of 2011, climbing to 4 percent by the end of 2012.
Consumer prices will rise 2.75 percent through June 2012;
previously, the RBA had estimated inflation of 3.25 percent
through mid-2011.  Australia’s growth is propelled by surging shipments of
iron ore and coal to China that are boosting jobs in regions
such as Western Australia, even as household demand elsewhere is
cooling after seven interest-rate increases since October 2009.  Today’s report showed the unemployment rate in Western
Australia was 4.6 percent last month, up from 4.5 percent a
month earlier. The rates in Victoria, New South Wales and
Queensland states -- home to about three-quarters of the
country’s population -- were about 1 percentage point higher
than Western Australia.  Home-building approvals and retail sales were weaker than
economists forecast in September, and house-price gains
decelerated in the third quarter, reports published last week
showed. Consumer confidence declined in November to a five-month
low, according to a survey released yesterday.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  