-- Panamericano Bonds Worth Buying on Caixa Takeover Prospect, Standard Says
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2010-11-11T17:38:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/banco-panamericano-worth-buying-on-caixa-takeover-prospect-standard-says.html
Bonds sold by  Banco Panamericano SA ,
the lender that received a 2.5 billion reais ($1.5 billion)
rescue this week, are attractive because the bank will likely be
absorbed by state-owned Caixa Economica Federal, according to
Standard Bank New York Inc.  Future funding for Sao Paulo-based Panamericano will be an
“insurmountable obstacle,” prompting Caixa, which bought a 35
percent stake in the lender in December, to absorb the bank,
 Ruth Mazzoni , a corporate bond analyst at Standard Bank, wrote
in a report published yesterday.  “The bonds would become sovereign risk,” Mazzoni wrote in
the report. “Given that we see the default risk as very low, we
believe that current trading levels represent an opportunity.”  Panamericano’s 8.5 percent subordinated bonds due in 2020
traded at 97.8 cents on the dollar to yield 8.9 percent at 12:34
p.m. in New York, according to Trace. They have rebounded from
as low as 80 cents yesterday, Trace data show.  The lender is being investigated by the central bank after
its controlling shareholder, Grupo  Silvio Santos , borrowed 2.5
billion reais from the deposit insurance fund to cover potential
losses at the bank that it said were caused by accounting
“inconsistencies.”  Bonds sold by other mid-size Brazilian banks may suffer
because comments by the central bank yesterday “heightened our
concern that the Panamericano affair has opened a Pandora’s box
and that this is not a problem limited to Panamericano,”
Mazzoni wrote in the report.  The analyst rated debt sold by Banco Cruzeiro do Sul SA,
Banco BMG SA, Banco Industrial e Comercial SA and Banco Pine SA
as unattractive.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gabrielle Coppola  in New York at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  