-- Bank Rossii ‘Secret’ Currency War Steadies Ruble: Russia Credit
-- B y   E m m a   O ’ B r i e n   a n d   D e n i s   M a t e r n o v s k y
-- 2010-11-11T21:03:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/bank-rossii-secret-currency-war-steadies-ruble-russia-credit.html
Russia is curbing demand for its
currency and bonds without pursuing capital restrictions adopted
by countries from  Brazil  to Thailand.  The ruble gained 0.7 percent against the dollar since the
beginning of September, compared with a 2.3 percent increase in
the Brazilian real, a 6.4 percent rally for  South Africa ’s rand
and a 7.9 percent advance in the South Korean won. Net purchases
of Russian debt dropped by 7 percent since the end of August
compared with 0.2 percent in Brazil, amid a record $47 billion
of inflows into developing nations this year, data compiled by
Boston-based research firm EPFR Global show.  While Brazil raised a tax on foreigners’ purchases of bonds
and Thailand abandoned tax exemptions on their income from debt,
Bank Rossii Chairman Sergey Ignatiev is “quietly” manipulating
the dollar-ruble rate while publicly loosening six-year-old
controls of the  exchange rate , according to VTB Capital and
Otkritie Financial Corp. Central banks across emerging markets
are seeking to limit appreciation in what Brazilian Finance
Minister Guido Mantega called a “currency war” as near-record
low  interest rates  in the U.S.,  Europe  and  Japan  spur demand for
higher-yielding assets.  “It’s a secret currency war, they are still manipulating
the market rather than moving away as their statements to the
world suggest,” Otkritie’s Chief Economist Vladimir Tikhomirov
said by phone from Moscow yesterday. “While investors try and
work out what is actually going on they are pre-empting any
strength by keeping the ruble steady versus the dollar.”  Ruble Bonds  Russian government ruble bonds have lost 3.9 percent since
Oct. 8, when Deputy Finance Minister Dmitry Pankin warned of a
debt “bubble” in Russian markets.  Russia  is lagging behind the
1.3 percent gain in the local currency debt of developing
markets as a whole, data compiled by JPMorgan Chase & Co. show.  Bank Rossii has been buying and selling foreign currencies
to manage swings in the ruble that hurt exporters against a
basket of dollars and euros since February 2005. The bank
expanded the so-called floating corridor it allows the ruble to
trade freely within versus the basket twice last month as part
of a strategy to end intervention by 2012, First Deputy Chairman
 Alexei Ulyukayev  said at the time.  The ruble strengthened 0.2 percent to 30.58 per dollar by
the 5 p.m. close of Moscow trading yesterday. Russia’s currency
added 0.8 percent to 41.92 versus the euro, leaving it 0.5
percent stronger at 35.6830 against the basket.  Switching Focus  The bank has since switched its focus from the basket,
which is made up of about 55 percent dollars and 45 percent
euros, to the dollar, taking steps to keep the ruble between 30
and 31 per dollar to discourage speculators, said Alexei Moiseev, the chief economist and head of research in Moscow at
VTB Capital, the investment banking arm of Russia’s second-
largest bank VTB Group.  “The basket has become all but irrelevant,” Moiseev said
by e-mail yesterday.  The currency hasn’t breached that range since Oct. 11, when
it touched 29.9401. The ruble should be trading stronger than 30
per dollar, according to forecasts from Otkritie,  BNP Paribas (BNP) 
SA, Credit Agricole SA, Societe Generale SA, UBS AG and Deutsche
Bank AG, the world’s largest currency trader. Bank Rossii’s
interventions in the ruble totaled $5.1 billion last month, with
policy makers both buying and selling dollars and euros to
minimize the ruble’s movements versus the dollar, Tikhomirov
said, citing Otkritie’s traders.  Draining Reserves  The central bank, which drained Russia’s international
reserves by more than 33 percent managing its devaluation of the
ruble during the credit crisis, is a “peaceful organization”
that is becoming “marginal” on the currency markets, Ulyukayev
said last month. Barriers to long-term investment in developed
markets are responsible for the wave of “hot money” plaguing
emerging markets,  Arkady Dvorkovich , President Dmitry Medvedev’s
economics adviser, told reporters in Moscow on Nov. 8 before
leaving for the Group of 20 nations summit in  Seoul  this week.  Portraying the ruble as a more volatile, free-floating
currency while controlling the dollar-ruble rate is a
“deliberate exercise in obfuscation,” Douglas Busvine, an
analyst in Vienna at Medley Global Advisers, wrote in a research
report e-mailed Nov. 5. The approach has “successfully deterred
hot money inflows and carry traders” from Russia, he said,
referring to trades where funds borrowed in countries with lower
interest costs are invested where the returns are higher.  Ulyukayev didn’t respond to questions about the bank’s
intervention policy that were faxed and e-mailed Nov. 10.  Federal Bonds  Non-deliverable forwards, or NDFs, which provide a guide to
expectations of currency movements and interest-rate
differentials and allow companies to hedge, yesterday showed the
ruble at 30.8376 per dollar in three months.  Russia’s federal ruble bonds, or OFZs, have also declined,
with the yield on notes due 2016 rising 5 basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 7.22 percent since Oct. 8. The  Finance
Ministry  sold 6.2 percent of the OFZs offered in auctions Nov.
10, according to central bank data.  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps rose 7 basis points to 145
yesterday, down 72 points from this year’s peak of 217,
according to data provider CMA. The contracts pay the buyer face
value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a debtor fail to adhere to its agreements.  Bond Risk  Credit-default swaps for Russia, rated Baa1 by Moody’s
Investors Service, its third-lowest investment grade, cost 11
basis points more than contracts for  Turkey , which is rated four
levels lower at Ba2. Russia swaps cost as much as 40 points less
on April 20. Brazil stood at 101 points yesterday.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries rose 7 basis points to 212 points,
according to JPMorgan EMBI+ indexes. The difference compares
with 141 for debt of similarly rated  Mexico  and 176 for Brazil,
which is rated two steps lower at Baa3 by Moody’s.  Indonesia, Taiwan,  Thailand  and Turkey are openly buying
dollars in order to quell their strengthening currencies and
South Africa plans to boost its reserves arsenal with revenue
from taxes.  South Korea  is auditing banks’ foreign-currency
trading to shield the won from gains and the Mexican peso’s
biggest rally on record may prompt the central bank to cut
interest rates.  Raising Tax  Brazil, whose 10.75 percent benchmark interest rate is the
highest among major emerging markets, tripled a tax last month
that foreigners must pay to invest in its fixed-income
securities.  The weaker ruble spurred Augustus Asset Managers Ltd. to
sell most of its Russian holdings about a month ago, said  Paul McNamara , who helps manage $4.5 billion of emerging-market debt
at the London-based  fund manager . The ruble lost 1 percent
versus the dollar last month, the worst performer among European
emerging market currencies. The real weakened 0.3 percent in
October and the rand dropped 0.4 percent.’  “The key reason that the ruble has been weak is that
Russia just seems to be a less desirable destination for
capital,” McNamara said in a phone interview Nov. 4.  The average price for Russian ruble bonds traded on the
Micex exchange has fallen 0.14 to 95.65 rubles since Oct. 8,
according to MICEXCBI Index. The yield spread on Russian bonds
tumbled to 37 basis points below the average for emerging
markets yesterday, down from a 15-month high of 105 in February,
according to JPMorgan indexes.  Flows into emerging-market bond funds this year are already
four times the previous annual record set in 2005, according to
 Cameron Brandt , an EPFR Global analyst. The  Federal Reserve ’s
decision last week to inject a further $600 billion into the
U.S. financial system via a process known as quantitative easing
will send more hot money in the direction of developing markets,
Brazil’s Mantega said yesterday in Seoul.  Bank Rossii is playing “mind games” in which “confusion
is the point,” according to Medley’s Busvine. “Officials
appear broadly comfortable with the ruble’s softer tone.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma O’Brien in Moscow at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Denis Maternovsky in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  