-- Bank of America Said to Sell BlackRock Stake to Mizuho
-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m   a n d   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2010-11-12T02:07:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/bank-of-america-said-to-sell-blackrock-holding-to-japan-s-mizuho-financial.html
Mizuho Financial Group Inc. , Japan’s
third-biggest bank, agreed to buy a 2 percent stake in  BlackRock
Inc.  for $500 million, including shares sold by Bank of America
Corp., according to two people briefed on the transaction.  Mizuho will buy 2.45 million shares of the world’s largest
asset manager directly from Bank of America, said the people,
who asked not to be named because the information is private. It
also purchased shares in a  secondary offering  earlier this week.
After the transaction, Tokyo-based Mizuho will help distribute
BlackRock’s funds to Japanese investors, one of the people said.  The deal comes as Japan’s biggest banks are accelerating
asset purchases in Europe, North America and Asia as growth in
borrowing slows at home. Mizuho’s accord follows  Mitsubishi UFJ
Financial Group Inc. ’s negotiations unveiled last week with
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc to buy project-finance assets.  “Japanese megabanks are stepping up investment in mature
markets like the U.S. and U.K., where banks and companies still
recovering from the financial crisis are selling non-core
assets,” said  Takehito Yamanaka , a Tokyo-based analyst at MF
Global FXA Securities Ltd. “Investment in Asia -- where several
local regulators are tougher than in Europe and the U.S. --
would take more time for Japanese banks to reap decent returns.”  Mizuho Chief Executive Offer  Takashi Tsukamoto  is driving
an initiative unveiled in May dubbed its “Transformation
Program,” which aims to more than double profit to 500 billion
yen ($6.1 billion) by March 2013 from 239 billion yen in the
year ended March, helped by expanding businesses overseas.  Biggest Shareholders  Mizuho fell as much as 2.3 percent to 127 yen on the Tokyo
Stock Exchange. The stock has lost 27 percent in the past year,
while the  Topix Banks Index  has dropped 20 percent.  Masako Shiono , a Tokyo-based spokeswoman for Mizuho, declined to
comment. The deal was reported earlier by Nikkei English News.  BlackRock’s biggest shareholders, Bank of America and PNC
Financial Services Group Inc., sold $8.3 billion of the stock in
the Nov. 9 offering, part of an effort to reduce investments
outside their main business. Mizuho in 2008 invested $1.2
billion yen in Merrill Lynch & Co. before it was bought by Bank
of America.  Bobbie Collins , a spokeswoman for New York-based BlackRock,
declined to comment, as did  Jerry Dubrowski , a spokesman for
Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America.  BlackRock, based in New York, has dropped 26 percent this
year, giving it a $32.7 billion market capitalization.  September Boost  The firm, which went public in 1999, became the world’s
largest money manager last year with the $15.2 billion purchase
of Barclays Global Investors, the biggest seller of exchange-
traded funds. Assets rose 9.4 percent to $3.45 trillion in the
third quarter from the previous three months, helped by the best
September for U.S. stocks in 71 years and $15.6 billion in net
deposits.  Mitsubishi UFJ said in July it may spend more than 500
billion yen to acquire more U.S. banks, and examined about seven
lenders of similar size to California’s UnionBanCal Corp., which
the lender acquired in 2008.  Under the talks with RBS and the U.K. government, which
owns 84 percent of RBS, Mitsubishi UFJ may acquire a portfolio
of project-financing assets valued at about 4 billion pounds
($6.4 billion), according to two people with direct knowledge of
the matter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam  in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net ;
 Shigeru Sato  in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
 David Mildenberg  in Charlotte at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 