-- Bank of Korea Chief Says Rates `Considerably Low' Ahead of Policy Meeting
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2010-11-11T08:07:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/bank-of-korea-chief-says-rates-considerably-low-ahead-of-policy-meeting.html
Bank of Korea  Governor  Kim Choong Soo  said the nation’s benchmark interest rate is “considerably
low,” less than a week before policy makers meet to set
borrowing costs.  Kim  also revised up the bank’s inflation and economic
growth forecasts for this year in comments at the Group of 20
summit in Seoul today. Inflation will be 3 percent this year, he
said, higher than a July forecast of 2.8 percent, while growth
will be 6 percent against a previous prediction of 5.9 percent.  Accelerating  inflation  may intensify pressure on policy
makers to add to July’s 0.25 percentage point increase from a
record-low 2 percent, even as higher borrowing costs risk
stoking gains by the won that may imperil exports. Consumer
prices rose 4.1 percent in October, the fastest pace in 20
months, breaching the central bank’s ceiling of 4 percent.  “If the G-20 summit helps to cap the won’s rise and gives
room for capital controls, then the central bank may be able to
raise rates as early as next week,” said Oh Suk Tae, an
economist at SC First Bank Korea Ltd. in Seoul. “The biggest
hurdle is the growth-focused government, which insists on low
interest rates and a weak won.”  The won rose 0.2 percent to 1,107.61 per dollar today and
is up 6.8 percent this year, the second-biggest climb in Asia
excluding Japan. The Kospi stock index slid 2.7 percent,
plunging in the last minute of trading as the expiration of
options contracts spurred the largest-ever sales of equities by
foreign investors.  Inflation Goal  Kim said the inflation rate will accelerate to 3.4 percent
in 2011 due to “demand side pressure” from the economic
recovery. That left unchanged an earlier Bank of Korea forecast.
Economic expansion next year will be in the mid-4 percent area,
he said.  The central bank aims for consumer-price inflation of 2
percent to 4 percent on average through 2012.  Economic growth 
halved to 0.7 percent last quarter as the won surged the most in
Asia and goods shipments cooled.  The currency’s advance offers a possible damper for
inflation, though it also threatens trade gains in the export-
led economy. Kim said on Oct. 27 that the nation may consider
imposing capital controls to slow fund inflows pushing up the
won.  South Korea should further develop the capacity to absorb
external shocks and cope with the possibility of heightened
volatility in capital flows, Kim said in a statement today ahead
of his comments.  Group of 20 nations failed to resolve differences over
currency policies blamed for distorting global trade and
investment, hours before their leaders gather, a South Korean
official said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  