-- Bank of America Sells China Construction Bank Rights Offer to Temasek
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2010-11-11T15:38:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/bank-of-america-sells-china-construction-bank-rights-offer-to-temasek.html
Bank of America Corp.  sold its share
of  China Construction Bank Corp. ’s $9.2 billion rights offer to
 Temasek Holdings Pte , Singapore’s state investment company, as
the U.S. lender boosts capital to meet a pledge to federal
regulators.  Bank of America wouldn’t estimate its potential gain from
the sale of its rights to buy 1.79 billion CCB shares, said
 Jerry Dubrowski , a bank spokesman. “The proceeds count towards
the commitment we made to raise $3 billion” by Dec. 31 from
gains on asset sales, he said today in a phone interview. The
bank had accrued $1.9 billion in gains as of Sept. 30.  Bank of America owns 125.58 billion shares in CCB, or 10.95
percent, trailing only the Chinese government’s 57 percent
stake, CCB said last week. With a carrying value of $19 billion
on Sept. 30, the CCB stake makes up about 15 percent of the
Charlotte, North Carolina-based lender’s $126.4 billion in Tier
1 common equity. Temasek is CCB’s third-biggest investor with a
5.65 percent stake.  “It is assumed that Bank of America would like to see its
stake go down so it’s not a drag on their Tier 1 common ratio,”
 Jeff Harte , an analyst with Sandler O’Neill & Partners, said
today in an interview. New international rules on minimum
capital requirements under review by the Federal Reserve are
prompting banks to reduce holdings in other financial-services
companies, he said.  CCB, the world’s second-largest lender by market value,
 said  on Nov. 1 it will offer existing investors 0.7 share for
every 10 held at 3.77 yuan each in Shanghai and HK$4.38 in Hong
Kong. The Beijing-based Chinese bank announced the rights
offering in April.  Central Huijin Investment Co., which owns stock in CCB on
behalf of the Chinese government, has committed to participating
in the rights offer.  Stake Increased  Bank of America  in 2005 invested $3 billion for a 9.9
percent stake in CCB before the company’s initial public
offering. The U.S. bank later exercised its option to buy an
additional 11 percent, paying $9.2 billion.  With losses from U.S. credit card and housing loans
mounting, Bank of America last year sold its initial stake in
Construction Bank, reaping a pretax gain of $7.3 billion. The
bank remains a key strategic investment, Chief Executive Officer
 Brian T. Moynihan  said in a March visit to China.  The decision not to invest in the rights offering “won’t
affect positively or negatively our relationship with CCB,”
Dubrowski said.  Bank of America’s principal negotiator with the Chinese
previously was  Gregory Curl , the lender’s former director of
planning and strategy. Curl, 62, was a finalist last year to
succeed  Kenneth D. Lewis  as the bank’s CEO and left the company
earlier this year to become president of Temasek.  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net 
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 