-- Bank of America Asks Court to Dismiss Homeowners' Racketeering Lawsuit
-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s
-- 2010-11-11T17:15:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/bank-of-america-asks-court-to-dismiss-homeowners-racketeering-lawsuit.html
Bank of America Corp. , the biggest
U.S. lender, asked a federal judge to throw out a lawsuit
brought by foreclosed homeowners who accuse it of racketeering.  Dwayne Ransom Davis and Melisa Davis sued last month in
Indianapolis, claiming Bank of America “routinely” submitted
perjured affidavits to support  foreclosures . They lost their
Knightstown, Indiana, home last year.  The Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank, in papers filed
yesterday with U.S. District Judge  Jane Magnus-Stinson , said the
Davises were improperly using a federal court to attack a state
court proceeding and hadn’t shown they were injured.  “While plaintiffs claim they do not seek to overturn the
judgment in the foreclosure action, it is clear they are trying
to do precisely that,” in violation of federal law, Bank of
America told the court.  The Davises didn’t ask the court to reverse their September
2009 foreclosure. They said in their complaint that the use of
“robo-signers”, or people who sign affidavits attesting to
facts underlying foreclosures without actual knowledge of them,
constitutes racketeering.  They seek class-action, or group, status for anyone whose
home was taken under such circumstances since October 2006, and
compensatory damages, which would be tripled under U.S.
racketeering laws.  “Plaintiffs plead no facts to support their claim that the
result, i.e. a judgment of foreclosure, would have been any
different had the alleged inaccuracies in the underlying
affidavit been discovered in the state court proceeding,” Bank
of America said.  The case is Davis v. Countrywide Home Loans Inc., 10cv1303,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of Indiana
(Indianapolis).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 