-- Baoshan Keeps Prices Unchanged as Commodities Rally, Inflation Quickens
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-11T06:22:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/baoshan-keeps-prices-unchanged-as-commodities-rally-inflation-quickens.html
Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. , China’s
biggest publicly traded steelmaker, kept December prices for
most products unchanged from November as spot prices gained amid
a commodity rally and expectations inflation may quicken.  The prices for hot-rolled and cold-rolled products will be
maintained, the Shanghai-based company said today in a statement
on its  trading website , without giving the prices.  The Federal Reserve said on Nov. 3 it will buy an extra
$600 billion of Treasuries, exceeding a $500 billion median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey, to accelerate economic
growth, cut unemployment and avert deflation. Copper, zinc and
lead futures in London surged as the Fed’s decision boosted the
outlook for demand.  “Baoshan kept the prices unchanged probably to win more
orders in 2011,” said Hu Yanping, an analyst with researcher
UC361.com. “Steel prices rebounded in line with other
commodities as the Fed’s loose policy weakened the dollar.
Inflation expectations also upheld the prices.”  Baoshan Steel  gained as much as 0.8 percent to 7.33 yuan
and traded at 7.31 yuan as of 1:38 p.m. in Shanghai. The
benchmark Shanghai Composite Index gained 1.1 percent.  China Inflation  China’s  inflation  accelerated to the fastest pace in two
years in October, a statistics bureau report today showed.
Consumer prices rose 4.4 percent from a year earlier, boosted by
food costs. In September, prices rose 3.6 percent.  The  domestic average price  for hot-rolled steel coil, a
benchmark product, has climbed for eight straight trading days,
gaining a total 26 percent, according to data on the Bloomberg.  A purchasing managers’ index released by the nation’s
logistics federation rose to 54.7 in October, from 53.8 in
September, with input prices advancing the most in six months.
The rebound in input prices indicates inflation may quicken,
sustaining steel prices, Hu said.  Chinese provinces including Hebei, Shandong and Zhejiang
also started in September restricting power to mills to meet
energy-consumption targets, reducing steel supply. China’s steel
output dropped to 47.95 million metric tons in September, the
lowest level this year.  Steel inventories held by traders in China have fallen 24
percent to 14.1 million metric tons on Nov. 5 from 18.6 million
tons on March 5, the highest this year, according to Hu.  -- Helen Yuan . Editors:  Alan Soughley ,  Indranil Ghosh   To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 