-- Beverly Hills Chef Wolfgang Puck Set to Open London Restaurant Next Year
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2010-11-11T13:10:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/beverly-hills-chef-wolfgang-puck-set-to-open-london-restaurant-next-year.html
Wolfgang Puck , the Californian chef
whose dining empire includes Spago in Beverly Hills and airport
outlets across the U.S., is to open a restaurant in London.  Cut, on the ground floor of the  Dorchester Collection ’s new
 45 Park Lane  hotel, will be the first European eatery for Puck,
61, who was born in Austria and trained at Maxim’s in Paris,
Hotel de Paris in Monaco and L’Oustau de Baumaniere in Provence.  The menu  will be based on Cut in the Beverly Wilshire, a
contemporary version of the classic steak house, serving dishes
such as Kobe beef short ribs with Indian spices. Puck is also
opening a Cut in Singapore. The London venue, to start serving
next year, comes before he has opened a restaurant in New York.  “New York and London are the two biggest cities for dining
in the Western world right now,” Puck said in a telephone
interview. “If the deal had been right, I would have gone to
New York, and we were very close a few times to doing New York,
but it didn’t happen. And London has some great restaurants.  “ Elton John  comes to Cut and says it’s his favorite
restaurant in the whole U.S., and I thought, it seems the
English like what we do. Michael and Shakira Caine were in, too,
and they said they will come when we are in London.  Puck says he hasn’t yet tried Goodman or Hawksmoor, two of
London’s most successful steak houses, but he will visit the
city next week to work on Cut and plans to return each month in
the first year or two of operation. Does he feel like he’s
coming home to Europe or is he a U.S.-based chef branching out
in London, like  Daniel Boulud , who opened Bar Boulud this year?  Beverley Hills  “It feels both ways,” he said. “When I’m in Europe, it
feels good to be back, but I’ve lived in the same place since
1975 and Los Angeles is the place I know best. I opened my first
restaurant in Beverly Hills. I wasn’t influenced by Daniel
because we decided around the same time to open in Europe.  “I don’t have a plan right now for any more restaurants in
Europe but we’ll see what happens. London will certainly be our
base if we do decide to go elsewhere.”  Puck will operate the restaurant rather than owning it, and
said he was happy to work with the Dorchester Collection because
the luxury hotel chain’s customers were similar to the diners in
his Fine Dining Group, which includes Spago, Cut, Chinois and
Wolfgang Puck Pizzeria & Cucina.  His other companies are Wolfgang Puck Catering, which
handles big awards ceremonies in Los Angeles, such as the
Oscars; and Wolfgang Puck Worldwide Inc., which includes fast-
casual Wolfgang Puck Bistros, Expresses and Cultural Cafes, as
well as consumer products such as cookware, pizzas and soups.  Global Ambitions  Puck’s London plans have been one of the worst-kept secrets
in the food business since he told me he was in preliminary
talks to open at 45 Park Lane when we had lunch with Alain
Ducasse at the Dorchester in January. It’s only today that the
hotel group and Puck are making the official announcement.  “It was about two years ago that I had a meeting with my
partners in the fine-dining business,” he said. “We thought,
everyone else is expanding all over the world, so maybe we could
expand overseas to create a global brand.”  The head chef in London will be David McIntyre, who helped
open Spago and Cut in Beverly Hills before starting his own
restaurant in San Diego. There’s no opening date for the London
venue yet. The hotel says it will be in the spring.  The  Dorchester Collection  groups luxury hotels in the U.S.,
Italy, France and the U.K., including the Plaza Athenee in
Paris, the Beverly Hills Hotel and the New York Palace.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Richard Vines  in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or Richardvines on
 http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 