-- BNP Paribas, HP-Oracle, KWL, Foreclosure Probe in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2010-11-11T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/bnp-paribas-hp-oracle-kwl-foreclosure-probe-in-court-news.html
BNP Paribas SA  and  Groupe Credit
Agricole  are confronting three former bond traders at a Paris
criminal trial on claims the men orchestrated deals in the 1990s
to inflate bond prices and pocket the profits.  The traders, who worked for what are now units of the
banks, are accused by Paris prosecutors of abuse of trust and
fraud after a nearly 12-year probe found as much as 200 million
French francs ($34 million) was siphoned into overseas funds for
their use.  An investigation found the men “deliberately hid what was
being done from superiors,” Judge Agnes Quantin said in opening
the four-day trial Nov. 8.  The trial spotlights the practices of bond traders a decade
before Jerome Kerviel’s unauthorized derivatives trading cost
France’s second-largest bank,  Societe Generale SA , 4.9 billion
euros. Testimony at times echoed Kerviel’s June trial, with two
traders asserting they followed “normal” practices while the
banks said they had no idea what was happening.  “Mr. Kerviel was just one man,” Claude Bendel, a lawyer
for the Credit Agricole units, said yesterday. While the affairs
are “very closely related,” he said, “here we are in the
presence of a gang -- no one acted alone.”  Defendants Ariel Cheminaud, 46, Noureddine Benameur, 49,
and Olivier Moulines, 49, deny the charges, and claim they never
collaborated or benefited on the trades. The men face as much as
375,000 euros in fines and five years in jail if convicted.  “These transactions were perfectly normal,” Cheminaud, a
broker for CPRI, part of  Credit Agricole  since 2000, said in
testimony Nov. 8.  The men traded illiquid bonds, selling them at a slightly
higher price to intermediaries in the U.K. that were acting for
offshore accounts, according to the investigation. Those
offshore groups, which the men allegedly controlled, then sold
the bonds back to the traders for even more, producing profits
that were hidden in the offshore funds.  “These intermediaries were useless,” BNP Paribas lawyer
Arnaud de la Cotardiere said. They were “a fake way to send the
profits abroad.”  For more, click here.  HP’s Apotheker, Like Carmen Sandiego, Focus at Trial  The hottest new game at the  Oracle Corp. -SAP AG
infringement trial has become “Where in the World is Leo
Apotheker?”  Oracle lawyers want to put the former SAP chief executive
officer on the stand in federal court in Oakland, California, to
testify about the conduct of a now-defunct  SAP  unit that
illegally downloaded Oracle’s copyrighted software. Apotheker, a
22-year SAP veteran, was on the software maker’s executive board
when it bought TomorrowNow in 2005, and he oversaw the unit’s
sales, according to court documents and trial testimony.  Apotheker, who resigned from SAP in February, was hired by
 Hewlett - Packard Co.  in September and was to start as CEO on Nov.
1. HP has refused to accept papers seeking to call Apotheker to
the stand, and Oracle attorneys have said they can’t find him.  “We are trying real hard to find him and he’s trying real
hard not to let us find him,” David Boies, Oracle’s lead
attorney at the trial, said Nov. 8. “We’ve got to find him, and
we’ve got to find him in California.”  Apotheker gave an interview to the Nikkei business daily on
Nov. 5, published in Japanese a day later, that said he was in
Tokyo.  Redwood City, California-based  Oracle , which has a video of
sworn testimony that Apotheker gave its lawyers in 2008, says
it’s important for the jury in Oakland to hear live testimony
from him. Oracle claims Apotheker, 57, “was at the center of
the infringement” and “personally approved” the activities of
the Bryan, Texas-based TomorrowNow software maintenance unit,
Boies said in a news conference outside the courthouse in
Oakland.  Oracle, the  second-largest maker  of software for business
applications behind Walldorf, Germany-based SAP, is seeking
damages of as much as $2 billion in the trial.  HP said Nov. 3 that Apotheker had limited knowledge of
TomorrowNow. Oracle is trying to harass him and interfere with
his new role at HP, said Mylene Mangalindan, a spokeswoman for
the Palo Alto, California-based company, in an e-mailed
statement on Nov. 3.  The case is Oracle Corp. v. SAP AG, 07-01658, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  For more, click here.  Ex-Leipzig Utility Manager Tried Over Deal With UBS  The former head of a German municipal utility must stand
trial over alleged bribes connected to collateralized debt
obligation transactions with  UBS AG  and other banks, a court
ruled.  Klaus Heininger, the former managing director of KWL-
Kommunale Wasserwerke Leipzig GmbH, will be tried starting Nov.
26 on charges of accepting bribes, breach of trust, falsifying
financial statements and tax evasion, the Leipzig Regional Court
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. Two other suspects,
charged with bribing Heininger, will also be defendants in the
case.  “Heininger allegedly accepted considerable monetary
advantages in order to close highly risky agreements in the name
of KWL, which may have led to a default risk of 280 million
euros ($384 million),” the court said.  KWL in February filed a suit in Leipzig, Germany, against
UBS, Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg and  Depfa Bank Plc  to
invalidate the CDO transactions in which KWL assumed guarantees
for unsecured loans. The utility claims that the transactions
were closed without proper authorization.  Uwe Freyschmidt, Heininger’s lawyer, didn’t reply to a call
and an e-mail seeking comment. KWL spokesman Jochen Endle
declined to comment. UBS and the other banks aren’t accused of
wrongdoing in the criminal case.  UBS sued KWL in January in London over the issue. The
London High Court of Justice  ruled  Oct. 15 that it can hear the
UBS suit because the transactions fall under English law.  Heininger, who was fired last year and arrested in
February, may have evaded 1.6 million euros in taxes because he
didn’t declare the alleged bribes as income, the court said.  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here. For the
latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Foreclosure Probe on ‘Fast Track,’ Iowa’s Miller Says  The investigation by attorneys general in 50 U.S. states
into banks’ foreclosure practices is on “a fast track” and any
resolution might involve multiple settlements, Iowa Attorney
General Tom Miller told Bloomberg News’ Margaret Cronin Fisk.  “We’d like to resolve this sooner rather than later,”
Miller, who is leading the attorneys general task force, said in
an interview. “We want to move quickly if we can, but not so
quickly that we don’t do it right.”  A global settlement of the task force investigation is
unlikely, said Miller, 66, who also leads a separate foreclosure
prevention group of state attorneys general. “It would be one
bank at a time.” Miller, who was first elected attorney general
in 1978 and whose successes include $809 million from two
earlier settlements over home loans, didn’t speculate on when or
how this investigation might be resolved.  All 50 states on Oct. 13 announced the coordinated inquiry
into whether banks and loan servicers used false documents and
signatures to justify hundreds of thousands of foreclosures. The
probe came after  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and  Ally Financial Inc. ’s
GMAC mortgage unit said they would stop repossessions in 23
states where courts supervise home seizures and  Bank of America
Corp.  froze foreclosures nationwide.  At least 19 states, including Iowa and Texas, are
conducting separate investigations to determine whether state
laws were broken. Some began investigations months before the
coordinated nationwide probe was announced.  States have asked lenders to halt foreclosures, requested
documents and sought better home-loan modification procedures.
Ohio’s attorney general sued, accusing Ally Financial of
consumer fraud.  Some lenders have acknowledged that employees may have
completed court affidavits without confirming their accuracy. In
December, a GMAC employee said in a deposition in a foreclosure
case in West Palm Beach, Florida, that his team of 13 people
signed about 10,000 documents a month without verifying the
accuracy of the information in them.  For more, click here.  Judge Tells ESun to Mediate Casino Dispute With Investors  A Hong Kong judge told an  eSun Holdings Ltd.  unit and its
partners in a Macau, China, casino project including  Oaktree
Capital Management LP  and Silver Point Capital LP to settle
their dispute through mediation.  Any unreasonable refusal to try to settle would result in a
reduced award at the end of a trial, High Court Judge A.T. Reyes
said at a hearing yesterday on petitions by each partner for the
other to be ordered to drop their interest in the project.  ESun unit East Asia Satellite Television (Holdings) Ltd.
and New Cotai LLC, owned by Oaktree, Silver Point and former  Las
Vegas Sands Corp.  executive David Friedman, announced plans for
a $4 billion casino complex in 2007. East Asia and New Cotai are
now suing each other for hindering the development of the
project.  “Instead of the parties sitting at a table arguing, you
have someone come in who tries to help the parties perhaps see
it from a different perspective,” said Charles Allen, an
accredited mediator based in Hong Kong.  Parties who don’t make a reasonable effort to resolve
disputes in mediation when directed to do so can have legal
costs deducted from any award, according to the court’s rules,
he said.  Friedman declined to comment after yesterday’s hearing,
citing the ongoing litigation.  David Goh, a lawyer for eSun, said the company is
discussing the prospect of mediation with its legal advisers and
declined to comment further.  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here. For the latest new
suits news, click here. For copies of recent civil complaints,
click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 