-- Boeing Studies 787 Fire, Evaluates Schedule Effect
-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2010-11-11T22:12:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/boeing-studies-787-fire-as-schedule-effect-too-early-to-tell.html
Boeing Co.  should know “fairly
quickly” whether this week’s fire aboard a 787 Dreamliner will
affect the plane’s entry into service, which is almost three
years late, Chief Executive Officer  Jim McNerney  said today.  All six test jets have been grounded indefinitely while
Boeing analyzes data from the Nov. 9 emergency landing in Texas.
The fire began in a power-control panel in an electrical-
equipment bay that is part of the jet, not in flight-test gear,
 Scott Fancher , the 787 program chief, said yesterday.  “We’re going to have to evaluate what the corrective
action is and what schedule impact there might be,” Fancher
told reporters in Everett, Washington, overlooking the 787
factory floor. “It’s too early to have that information.”  Fancher declined to say how much wiggle room Chicago-based
Boeing has in its timetable to start deliveries of the
Dreamliner by the first quarter of next year. McNerney, speaking
at the Wings Club in New York, said further details weren’t yet
available. The 787’s commercial debut has been delayed six times
as Boeing struggles with new composite-plastic materials, parts
shortages, redesign work and a greater reliance on suppliers.  Analyzing flight data from the plane will take several
days, Boeing said yesterday. The company has sent about a dozen
other engineers and flight-test personnel to Laredo, Texas,
where the plane remains for the investigation.  Electrical Systems  The 787 test jets are based in Seattle and fly around the
world in search of various weather conditions for tests required
by the Federal Aviation Administration before the plane can
carry passengers. The Laredo plane’s role is to certify
electrical systems, autopilot controls, avionics, propulsion,
and stability and control.  Even in a best-case scenario, with no fundamental
electrical flaws, further delays are “inevitable” because it
will be difficult to keep testing with repairs under way, said
 Douglas Harned , an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in
New York.  Fancher said engineers haven’t yet seen anything to suggest
a fundamental design issue with the plane’s new electrical
system, which is built by  United Technologies Corp. ’s Hamilton
Sundstrand unit. The Dreamliner uses five times as much
electrical power as traditional airliners to save on  fuel .  “A fire is a serious event,” Fancher said. “We’ve not
seen a failure like this on a 787 before.”  Boeing  extended declines since the fire, falling $1.70, or
2.5 percent, to $65.37 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading.  The shares  have gained 21 percent this year.  All Nippon Order  All Nippon Airways Co. , set to be the first 787 operator,
said today that it still expects to get its first jet in
February.  “There is no change to the delivery schedule,” President
 Shinichiro Ito  said in Tokyo at a regularly scheduled press
briefing. “We are watching 787 developments closely.”  A power-control panel on the 787 must be replaced, and
further inspections are under way, Fancher said. The fire was
extinguished within the equipment bay, thanks to non-flammable
materials, and didn’t spread as the plane approached the  Laredo
airport  at the end of a test flight, Fancher said.  While some flight-deck displays flickered and power systems
were disrupted, pilots didn’t lose their primary controls,
Fancher said. The pilots felt that they remained in command of
the aircraft, he said.  A turbine spun by onrushing air deployed from the bottom of
the jet to provide backup power, Fancher said. The turbine is
triggered automatically under “a number of conditions,” and
its activation doesn’t necessarily mean all power was lost, he
said.  2,300 Flight Hours  “We do not believe this will prove to be a major redesign
issue, given the 2,300 flight hours accumulated in the flight-
test program and years of development and lab testing by Boeing
and related suppliers,”  Peter Arment , an analyst with Gleacher
& Co. in Greenwich, Connecticut, wrote today.  A crew of 42 pilots, engineers and maintenance workers were
on the flight to monitor the efficiency of the plane’s system
for generating nitrogen, an inert gas pumped into fuel tanks as
they empty to curb fire risks. They all safely evacuated down
the plane’s emergency slides after it landed, and the only
injury was one twisted knee, Fancher said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susanna Ray  in Everett, Washington, at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  