-- Bolsa Mexicana Changes Rules to Increase Trading by Foreigners, CEO Says
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2010-11-11T23:23:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/bolsa-mexicana-changes-rules-to-increase-trading-by-foreigners-ceo-says.html
Bolsa Mexicana de Valores SAB ,
operator of Mexico’s main stock and derivatives exchanges, has
changed rules to make it easier for foreign trading firms to buy
and sell from outside the nation.  The exchange operator is introducing market access services
to attract more firms such as U.S. high-frequency traders, who
already facilitate more than 20 percent of equities volume in
Mexico, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Luis Tellez  said
today in an interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York.
Tellez said he sees the proportion of trading handled by those
firms rising to about 50 percent in the next two years.  Computer-driven traders such as Getco LLC have supplanted
human market makers in the U.S., the world’s biggest equity
market, as the dominant providers of liquidity. Luring those
companies is a necessary step for any modern equity market
looking to attract listings, said Tellez, who added that he
didn’t know which American high-frequency trading firms have
started doing business via brokers in Mexico.  “We do welcome them,” Tellez said. “They provide
liquidity. We’re making their lives simpler.”  The traders are also helpful to pension funds, who are
trading more frequently, Tellez said. Mexico privatized its
social security system in 1997. Pension funds were allowed to
invest in initial public offerings and individual stocks for the
first time last year.  Mexico’s Biggest IPO  Tellez’s exchange just handled Mexico’s biggest IPO. OHL
Mexico SAB, a unit of Madrid-based construction company Obrascon
Huarte Lain SA, raised 9.7 billion pesos ($797 million)
yesterday.  In September the exchange altered the systems Mexican
brokers use to grant market access to high-frequency traders,
enabling them to manage risks associated with each client’s
activity, said  Jorge Alegria , senior vice president for markets
and information. His company expects colocation, or the
placement of traders’ computers near the exchange’s systems, to
proliferate in the next year, he said. The Mexican venue began
offering the service in 2009.  The exchange has also added a type of order that allows
firms to peg their buy or sell interest to the prevailing price,
eliminating the need for them to update their trading requests.
Alegria said this type of order is used by firms seeking to
trade electronically in fast-moving markets.  FIX Messaging  The Mexican exchange has also adopted standardized message
formats common in the U.S. to increase trading in its stock
market. The use of so-called FIX messaging allows users to
simplify the computer code they write for specific markets and
permits orders to be processed more easily. The FIX, or
financial information exchange, protocol is a language designed
in 1992 to facilitate automated trading of financial products.  Rules for trading blocks of shares on the exchange were
also recently altered to satisfy institutions’ desires to trade
larger orders immediately, said Javier Artigas, senior vice
president for strategic planning. The trades will no longer be
delayed for 20 seconds while brokers at the exchange decide if
they want to participate in the transaction.  The Mexican exchange is developing a new trading platform
and computer matching engine to execute buy and sell requests,
Tellez said. The system should be completed by the end of 2011.
When it’s available, the exchange expects to allow non-displayed
or dark orders so investors can seek trades without disclosing
their intentions in advance. In Mexico all trades must take
place on an exchange.  CME Group  An order routing arrangement with Chicago-based  CME Group
Inc. , the operator of the world’s largest futures exchange, is
expected to boost derivatives volume on Bolsa Mexicana’s MexDer
by giving investors new products to trade starting in the first
quarter of next year.  The deal made CME the exclusive provider of derivatives
order routing services to Bolsa Mexicana outside Latin America
while the Mexican exchange will be the country’s only venue
offering the services to the Chicago-based company. CME took a
1.9 percent stake in March as part of the deal.  “We want to increase activity for Mexican products,”
Tellez said. “The biggest business challenge we have is to have
more activity within our market, which we have the potential to
do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nina Mehta  in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 