-- Bristol-Myers, Akamai, P&G: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2010-11-11T12:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/bristol-myers-akamai-bt-group-imagesbazaar-p-g-intellectual-property.html
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.  sued Apotex
Inc. to prevent sales of a generic version of the blood-cancer
drug Sprycel in the U.S.  Apotex, based in Toronto, is seeking U.S. Food and Drug
Administration approval to sell a copy of the drug, according to
a lawsuit filed Nov. 8 in federal court in Trenton, New Jersey.
Bristol-Myers said a generic version would infringe four patents
and is asking for a ruling that would block approval until the
patents expire. Three end in 2020 and the fourth expires in
2025, according to the FDA’s website.  Sprycel, first approved by regulators in 2006, generated
$407 million in sales for the first nine months of this year,
New York-based Bristol-Myers said Oct. 26. That includes $127
million in U.S. sales, up 40 percent from a year earlier, the
company said. The drug is marketed with  Otsuka Pharmaceutical
Co.  of Tokyo and competes with  Novartis AG’s  Gleevec.  Bristol-Myers won U.S. approval last month to expand use of
the product for patients newly diagnosed with Philadelphia
chromosome positive chronic myeloid leukemia, a rare form of
blood cancer tied to a genetic abnormality.  Officials with closely held Apotex didn’t immediately
return e-mails seeking comment. The lawsuit is standard under
federal drug law to clarify patent rights while the FDA is
considering the application.  The case is Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. v. Apotex Inc.,
10cv5810, U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey (Trenton).  Akamai, MIT Accuse Startup Cotendo of Infringing Web Patents  Akamai Technologies Inc. , the provider of computing
services that speed delivery of online content, accused startup
competitor  Cotendo Inc.  of using the company’s patented
technology without permission.  “Cotendo is a relative late-comer to the content-delivery
services market,” Akamai said in a patent-infringement
complaint filed in federal court in Boston Nov. 9. “In an
effort to compete against Akamai as a low-cost provider,
defendant Cotendo has implemented Akamai’s inventive systems and
methods for content delivery,” the company said in its
pleadings.  AT&T Inc. , the largest U.S. phone company, is integrating
Cotendo technology into its network, according to an Oct. 12
note to clients from Richard Fetyko, an analyst at Merriman
Capital in New York. That may challenge Akamai’s business and
increase the competitive market in 2011, he said.  Closely held Cotendo, founded in 2008, is funded by Sequoia
Capital, Benchmark Capital and Tenaya Capital. The company’s
dynamic site-acceleration product, designed to make websites
work faster, is “an attempt to sell services that embody
Akamai’s inventions,” Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Akamai
said in the complaint.  Officials with Sunnyvale, California-based Cotendo had no
immediate comment on the complaint.  Akamai filed the lawsuit together with the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology. One patent, for a way to host and
distribute content over the Internet, was issued in April to
MIT, and Akamai is the exclusive licensee. The other patent,
related to communications between Web clients, was issued in
2004 to Netli Inc., which Akamai bought in 2007.  The lawsuit seeks unspecified cash compensation and an
order that Cotendo be barred from using the inventions.  The case is Akamai Technologies Inc. v. Cotendo Inc.,
10cv11921, U.S. District Court, District of Massachusetts
(Boston).  USPTO Extends Expedited Processing for ‘Green’ Tech Applications  The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office has extended its Green
Technology Pilot Program that was originally set to expire Dec.
8, according to a patent office  statement .  Under this program, applications related to so-called
“green” technology are eligible for expedited processing.
Already 790 applicants are being given this special handling
and, from that group, 94 patents have already been issued.  Under the expanded pilot program, the first 3,000
applications filed on or before Dec. 31 that qualify for special
status will be given expedited examinations. All who apply for
this program must state how the application is related to either
the development of a renewable energy source or energy
conservation, or to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  BT, TalkTalk Win Permission for Court Review of Piracy Law  BT Group Plc  and  TalkTalk Telecom Group Plc  won permission
to have the U.K.’s digital-piracy legislation reviewed by a
court in an effort to avoid investing in complying with a law
that may be unenforceable.  The companies received consent for a hearing on the issue
from the High Court in London yesterday. They sought a review in
July, arguing that provisions in the Digital Economy Act
received “insufficient scrutiny” before the previous
government dissolved parliament.  “We are pleased that the court has recognized that our
concerns about the copyright infringement provisions in the
Digital Economy Act should be considered in a full hearing,” BT
spokesman Jon Carter said yesterday in an e-mail.  The law, passed this year under the former Labor
government, is designed to prevent illegal file sharing of
television programs, films and music by forcing Internet service
providers to block some users. BT and TalkTalk may invest “tens
of millions of pounds in new systems and processes” to monitor
Internet users and block connections, only to find the law is
unenforceable, the companies said in July.  ImagesBazaar Accuses Business School of Infringing Copyrights  ImagesBazaar , an archive of Indian stock photography, filed
a copyright infringement suit against an Indian school that
offers programs in financial management.  The suit, filed in district court in Delhi, is against the
 BLB Institute of Financial Marketing , which is accused of using
Images Bazaar photos without permission, according to an Images
Bazaar  statement .  BLB allegedly used the photos on its website and in
newspaper advertising, according to the statement.  Under Indian law, copyright infringement can be both a
civil and criminal matter, and a defendant convicted of
infringement faces a potential jail term.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trademark  Procter & Gamble Sued for Infringement Over ‘Web Celeb’  Procter & Gamble Co. , the world’s largest consumer-products
company, was sued for trademark infringement by a California
company that operates an online social marketplace for
independent music and its fans.  Webceleb Inc.  of San Diego has used the domain name
webceleb.com since March 2007, according to the complaint filed
Nov. 9 in federal court in San Diego. The company said it
experienced “an unexpected spike” in the number of visitors to
its site in October 2010.  The increase in visitors wasn’t associated with any of its
own promotions and “did not result in typical site exploration
or any significant increase in revenues,” according to court
papers.  Webceleb said it discovered that Procter & Gamble was
promoting a category for the People’s Choice award show known as
“Web Celeb.” The San Diego company said there is now
“widespread consumer confusion” about its trademark
“Webceleb,” and, as a result, it’s losing profit, market share
and sales.  The company asked the court to bar Cincinnati-based Procter
& Gamble’s use of the term “web celeb,” and for awards of
money damages -- including profits the consumer-products company
derived from its alleged infringement -- attorney fees and
litigation costs. Webceleb alleged that the infringement is
deliberate and asked that the damages be tripled as a result.  The company is represented by Jonathan Hangartner of X-
Patns APC of La Jolla, California.  The case is Webceleb Inc. v. Procter & Gamble Co., 3:10-
cv-02318-DMS-NLS, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
California (San Diego).  Infosys Gets Affirmative Trademark Ruling From High Court  Infosys Technologies Ltd. , India’s Bangalore-based software
exporter, will be permitted to bring its claim of exclusive
ownership of the “Infosys” trademark’ to that country’s IP
tribunal, India’s Economic Times  reported .  India’s Supreme Court set aside an earlier decision from
the Intellectual Property Appellate Board, which had rejected
the Infosys claim to exclusivity, the newspaper reported.  According to the Economic Times, the case stems from a
dispute between Infosys and Calcutta-based Jupiter Infosys,
which had used the word “Infosys” in a trademark since 1955.  Jupiter had claimed Infosys was using the term only in a
narrow range of services and had sought the right to use it for
other categories, according to the newspaper.  For more trademark news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  U.S. Says Ex-Goldman Programmer’s Trial Needs to Be Closed  The government has asked that the trial of former  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc.  computer programmer Sergey Aleynikov be held
partly behind closed doors, saying he may disclose the firm’s
trade secrets “in great detail.”  Aleynikov was arrested in July 2009 and indicted Feb. 11 in
what a federal prosecutor said was the “most substantial”
theft that New York-based  Goldman Sachs  could recall. The trial
is scheduled to begin Nov. 29 before U.S. District Judge Denise
Cote in New York.  In court papers, Aleynikov said he will argue that the
material he is accused of stealing isn’t a trade secret. He also
said he will discuss “either in cross-examination or in a
defense case, the way in which the allegedly stolen components
interacted with the rest of Goldman Sach’s high-frequency
trading system.”  Prosecutors said in court papers filed yesterday that they
may also seek to show the trial jury how those components work
together, which would require a sealed courtroom to protect
trade secrets.  A closed courtroom is warranted under the Economic
Espionage Act, which insures victims of such crimes aren’t “re-
victimized” at a trial by public disclosure of their trade
secrets, prosecutors said.  The case is U.S. v. Aleynikov, 10-00096, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan.)  IP Moves  DLA Piper Scores Two International IP Lawyers from Quinn Firm  DLA Piper LLP  hired two patent specialists from Quinn
Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan LLP of Los Angeles, the Chicago-
based firm said in a  statement .  The new hires are Henry Koda and William L. Androlia.  Koda, who now heads the Tokyo IP group for the Piper firm
does both patent acquisition work and litigation. He has also
done trademark and copyright litigation, infringement analysis
and licensing work.  He previously practiced at his own firm of Koda & Androlia;
Los Angeles-based  Loeb & Loeb LLP ; and the  Kyowa Patent & Law
Office  in Tokyo.  Koda has an undergraduate degree in chemistry from Gakshuin
University and a law degree from Meiji University.  Androlia ’s practice focuses on international trade and high
technology issues, including U.S. and Japanese patent, trademark
and copyright applications, infringement analysis, licensing and
litigation.  He previously practiced with Koda at Koda & Androlia and
Loeb & Loeb. Before he was a lawyer, he worked as an electronic
engineer for Philco/Ford Space and Reentry Systems, and services
as an officer in the U.S. Army Signal Corps.  He has an undergraduate degree in electronic engineering
from the University of California, Berkeley, a master’s degree
in electronic engineering from California State University, San
Jose, and a law degree from Loyola University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 