-- British Airways Union Withdraws Support for Deal to End Cabin-Crew Strikes
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2010-11-11T16:17:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/british-airways-union-withdraws-support-for-deal-to-end-cabin-crew-strikes.html
British Airways Plc ’s latest plan to
end a series of strikes by 12,000 flight attendants will no
longer go to a vote after the Unite union withdrew support for a
deal because of pressure from officials elected by crews.  Unite will meet with those officers to consider what course
of action it should follow to secure a package it can approve,
General Secretary  Tony Woodley  said today. British Airways
blamed internal divisions within the labor organization for
stopping the vote and said the ballot should still go ahead.  “Our cabin crew representatives have, on reflection,
decided that they can no longer support a recommendation of this
offer,” Woodley said in a statement. “Under these
circumstances, I have suspended the ballot on the offer.”  British Airways Chief Executive Officer  Willie Walsh  had
said the latest  proposals  on pay and staffing applied only if
Unite recommended that flight attendants accept them in a vote.
Crews have walked out on 22 days this year, and Unite has said
more strikes are an option, perhaps over the Christmas holidays.  Shares of Europe’s third-largest carrier were trading 2.9
percent lower at 265 pence as of 4:10 p.m. in London, paring
 gains  this year to 42 percent and valuing the company at 3.06
billion pounds ($4.9 billion).  “This is negative but BA won’t be as worried as it might
have been because it dealt with the strikes earlier in the year
very, very well,” said  Gert Zonneveld , an analyst at Panmure
Gordon in London with a “hold” recommendation on the stock.  Long-Haul Target  British Airways says it operated 80 percent of long-haul
flights during the last walkout that ended in June. Walsh has
said all such services will run in the event of another strike.  The CEO’s revised contract plan would reinstate travel
discounts stripped from crews who took part in strikes, albeit
in 2013, and an independent arbiter would rule on the future of
workers dismissed during the dispute. British Airways had
previously insisted that strikers would lose accumulated
benefits and that disciplinary decisions were non-negotiable.  The proposal also offered to improve industrial relations
through a review carried out by a mutually acceptable third
party, supported by the state-funded  Advisory, Conciliation and
Arbitration Service , which would also have the final say over
disciplinary cases involving the sacked and suspended strikers.  Dispute Costs  “British Airways cabin crew deserve the opportunity to
vote on these proposals, which address all their concerns and
represent a fair resolution of the dispute,” the airline said
in an e-mailed statement.  Unite said last month that it would recommend the “far
from perfect” offer and leave members to decide whether the
plan addressed outstanding issues to a satisfactory level.  An agreement would end a 21-month dispute that has cost
British Airways about 150 million pounds. The London-based
carrier is also introducing a parallel fleet staffed by crew
hired on less generous terms than existing employees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Rothwell  in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  