-- BT Raises Forecast After Operating Profit Climbs 2.6 Percent
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2010-11-11T12:13:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/bt-raises-full-year-forecast-after-operating-profit-climbs-on-web-clients.html
BT Group Plc  raised its full-year
forecast after second-quarter operating profit rose 2.6 percent
on lower costs and more high-speed broadband clients. The stock
climbed as much as 6 percent in London trading.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization
and costs from job cuts gained to 1.45 billion pounds ($2.34
billion) in the three months through September, the company said
in a statement. That beat analysts’ average estimate of 1.42
billion pounds in a Bloomberg survey. BT increased its forecast
for full-year adjusted earnings to about 5.8 billion pounds.  The company’s raised forecast “will undoubtedly send the
shares to new highs and the management team’s track record to
date on cost cutting deserves credit,” said  Robin Bienenstock ,
an analyst at Sanford C Bernstein in London.  BT is rolling out its high-speed fiber services to counter
declining revenue from its fixed-line services. BT may expand
the network to more U.K. premises than initially planned, Chief
Executive Officer  Ian Livingston  said today in an interview with
Bloomberg TV’s “Countdown with  Maryam Nemazee .” The company
has said it plans to spend 2.5 billion pounds for a faster
network serving two-thirds of British homes by 2015.  BT, the U.K.’s largest fixed-line phone company, rose as
much as 9.6 pence to 169 pence and was 5.5 percent higher at
168.1 pence as of 12:09 p.m. The stock has gained 24 percent
this year, and is the second-best performer on the  Stoxx 600
Telecommunications Index  after Tele2 AB of Sweden.  BT said it will hit its target for 2 billion pounds free
cash flow two years early.  New Broadband Clients  “We have made significant progress in improving
profitability and cash flow, enabling us to invest in building
the foundations for revenue growth in 2012/13,”  Livingston 
said.  Sales fell 1.8 percent to 4.98 billion pounds.  The company signed up 114,000 net additional broadband
customers in the quarter. BT is also seeking to expand its pay-
television offering. The company is offering  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc’s  main sports channels at a discount to
the wholesale price to attract users. It signed up 24,000 net
additional clients in the quarter, taking total subscribers to
520,000 customers.  The company said last week the government’s decision to
adjust the way that pensions are valued will reduce its pension
plan deficit and alter funding requirements after 2011.  Livingston said today that BT is now able to pay down the
pension liabilities quicker.  Pension Deficit  The deficit at the end of September was calculated at 5.2
billion pounds, down from 7.9 billion pounds at the end of June.
The change in measurements may reduce the number of years needed
to pay down the liability.  BT is waiting for the U.K.’s pension regulator to review
its recovery plan after the watchdog said in February it had
“substantial concerns” on an agreement with the trustees of
the BT pension program. BT is paying 525 million pounds each
year until 2011 to reduce the liability.  The British phone company is also in talks to sell part of
its 30 percent stake in Indian telecommunication service
provider  Tech Mahindra Ltd. and may sell shares through the
stock market, three people with direct knowledge of the matter
said last month.  Livingston said today that Tech Mahindra is a “very
valuable asset” and will remain a “big supplier” to the
company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 