-- Bulgarian President Sets Up New Party to Challenge `Helpless' Government
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2010-11-11T15:38:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/bulgarian-president-sets-up-new-party-to-challenge-helpless-government.html
Bulgarian President  Georgi Parvanov 
set up a party to challenge Prime Minister  Boiko Borissov’ s
Cabinet, which he said lacked the competence to handle the
country’s economic crisis.  Parvanov, 52, founded the Alternative for Bulgarian Revival
that includes former ministers and lawmakers from the Socialist
Party, which he led until becoming President in 2002. The ruling
Gerb party said it may move to impeach him in response. Parvanov
was re-elected for a second five-year term in 2006 and isn’t
eligible to run in next year’s presidential elections.  Bulgaria is struggling to end its first recession in more
than a decade after a three-year lending boom stalled and
foreign investment dried up during the global financial crisis.
The  European Commission  asked Bulgaria to narrow its  budget gap 
from 4.8 percent of gross domestic product in 2010 to below 3
percent of GDP by the end of 2011.  “The Cabinet looks helpless as usual,” Parvanov said in
Sofia today. There is “a deficit of competency in dealing with
the economic crisis. There is a crisis of governance. Work is
done on day-by-day basis without a big-picture vision.” The
party “is a laboratory for alternative policies.”  Parliament today approved next year’s budget plan, which
envisages economic growth of 3.6 percent, after a 0.7 percent
growth estimate for 2010 and a 5.1 percent  contraction  in 2009.  Impeachment Possible  Borissov’s Gerb will consult with other parties to
introduce a motion to impeach Parvanov, Krasimir Velchev, the
head of the party’s parliamentary group, told reporters today.  “Parvanov is using his power in office to set up a new
political force, which violates the constitution,” Borissov told
reporters last week. “He can no longer be considered the
President of all Bulgarians, but an ordinary opposition
politician.”  Gerb in the 2009 parliamentary elections beat the previous
Socialist-led coalition government, which Parvanov helped put
together in 2005. There is a danger that the new party will
poach people from the Socialists, Evgeni Unuzov, the party’s
secretary, told reporters today.  Executive power lies with the government, with the
president as the army’s commander-in-chief, who has the right to
veto legislation, propose the appointment of Cabinet members and
call early elections. Forming a party made Parvanov unworthy of
the post, Borissov said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Konstantinova  in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  