-- Bulgari Third-Quarter Profit Misses Estimates on Late Watch Introductions
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s   a n d   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 2010-11-11T17:09:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/bulgari-third-quarter-net-income-misses-estimates-on-watches-americas.html
Bulgari SpA , the world’s third-
largest jeweler, reported third-quarter profit that trailed
analysts’ estimates as new watch ranges were introduced later
than last year and sales declined in the Americas.  Net income rose to 16.6 million euros ($22.7 million) from
7 million euros a year earlier, Rome-based Bulgari said today by
e-mail after the market’s close. The average  estimate  of 14
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was 19.8 million euros.  Watch revenue fell 11 percent at comparable exchange rates
after new products didn’t become available until September. Last
year, Bulgari introduced them in the second quarter. Perfume
sales fell 4.1 percent after distribution of the new MAN
fragrance started in the third quarter, later than the June 2009
launch of BLV II. Timepieces account for about 20 percent of
sales, while perfumes and cosmetics represent 23 percent.  “This year, there was a miss-match with last year in terms
of new products,” Chief Executive Officer  Francesco Trapani 
said in a telephone interview today. “This had an impact on the
top line and all the rest.”  Bulgari confirmed its full-year targets after sales rose 12
percent in October at comparable exchange rates, Trapani said.
Revenue for the year may climb at least 5 percent, he said.  Bulgari is introducing more lower-priced jewelry and high-
end men’s watches as demand rebounds after the recession. The
126-year-old company said comparable sales fell 7.4 percent in
the Americas during the third quarter.  “Before the summer the general environment was very
positive, the situation today is very different,” the executive
said of the U.S. “There is a much more cautious approach.”  Bulgari fell 1.5 cents, or 0.2 percent, to 7.45 euros in
Milan trading today. The shares have  risen  29 percent this year,
giving the company a market value of 2.25 billion euros.  The jeweler’s third-quarter revenue gain trailed that of
 LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA’s  watch and jewelry unit,
whose sales advanced 30 percent in the period.  Third-quarter sales of jewelry, Bulgari’s largest source of
revenue, rose 14 percent boosted by deliveries of the Serpenti
and B.zerol lines, while accessories sales gained 35 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net ;
 Armorel Kenna  in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  