-- Buyout Firms Still Manage to Finagle Hefty Return: David Pauly
-- B y   D a v i d   P a u l y
-- 2010-11-11T02:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/buyout-firms-still-manage-to-finagle-hefty-return-david-pauly.html
Leveraged buyout firms are
struggling. They have been begging lenders for better terms on
the heavy debts of companies they control. An iffy stock market
prevents them from unloading their investments on the public.  Not all is lost, though. KKR & Co., Bain Capital LLC and
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  have pretty much recouped their 2006
investment as major players in HCA Inc., the biggest U.S.
hospital chain.  You won’t be surprised to know they are doing it by paying
themselves dividends out of HCA’s pocket and adding still more
to the hospital company’s debt.  HCA, based in Nashville,  Tennessee , this week said in a
Securities and Exchange Commission filing it plans to pay its
owners, including associates of HCA co-founder Thomas F. Frist Jr., and key executives a $2 billion dividend.  HCA distributed $1.75 billion to these same folks in
February and paid an additional $500 million to them in May.  The LBO investors initially said they would put up $5.3
billion for their buyout of HCA, borrowing the rest of the $33
billion cost. A later filing with the SEC indicates they may
have invested less.  HCA’s three distributions this year total $4.25 billion. If
KKR and the others did invest $5.3 billion, they have earned
back 80 percent of that in four years. If they invested less,
they may already have gotten most of their money back. The
person I spoke to at HCA was unable to help me pin this down.  The health-care company’s total debt was already $26.1
billion as of Sept. 30.  Vital Signs  HCA is healthy enough, considering all its borrowings. In
the third quarter, the company said it earned $243 million on
revenue of $7.65 billion. HCA executives say the new U.S.
health-care law will help the company by forcing more patients
to have medical insurance.  Let’s hope that HCA treats the patients at its 162
hospitals and 104 surgery centers as well as it does its
stakeholders.  The company’s executives benefited from the 2006 buyout
right away. They took advantage of the change-of-control
provisions of the deal that enhanced their company holdings by
immediately vesting options and restricted shares. Jack Bovender Jr. got $46 million in such benefits as the company’s chief
executive while then-president Richard Bracken made $20 million. 
As its chief executive last year, Bracken’s salary and other
pay totaled $12.3 million.  Generating Fees  Let’s not forget those major stakeholders in all LBOs: Wall
Street firms. They invest in the acquired companies. They get
adviser fees on the deals. They earn fees for selling bonds to
the bought-out companies and make more fees for taking them
public again.  HCA is half-way through the LBO process for a second time.
It went private in 1989 and public again in 1992. Last May it
announced plans for a public sale of $4.6 billion in shares but
hasn’t done so because of the tepid initial offering market.  A successful IPO might allow KKR and HCA’s other investors
to get an additional return of as much as $2.1 billion by
selling some of their shares. HCA said $2.5 billion of the sale
would be in new shares earmarked for debt payment.  The preliminary notice for the IPO stated that after the
sale, HCA had no plans to pay dividends. No need: KKR, Bain and
Bank of America already have done very well on their original
stake in HCA, in spite of the unruly times.  ( David Pauly  is a columnist for Bloomberg News. Opinions
expressed are his.)  To contact the writer of this column: David Pauly in  Fort
Myers , Florida / or  dpauly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  