-- California's Scandal-Plagued City of Bell May Repay $22 Million in Bonds
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2010-11-11T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/california-city-of-bell-may-pay-22-million-to-bondholders-in-rare-move.html
The Los Angeles suburb of  Bell ,
California, where eight current and former officials are charged
with misappropriating public funds, may pay $22 million to
bondholders, according to the interim chief administrative
officer, Pedro Carrillo.  The money would come from $50 million raised through
general-obligation bonds to build an athletic facility that’s
never been finished. After six years, all the city of 38,000 has
to show for the project is “a dirt lot with a masonry wall,” a
state  audit  found in September.  “We’re preparing a report which we’ll deliver to City
Council which will include several options” including repaying
bondholders, Carrillo said in an interview yesterday.  Bell, which paid its former city manager almost $800,000 a
year, illegally raised taxes, mismanaged bond funds and entered
into improper contracts, auditors said. While the bonds for the
Bell Sports Complex were sold in 2004 and 2007, Carrillo said
the project is only 20 percent completed.  “No plans for completing or developing the complex were
found during the course of the audit,” state Controller  John Chiang  said in a  statement  Sept. 22. The city lost $1.7 million
in potential interest earnings on the bond proceeds because most
of the money was deposited in a non-interest-bearing account,
according to the audit.  Returning $22 million to investors would be unusual,
according to  Ernesto Lanza , general counsel of the  Municipal
Securities Rulemaking Board , an industry self-regulator.  ‘Extremely Uncommon’  “It’s extremely uncommon,” Lanza said in a telephone
interview from Arlington, Virginia. “Sometimes a project that
was budgeted at $50 million will come in at $48 million and
they’ll use the $2 million to pay off the bonds. Here they’re
giving a whole pot back.”  The city is also negotiating with Paris- and Brussels-based
 Dexia SA  after missing a $35 million payment due Nov. 1 on
lease-revenue bonds sold to develop a railroad facility that was
never built, Carrillo said.  “Although Dexia has served formal notice of default on the
city, discussions to resolve this issue are continuing,” a
Dexia spokesman,  Thierry Martiny , said by e-mail.  Bell’s former city manager,  Robert Rizzo , and two other
officials resigned July 22, a week after the Los Angeles Times
reported that they were paid a combined $1.6 million annually.
One-in-four Bell residents lives below the poverty line,
according the website  City-Data.com . The city’s annual report
listed per-capita income at $24,800 in 2008. Statewide, the
figure was almost $42,700 that year, Bloomberg data show.  Rizzo, Mayor  Oscar Hernandez  and six other current and
former city officials were arrested Sept. 21 on charges they
misappropriated $5.5 million of city money, paying themselves
through phantom committee meetings and illegal personal loans,
according to a  press release  from Los Angeles County District
Attorney  Steve Cooley . They all pleaded not guilty, according to
Jane Robison, a spokeswoman for Cooley.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christopher Palmeri  in Bell, California, at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  