-- Cameron Criticizes Policing of London Riot After Attack on Conservative HQ
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2010-11-11T14:13:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/cameron-criticizes-policing-of-london-riot-after-attack-on-conservative-hq.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
criticized the policing of a student demonstration in London
against higher tuition fees that turned into a riot, saying
there should have been more officers on the streets.  Metropolitan Police Commissioner  Paul Stephenson  described
yesterday’s events, in which rioters stormed the headquarters of
Cameron’s Conservative Party, as “an embarrassment for us.”
The prime minister welcomed the admission.  “I could see a line, a thin blue line, of extremely brave
police officers trying to hold back a bunch of people who were
intent on violence and destruction,” Cameron told the BBC in an
interview today in Seoul, where he’s attending the Group of 20
summit. “As the police themselves have said, there weren’t
enough of them.”  Fifty people were arrested on suspicion of aggravated
trespass and criminal damage and 41 officers were injured in the
demonstration, Police Minister Nick Herbert told lawmakers in
the House of Commons in London today.  Protesters opposed to government plans to cut university
funding smashed glass on the ground floor of the 27-story
Millbank Tower, on the north bank of the Thames, close to
Parliament, and started a fire outside the building, burning
effigies of Cameron and Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg .
Herbert said that 2,000 people had gathered around Millbank when
the damage was done.  ‘No Place’  “Protesters from the main march seemed to be encouraged by
a number of individuals to storm the building and throw
missiles,” Herbert said. “There’s no place for such behavior
in Britain’s democracy.”  London’s Metropolitan Police planned to deploy 225 officers
to control the demonstration based on predictions from the
 National Union of Students , which organized the demonstration,
that 5,000 people would take part. The union, which raised its
estimate to 15,000 on Nov. 9, said on its website today that
52,000 people joined the march.  The estimates of the number of officers needed were
“inadequate” and the Metropolitan Police will carry out a
“thorough review” of its response, Herbert said.  “It is
clear that there are questions about the intelligence here.”  London Mayor  Boris Johnson , a Conservative, said there
would be a “proper investigation” into the level of police
preparedness.  ‘Fantastic Job’  “It was not the police who set on this violence and
thuggery, it was a tiny minority of students, perhaps not even
students, and I hope very much they are apprehended, prosecuted
and face the full force of the law,” Johnson told Sky News
television. “I’m not going to stand here and undermine the
police force who are doing a fantastic job 365 days a year to
keep our city safe.”  It was the first major protest since the government
outlined plans on Oct. 20 to slash 81 billion pounds ($131
billion) from spending by 2015 to narrow a  record budget
deficit .  Cameron’s coalition government plans to allow British
universities to charge as much as 9,000 pounds a year for
tuition, almost triple the current level, as the government
seeks to cut subsidies to colleges.  Much of the anger was directed at Clegg, whose Liberal
Democrat party promised before the May 6 election to vote
against any increase in tuition fees. Clegg said today that the
current policy has his “total and unequivocal support.”  ‘Understand the Anger’  “I should have been more careful perhaps about signing
that pledge, but at the time I really thought we could do it,”
Clegg told ITV’s “Daybreak” show today. “I understand the
anger, but I hope when people look at the detail and ask
themselves what it means for them, their children and
grandchildren they’ll think it actually makes sense.”  NUS President Aaron Porter condemned the violence and said
it had distracted attention from the reasons for the protest and
cost public sympathy for the campaign.  “What we had done was assemble 50,000 students which I’m
sure would have got a hell of a lot of attention and would have
sent a clear message to government,” Porter said in an
interview with BBC television.  “If we’re now having to spend time talking about the
rights and wrongs of violence and criminal damage, in many
respects I think it undermines our argument rather than allowing
us to concentrate on the devastation to our universities and
colleges,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in Seoul at  rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas Penny  in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 