-- Campari Nine-Month Sales and Earnings Rise as Consumers Buy More Spirits
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2010-11-11T12:49:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/campari-nine-month-sales-and-earnings-rise-as-consumers-buy-more-spirits.html
Davide Campari-Milano SpA , the maker
of Wild Turkey bourbon, said sales and earnings increased in the
first nine months of the year, aided by demand for spirits
brands including Skyy vodka.  Revenue rose 14 percent to 794.9 million euros ($1.09
billion), driven by “good consumption momentum across key brand
and market combinations, especially spirits,” the Milan, Italy-
based company said today in a statement. Excluding acquisitions
and disposals, sales gained 6.8 percent. Pretax profit climbed
17 percent to 156.3 million euros.  “Today’s results confirm the resilience of Campari’s
operating model,” wrote  Simon Hales , an analyst at Evolution
Securities in London. The shares rose to the highest price  since 
they started trading in July 2001, and were up 12 cents, or 2.5
percent, at 4.65 euros as of 1:35 p.m. in Milan.  Campari reported “positive trading” in western and
eastern Europe, where consumer-goods companies are suffering as
record government budget cuts stint spending. Sales of spirits,
which constitute 77 percent of the company’s revenue, rose 10
percent on a so-called organic basis over the nine months, as
consumers in the U.S. and other countries bought more Skyy vodka
and Italians drank more Aperol.  “Looking forward to the remainder of the year, we confirm
our balanced view of risks and opportunities,” Chief Executive
Officer  Bob Kunze-Concewitz  said in the statement. “We are
optimistic about our full-year and medium-term prospects.”  The Italian company agreed to buy liqueur brands Carolans,
Frangelico and Irish Mist in September to expand in the U.S.
spirits market. Campari is “pretty sound from a balance-sheet
standpoint,” Kunze-Concewitz said today on a conference call,
and will consider further acquisitions.  “M&A is part of our DNA,” the CEO said. “We expect half
our growth to come from M&A in future.” Campari is “looking
out for things, but it doesn’t mean we’re going to do something
tomorrow morning,” he said, referring to acquisitions.  The U.S. spirits market will “continue to be
competitive,” Kunze-Concewitz said, though planned marketing
investments “should give us traction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Clementine Fletcher  in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 