-- Canada's Dollar Falls From Six-Month High as Stock Drop Saps Risk Demand
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-11-11T22:15:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/canada-s-dollar-falls-from-six-month-high-as-stock-drop-saps-risk-demand.html
Canada’s dollar slid from a six-
month high against the greenback as North American stocks fell,
indicating reduced risk appetite.  The loonie fell against five of its 16 most-traded
counterparts tracked by Bloomberg as Group of 20 leaders
convened in Seoul. The currency earlier traded stronger than
parity with the greenback for a fifth day and touched the
highest level against the euro in seven weeks on concern deficit
levels in some European nations may spiral out of control.  “Most action is against the euro as, at the moment, it is
painting the clearest picture,”  John Curran , senior vice
president in Toronto at CanadianForex Ltd., an online foreign-
exchange dealer, wrote in an e-mail. The Canadian dollar is
stuck in a range because “people don’t want to add more juice
to the trade, but are reluctant to take it off.”  The loonie depreciated 0.2 percent to C$1.0033 per U.S.
dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto, from C$1.0009 yesterday. It touched
99.78 Canadian cents, the strongest level since April 26. The
Canadian dollar gained 0.6 percent to C$1.3713 against the euro
after touching C$1.3698, the strongest since Sept. 22.  Foreign-exchange trading volume may be lighter than usual
because bond markets are closed for Remembrance Day.  “With reduced staff across the board, G-20 vibrations is
what will move” foreign-exchange markets,  Firas Askari , head
currency trader in Toronto at Bank of Montreal’s BMO Capital
Markets unit, said via e-mail. “Liquidity is very poor.”  Harper at G-20  Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  told reporters in
Seoul he’s doubtful G-20 leaders meeting there through tomorrow
can resolve differences about how to tackle global currency and
trade imbalances.  “We’re getting a more frank discussion on some of these
matters,” Harper said. “Will they be addressed at this
conference? I’m not so sure.”  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  dropped 0.4 percent, while
the S&P/TSX Composite Index slid 0.1 percent. Futures on crude
oil, Canada’s biggest export, were little changed at $87.75 a
barrel after rising to the two-year high of $88.63.  The drop in stocks seems “to be taking some shine off the
Canadian dollar,”  Steve Butler , director of foreign-exchange
trading in Toronto at Bank of Nova Scotia’s Scotia Capital Inc.
unit, said via e-mail. “European sovereign worries sent the
euro lower again today.”  Portuguese and Irish government bonds fell on mounting
concern some nations on Europe’s periphery will be forced to
restructure debt. Irish 10-year securities plunged for a 13th
consecutive day after the clearing house LCH Clearnet Ltd.
demanded yesterday that its clients place a larger deposit when
trading the debt.  The U.S. dollar-Canadian dollar rate “remains within a
tight range, reluctant to trade outside the C$1 to C$1.01 bounds
for any length of time,” Curran wrote in a note.  Canada’s dollar will trade stronger than parity at 99 cents
per U.S. dollar at the end of the first quarter of 2011 before
weakening to C$1.04 by the end of next year, according to the
median forecast of 31 economists and analysts in a Bloomberg
News survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  