-- Carstens Monitors Fed Easing Effect While Considering Mexico Rate Decrease
-- B y   J e n s   E r i k   G o u l d
-- 2010-11-12T00:47:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/carstens-monitors-fed-easing-effect-while-considering-mexico-rate-decision.html
Mexico central bank Governor  Agustin Carstens  says the Federal Reserve’s plan to spur the U.S.
recovery may help his country. He also says his bank would take
action if needed to protect the Mexican economy and peso, even
by cutting interest rates.  Carstens, at Bloomberg’s Mexico  Economic Summit  in Mexico
City yesterday, said he sees no need to curb capital inflows now
because the peso isn’t overvalued. He forecasts the region’s
second-biggest economy will  grow 5 percent this  year even as the
U.S., which buys 80 percent of Mexico’s exports, struggles to
recover from recession.  Mexico will be “very patient” before reacting to capital
inflows that can hurt competitiveness and lead to asset-price
bubbles, Carstens said. Any eventual measures, which could also
include increasing the amount of dollar options it auctions
monthly, would be coordinated with the Finance Ministry. Policy
makers aren’t considering capital controls like those
implemented in other emerging markets, he said.  “We want the bank to be consistent and avoid jumping the
gun prematurely,” Carstens, 52, said in an interview after
speaking at the Bloomberg summit. Still, if short-term portfolio
inflows intensify “we would consider adjusting our rates.”  The yield on Mexico’s 2024 benchmark note fell the most in
two weeks today after Carstens’ comments before rebounding. The
yield climbed one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 6.53
percent today. The peso fell 0.3 percent to 12.2602 per dollar.  On Nov. 3, a day after Carstens signaled he would consider
cutting rates in private meetings with investors and analysts in
New York, the yield on Mexico’s 2012 bond dropped 10 basis
points.  Bond Rally  “The rumor was out there for the past few days,” said
 Omar Martin  del Campo, the head trader at Banco Ve Por Mas SA in
Mexico City. “The scenario changes now, with the governor
saying it officially. The drop could accelerate.”  Carstens’s comments prompted Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to
change its forecast for Mexico’s benchmark interest rate.
Goldman Sachs said in a report Mexico will keep borrowing costs
unchanged next year. Previously, it forecast a rate increase in
the fourth quarter of 2011.  Mexico’s economy is rebounding from its worst slump since
1932 on the back of job and export growth. The IPC index of 35
stocks climbed 13 percent this year through yesterday, exceeding
the 4.5 percent gain for Brazil’s  Bovespa .  Banco de Mexico has held its benchmark rate at 4.5 percent
since July 2009.  Capital inflows have pushed bond yields to
“extraordinarily” low levels and the peso may strengthen in
coming months, Carstens said. The peso gained 7.1 percent this
year through yesterday to 12.2189 per U.S. dollar, outperforming
all Latin American currencies except the Colombian peso.  In Bernanke’s Shoes  Foreign investment in short-term Mexican notes known as
Cetes has risen more than six-fold since the end of 2009 as
investors looked for alternatives to near-zero interest rates in
the U.S. and Europe. Inflows almost doubled in the month ending
Oct. 27 to 70.4 billion pesos ($5.78 billion) in anticipation of
the Fed’s decision to purchase $600 billion in Treasuries.  China said this week the second round of so-called
quantitative easing by the Fed threatens to “shock” emerging
markets with “hot money.” Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  compared it to “throwing money from a helicopter.”  Carstens said Mexico stands to benefit if the Fed’s
monetary stimulus boosts U.S. economic growth.  “It’s an understandable measure, and up to some point even
desirable,” said Carstens, who was deputy managing director for
the International Monetary Fund from 2003 to 2006. “If I were
in  Ben Bernanke ’s shoes I would do the same.”  Sustained Inflows  In order to cut rates, Banco de Mexico would need to see
three or four straight months of sustained capital inflows, low
inflation and long-term monetary easing in other countries, said
 Sergio Mendez , who helps manage 80.5 billion pesos as chief
investment officer at Mexico City-based pension fund Afore XXI.  “When the bank sees the flows are much longer term and
there are structural changes, they can make monetary policy
decisions,” Mendez said in an interview at the summit.  Lisa Schineller , Standard & Poor’s director for Latin
America, and  Sergio Luna , head of research at Citigroup
Inc.’s Banamex unit, said at the summit yesterday they see
a rate cut next year as unlikely.  Gabriel Casillas , JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s chief
economist in Mexico City, reiterated his call that the bank’s
next move will be to raise rates in 2012. Only two of 23 firms
polled in a Nov. 4 survey by Banamex predict the bank’s next
move will be a rate reduction.  ‘Better Than Expected’ Inflation  Carstens said the country’s inflation outlook is evolving
“much better than expected,” though medium and long-term
expectations for consumer prices remain “quite above” the
bank’s 3 percent target.  “That tells us that we still have some ways to go” before
any rate decrease, Carstens said.  Finance Minister  Ernesto Cordero  at the summit yesterday
echoed Carstens’s call for prudence and rejection of capital
controls. He said the Fed’s decision could bring “bad news”
for emerging markets, though Mexico’s peso hasn’t seen
inordinate gains compared with other currencies.  Brazil, Thailand and Colombia are among nations that have
imposed taxes on foreign inflows, ended tax exemptions for
foreigners or stepped up purchases in the spot currency markets
as investors pile into the countries in search of higher
returns.  Mexican exports, buoyed by a 44 percent rise in auto sales
abroad, climbed 21 percent in September from a year earlier. The
central bank forecasts the economy will grow 3.2 percent to 4.2
percent in 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jens Erik Gould  in Mexico City at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  