-- Central Bank Auctioning Record Debt to Rein in Inflation: Argentina Credit
-- B y   D r e w   B e n s o n   a n d   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2010-11-11T14:45:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/central-bank-auctioning-record-debt-to-rein-in-inflation-argentina-credit.html
Argentina’s central bank is selling
a record amount of notes linked to deposit rates to curb money
supply growth and inflation.  The central bank sold this week 2.2 billion pesos ($555.5
million) of nobacs, the most since the auctions began in April
2005. The securities pay 250 basis points, or 2.5 percentage
points, more than the 10.88 percent badlar rate. Six-month
futures show the rate will climb to 12 percent, compared with a
one-month London interbank offered rate of 0.25 percent.  The central bank, which raised its 2010 monetary growth
targets in August to 29.4 percent from 19 percent, has swelled
the supply of cash by selling pesos for dollars to weaken the
currency and shore up exports. Speculation inflation is running
at about 25 percent -- more than double the official rate --
will prompt policy makers to step up note auctions to drain cash
from the financial system, driving up the badlar, said
GlobalSource Partners, a Buenos Aires-based research company.  “Expectations that the  badlar  will rise make nobacs more
attractive,” said Esteban Medrano, an economist with
GlobalSource. “An increase in the badlar rate reflects two
things: higher inflation expectations and that the central bank
may want to remove liquidity to meet its renewed money supply
targets through the end of the year.”  The central bank boosted its nobac sales from 744 million
pesos in last week’s auction. It also increased the sale of
fixed-rate notes known as lebacs to 780 million pesos from 607
million pesos last week. There are 18.5 billion pesos of nobacs
outstanding and 55.4 billion pesos of lebacs, according to the
central bank.  Inflation Data  Argentina’s central bank targets money supply growth to
control inflation instead of using a benchmark lending rate that
it can raise or lower.  The government said annual inflation was 11.1 percent in
September. Economists and politicians including Vice President
 Julio Cobos  began to question official inflation statistics in
early 2007, when  Nestor Kirchner , President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner ’s husband and predecessor, made personnel changes at
the national statistics institute. The government says the data
is accurate.  Fernandez’s use of the government’s record foreign
reserves to pay debt is helping fuel inflation,  Alfonso Prat- Gay , an opposition lawmaker and former central bank president,
said during a floor debate of the president’s 2011 budget
yesterday. She plans to take $6.6 billion of reserves this year
and $7.5 billion next year to make debt payments.  Reserves  rose
to $52.3 billion on Nov. 4.  ‘Regressive Tax’  “It’s not necessary to use reserves for financing because
there are other methods that aren’t inflationary,” Prat-Gay
said. “We don’t want the government to continue to finance
itself with that most regressive tax that is inflation.”  Central bank President  Mercedes Marco  del Pont told
reporters in Buenos Aires yesterday that rising global food
prices are contributing to inflation, not monetary policy or
domestic demand.  “They’re wrong when they repeat like parrots that using
reserves causes inflation,” Marco del Pont said. Weekly note
auctions remove 65 percent of the pesos the central bank prints
to buy dollars from the financial system, she said.  The peso was little changed at 3.9601 per dollar at 9:40
a.m. New York time. It’s down 4.1 percent this year.  The extra yield investors demand to own Argentine bonds
instead of U.S. Treasuries tightened 5 basis points to 515,
according to JPMorgan.  Default Swaps  Five-year credit-default swaps tied to Argentine debt rose
18 basis points yesterday to 634. Credit-default swaps pay the
buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities or
the cash equivalent should a government or company fail to
adhere to debt agreements.  Warrants linked to growth in South America’s second-biggest
economy rose 0.2 cent today to 13.83 cents, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The central bank forecasts economic
growth of 9 percent this year, the most since 2005.  The central bank will announce next week’s note auction on
Nov. 15 and release results the next day.  The badlar may fail to rise as the U.S. Federal Reserve’s
effort to stimulate the world’s largest economy by purchasing
government bonds boosts inflows to emerging markets, said  Camilo Tiscornia , a former central bank economist who is now an analyst
at research company C&T Asesores in Buenos Aires.  Inflows  “With the second round of the Fed’s quantitative easing,
there will be more inflows into emerging markets, including
Argentina,” Tiscornia said. “That will hold rates down.”  The central bank has driven up the badlar by 88 basis
points this year as the annual inflation rate accelerated from
7.7 percent in December. Consumer prices rose 11.1 percent in
October from a year earlier, according to the median estimate of
three economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The national statistics
agency is scheduled to publish the data tomorrow.  Inflation may quicken to as much as 30 percent next year as
the government steps up spending before presidential elections,
GlobalSource’s Medrano said.  “Given that it’s an election year, we expect government
spending to climb, so inflation will remain elevated,” Medrano
said. “We aren’t expecting policies that are especially anti-
inflationary from a fiscal and monetary perspective.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Drew Benson  in Buenos Aires at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  