-- Chelsea Wins in Premier League; Manchester Derby Ends Scoreless
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2010-11-11T00:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/chelsea-wins-to-increase-premier-league-lead-as-manchester-derby-ends-0-0.html
Chelsea defeated Fulham 1-0 to
increase its lead in English soccer’s Premier League over
Manchester United, which tied Manchester City 0-0.  Michael Essien , who was red-carded late in the game,
scored the only goal last night to lead Chelsea to the home win
over its west London rival. The victory moves the Blues four
points ahead of United atop the standings.  “The Manchester result was good for us,” Chelsea manager
 Carlo Ancelotti  told Sky Sports. “Nothing is decided, but
that’s a good gap. We’d like to stay there in that position.”  Arsenal strengthened its hold on third place with a 2-0
win at Wolverhampton, Aston Villa beat Blackpool 3-2 and
Blackburn was a 2-1 winner at Newcastle. Last-place West Ham
tied West Brom 2-2, Wigan drew 1-1 with Liverpool and Everton
rallied to tie Bolton 1-1.  At Stamford Bridge, Chelsea rebounded from a 2-0 loss at
Liverpool four days ago to leave Fulham still seeking its first
away win since the first game of last season. The Blues tied a
club record with a ninth consecutive home shutout.  Chelsea took the lead in the 30th minute when Essien
headed in  Salomon Kalou ’s cross. Essien received a red card in
second-half stoppage time for a two-footed challenge against
 Clint Dempsey .  Manchester United controlled long periods of play at the
City of Manchester Stadium without finding a way through its
rival’s defense.  ‘Decent Result’  “It’s a decent result but we don’t count draws away from
home as the target before the game,” United manager  Alex Ferguson  told Sky Sports. “Our target is to win the game and I
think we had enough possession to do that.”  City had the best chance in the first half as  Carlos Tevez ’s free kick was stopped by  Edwin van der Sar  just before
halftime. United’s best chance came in the second half from
 Dimitar Berbatov , whose twisting volley went straight at
goalkeeper  Joe Hart .  The draw extends United’s unbeaten run to 25 games overall
and 17 matches in the league.  Marouane Chamakh  scored in the first and last minutes as
Arsenal moved within a point of Manchester United and two
points clear of Manchester City.  Chamakh opened the scoring in Wolverhampton after 39
seconds when he headed in  Alex Song ’s cross. He clinched the
victory in the final seconds of second-half stoppage time.  James Collins ’s goal in the 89th minute gave Aston Villa
the home win over Blackpool.  Stewart Downing  and Nathan
Delfouneso also scored for Villa, which ended a five-game
winless run.  Marlon Harewood  and D.J. Campbell had the
Blackpool goals.  Five in a Row  Jason Roberts  scored with eight minutes left against
Newcastle to lift Blackburn to its fifth straight win at St.
James’ Park.  Morten Gamst Pedersen  put Rovers in front after
three minutes and  Andy Carroll  tied it for Newcastle two
minutes into the second half.  Pablo Ibanez’s goal in the 71st minute gave West Brom the
draw at West Ham.  Peter Odemwingie put the Baggies in front with a 38th-
minute penalty kick before a goal from  Scott Parker  and a
penalty from Frederic Piquionne gave West Ham a 2-1 lead. The
Hammers remain in last place with eight points, one fewer than
Wolves.  Hugo Rodallega’s goal in the 52nd minute gave Wigan the
home draw with Liverpool.  Jermaine Beckford  scored in stoppage time as Everton
overcame  Marouane Fellaini ’s sending off to tie with Bolton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 