-- Moody's Raises China's Debt Rating on Financial Strength
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-11T04:45:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/china-s-credit-ratings-upgraded-to-aa3-by-moody-s-on-financial-strength.html
Moody’s Investors Service raised
China’s debt rating to its fourth highest ranking, citing the
nation’s financial strength and ability to contain losses from a
credit boom.  The increase is to Aa3 from A1, with a positive outlook,
Moody’s said in a statement today. The cost of protecting
China’s sovereign debt against default for five years fell three
basis points to 53.5 basis points, according to BNP Paribas
price for credit-default swaps.  The nation’s efforts to tackle asset bubbles and avert the
spread of bad loans has meant the “likely containment and
effective management” of losses from record lending last year
to counter the financial crisis, Moody’s said. That combined
with China’s “resilient” economic growth were reasons for the
upgrade, the ratings company said.  “There is the potential for other ratings agencies to
follow,” said  Frances Cheung , a Hong Kong-based senior
strategist at Credit Agricole CIB. “If you look at China’s
external positions, or the loan-to-deposit ratio and the growth
potential, of course China should be even higher on the table.”  Hong Kong’s rating rose to Aa1 from Aa2.  China’s economy, the world’s fastest-growing, expanded by
9.6 percent in the third quarter. Exports gained 22.9 percent
from a year earlier in October, with the nation posting a
larger-than-forecast $27.1 billion trade surplus for the month.  Currency Tensions  China may pass the U.S. to become the biggest economy in
2012 based on a measure used to compare purchasing power in
different countries, the Conference Board, a New York-based
research organization, said yesterday.  Trade and currency tension between China and the U.S. is
likely to be “constructively managed,” Moody’s said.  Presidents  Barack Obama  and  Hu Jintao  are among leaders
gathering today in Seoul for Group of 20 nations meetings to
discuss global trade and capital imbalances. The yuan yesterday
gained 0.51 percent against the dollar, the biggest daily
advance since China abandoned a peg against the greenback in
July 2005.  The government has taken steps to curb inflation and
speculation in real-estate. Data released yesterday showed that
property prices in 70 major Chinese cities grew in October at
the  slowest pace  in 10 months after the government raised
requirement down payment for mortgages and limited sales
in some cities to one home per family.  China’s central bank yesterday raised reserve requirements
for the nation’s lenders by 50 basis points from Nov. 16, after
increasing benchmark lending and deposit rates last month for
the first time since 2007. Some banks, including Bank of
Communications Co., had an additional increase, meaning their
requirements rise a full percentage point, two people with
direct knowledge of the situation said today.  Still, consumer prices rose 4.4 percent in October from a
year earlier, the biggest gain in two years, a statistics bureau
report showed today.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Henry Sanderson  in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  