-- China’s Oil Refining Rises to Record to Meet Shortage
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-11T08:22:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/china-s-oil-refining-rises-to-record-to-meet-shortage-update1-.html
China’s oil processing rose to a
record last month after refiners increased production to ease a
domestic fuel shortage.  Plants processed 37 million metric tons, or 8.8 million
barrels a day, in October, up 12 percent from a year earlier,
China Mainland Marketing Research Co., which compiles data for
the National Bureau of Statistics, said in a statement from
Beijing today. That exceeded the previous all-time high of 8.6
million barrels a day processed in June.  Chinese state oil companies are boosting processing in a
bid to ease diesel shortages in the southern part of the nation
caused by factories using the fuel to power their generators.
 China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. , the nation’s largest oil
refiner, increased production to a record in October, parent
China Petrochemical Corp. said on Nov. 4.  “Refining volumes are set to rise even higher in the last
two months of the year as state refineries maximize
production,” Qiu Xiaofeng, an oil analyst with China Merchants
Securities Ltd., said by telephone from Shanghai. “They are
trying to ease the domestic shortfall.”  Diesel output gained 8.2 percent to a record 13.6 million
tons last month, and gasoline rose 6 percent to 6.6 million tons.
Kerosene climbed 4.2 percent to 1.4 million tons, according to
today’s statement. Natural gas production rose 9.6 percent to
7.9 billion cubic meters in October.  Retail Stations  Sinopec, or China Petroleum, and  PetroChina Co. , the
nation’s top two oil refiners, said earlier this month that they
will process record amounts of crude in November as the country
battles a shortage that has left gas stations dry in the south
and east.  More than 2,000 private retail fuel outlets in southern
China closed after running out of diesel, Xinhua news agency
reported Nov. 7.  The shortages helped Singapore’s benchmark gasoil crack
spread, the profit from processing Dubai crude, climb above $14
a barrel, the widest since August, according to PVM Oil
Associates, a brokerage.  China’s economy grew 9.6 percent in the third quarter, and
industrial output gained 13.1 percent in October from a year
earlier.  -- Winnie Zhu . Editors:  Jane Lee ,  Alexander Kwiatkowski .  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Winnie Zhu  in Shanghai at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jane, Ching Shen Lee at 
 jalee@bloomberg.net  