-- China Day Ahead: Goldman Says Sell H Shares; Missiles in Western Pacific
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-11T23:07:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/china-day-ahead-goldman-says-sell-h-shares-missiles-in-western-pacific.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. recommended
clients exit a bet that Hong Kong-listed Chinese companies will
gain on concern the central bank will raise borrowing costs to
tame inflation.  Investors who followed the New York-based firm’s advice
would have earned a return of 11.3 percent as the  Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index  of 40 companies rose above 14,000 from
12,616.01 since April 1, when the trade was initiated, analysts
 Robin Brooks  and  Dominic Wilson  wrote in a research note. The
recommendation was among the nine “Top Trades” Goldman Sachs
made for 2010.  Inflation is above policy makers’ “comfort zone” and more
policy “tightening” will likely occur, the New York-based
analysts wrote in the report. “The near-term risk-reward for
this position also looks unappealing as we approach the year-end
‘roll-off,’” they said.  Missiles Reach Bases  The Chinese military’s non-nuclear missiles have “the
capability to attack” and close down five of six major U.S. Air
Force bases in South Korea and Japan, an unpublished government
report says.  China’s improved inventory of short- and medium-range
missiles provides a “dramatic increase” in its ability to
“inhibit” U.S. military operations in the western Pacific,
according to excerpts from the draft of the 2010 annual report
by the  U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission 
scheduled for release on Nov. 17.  AgriBank Joins Index  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd., which completed the
world’s third-biggest initial public offering this year, will
join Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index  following a
quarterly review.  Guangzhou Automobile Group Co. will also join the measure
while Datang International Power Generation Co. and
Metallurgical Corp. of China Ltd. will be deleted, Hang Seng
Indexes Co. said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. Changes
will take effect Dec. 6. The number of constituents on the H-
share index of Chinese companies will stay at 40.  Microsoft, Sina Venture  Microsoft Corp. ’s Internet venture in China and  Sina Corp. ,
owner of the country’s third-most-visited web portal, will offer
services including instant messaging, challenging industry
leader  Tencent Holdings Ltd.   Shanghai MSN Network Communications Technology Co., 50
percent-owned by Microsoft, will collaborate with Sina on blogs,
mini-blogs, mobile-phone content, and instant messaging,
according to a joint statement by the companies.  EU Renews Tariff  The European Union renewed tariffs against China on a
chemical used by plastic-bottle mold makers such as  Resilux NV 
and bottlers including  Coca-Cola Co. , saying the levies limit
the risk of a surge in imports.  The EU re-imposed the duties of as much as 184 euros ($253)
a metric ton on polyethylene terephthalate until November 2015
to curb import competition for European producers including
Spain’s Novapet SA. Polyethylene terephthalate, also used in
plastic films and fibers, is known as PET.  China Vase Auction  An elaborately decorated Qianlong-dynasty porcelain vase
sold for a record 51.6 million pounds ($83 million) as Chinese
buyers competed for Imperial-associated trophies at the “Asian
Art in London” event.  The 16-inch-high piece had been discovered during a routine
house clearance in the suburb of Pinner, said Bainbridges, a
west London auction house. It had estimated the vase to fetch
between 800,000 pounds and 1.2 million pounds. The hammer price
was 43 million pounds before 20 percent fees, making it the
highest for any Chinese artwork sold at auction.  MARKETS  U.S. stocks fell for the third time this week as Cisco
Systems Inc. said profit will miss analyst estimates, while the
euro weakened and Irish bonds slid amid concern indebted
European nations may need bailouts. London copper touched a
record as China’s industrial production grew.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index sank 0.4 percent to
1,213.54 at 4 p.m. in New York. The measure extended losses
after Walt Disney Co. reported earnings that trailed estimates.
The euro weakened against 14 of its 16 most-traded peers and
reached a one-month low versus the dollar. The yield on Irish
10-year bonds rose to a record 6.52 percentage points above
benchmark German bunds.  Cisco’s forecast triggered a selloff in technology
companies, the group that has led the S&P 500’s 16 percent rally
since the end of August. Bank shares followed the euro and Irish
bonds lower after French Finance Minister Christine Lagarde said
that investors must share the cost of sovereign debt
restructurings, backing a German call that helped drive yields
on so-called peripheral bonds to record highs.  THE FOLLOWING STOCKS MAY BE ACTIVE TODAY:  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.  (601288 CH): The nation’s
third-largest bank by assets will be added to Hong Kong’s Hang
Seng China Enterprises Index starting Dec. 6, according to index
compiler Hang Seng Indexes Co. The stock added 1.1 percent to
2.80 yuan.  Citic Securities Co.  (600030 CH): China’s biggest listed
brokerage said it received the approval from the China
Securities Regulatory Commission to sell a 45 percent stake in
China Securities Co. for 1.22 billion yuan ($184.2 million). The
stock rose 1.1 percent to 15.64 yuan.  CNHTC Jinan Truck Co.  (000951 CH): The listed unit of the
country’s largest heavy truck producer said sales volume rose 41
percent in the first 10 months from a year earlier to 92,836
units. The stock dropped 0.7 percent to 29.49 yuan.  Hengli Properties Development (Group) Ltd.  (169 HK) The
developer said it will increase the amount raised in a rights
offer to HK$111.9 million from HK$67 million by offering one new
share for each one held, up from three for each five. The stock
will resume trading in Hong Kong today.  Hong Long Holdings Ltd . (183 HK): The developer will sell,
for 120 million yuan, its 52 percent stake in a unit that’s
building a hotel, housing and commercial project in Guangdong.
Hong Long book a gain of HK$137.4 million. The stock will resume
trading in Hong Kong.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bruce Grant at   bruceg@bloomberg.net . 