-- China's Inflation, Credit Upgrade Build Pressure on Yuan
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-11T04:21:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/china-s-faster-inflation-credit-upgrade-add-yuan-pressure-as-g-20-meets.html
China’s  inflation  rate jumped to a
two-year high and the nation’s debt rating was raised by Moody’s
Investors Service, boosting pressure for a stronger currency as
Group of 20 leaders meet to discuss exchange rates.  Consumer prices rose a more-than-forecast 4.4 percent from
a year earlier, a statistics bureau report showed in Beijing
today. Moody’s separately said it boosted China’s rating one
step to Aa3, the fourth-highest grade.  The Moody’s move underscores a sustained Chinese rebound
from the global crisis that’s pulled in capital from abroad and
contributed to inflationary pressures. U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner , attending the G-20 summit starting today in
Seoul, said last week that emerging markets should recognize
that stronger currencies are one way of adjusting to the influx.  Today’s data “reinforces the case for faster currency
appreciation,” said  Brian Jackson , an emerging markets
strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in Hong Kong. More interest-
rate increases are also “clearly on the way,” he said.  The yuan has strengthened 0.7 percent against the dollar
since Nov. 8, its biggest three-day advance since a currency peg
ended in July 2005. Presidents  Barack Obama  and  Hu Jintao  will
meet today at a summit in Seoul where leaders aim to tackle
distortions in global trade and investment.  “The resilient performance of the Chinese economy following
the onset of the global financial crisis, and expectations of
continued strong growth,” drove the upgrade, Moody’s said.  Currency Holdings  The ratings company cited the financial strength of the
nation, which holds $2.65 trillion in foreign-exchange reserves,
and its ability to manage and contain losses from record lending.  The cost of protecting China’s sovereign debt against
default for five years fell three basis points to 53.5 basis
points, according to BNP Paribas prices for credit-default swaps.  Industrial output  growth cooled to 13.1 percent in October
from a year earlier as the government limited power use by heavy
industries to meet year-end energy-efficiency targets, today’s
statement showed.  Retail sales  gained 18.6 percent and  producer
price  inflation accelerated to 5 percent.  Today’s data may increase the likelihood of more increases
in reserve requirements after the central bank yesterday raised
the proportion of deposits that banks must set aside by 0.5
percentage point. Some banks, including Bank of Communications
Co., had an additional increase, meaning their requirements rise
a full percentage point, two people with direct knowledge of the
situation said today.  ‘Firm ‘ Growth  October’s  economic growth  was “firm” and more “policy
tightening” is needed, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in an e-
mailed note. China raised rates last month for the first time
since 2007.  Officials are grappling with inflows of cash from monetary
easing abroad, bets on yuan gains and a  trade surplus  that
surged last month to $27 billion, signs of global imbalances.
The U.S. sees a stronger yuan as among the remedies.  The currency rose 0.1 percent to 6.6241 per dollar as of
11:57 a.m. after earlier reaching 6.6173, the highest level
since China unified official and market exchange rates at the
end of 1993. The government may allow an annual 5 percent
appreciation against the dollar, Bank of America-Merrill Lynch
said today.  New lending  was a more-than-estimated 587.7 billion yuan
($89 billion) in October, a separate report from the central
bank showed today. Urban fixed-asset investment rose 24.4
percent in the first 10 months of 2010 from a year earlier, the
statistics bureau said.  Inflation Rumor  While the inflation number was above all 28  estimates  in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists, it matched rumors yesterday
cited by firms including Guoyuan Securities Co. in Shanghai.  The latest reserve-ratio increase came after the nation’s
top economic planner said this week that the government may miss
its full-year inflation target of 3 percent.  Zhang Ping  cited
“imported inflation,” as excessive global liquidity and a
weaker dollar push up commodity costs, and food costs.  In October, food prices rose 10.1 percent from a year
earlier, accounting for three-quarters of the overall rise in
consumer prices, today’s report showed.  The People’s Bank of China said last week that it aims to
return monetary conditions to “normal” and  Zhang Jianhua , the
head of the bank’s research bureau, said Nov. 4 that the
moderately loose policy stance adopted for the financial crisis
has completed its “mission.”  Besides consumer-price gains, the government faces asset-
bubble risks. Property prices rose 8.6 percent in October from a
year earlier, a statistics bureau report showed yesterday. Year-
on-year increases have slowed as the government cracks down on
speculation.  -- Li Yanping . With assistance from  Jay Wang  and  Chua Kongho .
Editors:  Paul Panckhurst ,  Stephanie Phang .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Li Yanping  in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7568 or
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  