-- China's Reserve Ratio Increase Unlikely to Halt Stocks Rally, Guotai Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-11T02:45:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/china-s-reserve-ratio-increase-unlikely-to-halt-stocks-rally-guotai-says.html
China’s first nationwide increase in
bank reserve requirements since May will fail to drain funds
from the financial system, allowing October’s best performing
major stock market to gain,  Guotai Junan Securities Co.  said.  The People’s Bank of China announced yesterday a 0.5
percentage point increase in the amount lenders must set aside
in reserve to stem the risk of asset bubbles and accelerating
inflation.  “There is too much liquidity overseas and one reserve
requirement increase isn’t enough to reverse the trend on
stocks,” said  Zhang Kun , a Shanghai-based strategist at Guotai
Junan, China’s second-biggest brokerage by revenue. “The stock
market may open lower but close higher.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index  rose 0.4 percent to 3,126.32
at 10:37 a.m., erasing an earlier drop of as much as 0.4 percent,
after Moody’s Investors Service upgraded the nation’s debt
rating. The gauge surged 12 percent in October, the most among
key indexes in the world’s 10 largest stock markets, on
speculation a Federal Reserve plan to purchase $600 billion of
securities will flood global markets with funds.  The latest reserve requirement increase, announced after
stock markets closed yesterday, came after figures from the
customs bureau showed the nation posted a larger-than-expected
$27.1 billion trade surplus in October, pumping cash into the
world’s fastest-growing economy.  China’s stocks entered a so-called bull market last month
after the Shanghai index gained 20 percent from this year’s low
on July 5. The gauge has risen 3.8 percent since Oct. 19, when
China raised interest rates for the first time since 2007 to
curb inflation and asset bubbles.  Limited Gains  The measure is now valued at 20 times earnings, compared
with 26.4 times at the start of the year, according to weekly
 data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Shi Bo , general manager of Shanghai Elegant Investment Co.,
which oversees about $278 million in assets, said rising
consumer prices may prompt more policy action, limiting equity
gains. He favors stocks that are in “emerging industries,”
such as new energy and biopharmaceuticals.  “The market may fluctuate around the 3,000-point level,”
he said. “Fundamentals don’t support stocks to go up further
because of the increasing inflationary pressure.”  Government figures today showed inflation accelerated to
4.4 percent in October from 3.6 percent the previous month, the
fastest pace in two years. China may miss the government’s goal
of limiting full-year inflation to 3 percent,  Zhang Ping , the
head of the National Development and Reform Commission, said in
comments published on a state radio website on Nov. 9.  Draining Funds  Yesterday’s increase takes reserve requirements for the
nation’s biggest four banks to 18 percent and will drain about
360 billion yuan ($54 billion) from the financial system, Bank
of America-Merrill Lynch said in a note.  The move is the fourth nationwide increase this year after
a 50 basis point boost in May. In October, the central bank
raised reserve requirements for six banks for two months, people
familiar with the matter said.  Inflows into emerging-market stock funds have surpassed $60
billion and exceeded $46 billion in bond funds, both poised for
their best year since Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR Global
started tracking them in 1995.  “There’s still room for stocks to go up, because we have
abundant liquidity both home and abroad,” said  Zhang Ling , a
fund manager at Shanghai River Fund Management Co. He said he
favors consumer-related stocks, without naming any.  Moody’s raised China’s foreign and local debt rating to
Aa3, the fourth highest ranking, citing the nation’s financial
strength and ability to contain losses from a credit boom.  -- Zhang Shidong . Editors:  Darren Boey ,  Richard Frost ,  Allen Wan   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3040 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  