-- China's E-Fund Plans Up to $500 Million Emerging Markets Funds Next Year
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2010-11-11T00:19:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/china-s-e-fund-plans-up-to-500-million-emerging-markets-funds-next-year.html
E Fund Management Co. , China’s
second-largest mutual fund house, plans to start two emerging-
markets funds early next year through its Hong Kong unit,
rivaling international peers such as Fidelity International.  E Fund Management (HK) Co. plans to raise a combined $200
million to $500 million for a long-short global emerging markets
hedge fund and a long-only fund in their first three to six
months, said  Charles Wang , the unit’s chief executive officer.
It hopes to grow them to as much as $5 billion in five years.  Emboldened by profitable domestic businesses, Chinese money
managers are tapping into rising demand for emerging markets
funds and taking advantage of China’s position as the largest
developing country, said  Peter Alexander , principal at Shanghai-
based fund research company  Z-Ben Advisors Ltd.   “Chinese asset managers are beginning to spread their
considerably funded wings,” said Alexander. “What Chinese
asset managers are saying is, ‘why would you go to some foreign
asset manager to get your China exposure or your emerging
markets exposure when you can go to company that knows emerging
markets better?’”  Wang, 43, who in July became CEO of the Hong Kong unit of
the Guangzhou-based fund house with more than 200 billion yuan
($30 billion) of assets, will co-manage the emerging markets
funds with Fei Peng, 37, who joined on Nov. 7.  ‘China Insights’  Wang was most recently director of research and senior
portfolio manager at Acadian Asset Management LLC, helping run
$12 billion emerging markets investments for the Boston-based
fund house, he said. Fei was previously with State Street Global
Advisors Inc. in Boston from 2004, rising to head of North
American active equities research before his departure, he said.  “We combine the China insights with global experiences,”
said Wang in an interview in Hong Kong yesterday. “We’re here
in Hong Kong, we’re competing with the Goldman Sachs, Fidelities
and Blackstones.”  E Fund is planning the two emerging markets funds as
investor appetite for such investments has returned, yet
allocations to these countries are still too low compared to
their weight in benchmark indexes and the countries’ faster
economic growth, said Wang.  “People used to say emerging markets were risky, developed
markets are safe,” said Wang. “Now they realized it’s not
necessarily the case. Developed markets have a lot of
challenges. Emerging markets have a lot of opportunities,
including fundamentals.”  Investor Inflows  Investors added $74.5 billion to emerging-market equity
funds this year, approaching last year’s record of $83.3
billion, Cambridge, Massachusetts-based research firm EPFR
Global said in a Nov. 5 statement.  MSCI Emerging Markets Index 
gained 16 percent this year, more than doubling the increase in
the MSCI World Index.  E Fund is also starting emerging markets funds in Hong Kong
as local managers tend to oversee China or Asia-focused funds,
with a shortage of talent experienced in running global emerging
markets investments, Wang said.  Acadian Emerging Markets Portfolio  returned 13 percent
annually in the 10 years to December 2009, beating the 11
percent gain of the  S&P/IFC Emerging Markets Regional Investable
Composite Index , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Wang
co-managed the fund between 2002 until he left to join E Fund.  The two funds will screen stocks through research of
company’s fundamentals and quantitative analyses of price trends
and financial information, he added. They may allocate more
money to China stocks because of E Fund’s research ability and
understanding of them, said Wang.  Hong Kong Bridgehead  They will be marketed mainly to international institutions,
as well as wealthy individuals, Chinese companies with assets in
Hong Kong, and seek to raise yuan assets from Chinese investors
for the funds, Wang said.  The long-only fund will seek to beat the  S&P/IFC Emerging
Markets Regional Investible Composite Index  by 4 percent to 6
percent a year. The hedge fund targets a 15 percent annual
return after fees.  E Fund set up its Hong Kong office in 2008 as its
bridgehead for international expansion. The unit is responsible
for overseeing its parent’s international investments and
raising capital from overseas investors for investments in China
or overseas.  Last year, it started a Bright China Opportunity Fund Ltd.,
a long-short pool that invests in China stocks listed in Hong
Kong and other international exchanges such as the U.S. and
Singapore, said Wang. The nearly $30 million fund, managed by
 Nathan Lin  and  Frank Zhu , returned 18 percent after fees last
year and 6 percent in the first 10 months this year.  It also plans to start a long-only China fund, which will
primarily buy yuan shares listed in China and Hong Kong-quoted
Chinese stocks, Wang said.  Zhu was formerly employed by AllianceBernstein LP in the
U.S., Wang said. Other members of the six-member investment
professionals of the Hong Kong unit include  Joseph Zhang , who
worked for Pacific Investment Management Co., and Guangzhou-
based  Joana Gratale .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bei Hu  in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  