-- China Said to Have Raised Reserve Ratio Twice for Some Banks
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-11T05:42:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/china-said-to-have-increased-required-reserve-ratio-twice-for-some-banks.html
China raised  reserve requirements 
for some banks twice yesterday, taking the total increase to 100
basis points for a few lenders, said two people with direct
knowledge of the situation.  China ordered some lenders, including  Bank of
Communications Co. , to increase their reserve ratios by 50 basis
points from Nov. 15, a person with direct knowledge of the
matter said yesterday. That was on top of another half
percentage point increase for all lenders announced late
yesterday by the Chinese central bank, effective Nov. 16, the
people said today.  Inflation  accelerated to the fastest pace in two years in
October, statistics bureau figures showed today, bolstering the
case for the central bank to do more to soak up liquidity and
cool the economy. The government may raise interest rates by
half a percentage point “within weeks,” said Credit Suisse
Group AG, which predicts inflation will exceed 6 percent by the
middle of next year.  The reserve-ratio increase is “fundamentally a positive
move to contain inflationary pressures and prolong the current
economic expansion cycle,” Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts
 Richard Xu  and  Ning Ma  wrote in a note today. The move will have
a “neutral to modest positive” impact on banks’ margins as
tighter liquidity conditions could drive interbank yields higher
and improve lenders’ pricing power, they said.  Bank Shares Rise  Bank shares gained in Shanghai and Hong Kong.  Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , the world’s largest lender by
market value, rose 2.3 percent to HK$6.78 at the 12:30 p.m.
break. China Construction Bank Corp., the nation’s second
largest, increased 0.8 percent, and Bank of China Ltd. climbed
0.7 percent.  Caixin magazine reported yesterday that the selective
reserve-ratio increase will apply to six banks: ICBC,
Construction Bank, Agricultural Bank of China Ltd., Bank of
China, Bank of Communications and Shanghai Pudong Development
Bank Co. All these lenders declined to comment. A press official
at the People’s Bank of China also declined to comment.  Chinese banks advanced 587.7 billion yuan ($89 billion) of
 new loans  last month, the central bank said today, more than the
median 450 billion yuan forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of
25 economists. That took the total amount of new lending to
about 6.9 trillion yuan this year, approaching the government’s
cap of 7.5 trillion yuan for all of 2010.  Consumer prices rose 4.4 percent in October from a year
earlier, more than the median estimate of economists, today’s
report showed.  -- Luo Jun , with assistance from  Li Yanping  in Beijing. Editors:
 Russell Ward ,  James Gunsalus   To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Luo Jun in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  