-- China Should Restrict Rare-Earth Exports to Reduce Pollution, Group Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-11T06:20:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/china-has-to-restrict-rare-earth-exports-to-protect-resources-group-says.html
China, which produces more than 90
percent of the world’s rare earth metals, needs to control
exports of the minerals to protect natural resources and cut
pollution, said the  Chinese Society of Rare Earth s.  Rare-earth prices have surged as much as sevenfold as China
in July reduced its second-half export quota by 72 percent to
ensure domestic supply of the mineral used in laptops, missile-
guidance systems and hybrid cars. The cuts have spurred
companies including Glencore International AG and Molycorp Inc.
to plan to restart and develop mines outside of China.  “China has to strictly manage the exports and make dynamic
adjustments, without hampering development of the world’s high-
tech industries,” said Chen Zhanheng, the head of research at
the society, which represents the nation’s major producers.
“That’s a way to encourage rare-earth resource development in
the rest of the world.”  China will strictly control the export-quota management
systems for rare-earths and phosphorite, the Ministry of
Commerce said today in two separate statements on its website.
Companies who violate environmental and industry laws will have
their export licenses revoked, the ministry said.  China’s export curbs have spurred a trade dispute with the
U.S. and raised tensions with Japan and Germany, who are
concerned about a lack of supply of the minerals needed in
alternative energy and other high-technology industries. China
pledged last month to maintain supply.  Japan Ban  “China should dedicate itself to develop high-tech end
products, rather than shipping out low value-added raw
materials,” Chen said yesterday in an interview in Hong Kong at
a rare earth conference. “The idea to swap mineral resources
for advanced technologies never works.”  China has “unofficially, temporarily, banned shipments of
rare earths to Japan,” in the past few weeks,  Dudley Kingsnorth ,
executive director of Industrial Minerals Company of Australia
Ltd., told the conference. “As far as we’re aware, the
temporary ban, although still unofficial, remains in place. This
brings a lot of uncertainty in the rare earth market.”  Sojitz Corp., a privately held trading house that imports
the bulk of Japan’s rare earth requirements, said shipments from
China have been disrupted since September.  Stop Smuggling  “We are not aware of a resumption of shipments of rare
earths from China to Japan,” company spokesman  Yoshihide Toh 
said by phone from Tokyo today. The company plans to begin
importing rare earth from Vietnam in 2012 to diversify its
sources.  China’s Ministry of Commerce in September denied imposing a
ban on exports to Japan, the world’s biggest user of rare earth
metals.  For the full-year, China cut the export quota by 40 percent
to 30,258 tons, Chen said. Chinese customs have stepped up
scrutiny over the shipments to cut smuggling, which accounts for
20 percent to 30 percent of China’s total production, he said.  Japan’s stockpiles of rare earths may run out as early as
March, Agence France-Presse cited  Yoshikatsu Nakayama , vice
minister of economy trade and industry, as saying on Oct. 21.  “The Japanese government doesn’t have rare earth
stockpiles,” Yasushi Watanabe, group leader of the  Institute
for Geo-Resources and Environment, AIST , in Japan, told
Bloomberg News in an interview. “Companies that use the
minerals normally stockpile supplies for a few months, or even
as long as a year.”  Watanable also said that Japan has been slowly reducing its
usage of dysprosium in magnets over the past three years after
china, the major source of the element, started cutting exports.  Financial Support  Japan Oil, Gas and Metals National Corp. will offer
financial support if domestic companies invest in rare earth
mines, such as Lynas Corp.’s Mt. Weld project and Molycorp
Inc.’s Mountain Pass mine, said  Toshihiko Hayashi , director
general of the state-owned agency’s metal exploration division.
More than 10 trading houses and parts makers are interested in
joining overseas projects, he said, without naming companies.  The world’s major users of rare earths probably have
stockpiles enough for three-to-five years’ consumption, as they
bought the minerals when prices fell to as low as $5.5 a
kilogram in 2001-2005, Chen said, citing his own estimate.  Improper treatment during mining and refining of rare
earths can lead to leakage of radioactive elements, including
thorium and fluorine, which may cause cancers and osteoporosis,
Chen said. There have been reports of such cases near rare-earth
plants in northern China, he said.  -- Helen Yuan  and  Masumi Suga  in Tokyo. Editors:  Keith Gosman ,
 Indranil Ghosh   To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Helen Yuan in Hong Kong at  hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  