-- Chinese Missiles Could Close U.S. Bases in Attack, Report Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2010-11-11T17:12:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/chinese-missiles-have-ability-to-close-u-s-air-bases-in-asia-report-says.html
The Chinese military’s non-nuclear
missiles have “the capability to attack” and close down five
of six major U.S. Air Force bases in South Korea and Japan, an
unpublished government report says.  China’s improved inventory of short- and medium-range
missiles provides a “dramatic increase” in its ability to
“inhibit” U.S. military operations in the western Pacific,
according to excerpts from the draft of the 2010 annual report
by the  U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission 
scheduled for release on Nov. 17.  China’s current force “may be sufficient” to destroy
runways, parked aircraft, fuel and maintenance facilities at
 Osan  and  Kunsan  air bases in South Korea, and  Kadena ,  Misawa  and
 Yokota  bases in Japan, the report says. The facilities are
within 1,100 kilometers (684 miles) of China.  An upgraded missile arsenal, including a 30 percent
increase in cruise missiles since last year, “poses a
significant challenge to U.S. forces operating in the region,”
the report says. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  in June called
China’s improved missile arsenal “a real concern” that also
threatens U.S. aircraft carriers.  Wang Baodong , a spokesman for the Chinese Embassy in
Washington didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  The 12-member bipartisan commission was created by Congress
in 2000 to monitor the U.S. national security implications of
China’s economic and military rise and to report annually to
lawmakers with recommendations for U.S. action.  Spending on Fortifications  The commission’s 2010 report says Congress should evaluate
Pentagon  spending  to fortify bases from Chinese attack,
including missile defenses, early warning systems, runway
repairs and hardening buildings and hangars.  Increased military spending could benefit companies that
make sea-based missile defense and electronic warfare systems,
such as Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed Martin Corp., Waltham,
Massachusetts-based  Raytheon Co. , and Los Angeles-based  Northrop
Grumman Corp. , said  Loren Thompson , a defense analyst with the
Lexington Institute in Arlington, Virginia.  Also standing to gain are ship and submarine makers
Northrop Grumman and  General Dynamics Corp. , based in Falls
Church, Virginia, said  James McAleese , a consultant to defense
companies.  The report also said U.S. Pacific commanders, as part of
their annual budget statements, should report on the “adequacy
of the U.S. military’s capability to withstand Chinese air and
missile assault on regional bases” as well as steps being taken
to strengthen U.S. defenses.  More Explicit Warning  The commission’s conclusions are “certainly much
stronger” and “much more explicit” than related  findings  in
the Pentagon’s own annual report on Chinese military
developments, said  Mark Stokes , an analyst for the non-profit
Project 2049 Institute in Arlington, Virginia, that studies Asia
security issues.  The commission’s report says a decade of improvements in
ballistic missiles and in advanced aircraft carrying precision-
guided weapons “have greatly improved China’s ability to carry
out” a strategy designed to hinder or prevent the U.S. from
operating in the region or from aiding Taiwan in a conflict.  Separately, the commission warns that “the future
deployment” of China’s new anti-ship ballistic missile “could
seriously interfere” with U.S. regional access.  China “appears to be in the final stage of developing”
the missile capable of targeting large ships at sea such as
aircraft carriers,’’ the report says.  The missile, with a range of almost 900 miles, would be
fired from mobile, land-based launchers and is “specifically
designed to defeat U.S. carrier strike groups,” the U.S. Office
of Naval Intelligence has reported.  Higher Profile  The Pentagon places a “high priority” on responding to
the increased threat to U.S. bases and vessels and it “is soon
to gain a much higher profile as a critical public policy
challenge,” said  Richard Fisher , a senior fellow at the
International Assessment and Strategy Center, a nonpartisan
research group based in Alexandria, Virginia.  Some of that higher profile may come from Republican
lawmakers, after their party takes control of the U.S. House in
January, who may advocate a tougher approach toward China.  “We have to look at the totality” of China’s efforts,
said Representative  Randy Forbes  of Virginia, the top Republican
on the House Armed Services readiness subcommittee.  When lawmakers focus on emerging challenges in areas from
cyber warfare to aircraft carriers to missiles, they’ll say,
“we better be changing our readiness capability,” said Forbes,
co-founder of the  Congressional China Caucus .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Capaccio  in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 