-- China Economic Clout Gives Obama `Foil' to Push Domestic Plans
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2010-11-11T23:22:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/china-s-economic-clout-gives-obama-foil-to-make-case-for-domestic-agenda.html
President  Barack Obama  wants
Americans to hear China’s footsteps.  Whether the subject is funding for education, spending on
infrastructure or advancing technology, the president points to
China’s investments in those areas as incentive for the U.S. to
do the same.  While China draws complaints from U.S. politicians and some
business leaders in areas such as currency valuation, trade and
intellectual property rights, Obama often cites the world’s
fastest-growing major economy as much as an example as a threat.  “The administration recognizes the value of a near-peer
competitor both for domestic purposes and to focus foreign
policy,” said  Charles Freeman , a specialist in China studies at
the Washington-based  Center for Strategic and International
Studies .  The competition between the U.S. and China is playing out
at a summit of the world’s 20 biggest economies, which ends in
Seoul today. Obama and the other leaders at the meeting are
aiming to bridge global disagreements over how to spark economic
growth and balance trade between exporting nations such as China
and net importers such as the U.S.  Obama’s meeting yesterday with Chinese President  Hu Jintao 
at the Group of 20 meeting, the seventh face-to-face session
between the two leaders, was dominated by exchange rates and
trade. The U.S.-China relationship also will be at center stage
at the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum that begins
tomorrow in Yokohama, Japan.  Sources of Friction  China has run up a $201 billion  trade  surplus with the U.S.
for the first nine months of this year, more than the U.S.
deficit with the next seven-largest trading partners combined,
according to Commerce Department data.  That gap, together with the drop in American manufacturing
employment and the U.S. contention that the  yuan  -- which has
gained 3 percent since a two-year peg to the dollar ended in
June -- is undervalued, has made China a target for Congress and
voter anger.  At the same time, Obama is confronting new hurdles to
getting his agenda enacted, including spending on education, new
technology research and infrastructure projects, following
midterm elections that gave Republicans control of the House of
Representatives next year and narrowed the Democratic majority
in the Senate.  With the federal budget  deficit  that hit $1.3 trillion in
the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30, Republicans campaigned on
an agenda shrinking the government and cutting expenditures.  Bricks and Mortar  China is the perfect “foil” for Obama in pushing his
plans for roads, bridges and airports, said  Wendy Schiller , a
political science professor at Brown University.  “It’s going to be bricks and mortar and it’s going to
employ all the people that voted Republican,” Schiller said.
“It’s going to be hard for Republicans to say no when you
mention competition with China.”  Before and after the Nov. 2 voting, Obama cited China in
urging support for his proposals.  “We should be able to agree now that it makes no sense for
China to have better rail systems than us,” Obama said at a
news conference the day after the election. “And we just
learned that China now has the fastest supercomputer on Earth.
That used to be us.”  In an Oct. 26 address to Democratic Party donors in Rhode
Island, Obama criticized Republican budget plans that he said
would cut federal education funding by 20 percent.  Playing for First  “Do you think China is cutting it by 20 percent?” Obama
asked, also citing Germany and South Korea, two other nations
with trade surpluses with the U.S. “They’re playing for first
place, and we need to play for first place.”  White House press secretary  Robert Gibbs  said at a briefing
the next day that the president’s remarks are meant to be a
challenge to the U.S. and he’s “not casting aspersions on those
governments.”  “It’s a very interesting twist in the history of the
relationship between the two countries,” said  Pieter P. Bottelier , a professor of China Studies at  Johns Hopkins
University.  “Generally China is characterized as a threat to
the U.S., not as a positive example.”  Yet employing the image of the closest U.S. global rival
for political purposes is also an extension of tactics employed
by Obama’s predecessors, said H.W. Brands, a professor at the
 University of Texas at Austin .  Changing Characters  “During the Cold War, presidents talked about the Soviet
Union. During the 1980s, when the Japanese economy was surging,
they talked about Japan,” said Brands, who was one of a group
of historians who met with the president at the White House last
year. “President Obama talks about China for much the same
reasons.”  Elizabeth Economy , director of Asia studies at the  Council
on Foreign Relations  in New York, said bringing China into
domestic political debates is “a lower common denominator
political argumentation than we ought to be having out of the
White House.”  Still, she said, such rhetoric, particularly as it comes
amid the U.S. political cycle, isn’t likely to have an impact on
the broader U.S. relationship with China.  The Chinese are “sophisticated enough to know that this is
election time and that whatever is being said by and large will
have little bearing post-election,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kate Andersen Brower  in Washington at 
 Kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  