-- China's Inflation Accelerates to 4.4%, Fastest in Two Years
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-11T02:34:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/china-s-october-inflation-accelerates-to-4-4-fastest-pace-in-two-years.html
China’s  inflation  accelerated to
the fastest pace in two years in October, building the case for
the central bank to add to last month’s interest-rate increase.  Consumer prices rose 4.4 percent from a year earlier,
boosted by food costs, a statistics bureau report showed in
Beijing today. That was more than the 4 percent  median forecast 
in a Bloomberg News survey of 28 economists. None forecast such
a large gain. In September, prices rose 3.6 percent.  Moody’s Investors Service today upgraded China’s debt
rating to Aa3 from A1 in a sign of confidence that policy makers
can contain risks and sustain the fastest expansion of any major
economy. Deutsche Bank AG said policy makers will be “more
aggressive” in raising interest rates after yesterday’s 0.5
percentage point increase in the proportion of deposits that
banks must set aside.  “Inflation exceeding 4 percent may increase the odds of
another interest-rate increase before the end of this year,”
said  Shen Jianguang , a Hong Kong-based economist at Mizuho
Securities Asia Ltd., before today’s release. “Food inflation
is not easing as expected.”  Chinese officials are grappling with inflows of money from
bets on yuan gains and a  trade surplus  that surged last month to
$27 billion.  Currency Gains  Speculation that the inflation rate would be 4.4 percent
drove down stocks yesterday, according to  Tu Hai , a strategist
at Guoyuan Securities Co. in Shanghai. Credit Suisse Group AG
said before today’s data that inflation may exceed 6 percent by
the middle of next year.  The government may delay increasing prices for power, gas,
water, oil and public transport, ratchet up reserve requirements,
and accelerate yuan gains,  Ma Jun , a Hong Kong-based economist
at Deutsche Bank, said after yesterday’s reserve-ratio increase.  The Chinese currency, to feature at a Group of 20 summit in
Seoul where Presidents  Barack Obama  and  Hu Jintao  will meet
today, has gained about 2.9 percent against the dollar this year,
compared with the yen’s surge of more than 12 percent. The yuan
closed yesterday at 6.6337 per dollar after rising to the
highest since 1993.  China’s new local-currency lending was 587.7 billion yuan
($89 billion) last month, a report from the central bank showed
today, more than the median 450 billion yuan forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey of 25 economists. M2, the broadest measure
of money supply, rose 19.3 percent from a year earlier, the
central bank said.  Industrial Production  China’s industrial output  rose 13.1 percent last month from
a year earlier, today’s report showed, as the government limited
power use by heavy industries to meet a year-end energy
efficiency target. That compared with a 13.3 percent gain in
September and economists’ 13.4 percent median estimate.  Urban fixed-asset investment rose 24.4 percent in the first
10 months of 2010 from a year earlier, matching analysts’ median
estimate.  Retail sales  gained 18.6 percent in October.  Producer prices  rose at an annual 5 percent pace last month,
the statistics bureau said. That compares with economists’ 4.5
percent median estimate and a 4.3 percent increase in September.
Baoshan Iron & Steel Co., the nation’s biggest publicly traded
steelmaker, reported its smallest quarterly profit this year in
the July-to-September period, partly due to rising costs.  Missing Target  The latest reserve-ratio increase came after the nation’s
top economic planner said this week that the government may miss
its full-year inflation target of 3 percent.  Zhang Ping  cited
“imported inflation” as excessive global liquidity and a
weaker dollar push up commodity costs, and higher food costs due
to bad weather and speculation.  In October, the benchmark one-year lending rate rose to
5.56 percent in the first increase since cuts to counter the
financial crisis. The central bank also increased reserve
requirements for six banks for two months, people familiar with
the matter said then. In the first half of the year, ratios for
all banks rose three times.  Monetary easing by the U.S. Federal Reserve may send money
flowing into emerging markets including China, another topic
that may feature at the G-20 talks, where leaders aim to tackle
global economic imbalances.  The People’s Bank of China said last week that it aims to
return monetary conditions to “normal” and  Zhang Jianhua , the
head of the bank’s research bureau, said Nov. 4 that the
moderately loose stance adopted for the financial crisis has
completed its “mission.”  Besides consumer-price gains, the government faces asset-
bubble risks. Property prices rose 8.6 percent in October from a
year earlier, a statistics bureau report showed yesterday. Year-
on-year increases have slowed as the government cracks down on
speculation by tightening lending.  -- Li Yanping . With assistance from  Jay Wang  and  Chua Kongho .
Editors:  Paul Panckhurst ,  Stephanie Phang .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Li Yanping  in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7568 or
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  