-- Cisco Options Trading Jumps to a Record on Bets the Shares Will Rebound
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2010-11-11T22:17:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/cisco-options-trading-jumps-to-record-on-bets-stock-to-rebound-after-drop.html
Cisco Systems Inc.  option trading
jumped to a record and was 19 times the four-week average on
wagers that the world’s largest computer networking-equipment
maker will rebound after the biggest drop since July 1994.  Volume exceeded 1.58 million contracts as almost 1 million
calls changed hands compared with 586,000 puts as of 4 p.m. in
New York. The most-active contracts were November $21 calls,
April $24 calls and April $18 puts. The shares declined $3.97,
or 16 percent, to $20.52.  “Many investors are utilizing options to position for a
recovery in Cisco’s shares,” said Caitlin Duffy, an equity
options analyst at Interactive Brokers Group Inc., which is
based in Greenwich, Connecticut. “It seems a number of options
traders see the new value of the shares as attractive and ripe
for harvest.”  Cisco, based in San Jose California, tumbled after its
profit and sales forecast fell short of analysts’ estimates
because of increased competition and lower government spending.
The drop wiped out Cisco’s gains since Sept. 2.  November $21 calls traded 69,000 times, more than eight
times the previous number of outstanding contracts before today.
Fifty-eight percent changed hands on the ask price, which
indicates that buyers initiated most of the transactions. The
contracts dropped 91 percent to 30 cents.  “It looks like investors are scooping up cheap calls at
deep out-of-the-money strikes, which could result in significant
profits in the event that Cisco’s shares reverse course before
the end of the year,” Duffy wrote in an e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 