-- Clorox Growth Hinges on Ranch-Dipped Pizza, Scented Trash Bags
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2010-11-11T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/clorox-growth-hinges-on-ranch-dipped-pizza-scented-trash-bags.html
Clorox Co.  is attempting to climb
out of the economic slump by getting consumers to try food and
products that don’t usually go together: Pizza dipped in salad
dressing, for example, or trash bags that smell like vanilla.  Clorox , the owner of about 60 consumer brands ranging from
its namesake bleach to Glad bags to KC Masterpiece barbecue
sauce, began marketing its  Hidden Valley Ranch  salad dressing as
a sauce for frozen-food items after noticing that consumers were
pouring it on pizza, vegetables and chicken wings.  Sales growth for the product approached 10 percent in the
past year, while total revenue rose less than 2 percent. Chief
Executive Officer  Don Knauss  is counting on 15 more big ideas
like that to get the company back on the growth track. That
means finding new products, improving marketing and making
 acquisitions  -- along with finding fresh uses for brands that
are already household names, like Hidden Valley.  “The insight was: This is a condiment, not a salad
dressing,” Knauss said in an interview at the company’s
headquarters in Oakland, California. Clorox set up Hidden Valley
displays in frozen sections and ran TV ads spotlighting the
trend. “Here you have our most premium-priced product, growing
more share than any of our products in a deep recession.”  Clorox’s  brands  include Brita water filters, Burt’s Bees
skin-care products, Fresh Step cat litter, Green Works cleaners
and Kingsford charcoal. Name recognition alone hasn’t been
enough to buoy sales of its products during the recession,
especially as shoppers turn to generic items.  Clorox  lowered its
 sales forecast  for fiscal 2011 last week, saying consumers were
still feeling the pinch of a sluggish economy.  Fifteen Ideas  Knauss, 59, wants to boost sales growth to at least 3
percent or 4 percent, an improvement on last year’s performance.
 New products  and strategies will play a part in that expansion,
he said, without elaborating on what the company is working on.  “Our objective this year was to come up with at least 15
ideas that have at least $15 million in revenue possibility,”
Knauss said. “So that’s a little over $200 million, or 4 points
of growth.”  The company,  started  in 1913, also has added features to
existing products.  Clorox  lifted sales of Glad trash bags last
quarter by adding fragrances and overlaying bags with a web of
material called ForceFlex that prevents rips. Through a
partnership with  Procter & Gamble Co. , it uses scents from the
Febreze air-freshener brand, including vanilla and lemon.  Brita Filters  Clorox scored a similar success with its Brita water
filters, acquired in 1995. Sales of the products had been
stagnant for years, while bottled water surged in popularity.
The trend reversed when shoppers became more concerned about
reducing waste and saving money, Knauss said.  “We said, ‘Holy God, this isn’t just a sustainability
issue, this is an affordability issue. We need to focus on
both,’” Knauss said. “So our advertising changed. That’s one
of the things that’s driven Brita in double-digit growth the
last three years.”  Knauss joined  Clorox  in 2006 as the first outsider hired to
run the company. Prior to that, he spent more than a decade at
 Coca-Cola Co. , overseeing the release of Coke Zero, one of the
company’s fastest-growing brands. He also helped create Coca-
Cola’s Simply brand of orange juice.  Investors are still waiting for a payoff from Knauss’s
tenure at Clorox. The stock price is little changed from when he
took command. That compares with a more than 40 percent gain
under his predecessor,  Gerald Johnston , who became CEO in 2003.  Old Rumor?  In October, Barron’s speculated that Clorox was one of a
dozen companies with moderate debt or high cash flow that could
be a candidate for a leveraged buyout.  “That rumor’s been around since the Eisenhower
administration,” Knauss said. Clorox hasn’t been approached
about a takeover, he said. “In the four years I’ve been here,
I’ve never been called.”  Clorox’s plan to increase revenue includes acquisitions
that would expand its lineup internationally. The company wants
to raise overseas sales to 25 percent of its total by 2013, from
its current rate of 21 percent, Knauss said.  “That’s going to take some acquisitions, along with
organic growth,” he said. The company is likely to target home-
care and laundry products from rivals, including  Colgate-
Palmolive Co. , Procter & Gamble and  Sara Lee Corp. , he said.  Latin America  In 2006, Clorox acquired Colgate’s bleach divisions in six
countries for $126 million to expand in Latin America and
Canada. Additional purchases would likely range from $50 million
to $500 million, Knauss said.  “Are there other brands out there that may not be
strategic to our branded competitors but would be strategic to
us?” he said. “What is there in China, Southeast Asia, Latin
America? We see those as the highest areas of growth.”  Larger “transformational” deals, like Clorox’s $925
million acquisition of Burt’s Bees Inc. in 2007, also are under
consideration, he said. Burt’s Bees gave Clorox a line of
natural skin-care products that the company expanded into 30
countries, up from five.  The company also has shed brands. In September, it agreed
to sell its STP and Armor All auto-care products to private-
equity firm Avista Capital Partners for about $780 million
because the business had been languishing for years.  “If Apple can sell $800 iPads in this economy, we ought to
be able to figure out how to sell more bleach and more trash
bags,” Knauss said. “But it takes innovation to do it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ryan Flinn  in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  