-- Coal India Said to Mull Massey Mine for Its First U.S. Purchase
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y ,   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 2010-11-12T10:37:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/coal-india-said-to-consider-buying-its-first-u-s-mine-from-massey-energy.html
Coal India Ltd. , the world’s largest
coal producer, is considering a  Massey Energy Co.  mine for its
first asset purchase in the U.S., three people with direct
knowledge of the matter said.  The company, based in Kolkata, is currently researching the
deposit, the people said yesterday, asking not to be identified
because the information is confidential. Richmond, Virginia-
based Massey rose to the highest in seven months in New York.  Mines overseas would help the state-run company meet demand
from power stations and steel mills that’s rising faster than
production in Asia’s second-biggest energy-consuming nation.
Coal India, which held 380.5 billion rupees ($8.7 billion) in
cash and bank deposits at the end of June, has set aside 60
billion rupees for acquisitions in the year ending March.  “Being a state-run company, they have a responsibility to
meet this demand,” said  Alex Mathews , head of research at
Geojit BNP Paribas Financial Services Ltd. in Kochi, in India’s
southern state of Kerala. “The timing is right now, as with
recovering economies, prices of assets will only rise.”  Massey spokesman  Jeff Gillenwater  said in an e-mail the
company doesn’t comment on merger and acquisition matters.  The stock rose 96 cents, or 2.1 percent, to $47.02 in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday, the highest
since April 6, and has gained 12 percent this year.  Coal India, which started trading Nov. 4 after selling
shares in the country’s largest initial public offering,
declined 2.6 percent to 320.15 rupees at the close in Mumbai
trading, giving it a market value of $45 billion. The benchmark
 Sensitive Index  fell 2.1 percent.  Asset Purchases  Coal India is studying three assets in the U.S., Australia
and Indonesia, Chairman  Partha Bhattacharyya  said Oct. 25.
Bhattacharyya couldn’t be reached on his mobile phone and
finance director  A.K. Sinha  declined to comment immediately.  Massey  shares  surged 11 percent on Nov. 5 after the Wall
Street Journal said the company is weighing a takeover offer
from  Alpha Natural Resources Inc.  of Abingdon, Virginia.  The U.S. company, the largest coal producer in Central
Appalachia, said in May it isn’t preparing itself for sale.
Massey continues to have discussions with other producers to
pursue joint ventures or asset sales, the company said in a May
26 statement.  Coal India is seeking to buy a mine from Massey and not the
company, the people said. The transaction may be for less than
$1 billion, two of the people said.  Mining Accident  Massey owns the Upper Big Branch mine where 29 people died
in April, the worst U.S. coal mining accident in 40 years. The
company has a market value of $4.7 billion.  The coal producer owns 2.8 billion tons of reserves, 1.3
billion of which are metallurgical coal, used to produce steel.
Benchmark prices for that grade of coal have soared to $209 a
metric ton for the three-month contract ending Dec. 31, 62
percent higher than a year earlier.  India’s government sold a 10 percent stake in Coal India
last month. The company acquired two coal blocks in Mozambique
last year, which may hold a combined 1 billion tons of thermal
coal and some coking coal.  The construction of new power plants and an expansion of
India’s steel industry may triple coal imports from their 2007
level by 2030, the U.S. Energy Information Administration
predicted last year. India may import almost 100 million tons of
coal this year to meet growing demand for the fuel from power
plants, Bhattacharyya said in May.  The country’s imports of coking coal, an ingredient in
making steel, will triple by 2015, Citigroup Inc. analyst  Alan Heap  said at a conference Oct. 7.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rakteem Katakey  in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
 George Smith Alexander  in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net ;
 Mario Parker  in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey St.Onge   jstonge@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 