-- Codelco to Raise Korean Copper Fee by 32% on Demand
-- B y   J a e   H u r   a n d   I c h i r o   S u z u k i
-- 2010-11-11T09:52:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/codelco-plans-to-raise-south-korea-copper-fee-by-32-in-2011.html
Codelco, the world’s biggest copper
producer, is increasing the surcharge on sales to  South Korea 
next year by 32 percent, the second straight annual gain, as
demand climbs in  Asia .  The premium for grade A metal will rise to $98 a metric ton
for Codelco’s second-largest buyer in Asia from $74 this year,
said three industry executives with direct knowledge of the
matter, declining to be identified as the terms are private. The
fee for Japan may gain to about the same level, said Takashi Murata, an analyst at Daiwa Securities Capital Markets Co.  Copper, used in pipes and wires, gained 21 percent this
year and soared to a record $8,966 a metric ton in  London  today
as demand led by China outpaced supply and as investors bought
commodities to protect their assets. The move by Codelco sets a
benchmark for other producers and may spur Freeport-McMoRan
Copper & Gold Inc. and Pan Pacific Copper Co. to follow suit.  “The premium’s increase appears to be more than that in  Europe  and reflects strong demand in Asia,” said Kim Gyung Jung,
an analyst at Eugene Investment & Securities Co. in  Seoul .
Codelco officials are to meet Japanese clients this week and
visit customers in  Korea  early next week, according to the
executives. The premium for Japan was $75 a ton this year, up
from $65 in 2009.  ‘Tighter’ Market  Codelco will raise the fee in Europe by 23 percent to $98 a
ton, said a person with direct knowledge of the matter on Oct.
12. The 2010 premium was unchanged at $80. The fee is added to
the price of copper for immediate delivery on the London Metal
Exchange to cover costs such as shipping and insurance.  China’s inflation accelerated to 4.4 percent in October,
the fastest pace in two years. On Oct. 12, Codelco Chief
Executive Officer  Diego Hernandez  said he expects a “tighter”
copper market next year because of continued demand from  China 
and a lack of new supply.  Three-month delivery copper in London rose 1.8 percent to
$8,915.50 a ton as of 6:47 p.m. Tokyo time. Copper stockpiles in
LME warehouses have shrunk 28 percent this year and are heading
for their first annual decline in six years. Inventories stood
at 362,950 tons today, the lowest level since October 2009.  Copper’s supply deficits look set to grow on demand from
emerging-markets and developed economies, Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. analysts including  Jeffrey Currie  wrote in a Nov. 9 report.
The rundown in stockpiles may cause “periods of extreme
volatility and price spikes.”  Refined-copper output will lag behind demand by 435,000
tons next year, the first shortage since 2007, according to the
International Copper Study Group.  To contact the reporters for this story:
Jae Hur in Tokyo at 
 jhur1@bloomberg.net ;
Ichiro Suzuki in Tokyo at 
 isuzuki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@Bloomberg.net . 