-- Colombian Peso Bonds Decline the Most Since May on European Debt Concern
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2010-11-11T20:31:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/colombian-peso-bonds-decline-the-most-since-may-on-european-debt-concern.html
Colombia’s peso bonds fell, pushing
yields up the most since May, as concern some European
governments may struggle to pay their debts led investors to
seek refuge in the U.S. dollar.  The yield on the nation’s benchmark 11 percent bonds due
2020 rose 16 basis points, or 0.16 percentage point, to 7.22
percent at 3:08 p.m. New York time, according to Colombia’s
stock exchange. That’s its biggest increase on a closing basis
since May 6. The bond’s price plunged 1.291 centavos to 125.646
centavos per peso.  Irish government bonds tumbled for a 13th day on mounting
concern the nation will be forced to restructure its finances
while Spanish bonds also headed for a 13th day of declines on
signs the economy stalled. French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  said yesterday that investors must share in the cost of
safeguarding sovereign debt, backing calls from Germany.  “Concern about Europe is making the market nervous,” said
 Karen Alfonso , an analyst at Bogota-based brokerage Afin SA.  Local investors may also be selling some of their holdings
of the government peso bonds, known as TES, in order to purchase
corporate bonds that are being offered in the local market, said
 Daniel Velandia , head analyst at Bogota-based brokerage Correval
SA.  Isagen, Ecopetrol  Isagen SA, a Colombian state-controlled power producer,
sold 400 billion pesos ($215.2 million) of inflation-linked
securities in the domestic market today. Investor demand for the
securities totaled 1.3 trillion pesos, more than three times the
amount offered.  Ecopetrol SA may sell as much as 1 trillion pesos of bonds
in the Colombian market during the week of Nov. 22 or Nov. 29,
 Laura Ramirez , a member of the sales group at Correval who is
involved in managing the oil company’s debt sale, said in an
interview earlier this week.  “Given all the nervousness, it’s a good excuse to take
profit on TES and buy corporate bonds that may offer better
returns,” said Velandia.  Increased risk aversion also led to a drop in the Colombian
peso, according to Alfonso.  The peso dropped for a fifth day, declining 0.3 percent to
1,858.50 per U.S. dollar, from 1,853.73 yesterday. The decline
pared the peso’s gain this year to 10 percent, the best
performance among the six most-traded Latin American currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Jaramillo  in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  