-- Commodity Exchanges Raise Margin Requirements in Response to Price Surge
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-11-11T09:27:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/commodity-exchanges-raise-margin-requirements-in-u-s-after-prices-surge.html
Commodity exchanges in the U.S. and
Europe are increasing the cost of trading some raw materials in
response to a jump in volatility as prices surge.  CME  Group Inc., the largest futures market, increased
margin requirements, or the amount of money traders must keep on
deposit, for  soybean futures  by as much as 10 percent as prices
jumped to a 26-month high. The CME’s Comex unit raised the
requirement for trading silver to $6,500 a  contract  from $5,000
as the metal reached a 30-year high. ICE Futures U.S. increased
 margins  for cotton as the commodity rose to a record and
 LCH.Clearnet  is raising them for robusta coffee, cocoa and white
sugar next week.  “They’re just trying to limit risk by making you pay more
to play,” said  Michael K. Smith , the president of T&K Futures &
Options in Port St. Lucie, Florida. “We’ve just been getting so
much volatility,” Smith said. That’s the time when the
requirements are raised, he said.  Soybean futures are up 27 percent this year and silver has
rallied 62 percent. Cotton has doubled in the past 12 months,
the most among the 19  raw materials  tracked by the Thomson
Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index, which is up 16 percent. White sugar
prices have jumped to the highest level since at least 1989.  “We frequently adjust our margins across all of our
products, and it’s based on market volatility,”  Michael Shore ,
a spokesman for the CME Group, said in a phone interview
yesterday. The last time the exchange raised the silver margin
requirement was June 7, 2010, Shore said.  ‘Volatile Markets’  Silver yesterday plunged $2.041, or 7.1 percent, to $26.865
an ounce on the Comex. Cotton prices dropped the most allowed by
the exchange yesterday as trading surged to an all-time high.
Earlier yesterday, the price rose to $1.5195 a pound, the
highest level in 140 years of trading. Soybeans fell 9.5 cents,
or 0.7 percent, to $13.195 a bushel in Chicago.  The rise in margin requirements “was certainly one of the
several factors” that led to cotton’s decline, said  Mike Stevens , an independent trader in Mandeville, Louisiana.  It’s not a coincidence that the margin requirements have
been raised on silver, soybeans and cotton, Smith said. Those
have been “the most volatile markets,” and higher margin
requirements slow down speculation, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Campbell  in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 