-- Commie Spies, Red Fear, Family Drama Mix It Up in `Revolution': John Simon
-- B y   J o h n   S i m o n
-- 2010-11-11T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/communist-spies-family-drama-mix-in-revolution-john-simon.html
Amy Herzog’s “After the
Revolution” injects politics -- sometimes movingly, sometimes
rather clumsily -- into an intense family drama.  Joe Joseph has been dead for some time, but a book on
Soviet spies is about to come out with two pages describing his
blacklisting and the information that he imparted to a Soviet
agent while working for the OSS.  Ben, one of his sons, is a Marxist professor whose
somewhat precarious position could be seriously endangered by
the book’s revelations. Ben’s older brother, Leo, sees no real
danger in two pages of a thick academic tome few will read.  Indirectly involved are Mel, Ben’s loving but not
uncritical female partner, and especially Vera, Joe’s feisty old
widow, who still stands fiercely by her late husband. And then
there’s Ben’s alcoholic elder daughter, Jess, and Emma, the
younger daughter, who risks becoming the worst casualty of the
book’s publication.  A lawyer, Emma runs the Joseph Foundation, whose agenda
includes succoring members of minorities with often inadequate
legal representation -- in this case  Mumia Abu-Jamal , the real-
life prisoner who has been on Pennsylvania’s death row since
1981 for a murder that he may not have committed.  Latin Lover  One plot line concerns Emma’s serious affair with Miguel, a
young Latino lawyer who works for her. The Josephs,
overcautiously not identified as Jewish though everything
suggests it, disapprove of Emma’s now second Latino lover.  Another plot line deals with Emma’s friendship with Morty,
a rich old comrade of her grandfather’s, who may not leave his
fortune to the foundation once that book comes out.  Add, among other issues, a terrible rift between Ben and
Emma, and you have more than enough for a two-hour play in this
 Playwrights Horizons  production. But there is an expert cast in
which, under Carolyn Cantor’s fluid direction, Peter Friedman
(Ben), Mark Blum (Leo), Lois Smith (Vera) and David Margulies
(Morty) especially shine. And the writing is genuinely
heartfelt. There is even a sprinkling of humor, though more
would be welcome.  Still, shouldn’t the protagonist have been Ben rather than
Emma? A scent of autobiography lingers not unpleasantly, so I
can only surmise that she is the author’s alter ego. Katharine
Powell plays her well enough, though she could roll her eyes a
bit less.  Through Nov. 28 at 416 W. 42nd St. Information: +1-212-279-
4200;  http://www.playwrightshorizons.org 
Rating: ***  ( John Simon  is the New York drama critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Simon in New York at  jis1925@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 