-- Commercial-Mortgage Debt Prices to Rise in 2011 as Low Rates Spur Buying
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2010-11-11T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/commercial-mortgage-debt-prices-to-rise-in-2011-as-low-rates-spur-buying.html
Prices of commercial-mortgage backed
securities will keep rising as buyers seek higher-paying
investments with benchmark interest rates near zero, according
to  Lisa Pendergast , a strategist at Jefferies & Co.  “Something is going to have to break to prevent investors
from pouring money into CMBS,” Pendergast said during a panel
discussion yesterday at Bloomberg headquarters in New York. “We
are already starting to see mini-bubbles form.”  Sales of bonds tied to commercial property loans are
rising, with about $8.2 billion of the debt sold in 2010, up
from $3.4 billion last year, Bloomberg data show. Issuance
tumbled 95 percent to $11.2 billion in 2008 from a record $234
billion in 2007 as the credit crisis sapped demand.  Standard and Poor’s expects issuance to increase next year,
projecting $35 billion in new bonds. The tally may climb as high
as $50 billion, P.  Sheridan Schechner , managing director at
Barclays Capital Inc., said at the Real Estate Briefing hosted
by Bloomberg Link in New York on Nov. 4.  Top-rated securities linked to hotel, shopping mall and
skyscraper loans yielded 241 basis points, or 2.49 percentage
points more than Treasuries on Nov. 9, compared with a 2.64
percent point gap on Sept. 1, according to a Barclays index. The
debt was yielding 3.95 percentage points more than Treasuries at
the start of the year, the data show.  Delinquencies Turn  About 7.8 percent of commercial mortgages packaged into
bonds were delinquent in October, according to Fitch Ratings.
The delinquency rate fell 88 basis points, the first decline in
three years, according to the New York-based rating company.
A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The October drop was due mainly to the resolution of large
loans, including $4.1 billion from Extended Stay America Inc.,
the hotel operator that emerged from bankruptcy last month.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Deutsche Bank AG sold $2 billion
of commercial-mortgage backed securities tied to Extended Stay
properties on Nov. 3.  “Some of the these sectors are already recovering,”
 Julia Tcherkassova , an analyst at Barclays, said at yesterday’s
event.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Mulholland  in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ; 