-- Copper Output in China Drops in October as High Prices Curb Consumption
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-11T08:40:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/copper-output-in-china-drops-to-400-000-tons-as-high-prices-curtail-demand.html
Copper production  in China, the
world’s largest consumer, dropped in October as high prices and
ample supply of refined material damped buying interest. Steel
output declined.  Output of the refined metal declined 1.2 percent to 400,000
metric tons from 405,000 tons in September, according to the
National Bureau of Statistics. Imports of copper and products
last month fell 26 percent to 273,511 tons, the lowest level in
a year, the customs agency said yesterday.  Copper smelters in China ramped up production in September
amid sufficient supplies of concentrate and scrap. Copper in
London jumped to a record today after China’s inflation reached
a two-year high, prompting investors to buy commodities as a
hedge against accelerating consumer prices.  “The high prices have eroded short-term demand in China
and we see this being reflected in the output and import
numbers,” Zhang Xi, an analyst at Luzheng Futures Co., said
from Shandong.  Metal for three-month delivery on the London Metal Exchange
gained as much as 2.1 percent to $8,945 a metric ton, surpassing
the previous peak of $8,940, set in July 2008. The contract,
which more than doubled last year, has advanced 21 percent in
2010 on speculation that global supply will lag behind demand,
and on prospects for a weaker dollar.  “The output number is in line with our expectation because
we expect to see a trend of lower output in the second half of
this year,” Li Ningqiang, an analyst at Minmetals Futures Co.,
said by phone from Shanghai today. “It’s hard to ramp up supply
even if the prices are higher, because of lower volume and
quality of ore.”  Concentrate Slips  The country’s copper-concentrate production slipped to
108,000 tons in October from 119,000 tons in September, bureau
data showed. Smelters buy the concentrate from mining companies
or use scrap copper, to produce refined material.  Crude- steel production  in China, the world’s largest maker
of the metal, dropped 3.8 percent in October compared with a
year ago as the government imposed power restrictions to meet
energy-efficiency targets. Output was 50.3 million tons,
according to the statistics bureau.  -- Glenys Sim ,  Helen Sun ,  Feiwen Rong . Editors: Richard Dobson,
Jake Lloyd-Smith.  To contact the Bloomberg News staffs on this story:
Feiwen Rong in Shanghai at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net 
 Helen Sun  in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  