-- Canada Stocks Fall as Chinese Interest Rate Concerns Weaken Oil
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 2010-11-12T22:00:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/corridor-resources-franco-nevada-linamar-canada-equity-market-preview.html
Canadian stocks  fell the most in
three months as oil and metals dropped on speculation that China
will raise interest rates.  Suncor Energy Inc., Canada’s largest oil and gas producer,
declined 3.1 percent as crude futures retreated from a two-year
high. Royal Bank of Canada, the country’s biggest bank, lost 1.3
percent as all publicly traded lenders fell. Linamar Corp.,
Canada’s second-largest auto-parts maker, tumbled 11 percent
after reporting third-quarter profit that trailed the average
analyst estimate.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index  decreased 185.5
points, or 1.4 percent, to 12,749.24. For the week, the index
slipped 1.4 percent.  “Canadian equities have really been fueled by the
materials sector,” said  Greg Taylor , who helps oversee C$4.5
billion ($4.46 billion) as a money manager at Aurion Capital
Management in Toronto. “If China could try to slow their
economy down, that could cause a bit of a pullback in some of
the pricing of some of the commodities.”  The S&P/TSX surged 17 percent in the four months ending
last week as the U.S. dollar plunged and  commodities rallied  on
concern U.S. monetary stimulus would weaken the currency. The
greenback is having its biggest weekly gain since August as
unease over European government debt sends the euro lower.  Chinese stocks declined the most since August 2009 today as
investors speculated the People’s Bank of China will raise
interest rates. Yesterday, the country said consumer prices
increased 4.4 percent in October, the most in two years.  Reserve Requirements  On Nov. 10, the central bank raised bank reserve
requirements by 0.5 percentage point, the first nationwide
increase since May.  “China raising reserve rates is one thing,” said  Keith McLean , who oversees C$100 million as a managing partner at GMP
Investment Management in Toronto. “If they hike real rates,
that is an indication they want their growth to slow down more
than the market would like.”  Crude oil retreated the most in three weeks, losing 3.3
percent to $84.88 a barrel. China is the world’s second biggest
user of the fuel behind the U.S., according to the  U.S. Energy
Department .  Suncor lost 3.1 percent to C$34.93. Canadian Natural
Resources Ltd., Canada’ second-largest energy company by market
value, slipped for the first time in seven days, decreasing 2
percent to C$39.76. Talisman Energy Inc., an oil and gas
producer with operations in  North America, the North Sea and
Indonesia , declined 2.1 percent to C$19.62.  Base Metals  All of the major base metals traded on the London Metal
Exchange fell, with zinc tumbling 5.8 percent and copper sinking
the most in four months. China, the world’s largest metals
consumer, sold zinc from its reserves at below-market prices to
curb recent price gains.  Teck Resources Ltd., Canada’s biggest base-metals and coal
producer, decreased 1.5 percent to C$49.61. First Quantum
Minerals Ltd., Canada’s second-largest publicly traded copper
producer, dropped 4.2 percent to C$89.91 after having its rating
reduced to “hold” from “buy” by  David Davidson , an analyst
at Paradigm Capital Inc. Western Coal Corp., which produces fuel
for Asian steel mills, declined 6.3 percent to C$7.27.  Uranium One Inc., the uranium producer in which Russia’s
ARMZ is buying a controlling stake, tumbled 5.2 percent to
C$4.79 before the release of its third-quarter financial
results. The stock has retreated 7.9 percent over the past three
days after soaring 88 percent in the previous four months.  Cameco Corp., the world’s second-largest uranium producer,
fell 3.4 percent from a two-year high to C$36.28.  Financials Decline  Thirty-eight  of 44 S&P/TSX financial companies declined.  Insurers “being down would make sense, given it’s
basically a levered play on the economic recovery,” McLean
said. “To that end, the banks, you can basically throw them
into that category.”  Royal Bank decreased for a fifth day, losing 1.3 percent to
C$53.02. Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, the country’s
fifth-biggest lender by assets, retreated 2.4 percent to
C$75.12. Great-West Lifeco Inc., the  second-largest insurer  in
Canada, fell 2.3 percent to C$25.68.  Precious-metals producers dropped as gold declined the most
since July 1.  Barrick Gold Corp., the world’s largest gold-mining
company, lost 1.6 percent to C$51.25. Goldcorp Inc., the second-
biggest gold producer in the world by market value, decreased
1.2 percent to C$46.85. Silver reseller Silver Wheaton Corp.
slumped 4.1 percent to C$34.11.  Linamar  Linamar sank 11 percent, the most in 16 months, to C$19.92
after missing the average analyst profit forecast by 5.3
percent, excluding certain items.  Michael Willemse , an analyst
at CIBC, cut his rating on the stock to “sector underperform”
from “sector perform,” telling clients “there is likely
better upside” in other industrial companies.  Chartwell Seniors Housing Real Estate Investment Trust,
which owns retirement and long-term-care residences in six
provinces, tumbled 5.1 percent, the most in 13 months, to
C$8.40. The REIT reported third-quarter funds from operation 20
percent below the average of  six analyst estimates .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Walcoff  in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 