-- Cotton Slumps by Exchange Limit in Zhengzhou After China Tightens Lending
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2010-11-11T05:03:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/cotton-slumps-by-exchange-limit-in-zhengzhou-after-china-tightens-lending.html
Cotton futures declined by the
maximum allowed in China on speculation that the country’s move
to tighten lending may curb the amount of money used by
speculators to bet on price gains.  Cotton for May delivery declined 5 percent from yesterday’s
settlement price to 31,345 yuan ($4,731) a metric ton on the
Zhengzhou Commodity Exchange at the 11:30 a.m. local-time
trading break.  China’s central bank yesterday raised lenders’ reserve
requirements as October’s larger-than-forecast $27.1 billion
trade surplus threatened to accelerate inflation. China’s
 consumer prices  jumped 4.4 percent from a year earlier in
October, the fastest pace in two years. Excessive speculation
has spurred cotton trading in Zhengzhou, said Zhou Wangjun, the
deputy director of pricing at the National Development and
Reform Commission.  “The cotton market is wary of comments by Chinese
officials that they will limit the effect of speculation in
commodity markets,” Luke Mathews, a commodity strategist at
Commonwealth Bank of Australia, said in a report today.  Before today, cotton futures in Zhengzhou had surged 96
percent this year as production in China was  forecast  by the
U.S. Department of Agriculture to lag behind domestic demand for
a 12th year, pushing the nation’s stockpiles to the lowest since
the marketing year ended 1995.  March-delivery cotton futures on the ICE Futures U.S. in
New York declined 0.6 percent to $1.4022 a pound. The contract
surged to a record $1.5195 yesterday before slumping by the
exchange limit of 6 cents to close at $1.4111.  Market Jitters  “An increase in the Chinese lenders’ reserve requirements
by 50 basis points sent jitters through the agriculture market,
and cotton, which is particularly reliant on Chinese purchases,
felt the full effect,” Mathews said.  ICE Futures U.S. increased the margins for cotton
yesterday, in response to a jump in volatility. That “was
certainly one of the several factors” that led to a decline in
futures, Mike Stevens, an independent trader in Mandeville,
Louisiana said yesterday.  Before yesterday, futures had surged 95 percent this year
as the U.S. Department of Agriculture  forecast  that the global
market will remain in deficit for a fifth straight year as
harvests fail to keep pace with demand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Luzi Ann Javier  in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole in Singapore at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  