-- Crude Oil Is Unchanged as U.S. Stocks Decline, China's Processing Surges
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2010-11-11T20:57:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/crude-oil-futures-retreat-from-a-two-year-high-on-sovereign-debt-concern.html
Oil settled unchanged as U.S.
equities retreated after Cisco Systems Inc. said profit will
miss analyst estimates and a report showed Chinese refiners
processed a record amount of crude.  Futures retreated from a two-year high as Cisco’s forecast
triggered a selloff in technology companies. Futures surged
earlier today when a report showed that Chinese refineries
processed 12 percent more crude in October than a year earlier,
according to China Mainland Marketing Research Co.  “We traded higher and made a new high on the Chinese
news,” said  Tom Bentz , a broker with BNP Paribas Commodity
Futures Inc. in New York. “We’ve been unable to sustain the
gains. The Cisco announcement sent stocks lower and that appears
to have put a lid on prices.”  Crude for December delivery settled at $87.81 a barrel on
the New York Mercantile Exchange. Futures touched $88.63, the
highest intraday price since Oct. 9, 2008. Oil is up 11 percent
from a year ago.  Prices last ended unchanged on July 26 when sales of new
U.S. homes rose more than forecast and Tropical Storm Bonnie
dissipated without damaging production platforms and refineries.  Brent crude oil for December settlement declined 15 cents
to end the session at $88.81 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in London.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index slipped 0.4 percent to
1,213.91 at 3:22 p.m. in New York, and the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  fell 0.6 percent to 11,286.84.  Refineries in China processed a record 37 million metric
tons, or 8.8 million barrels a day, in October. The previous
high was 8.6 million in June.  Unbridled Demand  “The market perception is that unbridled Chinese demand
will continue to support oil,” said  Christopher Bellew , senior
broker at Bache Commodities Ltd. in London. “But there are
still question marks about whether fundamentals elsewhere can
durably keep prices this elevated.”  Oil demand in China, the world’s largest energy user, may
be even higher than the record indicated by last month’s
refinery utilization rates because of diesel rationing at
service stations, according to a report from Barclays Plc.  Prices in New York climbed 1.3 percent yesterday after an
Energy Department report showed that U.S. crude oil  supplies 
dropped 3.27 million barrels to 364.9 million last week.
Stockpiles were forecast to increase 1.5 million barrels,
according to a Bloomberg News survey. Inventories of gasoline
and  distillate fuel , a category that includes heating oil and
diesel, fell more than estimated.  OPEC Action  “You would think prices would have moved much higher
yesterday after the draw in crude and the products, but a lot
may have already been priced in,” said  Rick Mueller , director
of oil markets at Energy Security Analysis Inc. in Wakefield,
Massachusetts. “A lot of people in the market probably think
prices can’t move much higher and exceed $90 without OPEC taking
some action.”  Saudi Arabian Oil Minister  Ali Al-Naimi  said on Nov. 1 that
a range between $70 and $90 a barrel is satisfactory for
consumers. The kingdom is the biggest crude producer in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.  OPEC raised its 2011 forecast for global oil demand as
industrial consumption recovers in developed countries including
the U.S. and Germany. The organization expects oil use to grow
by 1.2 million barrels to 86.95 million barrels a day next year,
according to the producer’s monthly report today. That’s 120,000
barrels more than last month’s forecast.  Quota Compliance  The group’s compliance with output quotas agreed to in 2008
fell last month as countries including Nigeria and Angola pumped
more oil. Daily production from the 11 members bound by targets
rose 163,600 barrels to 26.89 million, the report showed. That
implies compliance of 51 percent compared with a revised 55
percent for September.  OPEC will increase shipments by 1.2 percent in the four
weeks to Nov. 27, according to Oil Movements, which monitors
tanker charters. The group will export 23.55 million barrels a
day during the period, the Halifax, England-based consultant
said today in a report. The data exclude Ecuador and Angola.  Crude-oil supplies at  Cushing, Oklahoma , the delivery point
for New York futures, declined 1.75 million barrels to 31.8
million, the biggest drop since September 2009, yesterday’s
Energy Department report showed. Stockpiles are at the lowest
level since the week ended April 2.  The longest period of contango in the U.S. oil market may
end as storage capacity at Cushing expands by more than a
quarter. Oil for delivery next month traded at $1.88 a barrel
less than the contract six months out, compared with $9.88 in
May. This contango, in which prompt oil is cheaper than for
later delivery, has averaged $2.70 in the past five years.  Limited Opportunity  The additional storage “limits the opportunity for
contango,” said  Stephen Schork , president of the Schork Group
Inc. in Villanova, Pennsylvania. “If you do have that ability
now to put those barrels into storage, you will see a return
back to fundamentals.”  Oil volume on the Nymex was 658,064 contracts as of 3:13
p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 927,079 contracts yesterday,
the highest level since Oct. 7 and 31 percent above the average
of the past three months. Open interest was 1.48 million
contracts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mark Shenk  in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 