-- Governor-Elect Cuomo Opposes New York Venue for Sept. 11 Trial
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2010-11-11T20:34:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/cuomo-is-against-new-york-venue-for-sept-11-trial-as-u-s-nears-decision.html
New York  Governor-elect Andrew Cuomo
said he opposes holding the trial of the man accused of
masterminding the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks in the state.  Cuomo, 52, answered “no” during a WOR radio interview
today when host John Gambling asked him whether  Khalid Sheikh Mohammed  should be tried in New York, as the U.S. Justice
Department intended late last year. U.S. Attorney General  Eric Holder  said yesterday the Justice Department is close to a
decision on the trial’s location.  President  Barack Obama  began the reconsideration of the
trial’s venue in January, when New York City Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  joined Governor  David Paterson , U.S. Senators  Charles Schumer  and  Kirsten Gillibrand , and U.S. Representative  Peter King  of Long Island in opposing a Manhattan trial.  Bloomberg said it would cost more than $200 million a year
to provide security for trials of the five Guantanamo Bay
detainees accused in the 2001 attacks, in the event they faced
prosecution in U.S. District Court. The courthouse is about a
quarter-mile from where the World Trade Center towers stood.  Cuomo, a Democrat elected Nov. 2 with 62 percent of the
vote, took criticism from Republican  Rick Lazio , a contender for
his party’s gubernatorial nomination, over the issue. Lazio
accused Cuomo of “remaining silent” and avoiding taking a
position.  A Feb. 18  Quinnipiac University poll  found that New
Yorkers, by 68 percent to 25 percent, wanted the trial moved out
of Manhattan. While 42 percent would accept a trial in New York
state, 44 percent wouldn’t, the poll found.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Henry Goldman  in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  