-- Daimler CEO Calls on Governments to Offset Electric-Car Costs
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 2010-11-11T14:38:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/daimler-ceo-calls-for-government-incentives-to-offset-electric-car-costs.html
Daimler AG Chief Executive Officer
 Dieter Zetsche  said governments should offer consumers financial
incentives to buy electric vehicles to help offset the extra
cost for manufacturers to build the cars.  “Even in the best case, the cost of electric autos might
run several thousand euros more than conventional vehicles for
the foreseeable future,” Zetsche said today in a speech in
Stuttgart. “In other words, we need appropriate sales
incentives.”  Daimler , the maker of Mercedes-Benz cars and trucks, is
developing battery-powered versions of the gull-wing SLS sports
car and two-seater Smart city car, to meet regulatory demands to
reduce carbon-dioxide emissions and compete with rival
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG . Daimler, which targets producing
more than 10,000 electric cars by 2012, is building a factory in
eastern Germany to produce lithium-ion power packs.  Manufacturers will struggle to make a profit from electric
vehicles, which will likely account for less than 10 percent of
the cars on the road in 10 years, Zetsche said, adding that the
growth of electric car sales will occur “in many small steps.”  “We won’t earn high returns from electric vehicles for
years to come,” said Zetsche, who heads the world’s second-
largest maker of luxury cars. “That is the optimistic way of
putting it.”  Government incentives for electric cars should be linked to
technological advances such as battery performance, Zetsche said
at a company event on sustainability, which also included a
discussion of ethics.  Ethical Decisions  Zetsche, who plans to add an executive to oversee ethical
and legal issues to  Daimler ’s board, halted the company’s
business in Iran this year because of the government’s political
positions.  “Not every deal that’s legal is legitimate,” said
Zetsche, noting that neither Zimbabwe’s President  Robert Mugabe 
nor Sudan’s President  Umar Al-Bashir  were Daimler customers.
“No deal in the world is worth risking our good reputation.”  Two Daimler AG units pleaded guilty to violations of the
U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act earlier this year. The pleas
from the Russian and German units were part of an agreement with
prosecutors to resolve allegations the German carmaker paid
bribes to foreign officials.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Reiter  in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 