-- Spacing Out Half the Day Makes People Unhappy in Harvard Study
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2010-11-11T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/daydreaming-occurs-in-half-of-waking-hours-except-during-sex-study-finds.html
People spend almost half of their
waking hours thinking about something other than what they’re
doing, and their  daydreaming  usually doesn’t take them to a
happy place, a study reports.  People’s minds wandered about 46.9 percent of the time, and
no less than 30 percent of the time during every activity except
sex, according to a study in the journal  Science . Straying
attention occurred most often at work.  Some religions suggest happiness is to be found by focusing
on what’s happening at the moment, or “be here now,” the
authors wrote, using a title of a 1971 book by spirituality and
 meditation guru  Ram Dass. By analyzing the data over time, the
researchers discovered that people didn’t merely fantasize when
they were unhappy; instead, wandering minds led to unhappiness,
said study author Matthew Killingsworth, a doctoral candidate in
psychology at  Harvard University , in Cambridge, Massachusetts.  “People spend a lot of time with their minds wandering and
that seems to be damaging for their happiness,” Killingsworth
said in a telephone interview. The ability to think about things
other than the present is a uniquely human trait, and seems to
come with an emotional trade-off, he said.  Harvard University researchers surveyed over 2,200 people
 using an app  on their iPhones, made by Cupertino, California-
based  Apple Inc. , to ask them what they were doing, how happy
they were, whether their minds were wandering, and how their
daydreams made them feel. People were aged 18 to 88, and 74
percent of the participants were American.  Thinking Nice Thoughts  Though people thought of positive things 42.5 percent of
the time, they were no happier when thinking of those things
than when focusing on what they were doing, the data showed.
People were more unhappy when their mind wandered to neutral or
unpleasant thoughts.  That the data were immediate, as people were going about
their days, rather than retrospective, allowed researchers to
investigate specific activities throughout the day, including
traveling, working, watching television and eating.  Analysis of the samples over time showed that those whose
minds wandered when asked about their condition reported being
more unhappy after a mind-wandering episode than when focused on
their activity, the authors wrote. No relationship was found
between being unhappy and having a wandering mind at the time of
contact.  “Although this does not preclude the possibility that
unhappiness also caused mind-wandering, such an effect seems to
play at most a modest role in the present results,” the authors
wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Lopatto  in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 