-- DBS's Gupta Aims to Lift Return on Equity to 12% Within 3 Years
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2010-11-11T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/dbs-chief-gupta-aims-to-boost-return-on-equity-to-12-within-three-years.html
DBS Group Holdings Ltd . Chief
Executive Officer  Piyush Gupta , seeking to lift a stock that’s
trailed the bank’s main rivals in 2010, said he’s given himself
three years to boost return on equity to above 12 percent.  Southeast Asia’s largest bank, based in Singapore, posted
return on equity of 10.2 percent for the first nine months of
the year. Gupta said he plans to raise that in part by building
businesses that cater to wealthy individuals and small companies,
and by expanding in China, India and Indonesia.  Bolstering return on equity may prompt investors to re-
evaluate the stock, said Gupta, who joined DBS in November 2009
after a 27-year tenure at Citigroup Inc. DBS trades at a lower
price-to-book valuation than its two Singapore-based rivals
after its  shares dropped  8.6 percent this year, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “The market is already figuring we have a game plan,”
Gupta said in an interview in Singapore on Nov. 10. “If they
start seeing the milestones on execution toward the game plan, I
think we’ll start getting some stock price pick-up.”  DBS trades at 1.23 times book value, compared with 1.36
times for  United Overseas Bank Ltd.  and 1.67 for  Oversea-Chinese
Banking Corp. , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Last
year, DBS’s return on equity, a measure of how well it used
reinvested earnings to generate more profit, was 8.44 percent.  Recruitment Plans  The lender will hire 1,500 people this year and in 2011 as
it seeks to boost  revenue  from its wealth management operations
and units serving small- and mid-sized companies, Gupta said. He
also plans to have 50 branches each in China, India and
Indonesia within three years.  In private banking, which serves clients with at least
S$1.5 million ($1.2 million) in disposable wealth,  DBS  aims for
“double-digit” percentage growth of new assets annually from
emerging markets over the next few years, the bank said in an e-
mail. DBS targets increasing its managed assets to $50 billion
from $35 billion in three years, it said.  Gupta also aims to generate about 40 percent of DBS’s
revenue from Singapore in five years, down from about two-thirds
now, according to a plan unveiled in February. Greater China
would account for 30 percent, and South Asia and the rest of
Southeast Asia may contribute another 30 percent, DBS has said.  The lender plans to focus on corporate and affluent
customers in China and  India , where regulatory restrictions
curtail the bank’s ability to grow through  acquisitions , Gupta
said at the time. Still, the CEO isn’t ruling out making
purchases in Asia’s two fastest-growing major economies if the
restrictions on shareholding limits are eased.  ‘Move the Needle’  “You don’t need large national-sized opportunities” in
the two nations, he said this week. “All we need to do is find
an appropriate regional bank, regional player, regional target,
and that would move the needle significantly for somebody like
us. But the time has not come.”  DBS currently has 16 branches and sub-branches in China, 12
outlets in India, and 40 branches in Indonesia.  Gupta, who had been New York-based Citigroup’s CEO for the
Southeast Asia-Pacific region before being hired by DBS in
September 2009, is confident boosting the return-on-equity level
will help win back investors.  “That’s really the trick to getting the stock price where
you want it to be,” Gupta said this week. “I don’t think you
need to go and do something big and visible for the market to
suddenly wake up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joyce Koh  in Singapore at   jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser in Hong Kong at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  