-- Deficit Cutters Reject Gates on Shielding Defense Budget
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2010-11-12T05:01:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/deficit-panel-s-defense-cuts-face-tough-sell-in-congress-as-gates-balks.html
A  proposal  by leaders of a federal
deficit-reduction panel, suggesting as much as $100 billion in
defense cuts in 2015, contradicts the goals of Defense Secretary
 Robert Gates  and faces a fight in Congress.  The plan, offered Nov. 10 by deficit panel co-chairmen
 Erskine Bowles  and  Alan Simpson , calls for canceling a version
of  Lockheed Martin Corp .’s F-35 jet and ending production of the
 Textron Inc.-Boeing Co.  tilt-rotor V-22 Osprey and a General
Dynamics Corp.  Marine Corps combat vehicle . It also would
terminate a new Army ground combat vehicle that Boeing, BAE
Systems Plc and General Dynamics will bid on.  The proposed  defense cuts  reflect lawmakers’ need to rein
in defense spending as part of restoring fiscal balance and may
provide political cover for Republicans, such as commission
member Senator  Tom Coburn  of Oklahoma, who  say  military spending
shouldn’t be exempt in the national debate, analysts said.  “Republicans are facing the difficult question whether, if
we’re serious about cutting the debt, defense spending can be
exempted permanently from consideration when it represents the
biggest part of the discretionary budget,” said Republican
strategist  John Ullyot .  “The recommendations have put that debate squarely on the
table, and have given fiscal hawks much more ammunition than
ever on including defense programs as part of the overall budget
examination,” Ullyot said.  Wartime Cuts Opposed  Representative  Howard McKeon , a California Republican who
is likely the next chairman of the House Armed Services
Committee, said he opposes “cutting defense in the midst of two
wars.”  “The commission mistakenly assumes that years of war
funding have put the Department of Defense in a position to
absorb cuts; this is simply not the case,” he said. “The
department faces a train wreck in procurement and maintenance
accounts.”  The defense cuts were part of a $3.8 trillion deficit-
cutting plan to trim Social Security and Medicare, reduce
income-tax rates and eliminate tax breaks including the
mortgage-interest deduction.  The plan would reduce the annual deficit from $1.3 trillion
this year to about $400 billion by 2015 and start reducing the
$13.7 trillion national debt. Defense accounted for at least 55
percent of overall discretionary federal spending this year,
according to the Office of Management and Budget.  ‘Opening Salvo’  “This is the opening salvo of a long campaign,” said
 Robert Stallard , a defense stocks analyst at RBC Capital Markets
in New York. “The recommendations will reinforce investors’
concerns that the defense industry faces both revenue and
profit-margin pressures for the foreseeable future.”  The proposals would be a “tough” sell in Congress, Senate
Budget Committee Chairman  Kent Conrad  said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television yesterday.  While Gates has proposed $100 billion of cuts in
administrative expenses, “he then transfers the reduction to
other parts of the defense budget,” said Conrad, a North Dakota
Democrat who sits on the deficit panel.  “What this proposal says is, ‘no, we can’t afford to make
that transfer,’” Conrad said. “This report says, ‘yes, you are
right, Mr. Secretary, but we have to bring those savings to the
bottom line.’”  Gates has pushed for no reduction to the 1 percent annual
real growth envisioned through 2015, allowing the military
services to keep all of a separate, planned $100 billion in
efficiency savings and stable funding for the $382 billion F-35
program.  Tough Economic Times  “My greatest fear is that in economic tough times people
will see the defense budget as the place to solve the nation’s
deficit problems, to find money for other parts of the
government,” Gates  told  reporters Aug. 9.  The Pentagon needs to make “a compelling argument for
sustaining” the overall defense budget amount, he said.  It would be “disastrous” to “slash it in an effort to
find some kind of dividend to put the money someplace else,” he
said.  The National  Commission  on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform
needs agreement from 14 of its 18 members before a plan can be
sent for an up-or-down vote in Congress.  Gates’s view that defense can be held steady while
entitlement programs such as Social Security and Medicare
contribute most savings “is arithmetically and politically
untenable,” said  Loren Thompson , defense analyst with the
Arlington, Virginia-based Lexington Institute.  ‘A Fierce Debate’  Mackenzie Eaglen  of the Washington-based Heritage
Foundation, which favors increased defense spending, said the
recommendations are “certain to generate a fierce debate about
how America can begin to restore fiscal responsibility.”  “While debate is healthy, it should be a fair fight,” she
said. “This report is not spreading the pain equally, given
that it proposes to cut defense to the bone during a time of war
no less.”  The deficit panel’s $100 billion in defense cuts refers to
budget “authority to spend” and translates into deficit
savings in 2015 closer to $90 billion in actual money spent in
the fiscal year, said commission spokesman Frederick Baldassaro.
The 2015 defense budget is now projected to be about $666
billion.  Potential  cuts  include freezing noncombat pay at this
year’s level for three years, trimming $20 billion of $137
billion in 2015 planned spending on weapons. That includes
ending production of Lockheed’s Marine Corps F-35 version for a
savings of $3.9 billion in 2015.  The proposal also includes substituting cheaper Lockheed
Martin F-16s and Boeing F-18s for 680 Air Force and Navy F-35s
models, saving an estimated $2.3 billion in 2015.  Ending the V-22 program at 228 aircraft could save $1.1
billion, while canceling the Marine Corps Expeditionary Fighting
Vehicle would save $650 million in 2015.  Another $28 billion in proposed 2015 defense efficiencies
would be shifted to the general Treasury instead of into
military equipment accounts, a step Gates opposes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Capaccio  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  