-- DeNA’s CEO Sees Facebook, Zynga as Potential Partners
-- B y   P a v e l   A l p e y e v   a n d   Y o s h i n o r i   E k i
-- 2010-11-11T07:13:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/dena-may-partner-facebook-zynga-for-oversease-expansion-chief-namba-says.html
DeNA Co. , Japan’s biggest developer
of social games for mobile phones, may partner with Facebook
Inc. or  Zynga Game Network Inc.  as the company seeks to expand
overseas, Chief Executive Officer  Tomoko Namba  said.  “There’s a real possibility of a marketing alliance with
Facebook to grow our customer base, because they focus on real-
world connections between people while we target virtual
relationships,” Namba said in an interview in Tokyo on Nov. 9.
“Zynga could be a potential partner as a game developer for our
platform,” she said, without giving further details.  DeNA has more than 21 million users in Japan and aims to
quadruple sales in four years by targeting U.S. consumers who
use smartphones to play games. Shipments of game-capable
handsets are set to rise 11 percent to 1.27 billion this year,
according to market researcher iSuppli Corp.  Dani Dudeck , a spokeswoman for San Francisco-based Zynga,
and  Jonathan Thaw , a spokesman for Palo Alto, California-based
Facebook, declined to comment on a potential tie-up.  DeNA  rose 1.1 percent to close at 2,478 yen on the Tokyo
Stock Exchange, extending its gain this year to 35 percent. The
benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average has lost 6.5 percent in the
period.  Overseas Acquisitions  The company’s  sales  will climb to about 400 billion yen
($4.9 billion) in the year ending March 2015 from an estimated
100 billion yen this fiscal year, Namba said at a briefing on
Nov. 1. Overseas operations will account for about half the
revenue, compared with almost zero now, she said at the time.  DeNA earlier this month reported net income rose 17 percent
to 7.64 billion yen in the three months ended Sept. 30, as sales
increased 12 percent to 27.1 billion yen. The company cited
demand for virtual goods, in-game advertising and avatars, which
accounted for about 86 percent of its sales in the quarter.  The Tokyo-based company agreed last month to pay $400
million for  Ngmoco , a builder of games for Apple Inc.’s iPhone,
to create the world’s largest mobile social games company. The
deal is DeNA’s third involving a U.S. company in the past year,
including last month’s purchase of Gameview Studios Llc.  The acquisition is designed to help DeNA create a system
that will let developers make games that run on both Apple and
 Google Inc. ’s Android operating systems, according to the
company. Ngmoco will also help DeNA make its Mobage Town gaming
site into a global service, the company said.  ‘Bandit Nation’  Games played on social networks are typically free, with
the makers of the titles generating revenue by selling virtual
goods such as body armor and machine guns for DeNA’s most
popular game, “Bandit Nation.” Mobage members play titles made
by DeNA and third-party developers and get free access to social
networking features such as blogs, e-mail and avatars.  In “ Bandit Nation ,” users battle criminal bosses and
other players for treasures and virtual currency. Players can
also band together and take on rival gangs. Virtual police
prevents advanced users from preying on beginners.  Zynga’s “FarmVille,” where users pretend to grow
vegetables by buying equipment, is Facebook’s most popular game
with more than 55 million users, according to  AppData.com , a
website that tracks application use on the social networking
portal. “Bandit Nation,” released on Facebook in May, was not
in the top 1,000 ranking.  DeNA aims to increase global subscribers to about 200
million in four years, compared with 12 million in Ngmoco’s
network, Namba said.  “For us to be a global player, our users need to measure
in the hundreds of millions,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yoshinori Eki  in Tokyo at 
 yeki@bloomberg.net ;
 Pavel Alpeyev  in Tokyo at 
 palpeyev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  