-- Disagreements Over Claims in South China Sea Are Intractable, Thayer Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-11T15:03:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/disagreements-over-claims-in-south-china-sea-are-intractable-thayer-says.html
South China Sea sovereignty disputes
are “intractable,” worsened by China’s increased capacity to
enforce claims and attempts to stop Vietnam’s efforts to form a
united front, said  Carlyle Thayer , a politics professor.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  offered to mediate
between China and Japan last month after a collision of boats
from the two nations sparked a war of words. Also in October,
Vietnam demanded that China release a fishing vessel seized in
or near disputed waters and  last week protested  a Chinese map’s
depiction of areas in what Vietnam calls “the Eastern Sea.”  Disputed regional areas include the Spratlys, a collection
of reefs, islands and atolls that the U.S. Energy Information
Administration  this month described  as “potentially hydrocarbon
rich.” Growing rhetoric over disputed areas may hinder plans to
study a location’s potential fuel resources and create threats
to international shipping routes.  “Sovereignty claims will remain intractable,” Thayer, a
professor at the Australian Defense Force Academy in Canberra
who has written about Vietnam for three decades and focuses on
the country’s politics and military, said today at a conference
in Ho Chi Minh City. “China’s lack of transparency has raised
legitimate questions about its strategic intentions.”  Code of Conduct  Vietnam tried to accelerate diplomatic efforts this year to
agree to a more binding code of conduct in the South China Sea,
Thayer said. A 2002 declaration signed by all members of the
Association of Southeast Asian Nations and China commits the
parties to resolve territorial disputes peacefully.  The Chinese government has “attempted to thwart efforts by
Vietnam, the current chair of the Association of Southeast Asian
Nations, to forge a united front against China on the South
China Sea,” Thayer said.  Clinton’s call in July for a multilateral approach to
resolve South China Sea disputes resulted in a “sharp rebuke”
from her Chinese counterpart, according to Thayer.  Nguyen Phuong Nga, a Vietnamese Foreign Ministry
spokeswoman, said on Nov. 5 that China should “refrain from
complicating or expanding” disputes about areas in the sea.  China has carried out “repeated seizures of Vietnamese
fishing boats” and imposed fishing bans, and it’s unclear
whether China has elevated the South China Sea to a so-called
“core interest” on par with Taiwan or Tibet that would imply
willingness to use force to defend claims, Thayer said.  ‘Strategic Uncertainty’  “China is developing even greater capability to enforce
its sovereignty claims in the South China Sea through the
production of more Fishery Administration vessels,” Thayer
said. “China’s rise and military modernization and
transformation continue to reinforce strategic uncertainty in
the minds of regional defense planners.”  China needs a peaceful environment to develop economically
and is behaving responsibly, Su Hao, a professor at the China
Foreign Affairs University in Beijing, said at the conference.  “Regarding ‘core interests’ and the South China Sea,
Professor Su Hao said China has never used that term in any of
its official documents,” according to a press release
summarizing today’s discussions. “Professor Su Hao said China
hasn’t threatened anyone; it has only reacted to some new
developments in the region.”  U.S. interests in Vietnam include concern over China’s
growing strength, the Congressional Research Service  said in a
report  last year.  “One key question is the staying power of the United
States and its willingness to maintain the balance of power in
the maritime domain,” Thayer said. “Southeast Asia will
continue to be affected by great power rivalry.”  -- Jason Folkmanis  in Ho Chi Minh City. Editors: Lars Klemming,
Jan Dahinten.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at   lklemming@bloomberg.net . 