-- DNO Chief Says Iraq Government Deal Boosts Chances for Kurdish Oil Exports
-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 2010-11-11T15:21:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/dno-chief-says-iraq-government-deal-boosts-chances-for-kurdish-oil-exports.html
DNO International ASA  said a
breakthrough in talks to form a government in Iraq will be an
“important milestone” in paving the way for the resumption of
oil exports from the Kurdish region.  “Getting a government in place is a necessary step for
this process to move on,” Chief Executive Officer  Helge Eide 
said in an interview in Oslo today. “If this happens, it’s a
very positive development, and we hope things can now be
resolved.”  Legislators in Baghdad reached an agreement on a government
last night after eight months of deadlock. The new coalition
will have to resolve a dispute over the passage of a law
governing the use of Iraq’s oil and gas reserves. The semi-
autonomous Kurdish region in northern Iraq suspended oil exports
last year following a row over payments to foreign companies,
including Oslo-based DNO.  “If we’re able to get a viable government in place I
believe everyone, including the Kurds, will have the issues that
are important to them heard,” Eide said. “And we know what
position they’ve taken with regards to oil exports.”  DNO’s chief executive said negotiations between the Kurdish
Regional Government, or KRG, and Iraq’s central authorities on
oil exports meant a foundation was in place for an agreement
that would enable exports to resume more rapidly.  “We can assume that there have been a lot of discussions
around this and perhaps some agreements have been reached, but
this can’t be implemented until we have a government,” Eide
said.  Shipments Halted  “The Kurds have likely secured a deal regarding
concessions on the oil law and approving the Kurdish oil
contract in return for their support of” Iraqi Prime Minister
 Nuri al-Maliki ,  Trond Omdal , an analyst at Arctic Securities
ASA, said in a note. “We therefore regard a new Maliki-
government supported by the Kurds as positive for DNO.”  DNO has pumped oil in the Kurdish region since 2007 and in
June 2009 started exports through Turkey until shipments halted
in September of that year.  The company had been delivering about 45,000 barrels a day
through a pipeline to Ceyhan in Turkey. Eide said DNO could
bring production at its Tawke field up to full capacity “quite
quickly” once the company received permission to resume
exports. DNO recently reached capacity of 56,000 barrels a day
in production at Tawke’s central processing facilities, Eide
said today.  Quarterly Loss  Earlier today, DNO  reported  a third-quarter net loss of 146
million kroner ($25 million), down from a restated loss of 138
million kroner a year prior. The company in February restated
sales for last year after an estimated $133 million in Iraqi
revenue failed to materialize.  The stock fell 0.275 krone, or 2 percent, to 8.830 kroner
as of 4:03 p.m. in Oslo, capping this year’s advance at 74
percent.  The company’s earnings were affected by a provision of 322
million kroner related to claims and legal costs in connection
with a case at the London Court of International Arbitration
against undisclosed parties that had held stakes in its assets.
DNO is disputing the terms and conditions of the award ruled by
the court, Eide said at a press conference today.  Sales rose 73 percent to 407 million kroner, buoyed by a 79
percent increase in net entitlement production to 16,161 barrels
of oil equivalents a day. DNO’s realized oil price slipped 8.5
percent to $44.99 per barrel due to an increased shared of its
production being delivered to the local market in Kurdistan,
where it is sold at a discounted price.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Marianne Stigset  in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  