-- Dollar to Extend Climb Against Yen on Bullish Cloud: Technical Analysis
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   H i r o k o   K o m i y a
-- 2010-11-11T22:49:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/dollar-to-extend-climb-against-yen-on-bullish-cloud-technical-analysis.html
The dollar may rise to a seven-week
high of 85 yen as technical indicators signal a bullish trend,
according to Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd.  The daily ichimoku chart shows the dollar extended gains
after rising above the so-called baseline on Nov. 10, similar to
the greenback’s advance on Sept. 15 when Japan sold the yen in
its first intervention since 2004, said  Hiroyuki Tanaka , chief
technical analyst in Tokyo at the unit of Japan’s second-largest
bank. The dollar gained momentum this week as the conversion
line climbed above the baseline, making a so-called golden
cross.  “The dollar advanced above the baseline this time without
intervention -- that’s significant,” Tanaka said in an
interview yesterday.  The U.S. currency is set to rise toward the so-called cloud
of the ichimoku chart, Tanaka said.  “The cloud was very thick when intervention occurred, but
it’s thin now, making it an easy target,” Tanaka said. “Once
it enters the cloud, the dollar may break through it quickly.”  Should the greenback rise above the cloud around 83.70 yen
next week and hold those levels, it may advance to 85 yen, a key
psychological level, Tanaka said. That would be the highest
level since Sept. 24.  The dollar traded at 82.50 yen as of 7:48 a.m. in Tokyo
from 82.49 in New York yesterday.  Ichimoku analysis, developed by a Japanese journalist, is
used to predict a currency’s direction through analyzing the
midpoints of historical highs and lows. The conversion line
plots the sum of the highest high and lowest low over the last
nine trading days. The baseline is the same calculation over the
past 26 days.  A golden cross signals a bullish trend and occurs when a
short-term moving average passes above a longer-term line.  In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to forecast changes in a
security, commodity, currency or index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
 Hiroko Komiya  in Tokyo at 
 hkomiya1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 