-- Dollar Weakens Before G-20 on Speculation China Allowing Faster Yuan Gains
-- B y   R o n   H a r u i   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2010-11-11T08:19:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/dollar-weakens-before-g-20-on-speculation-china-allowing-faster-yuan-gains.html
The dollar weakened against most of
its major counterparts after China’s yuan rose to the strongest
level since 1993, fueling speculation the Asian nation is
allowing faster gains as Group of 20 leaders meet in Seoul.  The greenback dropped for a third day versus the yuan on
prospects developing nations will agree to scale back efforts to
hold down the value of their currencies. The New Zealand dollar
rose for a second day as data showing China’s economy is
improving boosted demand for higher-yielding assets. Taiwan’s
dollar jumped the most in a decade on speculation overseas
investors will add to holdings of the island’s assets.  “The yuan’s rate is being fixed higher these past couple
of days, ahead of the G-20 meeting,” said  Satoshi Okagawa , head
of the foreign-exchange and money trading group in Singapore at
Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp., a unit of Japan’s third-largest
banking group. “China may be trying to say to the G-20 that
they’re doing their part by letting their currency gain. That is
causing the dollar to weaken.”  The dollar traded at $1.3786 per euro as of 7:55 a.m. in
London from $1.3783 in New York yesterday, when it climbed to
$1.3671, the strongest since Oct. 5. The U.S. currency slipped
0.2 percent to 6.6235 yuan, and traded at 82.21 yen from 82.28
yen. The euro was at 113.35 yen from 113.41 yen.  G-20 Accord  G-20 nations including China are trying to forge an
agreement on currencies that goes beyond an accord reached by
finance ministers and central bank governors last month, the
group’s committee spokesman Kim Yoon Kyung said in Seoul today.  Finance ministers agreed in October to “move towards more
market determined exchange rate systems that reflect underlying
economic fundamentals and refrain from the competitive
devaluation of currencies.” G-20 leaders are gathering for a
two-day summit starting today.  Policy makers from Asia to Latin America have said it’s the
U.S. Federal Reserve’s liquidity injections, known as
quantitative easing or QE that are warping global capital flows
and driving down the dollar. The central bank of South Korea,
the G-20’s host nation this year, today joined in that
assessment of the Fed’s Nov. 3 decision to buy $600 billion of
Treasuries, saying it will weaken the dollar.  “One of the reasons why the G-20 continues to make some
progress currently is directly linked to the Fed’s QE
decision,” analysts including London-based economist  Thomas Stolper  at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., wrote in a note yesterday.
“The world’s central banks hold about $2.8 trillion of U.S.
Treasury securities, and if the Fed starts to monetize debt, the
pressure rises to find better globally coordinated policies. No
doubt, broad dollar depreciation will be part of the mix.”  Consumer Prices  China’s  consumer prices  rose 4.4 percent from a year
earlier, the statistics bureau said in Beijing. That was more
than the 4 percent forecast in a Bloomberg survey. Industrial
production advanced 13.1 percent and retail sales grew 18.6
percent in October from a year ago, the government also said.  China’s foreign and local debt rating was raised by Moody’s
Investors Service today to Aa3, the fourth-highest ranking.
Moody’s cited the nation’s financial strength and ability to
contain losses from a credit boom.  The New Zealand dollar strengthened against all its 16
major counterparts as Asian stocks advanced for the first time
in three days. China is New Zealand’s second-biggest export
market and Australia’s largest trading partner.  The data “show solid improvement in China’s
fundamentals,” said  Mitul Kotecha , head of global currency
strategy at Credit Agricole CIB in Hong Kong. “It helps risk
appetite to some extent, which perhaps helps” the New Zealand
and Australian currencies.  New Zealand’s dollar gained 0.5 percent to 78.65 U.S.
cents, and rose 0.4 percent to 64.65 yen. The  MSCI Asia Pacific 
Index of shares increased 0.4 percent.  Taiwan’s Dollar  Taiwan’s currency climbed for a third day after the United
Daily News reported that billionaire  George Soros ’ hedge funds
are targeting the Taiwan dollar for trading. Global funds bought
$409 million of the island’s shares this week, boosting this
year’s net purchases to $7.1 billion, exchange data show.  “It’s the better economic growth that attracts investors
into Taiwan,” said  Tarsicio Tong , a currency trader at Union
Bank of Taiwan. “The central bank would know if Soros is buying
the Taiwan dollar, and it will watch the currency even more
closely then.”  The Taiwan dollar strengthened as much as 1.9 percent, the
most since January 2000, to NT$30.039 versus the greenback. It
was 0.2 percent stronger at NT$30.532.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ron Harui  in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 Myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 