-- Dubai Holding Unit Forms Committee to Start Debt Renegotiation With Banks
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2010-11-11T08:41:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/dubai-group-forms-coordinating-committees-of-banks-for-debt-payment-talks.html
Dubai Group LLC  established a
committee of banks to review its loans, the third part of state-
owned Dubai Holding LLC to start debt renegotiations.  “These discussions are making good progress and Dubai
Group is confident of a positive outcome that is beneficial to
all stakeholders,” the company said in a statement today. “In
the meantime, Dubai Group continues to service its debts.”  Dubai Financial Group LLC, a unit of Dubai Group, has a
$1.5 billion unsecured Islamic loan maturing in June, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The loan was set up in June 2008.  Dubai-owned companies are struggling to repay loans after
the worst financial crisis since the 1930s froze credit markets
and blocked their access to new debt. Dubai Group’s parent,
Dubai Holding, owned by the emirate’s ruler  Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid  Al Maktoum, is one of three main state-controlled holding
companies, alongside Dubai World and Investment Corporation of
Dubai.  Dubai World said Sept. 10 it got approval from 99 percent
of creditors for its $24.9 billion debt plan. In November, the
company sent emerging market stocks tumbling after it sought to
delay loan payments.  Dubai Holding, which holds stakes in companies such as
U.K.-based hotel chain Travelodge, Doncasters Plc and Madam
Tussauds through Dubai International Capital and Dubai Group,
owes banks about $12 billion, a person with knowledge of the
matter said in May. Almost three-quarters of this debt has been
racked up by DIC and Dubai Group, the person said.  Dubai International and Dubai Holding’s property and
hospitality arm, Dubai Holding Commercial Operations Group, have
already rescheduled some of their debt repayments.  Dubai Group holds stakes in Malaysian lender Bank Islam
Malaysia Bhd. and Marfin Popular Bank in Cyprus, according to
its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stefania Bianchi  in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 Eevans3@bloomberg.net  