-- Eaton's Cutler Urges More Aggressive Trade Talks to Create Export Markets
-- B y   W i l l   D a l e y
-- 2010-11-11T19:52:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/eaton-s-cutler-urges-more-aggressive-trade-talks-to-create-export-markets.html
The U.S. should begin negotiating
multiple trade agreements simultaneously to meet President
 Barack Obama ’s goal of doubling exports in five years, Eaton
Corp. Chief Executive Officer  Sandy Cutler  said.  “We have had trade on the cooler for two years,” Cutler,
59, said today in an interview at Bloomberg’s world headquarters
in New York. Cutler urged more aggressive negotiations as Obama,
in Seoul, said free-trade talks with South Korea have yet to
produce an agreement.  The U.S. needs more access to India, China, Brazil, parts
of South America, the Middle East and South Africa, because
that’s where the fastest growth is taking place, said Cutler,
whose company makes circuit breakers and parts for factory
equipment.  Eaton garnered about  47 percent  of its $11.9 billion in
sales last year outside the U.S., up from about 35 percent in
2004, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Cleveland, Ohio-based company has set a goal of
increasing that figure to 60 percent, with 30 percent of sales
in  emerging markets , Cutler said on a conference call Nov. 9.  The U.S. should follow the lead set by countries including
the U.K. and Germany, he said.  “They’ve recognized if their own domestic economy is not
growing quickly, you need to be establishing very active
additional trade agreements,” Cutler said in the interview.  Elections last week that gave control of the U.S. House of
Representatives to Republicans and increased their membership in
the Senate may boost the chances that Congress will pass free-
trade agreements with South Korea, Colombia and Panama that
President  George W. Bush  approved in 2007, lawmakers said.  ‘Need to Finish’  Obama, who refrained from pushing those deals in Congress
amid high unemployment, has said the South Korean accord needs
modifications on beef and autos before Congress considers it.  “We clearly need to finish Korea,” Cutler said. “It’s
been going on for a year and a half. It’s the only one we are
working on, so it’s pretty easy to say that’s the one we should
focus on.”  Obama and South Korean president  Lee Myung Bak  said in
Seoul today that free-trade talks between the two countries will
continue after they were unable to meet the U.S. president’s
goal of reaching a modified agreement by the time of his visit
to the South Korean capital.  With almost $68 billion in two-way trade between the
nations, the deal would be the U.S.’s largest free-trade accord
since the North American Free Trade Agreement in 1994.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Will Daley  in New York at 
 wdaley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  