-- Telefonica's Record Net Disappoints Analysts on Domestic Woes; Shares Fall
-- B y   P a u l   T o b i n
-- 2010-11-11T17:22:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/telefonica-third-quarter-profit-jumps-to-record-10-3-billion-on-vivo-deal.html
Telefonica SA ’s record quarterly
profit fell short of analyst estimates after an accelerated
decline in domestic wireless revenue hurt Europe’s second-
largest phone company.  Shares slid after the Spanish company’s third-quarter net
income climbed to 5.06 billion euros ($6.95 billion) from 1.88
billion euros a year earlier, boosted by a gain related to its
7.5 billion-euro purchase of control of Brazil’s  Vivo
Participacoes SA . The profit was less than the average analyst
estimate of 5.45 billion euros from a  Bloomberg survey .  Chairman  Cesar Alierta  sought to reduce Telefonica’s
dependence on its home country, raising his bid three times to
convince  Portugal Telecom SGPS SA  to sell its part of their
50-50 venture that controlled Vivo, Brazil’s largest wireless
operator. Spain’s  economy  stalled in the quarter as the deepest
austerity measures in three decades undermined its recovery from
an almost two-year recession, a government report showed today.  “Spanish trends have worsened, which is clearly a
negative,” said  Roger Appleyard , head of global credit research
at RBC Capital Markets in London. “The picture in Brazil is a
lot more encouraging.”   Telefonica shares declined  1.6 percent to 18 euros in
Madrid. The stock has dropped 7.8 percent this year, compared
with a 1.4 percent increase for the  Bloomberg Europe
Telecommunication Services Index .  Operating Income  In the latest quarter, sales climbed to 15.23 billion euros
from 14.2 billion euros and operating income before depreciation
and amortization jumped to 9.46 billion euros from 5.72 billion
euros. Operating income by that measure was expected to reach
9.5 billion euros on sales of 15.1 billion euros, according to
the survey.  Spanish sales fell 3.6 percent to 4.72 billion euros.
Domestic wireless service revenue slumped 7.9 percent, compared
with a 5.7 percent decline in the second quarter and a 7.1
percent contraction in the first three months of the year.  Telefonica wasn’t the only European phone company to
disappoint this earnings season.  Telecom Italia SpA  said last
week that nine-month domestic sales fell 7.4 percent to 15
billion euros and that Italian mobile revenue dropped more than
10 percent. Telefonica indirectly owns a stake in Italy’s
biggest phone company.  Latin America  Telefonica’s  revenue  in Latin America climbed 12 percent to
6.37 billion euros, while European sales outside Spain grew 14
percent to 3.96 billion euros. Sales in Latin America were
predicted at 6.4 billion euros while European sales excluding
Spain were seen at 3.88 billion euros, according to a survey of
six analysts. Overall Spanish sales were in line with estimates.  The Vivo deal added a 3.5 billion-euro gain under new
accounting rules, based on International Financial Reporting
Standards. Telefonica’s previously held stake in the venture was
revalued under the rules based on the price it paid to buy out
Portugal Telecom.  Telefonica today reiterated its short- and mid-term goals,
including its dividend commitments. Telefonica has pledged to
pay a 2012  dividend  of at least 1.75 euros per share.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Paul Tobin  in Madrid at 
 ptobin@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  