-- Telefonica O2 Czech Gains on Higher Dividend Bets After Earnings Surprise
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2010-11-11T10:05:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/telefonica-o2-czech-gains-on-higher-dividend-bets-after-earnings-surprise.html
Telefonica O2 Czech Republic AS 
shares advanced, ending a five-day decline, after third-quarter
profit beat expectations, prompting speculation the country’s
largest phone operator will increase its dividend.  The stock rose as much as 2.6 percent, its biggest intraday
gain since Nov. 3, and traded up 1.6 percent at 391 koruna as of
11:05 a.m. in Prague. It lost 5.3 percent in the previous five
sessions.  Net income rose an annual 90 percent to 6.01 billion koruna
($336 million), helped by a one-time gain after the Prague-based
company revaluated an impairment loss on its fixed-line
business, Telefonica said late yesterday. The median  estimate  of
nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News for a profit of 2.6
billion koruna. Revenue fell 8 percent to 13.8 billion koruna.  “Telefonica O2 Czech Republic would be able to pay a
dividend up to 45 koruna per share for the full-year 2010,”
 Jindrich Svatek , a Prague-based analyst at Raiffeisen Centrobank
AG, wrote in a report to clients today. “We expect a positive
market reaction on the results and potential dividend payment.”  While the one-time gain would allow the company to increase
its dividend to as much as 47 koruna, it will probably only pay
40 koruna, the same amount as from last year’s profit, analyst
 Josef Nemy  at  Komercni Banka AS  in Prague wrote in a report.
Nemy previously expected the payout to fall to 35 koruna.  Raised to ‘Overweight’  “We believe the company will retain some part of
distributable funds in order to maintain the level of 40 koruna
also a year later,” Prague-based Nemy wrote in the report.  Concorde Securities RT upgraded Telefonica O2 shares to
“overweight” from “equal weight,” it said in a report to
clients today.  The Budapest-based brokerage said the impairment-loss
reversal of 4.3 billion koruna was a “positive surprise” and
will allow the company to keep its 40 koruna payout for three
years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Krystof Chamonikolas  in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  