-- Emerging Stocks Fluctuate as Kospi Falls in Last-Minute Trading
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2010-11-11T07:53:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/emerging-market-stocks-fluctuate-as-kospi-tumbles-in-last-minute-trading.html
Emerging-market stocks fluctuated,
as a plunge in South Korea’s Kospi Index in the last minute of
trading overshadowed an upgrade of China’s credit rating by
Moody’s Investors Services.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  was little changed, falling
less than 0.1 percent to 1,147.66 as of 3:50 p.m. in Taipei. The
South Korean  benchmark index  lost 2.7 percent as the expiration
of options contracts spurred the largest-ever sales of equities
by foreign investors. China’s  Shanghai Composite Index  advanced
1 percent and Russia’s Micex index added 0.5 percent.  STX Pan Ocean Co.  led losses in South Korea, where shares
also retreated after presidents Barack Obama and Lee Myung Bak
failed to reach agreement on a free-trade accord. Agricultural
Bank of China Ltd. rose 1.1 percent.  PetroChina Co.  surged on
speculation the government will raise fuel prices.  “There was a massive foreign selloff on the expiry day
that’s presumed to have dragged down the index at the last
minute of trading,” said  Im Jeong Jae , a fund manager in Seoul
at Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management Co., which oversees $28
billion of assets.  Hyundai Development Co.  plunged 6.4 percent. STX Pan Ocean,
South Korea’s biggest bulk carrier, retreated 6.8 percent after
Korea Development Bank’s offer to sell 20.58 million of the
 company’s  shares was canceled, according to an official at the
lender and two others with direct knowledge of the matter.  Record Selling  Overseas investors sold a record net 1.34 trillion won
($1.2 billion) of shares listed on the mainboard Kospi Index
today, Korea Exchange Inc. said. The previous record was May 7,
when foreigners sold a net 1.25 trillion won of the equities,
the bourse operator said in an e-mailed statement. Korean equity
and index options expired today and markets are often volatile
on the expiration day because of a pickup in program trading.  Shanghai stocks rose after Moody’s today raised China’s
foreign and local debt rating to Aa3, the fourth highest ranking,
citing the nation’s financial strength and ability to contain
losses from a credit boom. The ratings company maintained a
positive outlook. Agricultural Bank advanced for the first time
this week in Shanghai and  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China
Ltd. , the world’s No. 1 lender by value, rose 0.6 percent.  PetroChina jumped the most since September 2008 on
speculation a rise in oil prices may prompt the government to
increase domestic fuel prices, according to  Shi Yan  at UOB-Kay
Hian Ltd. Crude hit a two-year high in New York, gaining as much
as 0.8 percent to $88.55 a barrel.  In the Philippines,  Manila Electric Co. , the nation’s
largest power retailer, sank 7.9 percent on speculation
investors will shift funds to  Aboitiz Power Corp. , which is due
to join the MSCI Philippines Index. Aboitiz rallied 6 percent.  “Manila Electric is a victim of Aboitiz Power’s addition
into the MSCI Philippines Index,” said  Alex Pomento , a Manila-
based strategist at Macquarie Group Ltd. “This revision gives
investors a cheaper alternative to play the nation’s energy
sector. It can have an impact on companies that own Manila
Electric.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Taipei at   Wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  