-- Emerging Stocks Decline as Kospi Dives in Last-Minute Trading
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2010-11-11T11:25:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/emerging-market-stocks-decline-as-kospi-index-dives-in-last-minute-trading.html
Emerging-market stocks fell for a
second day as a plunge in South Korea’s Kospi Index in the last
minute of trading overshadowed an upgrade of China’s credit
rating by Moody’s Investors Services.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  retreated 0.3 percent to
1,144.24 as of 10:41 a.m. in London. The South Korean  benchmark
index  lost 2.7 percent as the expiration of options contracts
spurred the largest-ever sales of equities by foreign investors.
The  Shanghai Composite Index  gained 1 percent and Hungary’s  BUX 
index rose 1.2 percent following yesterday’s 4.7 percent slide.  Information technology companies led declines after  Cisco
Systems Inc.  projected sales and profit that missed analysts’
estimates. Stock indexes fell by at least 1 percent in  India ,
 Thailand  and the  Philippines . Equity and index options expired
today in Korea, and markets are often volatile on the expiration
day because of a pickup in automated trading.  “There was a massive foreign sell-off on the expiry day
that’s presumed to have dragged down the index at the last
minute of trading,” said  Im Jeong Jae , a Seoul-based fund
manager at Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management Co., which
oversees $28 billion of assets.  Overseas investors sold a record net 1.34 trillion won
($1.2 billion) of shares listed on the mainboard Kospi Index
today, Korea Exchange Inc. said. The previous record was May 7,
when foreigners sold a net 1.25 trillion won of the equities,
the bourse operator said in an e-mailed statement.  Hyundai Development Co. , a South Korean builder, plunged
6.4 percent, and  STX Pan Ocean Co. , that nation’s biggest bulk
carrier, retreated 6.8 percent after Korea Development Bank’s
offer to sell 20.58 million of the  company’s  shares was
canceled, according to an official at the lender and two others
with direct knowledge of the matter.  China Upgrade  Shanghai-traded stocks rallied after Moody’s raised China’s
foreign and local debt rating to Aa3, the fourth highest
ranking, citing the nation’s financial strength and ability to
contain losses from a credit boom. The ratings company
maintained a positive outlook. Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.
advanced for the first time this week, gaining 1.1 percent, and
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , the world’s No. 1
lender by market value, rose 0.6 percent.  PetroChina  Co. jumped 7.7 percent, the most since September
2008, on speculation a rise in oil prices may prompt the
government to increase domestic fuel prices, according to  Shi Yan  at UOB-Kay Hian Ltd.  Crude hit a two-year high in New York, gaining as much as
0.8 percent to $88.55 a barrel.  Ruble, Yuan  The Russian ruble strengthened 0.2 percent to 30.5700 to
the dollar. The Taiwanese dollar appreciated 0.5 percent and the
Korean won rose 0.2 percent on speculation that gains in Asian
currencies will quicken after China allowed faster yuan
appreciation ahead of the Group of 20 nations’ summit.  The yuan advanced against the dollar for a third day,
gaining 0.12 percent to 6.6257 as G-20 nation leaders were due
to debate global currency and trade imbalances in Seoul.  Central European Media Enterprises Ltd.  shares tumbled as
much as 8.5 percent after the television broadcaster was removed
from the  MSCI Czech Republic Index  by MSCI Inc., a compiler of
benchmark indexes. That MSCI index lost 0.3 percent.  The difference between the yield investors demand on
emerging-market debt and the return on U.S. Treasuries was
unchanged at 2.41 percent, according to the  JPMorgan Chase & Co.
EMBI+ index.   To contact the reporters on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Taipei at   Wlim26@bloomberg.net 
 Jason Webb  in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  