-- Emirates CEO Urges A380 Fixes to Avoid Qantas `Contagion'
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2010-11-11T08:07:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/emirates-president-urges-a380-fixes-to-avoid-contagion-from-qantas-blowout.html
Emirates, the biggest operator of
Airbus A380s, said the engine explosion last week on  Qantas
Airlines Ltd.  is an “enormously big wake-up call” to avoid
another incident that would deter passengers from the world’s
largest passenger jet.  One of four  Rolls-Royce Group Plc  Trent 900 engines blew up
on a Qantas A380 shortly after takeoff from Singapore on Nov. 4,
forcing an emergency landing and damaging a wing. The blast
prompted Qantas to ground its fleet of A380s and two other
carriers to switch engines. Emirates powers all its fleet of 14
A380s with turbines by General Electric Co. and Pratt & Whitney.  “We’re concerned and watching very closely,” Emirates
President  Tim Clark  said yesterday in an interview in London.
“We really don’t want this aircraft tarnished with a reputation
for failures in certain areas. One thing we will not allow is a
contagion effect.”  Clark’s comments come as the  European Aviation Safety
Agency  ordered airlines to perform mandatory inspection of Trent
900 engines used on A380s at regular intervals. Emirates has
ordered 90 A380s in total as it banks on an aircraft that can
connect any two dots on the globe with a single stopover in
Dubai, where the airline is based. While  Airbus SAS  has
struggled to bolster its order book for the A380, passengers
have flocked to the jet, with its capacity for more than 500
seats and amenities including showers and closed off first-class
cabins.  Out of Action  Sydney-based Qantas, Australia’s largest airline, kept its
fleet of A380s grounded for an eighth day as it continues
inspections of the engines and probes potential oil leaks found
in three power plants. Rolls-Royce said the incident is isolated 
to the Trent 900 engine, designed specifically for the A380.
Nobody was injured in the emergency landing of the Qantas jet.  Singapore Airlines Ltd.  has 11 471-seat A380s in its fleet,
all powered by Rolls-Royce. The company said yesterday that it
planned to take three of the jets out of service for as long as
48 hours to change the engines, in a precautionary measure after
“slight” oil staining was found.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG , the
only other user of the Trent 900, replaced an engine on one jet.  “Most of the flying public isn’t even aware that there are
two types of engines available on the A380,” said  Yan Derocles ,
an aviation analyst at Paris-based Oddo Securities. “But
normally, when you have incidents or accidents, there’s an
immediate impact on bookings, but soon after occupancy rates
return to normal.”  ‘No Reason’  Airbus, which is aiding the investigation to uncover the
fault on the Qantas Trent 900 engine, is confident that Rolls-
Royce will “find and correct the problem,”  Tom Enders , Airbus
chief executive, told reporters in Berlin yesterday.  “There’s no reason not to fly on the A380,” Enders said.  The A380 has been a drag on Airbus since the aircraft
performed its maiden flight in 2005. Mismatched software between
German and French engineers led to faulty wiring, resulting in
years of delays and cost overruns. Airbus also failed to build
on its initial inflow of orders for the A380, and the program
won’t break even for several years, according to the company.  More than 70 airports are equipped to handle the double-
decker A380, which has a 262-foot (80-meter) wingspan and is 239
feet long. Emirates has begun flying the aircraft to smaller
hubs, including daily services to Jeddah, the second-largest
city in Saudi Arabia, as well as Manchester in northern England.  Public Perception  The A380, designed to tap into the lucrative long-haul
market dominated for decades by Boeing Co.’s 747 jumbo, is now
operated by five airlines. Rolls-Royce has picked up the
majority of the carriers already using the aircraft, while Air
France also opted for GE’s and Pratt’s Engine Alliance option.  How the faults on the A380s in the past week play out in
the public mind will depend on the situation unfolding further,
said  Stephen Furlong , an analyst at Davy Stockbrokers in Dublin.
Airlines’ ability to minimize disruptions and isolating the
incident to Qantas will help avoid lasting damage to the A380
brand and keep travelers opting for the jet, he said.  Emirates President Clark urged Rolls-Royce to take
“whatever remedial design action or quality gate action” to
ensure a similar blowout doesn’t occur again. He didn’t say if
the Qantas incident has affected bookings.  “And if we get lumped together then we will have to take
some kind of action,” he said. “I hope it won’t come to
that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrea Rothman  in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net 
 Steve Rothwell  in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  