-- Lend Lease Chief Seeking Retail Growth, Sees Some `Quality' Centro Assets
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2010-11-11T03:29:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/lend-lease-ceo-seeking-retail-growth-sees-some-quality-centro-assets.html
Lend Lease Group , Australia’s
largest property developer, is interested in growing its retail
property business and sees some “quality” assets in the
shopping malls  Centro Properties Group  is selling.  “We are interested in retail, and they do have some
quality assets,” Chief Executive Officer  Steve McCann  said in
an interview today after the company’s annual shareholder
meeting.  Centro, the Australian shopping-mall owner that ceded
control to creditors in 2008, said on Nov. 4 a number of parties
have approached it with expressions of interest in its entire
business and assets. The company and its managed funds, which
manage an A$18.6 billion ($18.7 billion) collection of 712
shopping centers in Australia, New Zealand and the U.S., will
start to jointly evaluate the expressions of interest, it said.  The Australian newspaper reported on Nov. 5 that Lend Lease
has  partnered  with Government of Singapore Investment Corp.,
which manages the city-state’s foreign reserves, about a
possible bid for Centro, which had A$18.4 billion of debt as of
June 30. New York-based private equity group NRDC Equity
Partners LLC is also part of the consortium, the Wall Street
Journal reported on Nov. 8, citing unnamed sources.  McCann declined to comment on the specifics of those
reports, saying “we’re not involved in the process today.”  “If they were going in a certain direction that appeals to
our investor base, we would look at it,” he said. Were such a
transaction to proceed, it would be “funded largely” through
investors in the company’s funds management business, he said.  ‘Long-Term Owner’  “We are not a long-term owner of property,” McCann said.
“We will put a consortium together on transactions and raise
capital. Our capacity to do things is far greater than our
limited balance sheet.”  Lend Lease has about A$20 billion in its development
pipeline, which it can fund through its “significant undrawn
debt,” its A$1.6 billion in cash, and through collaborations
with investors in its funds and other partners, he said.  Lend Lease has partnered with GIC on residential
developments in Australia, and “it is nothing unusual for us to
be talking to them,” McCann said.  Lend Lease will seek opportunities to partner further with
Osaka-based Sekisui House after announcing joint ventures on
projects in Melbourne, Sydney and Queensland with the Japanese
home builder, McCann said.  The Sydney-based company has also been approached by global
sovereign wealth funds and pension funds for partnerships in
Australia, he said, declining to name them.  Lend Lease shares rose 1.6 percent to A$7.08 at 2:21 p.m.
in Sydney.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nichola Saminather  in Sydney at 
 Nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  