-- Henkel Third-Quarter Report to Be Reviewed by Germany Regulator Bafin
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k   a n d   H o l g e r   E l f e s
-- 2010-11-11T15:34:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/henkel-third-quarter-report-to-be-reviewed-by-germany-regulator-bafin.html
German financial regulator Bafin
will review whether  Henkel AG  should have released its third-
quarter results in an ad hoc statement.  The regulator may also review whether the figures should
have been reported sooner, Bafin spokeswoman  Anja Engelland  said
in an interview today.  Henkel’s preferred shares yesterday rose the most in almost
two years in Frankfurt trading as the German maker of  Loctite
glues  said third-quarter profit almost doubled and raised its
earnings forecast for the third time this year. Henkel spokesman
 Wulf Klueppelholz  declined to comment today.  Net income rose to 337 million euros ($462 million) from
172 million euros a year earlier, beating the 283 million-euro
average estimate of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Henkel in January brought forward the release of its full-
year figures, which were above analysts’ estimates. The company
also reported quarterly figures ahead of schedule in 2009 when
they missed market estimates.  “It’s Bafin’s task to observes what happens on the capital
markets and DAX companies are under special scrutiny,”  Robert
Safran , a capital markets lawyer based in Frankfurt, said in an
interview. “If a company did publish reports ad hoc at some
point and changes that practice at a later stage, Bafin will
certainly pick that up and ask questions, especially if the
results move markets.”  The regulator’s review doesn’t necessarily mean anything
has been done wrongly which would lead to possible sanctions,
said Safran, who isn’t involved in the matter.  Henkel shares were little changed at 46.17 euros as of 4:17
p.m. in Frankfurt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karin Matussek  in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net 
 Holger Elfes  in Dusseldorf at 
 helfes@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net .
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 