-- Cuts by Merkel, Cameron Win Investor Plaudits in Bloomberg Poll
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 2010-11-11T05:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/merkel-cameron-win-investor-plaudits-for-budget-cutting-in-bloomberg-poll.html
Measures by German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  and British Prime Minister  David Cameron  to cut
government spending and slash debt are making them standouts in
the eyes of global investors.  Merkel, 56, is viewed favorably by 68 percent of
respondents in the latest Bloomberg Global Poll, top among a
dozen world political and economic leaders cited in the survey.
Cameron, 44, is second with a 65 percent worldwide favorability
rating in the quarterly poll of 1,030 investors and analysts
who are Bloomberg subscribers.  The leader of Britain’s Conservative Party scored even
better in Europe, where more than three-fourths of those
questioned view him favorably. Cameron, whose government raised
the sales tax and imposed a levy on banks, last month proposed
the U.K.’s biggest budget cuts since World War II, with a goal
of eliminating 490,000 jobs and wiping out a record 156
billion-pound budget deficit ($251 billion) by 2015.  Cameron “seems to be willing to streamline the U.K.
public sector and is not afraid of imposing strong cuts,” said
poll respondent  Christian Muschick , an analyst at Silvia Quandt
& Cie in Frankfurt. “Clearly this is extremely painful for
society, but in the end I would expect the U.K. to emerge
stronger than ever.”  In Germany, Merkel’s coalition passed a four-year package
of budget cuts after pushing through a constitutional change
last year requiring the German government to reduce net new
borrowing. Merkel said Nov. 4 that lower spending remains the
government’s “absolute priority” even after tax-revenue
projections for 2010 to 2012 were raised.  ‘Stern Voice’  “Fiscally it appears that she is the stern voice of
reason,” said  Michael Dombrowski , vice president at Arbor
Research & Trading Inc. in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. “She may
offend you, but she sees the facts.”  Merkel also scores highest when poll respondents were
asked to assess how the policies of eight world leaders are
affecting the investment climates in their countries.  More than six of 10 investors and analysts questioned say
they’re optimistic about Merkel’s policies. In second place is
Chinese President  Hu Jintao , whose polices are seen
optimistically by 59 percent, followed by Cameron’s 51 percent.  Lagging behind, U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s policies
were viewed with optimism by 35 percent of the investors,
followed by French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  with 30 percent
and Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  with 16 percent.  The Bloomberg Global Poll was conducted on Nov. 8 by
Selzer & Co., of Des Moines, Iowa, and has a margin of error of
plus or minus 3.1 percentage points.  ‘Appeasing the Market’  More than six in 10 investors say Cameron’s austerity
program is good for the U.K. economy, almost three times the
number who say his cuts are bad.  The proposals have “done very well in appeasing the
market and rating agencies,” said  Yassine Haddaoui , an equity
derivatives trader at Deutsche Bank AG in London. “Stricter
fiscal policy and spending cuts will definitely help reduce the
budget deficit in the U.K.”  Standard & Poor’s last month said spending cuts had
safeguarded Britain’s top credit rating, which it said is no
longer in danger of being downgraded.  Britain’s recovery is showing some signs of momentum.
Gross domestic product grew 0.8 percent in the third quarter,
twice as fast as analysts had forecast.  The Bank of England’s quarterly forecasts yesterday
suggested the recovery may weather the government’s budget
squeeze.  Unemployment Falls  In Germany,  unemployment  dropped in October to the lowest
since 1992, as the government raised its forecast for  economic
growth  to 3.4 percent, the fastest pace since 1991.  Business
confidence  in Europe’s largest economy climbed in October to
the highest level in 3½ years.  The benchmark  DAX Index  is up 12.8 percent this year,
compared with the 7.5 percent advance for the U.K.’s  FTSE 100
Index .  Merkel has declared that Germany must lead the euro area’s
deficit-cutting effort and has urged leaders of other
governments to find ways to wean their economies from stimulus
spending.  “Germany’s economic strength will help Angela Merkel to
be a step in front of all the other Europe leaders,” said
 Guilherme Koch , an asset manager at Sao Miguel Holding in Sao
Paulo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Catherine Dodge  in Washington at 
 Cdodge1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  