-- Merkel Appeals to Markets for Understanding to Soothe Investor `Conflict'
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2010-11-11T11:31:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/merkel-appeals-to-markets-for-understanding-to-soothe-investor-conflict-.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
appealed to financial markets for understanding over her push to
force investors to help pay for any future crises, acknowledging
that her stance risks stoking “conflict.”  “I ask the markets sometimes to bear politicians in mind,
too,” Merkel told a business forum in Seoul today. “Only if we
get along can we stimulate growth.”  Merkel, attending a Group of 20 summit, said that she’s
“not quite satisfied yet” with G-20 plans for reducing risks
linked to the world’s biggest, or systemic, banks. There is a
need for “creditors to be involved in the costs of
restructuring,” she said.  That call echoes her position on the need to lock in
European Union rules compelling bondholders to contribute in the
event of a euro-area sovereign default. European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  has questioned Germany’s demand,
saying it risks piling pressure on countries such as Ireland and
Portugal as they struggle to reduce their budget deficits.  Portuguese and Spanish government bonds extended their
decline today as Irish 10-year securities swung between gains
and losses after plunging for a 12th straight day yesterday. The
euro fell versus 13 of its 15 most-traded peers and approached
the lowest in more than a month against the dollar.  ‘On the Hook’  “There may be a conflict here between the interests of the
financial world and the interests of politicians,” Merkel said.
“We can’t constantly explain to our voters that taxpayers have
to be on the hook for certain risks rather than those who make a
lot of money taking those risks.”  Merkel’s language is reminiscent of the tone she adopted in
a speech in May, after enacting a unilateral ban on some types
of naked short-selling and one day before German lawmakers voted
to back the 750 billion-euro ($1 billion) euro-area rescue fund.  “People are asking, ‘What powers do you politicians still
have?’” Merkel said then.  Merkel’s coalition trails the opposition in opinion polls
before six state elections next year. The ruling parties dropped
support in May after alienating voters by supporting the bailout
for Greece and have yet to win them back.  Backing for Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union and her CSU
allies rose two percentage points to 32 percent in a weekly
Forsa poll for Stern magazine yesterday, as her Free Democratic
coalition partner rose one point to 5 percent. Coalition support
is still more than 11 points less the parties won at last year’s
election.  The opposition Social Democrats and Greens, which ruled
together from 1998 to 2005, have a combined 46 percent, down one
point on the week. That compares with less than 34 percent at
the election. Forsa polled 2,50s voters on Nov. 1-5. The margin
of error is 2.5 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Czuczka  in Seoul at  tczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  