-- Merrill’s ‘Voldemort Book’ Crushes O’Neal in Thriller on Crash
-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 2010-11-11T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/merrill-s-voldemort-book-mauls-o-neal-lewis-in-thriller-on-crash-books.html
Some Merrill Lynch & Co. traders had
a dark departmental secret: They called it the “Voldemort
Book,” says Greg Farrell in “Crash of the Titans.”  “Like the villain in the  Harry Potter  stories, the mere
mention of it was discouraged,” Farrell writes in his
exhaustive and sometimes exhausting 471-page reconstruction of
how Merrill sealed its own fate by becoming more bullish on
bonuses than on America.  The “Voldemort Book” was a portfolio of more than $30
billion in “super senior” collateral debt obligations that
Merrill accumulated on its balance sheet after investors began
shunning toxic mortgage instruments in 2007, Farrell says. The
Risk That Must Not Be Named triggered a chain of losses and
writedowns that would end Merrill’s 94 years of independence,
turn  Bank of America Corp . into a temporary ward of the state,
and wreck the careers of E. Stanley O’Neal and  Kenneth D. Lewis .  Farrell, a Financial Times reporter, says he pieced
together this fly-on-the-wall narrative from at least 250 hours
of interviews. He also drew on evidence including e-mails,
confidential papers and transcripts from internal presentations
at Merrill and Bank of America, which agreed to buy the
securities firm on the momentous September weekend when  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc . crashed.  Merrill’s downfall is often seen as a footnote to the
dramatic demise of Lehman. It was far more than that, as this
prodigious piece of reporting shows. Framed as a financial
thriller laced with ringing phones and expletives, the book
shows how a firm famous for bringing Wall Street to Main Street
lurched toward disaster while Chief Executive Officer O’Neal was
playing golf on Martha’s Vineyard.  ‘I’m Not Thick!’  Some scenes will feel like reruns for those who have read  Andrew Ross Sorkin ’s “Too Big to Fail” and  Henry M. Paulson Jr .’s “On the Brink.” We see O’Neal secretly shopping Merrill
to Bank of America CEO Lewis in an apartment overlooking  New
York ’s Central Park in September 2007. We’re reminded, too, of
how Paulson, as Treasury secretary, a year later urged O’Neal’s
successor,  John Thain , to find a buyer.  “Hank, I’m not thick! I heard you,” Thain is quoted as
telling his former boss at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc .  Other details are less familiar, notably Merrill President
Gregory J. Fleming’s role in negotiating the sale to Bank of
America for $29 a share, a 70 percent premium to the stock’s
closing value the previous Friday.  Super-Thain  Farrell is good at dissecting Thain’s misplaced optimism
and insensitivity to public opinion. By this account, the
square-jawed Clark Kent of a CEO thought the slump of 2007 would
be short-lived, and he lobbied for a $20 million cash bonus even
after the government injected a total of $25 billion into
Merrill and Bank of America in October 2008.  Yet Farrell absolves “Super-Thain” of responsibility for
the fall of Merrill: The damage was done, Farrell says, long
before Thain claimed O’Neal’s corner office (and spent $1.2
million on redecorating it).  One theme running through these pages is how Merrill and
other investment banks got into trouble by trying to match
Goldman’s profitability. Journalists have succumbed to a similar
syndrome: Sorkin envy.  In “Too Big to Fail,” Sorkin synthesized sharp anecdotes,
dialogue and multiple story lines into a seamless narrative.
Farrell’s book, though engrossing, is short on the kind of
cinematic details that make Sorkin’s account so inviting. While
Farrell maintains a fast pace for long stretches, some chapters
choke on minutia and corporate history.  Fateful Decision  Farrell traces Merrill’s downfall to O’Neal’s decision to
put a star salesman, Osman Semerci, in charge of fixed income,
currencies and commodities in July 2006. A little more than a
year later, on Oct. 3, 2007, Semerci was fired after internal
investigations concluded that the department during his tenure
had ramped up CDO production even as other investment banks were
scaling back, Farrell says.  “On Semerci’s watch, the FICC department put more than $30
billion worth of CDOs on Merrill’s balance sheet,” Farrell
says, citing a presentation made to Merrill’s board of directors
after his ouster.  Given the novelistic style of this book, it’s unclear if
Farrell sought comment from Semerci, who has denied previous
assertions about his role in Merrill’s meltdown. What is clear
is that Farrell sees Semerci as “a convenient scapegoat.”  “Not only was Semerci not a rogue trader, he was far
closer to being the model employee of the recent boom era,”
Farrell writes. “He was a product of  Wall Street ’s bonus
culture, which rewards employees according to how much revenue
they produce for their firm.”  For Farrell, the real culprit was O’Neal.  “Why did Merrill Lynch need to be saved in the first
place?” he asks. “Because O’Neal let his guys run wild in the
CDO market so they all could get bigger bonuses.”  “Crash of the Titans: Greed, Hubris, the Fall of Merrill
Lynch and the Near-Collapse of Bank of America” is from  Crown
Business  (471 pages, $27). To buy this book in  North America ,
click  here .  (James Pressley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 