-- Merrill Banker Indicted With 18 in Brazil Says He’s Scapegoat
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r   a n d   M i c h a e l   S m i t h
-- 2010-11-11T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/merrill-banker-indicted-for-illegal-transfers-of-funds-says-he-s-scapegoat.html
Just before dawn on a cool June
morning, six submachine-gun-wielding federal agents charged into
Alexandre Caiado’s Sao Paulo apartment. After arresting him,
they hustled Caiado into a pickup truck for a 30-block drive to
Merrill Lynch & Co.’s office, where he had been working as a
private banker for two years.  As the agents scoured Caiado’s desktop computer, Mary
Livingston, a lawyer for Merrill, sat down alone with Caiado.
“She gave me very specific instructions,” says Caiado,
recalling the scene in 2006. “I wasn’t supposed to say what I
really did.”  Prosecutors charged Caiado with arranging illegal fund
transfers for Merrill clients -- part of what has become a four-
year investigation into bankers helping clients secretly move
undeclared money abroad to evade Brazilian income taxes,
Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its December issue.  Federal agents put Caiado in the back of the pickup truck
for a five-hour journey to Curitiba, his hometown, where two of
his Merrill clients lived. There, police handcuffed the banker
in front of press photographers and then jailed him along with
nine others charged in  tax-evasion  schemes.  Caiado, 39, who was raised attending  country clubs  and
private schools in Curitiba, was held for five days in a
basement cell with men accused of robbery, drug dealing and
murder.  ‘They Were Emphatic’  “I kept trying to figure out what I did wrong,” says
Caiado, in his first interview ever with journalists. “It was
Merrill Lynch, one of the most respected places to work on the
planet. They were emphatic about the fact that it was OK to
transfer money abroad.”  Caiado, who wears jeans and a sports shirt with the sleeves
rolled up, says he’s a scapegoat. He says New York-based
Merrill, which  Bank of America Corp . acquired in 2009, hired him
so he could use his family contacts to gain new clients in
Curitiba, a  city  of 1.8 million people 400 kilometers (250
miles) south of Sao Paulo.  His job at Merrill was to open new accounts, manage assets
and arrange fund transfers out of Brazil, all of which his
bosses told him was legal, he says. Brazilian law prohibits such
private bankers from offering those services, federal Judge
Fausto De Sanctis says.  Caiado’s work at Merrill was part of a pattern in which
bankers helped clients move undeclared money in and out of
Brazil in ways that couldn’t be tracked by tax authorities, says
Deltan Dallagnol, a prosecutor handling Caiado’s case.  Economic Boom  The biggest banks in the world are streaming into Brazil as
an economic boom creates a new class of wealthy investors in
Latin America’s most populous country. By 2017, 675,000
Brazilians -- more than 150 a day -- will become millionaires,
compared with a negligible number in 2007, when  Barclays Plc 
researched the data.  Now, prosecutors are cracking down on income-tax dodging in
Brazil by targeting bankers who help clients hide their money
abroad.  The Brazilian investigators have focused on the role of
foreign banks -- including  Credit Suisse Group AG ,  UBS AG  and
Merrill -- that were licensed by the central bank as so-called
representative offices. Such firms are permitted to refer
clients to bankers outside the country and provide marketing
information, De Sanctis says.  The Law  The law prohibits bankers working in these offices from
opening new accounts, making trades or transferring money
abroad, the judge says. Those were exactly the activities that
Caiado says Merrill asked him to do every day.  Merrill, Credit Suisse and UBS say they follow all laws and
regulations and cooperate with any investigations.  In May of this year, Brazilian police, a prosecutor and a
judge -- having collected internal documents and e-mails from
Merrill -- concluded that Caiado was following orders from bank
executives.  “Diverse documents indicate the practice, in theory, of
crimes against the national financial system by Merrill Lynch’s
legal representatives in Brazil,” Ricardo Cubas Cesar, a
federal police supervisor in Curitiba, wrote in a May 27 report
filed in court. Caiado is cooperating with prosecutors.  Three months before Caiado was arrested, armed federal
agents raided the homes and offices of executives who worked at
Credit Suisse in the same Sao Paulo building as Merrill’s
private bank. By mid-2008, prosecutors had indicted 18 bankers
at Credit Suisse and UBS,  Switzerland ’s two largest banks, on
the same charges as Caiado.  Widespread Method  After the indictments, Credit Suisse, Merrill and UBS moved
their private bankers out of Brazil to Miami,  New York , Zurich
and Montevideo, Uruguay.  Brazilian investigators have documented a widespread method
in which banks move funds outside the formal financial system.
Bankers, including Caiado, and their clients have used doleiros,
or dollar changers, to funnel money out of the country to
accounts in Zurich, Monaco or Miami to avoid paying taxes.  Doleiros run money-exchange companies that routinely hold
hundreds of thousands of dollars in accounts outside Brazil. In
a typical transaction, a banker gives a doleiro a client’s cash.
The doleiro then transfers funds from one of his accounts
outside Brazil to the customer’s offshore holdings.  That allows the client to evade taxes because he didn’t
make a wire transfer that’s reported to the government. If a
client wants to move offshore money back to Brazil, he transfers
money to a doleiro’s account abroad, and the doleiro gives him
cash in  Brazil .  ‘Intimately Tied’  “Financial institutions are intimately tied to a huge
currency black market in Brazil,” says Sergio Fernando Moro,
the federal judge in the case against Caiado. He’s sitting in a
swivel chair in the Curitiba courthouse, peering over stacks of
blue folders with files from tax-evasion cases.  Caiado says that when he worked for Merrill, his bosses
encouraged him to transfer as much money as possible out of
Brazil to generate more fees. Federal prosecutors say they
recorded phone calls in which Caiado arranged money transfers
with doleiros.  “We all worked with undeclared money,” he says. “More
transfers meant more money coming in for Merrill.”  The case against Caiado has been inactive for two years
because of technical appeals, a legal limbo that’s common in
Brazil’s justice system. Janice Ascari, a regional federal
prosecutor in Sao Paulo, says the 19 bankers who have been
indicted will almost certainly never be imprisoned.  Avoiding Prosecution  That’s because Brazilian courts allow anyone with enough
money to avoid prosecution for any crime, she says. Defendants
can, and often do, appeal every step in a criminal case -- even
before a court finds facts or reaches a verdict.  In Brazil, criminal defendants aren’t asked to enter guilty
or not guilty pleas unless they go to trial. Prosecutors can
indict only people, not companies, for financial crimes.  There are often 20 lawyers filing as many as 40 appeals for
a case being built by one prosecutor, Ascari says.  “They use numerous types of appeals, making technical
arguments, to postpone the final decision,” she says.  In the Credit Suisse and UBS cases, the 64 bankers,
doleiros and their clients who have been indicted have used
appeals to stay out of jail and delay the court process.  In successful appeals, they have argued, for example, that
not all of the lawyers were present when a judge took testimony
and that prosecutors didn’t travel to Switzerland to depose one
defendant who had left Brazil.  Doing it For Decades  Finding ways to avoid taxes is hard-wired into Brazilian
culture. And it’s not because levies are sky-high, Ascari says.
A millionaire in Brazil is taxed at a federal rate of  27.5
percent , a smaller levy than in the U.S. and most European
countries.  Brazilian millionaires avoid taxes routinely because that’s
what their families have been doing for decades and they know
they can get away with it, Ascari says. And even if they’re
caught, they would use the weak court system to prevent
convictions or having assets seized.  Banks are fighting to win over Brazil’s new class of
millionaires, who love splurging on luxury. In Rio de Janeiro,
condominiums overlooking famed Ipanema beach sell for $12
million. Lamborghini, Maserati and Porsche dealerships line the
streets of the Jardins neighborhood in Sao Paulo.  This year, carmaker Aston Martin Lagonda Ltd. built its
first dealership in Brazil and handbag maker  LVMH Moet Hennessy
Louis Vuitton SA  opened a sixth store in the country.  $150 Billion Hidden  Brazilians have as much as $150 billion parked in foreign
accounts, according to studies by federal legislators.  “The money got there through banks or doleiros,” says
 Jose Mentor , a congressman for the ruling Workers’ Party, who is
sponsoring a bill giving amnesty to people who report hidden
income and pay taxes.  Caiado is the only Merrill employee in Brazil who has been
indicted. Nine months after his arrest, Merrill fired him.  “We’re writing to inform you that we have terminated your
work contract without just cause,” Merrill wrote to Caiado in a
letter dated March 20, 2007. The language in the letter allows
Caiado to collect severance pay.  Caiado says Merrill told him he wasn’t cut because he’d
been indicted; rather, the bank said it no longer needed his
services. He sued Merrill in Brazil on March 18, 2009, for
wrongfully firing him, seeking 30 million reais ($18 million) in
damages. The case is pending.  No Credibility  Livingston, the lawyer who was with Caiado on the day he
was arrested, says Merrill sent her and two or three other
lawyers to the office to help Caiado. She says she talked to him
as police were searching for records. She declined to confirm or
deny that she told Caiado to not tell police what he really did.  “I’m not responding to that,” she says. Asked if she
disputes Caiado’s account, she says, “I am not going to dignify
his story with an explanation.” He has no credibility because
he’s suing Merrill, she says.  Merrill spokesman  Bill Halldin  says the firm is fighting
the lawsuit.  “We are vigorously defending ourselves in that matter,”
Halldin says. No Merrill officer or director in Brazil has ever
been charged with a crime, he says. Merrill isn’t responsible
for the criminal charges against Caiado, he says. “This
individual was arrested on matters that didn’t involve any
activities related to Merrill Lynch,” Halldin says.  Federal prosecutor Dallagnol says the case against Caiado
is based on what the banker did for Merrill.  ‘Bank’s Clients’  “While a Merrill Lynch employee, Caiado was investigated
for activities he did on behalf of some of the bank’s clients,”
Dallagnol says.  Caiado says the only work he was doing when he was arrested
was for Merrill.  “I was doing what I was hired to do: bring in new clients
and handle their investments,” he says. “I had no reason to
suspect we were doing anything illegal. We were told by our
superiors that if the client was evading taxes or breaking the
law, it was their problem, not ours.”  Caiado, a slim man with short black hair, drives his Suzuki
SUV in August to the Graciosa Country Club in Curitiba, where
his family has had a membership since he was a teenager. Caiado
says he always wanted to work for an international bank,
beginning in high school, when he studied for a year at the
 Brockwood Park  boarding school in  England .  After graduating in 1993 with a business degree from
 Universidade Positivo , a private college in Curitiba, he took
postgraduate courses in finance and company law. He then started
two small investment firms.  ‘Merrill Forever’  The son of a corporate tax consultant for Arthur Andersen
LLP, Caiado says he made his first move toward being a Merrill
banker by flying to Miami to meet with executives in late 2003.
Caiado convinced Merrill to hire him by promising to recruit new
clients from hundreds of wealthy family members and friends in
Curitiba. Merrill signed him on in March 2004.  “When I got the job, I thought I was going to stay with
Merrill forever,” Caiado says.  At the time, the bank had no customers in Curitiba, a car-
manufacturing hub. The country club was one of his hunting
grounds for Merrill, Caiado says.  “I’d do a lot of events here, like wine tasting, and then
try to bring the guests to the bank,” he says.  Merrill assigned him to work with 15 other bankers in its
Sao Paulo wealth management office in the  Faria Lima  financial
district. Those Merrill bankers were prohibited by law from
opening accounts, managing assets or transferring funds outside
of Brazil, prosecutor Dallagnol says.  Internal E-Mails  Internal Merrill e-mails show that Caiado was asked by his
bosses to both open and manage accounts.  “Alex introduced $10MM in assets and has opened other
accounts that are not funded yet,” Roberto Teofilo, a private
banker at Merrill’s Miami office, wrote to bank managers in a
June 21, 2005, e-mail.  Five months after that, Mary Kauachima, Merrill’s service
manager in Sao Paulo, said in an e-mail that top private-banking
executives in Miami and Sao Paulo decided that Caiado should
manage six more accounts from Brazil. Kauachima and Teofilo
declined to comment.  The young banker first drew the attention of federal police
not because they were investigating Merrill, Dallagnol says, but
because investigators were probing possible tax evasion by two
of Caiado’s clients. In that investigation, police heard Caiado
talking about fund transfers that weren’t legal, which led to
the examination of the banker.  ‘Hastily Moved’  On March 21, 2006, as prosecutors in Curitiba zeroed in on
Caiado, police in Sao Paulo raided Credit Suisse’s offices.  “There’s evidence that Merrill hastily moved client
records out of Brazil in case of a police raid,” Moro wrote in
a May 10, 2010, order authorizing police to investigate. Bank
executives told Caiado and his colleagues not to save documents
on computers, Moro wrote.  When Merrill moved private-banking operations out of
Brazil, the bank lost track of some accounts. In a March 17,
2008, e-mail to five Merrill executives, Jay Marcus, a senior
credit official in Merrill’s wealth management unit, said that
records from Brazil were in such disarray that accounts weren’t
showing up on the bank’s computer systems.  Marcus said he couldn’t quantify Merrill’s own risk and
recommended halting trading in some types of  stock options .  “I am greatly concerned by the exposures here,” Marcus
wrote. “We have no way to monitor or avoid these situations.”  ‘Fee-Oriented’  Marcus, who is no longer with Merrill, couldn’t be reached
for comment.  Claudia Srour, who was a banker in Merrill’s Sao Paulo
office from 2002 to 2007, says the firm was more interested in
profiting than in monitoring risk.  “They were so commission- and fee-oriented at the private
bank,” Srour, 44, says. “They had no interest in risk controls
or investing in systems that would have prevented this from
happening.”  Merrill fired Srour on May 6, 2008, saying she didn’t
cooperate with an internal investigation of the losses Marcus
wrote about. She sought arbitration for wrongful dismissal
through the Washington-based  Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority  and was awarded $25,000 in compensatory damages.  She also sued Merrill in Brazilian labor court and lost.
She appealed that decision.  “We are pleased with the results so far,” Merrill’s
Halldin says of Srour’s complaints.  Credit Suisse  Bankers continued using doleiros to help clients hide money
from authorities even after prosecutors began their crackdown.  Claudine Spiero, a mother of two who says she left a job in
fashion to be a doleiro, took a phone call from Reto Buzzi, a
banker at Credit Suisse unit  Clariden Leu Ltd.  on July 25, 2007.
Buzzi said a money transfer from an offshore account hadn’t gone
through, a summary of police wiretaps says.  Buzzi and Spiero spoke in code words such as ‘lasagna’ and
‘tortellini’ to describe accounts in an attempt to avoid getting
caught. They were indicted in 2007 for illegally transferring
funds out of Brazil. Spiero, 55, is cooperating with
investigators.  “I did bad things,” Spiero says outside one of the jails
in the Sao Paulo district of Carandiru where she spent 45 days
locked up in late 2007. “But the banks knew what was going
on.”  Buzzi declined to comment. Clariden Leu spokesman Urs Fehr
declined to comment.  ‘True Criminal Organization’  De Sanctis, who has dedicated his career to trying cases
involving white-collar crime and writing  books  about it,
reviewed the indictment of Credit Suisse and UBS bankers and
doleiros and found there was enough merit to hold a trial.  “The accusation shows the existence of a true criminal
organization,” De Sanctis, 46, wrote in the Dec. 17, 2007,
decision.  After that, Credit Suisse kept its bank for wealthy
Brazilians alive. In April 2008, almost two years after the raid
on Credit Suisse, federal police arrested Credit Suisse banker
Christian Peter Weiss as he managed client accounts from rooms
in the Caesar Park Hotel in Rio and the Sao Paulo Grand Hyatt.  Police found Weiss had a piece of paper with details of
investigations of Credit Suisse and phrases that prosecutors say
were to be used if caught by police, scribbled in English: “I
am traveling on business,’ the document says. “I am an employee
of Credit Suisse. My business purpose is marketing.”  ‘Disrespect for Authorities’  De Sanctis wrote that the notes showed Weiss was prepared
to cover up his illegal activities. “They show true disrespect
for Brazilian authorities,” he wrote.  Weiss, who lives in Zurich and now works there for Credit
Suisse, declined to comment. Credit Suisse spokesman David Walker says his firm has strict ethics standards and follows all
regulations and laws. So far, there are just charges and no
court verdicts, he says.  “We believe the allegations against Credit Suisse and its
employees are completely without merit and we will continue to
defend ourselves vigorously,” he says.  UBS spokesman Dominique Gerster says the bank doesn’t
comment on active investigations.  “After an official inquiry was launched in 2007, UBS
reviewed and optimized its internal control mechanisms,” he
says. “Personnel-related measures were also taken. UBS is fully
committed to complying with laws and regulations.”  Seeking New Clients  Even as Credit Suisse, Merrill and UBS track the
investigations and indictments of bankers, those same firms are
competing to lure the country’s new millionaires as banking
clients -- legally. Still,  federal police  suspect that some
banks may be using more-sophisticated schemes to move undeclared
money to and from Brazil, Sao Paulo prosecutor Karen Kahn says.  Caiado says that Merrill humiliated him and that he’s been
consumed by anger and resentment toward the bank he once so
trusted.  He says he still has nightmares about sitting in a jail
cell for five days with his knees bent tight, without enough
room to lie down. The air was rancid; a hole in the floor served
as a toilet. Caiado says he was so afraid of being attacked by
cellmates that he couldn’t sleep.  “I was emotionally and physically destroyed,” he says.
Caiado says he feels betrayed by Merrill. “I want them to pay
for what they did,” he says.  With Brazil’s weak system of justice, that’s not likely to
happen. However tough the prosecutors’ crackdowns may be, the
cost to bankers of successfully fighting criminal charges will
be dwarfed by the profit banks stand to reap by catering to the
Brazilian millionaires being created every day.  Editor: Jonathan Neumann, David Ellis  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Ragir in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net .
Michael Smith in Santiago at 
 Mssmith@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Neumann at 
 jneumann2@bloomberg.net  