-- Estonian GDP Grows at Fastest Pace in Almost Three Years on Rising Exports
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2010-11-11T13:38:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/estonian-gdp-grows-at-fastest-pace-in-almost-three-years-on-rising-exports.html
Estonia’s economy, which exited the
European Union’s second-deepest recession last year, grew at the
fastest annual pace in almost three years in the third quarter
as an export-led recovery boosted industrial output.  Gross domestic product  expanded an annual 4.7 percent, the
most since the fourth quarter of 2007, compared with 3.1 percent
in the previous quarter, the statistics office in Tallinn said
 today.  The median estimate of seven analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg was 4 percent. GDP grew a seasonally adjusted 0.5
percent from the previous three months, after a 1.9 percent
second-quarter expansion.  “Estonia’s export markets, the Nordic economies, are
growing at a rapid pace, thereby giving strong support to the
economy,” said  Violeta Klyviene , an economist with Danske Bank
A/S in Vilnius, in an e-mail. “Still, we cannot yet say whether
this alone will be enough to achieve a sustainable growth level.
It is clear that domestic demand is having trouble recovering.”  Estonia’s $19 billion economy has benefited from renewed
demand for its electronics and machinery among the country’s key
Nordic trade partners. Exports jumped 40 percent from a year
earlier in September, the biggest increase in almost two years.
The central bank and Finance Ministry said growth in coming
quarters will depend on how domestic demand recovers.  Stimulus Measures  The one-time effect from Europe-wide stimulus measures and
from inventory buildup by Estonian companies “is fading,” the
central bank said in the statement. “Therefore, near-term
economic developments depend on a recovery in private
consumption and investments.”  Private consumption is recovering and companies have more
incentive to invest as production capacity is becoming fully
utilized, suggesting domestic demand will increase, the Finance
Ministry said.  The gross value added by industry increased 14 percent in
the quarter, led by manufacturing, wholesale and retail trade
and transport, the statistics office said today. The value added
by households, non-profit institutions and the general
government sector decreased.  Rising inventories contributed 8.1 percentage points to
annual GDP growth in the second quarter, the biggest
contribution on record.  Euro Adoption  Estonia will on Jan. 1 become the third east European
nation to adopt the euro, following Slovenia and Slovakia into
the currency union. Government raised VAT, alcohol and fuel
taxes and cut budget spending to keep fiscal deficit below the
EU’s 3 percent threshold last year, a key obstacle to euro
entry, further denting domestic demand that started declining in
2008 as a property bubble burst.  Estonia’s central bank expects economic growth of 2.5
percent this year and 4.2 percent in 2011 as investment and
spending recover after the recession. Danske may raise its full-
year growth forecast to 2.1 percent from 1.8 percent, said
Klyviene.  GDP shrank 5.1 percent in 2008 and 13.9 percent in 2009,
the biggest contraction in the EU behind neighboring Latvia.  Latvia’s GDP grew an annual 2.7 percent in the third
quarter, its first annual expansion in more than two years, the
nation’s statistics office reported Nov. 9. Lithuania’s growth
slowed to an annual 0.6 percent in the quarter on declines in
agriculture and construction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ott Ummelas  in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  