-- MetLife Halts Sale of New Long-Term Care Insurance
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s   a n d   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2010-11-11T21:25:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/metlife-halts-sale-of-long-term-care-insurance-after-review.html
MetLife Inc. , the largest U.S. life
insurer, will halt the sale of new long-term care coverage after
citing “financial challenges” in the business.  MetLife, led by Chief Executive Officer  Robert Henrikson ,
is focusing on growth in Asia after buying a business from
American International Group Inc. this month for $16.2 billion.
Insurers including  CNO Financial Group Inc.  have been burned by
policies sold in the past when they underestimated the number of
claims, the cost of care and life expectancies of their clients.  “The financial challenges facing the long-term care
industry in the current environment are well known,” Jodi
Anatole, a vice president for MetLife, said today in a
statement.  Long-term care policies provide coverage to help pay for
home-health aides or residence in a nursing home or assisted-
living facility. New York-based MetLife will accept applications
for new coverage through Dec. 30 and continue to honor
previously written contracts after that date, the company said.  The cost of assisted living has climbed at an annual rate
of 6.7 percent over the past five years and the price for a
private room in a nursing home jumped 4.5 percent annually over
that span, according to a report in April from  Genworth
Financial Inc. , which also sells the coverage.  Business Goals  More than 10 million Americans need long-term medical
services and support and that number is projected to rise as the
U.S. population ages, according to an October 2009  report  by the
Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation. Medicaid helps cover such
long-term care expenses for low-income Americans while Medicare
covers only short-term nursing and home health services,
according to Kaiser.  Premiums on long-term care coverage were $10.6 billion last
year, and protect about 7.1 million people, according to Limra.
Sales from new individual policies dropped 32 percent from 2005
to $464 million in 2009, the trade group said in a report.  “This is a market that is challenged even in the best of
times,” said  Catherine Theroux , a Limra spokeswoman, of
pressure on sales due to the economy. “It’s an expensive
product and it’s not something people want to talk about.”  Manulife Financial Corp.’s John Hancock unit,  Prudential
Financial Inc.  and Genworth are also among the top 10 sellers of
the coverage, according to Limra. MetLife is reviewing ways to
address the long-term care financing of clients and its business
goals, the insurer said.  ‘Some Options’  “People have discussed combining long-term care coverage
with life insurance or with annuities,” said  Karen Eldred , a
spokeswoman for the firm. “Those are some options we continue
to explore.”  MetLife dropped 79 cents, or 1.9 percent, to $40.13 at 4
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The firm has
gained 14 percent this year, compared with the 17 percent
advance in the 24-company  KBW Insurance Index .  The insurer has about 600,000 long-term care customers
among its 90 million customers worldwide, Eldred said. The long-
term care coverage is part of MetLife’s non-medical health
business, which generated about $6.1 billion in revenue in 2008,
according to a slide in MetLife’s annual  presentation  to
investors in December. The company’s total revenue was more than
$50 billion in 2008.  The slide touted MetLife’s top ranking in group life sales
and No. 2 position in group dental and disability without making
reference to long-term care.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Collins  in New York at 
 Mcollins45@bloomberg.net ;
 Natalie Doss  in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  