-- Euro Falls to Six-Week Low Versus Dollar on Europe Slowdown, Debt Concerns
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2010-11-12T08:29:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/euro-trades-near-five-week-low-against-dollar-on-slowdown-debt-concerns.html
The euro dropped to a six-week low
against the dollar as reports showing the region’s biggest
economies are slowing fueled concern countries will struggle to
raise the revenue needed to plug budget deficits.  The yen rose against its 16 most-actively traded peers
after Japanese Economy Minister  Banri Kaieda  said the country
can’t combat gains in its currency alone, easing concern that
the Bank of Japan will intervene in the foreign-exchange market.
The 16-nation euro was set for its biggest weekly loss since
August as data showed the French and German economies slowed.
The Swiss franc climbed to its strongest level since Sept. 28.  “There’s a lot of euro weakness because of the debt
crisis,” said  Ulrich Leuchtmann , Frankfurt-based head of
currency strategy at Commerzbank AG. “There is a chance the BOJ
might go back in if dollar-yen drops too quickly, but even if
they do so, I don’t think the market believes they will be
successful in the long run.”  The euro fell to $1.3606 as of 8:11 a.m. in London from
$1.3667 in New York yesterday. It earlier slid to $1.3574, the
weakest since Sept. 30. Europe’s currency lost 3 percent this
week against the greenback, the biggest drop since the period
ended Aug. 13. It declined to 111.35 yen from 112.73 yen. It
slumped earlier to its weakest level since Sept. 16.  The yen rose to 81.78 per dollar from 82.49, cutting its
decline this week to 0.6 percent.  Economic Slowdown  France’s gross domestic product rose 0.4 percent in the
three months through September, down from the 0.7 percent gain
in the previous quarter, Paris-based statistics office Insee
said today. GDP growth in Germany, Europe’s biggest economy,
slipped to 0.7 percent in the third quarter from 2.3 percent in
the second, the government reported.  The economy in the 16-nation euro area grew 0.5 percent in
the third quarter, after expanding 1 percent in the previous
three months, according to a Bloomberg News survey of
economists. The European Union’s statistics office will release
the data today.  Ireland’s bonds have plunged amid concern the country will
need to seek European Union aid to bail out its banks. The  extra
yield  investors demand to hold Irish 10-year notes over
comparable German bunds surged to a record yesterday, a day
after bond clearing house LCH Clearnet Ltd. demanded clients
place larger deposits when trading the nation’s debt.  European finance ministers attending the Group of 20
leaders’ meeting in Seoul said plans to establish a new crisis
resolution mechanism, including the potential for bondholders to
be held accountable, will not apply to outstanding debt.  “Any new mechanism would only come into effect after mid-
2013 with no impact whatsoever on the current arrangements,”
the finance ministers of Germany, France, Italy, Spain and the
U.K. said in a statement distributed to reporters.  ‘Prove Resilient’  The  Dollar Index , which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners, rose for a sixth
day, the longest winning streak since June, to trade at 78.305.  The dollar is still headed for a second weekly gain versus
the yen ahead of data that economists said will show U.S.
consumer sentiment improved this month.  The Reuters/University of Michigan final index of U.S.
consumer sentiment rose to 69 this month from 67.7 in October,
according to a separate Bloomberg survey before today’s report.  “As the U.S. and other economies prove resilient, we are
unlikely to see things deteriorate a lot and require additional
monetary easing measures,” said  Hiroshi Watanabe , a senior
economist in Tokyo at the Daiwa Institute of Research, a unit of
Japan’s second-biggest brokerage. “The bias is to reduce
dollar-short positions.” A short position is a bet an asset
will decline.  G-20 leaders today endorsed gradual changes in exchange
values and agreed to develop early-warning indicators to monitor
policies that exacerbate trade imbalances.  Speaking in a pre-recorded television program with
broadcaster BS11, Japan’s Kaieda said he wants the Bank of Japan
to do what it can to spur growth. He also said the government
needs to show investors that it is committed to preventing bond
values from declining.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  