-- Euro Drops to 1-Month Low Versus Dollar on European Sovereign-Debt Concern
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2010-11-11T22:11:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/euro-drops-on-bets-slowing-growth-in-periphery-to-derail-deficit-reduction.html
The euro slid to the lowest level in
more than a month versus the dollar as concern that some
European countries will have difficulty paying their debt and a
drop in stocks curbed investors’ appetite for risk.  The Dollar Index advanced for a fifth day, matching a
stretch of gains in August. The euro fell versus 14 of its 16
most-traded counterparts as France backed German calls for
investors to share the cost of restructuring sovereign debt.
Group of 20 leaders meet tomorrow to tackle foreign-exchange and
trade imbalances for a second day at a summit in Seoul.  “There’s risk-off on the table; equities are contributing
to it,” said  Jessica Hoversen , a Chicago-based analyst at the
futures broker MF Global Holdings Ltd. “The problems in
Europe’s periphery have come under greater scrutiny.”  The 16-nation currency dropped 0.8 percent to $1.3667 at 5
p.m. in New York, from $1.3783 yesterday. It touched $1.3638,
its weakest level since Oct. 5. The euro weakened 0.6 percent to
112.73 yen, from 113.41 yesterday. The dollar rose 0.3 percent
to 82.49 yen, from 82.28.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  dropped 0.4 percent, while
the MSCI World Index declined as much as 0.7 percent. Shares of
the Bank of Ireland, the largest Irish bank, tumbled for a
second day, losing 7.9 percent.  The Canadian dollar fell from a six-month high versus the
dollar as equities slumped. The loonie, as the currency is
nicknamed, slipped 0.2 percent to C$1.0033 per U.S. dollar after
earlier touching 99.78 cents, the strongest since April 26.  Record Premium  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Irish 10-year debt
over comparable German bunds surged to a record 652 basis
points, or 6.52 percentage points, a day after bond clearing
house LCH Clearnet Ltd. demanded clients place larger deposits
when trading the nation’s debt.  French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  offered France’s
most explicit backing of German proposals to make bondholders
contribute in sovereign bailouts.  “All stakeholders must participate in the gains and losses
of any particular situation” as a “point of principle,”
Lagarde said during an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “On
the Move” with  Francine Lacqua .  European Union members are checking whether Ireland needs
financial aid from a 750 billion-euro ($1 trillion) rescue fund,
the German business newspaper Handelsblatt said today, citing
government officials it didn’t identify. Ireland hasn’t yet
requested aid, the report said.  Spanish Economy Stalls  Spain’s third-quarter  gross domestic product  was unchanged
from the previous three months after two quarters of growth,
state  statistics  showed, as the nation implements the deepest
austerity measures in three decades.  Europe’s common currency has lost 1.9 percent in the past
week in a measure of 10 developed-nation counterparts, Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes show.  The Swedish krona fell the most among its 16 major
counterparts as investors shunned risk, dropping 1.5 percent to
6.8346 per dollar. The currency has declined since the Riksbank
said Oct. 26 it will need to raise interest rates less than
previously indicated because of a weaker global outlook and low
borrowing costs abroad.  Brazil’s real dropped for a fifth day versus the greenback,
the longest stretch since May, after Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  reiterated to reporters in Seoul for the G-20 summit
that the government may take further steps to slow the
currency’s advance.  Brazilian Tax  The real weakened 0.5 percent to 1.7157 per dollar, from
1.7079 yesterday. It has gained 23 percent since the end of
2008. The government tripled a tax on foreigners’ fixed-income
purchases last month to slow the currency’s rally.  Emerging-market currencies such as the real, South Korea’s
won and Mexico’s peso will reverse earlier advances and fall
through year-end as European sovereign-debt issues curb risk
appetite,  Win Thin , a senior currency strategist Brown Brothers
Harriman & Co. in New York, wrote in a note to clients today.
Investors should take profit on gains in the currencies, which
are likely to resume their rallies in 2011, he wrote.  The pound rose to a seven-week high against the euro,
boosted by speculation the Bank of England won’t extend its
bond-purchase program. Sterling gained 0.9 percent to 84.77
pence per euro, after reaching 84.56 pence, the strongest level
since Sept. 21. It was little changed at $1.6123.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s  Dollar Index , which tracks
the currency against those of six major U.S. trading partners
including the euro, rose 0.6 percent to 78.125 and touched
78.287, the highest level since Oct. 20.  Fed Purchases  The dollar has gained 3.3 percent versus the euro since
Nov. 3, when the Federal Reserve announced it would buy an
additional $600 million in U.S. bonds through June. The program,
known as quantitative easing, could debase the currency.  “Given the well-anticipated nature of the Fed’s move, and
the modest improvement in some U.S. economic indicators
following the summer soft patch, we think the U.S. dollar can
absorb the initial effects of expanded Fed quantitative easing
with limited damage,”  David Bloom , global head of currency
strategy at HSBC Holdings Plc in London, wrote in a report.  U.S. payrolls increased by 151,000 jobs in October, more
than double the forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists, the Labor Department reported on Nov. 5.  G-20 talks floundered as China rejected policy
prescriptions that fault its exchange-rate regime and directed
criticism at quantitative easing by the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  