-- Most European Stocks Fall on Debt Concern; Banks, Alcatel Slide
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2010-11-11T17:11:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/european-index-futures-advance-shares-of-siemens-bt-rio-tinto-may-gain.html
Most  European stocks  fell on concern
that some of the region’s most indebted nations will be forced
to restructure their finances and as technology shares dropped
after Cisco Systems Inc.’s forecasts missed estimates.  Bank of Ireland Plc paced a decline in banks, falling 7.9
percent. Alcatel-Lucent SA sank 2.8 percent, leading technology
shares lower. Allianz SE, Europe’s biggest insurer, retreated as
regulators were said to be considering tighter rules for the
industry. Mining companies rallied after copper surged and
Moody’s Investors Service raised China’s debt rating.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  was little changed at 271.39 at
the 4:30 p.m. close in London, as three stocks fell for each one
that advanced. The gauge tumbled 15 percent from April 15 to May
25 amid concern that efforts by indebted European governments to
reduce their deficits may derail the economic recovery. The
measure has since rallied 17 percent.  Government debt “is an issue that is not going to go away
very quickly,”  Yianos Kontopoulos , Athens-based chief
investment officer at EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA, said on
Bloomberg Television’s ‘On the Move’ with Francine Lacqua. “It
will take in essence very strict fiscal policy from all parties
involved in the process. It is not going to look very nice.”  Government bonds declined in Ireland, Portugal and Spain as
French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  yesterday said that
investors must share in the cost of safeguarding sovereign debt.  Benchmark Indexes  National benchmark stock indexes fell in 14 of the 18
western European markets. Ireland’s  ISEQ  dropped 1.6 percent,
extending yesterday’s 2.2 percent slide. Portugal’s PSI-20 sank
1.5 percent and Greece’s ASE lost 1.1 percent.  Bank of Ireland plunged 7.9 percent to 38.4 euro cents
while National Bank of Greece SA, the nation’s largest lender,
dropped 3.2 percent to 7.25 euros.  The cost of insuring the bonds of Irish banks has soared to
distressed levels amid concern that the government won’t be able
to afford the cost of bailing out the nation’s banks. Irish and
international banks’ loan losses in the country may total least
85 billion euros ($117 billion), central bank Governor  Patrick Honohan  said in a speech in Dublin yesterday.  Alcatel-Lucent, France’s largest telecommunications-
equipment maker, dropped 2.8 percent to 2.21 euros, dragging a
measure of technology companies 1 percent lower.  Cisco Sinks  Cisco, the world’s largest maker of computer networking
equipment, plunged 15 percent in New York trading after saying
revenue in the fiscal second quarter will be about $10.1 billion
to $10.3 billion, while earnings, excluding some costs, will be
35 cents a share at most. Analysts projected sales of $11.1
billion and profit of 42 cents on average, according to
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  United Internet AG tumbled 9.2 percent to 11.78 euros after
reporting an 8.3 percent drop in nine-month pretax profit.
STMicroelectronics NV, Europe’s largest semiconductor maker,
lost 3.1 percent to 6.33 euros in Milan.  Telefonica SA  slipped 1.6 percent to 18 euros after
Europe’s second-largest phone company reported third-quarter net
income of 5.06 billion euros. That trailed the average analyst
estimate of 5.45 billion euros from a Bloomberg survey.  Allianz fell 1.2 percent to 89.09 euros as a measure of
insurance stocks posted the second-biggest decline among 19
 industry groups  in the Stoxx 600. Aviva Plc, the U.K.’s second-
largest insurer slid 3.2 percent to 403.1 pence.  Insurance Regulation  The Financial Stability Board and the Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision are considering including insurers in
measures to safeguard the world economy from crises at so-called
systemically important financial institutions, two people close
to the discussions said.  Assicurazioni Generali SpA declined 2.6 percent to 15.49
euros after Europe’s third-biggest insurer reported third-
quarter net income that trailed analyst estimates.  ICAP Plc  slid 4.1 percent to 473.6 pence after Credit
Suisse Group AG lowered its recommendation for the world’s
biggest interdealer broker to “neutral” from “outperform”
before the company reports earnings next week.  Cookson Group Plc sank 5.8 percent to 530.5 pence as the
world’s biggest maker of ceramic linings for metal smelters
declined to give a fourth upgrade of its outlook this year.  A gauge of mining companies surged to a two-year high as
copper climbed for the fifth time in six days in London.
Antofagasta Plc, owner of copper mines in Chile, rallied 4.8
percent to 1,472 pence, Kazakhmys Plc, Kazakhstan’s biggest
copper producer, gained 3.8 percent to 1,551 pence and Xstrata
Plc increased 3.7 percent to 1,419 pence.  Copper Climbs  Copper advanced after China’s inflation reached a two-year
high, prompting investors to buy commodities as a hedge against
rising consumer prices. Moody’s also raised China’s foreign and
local debt rating to Aa3, the fourth-highest ranking, citing the
nation’s financial strength and ability to contain losses from a
credit boom.  Separately, BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research increased
its recommendation for eight mining companies including
Kazakhmys, Antofagasta and  Xstrata  to “buy,” citing “a very
bullish outlook” for commodities.  Siemens AG  climbed 2.6 percent to 85.34 euros, the highest
level since March 2008. Europe’s largest engineering company
announced plans to boost its dividend to 2.70 euros a share for
2010, more than analysts had predicted, after resurging economic
growth bolstered manufacturing.  BT Group Plc surged 6.1 percent to 169.1 pence for the
biggest gain in the Stoxx 600. The U.K.’s largest fixed-line
phone company raised its full-year forecast after second-quarter
operating profit rose 2.6 percent on lower costs and more high-
speed broadband clients.  About 61 percent of the companies in the  Stoxx 600  that
have announced results since Oct. 7 have topped estimates for
per-share income, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Jones  in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 