-- Euroclear Russia Link May Generate `Wave' of Ruble Demand, Citigroup Says
-- B y   E m m a   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2010-11-11T08:06:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/euroclear-russia-link-may-generate-wave-of-ruble-demand-citigroup-says.html
Russian federal debt being traded on
international platforms such as Euroclear would spur a “wave of
demand” for the  ruble  as foreign investors gain access to the
bonds, Citigroup Inc. said.  Euroclear Bank SA, which runs the world’s largest system
for settling bonds, will begin a study on establishing a link
with the Russian market in the next few weeks that could allow
investors to buy and sell domestic notes without the need for a
local trading account, according to Bart Wauters, the Brussels-
based company’s Russia director. Foreigners would then be able
to more easily buy the government ruble-denominated debt known
as OFZs, Wauters said in a Nov. 2 interview.  “Penetration of real money accounts in the Russian OFZ
markets is still tiny,”  Luis Costa , an emerging-markets credit
strategist for Citigroup in London said by e-mail today. “The
currency spillover can be huge in the ruble as it creates a new
wave of demand for the currency.”  Opening access to the ruble debt of Russian companies
currently not settled by Euroclear or Clearstream International
SA, which together process the bulk of the world’s Eurobonds,
would also bolster the currency, Costa said.  “One has to be long ruble,” he said, referring to
positions traders place on a security when they expect it to
strengthen.  The ruble climbed to a 2 1/2-week high against the dollar
today, adding as much as 0.6 percent to 30.4675 in Moscow
trading. It also strengthened versus the euro, gaining as much
as 0.5 percent to 42.0550, the strongest since Oct. 13. OFZs due
2016 fell, pushing the yield up 3 basis points to 7.22 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma O’Brien  in Moscow at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 