-- Hewlett-Packard to Pay $16.3 Million to Settle Probe
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2010-11-11T01:59:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/hewlett-packard-to-pay-16-3-million-to-settle-u-s-school-contracts-probe.html
Hewlett-Packard Co., the world’s
largest computer maker, agreed to pay $16.25 million to settle a
government investigation of fraud in a program that funds
Internet connections in schools and libraries, the Justice
Department said.  The Justice Department and Federal Communications
Commission, acting on tips from whistle blowers, investigated
claims that contractors, working with HP and other companies,
gave gifts to school districts in Dallas and Houston to win
contracts that included $17 million in HP equipment for the E-
rate program, the Justice Department said in an e-mailed
statement. The FCC’s  E-Rate program  funds Internet connections
for schools and libraries.  “HP requires that all employees and partners adhere to
lawful and ethical business practices,” John McCool, an outside
spokesman for Palo Alto, California-based HP, said in an e-
mailed statement.  “The activities at the center of this investigation
occurred more than five years ago, the partner relationships
have been terminated and the employees involved are no longer
with the company,” McCool said. “HP fully cooperated with the
authorities and the matter is now resolved.”  The improper gifts included meals and entertainment,
including trips on a yacht and tickets to the 2004 Super Bowl,
the Justice Department said.  HP will pay the government $16.25 million, most of which
will be returned to the E-rate program, according to the Justice
Department’s statement. The FCC will enforce the agreement to
ensure HP doesn’t violate the rules again, the government said.  The settlement demonstrates the agencies’ efforts to
“protect the E-rate program from waste, fraud, and abuse, and
to deter misconduct in the future,” FCC Chairman  Julius Genachowski  said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joel Rosenblatt  in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 