-- Ex-Morgan Stanley Oil Chief Denied $30 Million in Finra Ruling
-- B y   N i s h a d   M a j m u d a r
-- 2010-11-11T20:04:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/ex-morgan-stanley-oil-chief-refvik-denied-30-million-in-finra-arbitration.html
Morgan Stanley’s  former oil-trading
chief,  Olav Refvik , lost a demand for $30 million after accusing
the firm of “wrongful termination” and other mistreatment,
according to a ruling by industry arbitrators.  Refvik, who left the firm in 2008, had also made claims
including breach of implied contract, unjust enrichment and
improper forfeiture of vested stock and options, according to
the Oct. 27 ruling released by the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority. The ruling doesn’t provide details on the allegations
or the rationale for the arbitrators’ decision.  Refvik left the bank and the board of TransMontaigne
Partners LP, an oil transportation and storage company owned by
Morgan Stanley, the unit said in October 2008, about three
months after the bank gave his responsibilities to a colleague.
He filed a claim in March 2009, the ruling shows.  “We’re obviously very pleased with the ruling,” said Mark
Lake, a spokesman for New York-based Morgan Stanley, declining
to elaborate on the dispute. The bank is the sixth largest in
the U.S. by assets.  Refvik didn’t return phone calls and e-mails seeking
comment. He retired from Morgan Stanley after 18 years at the
firm, according to his  biography  on the website of Arrowhawk
Capital Partners, a Darien, Connecticut-based hedge-fund manager
that he helped found. He joined Noble Group Ltd. this year as
global head of oil and oil-products trading, energy-news website
SparkSpread reported in September.  Calls also weren’t returned from two lawyers listed by
Finra as representing him,  Jeffrey Liddle  and Christine Palmieri
of New York-based Liddle & Robinson LLP.  Finra regulates brokerages in the U.S. and arranges
arbitration panels for disputes between firms, brokers and their
customers. The ruling shows that two panelists concurred, and a
third dissented in part, saying he would have granted Refvik
“some relief” for undelivered stock and options. The panel
conducted 27 hearings between December 2009 and September this
year, according to the ruling.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nishad Majmudar  in New York at 
 nmajmudar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  