-- Mexico Would Consider Action to Curb Peso Gains on Fed Plan, Carstens Says
-- B y   J e n s   E r i k   G o u l d   a n d   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2010-11-11T02:10:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/mexico-would-consider-action-to-curb-peso-gains-on-fed-plan-carstens-says.html
Mexico Central bank Governor  Agustin Carstens  said he would consider cutting interest rates or
selling more dollar options if the Federal Reserve’s debt-buying
plan to aid the U.S. economy leads to excessive capital inflows.  Carstens, speaking in an interview at the Bloomberg
 Economic Summit  in Mexico City today, said policy makers will be
“very patient” before taking any action. He said they would
coordinate any currency measures with the finance ministry to
avoid sending the “wrong signal” to investors.  “We would consider adjusting our rates,” Carstens said in
an interview following his presentation at the summit. “We want
the bank to be consistent and avoid jumping the gun
prematurely.”  Yields on Mexican government bonds have declined to
“extraordinarily” low levels, partly due to increased foreign
investment in the domestic market, Carstens said. Before taking
any action, policy makers in Latin America’s second-biggest
economy must determine whether the decline in yields is
temporary, he said.  Foreign investment in short-term Mexican notes known as
Cetes has risen more than six-fold since the end of 2009 as
investors looked for alternatives to near-zero interest rates in
the U.S. and Europe. Inflows almost doubled last month to 70.4
billion pesos ($5.78 billion).  The yield on Mexico’s benchmark 10 percent bond due in 2024
has fallen 175 basis points, or 1.75 percentage points, this
year to 6.52 percent yesterday.  Dollar Auctions  Mexico’s benchmark rate has been held at 4.5 percent since
July 2009.  In addition to a possible rate cut, one tool at the central
bank’s disposal is to increase the amount of dollar options it
sells monthly to curb gains by the peso, Carstens said.  The peso has rallied 1.8 percent this month, the best-
performing Latin American currency over that period. The
currency has strengthened 7 percent this year, the most after
the Colombian peso’s 10.3 percent gain. A stronger currency
hurts exporters by making their goods more expensive in dollar
terms.  Mexico’s economy, which the central bank forecasts will
grow 5 percent this year on the back of exports including autos,
may get a boost when consumer spending rebounds. The country is
recovering from last year’s 6.5 percent contraction, the
steepest since the 1930s.  Taxing Foreign Capital  Inflation, while quickening to 4 percent in October, is
below the bank’s forecasts, and policy makers have said the
economy remains vulnerable to the slowdown in the U.S., which
buys 80 percent of Mexico’s exports.  A rate cut would set Mexico apart from Brazil, Chile and
Peru, where policy makers raised rates after the global
financial crisis ended. In Colombia, economists at Banco Popular
SA and Interbolsa SA have speculated the central bank may reduce
its rate from 3 percent after consumer prices fell in October.  The Federal Reserve agreed last week to buy an additional
$600 billion of Treasuries through June to help boost economic
growth.  Carstens said Mexico would benefit if the Fed’s decision
to purchase $600 billion in Treasuries succeeds in boosting
U.S. economic growth. Mexico sends 80 percent of its exports to
the U.S.  “It’s an understandable measure, and up to some point even
desirable,” he said today. “If I were in Ben Bernanke’s shoes
I would do the same.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jens Erik Gould  in Mexico City at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  