-- Mexican Builder OHL Falls After Raising $797 Million in Record Stock Sale
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 2010-11-11T21:24:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/mexican-builder-ohl-raises-797-million-for-highway-projects-in-record-ipo.html
OHL Mexico SAB, a unit of Spanish
construction company  Obrascon Huarte Lain SA , declined in its
first trading day after raising 9.7 billion pesos ($797 million)
in Mexico’s biggest initial public offering.  The shares fell 4 percent to 24 pesos at 4:00 p.m. New York
time in Mexico City trading. The IPC index of 35 stocks declined
0.3 percent.  The company’s backlog of projects, including development at
an airport in the central Mexican city of Toluca, may delay
earnings growth, said Sergio Molina, an analyst with ING Groep
NV’s Mexican pension fund.  “The shares will take a while to climb,” Molina said in a
telephone interview from Mexico City. “There are many people
who try to get out if they don’t see the upside in the first
minutes of the listing. This is a long-term investment.”  OHL issued 368.2 million new shares and other stakeholders
sold 21.2 million existing shares at 25 pesos each, at the lower
end of the 24 to 30 pesos planned range, the company said in a
filing to the Mexican stock exchange. The IPO surpassed brewer
 Grupo Modelo SAB ’s $578 million sale in 1994.  OHL said it may offer 58.4 million shares in an
overallotment to raise an additional 1.46 billion pesos.  “It was at the lower end of the price range, probably
because of lack of demand,” said  Jorge Lagunas , who manages
about $200 million at Mexico City-based Grupo Financiero
Interacciones SA, in a telephone interview today.  Previous Plans  Last month, the company cut the planned size of the initial
public offering by 19 percent, according to filings with
Mexico’s stock exchange. The company originally planned to raise
as much as 16.6 billion pesos.  OHL is Mexico’s fifth initial share sale since April, after
supermarket operator  Grupo Comercial Chedraui SA  and gymnasium
company Grupo Sports World SAB ended a two-year drought. Mexico
will have at least 10 IPOs in 2011, said  Guillermo Babatz ,
president of the National Banking and Securities Commission, the
local securities regulator.  Mexico will have one more IPO this year, said  Pedro Zorrilla , chief operating officer of Bolsa Mexicana de Valores
SAB, at the Bloomberg Economic Summit in Mexico City yesterday.
Zorrilla said companies may raise as much as 20 billion pesos
through initial offerings this year.  Companies including OHL and competitor Empresas ICA SAB,
the industry’s biggest, are competing for as much as $14.5
billion in government contracts, the government said.  ‘Renewed Life’  OHL began operating in Mexico in 2002 and won its sixth
contract to build and manage a highway in the nation in June. It
has a 49 percent stake in the operator of the Toluca airport
outside Mexico City, according to its website.  OHL’s revenue surged 60 percent to 11.3 billion pesos last
year, according to the company’s prospectus. In 2005, the
company’s Brazilian toll-roads unit raised 431 million reais in
an IPO in that country. The shares have climbed 76 percent this
year to 59.70 reais.  The local units of Banco Santander SA and Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA managed OHL’s sale.  The sale had been expected to demonstrate “renewed life”
for Mexico’s equity markets, Babatz said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan J. Levin  in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  