-- Mexican Peso Falls on Concern European Debt Crisis May Erode Risk Appetite
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2010-11-11T22:08:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/mexican-peso-declines-after-carstens-says-he-s-open-to-interest-rate-cut.html
Mexico’s peso fell for a third time
this week as speculation grew that the European debt crisis may
worsen, reducing demand for riskier assets.  The peso dropped 0.3 percent to 12.2602 per dollar at 5
p.m. New York time, from 12.2189 yesterday. The currency has
gained 6.8 percent this year and is headed for its biggest
annual rally since at least 1972.  “The market is nervous and there is a big selloff”
because of the debt problems in Europe, said  Patricia Restrepo ,
a trader at TD Securities in Toronto.  French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  said yesterday
that investors must share the cost of sovereign debt
restructurings. Bond yields for Europe’s so-called peripheral
countries climbed.  The yield on Mexico’s 10 percent bond due in 2024 rose one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 6.53 percent,
according to Banco Santander SA. The price fell 0.14 centavo to
131.85 centavos per peso.  Earlier, the yield on the benchmark fell as much as 6 basis
points to 6.46 percent after central bank Governor  Agustin Carstens  said he would consider cutting interest rates to help
maintain export growth should a currency rally accelerate.  “The rumor was out there for the past few days,” said
 Omar Martin del Campo , head trader at Banco Ve Por Mas SA in
Mexico City. “The scenario changes now, with the governor
saying it officially. The drop could accelerate.”  Dollar Options  Carstens said yesterday he could lower borrowing costs or
sell more dollar options if the Federal Reserve’s debt-buying
plan to aid the U.S. economy leads to excessive capital inflows.
He spoke in an interview at the Bloomberg Economic Summit in
Mexico City.  Mexico’s benchmark rate has been 4.5 percent since July
2009.  “We want the bank to be consistent and avoid jumping the
gun prematurely,” Carstens, 52, said. If short-term portfolio
inflows intensify, “we would consider adjusting our rates.”  Traders didn’t trigger any of the $600 million in dollar
options available today, the central bank said on its website.
The bank has been auctioning the dollar options monthly,
allowing it to purchase dollars as it seeks to boost foreign
reserves after the peso reached a record low last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  