-- Mexico Oil Producer Pemex Belongs on Stock Exchange, Bolsa CEO Tellez Says
-- B y   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 2010-11-11T21:16:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/mexico-oil-producer-pemex-belongs-on-stock-exchange-bolsa-ceo-tellez-says.html
Petroleos Mexicanos, Latin America’s
largest oil producer, would benefit from following the path of
Brazil’s state-controlled  Petroleo Brasileiro SA  and selling a
stake to the public, according to  Luis Tellez , chairman and
chief executive officer of  Bolsa Mexicana de Valores SAB .  “Pemex should move the way Petrobras has moved, with the
government having still controlling shares and having a very
transparent privately run company,” Tellez said today in an
interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York. “Within the
political establishment, within Congress, within the parties,
the issue of Petrobras is being discussed.”  Petrobras first sold shares to the public in December 1957
on the now extinct Rio de Janeiro stock exchange and has soared
more than six-fold in the past decade. The company raised as
much as $70 billion in the world’s  largest share  sale in
September to help finance its $224 billion investment plan.  State-owned Pemex, as the company is known, had revenue of
$83.4 in 2009 and provides about a third of Mexico’s public
budget.  Tellez said a Pemex IPO has support even among members of
Mexico’s Party of the Democratic Revolution, whose presidential
candidate in the 2006 elections,  Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador ,
worked to derail efforts to loosen the company’s monopoly on
energy production in 2008. Mexico’s constitution reserves the
ownership of oil and gas for the state and bans any accord that
would give outsiders an equity stake in oil projects.  “The enlightened people of the PRD are saying we have to
do something, and look at what President Lula did, and look at
what Petrobras is doing,” Tellez said. “I think that there
will be a turning point which will be the election of 2012.”  Ten companies may sell shares in the Mexican market next
year, including the Mexican units of foreign-based oil-services
providers, Tellez said. The nation will probably have one more
IPO this year after OHL Mexico SAB, a unit of Spanish
construction company Obrascon Huarte Lain SA, raised 9.7 billion
pesos ($797 million) in Mexico’s biggest offering yesterday, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Camila Russo  in New York at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  