-- Fed `New World Order' May Boost Treasury Volatility, Caron Says
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2010-11-11T18:56:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/fed-s-new-world-order-may-boost-treasury-volatility-morgan-stanley-says.html
Treasury  volatility over the shorter
term may increase as the Federal Reserve begins its second round
of asset purchases under quantitative easing, according to
Morgan Stanley’s  James Caron .  Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s MOVE  index , measuring price
swings based on over-the-counter options maturing in 2 to 30
years, climbed yesterday to 91.60, the highest level since Nov.
2, the day before the central bank announced that it will buy
$600 billion in additional government debt through.  “Many expected that volatility would have declined since
QE is a prescription for low and stable rates,” Caron, head of
U.S. interest-rate strategy at Morgan Stanley in New York, wrote
in a research note. “We should get used to the fact that rates
may swing around a lot but ultimately stay in a range unless
fundamental conditions change and warrant a break in that range.
Perhaps this is the new world order that QE will usher in.”  Investors should buy variance swaps on Treasuries to bet
that volatility will increase within a narrow range as positive
economic reports cause Treasuries to fall and negative figures
give the market a boost. Variance swaps are over-the-counter
products whose profitability is based on the volatility
experienced by a security over a set period of time.  The bet “can pay off even if rates stay in a range but
vary a lot within that range,” wrote Caron, whose firm is one
of the 18 primary dealers that trade directly with the Fed.  The Fed will purchase $105 billion of Treasuries over the
next month under an expansion of monetary stimulus measures to
reduce unemployment from a 26-year high and avert deflation.  Treasury Yields  The benchmark 10-year note  yield  dropped three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 2.63 percent yesterday
after rising as much as 12 basis points. The  yield  on the 30-
year bond fell two basis points to 4.23 percent after increasing
as much as eight basis points to 4.33 percent, the highest level
since May 18. The bond market is closed today in observance of
Veterans Day.  Recent volatility in rates “may seem counterintuitive, but
from a market trading perspective it’s not,” Caron wrote. “The
important distinction to make is between time frames: short-term
versus long-term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  