-- Fed Easing Seen Ineffective by 75% in Global Poll Favoring ECB
-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 2010-11-11T05:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/fed-credit-ease-seen-ineffective-by-75-in-global-poll-favoring-ecb-policy.html
Global investors doubt the Federal
Reserve’s plan to buy more Treasury securities will boost the
U.S. economy or bring down unemployment and say they believe the
government is pursuing a weak-dollar policy, a poll shows.  Three-quarters of those surveyed say the central bank’s
securities purchases -- or quantitative easing -- will have
little or no effect on  joblessness , according to the latest
quarterly Bloomberg Global Poll of 1,030 investors, analysts and
traders who are Bloomberg subscribers. More than half say the
Fed’s action won’t increase U.S. growth over the next year.  Lower unemployment “is a long way off,”  Jonathan Mackay ,
a poll participant and senior fixed-income strategist for Morgan
Stanley Smith Barney LLC in New York, said in an e-mail.  Global investors do think the Fed will have some success in
lifting inflation, another goal. Half expect inflation to rise
modestly as a result of the central bank’s actions. One in five
say the Fed will get more than it’s hoping for and that
inflation will increase to dangerous levels.  The difference between yields on  10-year Treasury notes  and
the equivalent Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge
of inflation expectations,  rose  to 2.11 percentage points
yesterday from 1.63 points on Aug. 27, when Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank might take further steps to boost
the economy.  Keeping Dollar Down  Seven of 10 respondents say the U.S. is deliberately
keeping the dollar low against other currencies, while only one
in four think it’s letting the market decide the value of the
greenback, according to the survey conducted Nov. 8 by  Selzer &
Co. , a Des Moines, Iowa-based firm.  Investors are more favorably disposed to the policies
adopted by the European Central Bank than they are to the Fed’s.
Two-thirds say the ECB acted wisely in deciding last week
against taking additional action to stimulate the region’s
economy. Fewer than half think the same of the Fed’s decision to
buy more bonds.  “The ECB looks like the most responsible central bank as
QE becomes inefficient if everyone does it,”  Joel Kahil , an
investment analyst in London for insurance company  Amlin Plc ,
said in an e-mail. “And the same applies if everyone does
competitive devaluation that would lead to protectionism.”  Improving Economy  Still, more than two-thirds of investors describe the U.S.
economy as stable or improving. That echoes a separate survey by
Bloomberg, in which economists said growth will strengthen
through 2011. After expanding at a 2.2 percent annual rate this
quarter and next, the economy will accelerate to a 3.2 percent
pace by the last three months of 2011, according to the median
forecast of economists polled from Nov. 3 to Nov. 9.  The results of the poll underscore complaints by officials
from China, Germany and Brazil, who say the Fed’s Treasury-
purchase plan may jar other economies while failing to fuel U.S.
growth. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  called the
move “clueless” and suggested it was aimed at driving down the
dollar.  The Fed said Nov. 3 it intends to buy an additional $600
billion of longer-term Treasury securities over the next eight
months. It said progress in reducing joblessness, which stood at
9.6 percent in October, has been “disappointingly slow” and
called underlying inflation “somewhat low.” Excluding food and
fuel costs, consumer prices rose 0.8 percent in the 12 months
ended September, the smallest year-on-year gain since 1961.  Bernanke Standing Falls  Such an approach is called quantitative easing because it
seeks to loosen monetary policy by purchasing quantities of
bonds rather than lowering short-term interest rates, which are
already near zero percent.  Bernanke, whose standing with investors has slipped,
according to the poll, defended the action, telling students in
Jacksonville, Florida, on Nov. 5 that he and his fellow policy
makers must focus on the U.S. rather than overseas economies in
settling on their strategy.  The euro has risen 8 percent against the dollar since
Bernanke’s Jackson Hole, Wyoming, speech Aug. 27. A plurality of
poll respondents -- 44 percent -- expects the dollar to fall
further over the next three months versus the euro.  “By engaging in QE, the U.S. is hoping to cheapen the
dollar, improve its trade competitiveness and grow its export
share,” said poll respondent  Filip Ruszkowski , managing
director of Macro Advisors Pte. Ltd. in Singapore.  More than half of investors describe the Fed’s policy as
too aggressive, compared with 36 percent who say it’s about
right. Only 10 percent believe the central bank is being too
timid.  Deficit Concern  Poll respondents are also worried about U.S. fiscal policy.
More than three in five say there’s a moderate or big risk that
the  budget deficit  will provoke a crisis of confidence and a
dramatic rise in long-term interest rates in the next two years.  Bernanke’s standing among investors has fallen. Just over
60 percent view the chairman favorably in the latest poll,
compared with 71 percent who felt that way in September.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  is seen favorably
by 44 percent of respondents against 47 percent who rate him
unfavorably.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  gets favorable marks from
55 percent of those surveyed, little changed from September.
Bundesbank President  Axel Weber , considered by economists to be
a leading candidate to replace Trichet as ECB president when he
steps down in a year, is rated favorably by 46 percent of
investors, according to the poll. Twenty percent view him
unfavorably, while the rest have no idea.  Among European investors, Weber receives a positive rating
of 51 percent, compared with 66 percent for Trichet.  Blank Slate  Bank of Italy Governor  Mario Draghi , who is also considered
a candidate to succeed Trichet, is more of a blank slate for
global investors. More than half say they have no idea how to
rate him, with the balance about evenly split between those
according him favorable and unfavorable marks.  Draghi is better-known to European investors. Three in 10
gave him a positive rating, while one in four rated him
negatively. The balance had no opinion.  The survey has a margin of error of plus or minus 3.1
percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rich Miller  in Washington 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  