-- Fed's Lockhart Says Tax, Regulatory, Fiscal Uncertainty Hurts Employment
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2010-11-11T23:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/fed-s-lockhart-says-tax-regulatory-fiscal-uncertainty-hurts-employment.html
Employment gains have been hurt by
uncertainty over tax, regulatory and fiscal policy, Federal
Reserve Bank of Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart  said, citing
feedback from companies in his district.  “Our contacts cite a litany of uncertainties as reason for
a wait-and-see posture toward expansion-related spending and
hiring,” Lockhart said in the text of a speech in Atlanta. “A
first priority is that government authorities bring clarity to
matters central to business planning.”  He said businesses contacts across the six southern states
that account for about 13 percent of the U.S. economy cited
uncertainty over the cost of new health-care regulations and the
extension of  Bush-era tax cuts  that expire at the end of the
year as reasons for caution on hiring.  While Lockhart has spoken in favor of the Fed’s planned
purchases of $600 billion in Treasuries through June to spur
growth, his comments echoed concerns raised by Dallas Fed
President  Richard Fisher  that regulatory issues outside the
scope of monetary policy may be weighing on the labor market.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is trying to boost growth
after near-zero interest rates and $1.7 trillion in securities
purchases through last March helped pull the economy out of
recession without bringing down joblessness that’s lingering
near a 26-year high.  Lack of Clarity  The level of concern about regulatory and other government
issues “doesn’t feel normal,” Lockhart said. “Prominent among
these is the lack of clarity about the cost implications of the
recent health-care legislation. We’ve frequently heard strong
comments to the effect of ‘My company won’t hire a single
additional worker until we know what health insurance costs are
going to be.’ ”  The U.S. added 151,000 jobs last month as employment gained
for the first time in five months, while the jobless rate held
steady at 9.6 percent. The unemployment rate may average 9.3
percent in 2011, according to the median forecast of 52
economists surveyed this month by Bloomberg News.  Lockhart, whose speech was titled “Business Feedback on
Today’s Labor Market,” said anecdotes from the Atlanta Fed’s
staff surveys and his own conversations with business people
have served as a check on economic data.  “At a high level, our outlook has been one of slow slog
versus rapid recovery,” he said at an Atlanta Fed conference on
employment. “The anecdotal input helped us avoid overreacting
to the false momentum of the spring and what we now interpret as
a transitory slowdown over the summer.”  Fed Debate  Fed officials are debating why unemployment has been so
persistent. Fisher has said businesses are holding back because
of uncertainty over new regulations, such as health care reform,
and  Narayana Kocherlakota  of Minneapolis says a mismatch of
worker skills and jobs is contributing.  Others, led by Bernanke, say weak demand is the greater
reason. “The pace of structural change is not greater than
normal,” he said in a speech in Boston last month, and “the
bulk of the increase in unemployment since the recession began
is attributable to the sharp contraction” in demand.  Lockhart didn’t discuss monetary policy in his remarks. In
October, he said he was ’’leaning in favor’’ of additional
quantitative easing as an ’’insurance policy’’ against sluggish
growth and the risk of falling prices.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Matthews  in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  