-- IMG's Forstmann Says Federer Bet Was `Bad Judgment'
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2010-11-11T22:26:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/federer-french-open-wager-cost-agent-forstmann-40-000-for-bad-judgment-.html
Ted Forstmann  was told by the
men’s tennis tour not to violate its gambling rules after he
acknowledged making a $40,000 wager on  Roger Federer , a client
of his company, to beat  Rafael Nadal  in the 2007 French Open
final.  Forstmann, the chief executive officer of IMG Worldwide
Inc., the sports agency that represents athletes including
golfer  Tiger Woods  and Federer, said in an interview that he
regretted betting on Federer to win the match against Nadal,
also an IMG client. Federer lost the final.  “The ATP has sent the message very clearly to Mr.
Forstmann that we consider his behavior inappropriate and that
he will be in violation of the rules if he engages in such
activity in the future,” the ATP said.  Jim Gallagher, a spokesman at IMG, said in a telephone
interview that the ATP statement and an earlier one from the
Tennis Integrity Unit of the International Tennis Federation
“both speak for themselves.”  Forstmann’s bet, which was criticized by Federer, may form
part of a lawsuit that accuses the executive of using company
funds to cover gambling losses, the New York Times said.
Forstmann denies wrongdoing and said the bet was legal.  “It was bad judgment,” Forstmann said of the bet in an
interview with  Erik Schatzker  on Bloomberg Television’s “Inside
Track.” “I would have been rooting for him just as hard had I
had no money on him at all.”  No More Bets  The wager was “a bet on a friend,” said the 70-year-old
Forstmann. Bets at tournaments such as Wimbledon are “very
standard,” Forstmann said, adding that the wager on Federer was
“probably” the last one he’d made in sports.  “I don’t anymore, and I haven’t for three years,” he
said.  Forstmann’s wager was made before the  International Tennis
Federation ’s anti-corruption program came into force in 2009.
The rules prevent any “covered person” from placing bets on
the outcome of a match.  A “covered person” refers to a player, related person
such as a coach, trainer, therapist, physician, management
representative, agent, family member, tournament guest, or
business associate as well as tournament support personnel,
according to the ITF.  The anti-corruption unit questioned Forstmann about betting
on Federer, Mark Harrison, a spokesman for the London-based
agency, said in an e-mail today.  “Forstmann has confirmed that he understands and accepts
this and advised that he has not gambled on tennis since the
uniform tennis anti-corruption program came into effect,”
Harrison said.  ‘Bad Thing’  Federer said it was “disappointing” to be linked to an
incident he had no control over or involvement in.  “It’s a bad thing that people who might be closer to the
game are betting on our sport,” the 29-year-old Swiss right-
hander said. “But you can’t control sometimes what other people
do. All I can do is, myself and my team, make sure we don’t do
anything that’s not allowed.”  Federer, who has won a record 16 men’s major singles
titles, spoke at a news conference last night in Paris after
beating France’s  Richard Gasquet  in the second round of the  BNP
Paribas Masters .  Federer said he contacted Forstmann for an explanation and
had received some “straight answers.”  Federer is represented at IMG by his long-time agent,  Tony Godsick  and stressed that Forstmann is “not my agent.”  “He’s head of IMG,” the player said. “He owns the
company and I’m sure he’s learned his lesson through that.”  The lawsuit, which accuses Forstmann of fraud, interference
with contract and breach of contract, is being brought in Los
Angeles County Superior Court by Agate Printing Inc., whose CEO,
Jim Agate, is seeking damages for lost business, the Times said.  Retaining Woods  Forstmann, worth $1.6 billion according to Forbes Magazine,
also said he doesn’t see IMG dropping Woods as a client.  “We’re his agent, we’re not his caretaker,” Forstmann
said. “We’re supposed to arrange sponsorships for him.”  Woods’s income from sponsors has slumped by $22 million to
$70 million since November 2009, Sports Illustrated said on July
21.  The 14-time major golf champion lost endorsements including
Accenture Plc, AT&T Inc. and Procter & Gamble Co.’s Gillette
razors during a turbulent 12 months that began with a single-car
accident outside his Florida home in the early hours of Nov. 27.  Since then, Woods has admitted to repeated marital
infidelity, leading to his divorce, and took almost five months
away from the game, losing the No. 1 spot in the Official World
Golf Ranking that he held for a record 281 consecutive weeks.  His swing coach,  Hank Haney , quit and Woods hasn’t won a
tournament this year, his worst run as a professional. This
week, Woods is in Melbourne trying to retain the only title he
still holds, the Australian Masters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laura Marcinek  in New York 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net . 