-- FIFA to Hold Executive Meeting After World Cup Soccer Corruption Hearing
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2010-11-11T21:42:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/fifa-to-hold-executive-meeting-after-world-cup-soccer-corruption-hearing.html
FIFA will convene a special meeting
of the executive committee of soccer’s governing body 48 hours
after its ethics panel rules on corruption allegations against
two members.  FIFA  today sent invitations to the meeting to the 24
representatives who will vote in December on where the World Cup
will be held in 2018 and 2022.  “We’re still waiting for the agenda,” said  Chuck Blazer ,
a member of the committee, who is American.  Geoff Thompson , a vice president at the ruling body, said
the meeting is the first of its kind during his four years on
the executive. FIFA didn’t respond to calls or an e-mail
requesting comment.  The Zurich-based organization on Nov. 17 will announce the
ethics committee’s decision on whether to expel Nigeria’s  Amos Adamu  and Tahiti’s Reynald Temarii. The two were suspended on
Oct. 21 after the Sunday Times said the duo told undercover
reporters they would exchange their World Cup votes for cash.  If they are expelled, 22 members of the executive committee
will vote on the 2018 and 2022 hosts for sport’s most-watched
event. FIFA has never previously chosen two World Cup hosts at
the same time.  The U.S., Qatar, Australia, South Korea and Japan are
bidding for the 2022 tournament. Qatar is also under
investigation for alleged collusion with a joint offer from
Spain and Portugal for the 2018 event. The Iberian bid is
challenging England, Russia and a joint submission from the
Netherlands and Belgium to host the 2018 edition.  The 2014 World Cup will be played in Brazil.  A technical report from an inspection team on the nine
bidders will also be distributed to the executive committee on
Nov. 17.  FIFA President  Sepp Blatter  said he’d drive any “devils”
out of the sport when Adamu and Temarii were suspended.  Whatever the result of the corruption claims “there’s
damage for FIFA and for the World Cup,”  Junji Ogura , a member
of the executive, told the BBC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq  Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 