-- Dino de Laurentiis, Producer of `Serpico' and `War and Peace,' Dies at 91
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2010-11-11T15:30:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/film-producer-dino-de-laurentiis-dies-in-los-angeles-at-91-ansa-reports.html
Dino De Laurentiis , the son of
Italian pasta makers who became a prolific movie producer of
blockbuster hits such as “Serpico,” expensive duds such as
“Dune” and sweeping epics including “War and Peace,” has
died. He was 91.  He died in Los Angeles, his longtime adopted home, Agence
France-Presse reported, citing his family. He lived in Beverly
Hills with his third wife, Martha. The news agency said his
nephew, producer  Aurelio De Laurentiis , confirmed his uncle’s
death to reporters in Rome.  First in his native Italy, then in the U.S., De Laurentiis
combined marketing flair, an eye for talent and a fearlessness
of failure as he  produced  more than 600 films, some prodigious
in scale and ambition, often featuring superstar names in action
thrillers.  He worked with, among many others, directors  Federico Fellini  and  Milos Forman  and actors  Al Pacino ,  Audrey Hepburn 
and  Arnold Schwarzenegger , who credited De Laurentiis’s
“Conan” movies with making him an international superstar.  The tumult of his personal life rivaled the action in his
movie scripts. He had four children with Italian model-turned-
actress  Silvana Mangano , who died in 1989 shortly after their
divorce became final, then two more daughters with third wife
Martha, the youngest one born when De Laurentiis was 71.  His only son, Federico, died in a 1981 plane crash while
making a documentary about salmon fishing. One of De
Laurentiis’s grandchildren,  Giada , is a celebrity chef on U.S.
television.  Early Acclaim  De Laurentiis earned much of his critical acclaim early in
his career. Two films he produced during a seven-year
collaboration with fellow Italian  Carlo Ponti  -- “La Strada,”
which Fellini directed, and “Nights of Cabiria” -- won back-
to-back Academy Awards for best foreign-language film in 1956
and 1957.  Decades passed before the academy again honored De
Laurentiis, presenting him with the  Irving Thalberg Memorial
Award  in 2001 for his body of work.  “I’ve been very lucky in my long life,” De Laurentiis
said upon receiving the award. “On three continents, in diverse
cultures, through happy moments, not-so-happy moments, and
moments as marvelous as this one, I’ve had the privilege of
working with the cinema’s greatest masters.”  Small in stature (various accounts gave his height as
either 5 feet 4 inches or 5 feet 6 inches), De Laurentiis made a
giant impact on how the movie industry stages, promotes and
finances big-budget, big-name spectacles. Rather than work for
Hollywood studios, he sold his productions directly to
distributors in the U.S. and around the world.  ‘Event’ Films  That made De Laurentiis one of the first “global film
producers, savvy about their international audience and raising
money all over the world in order to make ‘event’ films,”
Brooklyn College professor Frederick Wasser wrote in the 2002
 book  “Movies and American Society.”  In the 1980s De Laurentiis briefly turned his attention to
improving the American culinary experience, opening food stores
in Manhattan and Los Angeles. Their lavish displays of breads,
pastas and cold cuts drew crowds of sightseers, but the stores
closed within a few years.  Impressed by the serenity of coastal North Carolina during
filming of  Stephen King ’s “ Firestarter ” in 1983, De Laurentiis
built what later became the  EUE/Screen Gems Studios  in
Wilmington. He seemed on his way to assembling an entertainment
conglomerate when he acquired Embassy Pictures from Coca-Cola
Co., formed the De Laurentiis Entertainment Group and, in 1986,
took the company public.  Big-Budget Flops  A series of big-budget disappointments, including  David Lynch ’s sci-fi thriller “ Dune ” (1984), led to a financial
crisis, and the Beverly Hills, California-based film company
filed for bankruptcy protection in 1988. De Laurentiis stepped
aside as chairman and his daughter, Raffaella, resigned as
president of production.  He never stopped producing movies, however. He ran  Dino De
Laurentiis Co.  with his wife, the former Martha Schumacher, a
one-time administrative assistant in his New York offices. Among
its productions was the hit “ Hannibal ” (2001).  “Making movies is all about instinct,” he said in a 2001
interview with the Los Angeles Times. “Nobody taught Picasso
how to paint -- he learned for himself. And nobody can teach you
to be a producer. You can learn the mechanics, but you can’t
learn what’s right about a script or a director or an actor.
That comes from instinct and intuition. It comes from inside
you.”  Agostino De Laurentiis, the third of seven children, was
born on Aug. 8, 1919, in Torre Annunziata, near Naples. His
parents ran a pasta factory.  Pasta Salesman  Deciding that the life of a traveling pasta salesman wasn’t
for him, De Laurentiis won his father’s permission to study
acting at Rome’s Centro Sperimentale di Cinematografia. He
shortened his name to Dino in his early 20s when he entered the
movie business.  “If you lived in a provincial town like Torre Annunziata,
where there was nothing to do in the evening but go to the
movies with your friends, the cinema was a world of fantasy. I
had always been in love with it,” he recalled in interviews for
the 2004  book  “Dino: The Life and Times of Dino De
Laurentiis.”  He had just broken into Italy’s film business -- working as
a stagehand, extra, director’s assistant, and finally director
of production -- when he was called to military service in 1943
during the final weeks of  Benito Mussolini ’s dictatorship. He
said he retreated with other deserters, avoiding German troops,
until Allied troops secured Italy. Back in Rome in 1944, he got
busy reviving his film career, and Italy’s film industry.  Met Future Wife  He founded Dino De Laurentiis Studios in 1947 and had quick
success with “ Bitter Rice ” (1949), which was nominated in the
U.S. for an Academy Award for best picture. It was on that set
that he met Mangano, a teenage model breaking into acting. They
would marry in 1949.  In the 1950s he began work on the epics that would help
define his career. With Ponti he produced “ Ulysses ” (1954),
with Mangano and  Kirk Douglas , and “ War and Peace ” (1956),
with Hepburn and  Henry Fonda , which was nominated for Academy
Awards for cinematography, costume design and best director
(King Vidor).  In 1962, De Laurentiis bought land in Rome and started
work, with government subsidies, on what would become Dinocitta
--“Dino City” -- a sprawling production studio that opened in
1964 and was patterned after Cinecitta, the studio founded by
Mussolini. Among the movies he made there was “ Barbarella ”
(1968), the science-fiction film that featured  Jane Fonda  in
various states of erotic dress, and undress.  Dino’s City  Dino’s city didn’t stand for long. By the early 1970s De
Laurentiis was chafing at the Italian government’s demands that
films have Italian directors and predominantly Italian casts.
Meantime, the Italian film industry was in decline, and
Dinocitta was losing money each year.  De Laurentiis decamped with his family to New York and
found immediate success with a trio of hit law-and-order movies:
“ Serpico ” (1973) starring Pacino; “ Death Wish ” (1974)
starring  Charles Bronson ; and “ Three Days of the Condor ”
(1975), with  Robert Redford  and  Faye Dunaway . He would become a
U.S. citizen in 1986.  De Laurentiis heaped praise on the U.S. before and after
making it his home. “In Italy, contrary to the way it is in the
United States, a man who works hard and tries to do something
becomes a target for animosity,” he said in a 1965 interview
with the New Yorker magazine. “In the United States, such a man
is appreciated.”  ‘Only Mistake’  In the 1970s he told New York magazine that building
Dinocitta in Rome “was the only mistake I’ve made in my life.
If I had built it in New York, it would have been fantastic.”
The magazine reported that shuttering Dinocitta had left De
Laurentiis several million dollars in debt, a gap he easily
closed with earnings in the first 18 months of producing movies
in the U.S.  Inspired by the success of the 1975 hit “Jaws,” De
Laurentiis embarked on a $25 million remake of the 1933 movie
“King Kong,” giving the starring role to a model and first-
time actress,  Jessica Lange .  The  1976 movie  was a box office success and won an Academy
Award for visual effects, but left critics mostly unimpressed.
“A series of big, foolish but entertaining spectacle scenes,”
 Vincent Canby  wrote in The New York Times.  Schwarzenegger’s Breakthrough  “ Conan the Barbarian ” (1982), marked the acting
breakthrough of Arnold Schwarzenegger , the Austrian bodybuilder
who years later became governor of California. “It was your 
Conan movies that launched my international career,” 
Schwarzenegger wrote to De Laurentiis on his 80th birthday, 
according to the 2004 biography of the filmmaker.  In 2001, at 82, De Laurentiis showed he could still make
hits when he combined with director  Ridley Scott  and actor
 Anthony Hopkins  on “Hannibal,” the smash sequel to the 1991
hit “The Silence of the Lambs.” He followed that in 2007 with
“Hannibal Rising.”  De Laurentiis’s brief first marriage, in Italy during the
1940s, was annulled. Raffaella, one of his four children with
Mangano was executive producer of the 2004 movie “Sky Captain 
and the World of Tomorrow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laurence Arnold  in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 