-- Former Credit Suisse Proprietary Trader Chan Said to Plan Macro Hedge Fund
-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 2010-11-11T05:08:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/former-credit-suisse-proprietary-trader-chan-said-to-plan-macro-hedge-fund.html
Charlie Chan, a former  Credit Suisse
Group AG  proprietary trader, plans to set up an Asia-focused
macro hedge fund in the first quarter of next year, said three
people with knowledge of the matter.  Singapore-based Chan, who was the head of foreign exchange
strategic trading at Credit Suisse, is in talks with seeding
firms in the U.S. and Europe for funds, the people said, asking
not to be identified as the information is private. They
declined to say if Credit Suisse, which is his prime broker,
will invest in the fund as details about his clients are
confidential. Chan will put his own money into the fund, they
said.  Chan, 51, joins other former traders including  Morgan Sze ,
global head of Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s principal strategies
business, who are starting their own hedge funds. Zurich-based
Credit Suisse shut down some operations that made bets with the
bank’s own money after suffering losses related to the September
2008 bankruptcy of New York-based Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
and other banks are seeking to comply with new U.S. rules aimed
at curbing risk.  “If I see a star prop trader come out of a bank, the most
encouraging sign is if that bank invests in that hedge fund,”
said  Kirby Daley , a Hong Kong-based senior strategist with
Newedge Group’s prime brokerage business. “That’s a sign of
confidence in what the trader has done for them.”  Adam Harper , a spokesman for Credit Suisse in Hong Kong,
declined to comment.  Dodd-Frank  UBS AG, the largest Swiss bank, said in October it has been
in talks with “dozens” of proprietary traders from firms
worldwide who may start their own hedge funds. Banks including
Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase & Co. are complying with the
Dodd-Frank financial-overhaul act in the U.S. that prohibits
them from risking capital by betting for their own accounts.  Chan’s fund, which will seek to profit from broad economic
trends, will charge fees equal to 2 percent of client assets and
20 percent of investment profits, the people said.  Chan, who’s had trading experience in emerging markets in
Asia, will focus on Southeast Asia, China and India when he
starts his fund, the people said. The fund will trade fixed
income, currencies, commodities and equities, they said.  Chan worked at Credit Suisse for more than 25 years, and
was most recently responsible for managing foreign exchange and
local-currency interest rate risk as well as the bank’s
participation in Singapore government bond auctions.  Chan holds an electrical and electronic engineering degree
from University of Nottingham and an MBA from City University
Business School in London, according to the biography.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Netty Ismail  in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  