-- Foursquare Users Top 4 Million as Growth Trumps Sales
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   E m i l y   C h a n g
-- 2010-11-11T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/foursquare-user-base-exceeds-4-million-as-growth-trumps-sales.html
Foursquare Labs Inc.  Chief Executive
Officer  Dennis Crowley  said the company is focused on increasing
user numbers for now, rather than generating sales, as it
confronts competition from Facebook Inc.  “We’re currently not in that mode where we’re building
salespeople and filling the desks,” Crowley said in an interview
at Bloomberg’s San Francisco offices. “We’re in that growth
phase where we’re just trying to build as much as possible.”  Foursquare  has popularized an area of social media that
lets people use the Web to broadcast their whereabouts, and
Crowley said its user base has surged to more than 4 million
from 170,000 at the end of 2009. The company is adding features
to fend off a threat from rivals, including Facebook and Twitter
Inc. that are creating their own location-based services.  “We’re finally building the things we should have had a
long time ago,” said Crowley, who founded Foursquare last year.  The New York-based company is luring about 20,000 new users
a day and plans to increase its staff, now at about 40, to
accommodate the growth, Crowley said.  While it’s mainly focused on attracting users, Foursquare
is also working on tools that would help it make money from
local merchants. Some may be introduced as early as next year,
Crowley said, though he declined to say precisely when.  Foursquare lets users “check in” using mobile phones when
they visit a place or business. Users can see who else has
checked in at locations, review businesses and get suggestions
for things to do nearby. The service also makes it easier for
businesses to tailor offers to users based on their location.  Places, Deals  Facebook, owner of the world’s largest social-networking
site, in August introduced a check-in feature called Facebook
Places that’s similar to Foursquare’s. Earlier this month
Facebook announced another tool called Deals that lets merchants
such as Gap Inc. and McDonald’s Corp. offer discounts to
potential customers, based on where they have checked in.  Facebook’s entry into the market has helped boost growth at
Foursquare by making more consumers aware of location services,
Crowley said. Facebook’s Deals won’t hamper Foursquare’s ability
to thrive, he said, citing services that tried to replicate the
status updates popularized by microblogging site Twitter Inc.  “Twitter has its DNA and it’s succeeding in a way that --
Facebook couldn’t crush it with the status update,” Crowley
said.  Foursquare, aiming to stay ahead of its competition, is
hiring engineers as fast as it can, though finding qualified
workers can be a challenge, he said.  ‘Great Run’  “New York is a pretty competitive environment,” he said.
“You compete with hedge funds; you compete with technology
companies; there’s like a huge boom for startups going on, too.”  Until now, Foursquare has picked up revenue with some one-
time marketing agreements with large customers, including chain
stores, to test the service to target users, he said.  Foursquare raised $20 million in June from investors
including Andreessen Horowitz. Crowley sold Dodgeball.com, a
location-based service, to Google Inc. in 2005.  In response to a question about potential takeover
overtures from companies such as Yahoo! Inc., Crowley said
Foursquare is planning to stay independent for now.  “We’re on a great run, and it is too early to get off it,”
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian Womack  in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net  and
 Emily Chang  in San Francisco at 
 echang68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  