-- FSB to Focus on Rules for Shadow Banking, Draghi Says
-- B y   F l a v i a   R o t o n d i   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2010-11-12T10:13:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/fsb-to-focus-on-regulating-shadow-banking-industry-draghi-says.html
The  Financial Stability Board  is set
to focus on tougher rules for too-big-to-fail organizations
operating in the “shadow-banking sector” to prevent another
global economic crisis, its chairman  Mario Draghi  said.  Systemically important financial institutions, or SIFIs,
“don’t reside only within the banking sector,” Draghi said in
a Nov. 5 interview in Ancona, Italy. Over the next two years,
the FSB will focus on “the progressive enlargement of what we
call the regulatory perimeter to include the most important
segments” of the “shadow financial sector.”  Leaders from the Group of 20 nations today approved plans
by the FSB and the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision to
subject too-big-to-fail groups to tougher capital and liquidity
rules. These may include “liquidity surcharges, tighter large
exposure restrictions, levies and structural measures,” the G-
20 leaders meeting in Seoul said in their statement.  The Basel-based FSB, set up by the G-20 last year to find
ways to rein in the world’s largest financial institutions after
the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression, should
complete work on more stringent rules by 2012, the leaders said.  Tougher regulations for the shadow industry -- which
includes securities brokers, hedge funds and money-market funds
-- aim to prevent a repeat of the turmoil that followed the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. The sector’s
liabilities totaled about $16 trillion in the first three months
of 2010, according to a staff report published by the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York in July.  Absorbing Losses  The FSB wants “globally active” SIFIs to “have what we
call a great loss-absorbency capacity, greater than what is
foreseen by the minimum-capital standards” agreed on by the
Basel committee, Draghi said. The committee agreed in September
to more than triple the highest-quality capital that banks must
hold, a recommendation G-20 leaders approved today.  “How this greater capacity is going to be addressed by
different institutions will depend on what these institutions
are, what is their history,” said Draghi, 63.  Global policy makers need to make sure that banks adjusting
to tighter rules on capital don’t build up risks in the shadow
banking system, International Monetary Fund economists said in a
report this month. Banks “may shift some activities to the
unregulated shadow banking sector or their businesses to
jurisdictions with less onerous regulatory requirements,” the
 IMF staff  said.  Assessing Institutions  The Basel committee said in a statement last month that it
plans to agree on provisional criteria for “assessing the
systemic importance of financial institutions at the global
level” by the end of 2010.  “On the basis of quality and quantity of the indicators
provided by the Basel committee, on the basis of these
indicators and only on the basis of these indicators, the FSB
will identify together with national authorities the globally
active SIFIs,” said Draghi, who is also Bank of Italy governor.  The FSB plans to complete this process by mid-2011, the
board said in a report to G-20 leaders. The board plans to
identify what requirements to place on globally active SIFIs by
December 2011, according to the report.  “The FSB will review how to extend the framework to cover
a wider group of SIFIs, including financial-market
infrastructures, insurance companies and other non-bank
financial institutions,” the FSB said.  Hedge Funds  “Draghi is right to say that systemically important
financial institutions don’t reside only within the banking
sector,” said  Andrew Baker , chief executive officer of the
Alternative Investment Management Association, which represents
the hedge-fund industry. AIMA “would note that the UK FSA’s
view is that at the moment, hedge funds do not present ‘a
potentially destabilizing credit counterparty risk,’” he said
by e-mail, referring to a report published by the U.K Financial
Services Authority in February.  The FSB and the Basel committee are developing a “well-
integrated approach” to SIFIs that may include capital
surcharges, bonds which convert to equity when a firm is in
distress, or mandatory losses for investors in pre-agreed
situations, the committee said in a statement in September.  Draghi said instruments to achieve greater loss absorbency
will “be discussed by the different jurisdictions.” Their
decisions will be subject to a “well-thought” out peer-review
process within the Basel-based FSB, he said.  Supervision  “All these jurisdictions having SIFIs should have a
supervisory system in place capable of actually undertaking
effective supervision at the degree of complexity that SIFIs
have today,” said Draghi, a former vice chairman at  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc .  G-20 leaders in Seoul reiterated calls for measures to
ensure that no company is “too big or too complicated to
fail.” Measures are needed so that financial institutions can
be wound down “without destabilizing the financial system and
exposing the taxpayers to the risk of loss,” the leaders said.  Systemically important institutions “have to be resolvable
in an orderly way, mainly without disruption of the most
important sectors of financial markets,” Draghi said. “They
have to be resolvable without the use of public money.”  The FSB replaced the Financial Stability Forum, a think
tank with no formal role that was created in 1999 after the
Asian financial crisis. The group’s members include national
regulators from 24 countries, including all members of the G-20.  “The G20 gave great evidence of being the most important
forum for global coordination and global economic policy,”
Draghi said. Financial regulation is “the area where this
international coordination has made the greatest progress.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lorenzo Totaro  in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  