-- Fubon Plans to Bid for AIG's Taiwan Unit After $2.15 Billion Blocked Sale
-- B y   J a n e t   O n g
-- 2010-11-11T04:06:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/fubon-financial-may-make-offer-for-aig-s-taiwan-life-insurance-unit-sale.html
Fubon Financial Holding Co.  may bid
for  American International Group Inc. ’s Taiwan life-insurance
unit, a deal that would make it the island’s largest insurer,
overtaking Cathay Life Insurance Co.  “We will participate in the process when it is up for
sale,”  Victor Kung , president of Taipei-based Fubon, said in a
phone interview today. “As far as we know, the process hasn’t
started yet.”  Taiwan’s Financial Supervisory Commission on Aug. 31
rejected an application by a group led by Primus Financial
Holdings Ltd. and  China Strategic Holdings Ltd.  to buy AIG’s  Nan
Shan Life Insurance Co.  for $2.15 billion, citing concerns over
its financial capability and long-term commitment to operate the
business. AIG has been trying for more than a year to complete
what’s expected to be its second-biggest disposal since the
September 2008 U.S. government bailout.  "The FSC is less likely to oppose a possible Fubon
acquisition as it has experience operating a life insurance
business and is an established local company,’’ said  Zhuang Biyan , an analyst at Taipei-based Mega Securities Co. He has a
“buy on weakness”  rating  on Fubon Financial with a six-month
target price of NT$48.  Expanding Customer Base  Fubon Financial, Taiwan’s second-biggest financial services
company, acquired  ING Groep NV’s  local life insurance unit in
October 2008 for $600 million, expanding its customer base by
about a third. Fubon Life Insurance Co. reported net income of
NT$9.72 billion ($324 million) for the first 10 months.  Fubon Financial shares rose 0.1 percent to NT$38.35 at
11:30 a.m. in local trading. The shares have risen 2.5 percent
this year, compared with a 3.1 percent gain in the benchmark
Taiex Index.  AIG said Nov. 5 it expects to complete the sale of Nan Shan
within a year. Nan Shan, based in Taipei, was set up in July
1963 and was bought by American International Underwriters Ltd.,
the property and general insurance unit of AIG, in January 1970,
according to Nan Shan’s  website .  The New York-based insurer is selling assets and planning
to raise funds to repay taxpayers and return to independence.
AIG expects to retire its government  credit line  with proceeds
from the sale of two non-U.S. life units and convert a $49.1
billion Treasury Department  stake  into common stock by the end
of March. It said last week it swung to a third-quarter loss of
$2.4 billion after writing down the value of units it’s selling
and taking charges tied to repaying rescue loans.  The Economic Daily News earlier today reported that Fubon
Financial was considering a bid for Nan Shan, citing Vice
Chairman  Richard Tsai .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Janet Ong  at 
 jong3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  