-- G-20 Grinds Toward Currency Accord After Overnight Talks
-- B y   M i c h a e l   F o r s y t h e   a n d   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 2010-11-12T00:47:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/g-20-nations-at-odds-over-currency-stance-push-to-avoid-trade-imbalances.html
Group of 20  nations’ efforts to
tackle currency and trade imbalances floundered as China
rejected policy prescriptions that fault its exchange rate
regime and directed criticism at monetary easing in the U.S.  “Don’t make other people take the medicine for your
disease,” Yu Jianhua, a director general at China’s Ministry of
Commerce, told reporters in Seoul late yesterday. “Quantitative
easing will have a very big impact on developing countries
including China.”  At stake for the global economy is averting a repeat of the
currency and trade tensions that erupted in the 1930s and were
blamed for worsening the Great Depression. The pivotal roles
China and the U.S. must play to get a breakthrough at the G-20
was underscored by an 80-minute meeting between Presidents
 Barack Obama  and  Hu Jintao  dominated by exchange rates.  “The Chinese can’t help but think this is just a way of
continuing to point the finger at China,” said  Neil Mackinnon ,
an economist at VTB Capital Inc. in London and a former Treasury
official. “It doesn’t look as if we’re going to see anything
specific or substantive that will address global imbalances.”  China’s record $28 billion trade surplus with the U.S. in
August heightened criticism its government maintains an unfair
cap on yuan appreciation to the detriment of U.S. businesses.
Obama, who has pledged to double exports within five years, has
sought to broaden the currency debate by linking it to a
worldwide effort to rein in current-account excesses.  Germany’s Surplus  Germany’s current-account surplus as a percentage of gross
domestic product for 2010 is set to be 6.1 percent, the second
highest in the G-20 after Saudi Arabia, based on International
Monetary Fund projections. The U.S. is likely to see a deficit
equivalent to 3.2 percent of GDP, the third deepest, it said.  China is seeking to modify the language on trade imbalances
in the summit communique, said a German official taking part in
the talks who requested anonymity because he isn’t authorized to
speak publicly for the government. G-20 finance chiefs last
month agreed to “pursue the full range of policies conducive to
reducing excessive imbalances and maintaining current account
balances at sustainable levels.”  G-20 negotiators made progress on currency and current-
account issues late last night, G-20 committee spokesman Kim
Yoon Kyung said today.  ‘Positive’ Prospects  “The prospect is now positive. The G-20 leaders will
likely move forward beyond the Gyeongju commitment over currency
and current-account issues,” he said, referring to the South
Korean city where the G-20 finance chiefs met last month.  Obama and Hu spent “the bulk” of their talks discussing
exchange rates before attending a dinner with other leaders,
said White House press secretary  Robert Gibbs . Canadian Prime
Minister  Stephen Harper  said he was “not so sure” an agreement
can be reached in time for the summit’s conclusion later today.  Hu told Obama yesterday that China was committed to
reforming the yuan exchange rate regime, Chinese delegation
spokesman  Ma Zhaoxu  told reporters last night. Hu told Obama
that it would be an “incremental process” that required a
“sound” global economy, Ma said.  “They have to deal with the underlying causes for this
instability, which are these imbalances,” said  Josef Ackermann ,
chief executive officer of Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank AG.
“It’s not about assigning blame to who is in deficit and who is
in surplus -- the markets will decide who is in surplus and who
in deficit -- but to create a framework to find the right
balance.”  Yuan Gains  China’s yuan rose 0.16 percent to 6.6238 per dollar as of
5:30 p.m. in Shanghai yesterday, according to the China Foreign
Exchange Trading System. The yuan has risen about 3 percent
against the U.S. currency since June 19, when China said it was
allowing a resumption of appreciation that was frozen in 2008.
China permitted a faster pace of gains this week, a
strengthening of about 0.8 percent since Nov. 8, the yuan’s
biggest three-day advance since a currency peg ended in July
2005.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has said that
the yuan remains undervalued and that China needs to show
continued commitment to allow the Chinese currency to rise
further over time. China says that a quick increase in the
yuan’s value would cause economic and social disruption.  Geithner is due to meet with Chinese Vice Premier  Wang Qishan  and People’s Bank of China Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  today.  October Meeting  The G-20 meeting of finance ministers and central bankers
last month agreed to move toward “more market-determined
exchange rate systems” and make efforts on “reducing excessive
imbalances.” The U.S. Federal Reserve a week later said it
would pump $600 billion into the economy to spur growth. Brazil,
Germany and China said the move would drive down the dollar and
fuel speculative capital flows that risk asset bubbles.  Copper on the London Metal Exchange rose to a record
yesterday, while gold and cotton touched all-time highs this
week as investors sought assets as a hedge against currency
debasement. The weak dollar and low interest rates are fueling
inflows of funds to higher-yielding markets, with governments in
South Korea, Brazil and Taiwan raising barriers to foreign
investors.  Former Federal Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan , writing in
an opinion piece in the Financial Times yesterday, said that
both the U.S. and China were depressing their currencies.  No Weapon  “We will never seek to weaken our currency as a tool to
gain competitive advantage,” Geithner said in an interview with
CNBC television, according to a transcript released yesterday.  China, the U.S.’s second-largest trading partner, had a
trade surplus in excess of  $170 billion  with the U.S. in the 12
months through August, according to the American Department of
Commerce.  China, along with Germany, opposed a suggestion last month
by Geithner that the G-20 consider targets for reining in
current-account imbalances. To meet the targets, countries like
China would likely have to let the value of their currency rise,
making their exports more expensive.  Differences in competitiveness between nations can’t be
leveled by “politically imposed limits,” German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  told global business leaders in Seoul yesterday.  Setting limits on trade gaps “is an idea that should be
discussed,” French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  said.  France takes over the presidency of the Group of 20
tomorrow after the summit chaired by South Korea’s Lee.  “Some countries, those with big deficits, need to deal
with those deficits,” U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  said in
Seoul. The big fear is “countries pursuing beggar-my-neighbor
policies -- trying to do well for themselves but not caring
about the rest of the world.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nicholas Johnston  in Seoul at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Forsythe  in Seoul at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  