-- GE to Purchase 25,000 Electric Vehicles From GM, Rivals by 2015
-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 2010-11-11T21:22:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/ge-will-buy-25-000-electric-cars-from-gm-automakers-in-biggest-such-order.html
General Electric Co.  will buy 25,000
electric vehicles, almost half of them from  General Motors Co. ,
by 2015 in the biggest such order ever.  The purchase will account for at least half of GE’s own
30,000-car fleet and will include vehicles customers can lease
from its GE Capital unit, the company said in a statement today.
GM’s portion of the order is for 12,000 vehicles including the
2011 Chevrolet Volt. Financial terms weren’t disclosed.  Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  is positioning
Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE to benefit from more energy-
efficient technologies by producing batteries, car-charging
stations and smart-grid systems. GE said it’s in a “strong
position” to help 65,000 leasing customers convert to electric
vehicles and sees the electric-car market adding as much as $500
million in sales in the next three years.  “Wide-scale adoption of electric vehicles will also drive
clean-energy innovation, strengthen energy security and deliver
economic value,” Immelt said in the statement. GE’s power-plant
equipment generates one-third of the world’s electricity, and
the need for vehicle-charging stations may spur demand for more
power from its utility customers.  GM Share Sale  GE’s order is a boost for the Volt as Detroit-based GM
prepares for an initial public offering after its 2009
restructuring in bankruptcy. The deal will help both companies,
said  Jim Hall , principal of automotive consulting firm 2953
Analytics in Birmingham, Michigan.  “Fleet sales will always help; it might also get other
companies interested,” Hall said. “Any co-marketing with a
large company has potential.”  GE  fell 20 cents, or 1.2 percent, to $16.35 at 4:15 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
gained 8.1 percent this year.  Immelt said in a speech in London last month that he
planned to order “tens of thousands” of electric vehicles as
part of an effort to urge increased private spending on
renewable-energy investments.  The CEO is boosting research and development at the company
by 18 percent this year and spending $20 billion on it in the
two years ending in 2012. GE, which unveiled its WattStation
plug-in charger in July, this month plans to announce winners in
its $200 million SmartGrid contest.  GE wants “to own a big chunk of the vehicle-charging
business,” Hall said.  Emissions, Oil  In the U.S., President  Barack Obama ’s administration has
committed more than $11 billion in taxpayer aid to help car and
battery makers start producing electric autos.  “Electric vehicles are a real-world technology that can
reduce both emissions and our dependence on oil,” GM CEO  Dan Akerson  said in the statement.  The company plans to start delivering Volts to retail
customers by the end of this year, he said. The sedan has an
electric motor to drive the wheels and a gasoline engine to
recharge the batteries once they’re spent.  Other automakers preparing to sell vehicles powered solely
by batteries in the next 18 months include  Nissan Motor Co. ,
which starts delivering Leaf hatchbacks late this year;  Ford
Motor Co. , readying electric versions of its Transit Connect
delivery van and Focus compact car; and  Toyota Motor Corp. ,
which will sell a rechargeable RAV4 sport-utility vehicle.  By buying so many vehicles, GE is helping drive down their
price, which will spur production and increase demand for
battery plants and other parts-makers,  Fred Smith , chairman of
the Electrification Coalition, a Washington-based organization
of transportation and energy executives, said in the statement.
Smith is CEO of FedEx Corp.  ‘Acceptable to the Public’  The move will “make electric vehicles more visible and
acceptable to the public at large,” Smith said. “This is good
for GE, good for our economy and good for our nation.”  GE will open two customer centers to evaluate vehicle-
charging, driver experience and maintenance requirements and to
display an array of models and manufacturers. One will be near
Detroit in Van Buren Township, Michigan, as part of a new
technology center GE announced last year, and the other in Eden
Prairie, Minnesota, where GE Capital Fleet Services is based,
according to the statement.  GE is investing $10 billion in the next five years in  clean
energy  across its business lines. Its products include lithium-
ion batteries for cars and trucks via a venture with A123
Systems Inc. and sodium-based batteries for use in large
vehicles such as locomotives.  GE Energy Infrastructure is the company’s biggest
 industrial unit , accounting for $37 billion of the parent
company’s $157 billion in revenue last year. GE is also the
world’s largest maker of locomotives, jet engines, medical-
imaging equipment and related information technology systems.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rachel Layne  in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  