-- Geithner Family Seeks Investing Nirvana in Yoga Retailer
-- B y   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t
-- 2010-11-11T16:23:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/geithner-family-contemplates-portfolio-return-with-yoga-retailer-lululemon.html
Government officials often avoid
conflicts between professional obligations and personal finances
by divesting company stocks from their portfolios.  So it comes as a surprise that, along with the standard
mutual funds, Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  owns a
small amount of stock in yoga clothing retailer  Lululemon
Athletica Inc ., Bloomberg BusinessWeek reports in its Nov. 15
issue.  The Vancouver, British Columbia-based  company  has attained
almost cult-like status with urban women who carry Lululemon’s
reusable tote bags and assume the lotus position in its pricey
workout clothes. The firm sells, for example, the $58 “Ta Ta
Tamer” sports bra and the $98 “Groove” pants.  The Treasury secretary, a runner and basketball player, has
never been known for wearing spandex. Turns out he purchased
less than $1,000 worth of shares a few years ago to teach his
two children about the stock market, press aide  Steve Adamske 
says.  Geithner picked the company partly because of his now
college-age daughter’s interest in yoga -- and as a hedge
against her frequent Lululemon purchases, Adamske says.  Additionally, Geithner owns $1,000 to $15,000 worth of
 International Business Machines Corp.  stock, which he inherited.
(Disclosure forms give values in broad ranges only.)  165 Percent Return  The Geithners have potential as stock pickers: Since
Lululemon’s July 2007 initial public offering, the company has
posted a 165 percent return. The  Standard & Poor’s 500-stock
index , meanwhile, lost 20 percent in the same period.  Still, it hasn’t been an easy few years for the retailer,
whose share price has fluctuated since the purchase, providing
fodder for the family lesson plan.  Like most high-end retailers, Lululemon was hit by the
financial crisis and the slowdown in consumer spending. The
company’s stock trailed the S&P from September 2008 to September
2009, when it took off. This year it’s up 59 percent.  Says  Edward Yruma , an analyst at KeyBanc Capital Markets in
New York: “This is good stock to own.”  Geithner might want to incorporate some of Lululemon’s
quirky culture into the kids’ lessons.  Emblazoned across its shopping bags are manifestos like:
“Friends are more important than money.”  Here’s one the chief U.S. economic policy maker may want to
avoid: “Do one thing a day that scares you.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Schmidt  in Washington at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 