-- Geithner Says Dollar Drop Due to Haven-Flow Reversal
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2010-11-11T10:14:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/geithner-says-dollar-fell-on-haven-flow-reversal-rebutting-fed-criticism.html
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said the dollar’s drop in recent months is due to a
reversal in safe-haven capital flows, rebutting former Federal
Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan ’s assessment of U.S. policy.  Investors are no longer seeking as much of a refuge in
dollars, and that’s “a sign of greater confidence that although
we face challenges in the U.S. and globally the risks we face
are more manageable,” Geithner said in a transcript of an
interview with CNBC television distributed by e-mail today. This
shift is “the dominant trend that we see,” he said.  The remarks follow criticism from Chinese officials,
including Vice Finance Minister  Zhu Guangyao  on Nov. 8, that the
Fed plan to buy $600 billion of Treasuries may “shock”
emerging markets by flooding them with short-term capital.
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  called the Fed
“clueless” and Greenspan wrote in the Financial Times today
that the U.S. is “pursuing a policy of currency weakening.”  “I have enormous respect for Greenspan, had the privilege
of working with him for a long period of years but that’s not an
accurate description of either the Fed’s policies or our
policies,” said Geithner, who arrived in South Korea today to
join President  Barack Obama  in efforts to rally support for U.S.
trade initiatives. “We will never seek to weaken our currency
as a tool to gain competitive advantage or to grow the
economy.”  G-20 Talks  Leaders from the Group of 20 nations are deliberating on
whether to endorse proposals to refrain from competitive
currency weakening and to monitor trade balances for signs that
deficits or surpluses are reaching risky levels.  Finance ministers endorsed the plan last month. Since then,
nations including Germany and China have criticized what they
say is a U.S. push to impose unfair limits while the Fed weakens
the dollar.  The  Dollar Index , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the dollar against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners including the euro and yen, slid on Nov. 4 to
the lowest level since December 2009. It lost 11 percent versus
the yen in the past six months, to 82.17 as of 1:13 p.m. in
Tokyo, and 8.2 percent against the euro to $1.3797.  Dollar’s Ride  The Dollar Index surged by March 2009 to its highest level
since 2006 as the financial crises deepened after the failure of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., before retreating by year-end as
the world economy recovered from the deepest postwar recession.
The American currency strengthened again in the first half of
this year as Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis undermined the euro.  Geithner said today he’s “very confident” the leaders
will endorse the framework set out by the finance chiefs.  “We provided a proposal that allows for a cooperative
framework to manage through those kinds of things,” he said.
“You’re going to see very broad support for that because, again,
it’s better than the alternative. Because the alternative is
countries want to go their own way and you see the cooperative
forces so important in solving the crisis dissipate.”  The Treasury secretary also said that China is making
progress on allowing a more flexible yuan and that “it’s very
important to them, and I think they believe this in China too,
that they let this process continue.”  The yuan has strengthened about 0.7 percent against the
dollar since Nov. 8, its biggest three-day advance since a
currency peg ended in July 2005. Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s government
has kept the gains to about 3 percent since pledging to allow
greater flexibility in June.  Inflation Threat  “If you resist those market forces, that pressure is not
going to go away,” Geithner said, attributing the tendency
toward a higher yuan to confidence in the outlook for China’s
economic growth. “It’s just going to end up in higher inflation
or higher asset prices and that’ll be bad for China.”  China’s consumer prices climbed 4.4 percent in October from
a year before, the most in two years, a government report showed
today.  Geithner said tensions arise when emerging-market nations
that allow their currencies to rise are “unfairly” penalized
by countries like China that limit foreign-exchange rate gains.  “The world is going to be more comfortable, the emerging
world, letting their currencies continue to move if they’re
confident China is going to move,” Geithner said. “China will
be confident that they can allow this process of gradual
appreciation continue, if they know that the countries they
compete with are going to let their currencies move up too.”  Europe Debt  Geithner also said worries about European sovereign debt
woes don’t “need to be” a source of global panic. He spoke a
day after Irish 10-year government bonds plunged for a 12th
straight session, with fixed-income clearing house LCH Clearnet
Ltd. demanding its clients place a larger deposit when trading
the nation’s bonds.  European policy makers “put in place in the summer a very
strong set of tools, financial tools, a strong framework they
can use to help those countries manage through these problems
and I think that leaves it completely in Europe’s capacity to
manage it carefully,” Geithner said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Seoul at  rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  