-- General Motors Increasing Stake in Wuling Mini-Vehicle Venture in China
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   J e f f   G r e e n
-- 2010-11-11T03:32:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/general-motors-increasing-stake-in-wuling-mini-vehicle-venture-in-china.html
General Motors Co. is increasing to
44 percent its stake in the Chinese Wuling mini-vehicle venture
it has with partner SAIC Motor Corp., the Detroit-based
automaker said in a U.S. regulatory filing yesterday.  The automaker said in an updated prospectus for its $10.6
billion initial public offering that it will increase its stake
in SAIC-GM-Wuling from 34 percent. GM said it bought the
additional shares from the Wuling Group. If approved by
regulators in China, Wuling would own 6 percent of the venture
while SAIC retains 50 percent.  Increasing its hold on the Wuling venture is one way for GM
to boost profits from the world’s biggest car market. GM
International Operations made $646 million in earnings before
interest and taxes in the third quarter and $2.48 billion in the
first nine months of the year. That unit includes China, Brazil,
India and Russia and excludes North America and Europe.  “GM wants to get to the expansion markets and get a bigger
piece,” said  Jim Hall , principal of 2953 Analytics Inc., a
consulting firm in Birmingham, Michigan. “In China, commercial
vehicles have a lower unit profit so the way to maximize profit
is to increase their stake.”  SAIC-GM-Wuling sales rose 5.1 percent in October to 93,935
vehicles. The venture has sold more than 1 million vehicles this
year, helping GM and its venture partners sell nearly 2 million
vehicles in China through October this year, GM said.  Shares  in SAIC rose 0.1 percent to 19.72 yuan as of 11:08
a.m. in Shanghai trading. The stock has declined 1.9 percent in
2010.  Fuel-Efficient Technologies  GM entered into an agreement to increase its stake in the
Wuling venture in the third quarter, the company said in its
filing. GM announced a memorandum of understanding on Nov. 3
that it will strengthen ties with SAIC to explore new fuel-
efficient technologies. The two companies said they will work on
electric vehicles together and seek ways to expand into emerging
markets like India.  Profits in GM International Operations have declined
throughout the year from $1.16 billion in the first quarter to
$672 million in the second quarter to $646 million in the third
quarter.  Raising its stake in the joint venture that contributes the
bulk of GM’s China sales is positive for the U.S. automaker’s
upcoming share sale, said  Marvin Zhu , senior analyst at J.D.
Power & Associates in Shanghai. GM may also speed up the
transfer of production and engine technology to the venture once
its stake has increased, he said.  “China is a good reason for investors to invest in GM,”
Zhu said.  Selling Shares  The Wuling news came in a regulatory filing as GM
executives are trying to show the company’s profit potential as
they work to sell 365 million shares for $26 to $29 a share.  The U.S. Treasury is selling shares to return a portion of
taxpayers’ $49.5 billion investment in the company. Including
the repurchase of the Treasury’s preferred shares after the IPO,
taxpayers will have received $9.5 billion in repayments,
interest and dividends from GM since the automaker emerged from
bankruptcy in July 2009, according to the Treasury.  To break even, GM shares need to sell for an average of
about $44 a share. The U.S. is relying on secondary offerings to
fetch higher share prices than in the IPO.  A GM spokeswoman,  Renee Rashid-Merem , declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Green  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  