-- Generali Third-Quarter Net Advances 13% to $603 Million, Missing Estimates
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2010-11-11T17:52:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/generali-s-profit-rises-13-to-602-5-million-falling-short-of-estimates.html
Assicurazioni Generali SpA , Europe’s
third-biggest insurer, said quarterly  profit  rose 13 percent as
earnings at its life-insurance unit increased.  Net income climbed to 440 million euros ($602 million) in
the third quarter from 390 million euros a year earlier, the
Trieste, Italy-based company said in a statement today. That
missed the 467 million-euro  average estimate  of 14 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Generali reiterated that it expects to
report higher full-year operating margins and a rise in net
income compared with 2009.  “Operating results this year will be near 4.2 billion
euros, at the upper end of the target,” Chief Financial Officer
 Raffaele Agrusti  said during a conference call today. The
company’s full-year target for operating profit is between 3.6
billion euros and 4.2 billion euros.  Earnings at European insurers are improving as bond and
equity markets rebound following the global financial crisis.
Generali Chief Executive Officer  Giovanni Perissinotto  is trying
to expand in emerging markets and eastern Europe to boost
profitability at the insurer.  Generali fell 2.6 percent to 15.49 euros in Milan, giving
the company a market value of about 24.1 billion euros.  The
Bloomberg Europe 500 Insurance Index  has risen 2 percent this
year, compared with Generali’s 18 percent decline.  Life Business  Generali reported “a solid set of results driven by strong
growth in life inflows,” said  Fabrizio  Croce, an analyst at
Kepler Capital Markets in Zurich who has a “hold”
recommendation on the stock.  Operating profit from life insurance rose 29 percent to 733
million euros in the period, while gross premiums in the unit
fell 1.8 percent to 10.9 billion euros.  The rebound of equity markets in the third quarter boosted
Generali’s capital position, with a 6 percent increase in
shareholders’ equity to 18.2 billion euros.  “Generali doesn’t plan to change its dividend policy for
2010,” Agrusti said. The insurer paid a cash dividend of 35
cents last year.  Non-Life Worsening  Agrusti expects that 2010 operating profit in the non-life
business will be at the lower part of the range of the company’s
forecast of 1.4 billion euros to 1.8 billion euros, because of
rising claims related to catastrophes. The loss ratio, or the
ratio between premiums and claims settled by a company, is about
2.2 percent, one percentage point more than the original
forecast, he said.  The company’s spending on claims and other costs as a
percentage of premiums, also known as the combined ratio,
worsened to 98.8 percent in the first nine months from 97.9
percent a year earlier, Generali said. A ratio above 100 percent
means an insurer’s claims and costs exceed premium income,
giving it a loss from underwriting.  “The non-life segment was hurt this year by rising
catastrophic events, including the Xynthia windstorm, floods in
France and Eastern Europe and the earthquake in Chile,” Agrusti
said.  The non-life business recorded gross premiums of 4.8
billion euros in the third quarter, up from 4.6 billion euros a
year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sonia Sirletti  in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net 
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  