-- Goldman Tells Investors to Exit China Stock Bet With 11.3% Gain
-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 2010-11-11T16:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/goldman-tells-investors-to-exit-china-stock-bet-with-11-3-gain.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. recommended
clients exit a bet that Hong Kong-listed companies in China will
gain on concern the central bank will raise borrowing costs to
tame inflation.  Investors who followed the New York-based firm’s advice
would have earned a return of 11.3 percent as the  Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index  of 40 companies rose above 14,000 from
12,616.01 since April 1, when the trade was initiated, analysts
 Robin Brooks  and  Dominic Wilson  wrote in a research note today.
The recommendation was among the nine “Top Trades” Goldman
Sachs made for 2010.  China’s annual  inflation  rate jumped to a two-year high of
4.4 percent in October while retail sales rose 18.6 percent from
a year earlier, the statistics bureau said today. China
increased reserve requirements for some banks twice yesterday,
taking the total increase to 100 basis points for a few lenders,
according to two people with direct knowledge of the situation.  Inflation is above policy makers’ “comfort zone” and more
“tightening” will likely occur, the New York-based analysts
wrote in the report. “The near-term risk-reward for this
position also looks unappealing as we approach the year-end
‘roll-off,’” they said.  The gain of Chinese stocks in Hong Kong beat the 2.7
percent increase in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 10.8
percent advance in the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  of 22
developing nations during the period. China overtook Japan to
become the second-largest economy in the world in the second
quarter.  Higher Reserve Requirements  The H-share index reached 14,204.13 on Nov. 8, the
strongest level since May 2008, and closed at 14,088.03 today.
Goldman Sachs had a “target” of 15,000 for the trade
recommendation.  Goldman Sachs has closed four of the nine “Top” trades,
including two money-losing ones.  Clients following the bank’s advice would have lost 24
basis points trading interest-rate swaps for the U.K. and
Australia and lost 168 basis points in cross-currency swaps in
Turkey. The advice of buying credit-default swaps in Spain and
selling similar contracts in Ireland returned 2.9 percent.  Profitable Advice  Three of the five remaining recommendations are poised to
be profitable, including buying Russian stocks, wagering a rally
in currencies tied to  growth  and a trade involving U.S. stock
volatility.  The trade of buying the Polish zloty against the Japanese
yen has declined 12 percent since it was initiated in December
and the bet on the British pound’s gain versus the New Zealand’s
dollar has lost 10.6 percent, according to data compiled by
Goldman Sachs and Bloomberg.  The People’s Bank of China said in a statement yesterday
banks’ reserve requirements will rise 50 basis points from Nov.
16, the first nationwide increase since May. China ordered some
lenders, including Bank of Communications Co., to raise their
reserve ratios by an additional 50 basis points, or 0.5
percentage point, from Nov. 15, a person with direct knowledge
of the matter said yesterday.  The “long-term outlook” for emerging-market stocks
remains favorable as growth in developing nations is “robust”
and the companies there benefit from the low interest rates in
major economies, the Goldman Sachs analysts wrote.  “It will be important to be more selective going
forward,” the analysts wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ye Xie  in New York at   yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  