-- Gold, Agriculture Are `Safest Long Positions,' Deutsche Bank's Lewis Says
-- B y   J a e   H u r   a n d   I c h i r o   S u z u k i
-- 2010-11-11T08:17:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/gold-farm-commodities-to-extend-rallies-deutsche-bank-s-lewis-forecasts.html
Precious metals including gold and
agricultural commodities may extend gains in the coming months
as a declining dollar and tight supplies boost demand, according
to Deutsche Bank AG.  A lot of agricultural commodities including corn, soybeans
and wheat are “still cheap” even after recent rallies,  Michael Lewis , global head of commodities research, said in an interview.
The surge in gold, which touched a record this week, is not yet
extreme, Lewis said yesterday in Tokyo.  Commodities have jumped this year on increased demand as
the U.S. emerged from recession and China, the world’s largest
metals user, led expansions in Asia. Copper, used in pipes and
wires, reached an all-time high today. Grains and soybeans have
rallied on higher demand, trade curbs and poor harvests.  “The safest long positions to have are in precious metals
and agriculture,” Lewis said in the interview, referring to
bets that prices will advance. For gold “the magnitude of this
rally to us is not extreme,” Lewis said.  Immediate-delivery gold has gained 28 percent in 2010 and
is set for a 10th annual gain as the dollar has dropped. The
precious metal touched a record $1,424.60 an ounce on Nov. 9.
Corn has gained 42 percent this year on speculation hot, dry
weather in August hurt crops in the U.S., the world’s biggest
exporter. Cotton reached a record $1.5195 a pound yesterday.  Gold Bulls  Lewis’s call for higher gold prices echoes forecasts from
other investors and analysts including  Jim Rogers , who has said
it may jump to $2,000 an ounce over the long term.  Myles Zyblock ,
chief institutional strategist at RBC Capital Markets, said last
month gold may soar to $3,800 within three years as it follows
the pattern of previous “investment manias.”  Gold would need to rise to more than $1,455 an ounce to
surpass its all-time high in real terms as measured by producer
prices, Lewis said, according to a copy of remarks to clients in
Tokyo today. Adjusted for changes in consumer prices, the metal
would need to advance to $1,880 an ounce to reach the level seen
at the beginning of the 1980s, he wrote in the remarks.  “The gold price would need to hit $2,100 to represent the
most powerful rally in percentage terms, and surpass the 1976-
1980 gold-price rally, when prices surged by just over 720
percent,” Lewis wrote in the speech.  Bond Buying  Gold has surged as the  U.S. currency  has dropped, investors
have boosted holdings through exchange-traded products and
central banks including India’s have added the metal to their
reserves. The dollar has fallen as the Federal Reserve expanded
a program to buy bonds to bolster growth in the largest economy.  The Dollar Index, which tracks the currency against six
major counterparts including the euro and the yen, traded today
at 77.625 compared with this year’s high of 88.708, which was
set in June.  “We expect investors’ flows into gold exchange-traded
funds will accelerate, as well as efforts by the Fed to devalue
the dollar,” Lewis wrote in the speech to clients. Exchange
traded funds, of ETFs, trade like stocks, enabling investors to
buy precious metals and other products without taking delivery.  Central-bank gold holdings rose by about 500 metric tons
last year and may rise again in 2010, the first time they have
been net buyers since 1988, Lewis said in the speech. On current
trends, central-bank buying in 2010 will surpass private-sector
inflows into physically backed ETFs, Lewis said in the speech.  Central banks in India, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and Mauritius
have bought gold this year and in 2009 from the International
Monetary Fund, which said last year it was putting 403.3 tons of
bullion up for sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jae Hur  in Tokyo at 
 jhur1@bloomberg.net ;
 Ichiro Suzuki  in Tokyo at 
 isuzuki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  