-- Gold, Silver Prices Rise as European-Debt Concerns Boost Demand for Haven
-- B y   P h a m - D u y   N g u y e n   a n d   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2010-11-11T20:09:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/gold-silver-prices-rise-as-european-debt-concerns-boost-demand-for-haven.html
Gold futures rose as Europe’s
mounting fiscal woes boosted the appeal of precious metals as a
haven. Silver prices climbed 2 percent.  Irish and Spanish government bonds slumped for the 13th
straight session, and the euro dropped on escalating concern
that countries will be forced to restructure their debt. Gold
has gained 28 percent this year, reaching a record $1,424.30 an
ounce on Nov. 9, on bets the Federal Reserve’s plan to buy back
more bonds will erode the value of the dollar.  “The re-emergence of sovereign risk should ultimately help
the yellow metal,”  Edel Tully , an analyst at UBS AG in London,
said in a report.  Gold futures for December delivery rose $4, or 0.3 percent,
to settle at $1,403.30 at 2 p.m. on the Comex in New York.  Silver futures for December delivery climbed 54 cents to
$27.405 an ounce. Yesterday, the metal plunged 7.1 percent, the
most since Dec. 1, 2008. On Nov. 9, the price reached $29.34, a
30-year high.  France backed Germany’s efforts to make investors share the
costs of restructuring sovereign debt. Spain’s economy stalled
and Ireland’s fiscal crisis drove down bank stocks. Gold priced
in euros reached a record in June, when investors were concerned
that Greece may go bankrupt.  ‘Inexorably Higher’  Dennis Gartman , an economist and the editor of the Suffolk,
Virginia-based Gartman Letter, recommended holding gold
denominated in other currencies to hedge against the relative
strength in the dollar.  “The trend is inexorably toward higher gold prices in euro
terms,” Gartman said. “The buyers of gold at the margin are
the sellers of euros, too.”  The dollar rose for the fifth straight session against a
basket of major currencies including the euro.  Gold also gained after a report showed China’s inflation
accelerated to a two-year high.  “Rising inflation is one of the single biggest factors
driving China’s appetite for gold,” Tully of UBS said.  Gold’s gains may be limited in the short term should the
dollar extend a rally, analysts at Bank of America Merrill Lynch
said today in a report.  “A recovery of the U.S. currency, for instance because of
concerns over debt in Europe, may remove price support to
metals,” Bank of America Merrill Lynch said.  Platinum futures for January delivery rose $7.90, or 0.5
percent, to $1,745.80 an ounce on the New York Mercantile
Exchange.  Palladium futures for December delivery rose $7.40, or 1.1
percent, to $704.15 an ounce.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Pham-Duy Nguyen  in Seattle at 
 pnguyen@bloomberg.net ;
 Nicholas Larkin  in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 