-- Grantham Says Fed Asset Purchases May Make Stocks `Dangerously Overpriced'
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2010-11-11T17:01:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/grantham-says-fed-asset-purchases-may-make-stocks-dangerously-overpriced-.html
     Nov. 11 (Bloomberg) -- Jeremy Grantham , chief investment
strategist at Grantham Mayo Van Otterloo & Co., said the Federal
Reserve’s attempt to boost the economy could push U.S. stocks to
a level where they will be “dangerously overpriced.”  The Fed’s decision to purchase Treasuries and flood markets
with cheap money will drive investors out of cash and encourage
them to speculate in stocks, which are already overvalued,
Grantham said in an interview with the CNBC cable television
network.  “The S&P is already overpriced and if you push it up
another 20 percent it becomes dangerously overpriced,” Grantham
said in the interview, which was posted today on the network’s
website. “In the not-too-distant future stocks will crack
again.”  The Fed’s policies also drive up commodity prices, create
fears of inflation and heighten tensions with countries
concerned that the decline in the value of the dollar will hurt
their exports, said Grantham, whose Boston-based firm manages
more than $94 billion. Grantham, 72, accurately predicted in
2000 that U.S. stocks would lose money in the coming decade.  Grantham said the fair value of the  Standard & Poor’s 50 0
is at 900. The index closed yesterday at 1218.71, having gained
17 percent since the Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  hinted in
August that the central bank may take new action to boost the
economy.  $600 Billion Program  At 900, the S&P Index would imply a price-to-earnings ratio
of 11.3, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The average
over the past 20 years is 20.6.  The Fed said on Nov. 3 that it will buy an additional $600
billion of Treasuries through June in a bid to bring down
borrowing costs and stimulate economic growth and job creation.
The decision bolstered stock and bond markets, and helped
leveraged-loan prices stage their longest rally since before
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis roiled markets in April.  Chinese, German and Brazilian officials have criticized the
Fed’s decision, saying it would drive down the dollar and fuel
speculative flows of capital that risk asset bubbles.  “We are in a currency war in a way,” Grantham said. “I
hope it stays mild.”  The Dollar Index, which tracks the dollar against the
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners including the euro
and yen, slid on Nov. 4 to the lowest level since December 2009.  Grantham said that technology stocks were overvalued in the
late 1990s and recommended investors avoid Japanese stocks in
the late 1980s, ahead of their plunge at the end of 1989.  By his own admission, his warnings often come as much as
two years too early.  “We win all the bets but we are horrifically early,” he
said in a February interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Stein in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at  