-- Greek Banks' ECB Borrowing Declines for Third Straight Month in October
-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2010-11-11T13:43:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/greek-banks-ecb-funding-declines-for-third-month-update1-.html
Greek banks’ reliance on European
Central Bank liquidity declined in October for a third straight
month, the country’s central bank said.  Lenders borrowed a total of 92.4 billion euros ($127.1
billion) in the ECB’s refinancing operations compared with 94.3
billion euros in September, according to a statement posted by
the Athens-based Bank of Greece on its  website today .  “It’s obviously positive in that it’s heading in the right
direction, but it’s not a big enough change” to confirm a
downward trend,  Daragh Quinn , a London-based analyst at Nomura
Holdings Inc., said by telephone today. “We have to wait and
see.”  Greek banks have been locked out of markets and reliant on
ECB funding amid concerns over their Greek government bond
holdings and fears of a sovereign default. Greece agreed to
austerity measures in May in exchange for 110 billion euros in
emergency loans from the European Union and International
Monetary Fund.  National Bank of Greece SA , the nation’s biggest lender,
announced this week that it secured 4.7 billion euros in
financing from international markets using Greek government
bonds to open so-called repo lines. Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  said this was “an extremely important step in
the Greek banking system regaining access” to capital markets.  EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA , the second-biggest lender, said
it has secured a total of about 3 billion euros in repo lines
with foreign banks using non-Greek bonds and has 1 billion euros
available to finance bonds or other activities.  Quinn said the slowing flow of credit to companies and
households may be a reason for banks’ reduced demand for ECB
funds.  Greek lending to households and businesses expanded an
annual 1.2 percent in September, slowing from 1.4 percent in the
previous month, according to central bank data released on Nov.
2.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Natalie Weeks  in Athens 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net ;
 Maria Petrakis  at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  