-- Greenspan Urges G-20 Adoption of Reserve Limits
-- B y   G a r f i e l d   R e y n o l d s
-- 2010-11-11T02:49:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/greenspan-urges-g-20-adoption-of-reserve-limits-to-promote-trade-growth.html
Alan Greenspan , former chairman of
the Federal Reserve, said Group of 20 leaders should act to
foster growth in global trade by agreeing to limit foreign-
exchange reserves and avoid capital-flow restrictions.  China’s accumulation of more than $2 trillion in reserves
as it limits the yuan’s gains and the U.S.’s pursuit of a weaker
dollar risk an increase in protectionism that would exacerbate a
recent slowdown in global trade, Greenspan wrote in a column
published by the Financial Times dated yesterday. The G-20
should set up rules through the International Monetary Fund that
would govern reserves and capital inflows, he wrote.  “We should discourage reserve accumulation whose sole
purpose is to suppress exchange rates for competitive export
advantage,” Greenspan wrote. “If the G-20 is serious in
pledging to sustain open multilateral trade and the
international financial system that fosters it, it should be
willing to forgo an element of sovereignty to achieve net gains
for all.”  The ratio of global exports to gross domestic product
recovered following the financial crisis then slowed again in
the third quarter, Greenspan said. Protectionism would
accelerate that slump, he said.  Leaders of the Group of 20 nations meeting in Seoul should
focus on action to promote “unfettered” global trade, he said.  “China has become a major global economic force in recent
years,” Greenspan said. “But it has not yet chosen to take on
the shared global obligations that its economic status
requires.”  Reserve Currency  President  Barack Obama  has found himself on the defensive
as world leaders gather in Seoul, with G-20 members disparaging
U.S. economic policies they say weaken the dollar and stoke hot-
money flows.  The Federal Reserve’s  decision  last week to pump $600
billion into world’s biggest economy has stolen the spotlight
away from China’s attempts to hold down its currency. Brazilian
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said yesterday that the Fed’s
move may inflate commodities prices and proposed the world move
away from using the dollar as the main reserve currency. Former
Chinese central bank governor  Dai Xianglong  this week faulted
the U.S. for adopting policies without regard for the dollar’s
global role.  China, the world’s biggest holder of foreign exchange, this
week raised bank reserve requirements as a means to stem capital
inflows that threaten to drive up stock and property prices.
South Korea may revive a 14 percent tax on domestic Treasury and
central bank bonds held by foreigners as early as January to
curb foreign-exchange volatility, a ruling party lawmaker said
this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garfield Reynolds in Sydney at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 