-- Guinea's Diallo Holds President Vote Lead With Half of Districts Counted
-- B y   O u g n a   C a m a r a
-- 2010-11-11T22:19:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/guinea-s-diallo-holds-president-vote-lead-with-half-of-districts-counted.html
Guinea’s  former Prime Minister
 Cellou Dalein Diallo  had his lead narrowed over opposition
leader  Alpha Conde  in votes counted from half of the country’s
electoral districts after this week’s presidential runoff.  Four days after the Nov. 7 vote, Diallo had 53.3 percent of
the ballots from 19 of 38 total districts and 13 overseas
embassies, according to Bloomberg calculations based on figures
given by Pathe Dieng, a spokesman for the country’s electoral
commission, in Conakry today. Conde polled 46.7 percent of the
votes, the data showed.  The commission has faced logistical problems in
transporting the results from the interior of the country to the
capital, said Siaka Toumany Sangare, the general from Mali who
was given charge of the commission last month.  The election is the first democratic transfer of power in
the country since it attained independence from France in 1958.
Diallo won the most votes in the June 27 first round, but not
enough to secure an outright victory in the world’s biggest
producer of bauxite, the key aluminum ingredient.  Both candidates have logged “significant numbers of
complaints” against the partial results, Sangare told reporters,
adding that the commission would “analyze” the protests. Before
the poll, the commission said the provisional winner would be
announced by tomorrow.  Observers from the African Union said Nov. 8 the voting was
held in a “serene and peaceful atmosphere,” while the Economic
Community of West African States said deficiencies of electoral
materials in some areas didn’t compromise the vote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ougna Camara in Conakry via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 