-- Gulf Diversification to Get Boost From Lower Dollar, Mannai Says
-- B y   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 2010-11-11T10:46:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/gulf-diversification-to-get-boost-from-lower-dollar-arab-fund-chief-says.html
A declining dollar will boost
competitiveness in the non-oil industries of the Persian Gulf,
prompting countries in the region that peg their currencies to
the greenback to speed up economic diversification, the head of
the  Arab Monetary Fund  said.  “If you ask me whether the declining dollar benefits
diversification away from oil, I will say yes,” Jassim al-
Mannai said in an interview yesterday in Abu Dhabi. “It will
encourage the diversification and it will give more
competitiveness" to other industries and agriculture, he said.  The  Gulf Cooperation Council  nations, except Kuwait, peg
their currencies to the dollar. Al-Mannai said he wouldn’t
encourage any country in the region to abandon the dollar peg,
regardless of currency fluctuations.  ‘‘Revaluation prevents you from being competitive in the
market,’’ he said. ‘‘Revaluation also means that whatever
savings reserve you’ve got it will be sacked in no time.’’  The dollar is down almost 11 percent against the euro since
the start of July. The greenback slid versus 15 of its 16 major
counterparts last week after the Federal Reserve said it will
buy $600 billion of U.S. Treasuries through June to avert
deflation and reduce unemployment.  ‘‘I would not expect that the GCC should have the same
policy of quantitative easing as the U.S.,’’ al-Mannai said.
‘‘We have other means, other policies that help the particular
situation of the GCC, like activating the economy through
increasing public spending.’’  Regional Growth  The International Monetary Fund said on Oct. 6 that
economic growth in the Middle East and North Africa may
accelerate to 5.1 percent from 4.1 percent this year.  Companies across the six-member GCC struggled during the
global financial crisis as banks curtailed lending and debt
markets dried up, leading to defaults and restructurings.
Challenges to the region include reviving credit growth and
easing concerns over the ‘‘health of the corporate sector’’
following defaults in Gulf countries, the IMF said Oct. 6.  Al-Mannai said the GCC has learned important lessons from
the crisis, having initially failed to crack down on speculative
investment.  ‘‘The movement of hot money from outside into the region
has to do with the problem we have faced,’’ said al-Mannai. ‘‘We
have to make credit growth reasonable so not to encourage
bubbles and speculation.’’  The Arab Monetary Fund, a subsidiary of the 22-nation Arab
League, was created in 1976 with the objective of correcting the
balance of payments of its members, improving Arab monetary
cooperation and encouraging the development of regional
financial markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vivian Salama  in Abu Dhabi at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 