-- Iceland Starts Debt Talks on Proposals Including 15.5% Relief
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2010-11-11T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/iceland-starts-mortgage-debt-talks-after-panel-says-15-5-relief-is-option.html
Iceland ’s lawmakers, banks and other
groups will today start talks on the extent of debt relief to be
given to households after a team of experts put forward 11
proposals including forgiving 15.5 percent of mortgage debts.  Ideas presented yesterday by a panel with representatives
from the government, opposition, pension funds and banks include
limiting debts to 110 percent of property values or a step-by-
step reduction of obligations to 90 percent of asset values. The
government could also take over non-performing debt from
lenders, not including the state-backed Housing Financing Fund,
and then reduce debts through arbitration.  Prime Minister  Johanna Sigurdardottir ’s Social Democrat,
Left Green government is trying to assist families hit by last
year’s 20 percent drop in real, disposable incomes and prevent
the 39 percent of households whose mortgage debts exceed the
value of their properties from losing their homes. The
initiative follows protests last month in which as many as 8,000
Icelanders demonstrated outside the Parliament demanding debt
relief.  All the country’s lenders have experienced an increase in
the non-payment of loans, the prime minister’s office said in a
statement on its website yesterday. The non-payment rate at
banks, whereby debtors fail to service their obligations 90 days
after a payment falls due, is at 10.4 percent with the banks,
6.4 percent with the  Housing Finance Fund  and 4 percent with
pension funds, according to the statement.  HFF lending accounted for 64 percent of outstanding
mortgage-backed debt at the end of June, according to Iceland’s
 Financial Supervisory Authority .  Interest Groups  The pension funds, which hold much of the mortgage-backed
bonds under discussion, will block any proposal that hurts their
assets and forces them to reduce retirement payments,  Hrafn Magnusson , the managing director of the  Icelandic Pension Funds
Association , said in an Oct. 14 interview.  The Interest Group of the Homes , which represents
households demanding debt relief, has said lenders should write
off as much as 220 billion kronur ($1.97 billion) in mortgages
to help homeowners.  Such a debt reduction would wipe out the impact of consumer
price increases on the inflation-linked debt, according to
Fridrik O. Fridriksson, chairman of the group.  Prices soared 41 percent from January 2007 through
September this year,  Statistics Iceland  data show. Real wages
fell 10.1 percent from the beginning of 2007 through August this
year, the office said.  Foreclosure Moratorium  Sigurdardottir last month extended by five months a
moratorium on foreclosures. Central bank Governor  Mar Gudmundsson  said in a Nov. 8 interview that political
discussions “constantly implicitly promising something more”
have “somewhat impaired” the incentive of households to enter
existing restructuring programs needed to revive the economy.  Iceland’s banks are state-controlled successors to the
failed lenders that brought down the economy two years ago. The
resolution committees of  Kaupthing Bank hf  and  Glitnir Bank hf 
agreed on behalf of creditors to take stakes in the new lenders,
Arion Bank hf and Islandsbanki hf, to cover part of their
claims.  The government holds an 81.33 percent stake in NBI hf, the
successor to  Landsbanki Islands hf . The remaining stake is
controlled by Landsbanki’s resolution committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Omar R. Valdimarsson  in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  