-- Lichtenstein’s $43 Million Pouting Redhead Helps Revive Market
-- B y   L i n d s a y   P o l l o c k   a n d   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2010-11-11T06:25:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/lichtenstein-s-pouty-redhead-sells-for-record-42-6-million-at-christie-s.html
Roy Lichtenstein ’s 1964 painting of
a pouting redhead sold for an artist record $42.6 million last
night at  Christie’s International  in New York, as buyers stuck
with 1960s pop art to sustain a market recovery.  Lichtenstein’s “Ohhh...Alright...” soared past his
previous auction peak of $16.3 million, to help the closely held
auctioneer reach $272.9 million in sales for the evening, its
biggest total in the category since May 2008 and nearly four
times last year’s result. The tally brings the sum for the
three-night autumn series of postwar art auctions, including
sales by rivals Phillips de Pury & Co. and Sotheby’s, to $632
million, almost triple the $216 million a year ago.  “The patient has made a full recovery,” said New York
art adviser Stefano Basilico. “Not that we are back to 2007, to
those crazy levels, but we are back to healthy, good shape.”  The two-hour, 75-lot sale left collectors complaining about
the long evening, but that didn’t hurt results as 93 percent of
lots found buyers. Auction records tumbled for six artists,
including abstract painter Mark Grotjahn, mobile maker  Alexander Calder , and canvas stainer Morris Louis. Americans dominated
buying, taking home 63 percent of lots, according to Christie’s.  The packed salesroom included familiar power names like
Princess Gloria Thurn und Taxis and  Warhol Foundation  President
Joel Wachs. Actress  Kate Hudson  watched from a back corner,
decked out in a brown velvet hat and leopard-spotted coat.  “It’s my first sale and it was totally fascinating,” she
said. “A friend of mine was selling something.”  Single Bidder  The top lot was Lichtenstein’s comic-strip-inspired
rendering, once owned by actor and art collector  Steve Martin 
and sold by casino magnate  Steve Wynn . Though the price tag was
huge, a single bidder, who had contractually agreed in advance
to bid, was the lone interested party.  Similarly anticlimactic was the result for the evening’s
second-highest priced trophy:  Andy Warhol ’s six-foot tall 1962
painting of a soup can and giant can opener that sold for $23.9
million, well below the $30 million to $50 million estimate.  One Warhol collector quipped that the seminal work with a
somewhat awkward composition was “too much opener, not enough
can.” It was sold by Seattle collector  Barney Ebsworth , whose
charitable foundation will use sale proceeds to construct a
chapel by Japanese architect  Tadao Ando . Ebsworth acquired the
painting from a dealer in 1986, the same year it sold at
Christie’s for $264,000.  ‘Too Many Warhols’  Christie’s sale, which fell in the middle of its pre-
auction estimate range of $237 million to $346 million, was the
third in a series of New York contemporary evening auctions this
week dominated by Warhol.  “We dealers thought: Here were too many Warhols,” said
New York-based  Christophe Van de Weghe . “But it was the exact
opposite effect.”  On Nov. 8, Warhol’s depiction of actress  Elizabeth Taylor 
stunned dealers by fetching $63 million at Phillips de Pury, far
above its $40 million estimate. The next night the pop artist
from Pittsburgh topped Sotheby’s contemporary sale with a $35
million Coke bottle.  Last night, Christie’s sold 15 of the artist’s works,
including portraits of  Jacqueline Kennedy ,  Marilyn Monroe  and a
pink dollar sign that fetched $5.1 million, twice the low
estimate.  Deflated Balloon  Among the few disappointments were a  Jasper Johns  painting
that didn’t sell and a  Jeff Koons  sculpture. Koons’s shiny 1995-
2000 “Balloon Flower (Blue),” went for $16.9 million to New
York’s L & M Arts. A hot-pink version from the same series,
“Balloon Flower (Magenta)” sold at the market’s peak in 2008
for a then-record $25.8 million. Last night’s seller was the
 Daimler Art Collection , which had installed the work in Berlin’s
Potsdamer Platz.  The auction continued German painter  Gerhard Richter ’s
winning week. The 1982 photorealist “Zwei Kerzen” went for $13
million, near the low end of the $12 million to $16 million
estimate. The artist created the pair of lit candles when he
turned 50 and considered his own mortality.  One of the evening’s cheaper Warhols hailed from the estate
of actor  Dennis Hopper . The blue streaked portrait of Hopper in
a cowboy hat was one of the few lots to sell for under $1
million, attaining a hammer price of $962,500 before commissions.  “He’s a very good artist and very safe,” dealer Hugo
Nathan of Dickinson Roundell Inc. said of Warhol.  Christie’s charges buyers 25 percent of the hammer price up
to $50,000, plus 20 percent from $50,000 to $1 million, and 12
percent above $1 million.  To contact the reporter on the story:
 Lindsay Pollock  in New York at  lindsaypollock@yahoo.com ; or
 Philip Boroff  in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 