-- Tiger Woods Trails Leaders by Four Shots at Australian Masters
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2010-11-11T06:58:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/tiger-woods-trails-first-round-leaders-by-four-shots-at-australian-masters.html
Tiger Woods  opened his  Australian
Masters  title defense with a 2-under par first round that leaves
him four shots behind the three leaders.  Woods, the world’s No. 2-ranked golfer, recovered from an
early bogey at the Victoria Golf Club to hit three birdies at
the 6,886-yard (6,297 meter) course in Melbourne. He said his
putting let him down after he missed just two fairways.  “That was probably the highest score I could have shot
today,” Woods told reporters. “I didn’t make anything. I kept
leaving every putt short, my speed was just slightly off, not
hard enough.”  Woods, 34, hasn’t won since his two-shot victory at nearby
Kingston Heath 12 months ago and faces the prospect of ending
2010 without a title to his name. His best finishes were at the
Masters Tournament and U.S. Open, where he tied for fourth.  Less than two weeks after winning the 2009 Australian
Masters, Woods crashed into a fire hydrant outside his Florida
home. The single-car accident led to an admission by the 14-time
major champion that he repeatedly cheated on his wife, causing
the eventual end of his marriage to  Elin Nordegren .  He lost sponsors including Accenture Plc,  AT&T Inc.  and
 Procter & Gamble Co. ’s Gillette razors, while his record five-
year run atop the  Official World Golf Ranking  ended last week
when England’s  Lee Westwood  took over as No. 1.  Woods entered today’s opening round as the bookmakers’
favorite for the tournament, which also features seven-time U.S.
PGA Tour winner  Sergio Garcia  of Spain, 2006 U.S. Open champion
 Geoff Ogilvy  and fellow Australian  Robert Allenby , who are 1-
over and 2-over, respectively. Garcia hit three bogeys and a
double bogey in a 2-over-par 73.  Early Start  After teeing off at 7.27 a.m. from the 10th hole, Woods
took 19 putts on his first nine holes and needed to sink a 7-
foot putt for par on the final hole to avoid his second bogey.  While he left several putts short, Woods said his ball-
striking was the best in an opening round since deciding in
August to remodel his swing with the help of coach Sean Foley.  “I certainly have not hit the ball like this first
round,” he said. “I’ve played better on stretches for six,
seven, eight holes, but nothing like this for the entire day. I
really hit it good.”  Australians Adam Bland and Alistair Presnell, who have
shared rooms on the second-tier Nationwide Tour in the U.S. for
the past two years, are tied atop the  leaderboard  with
countryman Daniel Gaunt after 6-under-par rounds of 65.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Baynes  at the Victoria Golf Club at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  