-- Milan's Banks Failed to Shop Around for Quotes, Prosecution Witness Says
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2010-11-11T13:34:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/milan-s-banks-failed-to-shop-around-for-quotes-prosecution-witness-says.html
The four banks on trial for fraud
for misselling derivatives to the City of Milan failed to shop
around for competing quotes that would have made the cost of the
swaps more transparent, a prosecution witness said.  Gianluca Fusai, a finance professor at the University of
East Piedmont, told a court in Milan yesterday that the banks,
which had been hired to arrange a bond sale and subsequently
proposed swaps to adjust the interest payments on the bonds,
acted as consultants to the city. As such, the securities firms
should have found the best swap prices for the client, he said.  The lenders “didn’t examine the cost of doing the swaps
with other banks,” Fusai said. A range of bids for the
derivatives would have brought transparency, he said after more
than 10 hours of questioning over three hearings since Oct. 27.  Deutsche Bank AG , Depfa Bank Plc,  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and
UBS AG are accused of misleading Milan and earning 101 million
euros ($139 million) in hidden fees from the transactions. The
banks first sold interest-rate swaps to the city in 2005 on 1.7
billion euros of 30-year bonds. The banks deny the allegations.  Italian municipalities are required to sell repayment
bonds, or create a payment plan, if they sell a so-called bullet
bond which is repaid at maturity.  Fusai said that Milan should have considered the option of
selling repayment bonds, which wouldn’t have required a swap.
Local governments including the regions of Lazio, Sicily and
Sardinia have successfully sold the bonds, some with durations
of as long as 30 years, he said. Instead, Milan sold a bullet
bond with an amortizing swap arranged by the banks, he said.  ‘Partial Picture’  Fusai said the banks charged Milan 52 million euros at the
start of the swap. He said that so-called implicit cost marked
the difference between the city’s and the banks’ credit risks.
He didn’t account for the costs the banks faced in arranging the
transactions in his calculation, he said.  Typically, firms charge a spread on the so-called mid-
market price, the court heard. The larger the nominal amount of
the swap, the larger the spread the market typically applies on
a trade, Fusai said, indicating that this may have reduced the
banks’ profit from the transaction in this case.  Milan is making money on the transactions and has received
about 30 million euros by swapping the fixed rate on its
borrowings for a variable rate with Deutsche Bank, the bank’s
lawyer said at a hearing on Nov. 3. The city has a mark-to-
market gain on the contract at current prices, said the lawyer.  ‘Partial Picture’  “This is a partial picture,” Fusai said. “It doesn’t
reflect the risks assumed.”  Fusai said he made an error in calculating the swaps’ mark-
to-market value as of October 2007 in the written analysis he
submitted to the court. The city is receiving money today and
has pushed back its borrowings, said Fusai.  “We’re not interested in the mark-to-market at a generic
date but when the contract is agreed,” he said.  Officials for Deutsche Bank and JPMorgan declined to
comment. Officials for UBS and Depfa didn’t have an immediate
comment.  Lawyers for UBS on Nov. 3 cited a study the  International
Swaps and Derivatives Association  published last month in which
62 percent of respondents said prices they receive from dealers
are competitive. Eighty-four percent of users typically get a
range of quotes before executing an interest-rate swap and 67
percent use data vendors such as Bloomberg LP, Bloomberg News’s
parent company.  The lawyers showed a June 23, 2005, letter that was faxed
to the city with spreads based on the then prevailing prices,
and said the banks gave municipal officials the opportunity to
study Bloomberg data at UBS’s offices in London, when the deal
was struck the following day, they said.  Had the city obtained a range of quotes, the problem
wouldn’t have existed, Fusai said at a Nov. 3 hearing.  The banks have said that because Milan already had publicly
traded securities under Italian law the city should be
considered a market professional and expected to conduct its own
assessment of the risks and costs associated with a transaction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elisa Martinuzzi  in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  