-- Millionaire Punks Splurge at Paris's Royal Monceau Hotel: A. Craig Copetas
-- B y   A .   C r a i g   C o p e t a s
-- 2010-11-11T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/millionaire-punks-splurge-at-paris-s-royal-monceau-hotel-a-craig-copetas.html
Let’s say that you have $30 million
of assets to invest.  And that you may require the skills of a Paris hotel’s
dedicated art concierge to plan your gallery foray while dining
on lobster and caviar. Globetrotting multimillionaires are used
to such offers. Now the folks whom private bankers label “high
net-worth individuals” have a place to call their absurdist own
on the well-heeled Avenue Hoche.  It’s  Le Royal Monceau Raffles  hotel, a festival of
delicious foolishness best digested from a leather banquette in
La Cuisine restaurant.  Management hails the experience “Bourgeois Punkitude,” a
moniker that rose from the rubble of a 2008 demolition party,
where 1,500 people -- hammers and crowbars in hand -- descended
on the 150-room hotel to begin its two-year transformation from
grand doyen to luxurious hipster.  “I want people to have the opportunity to eat with their
fingers,” says head chef Laurent Andre. He personally offers
guests a razor-sharp choice of German, Japanese, French or
Italian carving knives to slice into his 35 euro ($48) choice
Limousin veal filets wading in a blanquette sauce and 35 euro
lamb cutlets dripping with parsley butter.  Austere Bling  If the bankers are right, the 48-year-old chef at the hotel
that  Madonna  and  Dwight Eisenhower  favored above all other posh
Paris bivouacs has the makings of a superstar among those
seeking to embrace the neo-bling of the New Austerity.  As a recent report that Societe Generale SA dispatched to
its private-banking clients tells it, those with $30 million
worth of investment capital will continue to spend as much as
they did before the economic decline. Their habits will change
“in more subtle ways because the recession has caused them to
reassess what they really value.”  Subtle reassessments of what the rich and powerful want has
been the Royal Monceau’s hallmark since the place first opened
in 1928, when the restaurant overnight emerged as the panache
hideaway for the likes of  Josephine Baker  and  Coco Chanel . Hotel
records indicate that frequent guest  Walt Disney  loved the place
where  Winston Churchill  retreated to momentarily isolate himself
from the reality of postwar Europe.  Indeed, SS Panzer Division commander Michael Wittmann
valued a free Royal Monceau meal over his armored column being
firebombed on the night hotel manager Erich Gueme
“spontaneously invited us to a lavish supper at the hotel’s
expense,” according to an entry in Wittmann’s war-time diary.  Saved by Dinner  “A guard with a loaded submachine gun was left in each
Tiger” is how Wittmann critiqued his seafood extravaganza on
June 8, 1944. “On the far side of Paris, vehicles from our
battalion told us that the unit had been carpet-bombed. As a
result of the supper, we escaped the bombing.”  Six decades later, Royal Monceau’s “Vague a l’Iode” or
wave-of-iodine feast of lobster, sashimi, oysters, Osietre
caviar and crustacean soup costs 85 euros, superbly accompanied
by a rare and reasonably priced 170 euro bottle of 1999 Corton-
Charlemagne from  Domaine Rapet .  The sound and aroma of spent cordite is long gone, replaced
by the visual explosions and witty fusions of designer  Philippe Starck . He has transformed the hotel where negotiators hammered
out the Israeli Declaration of Independence into a colorful and
comforting playground of chairs upholstered in African beads and
refrigerator-white ceilings splotched with errant brushstrokes
snatched from the pallets of  Keith Haring  and  Roy Lichtenstein .  Starck rates the result “artistic, delicate, poetic;” the
chicken special -- a roasted Bresse broiler with “bikini”
vegetables -- costs 140 euros.  No Amuse-Bouche  In a city where trendy chefs move among restaurants like
free-agent point guards in the  U.S. National Basketball
Association , the  Alain Ducasse -trained Andre says his primary
ambition is never to serve an amuse-bouche and always dodge
falling Michelin stars.  “I want people to eat what they choose,” says Andre, the
son of a farming family from the Jura Mountains of eastern
France. “It’s best to go with what I know, and I know French
food.”  Isolating the French portion of La Cuisine’s artsy menu
nonetheless requires subtitles. Meals are promoted with B-movie
Hollywood marquees such as “The Fresh Is Tender” and “The Sea
Dances.” Then comes the cast of courses: “Fresh,” starring a
28 euro teaspoonful of Scottish langoustines; “Hot,” featuring
a classic yet hard-to-find “vol au vent” of domestic frog,
Bresse chicken and mushrooms at 28 euros; “Sea,” with a cameo
appearance of gambas, and “Earth,” where the luscious 38 euro
pigeon wins the Oscar for Best Performance by an Edible Bird in
Balsamic Vinegar.  ‘Art Concierge’  Stick with “Earth” and “Hot.” La Cuisine is a surreal
deal that often gets lost in a translation best left to Domoina
de Brantes, Royal Monceau’s “art concierge,” who during the
day provides a running commentary on live art-auction video
piped into the hotel’s library.  As for the laborious dessert assignment of trawling through
16 possible 18 euro Napoleons concocted and shipped in by the
bakers of Pierre Herme, it’s best to forgo the “millefeuille”
pastry for a plate of cheese and another round with Burgundy-
born sommelier Manuel Peyrondet.  Peyrondet’s 82-year-old cave of 35,000 vintage bottles
arguably offers some of the best-priced wines in any Paris
restaurant. New Austerity deals include a 1989  Chateau Cantenac
Brown Margaux  for 120 euros and a honey-fresh 2008 Mersault
Tessons from Domaine Michel Bouzereau, at 85 euros.  Still, some rituals of the rich are less susceptible to
Bourgeois Punkitude: The price tag on the 1991 Domaine de la
Romanee-Conti La Tache remains firm at 1,600 euros.  Le Royal Monceau Raffles, 37 Avenue Hoche, 75008 Paris.
Information: +33-1-4299-8800 or  http://www.leroyalmonceau.com .  To contact the writer on the story:
A.  Craig Copetas  in Paris at 
 ccopetas@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 