-- IMG's Ted Forstmann Questioned by Anti-Corruption Unit About Federer Bet
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2010-11-11T18:15:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/img-s-ted-forstmann-questioned-by-anti-corruption-unit-about-federer-bet.html
Ted Forstmann , chairman of sports
management company IMG Worldwide Inc., has been questioned by
tennis’s anti-corruption body about placing a bet on his client
 Roger Federer .  The unit “has contacted Mr. Forstmann about this matter
and made it clear that since January 2009 he has been covered by
the provisions of the game’s anti-corruption code,” Mark
Harrison, a spokesman for the London-based Tennis Integrity Unit,
said in an e-mail today.  “Mr Forstmann has confirmed that he understands and
accepts this and advised that he has not gambled on tennis since
the uniform tennis anti-corruption program came into effect from
January 2009,” Harrison said.  Forstmann said he did nothing wrong in betting $40,000 on
Federer to beat  Rafael Nadal  in the 2007 French Open tennis
final, though he regrets making the wager.  “It was bad judgment,” Forstmann said in an interview.
“I would have been rooting for him just as hard had I had no
money on him at all.”  Forstmann is the chief executive officer of IMG Worldwide
Inc., the sports agency that represents athletes including
golfer  Tiger Woods , top-ranked Nadal and Federer, who yesterday
criticized the gambling. The bet may form part of a lawsuit that
accuses Forstmann of using company funds to cover gambling
losses, the New York Times reported.  Forstmann’s wager was made before the International Tennis
Federation’s anti-corruption program came into force in 2009.
Those rules prevent any “covered person” from placing bets on
the outcome of a tennis match.  A “covered person” refers to a player, related person
such as a coach, trainer, therapist, physician, management
representative, agent, family member, tournament guest, or
business associate as well as tournament support personnel,
according to the ITF.  The Tennis Integrity Unit, headed by former Scotland Yard
detective  Jeff Rees , was set up in 2008 after suspicious betting
on a match in August 2007 involving Russia’s  Nikolay Davydenko ,
then ranked No. 4 on the ATP Tour. More than a dozen players
said publicly that year that they had been approached to throw
matches and the tour banned three Italian players for betting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  