-- InBev Takeover Dilutes Loyalty to Anheuser-Busch in St. Louis
-- B y   A n g i e   L a u   a n d   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2010-11-11T18:27:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/inbev-takeover-dilutes-anheuser-busch-loyalty-as-st-louis-sips-craft-beer.html
St. Louis Cardinals fans are seeing
something they never expected at Busch Stadium: craft beer
flowing beside the Budweiser taps.  Until a couple of months ago,  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV’s 
namesake baseball park allowed Schlafly draft beer to be sold at
just one concession stand. Now  eight sell  it.  “It’s like people are finally realizing that there is more
than just a Bud,” said Mark Schwartz, 53, a season-ticket
holder at the St. Louis Rams’ Edward Jones Dome, where  Schlafly 
debuted for football fans this season. “It’s great to root on
your hometown team with a hometown beer.”  Generations of local loyalty is eroding in the wake of
InBev’s 2008  hostile takeover  of Anheuser-Busch -- a St. Louis
tradition since 1852, when it was called  Bavarian . For Schlafly
and other small breweries in the city, it’s an opportunity to
exploit the  increased  interest in craft beers nationwide.  Drinking Bud in  St. Louis  used to be like driving a Ford or
Chrysler in Detroit. Bars, restaurants and catering companies
didn’t want to offend the company or its fans by offering other
brands, said Mike Sweeney, a systems administrator and former
part-time tour guide at Schlafly who runs a beer blog called STL
Hops.  Then Leuven, Belgium-based  InBev  bought Anheuser-Busch in
November 2008 and by Christmas had trimmed about 1,400 U.S.
jobs, three-quarters of them in St. Louis. They ranged from
executives to brewery workers in a city where the baseball
stadium carries the name of Anheuser-Busch’s founding family.  Team Ties  The brewer owned the Cardinals for more than four decades
before selling the team in 1996. For years, the ballpark
organist played the Budweiser theme song at games.  “Now there’s a bit more ambivalence to AB: They’re just
another major world company,” said Sweeney, 31, whose three-
year-old  website  has attracted 50,000 visitors and a million
page views in the past six months. “You don’t have that same
hometown pride.”  The AB InBev unit’s market share and number of tap handles
in St. Louis are stable and its share in professional sports
stadiums remains “exceptionally strong,” said  Dave Peacock ,
president of the U.S. unit,  Anheuser-Busch .  “We have a strong bond with St. Louis and the people here,
and they return the sentiment,” Peacock said. “We never take
any beer sale for granted, whether it’s in St. Louis or anywhere
across the United States.”  Craft Surge  Craft beers are a growing trend everywhere, he said,
pointing out that Anheuser’s Shock Top wheat beer and AmberBock
are sold at Busch Stadium and Edward Jones Dome.  The Brewers Association, a Boulder, Colorado-based trade
group for craft and microbreweries, calls such beers from major
brewers “domestic specialties.” It defines craft beers as
those less than 25 percent-owned by a large brewer and producing
less than 2 million barrels a year.  U.S. sales of craft beers increased 13 percent in the year
ended Oct. 3, according to Chicago-based researcher  SymphonyIRI
Group . Domestic premiums such as Bud Light, the country’s best-
selling beer, declined almost 3 percent.  Businesses that serve beer see a turn in customer
attitudes. Chris Sommers opened Pi Pizzeria in St. Louis six
months before the InBev takeover and offered only microbrews as
a way to stand out.  “People were really angry with us in the beginning,” said
Sommers, 34, whose restaurant now features Schlafly Pi Common, a
custom-made brew. “After the takeover, that all changed. The
anger shifted.”  No More Grief  Customers “come into our restaurant now and don’t even
give us grief anymore, because they don’t think of AB as
local,” he said.  Some competitors come from Anheuser-Busch’s  own ranks . Its
stock even financed one entrepreneur.  Urban Chestnut Brewing Co.  was started by Florian Kuplent,
a brewmaster who helped create Shock Top, and David Wolfe, 43,
who was senior director of consumer strategy and innovation.
Both left Anheuser-Busch earlier this year.  Kuplent, 36, said he doesn’t see himself as a serious
challenger to his former employer.  “The more specialty brewers there are, the better it is
for everybody,” he said. “There is space for everybody.”  Tom Schlafly, 62, used  Anheuser-Busch stock  as part of the
collateral for a loan to start Schlafly. He and partner Dan
Kopman founded the brewery two decades ago.  Last Laugh  “They laughed at us when we first opened in 1991 -- a
microbrewery in St. Louis, home of the Bud?” said Kopman, 49,
who bills Schlafly Bottleworks as “St. Louis’s first new
production brewery since the end of Prohibition.”  Local restaurant and bar owners often spouted the same
refrain when Kopman first tried to persuade them to serve his
brands: They already stocked all the beers.  “Of course, what they meant by ‘all’ was that they served
the full lineup of Anheuser-Busch beers, and not just Bud and
Bud Light,” Kopman said. AB InBev also makes Bud Ice, Michelob
and Busch brands.  Kopman said Schlafly expects to sell about 35,500 barrels
this year, up from 9,600 in 2003.  AB InBev shares have more than doubled to $43.72 from
$18.25 since Nov. 18, 2008, the day it closed the Anheuser-Busch
purchase.  Yet St. Louis tastes continue to shift. Carleen Kramer,
vice president of  Catering St. Louis , said clients’ preferences
have changed since the company was founded 30 years ago. It
served only Anheuser-Busch products because that’s all people
wanted to drink.  Brother Bud  “Your brother didn’t have a job if you didn’t drink AB
beer,” said Kramer, 57. “It was about loyalty.’  That changed after the takeover led employees in St. Louis
to worry about their jobs. Catering St. Louis has increased the
proportion of Schlaflys it stocks.  “It’s given people permission to try something new,”
Kramer said. “Schlafly is the little guy, the underdog.”  Delaware North Cos ., which holds the beer-vending
concession license at Busch Stadium and Edward Jones Dome,
noticed the growing interest in Schlaflys and decided to give
them a try.  “We wanted to see if that product line had legs,” said
Dan Fetcho, regional director for the Buffalo, New York-based
vendor’s Sportservice subsidiary. “Schlafly is a local flavor
that has become more and more mainstream.”  Boutique Brew  That popularity may not carry the brand beyond its boutique
status. Brewers whose output exceeds 60,000 barrels a year are
required to pay the same $18-a-barrel excise tax as the world’s
biggest brewers, according to the  Brewers Association , which is
working to get the law changed.  For now, small brewers are growing one tap at a time, in
venues such as the Edward Jones Dome, where Christopher Field
manages the only beer stand carrying Schlafly. It’s in Section
104, near a corner of the north end zone.  “People were coming from the other side of the dome just
to buy it,” he said, noting the new preference as fans rushed
to place orders during last call at a recent game. “People were
saying, ‘All I want is one more Schlafly.’”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Angie Lau  in Chicago at 
 alau42@bloomberg.net ;
 Duane D. Stanford  in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net . 