-- India Food Inflation Slows to One-Year Low, Easing Interest Rate Pressure
-- B y   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 2010-11-11T07:45:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/india-food-inflation-slows-to-one-year-low-easing-interest-rate-pressure.html
India’s food inflation slowed to a
one-year low, reducing pressure on the central bank to raise
interest rates.  An  index  measuring wholesale prices of agricultural
products including lentils, rice and vegetables, and compiled by
the commerce ministry, rose 12.3 percent in the week ended Oct.
30 from a year earlier, according to a statement in New Delhi
today. It gained 12.85 percent the previous week.  The decline in food prices will help Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  refrain from raising borrowing costs in the next three
months. Higher rates in India may attract more capital flows
from abroad, boosting liquidity and inflationary pressures, as
central banks from Japan to the U.S. provide additional stimulus
to support growth.  “Food inflation is likely to come down further in the
coming weeks as increased crop supplies hit the market,”  Jay Shankar , chief economist at Religare Capital Markets Ltd. in
Mumbai, said before the report.  Subbarao this month increased the repurchase rate to 6.25
percent from 6 percent and the reverse repurchase rate to 5.25
percent from 5 percent, boosting the benchmark for the sixth
time this year. He said the central bank probably won’t tighten
monetary policy further in the next three months.  The Reserve Bank of India is scheduled to announce its next
monetary policy decisions on Dec. 16 and Jan. 25.  The U.S. Federal Reserve on Nov. 3 said it will buy an
additional $600 billion of Treasuries through June, and left
unchanged its pledge to keep interest rates low for an
“extended period.” The Fed’s target for overnight interbank
loans is zero to 0.25 percent, where it has been since December
2008.  The Bank of Japan last month unveiled a 5 trillion-yen ($61
billion) fund that will buy government and corporate debt, as
well as invest in real-estate investment trusts and exchange-
traded funds.  Food prices in India are declining after the country
received the heaviest rainfall in three years in the June to
September monsoon season, helping spur farm production.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tushar Dhara  in New Delhi at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net . 