-- Rupee Halts Two-Day Advance as G-20 Struggles to Reach Agreement on Trade
-- B y   A n u r a g   J o s h i
-- 2010-11-11T13:16:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/indian-rupee-advances-on-speculation-g-20-will-announce-accord-at-meeting.html
India’s rupee halted a two-day
advance as the  Group of 20  struggled to reach an agreement that
will allow the value of their currencies to be determined more
by the market.  Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper said he’s “not so
sure” a deal will be reached by the end of the proceedings of
the two-day summit in Seoul that started today. Last month,
finance chiefs of the nations agreed to refrain from competitive
devaluations and let the currencies reflect economic
fundamentals. U.S. President Barack Obama and his Chinese
counterpart Hu Jintao spent “the bulk” of an 80-minute meeting
discussing exchange rates today, according to White House Press
Secretary Robert Gibbs.  “Sentiment was slightly nervous because of a lack of
accord at G-20,” said  Roy Paul , Mumbai-based deputy general
manager at Federal Bank Ltd. “Rupee will be under pressure
tomorrow.”  The currency was little changed at 44.3075 per dollar as of
the 5 p.m. close in Mumbai, compared with 44.3050 yesterday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It has gained 5 percent
this year as overseas investors poured a net $28.5 billion into
Indian equities, driving the benchmark  Sensex  index to a record
close last week.  Obama said this week the strength of the dollar rests on
sustaining the U.S. expansion. The U.S. Dollar Index, which
tracks the currency against those of six major trading partners,
climbed 0.4 percent.  Offshore forwards indicate the rupee will trade at 45.04 in
three months, compared with expectations of 44.99 yesterday.
Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and
date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anurag Joshi  in Mumbai 
 ajoshi53@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  