-- Indian Oil Surpasses Reliance Industries as Nation’s Top Refiner
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2010-11-11T08:46:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/indian-oil-surpasses-reliance-as-nation-s-top-refiner-after-capacity-rise.html
Indian Oil Corp.  surpassed  Reliance
Industries Ltd.  as the biggest refiner in the country after
increasing capacity at a plant in north India by 25 percent to
15 million metric tons a year.  State-run Indian Oil restarted a crude distillation unit at
Panipat following the expansion a “couple of days ago,”
 Basavaraj Ningappa Bankapur , director of refineries, said by
telephone today. “We will gradually start all the units and the
refinery will start using its full capacity soon.”  The combined crude  processing capacity  of Indian Oil and
its majority-owned unit before the Panipat expansion was 61.7
million tons a year, according to the company’s website. The
additional 3 million tons will take the capacity to 64.7 million
tons, or 1.29 million barrels a day.  Reliance Industries can turn  1.24 million barrels  a day of
crude into fuels at its two adjacent plants in Gujarat state,
the world’s biggest refining complex at a single location.  India’s crude processing capacity is rising as the fastest
pace of economic growth in 2 1/2 years drives demand for fuels
to run vehicles and factories. Demand for cars in the South
Asian nation may double to 3 million vehicles annually by 2015,
according to the  Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers .  Indian Oil shut 6 million tons of capacity at Panipat two
months ago in preparation for the expansion, Bankapur said Sept.
22. The refinery could earlier process 12 million tons a year.  Indian Oil may raise capacity at its refinery in Gujarat to
18 million tons a year from 13.7 million tons, Bankapur said
Oct. 19. The company is also building a new, 15 million ton-a-
year plant in the eastern state of Orissa.  A cracker that uses naphtha from the Panipat refinery to
produce ethylene and propylene, which was shut in September,
also started operating a few days ago, Bankapur said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 