-- Insider Selling Jumps to a Record as Stocks Climb to Highest in Two Years
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2010-11-11T05:01:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/insider-selling-jumps-to-a-record-as-stocks-reach-two-year-high.html
Insider selling at Standard & Poor’s
500 Index  companies  reached a record in the past week as
executives took advantage of a two-year high in the  stock-market 
to sell their shares.  Executives at 125 companies in the S&P 500 unloaded shares
between Nov. 3 and Nov. 9, while sellers outnumbered buyers by
more than 12 to 1. The readings are the highest based on data
going back to January 2004, according to Princeton, New Jersey-
based  InsiderScore.com , which analyzes insider transactions
disclosed to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Total net
sales reached $4.5 billion, helped by  Microsoft Corp.  Chief
Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer ’s divestment of about $1.34
billion in his first stock sale in seven years.  CEOs, directors and senior officers sold stocks as the Dow
Jones Industrial Average last week rallied to its highest level
since before Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s September 2008
bankruptcy. The gauge closed at a 12-year low on March 9, 2009,
before advancing 73 percent through yesterday. The  S&P 500  has
jumped 16 percent since the end of August, completing five
straight weekly gains to close on Nov. 5 at the highest level
since the week after the Lehman filing.  “That they’re selling at the top of the market is not a
good sign,” said Hank Smith, chief investment officer at
Haverford Trust Co., which manages about $6 billion in Radnor,
Pennsylvania. “It’s not necessarily a sign the market is
popping, because insiders always have several reasons to sell
and only one reason to buy: thinking the stock will go up.”  Capital-Gains Taxes  While insider selling may make investors more skittish
because executives presumably have the best information about
their companies’ prospects, insiders may have chosen to sell now
because of uncertainty about whether the capital-gains tax cuts
enacted under President George W. Bush will be extended,
according to Smith. The law from 2003, which reduced the
capital-gains tax rate for assets owned at least a year to 15
percent from 20 percent, will expire in January unless President
Barack Obama and Congress extend it.  Microsoft’s Ballmer, who took over from  Bill Gates  as CEO
of the Redmond, Washington-based company in 2000, said on Nov. 5
that he plans to sell as many as 75 million shares, or $2
billion based on yesterday’s closing price, to diversify his
holdings and help with tax planning before the end of the year.
Ballmer has already sold about 50 million shares, according to a
regulatory filing.  Bull Market  “We are in a bull market, which typically translates into
more insider selling,” said  Ben Silverman , the Seattle-based
research director at InsiderScore. “Capital gains tax policy
may change next year and that could contribute to the selling as
well -- although insiders rarely say why they’re selling.”  The end of earnings season may also contribute to the
increase in insider selling, according to Silverman, as
executives are prevented from buying or selling company stock
ahead of announcements. Of the companies in the S&P 500, 426
have reported since Oct. 7, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Insiders increased their disposals as profits for companies
in the  S&P 500  are forecast to rise 37 percent to a combined
$84.92 a share in 2010, according to estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. That implies a price-earnings ratio of about 14.4,
compared with an average multiple of 20.6 since January 1990,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Insider selling among 5,168 publicly listed U.S. companies
reached a four-year high, InsiderScore data show. The number of
sellers doubled to 419 from 195 in the week before as they
outnumbered buyers by more than 4 to 1.  Index Gains  The S&P 500 rose 0.4 percent to 1,218.71 yesterday in New
York. The  Dow  gained 10.29 points, or 0.1 percent, to 11,357.04.  Insiders of S&P  companies  have been net sellers for 17
straight weeks, according to InsiderScore. U.S. laws require
executives and directors to disclose stock purchases or
disposals within two business days. The weekly data doesn’t
include transactions related to options and so-called 10b5-1
programs, which allow executives to cash out a portion of their
holdings when stocks reach predetermined prices.  InsiderScore’s Industry Score metric also reached a record
-3.6 in the past week, an indication of bearishness for
investors who follow it. The gauge measures insider sentiment by
recording buying and selling combined with the position of the
insider, how the transaction impacts an insider’s holdings and
whether the disposal or acquisition came while the stock was
strong or weak, among other data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  