-- Insurers, Clearinghouses Said to Be Considered for Basel Rules
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2010-11-11T15:55:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/insurers-clearinghouses-said-to-be-considered-for-too-big-to-fail-rules.html
Insurers and companies that process
financial trades may be considered too big to fail under rules
being prepared by global regulators amid opposition from the
insurance industry, two people close to the discussions said.  The  Financial Stability Board  and the Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision are considering including insurers and
clearing houses in measures to safeguard the world economy from
crises at so-called systemically important financial
institutions, said the people, who declined to be identified
because the talks are private.  The FSB and Basel committee are seeking tougher rules for
too-big-to-fail organizations to prevent a repeat of the turmoil
that followed the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and
the bailout of  American International Group Inc.  Insurers argue
it would be a mistake to classify them in the same way as banks.  “Systemic relevance does not depend on an insurer’s size,
but on the nature of the business,” Allianz SE Chief Financial
Officer  Oliver Baete  said in a conference call yesterday.
“Defining systemic relevance by size is wrong. I would always
be watching for weak business models as those could become
systemically relevant faster than we all can imagine.”  The FSB is working on criteria to identify institutions
that are systemically important at a global level, the FSB said
in an e-mailed statement. It declined to comment on whether
insurers or clearing houses would be included.  Provisional Criteria  The FSB will complete work on the criteria by the end of
2011,  Mario Draghi , the group’s chairman, said last month. The
Basel committee said in a statement last month that it will
develop provisional criteria for “assessing the systemic
importance of financial institutions” by the end of 2010.  Leaders from the Group of 20 nations meeting today and
tomorrow in Seoul will review FSB and Basel proposals that
systemically important institutions should be subject to tougher
requirements. They may also endorse reforms to bank capital
rules reached by global regulators in September.  “We firmly believe that insurers, if they keep to their
core business, are not systemically relevant as banks are, and
we are very confident that politicians will clearly see that
difference,”  Joerg Schneider , chief financial officer at  Munich
Re , the world’s biggest reinsurer, said in a conference call
Nov. 9. “We regard ourselves as not systemically relevant and
we are quite convinced that this is economically sound.”  Greater Capacity  Systemically important institutions should be required to
have greater capacity to absorb losses than other financial
companies, the FSB said in a statement last month. They should
also be subject to “supplementary prudential and other
requirements.”  Bart Nash, a spokesman for  Lloyd’s of London , the world’s
biggest insurance market, said in an e-mail “there is growing
acknowledgement” among regulators “that the insurers are
different to banks and core insurance operations do not create
systemic risk.”  “Updated standards” are needed to make “core market
infrastructures” such as clearing houses more “robust,” the
FSB said in its statement last month.  Clearing houses, such as LCH Clearnet Ltd., operate as
central counterparties for every buy and sell order executed by
their members, who post collateral, reducing the risk that a
trader defaults on a deal.  Clearing Houses  The U.S. and 27-nation European Union have proposed
measures to push more derivatives trading through clearing
houses, to reduce the risk that such trading poses to financial
stability.  The normal activity of clearing houses “isn’t systemically
important but by being forced to clear” derivative contracts,
they “could pose risks to the financial system,”  Peter Skinner , a U.K. Labour member of the  European Parliament , said
in a telephone interview in Brussels today.  “The European Commission has identified that clearing
houses might be systemic,” and that is “not a surprise,” Rory
Cunningham, chairman of the  European Association of CCP Clearing
Houses , said in an e-mailed statement. “It is something we will
have to work with.”  The FSB was set up by the  G-20  last year to oversee the
work of groups setting international standards. It replaced the
Financial Stability Forum, an advisory group with no formal role
that was created in 1999 after the Asian financial crisis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Moshinsky  in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;
 Jim Brunsden  in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 