-- Investors Show Obama No Respect in Poll as Profits Surge
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2010-11-11T05:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/investors-show-obama-no-respect-in-poll-as-profits-surge-with-u-s-stocks.html
Investors around the world say
President  Barack Obama  is bad for the bottom line, even though
U.S. corporations are on track for the biggest earnings growth
in 22 years and the stock market is headed for its best back-to-
back  annual gains  since 2004.  Pessimism about the impact of Obama’s policies on the
investment climate is common to respondents everywhere, the
latest Bloomberg Global Poll shows. At the same time, those
outside the U.S. have favorable views of the president himself,
while U.S. investors overwhelmingly have an unfavorable view,
according to the quarterly poll of Bloomberg subscribers who are
investors, analysts or traders conducted Nov. 8.  The respondents also say the Republican victories in
midterm congressional elections, which gave the party control of
the U.S. House of Representatives, will be good for business.
Pluralities anticipate lower taxes, an improved investment
climate and better stock market returns.  “This administration has swallowed and communicated the
‘new normal’ line far too deeply,” says poll respondent  Sassan Ghahramani , 47, president and chief executive officer of SGH
Macro Advisors in New York. “More important than even the
dispute over tax policy and whether his concrete policies are
pro-business or not is his inability to strike an optimistic
chord on the future competitive prospects of the U.S.”  Negative Impression  Investors are evenly split over their overall impression of
the president, though 62 percent of those in the U.S. view him
negatively. Worldwide, 63 percent of all respondents say his
policies are detrimental to the U.S. investment climate. That
number increases to 68 percent among U.S. investors, even though
the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  has risen  more than 43 percent 
since Obama was inaugurated in January 2009 and corporate
profits have rebounded almost to the pre-recession peak reached
in 2006.  Obama, 49, inherited an economy roiled by financial crisis
and a recession that was the longest and deepest since the Great
Depression. Gross domestic product growth for 2010, which was
forecast to average 2.1 percent the week before he took office,
is now expected to average 2.7 percent, according to median
estimates from a monthly survey of economists by Bloomberg News.  Among the 452 companies in the S&P index that had reported
third-quarter earnings by Nov. 10, profits were up a share-
weighted average of 32 percent since a year earlier, with more
than two-thirds of companies outpacing analysts’ expectations.  Rescue of Economy  The president gets little credit from investors for
measures he oversaw to rescue the economy, including the
continuation of a bailout of the financial industry begun under
President  George W. Bush , an expansion of the help for U.S. auto
companies and the enactment of an $814 billion stimulus package.
Only 1 of 6 investors says the Obama administration’s policies
have been primarily responsible for the performance of the stock
market or economy.  “The uncertainty around the administration’s approach to
dealing with businesses and the lack of clarity on taxes has
created an environment where companies are less likely to make
incremental investments, which in turn is bad for future
corporate profits and hence the investment climate,” says poll
respondent  Quinten Stevens , 46, managing partner of Stevens
Asset Management LLC in Darien, Connecticut. “Hopefully, the
recent election results will be a powerful wake-up call to
significantly change their approach towards the private
sector.”  No Broad Impact  While respondents are bullish about some aspects of the
Republicans’ gains in the elections, they don’t expect the
political shift to have a broader economic impact. More than
half of all respondents say they believe Republican control will
have little or no effect on  job growth  or the availability of
credit. A 41 percent plurality say the change in party control
won’t have much impact on the overall economy.  The shift of the House to Republican control “generally is
considered positive by markets but in reality the impasse in the
decision-making process will delay any of the major structural
reforms the U.S. economy needs,” said poll respondent  Sergio Pigoli , 52, president of Pigoli Consulenza, an advisory firm in
Milan, Italy.  Investors are split on the consequences of the Republican
House majority for the  budget deficit , which was $1.29 trillion
in the 2010 fiscal year that ended Sept. 30. Thirty-six percent
see a positive effect, 24 percent a negative effect and 31
percent little or no effect.  2012 Presidential Race  When Americans next elect a president in 2012, a 2-to-1
majority of U.S. investors say a Republican in the White House
would be the better outcome for the economy. A plurality of
investors in Europe and Asia believe an Obama re-election would
be best for their regions’ economies. Yet more than half of
investors worldwide say they believe Obama is destined to be a
one-term president.  The poll was conducted less than a week after the Nov. 2
midterm elections, which gave Republicans at least 60 seats in
the House and six seats in the Senate, the biggest swing in the
party’s favor since 1938.  With the White House and Senate still under Democratic
control, three-quarters of investors would like to see the two
political parties working together, even if it means
compromising their principles.  They also aren’t giving congressional Republicans an
unequivocal mandate: Investors are split evenly on their
appraisal of that party, with 44 percent holding a favorable
view and 44 percent unfavorable. Congressional Democrats come
out worse: 57 percent negative, compared with 31 percent
positive.  Republican Leader  This ambivalence applies also to the presumptive new
speaker of the House, Republican Representative  John Boehner  of
Ohio. About one-third have a favorable view of him, a little
more than one-quarter have a negative view and more than 4 of 10
investors have no opinion. He does better among U.S.
respondents, with a plurality of 47 percent holding a favorable
view.  Regarding one of the most immediate questions facing
Congress, almost two-thirds of investors believe a failure by
lawmakers to extend the Bush-era income-tax cuts before they
expire Dec. 31 would damage the U.S. economy and stock markets.
The view is shared across all regions, though it is strongest in
the U.S.  “Any reversal of tax cuts will depress disposable income
at a junction critical to the U.S. economy and have a negative
effect on the still-fragile economic growth rate,” said poll
respondent  Constantine Thanassoulas , 57, chief executive officer
of Premier European Capital in London.  Tax-Cut Debate  U.S. investors and their counterparts in other regions
diverge over how Congress should handle the specific elements of
the tax cuts and other financial issues.  More than 6 of 10 U.S. investors believe it would be best
if Congress adopted the Republican proposal to extend the tax
cuts for all income levels, including wealthy families. Only 3
of 10 investors outside the U.S. believe the cuts should be
continued for all taxpayers.  Pluralities of investors based in Europe and Asia believe
it would be best to extend the tax cuts only for families making
less than $250,000 per year, as Obama and most congressional
Democrats advocate. Almost a quarter of investors outside the
U.S. believe all the Bush tax cuts should expire -- a solution
espoused by former Federal Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan  as a
way to curb the deficit -- while only 10 percent of U.S.
investors say so.  Capital-Gains Rate  Among U.S. investors, more than half may sell assets to
lock in the current 15 percent capital gains tax rate. If
Congress fails to act, that rate would rise to 20 percent.  Already, 7 percent of respondents say they have sold assets
to avoid an increase in the capital-gains tax. Another 21
percent say they plan to do so before the end of the year while
28 percent are waiting to see how the tax debate unfolds in
Congress.  Investors in the U.S. and elsewhere also are split on
whether Congress should follow Republican leaders’ call to roll
back the Obama-supported financial regulatory overhaul enacted
this year. The measure includes the creation of a Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau and new rules governing the trading
of derivatives.  Majorities of investors in Europe and Asia said a rollback
is a bad idea while a 47 percent plurality of U.S. investors
said it is a good idea.  The poll of 1,030 Bloomberg subscribers was conducted by
 Selzer & Co. , a Des Moines, Iowa-based firm, and has a margin of
error of plus or minus 3.1 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mike Dorning  in Washington D.C. at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 