-- Ireland on Brink as `Beggar' for Aid After Losses by Fingleton
-- B y   A l a n   K a t z   a n d   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2010-11-11T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/ireland-on-brink-as-beggar-for-aid-after-fingleton-s-billion-dollar-loss.html
As a young accountant,  Michael Fingleton  took his do-it-yourself attitude from Dublin to Lagos,
Nigeria, to sort out the finances of the Catholic archdiocese.  “He stayed for a year and a half, cleaned up the books and
put in a system to allow them to keep it up after he left,”
said  John O’Loughlin Kennedy , co-founder of the charity Concern
Worldwide and a friend of the Irish priest who asked Fingleton
for help in the late 1960s. “He did a very good job.”  That same can-do spirit enabled Fingleton, now 72, to turn
what was a century-old Irish lender with six employees when he
joined in 1971 into a firm with 16.1 billion euros ($22.2
billion) of assets at its height in 2007. It also led Dublin-
based Irish Nationwide Building Society to put too much power in
one man’s hands, with too few risk controls, according to a May
 report  by Irish Central Bank Governor  Patrick Honohan .  Fingleton’s rise and fall, and that of Irish Nationwide, is
a microcosm of the financial catastrophe that led to a bailout
of five of the country’s biggest lenders. Customer-owned Irish
Nationwide, which began much like George Bailey’s Building and
Loan in the 1946 movie  “It’s a Wonderful Life,”  is hooked to a
5.4 billion-euro lifeline of taxpayer money to help it avoid
bankruptcy. The government seized control of the company this
year and is looking to sell or merge it with another firm.  ‘Crazy Loans’  Meanwhile, the end of a decade-long property boom, fanned
by reckless bank lending to developers and home buyers, plunged
Ireland into the worst recession since at least 1947.  The economy shrank 3.5 percent in 2008 and 7.6 percent more
last year, and is expected to contract by 0.3 percent this year,
according to the International Monetary Fund. The unemployment
rate shot up to 13.6 percent in October from 4.7 percent three
years earlier, Ireland’s  Central Statistics Office  reported.
Commercial property  prices  have fallen 59 percent since
September 2007, according to an index compiled by London-based
Investment Property Databank.  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Ireland’s debt
rather than German bunds has more than doubled in the last three
months and now stands at 6.20 percentage points, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The government laid out a plan last
week to cut spending and raise taxes by as much as 6 billion
euros in 2011.  “It was the banks doing crazy loans, it was borrowers
taking crazy loans and a failure by government and regulators to
do their jobs properly,” said Sean Kay, a professor of politics
and government at Ohio Wesleyan University in Delaware, Ohio,
who spent three months this year in Dublin interviewing
officials for a book. “There was no adult supervision.”  ‘Severe Distress’  Fingleton retired in April 2009 amid criticism in
parliament and the press over a 1 million-euro retention payment
he received in late 2008, part of the 2.4 million euros he was
paid that year. He was also the sole beneficiary of a defined-
benefit pension plan transferred in 2007 to an outside
organization and valued at 27.6 million euros at the time,
according to the company’s 2008 annual report.  The former chief executive officer, who sports a white
goatee, isn’t facing any charges. A  Commission of Investigation ,
created by the government on Sept. 21, is looking into why
senior management at Irish Nationwide and  Anglo Irish Bank Corp. 
implemented “business and lending practices which resulted in
those institutions experiencing severe distress.”  Fingleton’s lawyer, Paul Tweed, said his client declined to
comment. Fingleton didn’t respond to three voicemail messages
left on his mobile phone.  Booterstown Wood  “It is beyond the imagination that he can walk away with
millions, after losing billions,” James Wickham, 84, said as he
walked in front of an Irish Nationwide branch on Dublin’s Lower
O’Connell Street that had posters with the tag line “Take a
fresh look” hanging in its windows. Fingleton and his fellow
bankers “have turned Ireland from a prosperous country into a
beggar,” Wickham said.  The collapse of Ireland’s real estate bubble --  home prices 
almost quadrupled in the decade through 2007 -- can be seen in
the knock-down prices of apartments in Dublin’s Booterstown Wood
complex, owned and developed by Irish Nationwide, and in the 170
million euros of loans made to the developer of a hotel,
conference center and research cluster now being liquidated.  Irish Nationwide had the most toxic loan book of the five
financial companies whose bailout could end up costing the
government 50 billion euros, according to a Sept. 30 estimate by
Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan . The  National Asset Management
Agency , set up to help cleanse the financial system, applied the
biggest discount to face value -- as much as 72 percent -- to
loans it bought from Irish Nationwide, according to statements
on NAMA’s website. The agency is  buying  all of the building
society’s commercial loans, Chairman  Danny Kitchen  said May 12.  Special Purpose Vehicles  Irish Nationwide is facing discounts in part because of its
practice of lending on high loan-to-value ratios and lax
paperwork,  Gerard McGinn , who took over as CEO in June 2009,
said at an April 19 press conference. The company reported a 2.5
billion-euro loss that day as it set aside 2.8 billion euros
against bad loans.  “What has happened here is an outrage,” McGinn said,
adding that risk management was inadequate. “There were gaps in
some pretty basic information in the paper trail” of commercial
property loans. McGinn declined to comment for this article.  Under Fingleton, Irish Nationwide structured many of its
deals in the U.K. through special purpose vehicles, in which
loans were secured solely by the value of the underlying land
and not on any of the borrowers’ other assets, said a person
with direct knowledge of how the loans were arranged. The former
CEO also had little check on his decisions, according to Central
Bank Governor Honohan’s report.  ‘Unsustainable’ Position  “The central management figure in INBS was seen as an
overly dominating figure that needed to be surrounded by a
stronger governance structure,” Honohan wrote.  He also said regulators failed to grasp how vulnerable
lenders were to property-price declines and faulted them for a
lack of assertiveness in challenging banks or following up on
corrective actions.  Fingleton and Irish Nationwide illustrate the decision-
making that undermined the nation’s financial system over the
past decade, bringing its banks close to collapse. The rising
cost of the rescues has prompted some investors, including
 Stuart Thomson , a fund manager at Glasgow-based Ignis Asset
Management, who helps oversee about $110 billion, to speculate
that Ireland may need to cede its economic sovereignty by
seeking a bailout from the European Union and the IMF almost 90
years after winning its independence from the U.K.  “We have little doubt that Ireland’s fiscal position is
unsustainable,” Thomson said in an interview Nov. 4. “At some
point in the next two years, they will be forced to borrow from
the European Financial Stability Fund.”  Abramovich Debt  The government said on Sept. 30 that holders of Irish
Nationwide and Anglo Irish subordinated debt should help
shoulder some of the bailout costs, which may equal about one-
third of Ireland’s annual economic output, even as it ruled out
defaulting on senior debt.  That includes Russian billionaire  Roman Abramovich , whose
Moscow-based Millhouse LLC, an asset-management firm, bought
some of the 126 million pounds ($203 million) of five-year,
lower Tier 2 debt Irish Nationwide sold in August 2009 and that
was guaranteed through September. The move would cost Ireland a
“huge reputation loss,” Millhouse said on Oct. 1.  The full cost of Ireland’s bailout may be higher than
Lenihan’s estimate, according to Mark Grant, managing director
at Southwest Securities Inc. in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, who
sends daily commentary to about 5,500 institutions.  “However this gets played out, it’s going to be quite
ugly,” he said.  Defunct Creameries  Fingleton grew up in Tubbercurry in western Ireland, the
son of a policeman, according to a person who worked for him for
more than a decade and who refused to be identified.  Irish Nationwide wouldn’t provide any biographical
information about its former CEO. A 2006 profile in the Irish
Independent said that after receiving a degree in commerce from
University College Dublin, Fingleton landed a job at the Dairy
Disposal Agency, a state body that took over defunct creameries.
He studied for an accounting certification at night before going
to Nigeria, the newspaper said.  After he returned to Ireland, Fingleton was hired in 1971
as the top manager at the Irish Industrial Benefit Building
Society, a mortgage lender founded in 1873 by a group of Dublin
working-class men with assets of about 2 million euros. While on
the job, he also earned a barrister-at-law degree from King’s
Inns in Dublin.  Rising Profits  Fingleton made his ambition at the tiny lender clear early
on, changing the name to add the word Nationwide to show that
the company intended to become a financial powerhouse, said
Eanna Johnson, who served with Fingleton on the board of
directors of  Concern Worldwide  in the 1970s and 1980s.  Between 1971 and 2007, Irish Nationwide’s profits rose each
year, according to a copy of a speech given by then-chairman
 Michael Walsh  at the company’s annual meeting in April 2008. The
firm increased its net book value by more than 1 billion euros
to 1.5 billion euros from 1997 through 2007 and had the highest
return on assets of any large lender in Ireland, Walsh said.  It was early last decade that Irish Nationwide, along with
other Irish banks, plunged fully into commercial-property
lending and surged into the U.K. Between 2001 and 2007,
Fingleton multiplied the company’s assets almost fourfold to
16.1 billion euros and its loan book by a similar amount to 12.3
billion euros, according to annual reports. In 2008, commercial
property loans including residential development accounted for
78 percent of the total, the company’s annual report shows, with
more than half of that lending in the U.K.  Seventh-Floor Office  Working alone on the wood-paneled seventh floor of Irish
Nationwide’s corporate  headquarters , with views of South Dublin
and the mountains beyond, Fingleton personally approved many of
the loans that built the company, according to two people with
direct knowledge of the firm’s operations. Losses on loans also
tore down Irish Nationwide, according to Honohan’s report.  Fingleton continued to expand the company’s loan book in
2007, even after the real estate market began to sour.  “The Society’s objective is to continue to build up
significant income streams based on secured property lending,”
Irish Nationwide wrote in its directors’ report dated March 10,
2008, less than a week before the U.S. government kept Bear
Stearns Cos. from collapsing by brokering a sale to  JPMorgan
Chase & Co.   Empty Rooms  On Sept. 19, 2008, four days after  Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.  filed the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history and less than
two weeks before Ireland’s government stepped in to guarantee
loans and deposits of its biggest lenders, Fingleton wrote a
 letter  to regulators saying his firm “is a very profitable
financial institution” with “a strong capital position.”  He predicted Irish Nationwide would report pretax profit of
as much as 175 million euros for 2008 and need to provision no
more than 100 million euros against bad loans. In fact, the
company posted a 243 million euro loss for the year on
provisions against loan losses of 464.3 million euros.  Today, about 250,000 square feet of empty conference rooms,
theaters and residential and research space in a development
called New Springfield stand as silent witness to some of
Fingleton’s loans. A 2002 Irish Nationwide loan of 40 million
euros for the project in Kilternan, nine miles south of Dublin,
grew to 170 million euros by 2008, according to a person
involved in the transaction who declined to be named because of
a court-ordered liquidation. The land may now be worth 50
million euros to 70 million euros, the person estimated.  Taking Control  At Booterstown Wood in the heart of affluent South Dublin,
built on land Irish Nationwide bought about three decades ago,
prices have also plummeted. Apartments, set around a courtyard,
are priced between 215,000 euros and 445,000 euros. If all sell
for their asking prices, the complex will raise about 19 million
euros, or about half of what they would have sold for in 2007,
said David Cantwell, agent for real estate agency Hooke &
MacDonald, which is marketing the apartments.  Ireland’s government took control of Irish Nationwide in
March by injecting 100 million euros for a special investment
share and 2.6 billion euros of capital in the form of promissory
notes. The state will use promissory notes for an additional 2.7
billion euros to cover expected losses on the firm’s remaining
loan book, Lenihan, the finance minister, said on Sept. 30.  The government, which said in March that Irish Nationwide
didn’t have a future as a standalone organization, is in
discussions with the European Commission and the institution
itself about selling the company or integrating it into another
lender, Lenihan said on Sept. 30.  ‘So Scared’  Fingleton said in an interview on RTE television on Aug. 18
that he had remorse about the financial situation in Ireland
resulting from bank losses.  “Of course I have,” he said. “Like anybody else.”  For Barbara Scully, 48, a housewife and part-time writer in
Dublin, such expressions don’t do much to ease the pain of
reliving a difficult youth she thought she had left behind.  She watched friends leave the country in search of work in
the recession of the early 1980s. Her 23-year-old daughter,
still living at home, said goodbye last month to one of her best
friends who left to work as a nurse in England. Ireland lost
34,500 people in the 12 months through April, the most recent
data available, the biggest net  emigration  since 1989, according
to the country’s central statistics office.  “People are so scared,” said Scully, who has looked
unsuccessfully for a job for the past year and whose husband is
a freelance photographer. “For the last two years it’s all
stopped. He went from being very busy to full stop. The phone
stopped ringing. It was like we were all frozen. Seeing him
sitting here all day long was very hard.”  ‘Fantasy World’  The wreck of Irish Nationwide and Anglo Irish, whose former
chairman  Sean FitzPatrick  helped bankroll many of the developers
behind the property boom, is also on the mind of Fiach Mac
Conghail, director of Dublin’s  Abbey Theatre .  FitzPatrick resigned in December 2008 after revealing what
he called his  “inappropriate and unacceptable”  practice of
moving loans, sometimes in excess of 80 million euros, from the
bank he ran to Irish Nationwide over an eight-year period to
avoid disclosing them in detail to shareholders. Fingleton told
RTE in August that he was cooperating with an inquiry by the
Irish fraud police and that his firm “had no responsibility
whatsoever with those loans.” FitzPatrick, reached on his
mobile phone, declined to comment on Fingleton.  The Abbey Theatre mounted a revival last month of Henrik
Ibsen’s “John Gabriel Borkman,” an 1896 play about a disgraced
banker that played to sold-out Dublin audiences.  “It talks about the fantasy world of people in power,”
Mac Conghail said of Ibsen’s play. “At what point did they
think they were absolutely untouchable?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alan Katz  in Paris at 
 akatz5@bloomberg.net ;
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Melissa Pozsgay at 
 mpozsgay@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Friedman at 
 rfriedman5@bloomberg.net . 