-- Irish Investors Head for Exits, Nomura Economist Sheard Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   T o m   K e e n e   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2010-11-11T15:43:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/ireland-investors-are-heading-for-exits-nomura-s-sheard-says-tom-keene.html
Investors are signaling European
politicians they are prepared to “head for the exits” amid
concerns about Ireland’s debt, according to  Paul Sheard , chief
global economist at Nomura Securities International Inc.  “Bondholders don’t want to be left holding the bag,”
Sheard said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance”
with  Tom Keene . “Politicians are increasingly worried in
Germany and France how they are going to be able to sell a
bailout of bondholders to their own taxpayers.”  Irish bonds fell for a 13th day today, pushing the yield on
10-year debt to 8.77 percent. The premium investors charge to
hold the debt over German bunds, Europe’s benchmark, widened to
a record 651 basis points.  Yields have soared on concern that the government will be
forced to seek external aid to help it bail out the country’s
banks. Ireland is fully funded until the middle of next year and
European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said on Nov. 9 that he’s got “no doubt” that the nation
will overcome its crisis.  “It’s still a very fragile, precarious situation in
Europe,” Sheard said.  Financial Aid  “All stakeholders must participate in the gains and losses
of any particular situation” as a “point of principle,”
French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  said during an
interview with Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move” with
 Francine Lacqua .  Lagarde’s comments mark France’s most explicit backing of
German proposals to make bondholders contribute in bailouts.  EU members are checking whether Ireland needs financial aid
from a 750 billion-euro ($1 trillion) rescue fund, the German
business newspaper Handelsblatt said today, citing government
officials it didn’t identify. Ireland hasn’t yet requested aid,
the report said.  The end of Ireland’s decade-long property boom fueled by
bank lending to developers and home buyers has plunged Ireland
into the worst recession since at least 1947.  The nation’s economy shrank 3.5 percent in 2008 and 7.6
percent more last year, and is expected to contract by 0.3
percent this year, according to the International Monetary Fund.
The unemployment rate climbed to 13.6 percent in October from
4.7 percent three years earlier, Ireland’s Central Statistics
Office reported. Commercial property prices have fallen 59
percent since September 2007, according to an index compiled by
London-based Investment Property Databank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net 
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  