-- Ireland Yields to Fall on Budget Accord, ECB Backstop, Nikko Cordial Says
-- B y   N o b u y u k i   A k a m a
-- 2010-11-11T03:29:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/ireland-yields-to-fall-on-budget-accord-ecb-backstop-nikko-cordial-says.html
Ireland’s bond yields will drop from
record-high levels once the government wins backing for 2011
budget cuts needed to reassure fixed-income investors, according
to Nikko Cordial Securities Inc.  Ireland’s 10-year bonds declined for a 12th day yesterday,
pushing up the  extra yield  investors demand to hold the
securities instead of German debt to more than 600 basis points
for the first time. By next month, the government in Dublin will
likely reach agreement with opposition party members on plans to
cut the budget deficit, said  Hiroki Shimazu , a senior market
economist at Nikko Cordial in Tokyo.  “That will likely drive down the yield spread on Irish
bonds relative to German bunds to the 300 to 400 basis-point
level,” Shimazu said.  Yields on Ireland’s benchmark bonds have surged since the
government unveiled on Oct. 26 a package of 15 billion euros
($21 billion) in austerity measures to take effect over four
years. The rates kept rising even after Finance Minister Brian
Lenihan announced plans on Nov. 4 to slash the budget deficit by
6 billion euros in 2011.  The European Central Bank resumed government-bond purchases
last week after yields surged in Portugal and Greece amid
concerns there will be a resurgence of the European debt crisis.
That demonstrates the central bank’s resolve to "contain market
turmoil with all its force," Shimazu said.  Exit Strategy  The ECB will likely continue to discuss withdrawing
monetary stimulus and may raise interest rates in the third
quarter of next year, the economist said.  The bank left its benchmark interest rate unchanged at a
record low of 1 percent on Nov. 4. ECB President Jean-Claude
Trichet said after the decision that economic momentum in the
euro region is “positive,” though “uncertainty is
prevailing.” The bank will decide on possible further steps in
its exit strategy at its next meeting in December, he said.  With the economic recovery spreading from external to
domestic demand in the euro zone, the ECB will likely first
increase interest rates to stabilize inflation, while keeping in
place its bond-purchase program and liquidity measures, Shimazu
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nobuyuki Akama  in Tokyo at 
 akam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 