-- Irish Bank Default Swaps Rise to Distress on Bailout
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r   a n d   M i c h a e l   S h a n a h a n
-- 2010-11-11T17:06:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/irish-bank-default-swaps-rise-to-distress-as-loan-losses-lift-bailout.html
The cost of insuring the bonds of
Irish banks soared to distressed levels amid concern that the
government won’t be able to afford the cost of bailing out the
nation’s banks.  Irish and international banks’ loan losses in the country
may total at least 85 billion euros ($117 billion), central bank
Governor  Patrick Honohan  said in Dublin yesterday.  Morgan Kelly ,
an economics professor dubbed “Doctor Doom,”  said  on Nov. 8
that mortgage defaults may push the cost of Ireland’s bank
bailout to 70 billion euros, more than the government’s estimate
of 50 billion euros.  Credit-default swaps on subordinated debt of  Allied Irish
Banks Plc , the nation’s second-largest lender, are 60 percent
upfront and 5 percent a year, meaning it costs 6 million euros
in advance and 500,000 euros annually to insure 10 million euros
of the bank’s debt for five years. Swaps tied to the
subordinated debt of Bank of Ireland, the country’s biggest
bank, cost 33 percent upfront and 5 percent a year.  “Concern seems to be mainly targeted at Ireland and its
banks and everything looks like it’s going against them at the
moment,” said  Simon Adamson , a bank credit analyst at
CreditSights Inc. in London. “Whatever they say to reassure
people, it doesn’t seem to be having any effect.”  Honohan said there’s no “hard indication” in the level of
mortgage arrears that estimates of arrears used in bank stress-
tests earlier this year will be exceeded.  More than a third of mortgages and half of the buy-to-let
loans originated by Irish Nationwide Building Society, which the
government seized in March, are in arrears, the Irish
Independent reported yesterday.  Brian Lenihan  Dublin-based  Ronan Sheridan , a spokesman at Allied Irish,
Sheila Gahan at Irish Nationwide and Bank of Ireland spokesman
 Dan Loughrey  declined to comment.  Irish Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said Sept. 30 that
while holders of subordinated bonds would be expected to share
in the cost of bailing out Irish Nationwide and Anglo Irish Bank
Corp., the two government-controlled lenders, the government
wouldn’t inflict losses on bondholders of banks with publicly
traded shares, such as Allied Irish. Anglo Irish is offering
holders 20 cents on the euro for its so-called lower Tier 2
notes while Irish Nationwide hasn’t said what it plans to do.  Credit-default swaps on the junior bonds of Allied Irish
are signaling that full government ownership of the lender is
“all but fully priced in” by traders, according to Credit
Agricole SA.  Allied Irish  Contracts on Allied Irish senior debt soared 99 basis
points to 1,008 basis points yesterday and were at 1,150 today,
while swaps on Bank of Ireland, which yesterday jumped 42 to
741, were at 816, CMA prices show.  The two lenders’ subordinated bonds tumbled today.  Allied
Irish’s  869 million euros of 12.5 percent so-called lower Tier 2
notes due June 2019 fell 5.2 cents on the euro to 47.1 cents,
according to pricing data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bank of
Ireland ’s 450 million pounds ($645 million) of subordinated
bonds maturing 2020 slid 5.5 pence to 61.5 pence, the data show.  The Irish banking crisis helped drive the benchmark  Markit
iTraxx Financial Index  of default swaps linked to the senior
debt of 25 banks and insurers up 4 basis points to 147.5, after
earlier climbing to the highest since June. The subordinated
 index  jumped 10.5 basis points to 235.5.  Record Spread  Irish 10-year government bonds fell, widening the yield
spread with benchmark German bunds by 33 basis points to 652
basis points, a record, according to Bloomberg generic data.  A bailout of Ireland through the through the European
Financial Stability Facility would resolve market tension and
not lead to contagion, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
strategists. Such a move “may mark a resolution of ongoing
European Monetary Union sovereign tensions,”  Francesco Garzarelli , chief interest-rate strategist at Goldman Sachs in
London, wrote in a research report.  “The market may push the Irish government into doing
something to relieve the pressure,” said Adamson at
CreditSights. “It’s very hard to resist this sort of
pressure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Glover  in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  