-- Israeli Gas Explorers Retreat on Panel Proposal to Levy Tax on Profits
-- B y   R o n i t   G o o d m a n
-- 2010-11-11T15:08:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/israeli-gas-explorers-retreat-on-panel-proposal-to-levy-tax-on-profits.html
Israeli gas explorers declined after
a committee appointed by Finance Minister  Yuval Steinitz 
recommended levying a special tax on gas and oil profits.  Delek Energy Systems Ltd.  slid 7.7 percent, the most since
July 2009, to 1,173 shekels at the 4:30 p.m. close in Tel Aviv.
 Delek Drilling-LP  fell 6.6 percent to 13.31 shekels.  Avner Oil
Exploration-L.P.  dropped 4.6 percent and  Isramco Negev 2 LP 
declined 5.8 percent.  The panel, headed by Hebrew University of Jerusalem
Professor Emeritus  Eytan Sheshinski , called for a special,
progressive tax to be levied on gas-field profits while taking
into account the expenses of the oil and gas exploration
partners. If the recommendations are accepted, the government’s
share of proceeds from large oil and gas fields would increase
to about 66 percent from the current 30 percent.  “The panel’s recommendations are a big hit to the energy
companies,” said Tel Aviv-based IBI’s analyst Guil Bashan on
the telephone today. “The investment feasibility in these
companies has decreased as the return to investors will be
significantly lower having to share more of the profits with the
government.”  Israel proposed changes after a group including companies
controlled by Israeli billionaire  Isaac Tshuva ’s  Delek Group
Ltd.  and partner  Noble Energy Inc.  made record gas finds off
Israel’s Mediterranean coast in the past two years. The two
finds, called Tamar and Leviathan, may hold 24 trillion cubic
feet of gas, double the U.K.’s proven reserves in 2009, and the
whole area as much as 30 trillion cubic feet, Noble said in
June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ronit Goodman  in Tel Aviv at 
 rgoodman9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  