-- Miss World Offers Unique View of U.S. Downgrade: William Pesek
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2010-11-11T21:33:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/miss-world-offers-unique-view-of-u-s-downgrade-william-pesek.html
When  China  intrigue shares the stage
at the Miss World pageant, you know we’ve got problems.  That’s the buzz in Sanya, China, where American Alexandria
Mills recently  won  the tiara in an upset over Miss Norway -- the
bookies’ favorite. Observers cried foul after the Norwegian
beauty didn’t even crack the top five. Was it retribution for
the Nobel Peace Prize going to jailed dissident  Liu Xiaobo ?  The mere fact this is being debated shows two things. One,
how far and wide the tentacles of China’s relationship with the
world are traveling. Two, how much that rapport has deteriorated
since the Nobel announcement last month. Since then, China
lobbied governments to boycott the Nobel ceremony in Oslo,
territorial disputes in Asia heated up and tempers flared over
rare-earth materials exports.  Tit-for-tat geopolitics also is creeping more and more into
financial matters. A move by China’s Dagong Global Credit Rating
Co. this week to downgrade the U.S. could be the latest case in
point, and a worrisome one at that.  Only President  Barack Obama ’s staff would have the audacity
to suggest America’s finances are fine. U.S. deficits are
antagonizing the world at a time when the Federal Reserve is
opening the monetary floodgates anew. The Fed’s latest
quantitative-easing effort has eyeballs rolling from Berlin to
Seoul.  Politics Abound  Really, if you gave an accountant a random sampling of
national balance sheets without saying which countries they
belong to, some developing nations might get a higher rating
than the U.S. Yet only politics can explain China receiving a
higher Dagong credit rating than the issuer of the world’s
reserve currency.  The Fed’s latest steps don’t give Dagong officials
political cover. Their move to cut the U.S.’s rating to A+ from
AA seems wryly timed to coincide with this week’s Group of 20
summit in Seoul.  “The general market perception is that there’s a risk that
the Chinese rating agency is playing a bit more political game
than providing independent analysis,” says  Ian Lyngen , a bond
strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in Stamford, Connecticut.  Granted, a similar problem helped fuel the subprime loan
crisis. Moody’s Investors Service and Standard & Poor’s Corp.
rated garbage as AAA. Their lack of independence from the
entities to whom they provided top ratings helped bring
capitalism to the brink of collapse. It helped deliver the U.S.
economy to the heavily-indebted place in which it now finds
itself.  Dagong had a valid point in July when it stripped the U.S.
of its AAA rating. Conversely, on the surface at least, China
would seem to be among the least ugly contestants in the global
economic beauty pageant.  Ratings Overkill  This latest U.S. rating cut, though, is overkill. Everyone
knows America’s finances are a mess. Much the same could be said
of the euro zone, where Greece’s fiscal nightmare foreshadows
darker realities. Japan’s debt challenges are hardly news.
Dagong’s number crunchers would be better off mining the Chinese
economy for cracks than pointing fingers overseas.  What the world doesn’t know is where the big risks lurk in
an economy that surpassed Japan as the second-largest earlier
this year. Five years ago, China’s non-transparent model was
fine as it busily worked to fuel growth and reduce poverty.
Today, China is too vital to let potential pitfalls fester
beyond investors’ view.  Chinese credit analysts should be trolling for signs that
the massive stimulus of recent years is morphing into a bad-loan
crisis. They should be looking into the veracity of rural growth
figures that often come in far above the national average. They
should be searching for asset bubbles and speaking out against
the corruption that slows economic reform.  Wad of Dollars  The monumental build up of currency reserves should be
reviewed. Why any nation needs a wad of cash equal to almost
half of its annual gross domestic product is beyond me. By
loading up on dollars, China is distorting its money supply and
adding to its overheating risks.  In Seoul this week, much of the focus is yuan-related. The
odds of G-20 officials getting China to boost its currency are
almost nil. More likely, events will reinforce the every-nation-
for-itself dynamic that has dominated since Wall Street’s near-
collapse in 2008.  That goes for the U.S., too. The Fed’s latest steps will
send new rounds of hot money coursing through  Asia ’s economies,
adding to inflation risks. A split Congress means America is
likely to be borrowing even more from China to cut taxes. Such
actions will do more to exacerbate global imbalances than boost
U.S. growth.  That gets us back to Miss World. Economies compete a bit
like beauty contestants in the best of times. Each takes pains
to look prettier than the others, seem more talented and appear
more confident on the catwalk of capitalism. The posturing has
gotten nastier and more desperate over the past two years.  Nowhere is that clearer than Asia. The region is coming to
terms with the idiosyncrasies of a new superpower while U.S.
influence wanes. Those tensions are bubbling up everywhere from
credit-rating decisions to beauty contests. It’s not what you
would call a pretty picture.  ( William Pesek  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 William Pesek  in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  