-- Japan Airlines Said to Hire Daiwa to Advise on Sale of Stake
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a ,   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a   a n d   C h r i s   C o o p e r
-- 2010-11-12T02:19:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/japan-airlines-said-to-hire-daiwa-to-advise-on-sale-of-608-million-stake.html
Japan Airlines Corp.  plans to hire
 Daiwa Securities Group Inc.  to help raise about 50 billion yen
($608 million) as it reorganizes operations in bankruptcy 
protection, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  The carrier aims to sell common or preferred shares to
corporate investors by March 31, one of the people said,
declining to be identified as details of the plan aren’t public.
 Kojiro Waki , a spokesman for the Tokyo-based carrier, and Kozue
Niida, a spokeswoman for Daiwa, declined to comment.  The airline is slashing a third of its workforce and
rebuilding capital after seeking court protection from creditors
in January. Japan Air has secured 350 billion yen from the
government-backed  Enterprise Turnaround Initiative Corp.  and is
seeking another 50 billion yen, Chairman  Kazuo Inamori  said in a
speech in Tokyo last month.  “They need to raise more capital,” said  Yasuhiro Matsumoto , an analyst in Tokyo at Shinsei Securities Co. “The
business environment will be more severe in the future, and so
they need more capital to survive.”  Rival  All Nippon Airways Co. , Asia’s largest listed carrier
by sales, is starting a discount airline, and  Skymark Airlines
Inc. , Japan’s biggest low-cost carrier, plans to expand into
international service.  Creditors  Japan Air’s creditors have agreed to an 872 billion yen
turnaround plan that waives 88 percent of unsecured liabilities,
cuts jobs and grounds planes in a bid to exit bankruptcy. The
carrier expects court approval for the plan this month.  The company had operating income of 110 billion yen in the
six months ended September, compared with a 96 billion yen loss
a year earlier. It cut 8,000 jobs by September and plans to
eliminate another 8,000 by March 31.  All Nippon’s new carrier is set to begin flying from
Japan’s Kansai International Airport in the fiscal second half
starting October 2011, while Skymark plans to begin overseas
flights with  Airbus SAS  A380 superjumbo planes from the fiscal
year starting April 2014.  Inamori, who took over as chairman in February after the
government appointed him to oversee restructuring efforts, has
said he wants the carrier to exit bankruptcy protection within
two years. Japan Air was delisted from the Tokyo Stock Exchange
in February. Inamori is also the founder of electronics company
Kyocera Corp.  Daiwa ranks fifth in equity underwriting in Japan this year,
down from second in 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Tokyo-based brokerage is third in advising on
mergers and acquisitions in 2010, the same as last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Takahiko Hyuga  in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net ;
 Kiyotaka Matsuda  in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  