-- Asian Stocks Decline as China's Inflation Spurs Interest Rate Speculation
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 2010-11-12T08:46:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/japan-stock-futures-drop-on-u-s-earnings-outlook-australian-shares-fall.html
Asian stocks  fell, with the regional
benchmark index set for its biggest weekly loss in three months,
as speculation mounted that China will increase interest rates
to curb inflation.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd., the world’s
largest bank, slid 3.1 percent in Hong Kong as inflation figures
released yesterday added to concern the nation may soon raise
borrowing costs. China Shenhua Energy Co., China’s biggest coal
producer, fell 4.9 percent. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc.,
Japan’s No. 1 lender by market value, lost 1.8 percent after the
Wall Street Journal said Asian lenders may face higher capital
holding requirements.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  lost 1.4 percent, the most in
more than two months, to 132.40 as of 5:43 p.m. in Tokyo, with
more about five stocks falling for each that rose. All 10
industry groups fell on the index.  “The fear about further tightening measures by China is
the main reason for the region’s decline today,” said  Tim Leung ,
who helps manage about $1.5 billion at IG Investment Ltd. in
Hong Kong. “The inflation report gave people a reason to worry
about further tightening policy. People are getting a bit
nervous -- they are seeing more evidence,” of the likelihood of
an interest-rate hike, he said.  The Asia-Pacific measure is on course for a 1.8 percent
decline this week, its biggest drop since the week ending Aug.
13.  China Inflation Concern  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index lost 1.9 percent and China’s
Shanghai Composite Index tumbled 5.2 percent, the most since
August 2009, on concern the country will act to restrain its
economy.  “There’s talk of an interest-rate hike over the weekend,”
 Wu Kan , a Shanghai-based fund manager at Dazhong Insurance Co.,
which oversees $285 million. “It’s quite possible given how
inflation has accelerated.”  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average slid 1.4 percent, while
Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index declined 0.8 percent.  South Korea’s  Kospi Index  slipped 0.1 following yesterday’s
2.7 percent drop in the last few minutes of trading. The plunge
was spurred in part by computer-driven trades before the
expiration of options contracts.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China lost 3.1 percent to
HK$6.61 in Hong Kong and China Construction Bank Corp. fell 3.8
percent to HK$7.43.  China Citic Bank Corp.  dropped 5.8 percent
to 5.49 yuan in Shanghai.  China’s consumer prices rose 4.4 percent from a year
earlier, boosted by food costs, a statistics bureau report
showed in Beijing yesterday, more than the 4 percent median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 28 economists.  Goldman Says Exit  Inflation and policy risks will cloud “earnings
visibility” at China’s banks in 2011,  Alistair Scarff  and
Michael Li, analysts at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, wrote in
a report. Also, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. recommended clients
exit a bet that Hong Kong-listed companies in China will gain on
concern the central bank will raise borrowing costs to tame
inflation.  China Shenhua dropped 4.9 percent to HK$35.80. Aluminum
Corp. of China Ltd., the listed unit of the nation’s biggest
producer of the lightweight metal, declined 3.6 percent to
HK$7.46. PetroChina Co., China’s No. 1 oil producer, fell 2.3
percent to HK$10.26.  Commodity prices declined on concern monetary tightening
policies may slow demand. Oil fell for the first time in three
days, with the December futures contract losing as much as 1.2
percent. December-delivery copper dropped as much as 1.3 percent
to $3.9785 a pound on the Comex in New York.  ‘Stocks Face Pressure’  “Investors are pricing in the increasing likelihood that
the government will have to take more severe measures to check
consumer price gains,” said  Wang Zhihong , a strategist at
Datong Securities Co. “Stocks will face more pressure in the
short term.”  Banks were the  biggest drag  among the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index’s 10 industry groups today.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group declined 1.8 percent to 392
yen, reversing a gain of 5.8 percent in the past two days.
Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc., Japan’s second-biggest
bank by market value, dropped 1.8 percent to 2,509 yen.  Mizuho
Financial Group Inc. , the No. 3, fell 2.3 percent to 127 yen.  Bank Rally Reverses  Japanese banks fell after the Wall Street Journal, citing a
person close to the Financial Stability Board, reported Group of
20 leaders meeting in Seoul today may not exempt the nation’s
lenders from stricter capital requirements.  Today’s report contradicted one in the Financial Times on
Nov. 10 citing people briefed on the G20 agenda that said the
lenders might not have to comply with raised capital adequacy
ratio requirements. A gauge of bank shares in the  Topix Index 
rallied 6 percent in the past two days.  “There is speculation more stringent capital requirements
may be imposed on Asian banks,” said  Daphne Roth , head of Asian
equity research at ABN Amro Private Banking, which oversees
about $14 billion in the region.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  increased 11 percent this year
to yesterday, compared with gains of 8.8 percent by the S&P 500
and 6.9 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks in the
Asian benchmark are valued at 14.5 times estimated earnings on
average, compared with 14.3 times for the S&P 500 and 12.2 times
for the Stoxx 600.  Genting Tumbles  Genting Singapore Plc, the owner of one of two casinos in
the city-state, slumped 6.6 percent to S$2.13 in Singapore, the
 biggest decline  and the second-most active by volume on the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. lowered its rating on the stock to
“neutral” from “overweight,” saying the company’s third-
quarter  earnings  were “slightly disappointing.” The company
said third-quarter net income was S$187.8 million ($145 million),
compared with a loss of S$93.3 million a year earlier.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  slid 1.2 percent,
the most since Oct. 19. The index declined 0.4 percent yesterday
after Cisco Systems and Walt Disney Co. missed analyst estimates
and concern over Europe’s debt crisis intensified.  “Cisco’s earnings report brings to light some of the costs
associated with lower government spending,” said  Anthony Danaher , president of California-based Guild Investment
Management Inc., which helps oversee $125 million. “Austerity
and fiscal conservatism in the developed world will bring
pain.”  To contact the reporters for this story:
 Anna Kitanaka  in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Burgos  in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 