-- Japan Growth Probably Peaked as Yen Weighs on Expansion
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e   a n d   T h e r e s a   B a r r a c l o u g h
-- 2010-11-12T03:02:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/japan-growth-probably-peaked-last-quarter-as-yen-gain-weighed-on-expansion.html
Japan’s expansion may slow toward
the end of this year after getting a temporary boost in the
third quarter as a surging yen crimps exports and fading
stimulus measures force consumers to pare outlays.  Gross domestic product  grew at an annualized 2.5 percent in
the three months ended Sept. 30, following a 1.5 percent
expansion in the previous quarter, according to the median
forecast of 21 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The
Cabinet Office will release the report at 8:50 a.m. on Nov. 15.  Third-quarter growth driven by consumer spending will be
followed by an economic contraction this quarter, analysts
including  Yoshiki Shinke  forecast. That may increase pressure on
Bank of Japan Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  to buy more assets to
support growth and beat deflation.  “There’s a high chance that the economy will shrink
considerably in the fourth quarter as a huge pull-back in
consumer spending is expected and as export growth continues to
slow,” said Shinke, senior economist at Dai-Ichi Life Research
Institute in Tokyo. “The third-quarter growth was pushed up by
a temporary lift that won’t be sustainable.”  Japan’s economic growth may slow to a 0.3 percent annual
pace in the October-December period, according to a separate
survey of economists, with seven of 15 of them predicting GDP
will shrink.  Program Expiry  Consumer spending , which makes up about 60 percent of the
GDP, drove last quarter’s expansion as households stepped up
purchases of fuel-efficient vehicles ahead of the program’s
expiry in September and smokers stocked up on tobacco before
taxes were increased on Oct. 1. Outlays probably rose 0.9
percent from the previous three months, when they were flat,
according to the Bloomberg News survey.  The gains in spending at home helped counter the first
decline in overseas shipments in six quarters.  Net exports , or
shipments less imports, cut 0.1 percentage point of GDP in the
third quarter, according to economists surveyed.  The looming fourth-quarter slowdown is “a man-made
disaster” caused by short-sighted policy decisions, said
 Ryutaro Kono , chief economist at BNP Paribas in Tokyo. “While
no one denies that green car subsidies were a major boost to
automobile sales, the stimulus didn’t create any added value,”
Kono said. “All it did was to rob demand from the future.”  Stimulus Fallout  The fallout from the stimulus, coupled with the stronger
yen, may compel the central bank to loosen credit even after it
cut rates  near zero  last month and introduced a 5 trillion-yen
($61 billion) asset purchase program. Shirakawa needs to
consider expanding the fund to between at least 20 trillion to
25 trillion yen, said  Koichi Hamada , a Yale University professor
who taught the governor at Tokyo University.  A further strengthening in the yen and continued price
falls after the BOJ’s Oct. 5 move suggest the measure may be
“too little and too late” and “far insufficient,” Hamada
said in an interview on Nov. 10.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s Cabinet last month endorsed a
5.1 trillion yen stimulus package and has extended its incentive
program to buy energy-saving household appliances by three
months to end on March 31. Funding for those measures may be
held up in the opposition-controlled upper house of parliament.  Threatening Earnings  The yen climbed to 80.22 against the dollar on Nov. 1, the
highest level since April 1995, and traded at 82.39 at 12:01 p.m.
in Tokyo today. The Japanese currency has gained 4 percent since
authorities tried to stem the yen’s advance by intervening in
currency markets on Sept. 15, threatening earnings of exporters
from  Toyota Motor Corp.  to  Nikon Corp.   Toyota, the world’s largest carmaker, revised its outlook
for the Japanese currency to 85 yen against the dollar from 90
yen. Nikon, a Japanese maker of cameras, lenses and chip-making
equipment, cut its full-year operating profit and revenue
forecasts last week, citing a stronger yen.  Government reports in the past month show  industrial
production  slumped by more than double the pace economists
forecast in September and  exports  grew at the slowest pace this
year. The central bank also lowered its economic assessment this
month, describing the expansion as “pausing.”  Companies plan to step up investment in plant and equipment
based on improved earnings.  Business spending  gained 0.7 percent
in the third quarter, compared with a 1.5 percent increase in
the second quarter, the survey of economists showed.  “Capital spending will likely increase moderately as a V-
shaped recovery in corporate profits is continuing,” said  Junko Nishioka , chief economist at RBS Securities Japan Ltd. in Tokyo.
“Japan’s economic growth will probably slow in the fourth
quarter, but a double-dip recession is unlikely.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keiko Ujikane  in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net ;
 Theresa Barraclough  in Tokyo at 
 tbarraclough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  