-- King Signals U.K. Inflation Is `Obstruction' to More Stimulus
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2010-11-11T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/king-signals-inflation-is-obstruction-to-more-bank-of-england-stimulus.html
Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King ’s forecast for persistent inflation led economists to
speculate that policy makers are reversing their shift toward
adding more  stimulus .  King yesterday unveiled officials’ higher predictions for
inflation next year and said it is equally likely to exceed or
undershoot the 2 percent target in two years. With evidence the
bank is becoming more concerned on consumer prices after
fretting about the threat of deflation since 2008, the pound
climbed and the 10-year gilt  yield  rose the most in six months.  “The thing that surprised the market was the near-term
inflation projection,” said  Alan Clarke , an economist at BNP
Paribas in London. “The door is open to more quantitative
easing, but the near-term inflation is a massive obstruction.
The risks are QE could be delayed or cancelled.”  With  inflation  above the government’s 3 percent limit and
economic growth rebounding in the strongest two consecutive
quarters for a decade, the Bank of England last week declined to
follow the U.S. Federal Reserve in adding stimulus. That halted
U.K. policy makers’ creep toward extending aid after a widening
debate that King described yesterday as “vigorous.”  The bank’s forecasts showed inflation, at 3.1 percent in
September, may stay above the goal through 2011 because of an
increase in sales taxes and higher commodity costs. It suggested
the recovery can weather Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s  budget
squeeze  that will cut 490,000 public-sector jobs.  King said that there is a “high probability” inflation
will exceed the 3 percent limit long enough for him to have to
write a letter of explanation to finance minister  George Osborne 
after three sent so far this year.  Market Reaction  The pound rose as much as 0.8 percent against the dollar
after the release of the inflation report and was at $1.6084 as
of 5.30 p.m. yesterday in London. The yield on the benchmark 10-
year government bond gained the most since May 7, climbing as
much as 15 basis points, and closed at 3.156 percent. The U.K.
10-year breakeven rate rose 4 basis points to 290 basis points,
the biggest one-day gain since Oct. 12.  “It’s a sea change” relative to the previous reports
during and after the recession, said  David Tinsley , an economist
at National Australia Bank in London and a former Bank of England
official. Compared with previous inflation reports in the past
year “where markets had been surprised on the dovish side,” it
was “the reverse this time,” he said.  The central bank said its near-term inflation forecast is
higher compared with its last quarterly economic predictions
released in August, and that consumer-price growth will exceed
the goal through 2011. The bank also said it “stood ready to
respond in either direction as the balance of risks evolved.”  BOE Split  The bank’s nine-member Monetary Policy Committee last week
kept its  bond-purchase plan  at 200 billion pounds ($321 billion)
and its interest rate at a record low of 0.5 percent. Officials
said in October that further stimulus was becoming more likely.
They split three ways as  Andrew Sentance  called for higher
interest rates to combat inflation,  Adam Posen  pushed for more
stimulus to sustain the recovery, and the rest sought no change.  “It sounds as though the dovish caucus of the committee is
quite a bit smaller than we thought and King is a bit less
dovish,” said  Neville Hill , an economist at Credit Suisse Group
AG in London and a former U.K. Treasury official. “There needs
to be a clear perception that the economy has deteriorated
seriously from where we were in order to see more QE.”  While the economy expanded 0.8 percent in the third
quarter, more than economists forecast, there have still been
some signs that the recovery may be faltering even before the
government’s budget cuts take effect.  ‘Challenging’ Environment  Retail sales unexpectedly fell in September and jobless
claims rose the most in eight months. The Bank of England says
that the housing market has shown “a weakening in demand” and
J Sainsbury Plc, the U.K.’s third-biggest supermarket company,
said yesterday that it expects the “economic environment to
remain challenging.”  “The growth risks are still immense and we shouldn’t just
suddenly start moving from dove to hawk,” said  Brian Hilliard ,
an economist at Societe Generale in London and a former central
bank official. Still, yesterday’s report caused a “washing
out” among investors of “the hope or expectation in the short
term of more QE.”  National Australia Bank’s Tinsley said the Bank of
England’s shift may continue in the coming months as it raises
its inflation forecast again to re-establish “credibility”
with investors.  “They’ve consistently underestimated inflation,” he said.
“We’d been saying that they wouldn’t do more quantitative
easing” and the bank’s report “further underlines that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  