-- South Korea Regulators Probe Last-Minute Stock Selloff
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2010-11-12T07:07:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/korean-stocks-may-rebound-after-last-minute-selloff-on-electronic-trading.html
South Korean financial regulators
and the nation’s stock exchange operator are investigating the
cause of yesterday’s plunge in the Kospi Index, including sell
orders made through Deutsche Bank AG’s local brokerage.  South Korean  stocks  erased an early rally, with the Kospi
falling 0.1 percent at 1,913.12 at the close, as regional stocks
fell amid speculation that China will increase interest rates to
curb inflation. The Korean stock gauge climbed as much as 2.3
percent on the Korea Exchange. The  Kosdaq  index, comprising
mostly technology companies, lost 2.8 percent.  The Financial Supervisory Service and the nation’s bourse
operator are jointly probing the reasons for the selloff in the
final minutes of trading yesterday, Kim Soo Mi, a spokeswoman
for the financial regulator, said today by phone from Seoul.
About 1.6 trillion won ($1.4 billion) worth of sell orders were
made through  Deutsche Bank’s  local brokerage yesterday, the
financial regulator said in an e-mailed statement.  “The selloffs, most of which orders were made through
Deutsche, grasped investors by surprise,” said  Chang In Whan ,
president of Seoul-based KTB Asset Management Co., which
oversees the equivalent of $9.9 billion. “Nobody had expected
unwinding of positions of this magnitude.”  Scrutiny of equity-market swings has intensified since May
6, when a 20-minute drop in U.S.  equities  briefly erased $862
billion of market value. A transaction in Standard & Poor’s 500
Index futures helped spur the retreat, the Securities and
Exchange Commission and Commodity Futures Trading Commission
said in an Oct. 1 report.  Unfair Trades  “We’re investigating what caused the drop, and whether
there were any unfair trades,” Korea Exchange said in an e-
mailed statement today.  The Kospi plunged 48 points to 1,914.73 between 2:59 p.m.
and 3:01 p.m. yesterday in Seoul after stock sales that Korea
Exchange said were spurred in part by computer-driven trades
before the expiration of  options  contracts. Deutsche Bank AG’s
South Korean securities unit was the biggest  broker  of sell
orders in all 20 of the most-heavily weighted stocks in the
Kospi yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Deutsche Bank’s Singapore-based spokesman  Mark Bennewith 
declined to comment. Korea Exchange said in a statement on its
website that the market fell due to “program” selling.  London Stock Exchange Group Plc’s Turquoise trading venue
stopped operating for two hours on Nov. 2, with the bourse
citing human error that “may have occurred in suspicious
circumstances.”  ‘One-Day Event’  The Kospi  fluctuated  between gains and losses for most of
yesterday’s trading session before tumbling in the final
minutes. The Kospi’s 2.7 percent retreat was the biggest decline
among world equity gauges tracked by Bloomberg and pared the
index’s gain this year to 14 percent. China’s  Shanghai Composite
Index  climbed 1 percent yesterday while benchmark indexes in
Taiwan and  Indonesia  fell less than 0.4 percent.  Global equities retreated after the Kospi’s close yesterday
amid concern indebted European nations may need bailouts.  The
MSCI All-Country World Index  of shares in emerging and developed
countries dropped as much as 0.7 percent.  “I don’t think that you can read anything into this one-
day event” in South Korea, said  Taina Erajuuri , who helps
manage the equivalent of $1.2 billion of emerging-market stocks
at Helsinki-based Fim Asset Management.  Samsung, Posco  A record 39.3 million options contracts on the  Kospi 200
Index  traded yesterday as overseas investors sold a record net
1.34 trillion won ($1.2 billion) of shares, Korea Exchange said.
Stock markets are often volatile on days when options expire as
traders switch into longer-dated contracts and buy or sell
stocks to hedge their holdings.  Samsung Electronics Co. , the nation’s biggest company by
market value, gained 1.4 percent today, while  Hyundai Motor Co. ,
the largest automaker, fell 0.3 percent. The stocks contributed
the  most  to the Kospi’s 2.7 percent drop yesterday that erased
about $26 billion of market value.  Posco , the largest
steelmaker, rose 2.2 percent.  Some sales of South Korean stocks yesterday may reflect
concern that policy makers will intervene in the currency market
to weaken the won, eroding returns for foreign investors,
according to Shinyoung Securities Co.  The won dropped 1.5 percent to 1,124.76 per dollar as of
1:15 p.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
currency reached a six-month high of 1,102.98 on Nov. 5.  “The key to future moves is the currency,” said Han Joo
Sung, a derivatives analyst at Shinyoung Securities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net . 