-- Najib Seeks World Bank Help to Cut Malaysia Spending, Trim Budget Deficit
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i   a n d   B a r r y   P o r t e r
-- 2010-11-11T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/najib-seeks-world-bank-help-to-cut-malaysia-spending-trim-budget-deficit.html
Malaysia will ask the World Bank to
help in the country’s efforts to cut government spending as
Prime Minister  Najib Razak  seeks to reduce the budget deficit
from a 22-year high.  The nation is asking the Washington-based lender to review
all areas of government expenditure, including how state
contracts are awarded, to prevent waste from inefficiency,
Second Finance Minister  Ahmad Husni Hanadzlah  said in an
interview in Kuala Lumpur yesterday. Malaysia hopes the study
will bolster the government’s credibility, he said.  “We just want a third party as a check and balance,” said
Ahmad Husni, 58. An annual audit of spending at state agencies
has shown “some negative findings and we hope that with the
involvement of the World Bank, in the future we can see a clean
sheet,” he said.  Narrowing the fiscal gap that dates to the Asian financial
crisis more than a decade ago would help boost chances of
lifting Malaysia’s credit rating, which is currently below that
of China and Taiwan. Greater confidence in the Southeast Asian
nation’s finances may also help bolster Najib’s efforts to lure
investment and rejuvenate an economy that may be overtaken by
neighboring Singapore this year.  Growth slowed to an average 4.7 percent a year in the past
decade from 7.2 percent in the 1990s, when then-Prime Minister
 Mahathir Mohamad  developed highways and built the world’s
tallest twin towers.  Halving Gap  Najib, 57, plans to halve the budget gap in the next five
years by cutting subsidies, widening the tax base and reducing
expenses, according to a five-year plan he unveiled in June that
targeted a shortfall of 2.8 percent of GDP in 2015. The finance
ministry expects the budget gap to narrow to 5.4 percent of GDP
in 2011 from 5.6 percent this year.  Still, the prime minister refrained from detailing plans to
reduce subsidies further or introduce a goods and services tax
in his Oct. 15 budget speech.  “There was criticism that Malaysia was too light on
reducing operational expenses,” said  Vishnu Varathan , an
economist at Capital Economics in Singapore. “Malaysia wants to
show that efforts to reduce the budget deficit will be addressed
promptly and that’s why they are seeking the help of an
international organization.”  The government is also doing a study with a consultant to
recover an estimated 5 billion ringgit ($1.6 billion) in revenue
that it believes it’s failed to collect, Ahmad Husni said. He
didn’t say where the additional funds will come from.  Credit Rating  Last year’s budget shortfall of 7 percent of gross domestic
product was the biggest since 1987, and the country hasn’t had a
surplus since 1997. Standard & Poor’s rates the country’s debt
A-, the fourth-lowest investment grade that places the Asian
nation below China, Hong Kong, Taiwan and Singapore.  Malaysia’s credit standing “is constrained by its weak
fiscal position,” S&P said in June.  The country said in October it will further postpone the
implementation of a goods and services levy intended to broaden
the tax base. Najib trimmed subsidies for sugar, gasoline,
diesel and liquefied petroleum gas in July to save more than 750
million ringgit in government expenditure. Malaysia spends about
73 billion ringgit a year on subsidies, he said in April.  The reduction in subsidies will be done gradually,  Idris Jala , a minister in the Prime Minister’s department, said in an
interview in Putrajaya, outside Kuala Lumpur, yesterday. The
government aims to keep inflation below 4 percent even as prices
rise with the subsidy cuts, he said.  Singapore Overtakes  Singapore’s GDP will rise as much as 15 percent to about
$210 billion, while the economy of Malaysia will expand 7
percent to $205 billion, government forecasts show.  In September, Malaysia’s government unveiled private
sector-led projects worth $444 billion that it said can spur
investment. The country plans to build six highways, a mass-
transit rail system and a 100-floor, 5 billion-ringgit tower in
and around the Kuala Lumpur.  Gamuda Bhd . and MMC Corp., which proposed the mass-transit
system, will likely be the master planners, assuming they come
up with the best pricing, Ahmad Husni said. Once approved, the
project will be broken down into smaller packages that will be
tendered openly, he said.  The economy may expand 5 percent to 6 percent next year
after growing 7 percent in 2010, according to the Ministry of
Finance. Husni said the country aims to achieve 6 percent growth
next year.  The World Bank said this week Asian economies may need to
turn to capital controls as quantitative easing by the U.S.
threatens to spur asset bubbles in the region.  Malaysia isn’t considering capital controls for now, though
the central bank is monitoring inflows and officials at a recent
Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation meeting discussed the idea of
joint, “multilateral” measures in the future should the need
arise, Ahmad Husni said.  “We are benefiting from the capital inflows and the
appreciation of the ringgit,” he said. “It’s not affecting our
property market like many other countries.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Soraya Permatasari  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net ;
 Barry Porter  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at   canstey@bloomberg.net  