-- Netanyahu, Clinton Vow to Keep Working to Revive Middle East Peace Talks
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 2010-11-12T01:38:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/netanyahu-clinton-vow-to-keep-working-to-revive-middle-east-peace-talks.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  and U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said their
countries will continue to “work closely in the coming days”
to break the impasse in Middle East peace talks.  After eight hours of meetings yesterday in New York,
Clinton and Netanyahu issued a joint statement that gave no
indication progress was made in getting Netanyahu and
Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  back to the
bargaining table.  In discussions “focused on creating the conditions” for
renewed negotiations, the statement said the leaders had a
“friendly and productive exchange of views.” Clinton
reiterated the U.S.’s “unshakable commitment to Israel’s
security” while stressing the “Palestinian goal of an
independent and viable state.”  Even without a breakthrough, the length of Clinton’s
meeting with the Israeli leader was unusual and shows the extent
of the U.S. effort to keep the peace process moving,  David Makovsky , head of the project on the Middle East peace process
at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy, said in a
telephone interview.  “It’s a testament to dogged U.S. commitment on the
issue,” he said. “Whether she has been successful is too soon
to know.”  The meeting, with U.S. Middle East special envoy  George Mitchell  joining in, comes two days after the U.S. criticized
Israel’s plans for new settlements in east Jerusalem.  Obama Criticism  President  Barack Obama  on Nov. 9 called Israeli plans to
build hundreds of new homes in east Jerusalem not “helpful when
it comes to peace negotiations.” Netanyahu said Israel has the
right to build everywhere in the city.  “There is a fundamental disconnect at the moment between
U.S. and Israeli priorities and strategies” on how to deal with
the Palestinians and with Iran’s growing regional influence and
nuclear ambitions, said  Haim Malka , deputy director of the
Middle East program at the  Center for Strategic and
International Studies  in Washington.  Netanyahu believes that agreeing to the idea of a
Palestinian state and a partial settlement freeze that ended in
September were significant concessions that should have brought
the Palestinians to direct talks, Malka said in an e-mail.
Israelis are skeptical that additional concessions will change
the Palestinian negotiating position or lead to an agreement
that strengthens Israel’s security, he said.  Cantor Meeting  While Obama’s Democratic administration criticized the
Israeli construction plans, Netanyahu met Nov. 10 in New York
with Representative  Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican who is in
line to become majority leader when his party takes control of
the U.S. House in January.  Cantor “has a long-standing friendship” with Netanyahu
and spent more than an hour with the prime minister in New York,
where Cantor “made clear that the Republican majority
understands the special relationship between Israel and the
United States, and that the security of each nation is reliant
upon the other,” according to an e-mailed statement from the
congressman’s spokesman,  Brad Dayspring .  Cantor “reiterated his belief that compromise between
Israel and the Palestinians can only be achieved through direct
negotiations between the parties” and said Obama’s
administration “should make absolutely clear” that the U.S.
will veto any measure in the United Nations about establishing a
Palestinian state, the statement said.  Talks Stalled  Direct peace talks between Israel and the Palestinian
Authority that started with a White House ceremony on Sept. 1
stalled less than a month later when a partial 10-month Israeli
moratorium on West Bank building ended and Abbas said he
wouldn’t continue talks unless construction stopped.  Palestinians seek the eastern sector of the city, captured
by Israel in the 1967 Middle East war, as the capital of their
state. Israel annexed the area in a move never recognized
internationally.  Clinton said on Nov. 10 that the U.S. was “deeply
disappointed” by the announcement of plans for new housing
units in what she called “sensitive areas in east Jerusalem.”
She called it “counterproductive to our efforts to resume
negotiations between the parties.”  Abbas, speaking in Ramallah yesterday, urged Israel “not
to miss the chance to make peace,” while repeating his
insistence that West Bank building stop before talks can resume.  Palestinian leaders said they will seek recognition of an
independent state from the United Nations Security Council if
Israel doesn’t stop building in the West Bank and parts of
Jerusalem captured in the 1967 war.  ‘Way Overblown’  In a Nov. 9 interview with Bloomberg Television, Netanyahu
said Palestinian complaints about Israeli settlement
construction were “a minor issue” that has become “way
overblown.”  On Nov. 10, the day before she met with Netanyahu, Clinton
said the U.S. was giving $150 million in aid to the cash-
strapped Palestinian Authority, an advance on the $200 million
requested in fiscal 2011.  The grant “underscores the strong determination of the
American people and of this administration to stand with our
Palestinian friends even during difficult economic times as we
have here at home,” Clinton said during a video conference with
Palestinian Authority Prime Minister  Salam Fayyad .  About 500,000 Jews have moved to the West Bank and
Jerusalem since Israel captured the territories in the 1967
Middle East war. The UN says the settlements are illegal, and
the International Committee of the Red Cross says they breach
the  Fourth Geneva Convention  governing actions on occupied
territory.  Israel says the settlements don’t fall under the convention
because the territory wasn’t recognized as belonging to any
country before the 1967 war, in which Israel prevailed, and
therefore isn’t occupied.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan Ferziger  in New York at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
 Peter S. Green  in New York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in Jerusalem at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  