-- Netanyahu Meets Clinton Amid Pressure to Restart Middle East Peace Talks
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 2010-11-11T19:57:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/netanyahu-meets-clinton-amid-pressure-to-restart-middle-east-peace-talks.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  and U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  met for
more than four hours today, discussing how to revive peace
negotiations with the Palestinian Authority.  Clinton and Netanyahu met one-on-one for two hours this
morning in a New York hotel before aides, including U.S. Middle
East special envoy  George Mitchell , joined the discussions,
Israeli and U.S. officials said. The discussions come two days
after the U.S. criticized Israel’s plans for new housing in east
Jerusalem.  Before entering the closed-door meeting, Netanyahu said he
and Clinton “will be talking about how to resume and continue
this process to get a historic agreement between us and the
Palestinians.” Clinton said that “we’re going to be talking
about everything.”  President  Barack Obama  on Nov. 9 called Israeli plans to
build hundreds of new homes in east Jerusalem not “helpful when
it comes to peace negotiations.” Netanyahu said Israel has the
right to build everywhere in the city.  It will be difficult for Netanyahu and Clinton to make
significant progress today, said  Haim Malka , deputy director of
the Middle East program at the  Center for Strategic and
International Studies  in Washington.  ‘Fundamental Disconnect’  “There is a fundamental disconnect at the moment between
U.S. and Israeli priorities and strategies” on how to deal with
the Palestinians and with Iran’s growing regional influence and
nuclear ambitions, Malka said. “It’s difficult to see how the
two sides emerge satisfied on either issue.”  Netanyahu believes that agreeing to the idea of a
Palestinian state and a partial settlement freeze that ended in
September were significant concessions that should have brought
the Palestinians to direct talks, Malka said.  Israelis are skeptical that additional concessions will
change the Palestinian negotiating position or lead to an
agreement that strengthens Israel’s security, he said in an e-
mail.  Direct peace talks between Israel and the Palestinian
Authority that started with a White House ceremony on Sept. 1
stalled less than a month later when a partial 10-month Israeli
moratorium on West Bank building ended and Palestinian Authority
President  Mahmoud Abbas  said he wouldn’t continue talks unless
construction stopped.  Palestinians seek the eastern sector of the city, captured
by Israel in the 1967 Middle East war, as the capital of their
state. Israel annexed the area in a move never recognized
internationally.  ‘Deeply Disappointed’  Clinton said yesterday that the U.S. was “deeply
disappointed” by the announcement of plans for new housing
units in what she called “sensitive areas in east Jerusalem.”
She called it “counterproductive to our efforts to resume
negotiations between the parties.”  Abbas, speaking in Ramallah today, urged Israel “not to
miss the chance to make peace,” while repeating his insistence
that West Bank building stop before talks could resume.  Palestinian leaders said they will seek recognition of an
independent state from the United Nations Security Council if
Israel doesn’t stop building in the West Bank and parts of
Jerusalem captured in the 1967 war.  In a Nov. 9 interview with Bloomberg Television, Netanyahu
said Palestinian complaints about Israeli settlement
construction were “a minor issue” that has become “way
overblown.”  Aid to Palestinians  Before meeting with Netanyahu, Clinton yesterday said the
U.S. gave $150 million in aid to the cash-strapped Palestinian
Authority, an advance on the $200 million requested in fiscal
2011.  The grant “underscores the strong determination of the
American people and of this administration to stand with our
Palestinian friends even during difficult economic times as we
have here at home,” Clinton said during a video conference with
Palestinian Authority Prime Minister  Salam Fayyad .  About 500,000 Jews have moved to the West Bank and
Jerusalem since Israel captured the territories in the 1967
Middle East war. The UN says the settlements are illegal, and
the International Committee of the Red Cross says they breach
the Fourth Geneva Convention governing actions on occupied
territory.  Israel says the settlements don’t fall under the convention
because the territory wasn’t recognized as belonging to any
country before the 1967 war, in which Israel prevailed, and
therefore isn’t occupied.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan Ferziger  in New York at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
 Peter S. Green  in New York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in Jerusalem at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  