-- Level 3 Gains on Netflix Streaming, Storage Contract
-- B y   G r e g   B e n s i n g e r
-- 2010-11-11T21:16:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/netflix-signs-multi-year-deal-with-level-3-to-provide-streaming-storage.html
Level 3 Communications Inc.  jumped
in Nasdaq trading after winning a contract to provide video-
streaming and storage services to  Netflix Inc. , the mail-order
and online movie-rental company.  Netflix, based in Los Gatos, California, will begin moving
its 20,000 movie titles to Level 3’s storage this month,
according to a statement today. Level 3 will provide streaming
services starting Jan. 1.  “This win is likely to be meaningful to incremental
revenue growth for the company, which Level 3 very much needs,”
said  Jennifer Fritzsche , a Wells Fargo & Co. analyst in Chicago.
She estimates the agreement will be worth about 5 percent of
Level 3’s revenue.  Netflix predicts its subscribers will increase to 19
million by year-end, according to the statement. It added 1.93
million subscribers in the third quarter to 16.9 million.  Level 3, based in Broomfield, Colorado, said it will double
its storage capacity to help accommodate the new contract. The
company’s shares rose 9 cents, or 8.7 percent, to $1.12 at 4
p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market  trading .  Netflix said this week that it was “satisfied” with the
video-streaming service now provided by  Akamai Technologies Inc. 
Dan Rayburn, a Frost & Sullivan analyst, said he expected
Netflix to end its relationship with Akamai.  “Akamai will continue to provide a large percentage of
Netflix’s video-streaming services,” said  Jeff Young , a
spokesman for the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Akamai. He said
there were no changes to a three-year contract with Netflix that
took effect in March.  Portion of Traffic  The contract between Level 3 and Netflix will last three
years, beginning last month, Mark Taylor, Level 3 vice president
of content and media, said in an e-mailed statement. “We have
had varying proportions of their traffic,” he said, without
providing details.  Steve Swasey , a Netflix spokesman, declined to comment
beyond the release.  Netflix shares fell $1.73, less than 1 percent, to $175.14
and Akamai dropped $1.41, or 2.7 percent, to $50.44.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Bensinger  in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  