-- Swiss Stocks Retreat for Third Day; UBS, Swiss Re Lead Slide
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2010-11-11T16:46:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/novartis-huber-suhner-bcv-xstrata-and-gategroup-swiss-equity-preview.html
Swiss stocks fell for a third day as
banks retreated because of concern that the peripheral nations
of the euro area will fail to repay their debts.  UBS AG, Switzerland’s biggest bank, dropped 0.9 percent to
its lowest price in a week. Swiss Reinsurance Co. declined 1.7
percent as regulators were said to be considering tighter rules
for insurers. Holcim Ltd. slid 2.3 percent.  The benchmark  Swiss Market Index  of the country’s biggest
stocks slipped 0.4 percent to 6,516.99 at the 5:30 p.m. close in
Zurich. Even so, the gauge has climbed 9.7 percent since July as
concern eased that the global economic recovery may stall. The
broader  Swiss Performance Index  also lost 0.4 percent today.  Portuguese and Spanish government bonds declined as concern
mounted that both European economies will have to restructure
their debt. The cost of insuring Irish debt against default rose
20 basis points to a record.  “Falling bond markets have affected equities in
Switzerland and across Europe, but we feel that the EU can
handle the debt situation in Ireland and Portugal. It should be
a short-term effect with some investors using it as an excuse to
take profits from stock markets that have been overbought,”
said  Roland Armbruster , analyst at the Basler Kantonalbank.  UBS slid 0.9 percent to 16.97 Swiss francs.  Swiss Re, the world’s second-largest reinsurer, declined
1.7 percent to 50.20 francs. Global regulators may count
insurers and companies that process financial trades among the
institutions that they consider too big to fail, two people
close to the discussions said.  Safeguard the Economy  The Financial Stability Board and the Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision may include insurers and clearinghouses in
measures to protect the world economy from crises at so-called
systemically important financial institutions, said the people,
who declined to be identified because the talks are private.  Holcim lost 2.3 percent to 65 francs. Credit Suisse Group
AG analyst  Harry Goad  cut his price target for the shares to 58
francs from 60 francs after the world’s second-biggest cement
maker yesterday reported earnings that trailed estimates.  “The group’s three largest markets by cement capacity are
experiencing tough conditions, compounded by persisting problems
in peripheral Europe,” Goad wrote in a report.  Transocean Ltd. added 2 percent to 68 francs as crude oil
rallied. West Texas Intermediate futures have increased 8
percent since Oct. 29.  Xstrata Plc  soared 4.9 percent to 22.30 francs as BofA
Merrill Lynch Global Research increased its rating on the mining
company to “buy” from “neutral,” saying the outlook for
metals demand and prices has improved.  Gategroup Holding AG  surged 4.3 percent to 47 francs. The
airline catering company said its Gate Gourmet unit agreed to
form a joint venture with India Hospitality Corp., giving it a
majority interest in Indian airline caterer Skygourmet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Giles Broom  in Zurich at
   gbroom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt in London at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 