-- U.S., South Korea Fail to Agree on Trade Pact on Cars, Beef
-- B y   B o m i   L i m   a n d   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 2010-11-11T09:35:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/obama-lee-fail-to-reach-korean-trade-accord-talks-to-resume-after-g-20.html
President  Barack Obama  and his South
Korean counterpart  Lee Myung Bak  failed to reach agreement on a
free-trade accord as the two nations wrangled over automobile
and beef imports to Asia’s fourth-biggest economy.  Talks will resume after the Group of 20 meeting in Seoul,
where world leaders are at odds over how to avoid trade
imbalances and manage currency discord, Obama and Lee said at a
joint press conference in the South Korean capital.  “If we rush something that can’t garner popular support
that’s going to be a problem,” said Obama. “We think we can
make the case, but we want to make sure that case is air
tight.”  Ford Motor Co.  and the United Auto Workers union are
leading opposition to the trade accord in the U.S., citing the
need to address South Korea’s tax and regulatory regimes. Beef
imports to the Asian nation, restricted since 2003 when the U.S.
discovered its first case of mad cow disease, sparked street
protests by tens of thousands of people when Lee tried to ease
curbs in 2008.  Obama has shied away from pushing through Congress trade
pacts approved by President  George W. Bush  in 2007 with South
Korea, Colombia and Panama amid high unemployment and opposition
from some fellow Democrats and the party’s supporters in
organized labor. Progress on these agreements may help kick-
start the stalled Doha round of global trade talks,  William Toppeta , president of MetLife Inc.’s international business,
said in Seoul today.  ‘One Wish’  “The world is awash in capital but it’s not being
deployed,” Toppeta said. “If the genie gives me one wish, I’m
going to choose the trade issue over the currency issue.”  Obama had said in June he would like to see the deal
completed by his visit to Seoul for the summit, a commitment he
reaffirmed in a Nov. 2 telephone conversation with  Lee .  Automobiles and beef are the main sticking points, U.S.
Trade Representative  Ron Kirk  told reporters. He had held talks
with his South Korean counterpart since Monday in Seoul.  “The most important thing is we remain committed to
completing what would be a very economically compelling free
trade agreement,” Kirk said. “I like to think we’re closer to
the end.”  Two-Way Trade  With almost $68 billion in two-way trade between the
nations, the deal would be the U.S.’s largest free-trade accord
since the North American Free Trade Agreement in 1994 and could
Obama meet his goal of doubling American exports in five years.  “The short-term effect of the FTA will help Korea more
than the U.S. because whatever you do for American auto
manufacturers, they are not going to sell more of their cars in
Korea,” said  Tony Michell , president of the Korea Associates
Business Consultancy in Seoul.  U.S. carmakers, facing an 8 percent tariff in South Korea,
sent only 6,140 autos to the nation last year. U.S. market share
in South Korea slid to 10.1 percent of imported car sales last
year, from 11.3 percent in 2008, according to  Korea Automobile
Importers and Distributors Association . European cars held a 62
percent share of the imports market in 2009, with Japanese
brands on 28 percent.  Hyundai Motor Co., South Korea’s largest automaker and
affiliate  Kia Motors Corp. , raised their combined share of the
U.S. market to 7.9 percent this year from 4.8 percent in 2007.  Without Delay  American beef exporters have pushed the Obama
administration and Congress to approve the trade pact without
delay rather than hold out for concessions, for fear of losing
market share to Australian and Canadian competitors.  South Korea restricts U.S. beef imports to meat from cows
that are younger than 30 months, which account for more than 90
percent of U.S. beef exports, to lower any risk for mad-cow
disease, or bovine spongiform encephalopathy.  Under the terms agreed in 2007, the FTA would phase out
South Korea’s 40 percent tariff on U.S. beef over 15 years. This
would increase the competitiveness of American farmers and may
help them recover lost market share, said Jeong Min Kook, an
agricultural economist at the Korea Rural Economic Institute in
Seoul.  Beef Exports  South Korea bought 246,595 tons of U.S. beef valued at $815
million in 2003, making it the third-biggest U.S. export market
for the meat behind Japan and Mexico, according to data on the
website of the  U.S. Meat Export Federation . It imported 186,451
metric tons in the first nine months of this year, with
Australia supplying the largest amount, followed by the U.S.,
according to data from the  Korea Meat Trade  Association. U.S.
beef accounted for 37 percent of imports, according to the data.  South Korea’s trade surplus with the U.S. will widen by
$463 million annually over 10 years, helped by increased exports
of automobiles, electronics and textiles, after the pact,
according to a 2007 study by South Korean think tanks, including
the Korea Institute for International Economic Policy. The
nation’s agricultural imports from the U.S. will grow $370
million annually over 15 years, led by pork and beef, according
to the study.  South Korea reported a trade surplus of $8.6 billion with
the U.S. in 2009, with $37.6 billion in exports, according to
the Korea International Trade Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  