-- Obama Says Economic Growth `Most Important' Step for US Deficit Reduction
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2010-11-11T07:52:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/obama-says-economic-growth-most-important-step-for-us-deficit-reduction.html
President  Barack Obama  said that
creating growth in the U.S. economy is the most important step
he can take to cut the deficit and warned against “shooting
down proposals” from his deficit commission until their work is
complete.  If the U.S. boosts “economic growth by 1 percentage point
over time that could have as much impact as completely
eliminating the Bush tax cuts,” Obama said at a news conference
today in Seoul, where he met with South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  and is attending a summit of the Group of 20. He was
referring to tax reductions implemented by former President
 George W. Bush .  “The single most important thing we can do to reduce our
debt and deficits is to grow,” Obama said.  The co-chairman of a commission set up by Obama proposed a
$3.8 trillion  deficit -cutting plan yesterday that would cut
Social Security and Medicare, reduce income-tax rates and
eliminate tax breaks including the mortgage-interest deduction.
Its release sparked opposition from Democrats, some Republicans
and groups such as the Mortgage Bankers Association and the
Aerospace Industries Association.  Democratic House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  called the targeting
of Social Security and Medicare “simply unacceptable,” and
Republican Representative  Jeb Hensarling  of Texas expressed
opposition to proposals to raise taxes.  Withhold Judgment  Obama said he wanted to give the commission “space” and
asked critics to withhold their judgment until the report is
final so that the American public can have the “information
about the kinds of choices that are going to be involved.”  He appealed for congressional leaders to match their
campaign rhetoric with actions and join him in making difficult
decisions about taxes and spending.  “I can’t make them alone,” he said. “I am going to need
Congress to work with me.”  Discretionary spending cuts in the plan from co-chairman
 Erskine Bowles , former President  Bill Clinton ’s chief of staff,
and Republican ex-Senator  Alan Simpson , include reducing
congressional and White House budgets by 15 percent, freezing
federal salaries and cutting the federal workforce by 10
percent.  Discretionary reductions of $1.4 trillion would be split
equally between defense and domestic programs.  Bowles and Simpson said in Washington yesterday that their
proposal was intended as a starting point for discussion. The
full commission, which includes members appointed by Republican
and Democratic congressional leaders, is scheduled to deliver
its report at the start of next month.  Deficit Reduction  They said the plan would cut the deficit to 2.2 percent of
gross domestic product by 2015 and reduce debt to 60 percent of
GDP by 2024.  The government posted a $1.294 trillion deficit in the
fiscal year that ended Sept. 30, second only to the $1.415
trillion shortfall in 2009. Obama’s budget office has forecast
the deficit for this fiscal year will hit $1.4 trillion, or 9.2
percent of GDP.  In Seoul, the president suggested that he would ask
Congress for additional spending to help revive the economy and
that his decisions on deficit reduction would also include
calculations about how to promote economic growth.  In his discussions with Congress, with Republicans poised
to control the House of Representatives next year, Obama said
that both sides need to focus on “what steps do we have to take
to make sure that we are growing.”  “I am not going to be favorably disposed towards
recommendations or moves by Congress that don’t take into
account the needs for us to grow long-term,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Seoul at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 Hnichols2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  