-- Obama Opposes Permanent Top Tax Rate Extension, Advisor Says
-- B y   R y a n   J .   D o n m o y e r
-- 2010-11-11T21:42:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/obama-would-back-extending-tax-cut-for-rich-axelrod-tells-huffington-post.html
President  Barack Obama ’s top adviser
said the administration hasn’t given into Republican demands for
a permanent extension of Bush-era tax cuts for high-income
Americans while leaving the door open to a temporary
continuation.  “We believe that it is imperative to extend tax cuts for
the middle class,”  David Axelrod , a senior White House adviser,
said in an e-mailed statement. “We don’t believe that we can
afford to borrow another $700 billion in the next decade” to
keep tax cuts for top earners.  Axelrod sent the statement after the  Huffington Post 
reported this morning that he suggested in an interview the
White House would accept an across-the-board extension of tax
cuts passed in 2001 and 2003 that are set to expire at the end
of the year.  In the Huffington Post interview, Axelrod said that the
president doesn’t want to “trade away security for the middle
class” to continue making the point that the country can’t
afford indefinitely extending tax cuts for the wealthiest
Americans, defined by Obama as individuals making more than
$200,000 and couples earning more than $250,000.  Republicans, who won a majority of House seats in the Nov.
2 elections and narrowed the Democratic margin in the Senate,
are pushing to permanently extend all the current tax rates.  Open to Talks  Obama wants to permanently extend just the tax cuts on
earnings up to $200,000 for individuals or $250,000 for
households. Administration officials, including White House
press secretary  Robert Gibbs , have said previously that Obama is
open to negotiations on a temporary extension of the current top
rates.  Democrats will retain control of both chambers of Congress
until January, and lawmakers will take up the tax issue when
they return next week for a lame-duck session.  A one- or two-year extension of the top income tax rates
and a longer one for middle-income taxpayers would be considered
a victory for the White House, according to a Senate Democratic
aide who spoke on condition of anonymity.  Democrats also want the matter dealt with during the
current legislative session to avoid giving the Republican-
controlled House a chance next year to pass a permanent tax-cut
extension, forcing Senate Democrats to either give in or go on
record opposing a tax cut, the aide said.  Overhaul Incentive  Senate Budget Committee Chairman  Kent Conrad , a North
Dakota Democrat, said in a Bloomberg Television interview today
that lawmakers “should extend them all for a short period of
time” to “give a big incentive to Congress” to work on a
comprehensive overhaul of the tax system.  In the Huffington Post interview, Axelrod said
administration officials are concerned that Congress in the
future will keep passing temporary tax cut extensions year after
year. Still, he said, getting the middle-income tax cuts
extended is a priority.  “We have to deal with the world as we find it,” Axelrod
told the Huffington Post. “The world of what it takes to get
this done.”  Top congressional Republicans seized on the Huffington Post
report as a sign the administration will give in.  “While the president and some of his allies in Congress
have a strange desire to raise taxes on hundreds of thousands of
small businesses across the country, we would welcome the
president’s help to extend all the current tax rates so that no
one sees a tax hike,” Senator  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky, the
chamber’s top Republican, said in a statement.  Boehner’s Position  Michael Steel , a spokesman for Ohio Republican
Representative  John Boehner , who is in line to become House
Speaker in January, also took Axelrod’s published comments as a
sign of acquiescence.  “Republicans made a pledge to America to permanently stop
all of the tax hikes scheduled for January 1st,” Steel said.
“We’re glad to see that the president’s most trusted adviser
now agrees with this course of action.”  Boehner said yesterday that permanently extending the tax
cuts is necessary “to reduce the uncertainty in America”
that’s chilling business investment and hiring.  Obama had previously signaled a willingness to negotiate
with Republicans on the tax cuts after receiving what he termed
a “shellacking” in the mid-term elections. In his weekly
address on Nov. 6 he said, “there’s room for us to compromise
and get it done together.”  White House Meeting  The president invited congressional leaders from both
parties to a White House meeting on Nov. 18 to talk
“substantively” about the legislative agenda.  Unless Congress acts, marginal rates will increase for all
income tax payers. Tax credits benefiting families will be cut
in half. The so-called married penalty that forces some couples
to pay more than if they were single will be reinstated. Rates
will rise on most dividends and capital gains, and a levy on
estates valued over $1 million will be resurrected.  Extending only the current rates for individuals earning
less than $200,000 and couples making under $250,000 would add
more than $3 trillion to the national debt over the next decade.
Sustaining tax cuts for those with higher incomes would add an
additional $700 billion to the debt over the next decade,
Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  has said.  An across-the-board extension of all Bush-era tax policies
would cost the government about $5 trillion in foregone revenue
and interest cost on the debt, the Congressional Research
Service estimated last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ryan J. Donmoyer  in Washington at 
 rdonmoyer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  