-- GM IPO Should Be Delayed to Maximize U.S. Return, Nader Says
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2010-11-11T20:21:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/obama-should-delay-gm-ipo-to-maximize-u-s-taxpayers-return-nader-says.html
President  Barack Obama  should
suspend  General Motors Co .’s initial public offering to ensure
the best return for U.S. taxpayers,  Ralph Nader  and three other
consumer advocates said in a letter.  GM is seeking to raise as much as $10.6 billion in the sale
of shares, according to a Nov. 3 regulatory filing. The IPO,
which may occur as early as Nov. 17, would reduce the Treasury
Department’s investment in the Detroit-based company to 43
percent from 61 percent, according to the filing.  “The government obviously has a serious fiduciary duty to
taxpayers to obtain the best possible return on our investment
in GM,” Nader wrote today in the  letter  to the Obama
administration. The letter was also signed by  Joan Claybrook ,
president emeritus of Public Citizen;  Clarence Ditlow , executive
director of the Center for Auto Safety; and Public Citizen
President  Robert Weissman .  The government may lose $4.9 billion in the share sale,
they said, citing press reports. The Treasury will seek to
recoup taxpayer losses in future offerings at higher prices.  Investor prudence “counsels for maintaining the
government’s current share and delaying a sell off so that the
government can capture likely improved returns in the future,”
they said.  They also pointed to the need to protect jobs and prop up
the U.S. economy by influencing GM investment decisions. They
cited reports that foreign manufacturers and sovereign wealth
funds are considering purchases of GM shares.  The U.S. stake in GM could be used to promote policy
changes to deal with climate change, through backing
dramatically increased investments in electric cars “and other
transformational technologies,” they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Plungis  in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  