-- Obama Backing India Bid for UN Security Council Seat Leaves Logjam Intact
-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 2010-11-11T23:37:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/obama-backing-india-bid-for-un-security-council-seat-leaves-logjam-intact.html
President Barack Obama’s backing of
India for a permanent seat on the  United Nations  Security
Council was a largely symbolic gesture unlikely to break up a
20-year-old logjam over restructuring the panel, diplomats said.  “I don’t think that it is going to create some kind of a
revolution in the discussion,” Russian Ambassador  Vitaly Churkin  said in the midst of a UN General Assembly meeting on
how to increase membership in the world body’s principal policy-
making panel. “The views continue to be the ones expressed all
along and they are very far apart.”  Obama gave his support to India’s bid during a visit to New
Delhi on Nov. 8. The endorsement separated the administration’s
position from that of Obama’s predecessor,  George W. Bush , who
backed only Japan for a new permanent seat and tied expansion of
the council to the UN making other changes sought by the U.S.  “Its symbolic value is significant,”  Vishakha Desai ,
president of the New York-based Asia Society, said of Obama’s
backing. “But it is not like India is going to have smooth
sailing now. There is a certain level of inertia. To make these
reforms work you need stronger leadership, and I am not sure
that in the senior leadership of the UN there is any willingness
to make these reforms work.”  The  Security Council  includes five permanent members with a
veto -- the U.S., the U.K., China, France and Russia -- and 10
nations elected to two-year terms. The makeup largely reflects
the post-World War II world order and hasn’t been changed since
1965, when the number of rotating seats -- which hold no veto
power -- was increased by four.  More Expansion  India, Brazil, Germany and Japan have been pushing for
permanent membership, and African nations have called separately
for two new permanent seats. The U.S. has said it supports a
“modest” increase in the number of permanent members, backing
India and Japan and declining to take a position on Brazil and
Germany.  At issue, as it’s been for the last two decades, are the
total number of seats and the number of permanent seats, their
geographical distribution and use of the veto.  A significant hurdle, Churkin said, is the need for
consensus among the UN’s 192 members. While it would take a two-
thirds vote in the General Assembly to restructure the Security
Council, Churkin said Russia believes that it shouldn’t be done
that way.  In addition, any change would require approval by all of
the council’s permanent members.  Smaller Countries  Li Baodong, China’s ambassador to the UN, declined today to
echo Obama’s endorsement of India, saying only that his
government favors enhancements to the Security Council’s
efficiency and greater representation of “medium and small-
sized” countries in policy making.  China has previously said that it doesn’t back Japan’s bid
for a permanent seat.  “China has always been very cautious to change the current
structure,” said  Tsuneo Nishida , Japan’s ambassador to the UN.
He called Obama’s announcement “good news.”  Still, Nishida said that while the “U.S. is a very
important member, it is one of 192, so that is the reality. The
road toward the end will not be easy.”  Susan Rice , the U.S. ambassador to the UN, told reporters
that change won’t come easily or quickly.  ‘Very Different Views’  “The process here in New York on Security Council reform
has been slow, it is complicated by the fact that there are very
different views among member states, and so I think reality is
that this will continue to be a complex and potentially lengthy
negotiation,” Rice said.  The difficulty in the process was signaled by Pakistan’s
quick and strong objection to the U.S. support for India.
“Pakistan has conveyed its disappointment,” the newspaper Dawn
reported, saying that Foreign Secretary  Salman Bashir  had told
U.S. Ambassador  Cameron Munter  that “the move could have
serious repercussions for the conflict-ridden region and reform
of the world body.”  The next step is circulation of a new draft resolution on
Security Council restructuring by  Zahir Tanin , Afghanistan’s
ambassador to the UN and the leader of the negotiations. Brazil,
Germany, India and Japan have called for a text by the end of
the year, a target Tanin declined to endorse.  “I didn’t expect anything new,” he said after listening
to 30 speeches on the subject in the General Assembly. Tanin
said that drafting a resolution “depends on how the members are
engaged.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Varner  at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  