-- Oil `Hellfighters' Back in Vogue as BP Blowout Stokes Demand
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2010-11-11T09:45:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/oil-hellfighters-back-in-vogue-as-bp-blowout-stokes-demand.html
Demand is surging for workers
trained to fight oil well blowouts to show regulators and
investors emergencies like  BP Plc ’s fatal blast can be
handled before they erupt into billion-dollar disasters.  Well-control instructor Doug Shelley and other
practitioners of a trade depicted in John Wayne’s 1968 film
 “Hellfighters”  say they’re overwhelmed with applications
for their two-and-half-day classes instructing roughnecks,
roustabouts and drilling engineers.  Oil-well firefighters such as DXP Enterprises Inc.,
Superior Energy Services Inc. and RPC Inc. are outperforming
the rest of the petroleum industry in the wake of BP’s
blowout that led to the worst crude spill in U.S. history.
 Halliburton Co . yesterday estimated sales at the Boots &
Coots Inc. well-control business it purchased in September
will triple in three years, and said it’s on the hunt for
more such acquisitions.  “The BP disaster was a real eye-opener for the oil
industry,” said Shelley, who works for closely held Global
Well Control Inc. in Memphis, Texas. “Now the oil companies
are sending everyone through this kind of training, from the
roughnecks all the way up to the drilling superintendents.”  Shares Double  RPC, based in Atlanta, more than doubled since BP’s
April 20 rig explosion in the Gulf of Mexico that killed 11
workers. DXP of Houston jumped 41 percent. New Orleans-based
Superior Energy advanced 23 percent. Superior’s Wild Well
Control subsidiary was one of three U.S. outfits hired in
1991 to extinguish the Kuwaiti oilfield fires set by  Saddam Hussein ’s retreating troops.  During the same period, the NYSE Arca Oil Index, which
includes Exxon Mobil Corp. and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc , two of
the world’s largest oil companies, was unchanged. The
Philadelphia Oil Service Sector Index of drillers, equipment
makers and subsea robot operators, advanced 3.3 percent.  Superior said on Oct. 27 that rising demand for well-
control services contributed to a 14 percent increase in
third-quarter revenue for its subsea and well-enhancement
unit.  BP’s internal investigation concluded that the April 20
blowout of its Macondo well 40 miles (62 kilometers) off the
Louisiana coast could have been prevented if crew members
aboard Transocean Ltd.’s Deepwater Horizon rig had noticed
pressure readings and other data that suggested disaster was
imminent. The signs were obvious 40 minutes before the first
of two explosions rocked the rig,  Mark Bly , chief of safety
for London-based BP, told reporters on Sept. 8 in Washington.  ‘Hellfighters’ Inspiration  The catastrophe sank the $365 million vessel and damaged
the well, which gushed 4.9 million barrels of crude before it
was capped on July 15.  Halliburton, based in Houston, paid $280 million in
September to acquire Boots & Coots, the well-control company
founded in 1978 by Edward “Coots” Matthews and Asger
“Boots” Hansen, protégés of legendary oil-well firefighter
Paul “Red” Adair.  Adair, the inspiration for Wayne’s character in
“Hellfighters,” learned the business from Myron Kinley, who
in 1913 pioneered the use of  dynamite  to extinguish blazing
wells. Adair quelled fires from Algeria to the North Sea to
Kuwait before he died in 2004 at the age of 89.  Sales at Boots & Coots probably will rise to $2.7
billion from $900 million over three years,  Paul Koeller ,
Halliburton’s vice president of consulting and project
management, said yesterday during a presentation to analysts
in Houston.  Foams, Pipes, Valves  Blowout-control techniques have come a long way in the
97 years since Kinley pioneered the use of explosions to
deprive flaming oil wells of oxygen.  High-pressure jets of chemical foam and 90-foot columns
of pipes and valves cooled by millions of gallons of water
are commonly used to extinguish flames and divert raging
streams of flammable hydrocarbons, Scott Dudenhoeffer, a DXP
well-control specialist, said in an interview in Odessa,
Texas.  Still, the enterprising spirit that drove Kinley to
tinker with nitroglycerin is still alive and well in the
industry. Rudimentary materials such as scrap rubber,
shredded ropes and walnut shells may be used as a stopgap
while waiting for sophisticated equipment to arrive, said
Chris Spurgeon, a manager of DXP’s Indian Fire and Safety
unit, who followed his father and grandfather into the well-
control business.  The first time Spurgeon, 35, encountered an out-of-
control well 15 years ago, he cut mud flaps off his truck and
yanked engine belts from drilling gear to clog the hole.  Junk Shot  “We stuffed the hole with whatever we could find,”
Spurgeon recalled during an interview at the Permian Basin
International Oil Show in Odessa.  It took three days of cramming debris into the well to
halt the flow of oil and poisonous gases, he said.  BP used a similar technique, albeit unsuccessfully, in
late May to try to plug the Macondo well about 5,000 feet
beneath the surface of the sea.  The London-based company mixed golf balls and rubber
scraps with drilling fluid to create a so-called junk shot
intended to stop the flow of oil and gas from the 50 million-
barrel reservoir.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 