-- Olympics Bonus for Home Renters May Rise as Hotel Squeeze Looms
-- B y   T i m   B a r w e l l   a n d   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2010-11-11T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/olympic-bonus-for-home-renters-may-increase-as-london-hotel-squeeze-looms.html
Londoners are already seeking
tenants to stay in their homes during the 2012 Olympic Games,
asking as much as 70 percent more than typical apartment rents
to capitalize on an expected shortage of hotel rooms.  About 320,000 foreigners will travel to London in the six
weeks from the start of the Olympics to the end of the
Paralympics, competing for about 120,000 hotel rooms available
by then, the U.K. government’s  VisitBritain  estimates. About 40
percent of the rooms will be set aside for guests of the
organizing committee, said market research company Rubicon.  Websites like  Londonrentmyhouse.com  are featuring hundreds
of houses and apartments near Olympic venues and in towns within
commuting distance of the capital. Hotel prices may more than
double during the event, making it easier for homeowners in good
locations to demand higher rents.  “As the Games get closer, they will be able to name their
price,” Jane Ingram, head of  Savills Plc’s  rentals unit, said
in an interview. “It’s definitely worth visitors thinking about
coming over to sort accommodation out earlier.”  Julia Bailey is seeking to rent out her one-bedroom
apartment in Greenwich, close to the gymnastics arena and about
30 minutes travel from the main Olympic Park in Stratford, east
London. She’s asking for about 400 pounds ($632) a week,
approximately 70 percent more than current long-term leases.  “It’s a fantastic opportunity to use my property for such
an exciting event and also make some money at the same time,”
Bailey, 32, said in an interview.  Big Crowds  The London Olympics will attract more visitors than
previous summer Games held in Europe, according to VisitBritain,
a state-backed organization promoting U.K. tourism. About
250,000 people traveled to the 1992 Games in Barcelona, while
150,000 visited the 2004 Athens Olympics, it said.  “It’s a complete lottery,” Tim Hyatt, head of residential
lettings at Knight Frank LLP, said in an interview. “There is a
general lack of good quality stock. There is every opportunity
it could get a bit silly.”  Hotel rates will rise as demand reaches “unprecedented
highs,” Rubicon said in a report last month.  “Hotel stocks are already under pressure, with the London
organizing committee already having first call on 50,000 rooms
for officials, dignitaries and 22,500 worldwide media expected
to attend,” said Rubicon, which based its forecast on research
conducted in a four-month period around the Vancouver Winter
Games in February. That may drive people to rent out private
homes, Rubicon said.  Building Hotels  InterContinental Hotels Group Plc , owner of the Holiday Inn
brand, plans to finish building 10 more hotels in London in time
for the Olympics, bringing its total in the capital to 11,500
rooms, according to spokesman  Leslie McGibbon . The company
hasn’t decided what it will charge during the Games.  “It’s a complex process deciding what to charge and there
will be a lot of different rates and packages,” he said.
Intercontinental Hotels is a sponsor of the event.  Nearly 100 properties are available to rent for the
Olympics on LondonRentMyHouse.com. People pay a one-time fee of
20 pounds to place an advertisement until the end of 2012.  “As well as those advertising, I’ve had some very
interesting contacts from France and America looking for
accommodation,” said Matthew Parker, the founder of the
LondonRentMyHouse, where Bailey listed her property. “They will
pay well.”  Hyatt said Knight Frank is receiving five to 10 enquiries
from people looking to rent out their properties each week. He
said professional landlords are unlikely to change contracts so
their tenants can sublet for the Olympics. That leaves owner-
occupiers to fill the gap.  ‘Last Minute’  Rates of 40 percent to 100 percent above long-term levels
are typical for private homes, said Sarah Tonkinson, director of
short-term rentals at property broker Foxtons Ltd. said in an
interview. People should price their properties in that range to
avoid a repeat of the 2008 Beijing Summer Games, where apartment
premiums of up to 200 percent may have contributed to empty
seats at some events, she said.  “There will definitely be a last-minute rush,” Tonkinson
said. “We’ll know a lot more next year, when the Games are
closer.”  During the 2000 Games in Sydney, a late scramble for
accommodation drove up rents, especially near the Olympic
village, to as much as 10 times normal rates, according to
Charles Tarbey, chairman of  Century21 Australia .  “Lots of homes were still available,” he said. “People
weren’t willing to pay that much or they clubbed up in places.”  Eight Million Tickets  The Olympics run from July 27 to Aug. 12, 2012, with the
Paralympics lasting 12 days from Aug. 29. More than 8 million
tickets to events will be sold from April 2011.  The  London Organizing Committee  wouldn’t comment on
accommodation and referred questions to VisitBritain.  “We expect to have plenty of room for everyone who wants
to visit London and stay in the city,” Rebecca Smith, a
spokeswoman for VisitBritain, said by e-mail. “Visitor figures
provided are based on an estimated overall visitor number over
the course of the entire Games period, and not all visitors will
have a single room.”  Towns with an easy commute to central London may be the
“unwitting winners” of the expected price surge, Rubicon said
in its  report . “Business travelers and tourists may be forced
to head further afield to find a reasonably priced hotel room.”  Wimbledon Bonus  In Wimbledon, the London district that hosts the annual
Grand Slam tennis  tournament , a 5-bedroom property close to the
All England Club venue can fetch as much as 7,000 pounds per
week during the event, according to Clive Moon, head of Savills
Wimbledon. In 2012, residents there will get two opportunities
to cash in on rentals, he said.  The U.K’s longest recession on record may make people more
willing than usual to rent out all or part of their home, Andrew
Buonocore, owner of the olympicletting.com Website, said in an
interview.  “Some people actually have a bit more experience of that
because of the downturn,” said Buonocore, whose website last
month was signing up as many as three people a day wanting to
advertise their property. “It’s money that you’ve not
anticipated, so it’s a nice little bonus.”  Musician and filmmaker Darren Michael is advertising his
Edwardian two-bedroom apartment in Enfield, north London, for a
period of eight weeks at around 375 pounds a week on
olympicletting.com. That’s about 48 percent higher than the
current rate.  Once in a Lifetime  “It’s a once in a lifetime thing,” Michael, 36, said in
an interview. “It’s a short-time inconvenience. I just see it
as an opportunity to make some money.”  Opportunistic Londoners must be careful not to violate
Olympic branding rules if they don’t want to face sanctions from
the Organizing committee.  Bruce Abbott, a search-engine optimizer, had to remove his
website Hotelslondonolympicgames.co.uk after discussions with
the committee. Abbott said he was getting about 4,000 hits a
month when he shut it down in October. He set the site up 10
days after London won the Games in 2005.  “They’re spoiling an opportunity for entrepreneurs,” he
said. “They want the London public to get into the spirit of
the Games, and that could occur by reducing the backlog of
visitors without beds,” Abbott said in an interview. Parker
said he was allowed to keep his LondonRentMyHouse site after
agreeing to drop “2012” from the name.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tim Barwell  in London at 
 tbarwell@bloomberg.net ;
 Danielle Rossingh  in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 