-- Home Seizures in U.S. Decline 9% as States Probe Foreclosures
-- B y   D a n   L e v y
-- 2010-11-11T18:47:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/home-seizures-in-u-s-decline-9-as-states-probe-foreclosures.html
Home seizures in the U.S. fell 9
percent in October from the previous month, the biggest decline
in a year, as attorneys general began a nationwide probe into
lender foreclosure practices, according to  RealtyTrac Inc .  The number of properties taken back by banks fell to 93,236
last month from a record 102,134 in September, the Irvine,
California-based data seller said today in a report.  Foreclosure
filings , which also include default and auction notices, fell 4
percent from the previous month to 332,172 and were little
changed from a year earlier. One in 389 households got a filing.  Top legal officers in all 50 states began a coordinated
inquiry on Oct. 13 into whether banks and loan servicers used
false documents and signatures on hundreds of thousands of
foreclosures in a process known as “robo-signing.” The probe
is on a “fast track” and may lead to multiple settlements,
Iowa Attorney General  Tom Miller , the leader of the
investigation, said in an interview this week.  Foreclosures last month “probably would have been higher
except for the fallout from the recent ‘robo-signing’
controversy,” RealtyTrac Chief Executive Officer  James J. Saccacio  said in a statement. The probes are likely to result in
further declines in home seizures in November, he said.  Bank of America Corp. , the largest U.S. lender, temporarily
halted repossessions nationwide as it reviewed processes, while
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Ally Financial Inc.’s GMAC unit froze
home seizures in states where courts oversee foreclosures.  Home Sales  A prolonged decline in repossessions threatens to hurt U.S.
 home sales . Almost a third of all transactions in September
involved distressed properties, according to RealtyTrac.  House sales fell 21 percent in the third quarter from a
year earlier and 25 percent from the previous three months, the
National Association of Realtors said today in a report. Half of
U.S. metropolitan areas had price declines, with the national
median declining 0.2 percent from a year earlier to $177,900.  In Florida, the state with the second-highest rate of
filings, completed foreclosure cases in the 17th Judicial
Circuit fell to 310 in the week of Oct. 4 from 955 the prior
week because of the moratoriums, Chief Judge  Victor Tobin  said
in a telephone interview. The pace may return to pre-review
levels after lenders improve procedures, he said.  “I anticipate within three to four weeks it will pick back
up,” said Tobin, whose circuit includes Broward County, home of
Fort Lauderdale.  ‘Enhanced Procedures’  PNC Financial Services Group Inc.  now has “enhanced
procedures” to process home seizures, the Pittsburgh-based
lender said Nov. 9. PNC, the sixth-largest U.S. bank by
deposits, stopped sales of foreclosed homes last month as
investors showed concern about buying mortgage assets, Chief
Financial Officer  Richard J. Johnson  said last week.  Home repossessions reached records in four of the last
seven months as banks accelerated actions against delinquent
homeowners, according to RealtyTrac. The October seizures were
up 21 percent from a year earlier.  The month-over-month decline was the largest since October
2009, RealtyTrac said. Repossessions fell on a monthly basis in
33 states, while 14 states showed year-over-year declines.  Default notices , the first stage of foreclosure, were sent
to 100,575 properties last month, down 2 percent from September
and 19 percent from a year earlier, RealtyTrac said. They fell
in California, Nevada and Michigan on a monthly basis while
rising in Florida, Ohio and Illinois.  Foreclosure Auctions  Foreclosure auctions, the second stage in the process, were
scheduled on 138,361 properties in October, down 3 percent from
September and up 6 percent from a year earlier. Auctions
decreased from the previous month in 26 states and the District
of Columbia.  Nevada  had the highest foreclosure filing rate at one in
every 79 households, almost five times the national average. A
total of 14,205 homes in the state received filings, down 13
percent from September and up 3 percent from a year earlier.  One in 155 Florida households received a filing.  Arizona 
ranked third at one in 165. Other states with the 10 highest
rates were California, Michigan, Utah, Georgia, Idaho, Illinois
and Colorado.  The Las Vegas-Paradise, Nevada, area had the highest
foreclosure rate among major metropolitan regions, with one in
70 households receiving a filing in October. It was followed by
Cape Coral-Fort Myers, Florida, at one in 96.  California Leads  Five states accounted for more than half of all U.S.
filings, led by  California ’s 66,475, a fifth of the national
total. Filings in the most populous state were down 12 percent
from September and 22 percent from a year earlier.  Florida ranked second with 56,858 filings, down 4.5 percent
from September and up 9.5 percent from October 2009, RealtyTrac
said. Michigan was third at 19,288, down 12 percent from
September and up 17 percent from a year earlier.  Illinois had 16,969 filings and Arizona had 16,538.
Georgia, Nevada, Ohio, Texas and Washington rounded out the top
10, according to RealtyTrac, which sells default data from
counties representing 90 percent of the U.S. population.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Levy  in San Francisco at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  