-- One-Third of China's Aluminum Output `Affected' by Curbs, Sanmenxia Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-11T08:19:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/one-third-of-china-s-aluminum-output-affected-by-curbs-sanmenxia-says.html
One-third of China’s  aluminum
production  capacity has been “affected” by energy-saving power
curbs and output this year may fall short of forecasts, said an
industry executive today.  Chinese aluminum output may be less than a forecast 17
million metric tons as smelters either temporarily reduce
production or shut facilities, Xiao Chongxin, executive general
manager of  Sanmenxia Tianyuan Aluminum Co.  in Henan province.
Production last year was 13 million tons, government data shows.
Aluminum is used in cars, cans and airplanes.  Aluminum prices in China, the world’s largest producer and
consumer, have gained 17 percent in the second half as smelters
in Henan, Guizhou, Qinghai provinces and Guangxi region have
suspended capacity as local governments try to meet Beijing’s
energy-conservation goals set for 2010.  “It’s likely that the country’s total production may fall
month on month in the fourth quarter,” Xiao said in an
interview at a conference in Shanghai.  Henan province, the largest aluminum-producing region, may
suspend about 1 million tons of capacity in the fourth quarter
in an effort to meet Beijing’s energy-saving targets, Zhang 
Fengkui, head of the nonferrous metals office at the Ministry
of Industry and Information Technology, said Oct. 26.  Aluminum output in January to October gained 28 percent to
13.2 million tons, the statistics bureau said today.  Output Target  China aims to restrict alumina output capacity to within 41
million tons by the end of 2015, and aluminum production to 22
million tons, Xiao said, citing the government’s 12th “five-
year plan.” Alumina, a white powder refined from bauxite, is
smelted to produce aluminum.  The country also aims to double the output of recycled
aluminum out of environmental concerns to 5.8 million tons to 6
million tons from around 3.1 million tons this year, said Xiao.  “The growth rate of recycled aluminum will accelerate, but
that of primary aluminum will slow down a bit,” he said.  Aluminum output may gain 28 percent to 17.5 million tons
this year, according to Beijing Antaike Information Development
Co. Consumption is likely to total 16.8 million tons this year,
up 22 percent from 2009, according to Beijing Antaike.  -- Helen Sun . Editors: Richard Dobson, Jake Lloyd-Smith.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Helen Sun  in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  