-- Hong Kong May Post 6.1% Expansion Amid Property `Bubble' Risk
-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 2010-11-11T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/hong-kong-may-post-6-1-growth-amid-bubble-risk-from-property-price-gain.html
Hong Kong’s economy may have
expanded at a 6.1 percent annual pace in the third quarter,
extending a recovery under threat from asset bubbles.  The median  forecast  of 16 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey compares with a 6.5 percent  expansion  in the second
quarter from a year earlier. The number is scheduled for   
release at 4:30 p.m. local time today.  The U.S. Federal Reserve’s expansion of stimulus through
bond purchases may fuel inflows of cash to Hong Kong, where a
currency pegged to the dollar robs officials of an independent
interest-rate policy. The city faces a heightened risk of an
“asset bubble” in real estate,  Norman Chan , the head of the
Hong Kong Monetary Authority, said last week.  U.S. policies and low rates are fueling “overheating local
asset markets,” said  Irina Fan , an economist at Hang Seng Bank
Ltd. in Hong Kong. At the same time, “wealth effects from
soaring property prices” may aid consumer demand, she said.  The  Hang Seng Index  of stocks jumped 30 percent from a May
low to yesterday’s close of 24,700.30.  Gross domestic product has expanded for three quarters on a
year-on-year basis after a contraction that started in the final
three months of 2008. In the first three months of this year,
gross domestic product surged 8 percent.  Moody’s Upgrade  Growth is “stabilizing,” according to  Frances Cheung , a
Hong Kong-based senior strategist at Credit Agricole CIB.  Moody’s Investors Service raised yesterday Hong Kong’s debt
rating to Aa1, the second-highest ranking, citing the
government’s financial strength and “lessening vulnerability to
external shocks.” Neighboring China’s growth will also aid the
city, Moody’s said.  Retail sales grew 17.8 percent in the third quarter,
according to Hang Seng Bank, as unemployment dropped to a 20-
month low of 4.2 percent.  Exports  climbed 27.8 percent, the
lender said.  “Going forward, the growth momentum for the externally
oriented Hong Kong economy looks set to cool off, as the global
economy is showing clear signs of moderating,” Fan said.  Home prices  surged about 51 percent from the start of 2009,
according to an index compiled by Centaline Property Agency Ltd,
and new home sales volume more than doubled in October from
September.  Cooling Measures  Since August, the government has raised down-payment
ratios, stopped offering residency to foreigners who buy
property in the city, and increased land auctions to boost
supply. While Chan said that the government could take extra
steps to cool the market, he wasn’t more specific.  Residential property prices will likely post a further 30
percent gain by the end of 2011, Credit Suisse Group AG said in
a report this month. Developers from  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. 
to Henderson Land Development Co. Ltd. may benefit.  Full-year economic growth may exceed the government’s
August estimate of as much as 6 percent and inflationary
pressure is increasing, Financial Secretary  John Tsang  told
lawmakers on  Oct. 28 .  Consumer prices  rose 2.6 percent in
September from a year earlier.  Gross domestic product  grew 0.6 percent in the third
quarter from the previous three months, seasonally adjusted,
according to the median estimate in a  survey  of 10 economists.  Hong Kong is likely to “sustain healthy growth into next
year in its role as a service center for the Chinese economy,
which enjoys ongoing momentum,” said  David Cohen , a Singapore-
based economist at Action Economics.  -- With assistance from  Michael Munoz . Editors:  Paul Panckhurst ,
 Cherian Thomas .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sophie Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  