-- OPEC Raises 2011 Demand Forecast on Signs of Strong U.S., German Growth
-- B y   R a c h e l   G r a h a m
-- 2010-11-11T14:03:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/opec-raises-2011-demand-forecast-on-signs-of-strong-u-s-german-growth.html
The Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries raised its 2011 forecast for global oil
demand as industrial consumption recovers in developed countries
including the U.S. and Germany.  OPEC expects oil demand to grow by 1.2 million barrels a
day to 86.95 million barrels next year, according to the
producer’s monthly report today. That’s 120,000 barrels a day
more than last month’s forecast.  “Petrochemical and transport sectors are dominant in world
oil demand growth in 2011,” OPEC said in the report. “North
America, Europe and the Pacific region have shown strength in
oil consumption.”  Oil in New York rose to the highest level in two years
today after  crude inventories  declined in the U.S., the world’s
biggest oil user, according to a government report yesterday.
Recent strength in U.S. automobile and truck sales will bolster
 gasoline  consumption in the fourth quarter, OPEC said.  Global oil demand has been rising since the third quarter
of 2009 led by developing economies outside the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development including Brazil and China,
according to the Paris-based International Energy Agency.  Growth in oil demand next year is still strongest in China,
Latin America and the Middle East, according to today’s report.
China accounts for over a third of next year’s growth in demand
in volume terms, OPEC said.  Chinese  oil-processing  rates rose to a record last month,
according to government data released today.  Rising OECD Demand  The 12-member producer group also raised its forecast for
global oil demand this year, highlighting increased usage in
South Korea and Germany. Consumption will be 85.78 million
barrels a day, up 190,000 barrels on last month’s estimate.  “Consumption in the OECD has outpaced expectations as a
result of the stronger-than-expected economic activities,
supported by various stimulus plans,” the report said.  OPEC currently accounts for about 40 percent of the world’s
oil supply. That proportion is expected to rise to 50 percent by
2035, the IEA said this week. The group will need to pump more
crude to meet next year’s increase in demand, OPEC said.  Demand for the producer group’s crude is estimated at 29.2
million barrels a day in 2011, according to the report. That’s
up 400,000 barrels a day on the group’s previous estimate.  Non-OPEC supply will increase by 360,000 barrels a day to
52.52 million barrels in 2011, with Canada, India and Oman
driving growth, OPEC said. That forecast is down by 70,000
barrels from the previous report.  OPEC Quota  Ministers representing OPEC members including Saudi Arabia
and Iran met last month in Vienna, agreeing to leave current
production quotas unchanged and calling for improved compliance
with the output limits.  The group effectively reversed the supply cuts announced in
2008 as rising prices encouraged members to flout their output
limits. Compliance with production quotas agreed to in 2008 was
51 percent last month compared with a revised 55 percent for
September.  OPEC’s other members are Algeria, Angola, Ecuador, Iraq,
Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, the United Arab Emirates and
Venezuela. Iraq is not bound by production quotas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rachel Graham  in London 
 rgraham13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  