-- OpenTable's Surge Lures Shorts After Best U.S. IPO
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2010-11-11T21:13:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/opentable-s-230-surge-lures-short-sales-after-best-u-s-ipo.html
OpenTable Inc.  short sellers are
placing record wagers against the online restaurant-reservation
company, betting it will slump after posting bigger gains than
every other U.S. initial public offering in the past two years.  The San Francisco-based company’s shares jumped 230 percent
through yesterday since the IPO almost 18 months ago. The rally
convinced investors to sell short 15 percent of its shares
outstanding, the most since OpenTable began trading in May 2009
and more than twice its average level, according to data
compiled by Data Explorers, a New York-based research firm.  Rady Asset Management LLC and T2 Partners LLC are betting
OpenTable’s prospects don’t justify a price-earnings ratio of
122, or  eight times  higher than the valuation for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index. While analysts estimate the company will post
51 percent growth in per-share profit in 2011, OpenTable may run
out of room to expand its business, said T2’s  Whitney Tilson ,
who lost money when the shares jumped 11 percent on Nov. 3
following the company’s quarterly earnings report.  “It’s one of the most overvalued stocks we’ve ever seen,”
said  Whitney Tilson , who oversees $214 million with  Glenn Tongue 
at T2 in New York. “It’s a well-run company, but it’s
stretching for growth and the earnings report was misinterpreted
as a spectacular report, when it was only OK.”  Tiffany Fox, a spokeswoman for OpenTable, declined to
comment.  Fourfold Profit Gain  OpenTable, which posted a fourfold increase in third-
quarter income last week, makes money from restaurants that
install its system and collects monthly subscriptions and a fee
for each guest seated through online bookings. Diners schedule
reservations for free through OpenTable’s website or
applications on devices such as Apple Inc.’s iPhone.  The stock, which has at least five analyst “buy”  ratings 
and seven “holds,” peaked at $69.61 on Nov. 4 after the  third-
quarter  earnings announcement. It fell 0.4 percent to $65.71 at
4 p.m. in New York.  OpenTable has one of the best management teams among small
Internet companies with strong growth opportunities, according
to Citigroup Inc. analyst  Mark Mahaney , who increased his share-
price estimate to $80 this month. The stock has risen 16 percent
since he boosted his rating to “buy” from “hold” on Sept.
13.  “What OpenTable has proven is that it has created a
dominant transactions platform on which it can layer in new,
high-margin revenue streams,” the San Francisco-based analyst
wrote in a note to investors last week. “Impressive.”  Adding to Bet  Tilson said his firm started betting against  OpenTable 
several weeks ago and added to the wager after the quarterly
report drove the shares higher. Short selling is the sale of
borrowed stock in the hope of profiting by buying the securities
later at a lower price and returning them to the shareholder.  OpenTable reported third-quarter earnings excluding some
items of 23 cents a share,  beating  the average analyst estimate
by 54 percent, Bloomberg data show. The number of restaurants
using its software rose to 15,246 as of Sept. 30, up 31 percent
from a year earlier. The company is expanding its web-based
Connect service, a lower-cost alternative for restaurants that
take fewer reservations.  “They are cutting their prices to customers in order to
maintain the growth in restaurants that investors want to see,”
said Tilson, whose  Tilson Focus Fund  has outperformed 93 percent
of peers in the past five years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. “You can cut prices to help growth, but that will
eventually hurt your profit.”  Short Interest  The proportion of OpenTable shares that were sold short
climbed to 15 percent on Nov. 3, according to Data Explorers.
That compares with a low of 1.5 percent in December.  Short selling in OpenTable is increasing as shares of S&P
500 companies borrowed and sold short fell 2.1 percent to 7.76
billion between Oct. 15 and Oct. 29, the lowest level since June
30, according to exchange data compiled by Bloomberg. Short
interest for the benchmark gauge for U.S. equities slumped to
4.4 percent of shares available for trading, also known as
“float.” It’s down from 4.6 percent in September.  OpenTable’s 230 percent rally since it sold shares in May
2009 is the most among companies that conducted initial public
offerings since Jan. 1, 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  50% Lower  “We would argue that the stock price could be 50 percent
lower,” said  Harry Rady , chief executive officer of Rady Asset
Management in La Jolla, California, which runs a long-short fund
that is betting against OpenTable. “The stock is ahead of
itself and is priced for perfection.”  OpenTable has created a service called Spotlight that
offers coupons to restaurants. It competes with Groupon Inc.,
the owner of a coupon website with 20 million subscribers that’s
seeking venture funding in a deal that may value the company at
about $3 billion, according to people familiar with the matter.
OpenTable has a stock-market value of $1.52 billion.  “OpenTable is a pure valuation trade for us,” said Rady,
who manages $270 million. “The stock is too expensive, even
using the most optimistic assumptions, which therefore makes it
vulnerable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  