-- U.K. Mortgage Repossessions Fall by 27% as Low Rates Help Mortgage Holders
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2010-11-11T10:12:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/mortgage-repossessions-fall-by-27-in-third-quarter-on-low-interest-rates.html
U.K. banks repossessed 27 percent
fewer homes in the third quarter than a year earlier as low
 interest rates  helped people keep up with mortgage payments, the
Council for Mortgage Lenders said.  The number of properties taken into possession fell to
8,900 from 12,200 recorded in the same period in 2009, the
London-based group said in an e-mailed statement today. That’s 5
percent less than in the three months through June and the
fourth consecutive quarterly decline.  “Despite the severity of the economic slowdown, and the
likelihood of only a slow and protracted recovery, a combination
of low interest rates and the commitment of borrowers, lenders,
the government and debt advisers has helped to keep mortgage
payments problems in check so far,” CML Director General
 Michael Coogan  said in the statement. “But we cannot take
falling arrears and possessions for granted, and the recent
welcome trend may reverse.”  The Bank of England last week kept its emergency bond
purchase  program  unchanged at 200 billion pounds ($322 billion)
and its benchmark interest rate at a record low of 0.5 percent.
Governor  Mervyn King  said yesterday Britain’s recovery will
persist, though risks to economic growth are “skewed to the
downside.”  The total of 28,400 repossessions in the first nine months
of the year is “trending below” the CML’s forecast of 39,000
for 2010, the report showed.  The U.K. Ministry of Justice said in a separate report today
that the number of repossession applications made to courts in
England and Wales rose 4 percent in the third quarter from the
previous three months to 18,931. From a year earlier, they
dropped 19 percent.  The number of claims that led to a possession order being
made climbed 5 percent on the quarter and fell 28 percent on the
year, the Ministry of Justice said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 hamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  