-- Mortgage Rate for 30-Year U.S. Loans Falls to Record
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a   a n d   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2010-11-11T16:39:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/mortgage-rate-for-30-year-u-s-loans-falls-to-record-update1-.html
U.S. mortgage rates dropped to a
record low, the first decline in a month, as the Federal Reserve
began a program to buy Treasury bonds to support the economy.  The rate for a 30-year  fixed loan  fell to 4.17 percent in
the week ended today from 4.24 percent, Freddie Mac said in a
statement. That was the lowest level in the McLean, Virginia-
based mortgage-finance company’s records dating to 1971. The
average 15-year  rate  declined to 3.57 percent from 3.63 percent.  The Fed announced last week that it would buy $600 billion
of Treasuries to keep interest rates low and boost economic
growth, a method known as quantitative easing. Yields on
government bonds serve as a benchmark for other debt, signaling
home loan rates may fall further after seven months of declines.  “The quantitative easing is helping to lower interest
rates overall, and as a result, the longer-term mortgage
interest rates are also falling,”  Celia Chen , a housing
economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in West Chester,
Pennsylvania, said in a telephone interview.  The previous record low for the 30-year rate was 4.19
percent, reached in the week ended Oct. 14. The rate tumbled
from a high of 5.21 percent in April as concern that an economic
recovery may falter increased demand for the safety of
Treasuries and government-supported bonds tied to home loans.  Refinancings Jump  The falling mortgage rates have boosted homeowner
refinancings. The number of mortgage applications in the U.S.
increased 5.8 percent in the week ended Nov. 5, the Mortgage
Bankers Association’s  index  showed yesterday.  Refinancing climbed 6 percent and purchase applications
rose 5.5 percent, the most since Oct. 1, the Washington-based
group said. The refinancing gauge has more than doubled since
January.  Sales of U.S. existing homes rose in September by the most
on record, a sign low rates are helping stabilize an industry
that’s battling record foreclosures and unemployment near a 26-
year high.  Purchases increased 10 percent to a 4.53 million annual
 rate  from 4.12 million in August, the National Association of
Realtors said Oct. 25. That beat the 4.3 million pace forecast
by economists, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey.  Slow job creation and homebuyer difficulties in getting
credit may limit the effects of lower rates on the housing
market, Chen said. About 14.2 million U.S. homeowners owe more
than their houses are worth, she said.  The median U.S. home price fell 0.2 percent in the third
quarter from a year earlier to $177,900, the National
Association of Realtors said in a report today. Falling values
make it hard for homeowners to trade up, Chen said.  “Even though interest rates are very low and affordability
is great, I think the demand for homes and home sales will still
be pretty soft this year,” she said.  ----With assistance by  Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington.
Editors:  Kara Wetzel ,  Andrew Blackman   To contact the reporters on this story:
 Danielle Kucera  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net ;
 Prashant Gopal  in New York at 
 Pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
at  kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 