-- Hot-Money Curbs to Damp Asia's Best-Performing Bonds, Morgan Stanley Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L u i
-- 2010-11-11T02:47:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/hot-money-curbs-to-damp-asia-s-best-performing-bonds-morgan-stanley-says.html
Curbs on capital flows into Asia are
damping the appeal of the region’s top-performing bond markets,
according to Morgan Stanley, the sixth-largest U.S. bank.  Indonesian bonds are less attractive than Indian debt as
the rupiah is “fully valued” and the securities have rallied
considerably since early last year,  Pieter Van Der Schaft , head
of Asian rates research at Morgan Stanley said in an interview
in Singapore on Nov. 9. Thai debt is unattractive for similar
reasons, he added.  The Indonesian and Thai central banks have imposed measures 
to curb hot-money inflows as their currencies led gains in
the region. The Federal Reserve may exit its easy monetary
stance next year, cooling the flow of funds into Asia’s debt
markets, the Hong Kong-based Van Der Schaft said.  “In countries where foreign-exchange gains are limited and
inflation is rising, that’s where we become cautious,” he said.
“Bond investors may be less sensitive to capital curbs as long
as there is currency appreciation.”  Indonesia local-currency bonds have gained 24 percent this
year, the best performance in Asia excluding Japan, according to
HSBC Holdings Plc indexes. Thai bonds have gained 7.1 percent,
the fourth-best performance after the Philippines and South
Korea. The rupiah and the baht are Asia’s fastest-rising
currencies since the end of 2008, rallying by 23 percent and 17
percent respectively.  More Controls  Bank Indonesia is studying options such as extending the
minimum one-month holding period it imposed in June for foreign
investment in central bank bills. Thailand last month removed a
tax exemption for foreigners on income from domestic bonds and
Governor  Prasarn Trairatvorakul  said he’s not ruling out more
controls if the baht’s appreciation accelerates.  “We can easily see further measures in the region to curb
inflows,” Van Der Schaft said. Taiwan and China announced
measures to slow inflows this week and the World Bank said Asia
may need capital controls to curb asset bubbles.  South Korean bonds remain attractive even as regulators
consider capital controls as the won is “relatively
undervalued,” Van der Schaft said. The won is the third-worst
performing major Asian currency this year.  Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas President Richard Fisher
said this week that policy makers don’t want inflation as they
pump money into the economy. The Fed this month announced plans
to buy $600 billion of Treasuries through June, a process known
as quantitative easing.  “The question now if is the Fed will continue easing after
June,” Van Der Schaft said. “We think not and the anticipation
of an exit from the quantitative easing could lift U.S. yields
as early as the first quarter. Asian yields will rise as well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Lui  in Singapore at 
 plui4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  