-- Motorola Sues Microsoft Alleging Patent Infringement
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2010-11-11T03:04:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/motorola-sues-microsoft-alleging-patent-infringement-update1-.html
Motorola Inc. , the second-largest
U.S. mobile-phone maker, filed complaints against  Microsoft
Corp.  alleging it infringed technology patents, countering an
earlier suit by the software maker.  Microsoft’s personal-computer, server, mobile and Xbox
products infringe 16 patents, Schaumburg, Illinois-based
Motorola said today in complaints filed in federal courts in
Florida and Wisconsin.  Microsoft filed its patent-infringement claims last month
targeting Motorola phones that use the Android operating system.
The lawsuits reflect a broader fight for a share of the
burgeoning smartphone market. Apple Inc., the largest U.S. phone
maker, filed an U.S. International Trade Commission complaint
against Motorola on Oct. 29. Like Microsoft, it’s seeking to
block imports of phones made by Motorola. Apple also has sued
HTC Corp. and Nokia Oyj.  Microsoft’s complaints are being investigated by the ITC,
which has the power to block imports of products. In today’s
suit,  Motorola ’s Mobility unit requested that Microsoft cease
using its technology and pay compensation for past
infringements.  “It is unfortunate that Microsoft has chosen the
litigation path rather than entering into comprehensive
licensing negotiations,”  Kirk Dailey , a vice president of
Motorola Mobility, said in a statement. “Motorola has mutually
beneficial licensing relationships with the great majority of
technology companies industrywide.”  Jennifer Erickson , a Motorola spokeswoman, said the company
isn’t commenting beyond the statement. Messages seeking comment
from Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft weren’t immediately
returned.  Google Inc. developed the Android operating system and
offers it for free to makers of mobile devices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian King  in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  