-- Tottenham Has Full-Year Loss After Adding Players to Make Champions League
-- B y   T i m   F a r r a n d
-- 2010-11-11T10:15:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/tottenham-has-full-year-loss-after-adding-players-to-make-champions-league.html
Tottenham Hotspur Plc  posted a full-
year loss after spending on a squad that finished fourth place
in English soccer’s Premier League last season to qualify for
the Champions League for a first time.  Tottenham had a net loss of 6.65 million pounds ($10.7
million) in the year ended June 30, compared with a profit of
23.2 million pounds a year earlier, the north London club said
in a statement on the Regulatory News Service today.  Tottenham generated record annual revenue of 119.8 million
pounds as improved on-field performance boosted ticket and
merchandising sales and kept its White Hart Lane stadium at full
capacity for every league match. The club, which had a 22.7
million-pound profit excluding player trading, added defenders
Sebastien Bassong and Younes Kaboul and striker Peter Crouch
during the period.  “We are benefiting now from our investment in the first
team squad,” Chairman  Daniel Levy  said in the statement.  Tottenham has brought in more players since the end of the
period as it competes in the Champions League, European soccer’s
elite club competition, for a first time. The 32 teams from last
year’s group stage received a minimum of 7.1 million euros ($9.8
million) for participating in their six pool games.  Spurs received local planning approval for a new stadium in
September which is awaiting full consent from government. The
club has also registered an interest in the 2012 London Olympic
stadium site.  Shares in Tottenham were unchanged at 69.5 pence at 9:30
a.m. in London, giving the club a market value of 86 million
pounds.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Tim Farrand at 
 tfarrand@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  