-- Thousands of G-20 Protesters Brave Thunder Claps in Peaceful Seoul Rally
-- B y   B o m i   L i m
-- 2010-11-11T10:59:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/thousands-of-g-20-protesters-brave-thunder-claps-in-peaceful-seoul-rally.html
Thousands of South Koreans braved
thunder and rain to hold a peaceful rally condemning the summit
held by leaders of Group of 20 nations in Seoul. Police arrested
one woman earlier today who tried to set fire to herself outside
the summit venue.  Almost 10,000 workers, activists and students made a four-
kilometer march from Seoul Station to the National Museum of
Korea, said Lee Chang Geun, one of the rally’s organizers. They
dispersed outside the museum, where G-20 leaders including U.S.
President  Barack Obama  and China’s  Hu Jintao  met for dinner,
about 6 p.m. local time.  The woman arrested by police poured a chemical thinner on
herself before being stopped by guards, said a security official
at the Coex convention center who declined to be identified,
citing policy at the facility.  South Korea is deploying as many as 60,000 police and
troops to avoid the burning cars, smashed windows and 900
arrests that marked the last G-20 meeting in Toronto in June.
The government has banned protests in the vicinity of Coex until
after the summit ends tomorrow.  “Violence is triggered only when the freedom of expression
is disrupted,” Kim Young Hoon, head of the Korean Confederation
of Trade Unions, told reporters on Nov. 5. “The only way for
the government to ensure our peaceful cry doesn’t become violent
is to grant our right to free speech.”  Human Rights  Kim’s group is among more than 80 labor and civic groups
that took part in today’s rally. About 200 activists from
overseas have also come to Seoul to join the demonstration,
according to Lee.  Disruptive demonstrations, often focused on poverty, the
environment or human rights, have been a feature of world
summits since riots broke out in Seattle at  World Trade
Organization  talks in 1999. Demonstrators in Europe and North
America clashed with police at previous G-20 meetings in
Pittsburgh and London.  South Korea has a history of street protests over labor
issues and demonstrations at gatherings of world leaders in the
region. At an Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit in Busan
in November 2005 attended by then U.S. President  George W. Bush ,
riot police used water cannons and batons to disperse 30,000
protesters, some wielding iron bars.  In Hong Kong less than a month later, at least 1,500 South
Korean farmers rallied outside World Trade Organization talks,
many battling with police in the city’s worst violence in a
decade.  “The G-20 has been all about talk, without producing any
fundamental solution for the economic and social crises,” Chung
Hyun Baek, head of the People’s Solidarity for Participatory
Democracy, said at a briefing on Nov. 5. “They should regulate
the financial institutions that have caused so much pain to so
many people by prompting the economic crisis.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  