-- MLP AG Third-Quarter Profit Increases by 48% on Health Insurance, Recovery
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2010-11-11T10:11:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/mlp-third-quarter-profit-increases-48-on-higher-health-insurance-sales.html
MLP AG , Germany’s third-biggest
financial-services broker, said quarterly  profit  rose 48 percent
as sales of health-insurance products increased.  Net income from continuing operations climbed to 6.8
million euros ($9.4 million) in the third quarter from 4.6
million euros in the year-earlier period, the Wiesloch, Germany-
based company said in an e-mailed  statement  today. MLP
reiterated a target to increase earnings before interest and tax
to 15 percent of sales by the end of 2012.  German financial-services brokers including MLP and rival
 AWD Holding AG , a unit of Zurich-based life insurer  Swiss Life
Holding , are recovering from the economic slump when customers
held back on buying life- and health-insurance policies. MLP
closed its remaining international units in Austria and the
Netherlands last year as it focuses on domestic business.  MLP  shares  slipped 37 cents, or 4.8 percent, to 7.21 euros
as of 10.48 a.m. in Frankfurt trading, the biggest intraday
decline since June. They have fallen 6 percent this year,
valuing the company at about 818 million euros.  “The earnings trend points into the right direction and
make us share management’s optimism about the all-decisive last
quarter of the year,”  Bernd Mueller-Gerberding , a Munich-based
UniCredit SpA analyst who recommends holding the shares, wrote
in a report. “However, the weak trend in the consultant
headcount is a threat to the longer-term earnings trend.”  Number of Consultants  The number of consultants, an indicator for future
earnings, fell to 2,317 from 2,360 a year earlier. Total revenue
at MLP rose 2 percent to 116 million euros, helped by sales of
health-insurance products, which gained 23 percent to 12.8
million euros.  “We achieved our first revenue growth since the outbreak
of the financial and economic crisis,” Chief Executive Officer
 Uwe Schroeder-Wildberg  said. Business in October improved
further, according to the statement.  Hanover, Germany-based AWD yesterday reported earnings
before interest and tax of 8.4 million euros in the third
quarter, following a loss of 9.1 million euros a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Oliver Suess  in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net 
MLP GY <Equity> CN 