-- Palin Loves Alaska, Makes Rove Cold: Margaret Carlson
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2010-11-12T17:23:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/palin-loves-alaska-leaves-karl-rove-cold-margaret-carlson.html
(Corrects column published Nov. 11 to fix reference to
months left in Palin’s unfinished term in 14th paragraph.)  Like many in the  lamestream media ,
I’m transfixed by Sarah Palin. It’s not that she’s so good at
what she’s done; it’s that she’s done it at all.  She missed becoming a heartbeat away from the presidency,
gaining worldwide fame and fortune in its stead. Her record on
influencing the midterm elections is mixed, yet no one other
person had more influence. The Tea Party, initially rudderless,
found its leader.  A Rasmussen Reports telephone survey out three days after
the election  showed  Palin with an 82 percent favorability rating
among likely Republican primary voters, with 50 percent choosing
“very favorable” to describe her.  Mitt Romney  and  Mike Huckabee  also got high marks -- just not as high as Palin.  The GOP establishment, stoic before the midterms, is
frantic now about Palin 2012. The only thing blocking an almost-
official stop-Palin movement,  it seems , is the lack of an
alternative the establishment can rally around.  Still,  Karl Rove , who took Palin on as she was enabling
doomed congressional candidates such as Christine O’Donnell in
Delaware, has more and more company.  The oracle of establishment Republicans, Peggy Noonan,
 called  Palin “ignorant” and “a nincompoop” while relating
that Reagan Republicans “quietly flipped their lids” over
Palin’s suggestion that, as “an actor,” Reagan wasn’t all that
different than she. It was as if Mother Superior was so rattled
by bad behavior she resorted to X-rated language.  ‘Stock Is Falling’  Mark McKinnon, former media adviser to  George W. Bush ,
added in a television interview that Palin’s “stock is
falling” and that while she could win the Republican nomination
for president, “there’s no way that she can win a general
election.”  And Representative Spencer Bachus, an Alabama Republican
who could become the next chairman of the House Financial
Services Committee, blamed Palin’s taste in candidates for
costing the party its chance to win control of the  U.S. Senate .  Palin proved influential in at least six governor’s races
and helped Republicans win Senate races in  Kentucky  ( Rand Paul ),
 New Hampshire  (Kelly Ayotte) and, arguably,  Pennsylvania , where
 Pat Toomey  didn’t trumpet Palin’s endorsement but benefited from
it anyhow. She also held the paint brush that changed the House
from blue to red.  But Palin’s role in Nevada,  Delaware  and Alaska, helping
Tea-Party Republicans pull out huge upsets in the primary, only
to wither under the scrutiny of the general election, may be her
most memorable contribution to Election 2010.  Her Own Backyard  In her own backyard, Alaska, Palin wanted to wallop her old
nemesis, Senator  Lisa Murkowski , with a candidate so bad he had
to concede he lied while working as a local government employee.
When counted, Murkowski’s write-in votes are likely to make her
the victor and to make  Joe Miller , the amazing self-destructing
Republican nominee, the best evidence of Palin’s perilous
political instincts.  Palin has picked herself up before. In February, 71 percent
of Americans found her not qualified to be president -- almost
all Democrats, two-thirds of independents and 52 percent of
Republicans, according to a Washington Post poll.  Since then, coming out from behind Facebook to help Tea
Party candidates has lifted her standing to the point where
she’s a force in the 2012 presidential race. The GOP may have
created a monster by remaining silent until now, letting the Tea
Party become the tail wagging the dog. Palin is to Republicans
what Elvis was to  Las Vegas .  Brand Development  Even milking her 15 minutes hasn’t hurt her. After shocking
the world by quitting as  Alaska  governor in 2009, 17 months
before her term was up, she sucked every bit of benefit out of
her improbable vice presidential run in 2008, publishing a book
and going out on the speaking circuit, rarely forgoing a big
payday even for party events.  Her brand extension now rivals the McDonald’s Corp.’s  move 
into fancy coffee. She’s not just a paid performer on  Fox News 
but, along with her family, plunging into reality television.
Her daughter Bristol is on “Dancing With the Stars,” a single
mother dressing like Madonna, writhing on the floor as she
strips her partner of his shirt, with Mama Grizzly watching.  The rest of the family is in “Sarah Palin’s Alaska,”
debuting Sunday on TLC, a reality show that invites cameras into
her lair -- where, suddenly, she doesn’t mind the little ones
suffering in the public glare. Weighing in again, Rove wondered
how appearing in a reality show “fits in the American calculus
of, ‘That helps me see you in the Oval Office.’”  Gone Fishing  Rove misses the point: The show fits in perfectly with
Palin’s faux-casual approach to 2012 -- she’ll run for president
“if there’s nobody else to do it,” or “if nobody else wanted
to step up.” Now along with those rehearsed lines she’ll have
hours of video of her climbing mountains and kayaking to show
how much happier she is with the salmon in Alaska than with
politicians in  Washington .  As Palin likes to say, “A poor day of fishin’ beats even a
great day of work.”  Until she hangs a “Gone Fishin’” sign on her Facebook
page, Rove and the rest of the Republican establishment
shouldn’t rest easy.  ( Margaret Carlson , author of “Anyone Can Grow Up: How
 George Bush  and I Made It to the White House” and former White
House correspondent for Time magazine, is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Margaret Carlson in Washington at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  