-- Panamericano Probe Threatens to Derail Bank Bond Sale Boom: Brazil Credit
-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2010-11-11T22:26:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/panamericano-probe-threatens-to-derail-bank-bond-sale-boom-brazil-credit.html
The best year for Brazilian bank
bond sales may be over as a probe into accounting irregularities
at Banco Panamericano SA increases investor scrutiny and drives
up borrowing costs for lenders.  Yields on dollar debt from Banco Cruzeiro SA, Banco
Industrial e Comercial SA and Banco Bonsucesso SA jumped
yesterday to the highest level since they were issued this year,
according to data compiled by Trace. Panamericano is being
investigated by the central bank after the controlling
shareholder, Grupo  Silvio Santos , borrowed 2.5 billion reais
($1.5 billion) from the deposit insurance fund to cover
potential losses at the bank that it said were caused by
accounting “inconsistencies.”  Brazil’s banks have sold a record $15.2 billion of debt
this year, up from $4.3 billion in all of 2009, to help finance
loan growth, tapping demand from foreign investors seeking
higher yields amid near-zero benchmark rates in the U.S. and
Europe. Concern about the industry’s financial practices may
limit bond sales from mid-sized banks, said  Bevan Rosenbloom , an
analyst with RBS Securities Inc. in Stamford, Connecticut.  “Brazilian assets were trading like a holy grail -- the
thing is there might be black sheep,” said  Cornel Bruhin , who
oversees $600 million emerging-market corporate bonds, including
Brazilian bank debt, at Clariden Leu AG in Zurich. “We may see
more weakness in the weeks ahead of us. If it’s a second, third-
tier bank, it will be more difficult for them to place bonds.”  Caixa Purchase  Panamericano’s $500 million of notes due in 2020 led
declines in Brazilian debt yesterday. Yields soared 158 basis
points, or 1.58 percentage points, to 8.98 percent as the price
sank 10.4 cents on the dollar to 97 cents. The loan the deposit
insurance fund gave to Grupo Silvio Santos, which is controlled
by TV media mogul Silvio Santos, is the biggest since 1997.  Panamericano bonds had been outperforming debt from larger
lenders before yesterday’s rout on speculation it was going to
receive an investment-grade credit rating after state-owned
Caixa Economica Federal acquired a 35 percent stake in the bank
in July.  The notes due in 2020 returned 15 percent from their issue
date in April, compared with a return of 7.8 percent over that
time on 10-year notes sold by Itau Unibanco Holding SA, the
nation’s biggest bank by market value. Brazilian corporate debt
on average gained 9 percent during that period, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s CEMBI index.  Lending Growth  Moody’s Investors Service placed Panamericano on review for
a possible downgrade yesterday because of the “rapid drop in
market valuation” over the past few days, the announcement of
the capital injection and the replacement of the management
team, according to an e-mailed statement.  “This story teaches the market to look at fundamentals,”
 Natalia Corfield , a corporate debt analyst at ING Groep INV in
New York, said in an e-mailed response to questions. “The
market ignored those elements and priced Panamericano based on
Caixa.”  Moody’s rates Caixa  Baa3 , two levels above Panamericano’s
 Ba2  ranking.  Brazilian bond offerings surged this year as banks sought
financing to boost lending amid the fastest expansion in Latin
America’s biggest economy in more than two decades.  Lending 
expanded 19.4 percent in September from a year earlier, the most
since June, the central bank said in a statement Oct. 26. The
economy will grow 7.6 percent this year after shrinking 0.2
percent in 2009, according to a central bank survey of about 100
financial institutions.  BVA Sale  Banco BVA, a Brazilian bank that specializes in loans to
mid-sized banks, plans to sell three-year bonds in its first
overseas dollar bond sale as soon as this week, according to a
person familiar with the transaction who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t set. The bank may sell the bonds
to yield 7.5 percent, said the person.  “It will be difficult for them now,” said ING’s Corfield.
“Investors might ask for more.”  Banco BVA Chief Executive Officer Benedito  Ivo Lodo Filho 
didn’t return a telephone call seeking comment.  Banco Votorantim SA, the financial services unit of
Votorantim Group, sold 250 million Swiss francs of three-year
bonds overseas yesterday to yield 2.75 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The average yield gap on Brazilian  corporate dollar bonds 
over U.S. Treasuries rose 6 basis points yesterday to 292,
according to JPMorgan. The yield difference on Brazilian
government bonds over Treasuries climbed 1 basis point to 176
today at 5:11 p.m. New York time.  Shares Tumble  The real fell 0.5 percent at 1.7157 per dollar, trimming
its advance this year to 1.7 percent. The yield on Brazil’s
overnight interest-rate futures contract due in January 2012
rose five basis points to 11.57 percent today.  The cost of protecting the nation’s debt against non-
payment for five years with credit-default swaps was unchanged
at 101, according to data compiled by CMA DataVision. Credit-
default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  The central bank is investigating whether executives at
Panamericano could face liability, said an official who declined
to be identified in accordance with government policy. Brazil’s
central bank found “inconsistencies” in Panamericano’s
accounts, according to a statement posted on its website
yesterday. The shares  plunged  30 percent yesterday.  Sale Discrepancies  Regulators first identified a problem six weeks ago when
they noticed discrepancies between the volume of credit the bank
said it sold and other banks said they bought, central bank
Supervision Director  Alvir Hoffmann  said at a news conference in
Brasilia yesterday.  Panamericano had total assets of 12.6 billion reais at the
end of the second quarter, and a credit portfolio of 10.9
billion reais, compared with 10.5 billion reais in the previous
quarter, according to its website. The lender ranks as Brazil’s
21st-largest bank by assets, according to the central bank.  Bonds and stocks of Brazil’s smallest banks tumbled after
the Panamericano investigation was disclosed.  Banco Cruzeiro  fell 1.3 percent yesterday in Sao Paulo
trading. Its 8.875 percent bonds due in 2020 sank as much as
6.25 cents on the dollar, the most they were issued on Sept. 15,
to 98.5 cents, according to Trace. The yield jumped 29 basis
points to 8.42 percent. Cruzeiro, based in Sao Paulo, has $60
million of 9 percent notes  maturing  in June and $41 million of
9.375 percent debt maturing in September, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Isolated Case’  “No one should issue bonds before the Panamericano
situation is clear,”  Fausto Guimaraes Neto , Cruzeiro’s investor
relations manager.  The 5.25 percent notes issued in October by Banco
Industrial e Comercial SA, known as BicBanco, sank 1.9 cents to
99, sending yields up 43 basis points to 5.48 percent.  The yield on Bonsucesso’s 9.25 percent debt due in 2020
jumped 64 basis points yesterday to 10.01 percent, the highest
since the debt was issued Oct. 27, according to Trace, the bond
price-reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  Brazil’s six biggest banks by market value increased
revenue an average of 14 percent in the past year and reported
average profits of 1.75 billion reais in the third quarter,
compared with 1.18 billion reais a year earlier, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Given the strength of the industry, Panamericano is
unlikely to turn investors away from Brazilian bank debt, Bruhin
said.  Panamericano “should be an isolated case,” Bruhin said.
“The Brazilian banking market has a lot to offer. I don’t see
this as a persistent threat to upcoming issuers.”  For now, investors may be cautious, RBS’s Rosenbloom said.  “When there are questions anywhere in the industry about
accounting issues, it’s likely to close up things for a while,”
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Veronica Navarro Espinosa  in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net ;
 Gabrielle Coppola  in New York at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  