-- Panamericano Is `Safest` Brazilian Bank as Regulators Probe, Bradesco Says
-- B y   F a b i o l a   M o u r a
-- 2010-11-11T13:23:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/panamericano-is-safest-brazilian-bank-as-regulators-probe-bradesco-says.html
Banco Panamericano SA  was rescued
fast enough to ensure the Brazilian lender controlled by media
mogul  Silvio Santos  continues operating and is now “the safest
bank” in the country, a  Banco Bradesco SA  executive said.  Bradesco, Brazil’s second-largest bank by market value, is
maintaining business with the Sao Paulo-based lender after its
controlling shareholder said this week it drew 2.5 billion reais
($1.5 billion) from the nation’s deposit insurance fund to shore
up capital, Bradesco Executive Vice President  Domingos Figueiredo de Abreu  said in an interview. The central bank is
probing accounting irregularities at Panamericano, Supervision
Director  Alvir Hoffmann  said yesterday.  “I don’t see any problems” doing business with
Panamericano, Abreu said in the interview yesterday in New York.
“Especially because it is for sure the safest bank nowadays.”  Panamericano shares rose 10 percent to 5.25 reais at 8:18
a.m. in New York after sinking 30 percent yesterday. Dollar
bonds due in 2020 slipped for a fifth day, pushing up the yield
to 9.2 percent from 9 percent, according to prices on Trace.  Bradesco , based in Osasco, advanced yesterday while smaller
banks declined. MSCI Inc.’s  index  for Brazilian financial
companies dropped 0.7 percent.  The nation’s largest banks “come out as the winners once
again,” as the Panamericano probe enhances their competitive
position,  Marcelo Telles , an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG,
wrote in a Nov. 10 note to clients. Bradesco retreated 1 percent
today to 36.11 reais.  “At the first moment the smaller banks can suffer a
little, but we believe it is transitory,” Abreu said.
Panamericano is “a simple, isolated case,” he said.  Regulators  Bank regulators discovered six weeks ago that there were
discrepancies between the volume of credit the bank said it sold
and other banks said they bought, Hoffmann said at a press
conference in Brasilia yesterday. The central bank probe may
cover as much as four years, he said, adding that it isn’t known
when the irregularities began.  Bradesco buys pools of credit from banks in Brazil such as
Panamericano, Abreu said.  Panamericano focuses on personal credit and mortgages. It
received funding from controlling shareholder Grupo Silvio
Santos, which tapped Brazil’s bank-financed deposit insurance
fund, known as FGC. Panamericano replaced its chief executive
officer and shuffled its board after uncovering “accounting
inconsistencies” that misrepresented the company’s assets,
according to a statement to regulators.  Panamericano  shares  sank 30 percent yesterday following the
bank’s regulatory filing. Its bonds due in 2020 plunged.  The Brazilian central bank’s monitoring of the country’s
financial institutions is “very effective,” and proof is that
Panamericano’s “flaws” were detected, Abreu said.  “The good side of this story is that it shows the system
has mechanisms,” he said. “A pretty quick decision was taken,
the controlling shareholder was called in to inject what was
missing and the tendency is that the company keeps going
normally.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fabiola Moura  in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at   lzelenko@bloomberg.net ;
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net . 