-- Panamericano Brazil Probe May Cover Four Years
-- B y   A d r i a n a   B r a s i l e i r o   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2010-11-11T13:40:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/panamericano-brazil-accounting-probe-may-cover-four-years-as-shares-sink.html
Brazil’s central bank probe into
 Banco Panamericano SA  may cover as much as four years as
regulators seek to determine why accounting irregularities
occurred at the lender controlled by media mogul  Silvio Santos .  “We don’t have enough elements to say why this was done,”
 Alvir Hoffmann , the central bank’s supervision director, said at
a press conference yesterday in Brasilia. While Banco Central
hasn’t determined when the inconsistencies began at the Sao
Paulo-based bank, they “may have started three or four years
ago,” he said.  Panamericano  shares rose as much as 14 percent today
following yesterday’s 30 percent drop after the bank disclosed a
2.5 billion reais ($1.5 billion) bailout by its controlling
shareholder Grupo Silvio Santos with financing from the nation’s
deposit insurance fund. The bank’s dollar bonds due in 2020 fell
yesterday, pushing up the yield 182 basis points, or 1.82
percentage points, to 9.22 percent.  Bank regulators noticed six weeks ago that there were
discrepancies between the volume of credit the bank declared it
sold and the amount of loan portfolios banks said they bought,
Hoffmann said. The central bank is investigating whether
executives at Panamericano face liability, said an official who
asked that his name not be used in accordance with government
policy. Brazil’s central bank found the discrepancies during
routine supervision of the financial system, Hoffmann said.  ‘Not Real’  “It’s as if I had sold a car but kept it on my income tax
return as an asset, and used that to get credit, saying I own
more than what I really have,” Hoffmann said. “The impact of
showing a result that is not real are the known impacts -- it
leads to the distribution and payments of bonuses, and
obviously, some kind of compensation for being a good generator
of profit.”  Panamericano named  Celso Antunes da Costa  as chief
executive officer, replacing  Rafael Palladino , and seven new
executive directors, after uncovering “accounting
inconsistencies” that misrepresented the company’s assets,
according on a regulatory filing on Nov. 9. The cash injection
aims to “preserve current levels of capital,” Panamericano
said in the filing.  Cash  With the funds, the bank’s cash position rose to 3.8
billion reais, enough to maintain solvency, according to an e-
mailed statement from the bank yesterday. Credit and investment
operations are continuing as normal, the bank said.  Santos may need to sell assets to inject more cash into the
bank, Valor Economico reported today, citing company officials.  Moody’s Investors Service placed Panamericano on review for
a possible credit-rating downgrade because of the “rapid drop
in market valuation” over the past few days, the capital
injection and the replacement of the management team, according
to an e-mailed statement.  The bank reported a second-quarter  net loss  of 20.9 million
reais, which was generated by additional expenses of 120 million
reais due to “changes to the criteria used for provisions,”
Moody’s said.  An official with state-controlled bank  Caixa  Economica
Federal, which paid 739 million reais for a 35 percent stake in
Panamericano in December, declined to comment. The securities
regulator based in Rio de Janeiro and known as CVM said in a
statement it doesn’t comment on specific cases. Deloitte &
Touche LLP, Panamericano’s auditor, declined to comment,
according to an e-mailed statement.  Panamericano had total assets of 12.6 billion reais at the
end of the second quarter, and a credit portfolio of 10.9
billion reais, compared with 10.5 billion reais in the previous
quarter, according to its  website . The lender ranks as Brazil’s
21st largest bank by assets, according to the central bank.  Silvio Santos  Sao Paulo-based  Grupo Silvio Santos , whose holdings include
television stations, a cosmetics maker and an electronics
retailer, put up assets as collateral for the loans from the
deposit insurance fund, Panamericano said.  Antonio Carlos Bueno ,
a director at the fund, said yesterday the assets are worth 2.7
billion reais, and that Silvio Santos participated in every
meeting over the past month to design the rescue.  Santos, 79, known for his appearances on Sunday afternoon
variety shows such as a Brazilian equivalent of “Name That
Tune” on his  SBT TV  chain, is willing to sell assets if
necessary to repay the loan to rescue the bank,  Bueno  said at a
press conference in Sao Paulo.  Santos, the son of a Greek immigrant who came to Brazil in
the 1920s, started selling plastic document holders at 14 in the
streets of downtown Rio de Janeiro, and later sold watches,
pens, books and other items on the ferries that link cities
along Rio’s Guanabara Bay.  Loan Portfolios  The probe will lead to an internal study on how financial
institutions negotiate the sales of loan portfolios to ensure a
bank doesn’t sell them more than once or sell and then keep them
on its books, the central bank’s Hoffmann said. The central bank
has no evidence of similar issues at other banks, he said.  “At the first moment the smaller banks can suffer a
little, but we believe it is transitory,”  Domingos Figueiredo de Abreu , executive vice president of Banco Bradesco SA,
Brazil’s second-largest bank by market value, said in an
interview yesterday in New York. Panamericano is “a simple,
isolated case,” he said.  Abreu said Panamericano is “the safest bank” in Brazil
after the rescue.  Shares of the smallest publicly traded Brazilian banks fell
yesterday as the investigation raised concern over industry
accounting norms.  Panamericano climbed to 5.21 reais today at
8:38 a.m. in New York after falling  to 4.77 reais yesterday.  ‘Too Early’  “People don’t know what the extent of the case is,” said
 Cornel Bruhin , who oversees $600 million of emerging-market
corporate bonds in Zurich at Clariden Leu AG. “Is there more to
come? What are the potential risks? It’s too early to tell.”  The deposit insurance  fund , known as FGC, was set up by
Brazil’s Monetary Council in 1995 with financing from banks that
operate in Brazil and can be tapped in the event of
intervention, liquidation, bankruptcy or central bank-declared
insolvency, according to its website.  The loan is the second-largest in FGC’s history after a
bailout of 3 billion reais to Banco Bamerindus do Brasil SA in
1997. That year, London-based HSBC Holdings Plc acquired control
of Bamerindus in a transaction worth $1 billion.  No public funds are being used to stabilize Panamericano,
the central bank said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Adriana Brasileiro  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 abrasileiro@bloomberg.net ;
 Andre Soliani  in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net . 