-- Peet's Seeks Coffee Acquisitions After Failing to Buy Diedrich
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2010-11-11T21:26:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/peet-s-seeks-coffee-acquisitions-after-failing-to-buy-diedrich.html
Peet’s Coffee & Tea Inc.  is
interested in acquiring a single-cup coffee business after
losing the bidding to buy  Diedrich Coffee Inc.  this year, Chief
Executive Officer  Patrick O’Dea  said.  “Any growth opportunity within specialty coffee, whether
it’s using our existing brand in new packaged forms, or an
opportunity to acquire a company we can grow, is of interest,”
O’Dea said yesterday in a telephone interview.  O’Dea said Peet’s is persisting with its plan to enter the
“fast growing” single-serving coffee market, after  Green
Mountain Coffee Roasters Inc.  trumped its offer for Diedrich,
which makes Keurig-brand coffee packets. The companies raised
their offers twice, with Waterbury, Vermont-based Green Mountain
eventually acquiring Diedrich for about $300 million in May.  O’Dea declined to identify specific acquisition targets.
Peet’s reported $28.6 million in  cash and equivalents  in the
third quarter ended Oct. 3, a 68 percent increase from the same
period a year earlier.  Specialty-coffee sales for at-home consumption, the primary
growth area for Peet’s, are increasing more than 10 percent a
year, according to O’Dea. More than 60 percent of the company’s
profit comes from consumer packaged coffee purchased outside of
the Emeryville, California-based company’s 193 retail locations,
he said.  Green Mountain’s Keurig system accounts for about 85
percent of the single-cup brewer market, according to Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC. Its competitors include Sara Lee Corp.’s
 Senseo system  and Nestle SA’s Dolce Gusto coffee maker, which
became available for purchase in 2,000 Wal-Mart Stores Inc.
outlet last month, as well as Nespresso coffee capsules and
Kraft Foods Inc.’s Tassimo T Discs.  ‘Dominant Platform’  “The Keurig platform is the dominant platform, but there
are other ones, and any time you have a market that is growing
this fast, it will attract competition,” O’Dea said.  Peet’s  rose  30 cents to $40.46 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have gained 21 percent
this year.  O’Dea said the company’s growth will come through its
consumer packaged goods business rather than from building more
stores. Peet’s plans to open just “a handful” of company-owned
shops in 2011, he said.  “The specialty-coffee market in the U.S. has become quite
mature, as evidenced by the fact that anybody who’s in the food
and beverage business is now entering into the industry,” said
O’Dea. “That includes Subway selling Seattle’s Best or
McDonald’s introducing specialty coffee.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Sherman  in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 