-- Pemex to Approve New Contracts Next Week, Kessel Says
-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z   a n d   J o n a t h a n   R o e d e r
-- 2010-11-11T01:14:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/pemex-board-to-approve-performance-based-contracts-next-week-kessel-says.html
The board of Petroleos Mexicanos,
Latin America’s largest crude producer, will likely approve
performance-based contracts for oil production and exploration,
Mexico’s Energy Minister  Georgina Kessel  said.  The board of Pemex, as the Mexico City-based company is
known, delayed the discussion of new contracts until Nov. 17,
according to an e-mailed statement today.  The contracts “have taken a little more time than
expected,” said Kessel, who is also chairwoman of the state oil
producer’s board, in an interview at the Bloomberg Economic
Summit in Mexico City. “The board has questioned some of the
changes and we’re reviewing them.”  The oil producer has yet to start taking bids for
performance-based contracts even after Mexico approved
legislation in 2008 giving private companies more flexibility to
participate in the oil sector.  Pemex currently produces about 2.56 million barrels of oil
a day.  State-owned Pemex plans to hire companies to maximize
reserves in older fields and also explore in deep waters in the
Gulf of Mexico, where it estimates it may have 30 billion
barrels of oil. Pemex is targeting companies such as  Exxon Mobil
Corp.,   Royal Dutch Shell Plc  and BP Plc. Pemex has been
preparing the performance-based accords since Mexico revised its
oil laws in 2008 to allow hiring of foreign companies.  So far, Pemex has drilled 15 deep-water wells on the
Mexican side of the Gulf of Mexico. Six of the wells have been
dry. The remaining wells have produced mostly natural gas and
some oil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carlos M. Rodriguez  in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 