-- Persian Gulf Sukuk-Sale Rebound Hinges on Property Prices: Islamic Finance
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2010-11-11T12:38:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/persian-gulf-sukuk-sale-rebound-hinges-on-property-prices-islamic-finance.html
Investor concern that Persian Gulf
property prices will extend declines is denting confidence in a
rebound of the region’s Islamic bond market.  Dubai will need another 20 months to absorb an oversupply
of homes and offices,  Mohamed Alabbar , the chairman of  Emaar
Properties PJSC , the United Arab Emirates’ biggest developer,
said Nov. 5.  Aldar Properties PJSC , Abu Dhabi’s largest real-
estate company, posted its biggest loss on record in the third
quarter and said two days ago it’s working with the emirate’s
government to help cover cash requirements.  Real-estate prices have tumbled more than 50 percent since
their 2008 peak in Dubai and 30 percent in neighboring Abu Dhabi
as banks tightened mortgage lending and speculators fled the
market. Property is used as collateral for Shariah-compliant
bonds, which are backed by assets and pay a share of profit
instead of interest.  “This asset class is less attractive than it used to be
and has made sukuk issuers struggle to gather the right type of
underlying assets that would attract investors,” Ashar Nazim,
Manama-based executive director and head of Islamic financial
services for Ernst & Young LLP, Bahrain said in a telephone
interview Nov. 9.  The yield on Aldar’s 5.767 percent convertible sukuk due in
November 2011 gained 88 basis points, or 0.88 percentage point,
this quarter to 8.79 percent yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It reached this year’s high of 11.37
percent on Aug. 11. The company will need 9.8 billion dirhams
($2.7 billion) by 2011 to “survive,” Bank of America Merrill
Lynch said in a report dated Nov. 2.  Aldar’s Needs  Sukuk sales in the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council have
slumped 78 percent so far this year to $4 billion from a record
$18.2 billion in all of 2007, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  One company in the GCC, Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank PJSC, has
sold sukuk since state-owned Dubai World said in September it
reached an accord with most its creditors to restructure $24.9
billion of debt. Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank sold $750 million of
bonds this quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Issuers raised $3.2 billion in the previous nine months. Non-
Islamic issuers have sold $12.6 billion in the fourth quarter,
the data show.  Saudi Aramco and Total SA said last month they plan a $1
billion sukuk sale and Albaraka Banking Group, Bahrain’s largest
listed Islamic bank, said Oct. 31 it expects to issue $200
million of Shariah-compliant bonds by year’s end. Those are the
only deals announced for the rest of 2010.  Dar Al Arkan Real Estate Development Co., Saudi Arabia’s
biggest developer by market value, had its credit ratings cut
one level to Ba3, the third-highest junk ranking, by Moody’s
Investors Service yesterday. The company in February sold $450
million of five-year Islamic bonds.  Sukuk Yields  The average yield on sukuk sold by GCC issuers rose six
basis points yesterday to 5.37 percent, paring its decline this
quarter to 72 points, according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai GCC US
Dollar Sukuk Index . The  difference  between the average yield for
emerging-market sukuk and the London interbank offered rate
widened 0.8 basis point to 336.6 yesterday and has narrowed 36
points since Sept. 30, the HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk
Index showed.  The yield on Dubai’s 6.396 percent sukuk maturing in
November 2014 fell 12 basis points to 6.13 percent today,
bringing its decline this quarter to 32.5 points, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. The extra yield investors demand to hold
Dubai’s government sukuk rather than Malaysia’s narrowed 14
basis points today to 359.  The yield on Malaysia’s 3.928 percent Islamic note due in
June 2015 rose 2 basis points to 2.5 percent today, according to
prices provided by Royal Bank of Scotland Plc.  Islamic bonds in the GCC returned 13 percent this year,
according to the HSBC/ NASDAQ Dubai GCC US Dollar Sukuk Index ,
compared with 12 percent for global sukuk, the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai
US Dollar Index  shows. Bonds in developing markets returned 16
percent this year, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s  EMBI Global
Diversified Index .  Growth, Real Estate  “The growth in the sukuk market is parallel to a recovery
in real estate,”  Muhammad Said Abdel Wahab , chief financial
officer of Kuwait Finance House, the country’s largest Islamic
bank, said in Dubai Nov. 3. “Till now, the sukuk market does
not offer a lot of diversification in assets” and it has been
slow to recover, he said.  Not all Islamic bonds use real estate as collateral,  Louis Najem , fixed-income sales trader at Dubai’s Rasmala Investment
Bank Ltd. said Nov. 9. Saudi Electricity Co.’s 7 billion riyal
($1.87 billion) sukuk sold earlier this year is underwritten by
the company’s income from fees, such as connection charges,
according to the note’s prospectus.  Nakheel Restructuring  “That said, the drop in real-estate prices hit some of
Dubai’s largest companies pretty hard, and played a role in the
Dubai World restructuring through Nakheel and its paper, making
Islamic bonds less attractive to investors,” Najem said in an
e-mailed response to questions.  Nakheel PJSC, a unit of Dubai World and the developer of
the palm-shaped islands off Dubai’s coast, said July 14 a group
of its creditors unanimously supported a plan to alter the terms
on $10.5 billion debt. The yield on Nakheel’s 2.75 percent $750
million Islamic notes due in January 2011 gained 214 basis
points this quarter to 12.2 percent yesterday, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dana El Baltaji  in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  