-- Peru Holds Benchmark Rate for Second Month on Falling Prices, Fed Stimulus
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2010-11-11T23:40:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/peru-holds-benchmark-rate-for-second-month-on-falling-prices-fed-stimulus.html
Peru’s central bank kept its
benchmark lending rate unchanged for a second month as falling
prices allow policy makers to gauge the effect of U.S. stimulus
measures and surging inflows on the country’s currency.  The seven-member board, led by bank President  Julio Velarde , held the bank’s  reference rate  at 3 percent, matching
the forecasts of 13 of 14 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg. One
economist expected a quarter-point rise.  Peru’s  consumer prices  fell for a second month in
October, allowing the bank to extend its pause after five rate
increases since May, said  Alonso Segura , head of research at
Banco de Credito del Peru. The U.S. Federal Reserve’s plan to
buy $600 billion of Treasuries in a second round of quantitative
easing has fueled concern that inflows may grow if Peru, the
region’s fastest growing major economy, raises interest rates.  “ With inflation negative, core inflation stable, and QE
in the U.S., it’s not the right time” to raise rates, Segura
said in a phone interview from Lima. “The bank should feel
relatively comfortable with the rate at 3 percent.”  Inflows pushed the sol to a two-year high in September as
the currency became more appealing to investors who buy higher-
yielding currencies with funds borrowed in countries with lower-
interest rates.  Inflation  Consumer  prices dropped  0.14 percent last month from
September, the second straight decline. The annual inflation
rate slowed to 2.10 percent from 2.37 percent.  The central bank targets annual inflation of 1 percent to 3
percent.  Today’s decision “takes into account the recent trend in
inflation and its determinants, which justify continuing with
the pause in preventative rises in the reference rate,” the
central bank said in a  statement  posted on its website.  Future increases will depend on new information about
inflation and the "international financial context,’’ the bank
said.  The central bank has increased reserve requirements on
short-term foreign loans and on foreign banks’ deposits in the
country as part of measures to curb speculative inflows.  The bank has also sold new securities and  bought  almost $9
billion in the foreign exchange market to temper gains in the
sol, swelling foreign currency reserves to $43 billion.  Policy makers are ready to implement other measures to
prevent any new surge in inflows from pressuring the sol,  Renzo Rossini , the bank’s general manager, said Oct. 14.  Dollars tied to long-term investment projects and rising
 exports  are also pouring into Peru. Foreign direct investment
rose 23 percent to $3.4 billion in the first half of 2010, from
$2.8 billion a year earlier, according to the United Nations.  Container Pier  Projects concluded this year include Hunt Oil Co.’s $4
billion liquefied natural gas plant, DP World Ltd’s $600 million
container pier in Callao, and Vale SA’s $300 million Bayovar
phosphate mine.  The sol has gained 3.1 percent in 2010, the fourth-best
performance of Latin American currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The central bank is trying to stem pressure on the local
currency rather than weaken it, and will likely avoid “heavy-
handed” measures such as taxes on inflows, said  Mike Moran , a
currency strategist at Standard Chartered Bank.  “They will tinker at the edges to make sure there’s a
greater balance in terms of inflow and outflow,” said Moran in
a phone interview from New York. “For a lot of the Latin
Americans now, monetary policy is driven by both the local rates
structures as well as the strength of the currencies.”  Regional Moves  Under pressure to stem the rise in local currencies,
Brazilian policy makers paused at their last two meetings and
Colombia’s central bank kept its interbank rate at a record low
3 percent at its Oct. 29 meeting.  Chile’s central bank slowed the pace of increases last
month and said the peso’s appreciation was mitigating inflation
and may reduce the need for future rate increases.  Though inflation is contained, Peruvian government outlays
are rising and economic activity remains “vigorous,” Banco de
Credito said in a Nov. 3 report.  Growth in South America’s sixth-biggest economy
 unexpectedly  accelerated in August. Peruvian Finance Minister
 Ismael Benavides  said today the country’s  gross domestic product 
may have expanded at a rate “close to double-digits” in
September from the same month a year earlier.  The country will have the lowest inflation in the region
this year at around 2.2 percent to 2.5 percent despite higher
commodity prices, Benavides said at an event in the city of
Cuzco today.  Reduce Poverty  “The IMF has calculated Peru will grow at least 6 percent
a year,” Benavides said. “It’s our job to grow more than 7
percent because Peru needs to reduce poverty -- and for that it
needs to grow more.”  Investors now expect Peru’s central bank to pause for at
least the next two months as deflation signals slower growth in
domestic demand,  Manuel Aldave , head of investments at Banco
Internacional del Peru, said in a Nov. 4 interview.  “Inflation is still within the target range and supply
side pressures have been easing in the last few months,” said
 Mario Guerrero , an economist at Scotiabank Peru.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Quigley  in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  