-- Petronas Chemicals IPO Said to Get Orders for 10 Times Shares
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u ,   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   M i c h a e l   T s a n g
-- 2010-11-12T10:09:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/petronas-chemicals-ipo-is-said-to-get-orders-for-10-times-available-shares.html
Petronas Chemicals Group Bhd.  raised
12.8 billion ringgit ($4.1 billion) in Malaysia’s biggest
initial public offering after pricing shares at the top of its
projected range.  Demand exceeded supply, with the institutional offering
attracting orders for about 92.6 billion ringgit worth of shares,
the Kuala Lumpur-based petrochemicals group said in a statement
today. The company, a unit of state oil company Petroliam
Nasional Bhd., priced the shares at 5.20 ringgit each for
institutions, it said  The benchmark  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index  rose 18
percent this year and reached a  record  on Nov. 10, as
international investors purchased more of the nation’s stocks
than at any time since at least 1995, according to data compiled
by EPFR Global. The IPO values Petronas Chemicals at 38.8
billion ringgit, or 16.3 times profit, a 38 percent premium to
the industry median.  “The environment is good for them,” said  Katherine Schapiro , a San Francisco-based manager at Sentinel Asset
Management Inc., which oversees $20 billion. “There’s a lot of
demand for Asian stocks, especially big ones.”  Banks advising on the sale set an indicative price range of
4.50 ringgit to 5.20 ringgit per share for institutions, two
people familiar with the matter said on Oct. 26. Individual
investors will get a 3 percent discount, according to its
prospectus.  Global Interest  “The book-building exercise attracted significant interest
from various types of investors globally,” Petronas Chemicals
chairman  Wan Zulkiflee Wan Ariffin  said in the statement.  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd.,  Deutsche Bank AG  and Morgan
Stanley are managing the IPO, while Citigroup Inc. and UBS AG
are co-bookrunners for the portion of the sale to institutional
investors, according to the prospectus.  At the midpoint, the IPO would give government-owned
Petronas a 184 percent return on its per-share stake valued at
1.71 ringgit, according to the prospectus and Bloomberg data.  The sale would eclipse the record $3.3 billion IPO from
Kuala Lumpur-based Maxis Bhd., Malaysia’s biggest mobile-phone
operator, last year and lift the nation’s initial offerings to
an all-time high, the data show.  Investment Plan  Petronas Chemicals, formed through the combination of more
than 20 companies, will offer 2.48 billion shares for a 31
percent stake, the  prospectus  said. Petronas will get 72 percent
of the proceeds, while the chemicals unit plans to use the
remainder to build facilities and fund acquisitions.  Petronas Chemicals intends to pay 50 percent of annual
earnings as dividends to shareholders, the prospectus said.  Wan Zulkiflee, the company’s chairman, said on Nov. 2 it
may invest as much as $1 billion in an ammonia and urea plant in
eastern Malaysia that will use the nation’s natural-gas reserves
in that area. Malaysia is the world’s second-largest supplier of
liquefied natural gas.  Petronas’s holding in Petronas Chemicals was valued at
12.47 billion ringgit, or 1.71 ringgit a share, at the time of
the unit’s formation, the prospectus said. The midpoint IPO
price would make Kuala Lumpur-based Petronas Chemicals one of
Malaysia’s 10 largest publicly traded companies, the data show.  Not Cheap  Buyers would be paying about 16.3 times profits, based on
the 1.19 billion ringgit the unit earned in the six months ended
Sept. 30, the prospectus and data compiled by Bloomberg show.
That compares with the median 11.8 times estimated earnings for
31 petrochemical companies globally, which gained an average of
47 percent so far this year.  Honam Petrochemical Corp. , the Seoul-based maker of
ethylene that is acquiring Malaysia’s Titan Chemicals Corp.,
trades at 8.1 times estimated profit. The shares have more than
doubled in 2010.  “Petronas Chemicals is not coming to the market cheap,”
said  Christopher Wong , a Singapore-based senior investment
manager for Asian equities at  Aberdeen Asset Management Plc ,
which oversees $267 billion. “It’s quite encouraging for the
Malaysian market to see appetite for risk.”  The valuation for Petronas Chemicals reflects a premium of
8.9 percent to shares in Malaysia. The 30 companies in the FTSE
Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index trade at an average  14.97 times profit 
in the next 12 months after the gauge climbed to a record
1,528.01 on Nov. 10, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Capital Flow  The stock index exceeded the previous high in January 2008
as investors poured more than $355 million into Malaysian equity
funds on a net basis in 2010, data compiled by Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based  EPFR Global  show. Asian IPOs have attracted
a record $142 billion this year, Bloomberg data show.  “There’s a lot of money heading into Asia,” said  Greg Lesko , who helps oversee $750 million at New York-based Deltec
Asset Management. “For some of the larger funds, deals like
this are opportunities to get reasonably well invested.”  The  Employees Provident Fund  and Kumpulan Wang Persaraan
(Diperbadankan), two of Malaysia’s state-controlled retirement
funds that oversee more than $150 billion, will buy 18 percent
of the offering as strategic investors, the prospectus said.  The IPO of Petronas Chemicals is part of Prime Minister
 Najib Razak’s  plan to attract more overseas investment by
selling state-owned assets. The government eased rules last year
that forced publicly traded companies to set aside 30 percent of
their equity to ethnic Malays who form the majority of the
population.  State Divestment  Malaysia Marine & Heavy Engineering Holdings Bhd., the
Kuala Lumpur-based rig-building arm of Petronas’s MISC Bhd.,
raised about 2 billion ringgit last month in the nation’s
biggest IPO so far this year. Institutions placed orders for 27
times the number of shares they were allocated.  The country’s  finance ministry  may also divest its holdings
in Percetakan Nasional Malaysia Bhd., the state-owned printing
company, CTRM Aero Composites Sdn., an aerospace components
maker, and two biotechnology companies, Najib said in March.  Malaysia’s economy  is projected to expand 6.7 percent in
2010, the fastest in six years and more than twice the pace of
industrialized nations, according to the Washington-based
International Monetary Fund.  “It’s a very significant step forward for Malaysia,” said
 Michael Holland , who oversees more than $4 billion as chairman
of Holland & Co. in New York. “It’s one more indication of how
the Asian countries are beginning to be the beacon of
strength.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  in New York at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 