-- PetroChina, Sinopec Advance on Speculation China May Increase Fuel Prices
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-11T08:19:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/petrochina-gains-on-speculation-china-may-boost-fuel-prices.html
China’s biggest refiners, including
 PetroChina Co. , rose by their daily limit in Shanghai trading as
crude climbed to a two-year high, prompting speculation the
government will raise fuel prices for the third time this year.  PetroChina and  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. , known as
Sinopec, earlier jumped as much as 10 percent, outpacing gains
in the benchmark Shanghai Composite Index.  China last increased fuel prices by 3 percent on Oct. 26
under a mechanism that allows the government to revise gasoline
and diesel prices when crude costs change more than 4 percent
over 22 working days. Crude futures in New York have risen 7.2
percent since last month’s adjustment.  “Oil prices are the primary reason supporting the shares
today,”  Yin Xiaodong , an analyst with Beijing-based Citic
Securities Co., said by telephone today. “Some investors are
speculating that domestic retail fuel prices will be raised if
crude continues to rise.”  Crude in New York rose as much as 0.8 percent to $88.55 a
barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange,
the highest since Oct. 9, 2008. Futures were at $88.41 a barrel
at 4:11 p.m. Singapore time.  Oil has rallied 12 percent in 2010 as depleting fuel
stockpiles in the U.S., the world’s largest crude consumer,
signaling a recovery in demand.  PetroChina rose 7.7 percent to close at 12.74 yuan, the
most since Sept. 22, 2008. Sinopec gained 5.2 percent to 9.49
yuan, the biggest advance since Dec. 14. The benchmark  index 
climbed 1 percent.  Record Processing  China’s crude oil processing volume rose to a record last
month after refiners increased production to ease a domestic
fuel shortage, the China Mainland Marketing Research Co., which
compiles data for the National Bureau of Statistics, said today.  “The diesel shortage and stronger processing data add to
the positive sentiment for Sinopec and PetroChina,” Yin said.  Sinopec, the nation’s largest refiner, increased production
to a record in October, parent China Petrochemical Corp. said on
Nov. 4.  -- Wang Ying  and  Chua Kongho . Editors:  Ryan Woo ,  Aaron Sheldrick .  To contact the Bloomberg staff on this story:
Ying Wang in Beijing at 
 ywang30@bloomberg.net ;
Chua Kong Ho in Shanghai at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 