-- Petrobras Quarterly Profit Rises to $5 Billion, Misses Estimates
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2010-11-12T20:47:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/petrobras-reports-third-quarter-profit-climbed-7-9-to-8-57-billion-reais.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA , the oil
producer that raised $70 billion in a share sale this year, fell
the most in three weeks after quarterly profit trailed some
analysts’ estimates and oil prices fell the most in more than
three weeks.  Third-quarter net income rose to 8.57 billion reais ($5
billion), or 97 centavos a share, from 7.94 billion reais, or 90
centavos, a year earlier, Rio de Janeiro-based Petrobras said
yesterday in a statement. Sales gained 14 percent to 54.7
billion reais.  The state-controlled company expanded output at a slower-
than-expected pace and results from its supply, distribution,
and gas & energy units declined, according to the statement.
Refining costs surged 45 percent to $4.89 a barrel in Brazil,
while so-called lifting costs, or the expense to extract the
crude from fields, rose about 18 percent to $10.60 a barrel.  “If the government and the unions continue to see this as
the goose that lays the golden egg, western investors will
become wary of watching returns marginalize,” said  Ted Harper ,
who helps manage about $6.8 billion at Frost Investment Advisors
in Houston, including Petrobras shares.  “If we start to see a meaningful degradation in terms of
profitability per barrel, you can bet that the stock is going to
suffer the consequences,” he said in a telephone interview.  ‘Disappointed’ Investors  The administration of Brazilian President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  has “disappointed” investors by failing to improve
efficiency, cut costs and trim staff at the company, said  Mirela Rappaport , who helps manage about 160 million reais at
Investport in Sao Paulo, including Petrobras shares.  Lula and President-elect  Dilma Rousseff , his handpicked
successor who takes office on Jan. 1, are tightening the state’s
grip on the domestic oil industry after the discovery of the
Tupi field, which contains as much as 8 billion barrels of oil.
Lula says Brazil is relying on the country’s oil wealth to help
raise the nation’s 192 million residents out poverty.  Petrobras  fell 87 centavos, or 3.3 percent, to 25.85 reais
at 6:09 p.m. in Sao Paulo. The stock has plunged 30 percent this
year, compared with a 2.6 percent gain for Brazil’s benchmark
Bovespa index.  Oil fell from a two-year high on speculation China may
attempt to rein in inflation by raising interest rates, curbing
demand for energy. Crude oil for December delivery fell $2.93 to
settle at $84.88 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
Oil futures in New York averaged 12 percent higher in the third
quarter compared with a year earlier.  ‘Skyrocketing’ Costs  Profit, excluding some items, was forecast to be 8.74
billion reais, the average  estimate  of seven analysts in a
Bloomberg survey. Still, earnings per share and sales beat
forecasts.  Petrobras’s “skyrocketing” refining costs and higher oil
production costs are a “source of concern,”  Paula Kovarsky , an
analyst at Itau Unibanco Holding SA who rates the stock “market
perform,” said in a note to clients. Unions are likely to win
wage increases and drive costs higher, she said.  Government caps on fuel prices ate into refining profit as
Petrobras was unable to pass on rising costs compared with
competitors such as  Exxon Mobil Corp.  and Royal Dutch Shell Plc.
Petrobras cut gasoline prices by 4.5 percent and diesel 15
percent in June 2009 and hasn’t increased them since.  “In general, almost every variable that we look at came in
marginally worse,” BTG Pactual analysts led by  Gustavo Gattass 
said in a note to clients. “We tend to believe that Petrobras’s
stock is likely to trade down on the results.”  Missing Targets  Oil and natural-gas output in Brazil and abroad rose in the
quarter by 1.4 percent to 2.57 million barrels a day. The
company will miss its target for 2010 crude-oil output in Brazil
of 2.1 million barrels a day by more than 2.5 percent because of
shutdowns for maintenance at several offshore platforms, Chief
Executive Officer  Jose Sergio Gabrielli  said Nov. 9.  Petrobras is investing $224 billion in the five years
through 2014 to boost output and expand its refining capacity.
The company will revise its investment plan next year to include
the development of new oil reserves it bought from the
government as part of its share sale earlier this year and said
it received on average $72.10 a barrel for its oil in Brazil,
compared with $64 a barrel a year earlier.  Profit from the company’s exploration and production
operations, its biggest unit, rose 31 percent, offsetting lower
results from the other units such as gas & energy and
distribution, Petrobras said.  Petrobras posted a 1.97 billion-real financial gain, up 36
percent from a year earlier, after the real rose 7 percent
against the dollar in the quarter.  Currency Fluctuations  “These currency fluctuations are volatilities that are
part of the process,” Chief Financial Officer  Almir Barbassa 
told reporters yesterday in Rio de Janeiro.  Petrobras will need to sell $32 billion of new debt through
2014 and roll over an additional $38 billion as it seeks to
double production over the next decade, Chief Executive Officer
 Jose Sergio Gabrielli  told reporters in Rio de Janeiro Nov. 9.  Petrobras  is developing the offshore Tupi field and may
take a minimum stake of 30 percent in the government’s Libra
field, the Americas’ biggest oil discoveries since Mexico’s
Cantarell in 1976. Tupi and Libra, which may hold as much as 8
billion barrels and 15 billion barrels, respectively, are in a
deep-water region known as the pre-salt along Brazil’s coast.  The company will invest about $7 billion to $8 billion
through 2014 in deepwater fields that it purchased from the
government in exchange for new stock, Barbassa said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Millard  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  