-- Portugal Loses European High Court Ruling Over `Golden Shares' at EDP
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2010-11-11T15:39:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/portugal-loses-european-high-court-ruling-over-golden-shares-at-edp.html
Portugal’s veto rights at  EDP-
Energias de Portugal SA  are unlawful and unjustified, the
European Union’s highest court ruled.  So-called golden shares give the government an unjustified
influence over the country’s biggest power company, the  European
Court of Justice  in Luxembourg said today.  “By maintaining in EDP special rights attributed to it by
means of golden shares, Portugal has failed to fulfill its
obligations in respect of the free movement of capital,” the
court said.  The dispute is part of a protracted fight by the Brussels-
based European Commission against governments owning golden
shares, which the regulator claims hamper investors. The court
in July rejected Portugal’s veto rights at  Portugal Telecom SGPS
SA  and a similar EU lawsuit is pending against oil company  Galp
Energia SGPS SA .  EU court rulings on golden shares have forced countries
including Spain, France, the U.K. and Italy to give up special
rights in former public monopolies.  The European Commission, the 27-nation EU’s executive
agency, said in a 2008  lawsuit  that Portugal’s privileged rights
infringe EU rules, by limiting the movement of capital and the
freedom of companies to set up in the region.  EDP said today’s ruling was a matter for the Portuguese
government. Portugal’s Finance Ministry said in an e-mail it
won’t comment until it’s analyzed the ruling.  Belgium won a 2002 ruling that the nation’s golden shares
in Distrigaz SA and Societe Nationale de Transport par
Canalisations helped protect energy supplies in the event of a
crisis.  Today’s case is C-543/08 European Commission v Portuguese
Republic.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephanie Bodoni  in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  