-- Portuguese, Irish Debt Lead Peripheral Drop on Budget Concern
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2010-11-11T16:09:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/portugal-spain-bonds-drop-as-france-backs-germany-on-debt-restructurings.html
Irish government bonds tumbled for a
13th day on mounting concern that the nation will be forced to
restructure its finances.  Spanish bonds also headed for a 13th day of declines as
data showed the nation’s economic growth stalled. French Finance
Minister  Christine Lagarde  said yesterday that investors must
share in the cost of safeguarding sovereign debt. German bunds
advanced on demand for the safest assets, while Portuguese debt
recovered from earlier losses. Italian bonds fell.  “Lagarde’s comments mentioned restructuring, and that’s
another nail in the coffin” for so-called peripheral nations’
debt, said  Steven Major , global head of fixed-income research at
HSBC Holdings Plc in London. “There’s still a big constituency
of investors and traders who have not recognized until now that
restructuring could happen.”  The yield on the Irish 10-year bond added 31 basis points
to 9.07 percent at 4:18 p.m. in London. The 5 percent security
maturing in October 2020 slipped 1.65, or 16.5 euros per 1,000-
euro ($1,367) face amount, to 74.09. The decline  extends
 the longest losing streak in at least three years.  Irish securities slid yesterday as clearing house LCH
Clearnet Ltd. demanded its clients place a larger deposit when
trading the debt. The Irish  spread  over bunds reached an all-
time high of 652 basis points, or 6.52 percentage points,
Bloomberg generic data shows.  Best Bids  The best bid for Irish 10-year bonds was 9.07 percent, or a
price of 74.09, while the nearest offer was at 8.61 percent, or
a price of 76.55, Bloomberg data show.  “The wide bid-offer spread indicates how thin trading has
become, and reflects a lack of two-way market activity,” said
 Peter Chatwell , an interest-rate strategist at Credit Agricole
Corporate & Investment Bank in London.  For 10-year bunds, the difference between the bid and the
offer was less than one basis point, the Bloomberg data show.  The euro weakened, stocks declined and the cost to insure
Portuguese, Spanish and Irish sovereign debt from default rose
to a record.  “All stakeholders must participate in the gains and losses
of any particular situation,” Lagarde said during an interview
in Paris for Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move” with
 Francine Lacqua . “There are many, many ways to address this
point of principle.”  Portugal Pares Drop  Portuguese 10-year bonds pared a decline which earlier
today widened the yield difference, or spread, over benchmark
German bunds to as much as 484 basis points, a record, according
to Bloomberg generic data. The spread was little changed at 459
basis points. The Portuguese 10-year yield was at 7.15 percent,
down two basis points from yesterday.  Peripheral nations’ bonds have dropped since European Union
leaders agreed on Oct. 29 to consider German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s proposal for a permanent rescue mechanism that would
involve restructuring with losses for private holders of
sovereign debt. The proposal is part of discussions to create a
permanent crisis facility to replace the rescue fund created in
May after Greece’s near-default.  Greek bonds erased declines which earlier today drove the
Greek-German 10-year spread as wide as 930 basis points. That
compares with the record 973 basis-point premium reached on May
7 before the European Union crafted a rescue package worth 750
billion euros. The 10-year Greek yield dropped three basis
points to 11.68 percent.  CDS Prices Rise  The yield on the 10-year German bund, Europe’s benchmark,
fell one basis point to 2.44 percent. The yield on 10-year
Spanish bonds rose seven basis points to 4.60 percent.  The cost to insure Irish government debt against default
rose 20 basis points to a record 617, according to data provider
CMA, using credit-default swap prices. CDS’s on Portugal added
17 basis points to 494 and Spain’s rose 12 to 289.  Irish central bank Governor  Patrick Honohan  said he’s
convinced the country will be able to return to bond markets in
2011 as the government steps up austerity measures to restore
investor confidence.  Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan ’s plan involves 15 billion
euros in savings over four years to reduce the deficit below the
EU limit of 3 percent of gross domestic product by 2014. The
deficit will be about 12 percent of GDP this year, or 32 percent
of GDP when the costs of the banking rescue are included.  ‘Calming Words’  “There is no reason why Ireland shouldn’t be able to go
back to bond markets next year,” Honohan, who also sits on the
European Central Bank’s 22-member Governing Council, told
Bloomberg Television in an interview in Dublin yesterday. “It
takes time for markets to be reassured. It takes more than
calming words from me or others.”  Spanish bonds stayed lower as data showed the nation’s
 economy  stalled in the third quarter as the deepest austerity
measures in three decades undermined the recovery from an almost
two-year recession.  Gross domestic product  was unchanged from the previous
three months after two quarters of expansion, the  National
Statistics Institute  in Madrid said, confirming a Nov. 5
estimate by the Bank of Spain. The economy expanded 0.2 percent
from a year earlier, the first annual increase in two years.  Spanish Spread  The Spanish-German 10-year yield  spread  widened to 215
basis points today from 206 yesterday. That’s still below an
intraday euro-era high of 232 basis points reached on June 17.  The Italian 10-year bond fell for a sixth straight day, its
longest run of declines since June, before the nation sells as
much as 8.25 billion euros of 2015, 2026 and 2034 debt tomorrow.  The spread against bunds was at 176 basis points, up from
166 basis points yesterday. That compares with a peak of 185.5
basis points reached on June 8.  “Italian paper has been under pressure recently on a
combination of periphery woes and political uncertainty,”
 Chiara Cremonesi , a fixed-income strategist at UniCredit SpA in
London, wrote in an e-mailed report today. “We expect demand at
tomorrow’s auction to be good,” with “support from the current
level of spread,” she said.  Bunds have returned 8.5 percent this year, the same as U.S.
Treasuries, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Greek debt
lost 18.7 percent, Portuguese bonds lost 10.6 percent and Irish
securities declined 14.3 percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 Kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  