-- Pound Gains Versus Euro for 6th Day on `Tailwinds' From Inflation Report
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2010-11-11T17:08:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/pound-gains-versus-euro-for-6th-day-on-tailwinds-from-inflation-report.html
The pound appreciated through 85
pence per euro for the first time in more than six weeks amid
growing speculation that the Bank of England won’t extend its
asset-purchase program to support the economic recovery.  The pound strengthened against the common currency for a
sixth day, the longest winning streak since April 8. The central
bank, led by Governor  Mervyn King , yesterday predicted higher
inflation for next year and said it’s “ready to respond in
either direction” as price-rises are equally likely to exceed
or undershoot the 2 percent target over two years. The euro slid
against 13 of the world’s 16 most traded currencies today amid
mounting concern that so-called euro-area peripheral nations,
including Ireland, may need bailouts.  “The pound is still enjoying some tailwinds from the
inflation report,” said  Geoffrey Yu , a foreign-exchange
strategist at UBS AG in London. “There was selective reading;
when Mervyn King said there are strong upside and downside
risks, people just read the first part of the sentence.”  Sterling gained 1 percent to 84.69 pence per euro at
4:59 p.m. in London, after appreciating to 84.56, the strongest
level since Sept. 28. It was 0.1 percent stronger against the
dollar at $1.6133.  The U.K. currency has dropped 3.1 percent against a basket
of currencies in 2010, according to Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Currency Indexes.  Bank of England officials voted to leave their bond-
purchase plan at 200 billion pounds on Nov. 4, declining to
follow the U.S. Federal Reserve in adding stimulus, as the
strength of the U.K. recovery persuaded them to hold off further
easing. Gross domestic product grew 0.8 percent in the third
quarter, twice as fast as analysts had forecast.  Fewer Repossessions  The Council for Mortgage Lenders today said the nation’s
banks repossessed 5 percent fewer homes in the third quarter
than in the previous three months as low interest rates helped
people keep up with mortgage payments.  U.K. government bonds were little changed with the yield on
the 10-year gilt at 3.17 percent. The two-year note yield was at
1.03 percent.  The Treasury sold 2 billion pounds of 4.5 percent gilts
maturing in September 2034 at a yield of 4.194 percent. The sale
drew bids of 1.53 times the amount on offer compared with 1.87
times when they were sold in June, the nation’s Debt Management
Office said.  Irish and Spanish 10-year securities declined for a 13th
consecutive day on mounting concern that nations on Europe’s
periphery will be forced to restructure their debt.  Peripheral nations’ bonds have dropped since European Union
leaders agreed on Oct. 29 to consider German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s proposal for a permanent rescue mechanism, which would
impose losses on private holders of sovereign debt.  Gilts rose 7.8 percent this year, while German bonds and
U.S. Treasuries have returned 8.5 percent, according to indexes
compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lucy Meakin  in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 