-- Premier League May Limit Spending by Soccer Clubs, Bolton's Gartside Says
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2010-11-11T00:01:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/premier-league-may-limit-soccer-club-spending-bolton-s-gartside-says.html
England’s Premier League may force
clubs to limit spending with rules similar to those planned by
European soccer’s governing body to avoid threats to teams’
financial stability, Bolton Wanderers Chairman  Phil Gartside 
said.  While the Premier League has the highest revenue in world
soccer, most of its 20 clubs operate at a loss. Last season
Portsmouth was the first of the top division teams to seek
bankruptcy protection after building up more than 100 million
pounds ($161 million) of debt.   UEFA  rules from next season will limit clubs’ expenditure
to what they earn, and teams would be banned from competitions
such as the Champions League if they can’t control costs over a
three-year period. Premier League officials are in discussions
and may adopt similar rules within two seasons, Gartside said in
an interview.  “There are ways of tweaking it that would suit the English
game better,” said Gartside, a board member of the  Football
Association , English soccer’s ruling body. “Owners should be
allowed to invest in equity. So if you, as an owner, want to buy
a striker for 10 million (pounds) that shouldn’t be a problem.
But what you then can’t do is pay him extortionate wages that
take you out of the breakeven situation.”  The Premier League’s income has soared since it started in
1992. Its current 3 billion-pound television contract is the
highest in world soccer, yet those gains have been lost to
rising player salaries.  About half the Premier League is foreign-owned by investors
such as the Glazer family of the U.S. at Manchester United and
Russia’s  Roman Abramovich  at Chelsea.  Liverpool Bought  Even so, sports investors such as  Robert Kraft , owner of
the National Football League’s New England Patriots, have said
the lack of a wage cap has made them leery of English soccer.  “I’ve been chairman for 12 years and on the board for 21.
We’ve never had an approach from anyone to buy it in all that
time,” Gartside said. “I think there’s a general acceptance
that we need something. It’s a question of tuning the detail
that meets the circumstances we’ve got.”  UEFA’s new regulations were a factor in New England Sports
Ventures deal to buy 18-time English champion Liverpool last
month, its principal owner  John W. Henry  said after completing
the 300 million-pound takeover.  “When we looked at Liverpool, the first thing that struck
us was there are opportunities here to really build a winner,”
Henry said.  “The revenue potentials around the world -- it is
a global football club -- and especially with the financial fair
play rules, it is really going to be revenue that drives how
good your club can be in the future.”  Tougher Rules  Gartside said Richard Scudamore, the Premier League’s chief
executive officer, is pushing for tougher rules on club
finances. The Premier League declined to comment.  “Richard’s keener than anybody,” he said. “I think he’s
concerned as much as anybody about the financial state. We keep
upping the income and we keep losing more money. It’s
ridiculous.”  In October, Manchester City, owned by  Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed  Al Nahyan, reported the Premier League’s second-highest
ever annual loss of 121 million pounds. Chelsea had a 132.8
million-pound deficit in 2005.  Larry Schechter , a banker with investment bank Schechter &
Co., said that whatever the league decides the rules must be
enforced.  “Unless these rules are strictly governed they’ll be
meaningless,” he said. It would take years for many teams to
get to a breakeven position, he added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 