-- ProBatter Sells Simulators to MLB Clubs, National Cricket Teams
-- B y   K a r e n   E .   K l e i n
-- 2010-11-11T18:35:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/probatter-sells-simulators-to-mlb-clubs-national-cricket-teams.html
In 1999, Greg Battersby, a volunteer
youth baseball coach, wanted to boost his son’s batting average.
Where most dads might schedule extra practice, Battersby, an
intellectual property attorney, teamed up with a mechanical
engineer. They invented the ProBatter, a virtual reality
pitching simulator that lets a hitter face the life-size image
of a pitcher winding up and delivering a pitch.  The device holds 13 U.S. and 20 international patents and is
used by six major league clubs (the New York Yankees, Boston Red
Sox, New York Mets, Cincinnati Reds, Cleveland Indians, and
Pittsburgh Pirates) and numerous Division I colleges, according
to Battersby. The product line runs from $6,000 for a video
conversion kit for an existing pitching machine to $45,000 for a
high-end simulator. This year, Battersby’s team invented a
cricket simulator that it has sold to the English and Australian
national cricket teams.  Battersby’s son, Adam, now 31, did not grow up to play baseball;
he became president of $2.1 million  ProBatter Sports , a six-
employee company in Milford, Conn.  Chief Executive Greg Battersby, 63, spoke recently with
Bloomberg.com contributor Karen E. Klein for this as-told-to
Entrepreneur’s Journal:  We launched our product at the winter baseball trade show in
Anaheim in 1999. It was the hit of the show.  George Brett  came
over and said he would have hit .400 four years in a row if he’d
been able to use our product.  But that show was almost a tragedy. We had signed up to sponsor
the opening-night cocktail reception and roll out the product
there. We shipped the initial unit to Los Angeles, but it was
dropped off a 747 and was in pieces. The cocktail party was
supposed to start at 6 p.m., and at 4:30 our product still
wasn’t working.  LONG-DISTANCE TROUBLE-SHOOTING  One of our engineers came to me with a deer-in-the-headlights
look. He couldn’t fix it. We had a consulting engineer in
Massachusetts who got on the phone and walked him through
installing a new part. I still hold that guy in very high
esteem.  An hour into the reception we dropped the drape on the product
and started throwing pitches. It turned out great, but it gave
us a hell of a scare. We had put $500,000 to $750,000 into beta
testing, endorsements, and product development. My blood
pressure must have been 240 over 80. At this point, I’m thinking
being a lawyer is not so bad.  It’s funny, for 35 years I sat behind my desk and pontificated
about small business without having a clue what I was talking
about. Once you find yourself actually doing it -- worrying
about cash flow and managing inventory -- it’s hard. I never
understood how difficult it was.  As a lawyer, you focus on one or two things. As a business
owner, you’re having a conversation now about engineering, and
30 seconds later you’re talking about marketing, then sales,
then personnel, then tax consequences.  I spend about 50 hours a week in my law practice and 20 to 25 at
ProBatter, mostly focusing on marketing. From my perspective,
the invention of a new product is the easy part. Creating a
market for that product is the challenge.  I initially thought we would get our patent applications in
place, get endorsements, and license to a company like Wilson or
Rawlings. But our initial price point was $90,000, and their
salesmen couldn’t sell a product that expensive. It was
competing with products that sell for $1,500. We now sell for
less, but our cost of goods is high. That’s why cash flow is so
important. We don’t want to overbuild, but if a customer comes
in the door, they don’t want to wait three months for delivery,
either.  STRUGGLE AGAINST TRADITION  It’s not easy to break into an established industry. The players
initially said, “I don’t hit against pitching machines.” Major
league baseball players have gotten where they are because they
have a specific regimen they follow for many years. Pitching
machines are not in that regimen, and they’re reluctant to
change.  Also, a lot of old-fashioned guys in the ranks of coaches don’t
like technology. It took them years to adopt the radar gun at
1/100th the cost of our product, and last I heard there were
pitching coaches still using stop watches.  So we decided to start at the bottom and work up. UConn features
us in their recruiting brochures now. If we can get into the
grass roots at batting cages and training centers, the top
players will be familiar with us by the time they get to the
major leagues.  Our revenue this year will be similar numbers to last year. What
has really hurt us in this recession has been the credit crunch.
About 60 percent to 70 percent of our installations are at
training facilities, and if they can’t get financing, they’re
not buying our equipment.  Our newest product simulates cricket bowling. We entered into an
arrangement where the British national team helped fund the
development of the first unit. We installed a second unit in
Australia last week. Ideally, I’d like to sell four to six
cricket machines around the world every year.  To contact the reporter on this story: Karen E. Klein at
 Karen@KarenEKlein.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Nick Leiber at
 nleiber@bloomberg.net  