-- Airbus Blowout Traced to Rolls-Royce Engine Oil Fire
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2010-11-11T17:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/qantas-airbus-blowout-traced-to-oil-fire-in-rolls-royce-engine-easa-says.html
An engine explosion on an Airbus SAS
A380 operated by Qantas Airways Ltd. was probably caused by an
oil fire in one of the plane’s four  Rolls-Royce Group Plc  Trent
900 turbines, the European Aviation Safety Agency said.  The fire may have caused the disintegration of the engine’s
intermediate pressure turbine disc, according to an emergency
 airworthiness directive  published last night by EASA instructing
operators to check for “abnormal oil leakage” in all Trent
900s.  “This condition, if not detected, could ultimately result
in uncontained engine failure, potentially leading to damage to
the aeroplane and hazards to persons or property on the
ground,” EASA said in the directive. The discovery of any
discrepancy should “prohibit further engine operation,” the
regulator said.  Qantas has grounded its six A380s following the engine
explosion shortly after takeoff from Singapore on Nov. 4, which
forced an emergency landing and damaged the plane’s wing.
Singapore Airlines Ltd. will take three of its 11 superjumbos
out of service to change the turbines after finding “slight”
oil staining and Germany’s Deutsche Lufthansa AG, the only other
Trent 900 user, is replacing power plants on one jet.  Rolls-Royce, which said Nov. 8 that the problem is specific
to the Trent 900 and plans to issue more details tomorrow in a
trading statement,  declined  0.7 percent to close at 584 pence in
London.  ‘Clarity’  “We need absolute clarity on what it is in the engine
that’s gone wrong, what the remedy is and why this component has
failed,” said  Howard Wheeldon , senior strategist at BGC
Partners in London. “Unless they communicate that clarity, then
the markets will not give them the benefit of the doubt.”  Airbus parent European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co.
slipped 0.5 percent to 19.005 euros in Paris.  EASA’s instructions are an “interim action” according to
the directive, as an ongoing investigation is under way.  Sydney-based Qantas, Australia’s largest airline, kept its
A380s grounded for an eighth day as it probes potential oil
leaks found in three engines on three different aircraft.  While nobody was injured in the Qantas incident,  Tim Clark ,
president of Dubai-based Emirates, the biggest A380 operator,
says he’s concerned the superjumbo’s reputation might become
“tarnished,” even though the Gulf carrier’s planes are powered
by engines from General Electric Co. and Pratt & Whitney.  “One thing we will not allow is a contagion effect,”
Clark said in an interview in London yesterday. “We’re
concerned and watching very closely. And if we get lumped
together then we will have to take some kind of action.”  Bookings Hurt  Yan Derocles , an aviation analyst at Paris-based Oddo
Securities, said previous experience indicates that all A380-
operated flights are likely to experience a drop-off in demand.  “Most of the flying public isn’t even aware that there are
two types of engine available on the A380,” he said. “Normally
when you have incidents or accidents there’s an immediate impact
on bookings, but soon after occupancy rates return to normal.”  EASA says A380 operators with Trent 900 engines must carry
out an extended run at idle while on the ground. They should
also inspect blades and the oil case drain in the engines’ low-
pressure turbines and oil-service tubes and so-called air buffer
cavities in the high- and intermediate-pressure structures.  Where an engine is mounted on a plane, the checks must be
made within 10 flight cycles of the directive becoming effective
yesterday, and then again at least every 20 cycles. If an engine
is in a workshop it must be checked before the next flight.  Smaller Hubs  Passengers have so far flocked to the A380, with its
capacity for more than 500 seats and amenities including showers
and closed off first-class cabins. More than 70 airports can
handle the double-decker, with is 239 feet (73 meters) long with
a 262-foot wingspan. Emirates has begun flying it to smaller
hubs, including Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, and Manchester, England.  Airbus, which is aiding the investigation into the Qantas
engine, is confident that London-based Rolls-Royce will “find
and correct the problem,” Chief Executive Officer  Tom Enders 
told reporters in Berlin yesterday.  Production of the A380, designed to tap the lucrative long-
haul market dominated for decades by Boeing Co.’s 747 jumbo, has
been a drag on the planemaker since its maiden flight in 2005.  Mismatched software between German and French engineers led
to faulty wiring, resulting in years of delays and cost
overruns. Airbus also failed to build on an initial flow of
orders, and the program won’t break even for several years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Howard Mustoe  in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net ;
 Steve Rothwell  in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  