-- Queensland's $5 Billion Rail IPO Draws `Robust' Demand, Boosting AAA Bid
-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 2010-11-12T01:30:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/qr-national-s-5-billion-share-offering-draws-robust-demand-fraser-says.html
QR National Ltd. ’s initial share
sale, Australia’s biggest since 1997, will be priced inside the
forecast range because of “robust” demand from international
institutional investors, Queensland Treasurer  Andrew Fraser  said.  “We have seen an upturn in interest in recent days,”
Fraser, 34, said by phone yesterday. “The feedback from the
international roadshow was very robust and I think they will
lead the way for their domestic brothers.”  Queensland plans to raise as much as A$5.05 billion ($5.04
billion) selling stock in what may be the world’s fourth-largest
IPO this year as Chinese and Indian demand for coal boosts
volumes on QR National’s railways. The state also this week sold
Brisbane port as it seeks A$15 billion in asset sales to help
pare bond offerings and regain the highest Standard & Poor’s
credit rating.  “The government is committed to re-securing a AAA credit
rating,” Fraser said. There is “no doubt” the state will pare
bond sales this year and next because of the funds raised from
selling five companies, he said.  QR National will likely rank among the 50 largest companies
in Australia’s benchmark index, which will help lure investors,
said  Elio D’Amato , who oversees about $115 million at fund
manager  Lincoln Indicators  in Melbourne. Still, a price of
between 21 and 25 times forecast earnings is deterring him from
buying stock.  “We don’t feel that at current prices it represents value
as it really is an infrastructure play,” he said. “The
government is doing the right thing” in selling shares now
though, he said.  Share Pricing  Queensland, Australia’s largest coal mining region, plans
to price shares of QR National from A$2.50 to A$3.00. At the top
of the range, the QR National will have a market value of A$7.3
billion. The state will keep as much as 40 percent of the stock,
which it has agreed not to sell until the end of 2012.  Individual investors, who will pay no more than A$2.80 a
share and at least 10 cents less than institutions, have until
today to seek shares. The stock will begin trading on the
Australian Securities Exchange next month.  The sale comes after builder Valemus Ltd. scrapped an
A$1.39 billion IPO in July as investors baulked at the offer
price. Australia’s stock market is also the third-worst
performing major bourse in the Asia-Pacific region this year,
with the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index falling about 3 percent.  Queensland was downgraded to AA+ from AAA at S&P in
February last year. The ratings company cited the state’s
spending program and a “significant decline” in operating
revenue.  Yields Climb  The yield on Queensland Treasury Corp.’s five-year bond
climbed for a second week, rising to 5.54 percent as of 10:30
a.m. in Sydney from 5.46 percent on Nov. 5. The 6 percent bond
due in October 2015 fell 0.127 today, or $1.27 per $1,000 face
amount, to 101.934.  The premium investors demand to hold the bond instead of
similar-dated federal government was at 0.36 percentage point,
narrowing from 0.40 point on Sept. 30.  Queensland this week agreed to sell Port of Brisbane,
Australia’s third-biggest container harbor, to a group led by
 Global Infrastructure Partners  and Abu Dhabi Investment
Authority for A$2.1 billion. In June, it completed the sale of a
99-year lease to forest plantations for A$603 million.  Abbot Point  The state sent out requests for expressions of interest in
the  Abbot Point coal terminal  last week, and is working to
complete the sale of a toll-road company by June, Fraser said.
No further sales are planned once the residual QR stake is sold,
he said.  “We nominated five candidate businesses and that is it.
Full stop,” he said.  Brisbane-based QR National expects earnings to surge 75
percent in the next two years as coal shipments rise and mining
companies expand projects in Western Australia. The company
operates 700 locomotives, 16,000 wagons and 2,300 kilometers
(1,430 miles) of track, according to a share sale  document .  Based on the price range for the stock sale, QR National
stock would trade at 21-25 times estimated earnings per share
for the year ending June 2011, and 17-20 times the following
year’s earnings, according to the  sale document .  Asciano Ltd. , Australia’s biggest publicly traded port and
rail operator, trades at about 19 times estimated earnings for
the 12 months ending June 2011.  Telstra Sale  Completion of the QR National IPO would make it Australia’s
largest since the federal government raised more than A$14
billion selling shares of phone company  Telstra Corp.  in 1997.  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. sold $22.1 billion of
shares in Shanghai and Hong Kong earlier this year in the
world’s biggest IPO on record. Asia-Pacific IPOs have raised
$142.3 billion so far this year, about 65 percent of the global
tally, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  UBS AG, Credit Suisse Group AG, Goldman Sachs & Partners
Australia Pty, Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit and
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc are managing the QR National
offering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Fenner  at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  