-- Rand Strengthens on Bets Manufacturing to Expand, G-20 Agreement Doubts
-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 2010-11-11T07:51:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/rand-strengthens-on-bets-manufacturing-to-expand-g-20-agreement-doubts.html
South Africa’s rand strengthened
before a report that is expected to show manufacturing expanded
for a tenth month and as analysts bet Group of 20 nations will
fail to agree on a way to stem emerging-market currency gains.  The rand snapped a three-day decline, appreciating as much
as 0.7 percent to 6.8626 per dollar before trading 0.6 percent
stronger at 6.8653 by 9:14 a.m. in Johannesburg, from a previous
close of 6.9089.  Manufacturing  in Africa’s biggest economy probably grew 3
percent in September, compared with 5.3 percent the previous
month, according to the  median estimate  in a Bloomberg survey.
Leaders from the G-20, the largest advanced and emerging
economies, are meeting in the South Korean capital of Seoul in
an attempt to resolve differences over domestic policies blamed
for distorting exchange rates, global trade and investment.  “As we believe that South African manufacturing data will
surprise to the upside today, which would bode well for gross
domestic product, the risk lies in extended rand strength,”
 Standard Bank Group Ltd.  analysts led by  Michael Keenan  in
Johannesburg, wrote in a client note. There are “increasing
doubts” about the effectiveness of the outcome of the G-20
summit, the analysts said.  South Africa’s rand has rallied 37 percent against the
dollar since the start of last year, prompting manufacturers and
labor unions to argue for measures to weaken the currency which
they say is hurting export competitiveness. Finance Minister
 Pravin Gordhan  said Nov. 9 that a U.S. decision to boost bond
purchases to pump money into its economy was causing rand
appreciation, which endangered South African manufacturing.  ‘Fruitlessness’  Complaints about the U.S.’s policy, known as quantitative
easing “are an effort in fruitlessness,”  John Cairns , head of
foreign-exchange research at Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg,
wrote in an e-mailed note today. The G-20 “might give a vague
nod to tougher policies from emerging markets facing excessive
volatility in capital flows, but this is pretty meaningless to
the rand since one cares about South Africa’s policy much
anyway.”  Interest rates as low as 0.1 percent in Japan and 0.25
percent in the U.S. have encouraged investors to borrow cheaply
in those countries and invest in markets offering higher
returns. The strategy, known as the carry trade, has caused
surges in emerging-market currencies including the rand and
Brazil’s real.  Government bonds fell in South Africa for a fourth day,
with the benchmark 13.5 percent security due September 2015
sliding 36 cents to 126.01 rand, the steepest decline since Oct.
19. The yield on the bond rose 7 basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 7.05 percent.  Pretoria-based Statistics South Africa is scheduled to
publish manufacturing data at 1 p.m. local time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  