-- Real Weakens for Fifth Day as Mantega Threatens Further Currency Measures
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   A n a   M o n t e i r o
-- 2010-11-11T14:59:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/real-weakens-for-fifth-day-as-mantega-at-g-20-threatens-further-measures.html
Brazil’s currency weakened for a
fifth day against the dollar as Finance Minister  Guido Mantega 
reiterated the government may take further steps to slow its
advance.  The currency of Latin America’s biggest economy depreciated
0.6 percent to 1.7181 as of 9:37 a.m. in New York from a close
of 1.7079 yesterday. The real dropped 2.8 percent in the past
month, the second-biggest retreat after Colombia’s peso among 25
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The currency
more than doubled in value since President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da
Silva took office in January 2003.  Lula tripled a tax on foreigners’ fixed-income purchases
last month to 6 percent to slow a two-year currency rally and
rein in a record current-account gap of $47 billion. The real
has strengthened 35 percent versus the dollar since the start of
2009.  “If it continues, if it persists in this direction, we
will take other measures,” Mantega told reporters in Seoul,
where he was attending the meeting of the Group of 20 nations.
“We are not going to permit the real to revalue against the
dollar to the point that it damages Brazil’s exports.”  The Federal Reserve’s second round of asset purchases to
boost its economy increases the U.S.’s competitiveness, Mantega
said. Leaders may discuss reducing the dollar’s role as a
reserve currency in favor of a basket that could include the
real and yuan, he said.  “The government has been quite successful in kind of
scaring the market or at least credibly showing the market that
an appreciation beyond 1.65 would trigger, quite likely, new
measures,”  Tony Volpon , a Latin America strategist at Nomura
Securities in New York, said in a phone interview.  Euro Slides  The euro slid against the dollar and yen as data showed
Spain’s third-quarter gross domestic product was unchanged from
the previous three months after two quarters of growth,
Ireland’s fiscal crisis drove down bank stocks and France backed
German calls to make investors share the costs of restructuring
sovereign debt.  “Until the G-20 ends, the market will be in waiting mode,
tracking international developments,” said  Huang Kuo Seen , who
helps manage 250 million reais at Grau Gestao de Ativos in Sao
Paulo.  The U.S.’s quantitative-easing program has risks and is
“monetary expansion,” with much of the cash being generated
going to emerging countries, Brazilian central bank President
 Henrique de Campos Meirelles  said at an event in Sao Paulo
yesterday.  Futures Contracts  The yield on the Brazilian interest-rate futures contract
maturing in January 2012, the second-most traded today in Sao
Paulo, climbed for a third day, rising 6 basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 11.58 percent. Yields on the contract due
in January 2017 rose 4 basis points.  “Brazil’s caught up a little bit in the expectation
perhaps that QE will lead to greater inflation in the future,”
said Volpon. “The market now is preventively putting some risk
premium across the curve, so the whole curve has been actually
steepening I think because of this fear that this inflation that
we’re going to get from commodity prices may, at a certain
point, lead the central bank in Brazil into hiking rates.”  To contact the reporters on the story:
 Josue Leonel  in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
 Ana Monteiro  in Johannesburg at 
 amonteiro4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net 
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 