-- South African Banks Have `Ghost of Growth,' Renaissance BJM Says in Report
-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 2010-11-11T11:36:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/renaissance-bjm-initiates-south-african-bank-coverage-standard-a-sell-.html
Renaissance BJM, the South African
brokerage owned by Russia’s Renaissance Capital Ltd., said there
are few prospects for an increase in share prices of the
nation’s four biggest retail banks in the absence of growth.  The company, which is based in Johannesburg, placed
“sell” recommendations on  Standard Bank Group Ltd. , Africa’s
biggest lender, and  Nedbank Group Ltd. , the fourth-largest, in
new coverage by Ilan Stermer the head of banking research.  Absa
Group Ltd. ,  RMB Holdings Ltd.  and  FirstRand Ltd. , South Africa’s
second-largest finance services company, were rated “hold” by
Stermer, who joined Renaissance BJM last month from Investec
Securities, a unit of  Investec Plc .  “Our forecasts indicate little by way of growth in
earnings for calendar year 2010,” Stermer wrote in an e-mailed
report to clients dated today entitled Ghosts of Growth. “Of
more concern, however, is the likelihood of tepid earnings
growth over the next few years. While impairments are headed
downwards, we still see pressure on interest margins, meager
asset growth, and a largely lackluster prognosis for non-
interest revenue.”  South Africa’s banks showed a drop in profitability after
consumers struggled to repay debts in the wake of the global
financial crisis. The Reserve Bank reduced its benchmark
interest rate by half a percentage point to 6 percent on Sept.
9, the  eighth reduction  since December 2008, to spur spending
and helping to ease bad-loan impairments.  Return on Equity  Renaissance BJM forecasts that FirstRand will be the only
company to have a return on equity of 20.6 percent over the next
three years, the highest of all the banks in the report, while
the forecast for Nedbank’s was the lowest at 13.6 percent.
FirstRand concluded its purchase of  Barnard Jacobs Mellet
Holdings Ltd.  in September. Renaissance bought BJM’s securities
business in May.  Stermer assigned a 12-month price estimate of 89.26 rand to
Standard Bank, 13 percent lower than 103.19 rand where it was
trading at 12:16 p.m. in Johannesburg. Nedbank’s price estimate
was set at 123.38 rand compared with a current level of 130.60
rand. Renaissance’s price estimate for FirstRand is 23.10 rand
and 39.69 rand for RMB. Absa’s was set at 139.69 rand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  