-- Repsol Quarterly Profit Climbs on Refining Margins
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2010-11-11T17:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/repsol-third-quarter-profit-climbs-as-refining-margins-improve.html
Repsol YPF SA , Spain’s biggest oil
company, said third-quarter profit rose 70 percent after
refining margins improved and crude prices increased.  Profit  adjusted to exclude inventories and one-time items
climbed to 502 million euros ($689 million) from 296 million
euros a year earlier, the Madrid-based company said today.  Repsol refining margins are improving after demand fell
last year with the global economic slump. The company is
investing in exploration in  Brazil ’s offshore Santos Basin and
elsewhere to increase output, while seeking to reduce exposure
to mature fields in  Argentina .  “The exploration and production unit should continue to be
the driver of the investment case on the back of the extensive
drilling campaign taking place in Brazil,” Banco BPI SA
analysts  Bruno Silva ,  Flora Trindade  and Gonzalo Sanchez-Bordona
said in a research note. They have an “accumulate” rating on
the stock.  Repsol shares added 0.3 percent to 19.80 euros in Madrid.
The oil company’s stock has climbed 5.7 percent this year,
valuing it at 24 billion euros.  Besides exploration, Repsol is also spending to improve
refining margins and new units at its Spanish refineries in
Bilbao and Cartagena will start operating at the end of 2011.
The projects at both those refineries are “on time,” Chief
Operating Officer  Miguel Martinez  said on a conference call.  Refining Margin  The refining margin indicator for Spain, a measurement of
the profit from turning crude into fuels, widened to $1.50 a
barrel in the third quarter from 30 cents a barrel a year
earlier, Repsol said today.  “The greater refining margin was motivated by the widening
of the differentials of light and heavy crudes as well as middle
distillates, and by the recovery of the chemical business,”
Repsol said in a statement.  Repsol forecasts annual production growth of as much as 4
percent through 2014 as projects in Brazil and Peru come
onstream. The company plans to invest 28.5 billion euros in the
period.  China Petrochemical Corp. , China’s second-largest oil and
gas producer, will invest $7.1 billion in  Repsol ’s Brazilian
unit as the Spanish company raises funds to develop offshore
projects. Sinopec Group, as the company is known, will buy new
shares in the Brazilian unit and will hold 40 percent of that
division after the capital increase, Repsol said Oct. 1.  Santos Basin  Repsol has stakes in blocks in Brazil’s Santos, Campos and
Espirito Santo basins and has said it will invest as much as $5
billion there from 2010 through 2014, and as much as $9 billion
from 2015 through 2019.  Since 2007, Repsol and partners  BG Group Plc  and  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA  have found hydrocarbons in the offshore Carioca,
Guara and Iguacu fields in the Santos Basin’s BM-S-9 block,
ultra-deep deposits beneath a salt layer under the seabed.  Petrobras, as Brazil’s state-controlled oil company is
known, estimated in November 2007 that the Santos Basin’s pre-
salt Tupi field may have as many as 8 billion barrels of oil,
the largest find in the Americas since Mexico’s Cantarell field
in 1976. Repsol doesn’t own a stake in Tupi.  Perla Reserves  In Venezuela, the Perla field may have a minimum of 15
trillion cubic feet of natural-gas reserves in place and 10
trillion cubic feet of recoverable reserves, Repsol’s Martinez
said. Repsol and Italy’s Eni SpA own stakes in the venture
that’s developing that discovery.  In the Gulf of Mexico, Repsol is a partner in the Shenzi
field and Martinez said the company expects to start the
appraisal well at the Buckskin project in March.  Oil and gas production at Repsol’s upstream division, which
doesn’t include Argentine unit YPF, rose 5.8 percent from a year
earlier to 346,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day in the third
quarter. Output from Buenos Aires-based YPF, of which Repsol
owns 84 percent, fell 2.7 percent to 551,000 barrels a day as
mature fields declined.  The Spanish company wants to sell part of its holding in
YPF “sooner rather than later,” Repsol Chief Executive Officer
 Antonio Brufau  said on April 29. The shares may be sold to
institutions or in the stock market and Repsol will keep at
least 51 percent of YPF, he said. In 2008 Repsol delayed a
public offering of a stake in YPF.  Martinez said the company still plans to reduce its holding
in the YPF unit.  Repsol  may raise about $3 billion from the sale of a 20
percent stake in YPF through a stock offering in Buenos Aires
and New York, Argentine investor  Sebastian Eskenazi  said May 19.
Eskenazi, whose family bought 15 percent of YPF from Repsol for
$2.2 billion in December 2007, expects to exercise an option to
boost the stake to 25 percent by 2012 this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joao Lima  in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  