-- Resolution May Forgo Big Acquisitions, Stock a `Concern,' CEO Tiner Says
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2010-11-11T10:06:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/resolution-may-forgo-big-acquisitions-stock-a-concern-ceo-tiner-says.html
Resolution Ltd. , the insurance
buyout firm founded by  Clive Cowdery , may pull back from making
large acquisitions, as a slump in its shares is “a cause for
concern,” Chief Executive Officer  John Tiner  said.  The firm’s purchase of Bupa’s insurance unit “illustrates
the multiple routes available to Resolution to achieve its
goal,” Tiner said today on a conference call, as the company
announced a 23 percent gain in quarterly revenue. “These options
could include further scale transactions or a series of smaller
bolt-on acquisitions or a combination of the two.”  Resolution last month agreed to buy Bupa Health Assurance
Ltd. for 102 million pounds ($165 million), its third and
smallest acquisition to date. The company, founded in 2008 to
acquire and merge British life insurers, previously paid 1.9
billion pounds for Friends Provident and 2.75 billion pounds for
Axa SA’s U.K. life-insurance operations.  Resolution has declined 42 percent since the firm’s
December 2008 initial public offering. The stock, the worst
performer in the  FTSE ASX Life Insurance Index  this year,
dropped 1.5 pence, or 0.6 percent, to 245 pence at 9:30 a.m.
in London trading.  “It’s a cause of concern because we worry about our
shareholders,” Tiner said. “We’re not always viewed as a
peer in the insurance group because of the acquisition nature
of our strategy.”  Tiner said in March that Resolution planned to build a firm
with about 10 billion pounds of embedded value, a measure of
future profits from existing policyholders. The company’s
current embedded value is about 6 billion pounds. That will
increase by a further 200 million pounds once the Bupa purchase
is completed, according to company filings.  Resolution’s Targets  “We have put 10 billion EV out there as something we
thought would be the kind of area where we would get the scale
necessary to be able to trim our costs and increase our
margins,” Tiner said. “Ten has never been a holy grail.”  Resolution’s main target is achieving a “mid-teens” rate
of return for shareholders over the course of the U.K. life-
insurance project, which it aims to complete by selling the firm
by 2013, said Tiner, who served as CEO of the U.K.’s Financial
Services Authority from 2003 to 2007. “Notwithstanding where
our share price is today, we remain extremely confident of
delivering on this project.”  Third-quarter revenue at the Friends Provident division was
225 million pounds, compared with 183 million pounds a year
earlier, the Guernsey, Channel Islands-based company said today
in a statement. Sales at Lombard, Friends Provident’s wealth-
management unit, climbed 176 percent to 78.2 million pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kevin Crowley  in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 