-- Tribune, Madoff Trustee, Innkeepers, WaMu, Chemtura, Ambac: Bankruptcy
-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2010-11-11T13:28:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/tribune-madoff-innkeepers-wamu-chemtura-ambac-bankruptcy.html
Adding to hundreds of pages of
disclosure materials, creditors of publisher  Tribune Co.  will
receive letters from the proponents of three plans competing
with the company’s own reorganization proposal.  The letters range between nine and 17 pages. They purport
to explain why every other plan is defective and deserves
rejection. The letter from  Mark D. Brodsky , chairman of Aurelius
Capital Management LP, said his letter was “my personal appeal
to your common sense and your sense of decency.” He said the
bankrupt company’s plan would “hold Tribune hostage in
bankruptcy to extort an unfair settlement.”  Tribune bent to objections from the creditors’ committee
and the U.S. Trustee by deleting five top executives from the
list of managers to participate in the publisher’s bonus
program.  The executives are defending a lawsuit contending that
Tribune’s leveraged buyout in 2007 was structured to include
fraudulent transfers that ended up pushing the company into
bankruptcy.  The bankruptcy judge at a hearing yesterday said Tribune
made a wise decision because he would have denied the motion
otherwise. To read Bloomberg coverage, click here.  The judge nonetheless approved potential bonuses for 630
executives and managers that could cost more than $40 million.  Four plans are competing to reorganize Tribune. For a
discussion of the three plans filed by creditors, click here for
the Nov. 1 Bloomberg bankruptcy report. For details on Tribune’s
own plan filed, click here for the Oct. 25 Bloomberg bankruptcy
report.  Tribune withdrew a prior version of a reorganization in
August in the wake of the examiner’s report finding a likelihood
the second phase of the leveraged buyout in December 2007 could
be attacked successfully as a constructively fraudulent
transfer. The examiner found less likelihood that the first
phase of the transaction in June 2007 could be attacked
successfully.  The second part of the buyout entailed the issuance of $2.1
billion on the senior credit and a $1.6 billion bridge loan. For
a summary of some of the examiner’s conclusions, click here for
the July 27 Bloomberg bankruptcy report. Tribune’s abandoned
plan would have forced through a settlement some creditors
opposed.  The $13.7 billion leveraged buyout in 2007 was led by  Sam Zell .  Tribune is the second-largest newspaper publisher in the
U.S. It listed $13 billion in debt for borrowed money and assets
of $7.6 billion in the Chapter 11 reorganization begun in
December 2008. It owns the Chicago Tribune, Los Angeles Times,
six other newspapers and 23 television stations.  The case is In re Tribune Co., 08-13141, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Updates  Madoff Trustee Gets $1 Billion Default Judgment Against Fund  The trustee liquidating Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities Inc. won a $1.073 billion default judgment yesterday
against a so-called feeder fund named Harley International
(Cayman) Ltd.  The Harley fund, in liquidation in the Cayman Islands, was
sued for more than $1 billion by the Madoff trustee on account
of payments received within two years of bankruptcy. The
liquidators for the Harley fund didn’t respond to the complaint
or to the Madoff trustee’s motion for summary judgment.  It remains to be seen whether the Madoff trustee can
collect on the judgment in the Cayman Islands or elsewhere in
the world where the Harley fund may have assets. Were the
situation reversed, the U.S. would say that a judgment abroad
against a company under bankruptcy protection in the U.S. would
be barred by the so-called automatic stay.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Burton R. Lifland granted judgment
for $1.07 billion received within two years of the Madoff
bankruptcy. Because the Madoff firm was a Ponzi scheme, the
transfers to the Harley fund were fraudulent transfers.  The Madoff trustee also received a $425 million preference
judgment to recover payments the Harley fund received within 90
days of the Madoff bankruptcy. A preference is a payment
received on account of outstanding debt within three months of
bankruptcy. For other Bloomberg coverage, click here.  The Madoff firm began liquidating in December 2008 with the
appointment of a trustee under the Securities Investor
Protection Act.  Bernard Madoff  individually went into an
involuntary Chapter 7 liquidation in April 2009. His bankruptcy
case was consolidated with the firm’s liquidation. Madoff
pleaded guilty and is serving a 150-year prison sentence.  The Madoff liquidation case is Securities Investor
Protection Corp. v. Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities
Inc., 08-01789, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan). The criminal case is U.S. v. Madoff, 09-
cr-00213, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Innkeepers Gets 75-Day Exclusivity Extension, Second Law Firm  Innkeepers USA Trust  reached a compromise with creditors
over an extension of the exclusive right of the real estate
investment trust to propose a Chapter 11 plan.  Innkeepers wanted 120 more days. After more than an hour of
discussions with the judge and contending parties, Innkeepers
reached agreement on a 75-day extension of its exclusivity
period.  Midland Loan Services Inc., as servicer for $825 million in
mortgage debt on 45 of Innkeepers’ properties, opposed the
exclusivity extension. Midland had a motion seeking to terminate
exclusivity so it could file its own plan.  On a modified basis, Innkeepers was given approval to hire
the law firm  Fried Frank Harris Shriver & Jacobson LLP  to advise
a newly formed special committee to make recommendations to the
board of directors about a Chapter 11 plan. Originally,
Innkeepers wanted permission to pay Fried Frank without court
supervision. As it turned out ultimately, Fried Frank was hired,
though its fees must be approved by the bankruptcy judge.  The retention of Fried Frank was opposed by Midland and by
Lehman Ali Inc., a subsidiary of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. 
that is the holder of $238 million in floating-rate mortgages on
20 properties.  In August, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Shelley C. Chapman  refused
to allow Innkeepers to lock in an agreement in which the new
equity would have been split between Lehman and  Apollo
Investment Corp. , the current owner.  Palm Beach, Florida-based Innkeepers has 72 extended-stay
and limited-service properties with 10,000 rooms in 20 states.
For details on Innkeepers’ rejected plan and Midland’s proposal
for a competing plan, click here for the Aug. 31 Bloomberg
bankruptcy report.  Apollo acquired the company in July 2007 in a $1.35 billion
transaction. The Innkeepers petition listed assets of $1.5
billion and debt of $1.52 billion.  The case is In re Innkeepers USA Trust, 10-13800, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New York (Manhattan).  Orleans Has $155 Million Exit Financing Commitment  Homebuilder  Orleans Homebuilders Inc. , whose reorganization
plan is scheduled for approval at a Nov. 24 confirmation
hearing, has a commitment for $155 million to finance an exit
from Chapter 11.  JPMorgan Chase Bank NA  is administrative agent for lenders
willing to provide a $30 million revolving credit and a $125
million term loan. There will be a Nov. 16 hearing where Orleans
will ask the bankruptcy judge to approve the commitment letter
and the payment of associated fees.  For a summary of the Orleans plan, click here for the Nov.
8 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  Bensalem, Pennsylvania-based Orleans builds homes and
condominiums in seven states. The Chapter 11 filing in March
followed maturity of the revolving credit the prior month.
Approximately $325 million was owing to the banks at maturity,
not including $15 million on letters of credit. The March 31
balance sheet listed assets of $591 million against total
liabilities of $560 million.  The case is In re Orleans Homebuilders Inc., 10-10684, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Daufuskie Island Lenders Take Most Property in Swap  Daufuskie Island Resort & Breathe Spa on Hilton Head
Island, South Carolina, attracted no qualified cash bidders at
the Oct. 21 auction for the entire business. When the auction
resumed, the only offers came in the form of credit bids from
secured lenders who offered to exchange their debt for ownership
of most of the assets.  The bankruptcy judge signed an order on Nov. 8 approving
the sale of most of the assets to secured lenders AGF LLC and
Bank of North Carolina. The bankrupt company retains the Bloody
Point golf course and Melrose Landing, which are earmarked to
pay priority and unsecured creditors.  An earlier, planned sale of the entire business wasn’t
completed. The owner, Daufuskie Island Properties LLC, was
authorized in January to sell the project for $49.5 million to
Montauk Resorts LLC. The buyer was unable to complete the
acquisition.  The Chapter 11 case was filed in January 2009 in
Charleston, South Carolina. A Chapter 11 trustee was appointed
later. The petition listed assets of $97.1 million and debt of
$88.2 million. Debt includes $71.6 million owed to secured
creditors. The real estate was listed as having a value of $87.7
million.  The case is In re Daufuskie Island Properties LLC,
09-00389, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of South Carolina
(Charleston).  Gulfstream Airlines Has $1.7 Million Interim Loan  Gulfstream International Group Inc. , the parent of
Gulfstream International Airlines Inc., received approval from
the bankruptcy judge yesterday for an $1.7 million interim loan
from Chicago-based Victory Park Capital Advisors LLC.  At the final financing hearing on Dec. 1, Gulfstream will
be aiming for $5 million in borrowing ability.  Gulfstream filed for Chapter 11 reorganization on Nov. 4 in
Fort Lauderdale, Florida.  Fort Lauderdale-based Gulfstream had assets of $13.6
million and $26 million in total liabilities on the June 30
balance sheet. Revenue of $46.3 million for the first half of
2010 resulted in a $1.6 million operating loss and a $2.8
million net loss. Revenue in 2009 was $87.3 million.  Gulfstream has 23 turboprop aircraft seating 19 passengers
each. The company has more than 150 daily flights from Florida,
the Bahamas and Ohio. Gulfstream operates under code-sharing
arrangements with Continental Airlines Inc., UAL Corp.’s United
Airlines and Copa Airlines.  The case is In re Gulfstream International Group Inc.,
10-44131, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District Florida (Fort
Lauderdale).  Watch List  Cravath Swaine Moore to Represent Harrisburg Pro Bono  Harrisburg, the capital city of Pennsylvania that’s facing
bankruptcy, is receiving legal advice free of charge from
Cravath Swine & Moore LLP, a major New York corporate law firm
that ordinarily doesn’t represent bankrupts.  Cravath will advise the city on out-of-court workouts and
on a filing for a municipal reorganization under Chapter 9. For
Bloomberg coverage, click here.  Harrisburg guaranteed $282 million in bonds sold to finance
an incinerator that converts trash to energy.  The bonds are insured by  Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp.   Factory Home Builder Palm Harbor May Need Chapter 11  Homebuilder  Palm Harbor Homes Inc.  said in a regulatory
filing on Nov. 9 that it’s in default on secured financing from
Textron Financial Corp. and is exploring alternatives, including
a Chapter 11 filing.  Addison, Texas-based Palm Harbor, a producer of factory-
built homes, said it’s in discussions with potential lenders
“in an effort to restructure its balance sheet.” The company
won’t be filing the quarterly financial statement on time.  For the June 25 quarter, the net loss was $5.7 million on
net sales of $84.3 million. The net loss in the same quarter
last year was $10 million. The June 25 balance sheet had assets
of $335 million and total liabilities of $291 million.  IStar in Talks on Swap and Refinancing  IStar Financial Inc. , a property finance company, is in
discussions with creditors about an exchange and new financing
to avoid a Chapter 11 filing next year, according to three
people with direct knowledge of the matter.  Franklin Resources Inc. , IStar’s largest  bondholder , leads
one group talking about financing. Other potential lenders
include Centerbridge Capital Partners LLC and the existing bank
lenders. For Bloomberg coverage, click here.  IStar, a real estate investment trust, is faced with $3.0
billion of  debt  maturing in 2011 and $3.5 billion in 2012,
Standard & Poor’s said. IStar had an investment grade rating
from S&P until October 2008.  IStar listed assets of $10.46 billion and total liabilities
of $8.7 billion on the Sept. 30 balance sheet. Revenue for the
September quarter was $134.4 million, resulting in a net loss of
$74.6 million.  The provision for loan losses was $78.4 million in
September, compared with $346 million the year before.  The stock closed yesterday at $5.19, down 5 cents a share
in New York Stock Exchange trading. The three-year high was
$35.75 on Dec. 10, 2007. The low in the last three years was 76
cents on Feb. 20, 2009.  Briefly Noted  Washington Mutual Plan Voting Deadline Is Extended to Nov. 18  Creditors of  Washington Mutual Inc.  have three more days to
vote on the reorganization plan. The bank holding company
exercised flexibility given by the judge and extended the voting
deadline from Nov. 15 to Nov. 18.  The bankruptcy judge approved WaMu’s disclosure statement
on Oct. 21. The confirmation hearing for approval of the plan is
set for Dec. 1 through Dec. 3.  The examiner for WaMu concluded in his Nov. 1 report that a
proposed settlement with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “reasonably resolves contentious issues.”  For a summary of changes WaMu made to its plan in October,
click here for the Oct. 7 Bloomberg bankruptcy report. WaMu’s
revised plan will distribute more than $7 billion to creditors.
To read about the settlement before it was modified, click here
for the May 24 Bloomberg bankruptcy report. Click here to read
the May 18 Bloomberg bankruptcy report for a summary of WaMu’s
plan.  The WaMu holding company filed under Chapter 11 in
September 2008, one day after the bank subsidiary was taken
over. The bank, which had been the sixth-largest depository and
credit-card issuer in the U.S., was the largest bank failure in
the country’s history. The holding company filed formal lists of
assets and debt showing property with a total value of $4.49
billion against liabilities of $7.83 billion.  The holding company Chapter 11 case is In re Washington
Mutual Inc., 08-12229, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of
Delaware (Wilmington).  Chemtura Emerges from Chapter 11 under Confirmed Plan  Specialty chemical maker  Chemtura Corp.  on Nov. 8
implemented the Chapter 11 plan confirmed by the bankruptcy
judge on Nov. 3.  Chemtura’s plan reduces debt for borrowed money to about
$750 million from $1.3 billion. For details on the plan, click
here for the June 18 Bloomberg bankruptcy report. To read about
the 78-page opinion by the bankruptcy judge explaining why the
plan deserved confirmation, click here for the Oct. 22 Bloomberg
bankruptcy report. For other Bloomberg coverage, click here.  The new stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange
under the symbol CHMT.  The Chapter 11 petition in March 2009 by Middlebury,
Connecticut-based Chemtura listed assets of $3.06 billion and
debt of $2.6 billion, including $1.02 billion owed on three
issues of notes and debentures. Sales declined from of $3.5
billion in 2008 to $2.5 billion last year. The subsidiaries
outside of the U.S. didn’t file.  The case is Chemtura Corp., 09-11233, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Jeweler Shane Co. Confirms Full Payment Plan over Time  Shane Co. , a jewelry retailer based in Centennial,
Colorado, secured approval of the reorganization plan at
yesterday’s confirmation hearing. The plan pays secured and
unsecured creditors in full, over time.  For details on the plan, click here for the Sept. 30
Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  Shane had 23 jewelry stores on filing under Chapter 11 in
January 2009 and was operating 20 when the plan was filed.  The company filed formal lists showing assets for $130
million and debt totaling $103 million, including $31.4 million
owing on secured claims.  The case is Shane Co., 09-10367, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
District of Colorado (Denver).  Daily Podcast  Ambac, Toll Road Settlement, Point Blank Plan, Taxes: Audio  Potholes in the road to confirmation for  Ambac Financial
Group Inc. , a possible settlement in the  Connector 2000
Association Inc.  Chapter 9 municipal reorganization, an equity
plan to rival the sale of body armor maker  Point Blank Solutions
Inc. , and the use of U.S. courts to collect foreign taxes are
topics in the bankruptcy podcast on the Bloomberg terminal and
Bloomberglaw.com. To listen, click here.  Advance Sheets  Pro Se Litigant Not Paid for Defeating Tax Interest  An individual who acts as his own lawyer and beats back a
claim by the Internal Revenue Service for interest on taxes
doesn’t qualify to be paid for his services as a lawyer, the
U.S. Court of Appeals in Manhattan ruled on Nov. 10.  The case involved a lawyer who filed bankruptcy. He
objected to a claim by the IRS for interest on a tax claim. In
addition to throwing out the interest claim, the bankruptcy
judge awarded attorneys’ fees to the bankrupt, the lawyer, who
was representing himself. On appeal, a district judge reversed
the grant of attorney’s fees.  The appeals court was confronted with interpreting Section
7430 of the IRS Code which awards attorneys’ fees to a taxpayer
who beats the IRS on a claim for interest on taxes. The appeals
court said it hadn’t previously addressed the issue of whether a
so-called pro se litigant can be reimbursed for the value of his
services as a lawyer.  In cases involving the Freedom of Information Act and the
Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, the appeals court
hadn’t allowed attorneys’ fees to lawyers who represent
themselves. The appellate court saw no reason for a different
result under the IRS Code. The appeals court similarly saw no
reason to depart from how sister circuit courts ruled on the
issue.  The appeals court said the result was commanded by the
plain language of the IRS Code.  The opinion was written by Chief Circuit Judge  Dennis Jacobs .  The case is U.S.A. v. Hudson, 09-3600, Second U.S. Circuit
Court of Appeals (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Rochelle  in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 