-- Trico Sues Its Bankruptcy Lender, Seeks Court Order to Help Sale of Ships
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2010-11-11T16:22:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/trico-sues-its-bankruptcy-lender-seeks-court-order-to-help-sale-of-ships.html
Trico Marine Services Inc.  asked a
judge to prevent the lender funding its bankruptcy case from
interfering in a sale of ships that could generate enough money
to pay off the loan.  Trico, a supplier of rented ships to oil and natural-gas
drillers, sued lender Tennenbaum Opportunities Partners V LP,
Obsidian Agency Services Inc., the loan agent, and two other
lenders involved in the $35 million loan.  Without an injunction, Tennenbaum may try to interfere in
the sale of 10 ships by invoking its rights under the loan
agreement, Trico said in the complaint, filed yesterday in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware.  Tennenbaum and the other lenders “have refused to reach a
reasonable agreement with the debtors and insist on exercising
remedies under the DIP financing agreement,” Trico said in its
complaint.  Trico, based in Woodlands, Texas, is in bankruptcy for the
second time in five years. The company signed a loan agreement
with Tennenbaum Capital Partners LLC earlier this year that
required it to file for Chapter 11 no later than Sept. 8.  Since filing for bankruptcy in August, Trico, Tennenbaum
and a committee of unsecured creditors have fought over the
details of a final loan agreement to fund the reorganization.  Tennenbaum attorney Robert Klyman didn’t immediately return
a call seeking comment.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Brendan Linehan Shannon  yesterday
gave Trico temporary permission to use cash set aside as
collateral for Tennenbaum. The two sides will return to court
Nov. 29 when Trico will seek permanent authority to use the
cash.  Through a series of proposed sales, Trico said it expects
to raise about $33 million, more than enough to pay off the $3.5
million it has spent from the Tennenbaum loan.  The bankruptcy case is In re Trico Marine Services,
10-12653. The lawsuit is Trico Marine Services v Obsidian Agency
Services Inc. Both are in U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of
Delaware (Wilmington.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Church  in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 