-- RIM Taps Teens' Messaging Mania to Top Apple in Latin America
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n   a n d   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2010-11-11T21:11:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/rim-taps-teens-messaging-mania-to-top-apple-in-latin-america.html
The iPhone was an also-ran for
Monica Amilpas when she chose her first smartphone last year.
She opted for the BlackBerry Curve because it had an instant-
messaging feature the Apple Inc. device lacked.  “BlackBerry Messenger has helped me a lot because the
little messages are free,” said Amilpas, 31, who works at a
consulting firm in Mexico City and stays in touch with clients,
colleagues and family through BBM, as it’s known. “Before I had
to use text messages, but this doesn’t cost anything.”  The messaging feature and lower-cost phones have boosted
the popularity of  Research In Motion Ltd. ’s BlackBerry in the
developing world, making it the top smartphone brand in Latin
America this year, researcher IDC says. RIM is relying on
emerging markets for revenue growth as competition from Apple
and  Google Inc. ’s Android cut into its U.S. and European sales.  While the iPhone  has won market share  in the U.S., its
price tag of about $700 puts it out of reach for people in
Mexico, Brazil, India and Indonesia, where most users prepay for
mobile service because they lack the credit to qualify for
contracts that offer subsidized phones.  At an America Movil SAB store in Mexico City, the Curve
costs 3,339 pesos ($273) without a contract, compared with 9,359
pesos for the iPhone 4. Eighty-six percent of  America Movil ’s
clients prepay for service, according to the carrier, Latin
America’s largest.  Besides luring consumers with lower pricing, RIM has won
over wireless-service providers who like the BlackBerry’s data
compression, says  Kevin Restivo , an analyst at IDC in Toronto.  “What RIM has done really well is create a device for all
users,” he said. “RIM has some very distinct advantages that
people tend to overlook, advantages that attract carriers.”  Lower Phone Bills  RIM ran an international advertising campaign this year
that featured tag lines like “Conversations come naturally on
BBM,” touting the service as a way to stay in touch more
cheaply than calling and more quickly than texting.  The company, based in Waterloo, Ontario, announced plans in
March to start manufacturing the entry-level Curve in Brazil to
eliminate import tariffs that can be as much as 30 percent. The
Curve already costs about $340 less than the iPhone over the
life of a two-year contract in Brazil, according to Morgan
Keegan & Co., a significant saving in a country where the
average monthly wage is about $900.  Teenager Messaging  While RIM’s entry-level Curve lacks the touch screen and
movement sensors that have helped sales of the iPhone, those
features have been incorporated into the Torch, introduced in
August. The Torch, though, sells for 9,759 pesos in Mexico City,
even more than the iPhone 4.  For now, customers like Amilpas are buying the Curve
because it provides a cheaper, faster way to communicate, which
she says is more important than playing games or Web surfing.  RIM surpassed Nokia Oyj in Latin America in the first
quarter to become the region’s top smartphone maker and had 39
percent of the market last quarter, according to research firm
Canalys in Reading, England. Apple wasn’t among the top four.  Rick Costanzo, RIM’s regional managing director for Latin
America, says the BBM service has unique features that have
played a big role in  RIM ’s success.  “A 15-year-old boy who likes a 15-year-old girl, sends her
a BBM and he’s able to measure how important he is to her based
on the speed of response after the letter turns to an R,”
meaning it’s been read, he says. “No one else runs an end-to-
end service plan like we do. That’s killer and is why it’s
almost a social phenomenon.”  Status Symbol  In Venezuela, BBM and the BlackBerry enjoy a status similar
to the iPhone’s in the U.S. The device even earned an
endorsement from President  Hugo Chavez , who on national TV
called his BlackBerry and Twitter account “my secret weapon.”  “BBM has really hit the mark there and the BlackBerry is
almost like a club there, where status is about communicating by
BBM,” said IDC’s Restivo.  BBM is also popular in socially conservative Saudi Arabia
where its speed -- messages are typically sent in less than two
seconds, according to Morgan Keegan -- has made it a way for
teenagers to communicate in a country where religious police bar
unmarried couples from meeting in public. The growing use of
BlackBerrys by young Saudis has been criticized by supporters of
the country’s traditional Islamic rules, who this year welcomed
a threatened ban on RIM’s messaging service in the country.  In the Asia-Pacific region, excluding Japan and South
Korea, RIM’s smartphone market share expanded in the third
quarter to 6.2 percent from 3.8 percent a year earlier, while
second-place Apple remained at 9.6 percent and leader Nokia fell
to 64 percent from 73 percent, according to Canalys.  Replacing Calls  RIM  shares  rose 63 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $59.07 at 4
p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market, cutting their
losses this year to 13 percent. Apple has risen 50 percent, and
Nokia has declined 14 percent in Helsinki trading.  In many emerging markets, which have high mobile calling
costs, BBM’s speed has turned the service into a substitute for
phone conversations, says Morgan Keegan’s  Tavis McCourt , who
published the study on the BlackBerry’s data cost savings.  “Your average person in Brazil is paying 40 cents a minute
for voice -- prepaid or postpaid. It’s not like in the U.S.,”
says the Nashville, Tennessee-based analyst, who rates RIM
shares “outperform.” “It wouldn’t be as successful as it was
if people weren’t replacing voice minutes with it.”  ‘Sticky’ Services  BBM also helps RIM sell phones because it can’t be used on
other devices, said  Chris Jones , a Canalys analyst. That’s
important to sustaining growth in emerging markets when RIM is
losing market share in the U.S., he says. RIM’s sales outside
the U.S. climbed 94 percent last quarter from a year earlier,
while U.S. revenue slipped 2.9 percent.  “BBM for BlackBerry is a major opportunity to create
sticky devices and sticky services,” Jones said, referring to
the company’s ability to hang on to its customers.  The stickiness will be tested as awareness of the iPhone
and Android devices increase in emerging markets. Amilpas, for
one, says her love of BBM means she’ll stay loyal to BlackBerry
for her next smartphone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hugo Miller  in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
 Crayton Harrison  in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  