-- Rock US Holdings Wins Court Approval to Sell Unit's Manhattan Real Estate
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2010-11-11T19:54:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/rock-us-holdings-wins-court-approval-to-sell-unit-s-manhattan-real-estate.html
Rock US Holdings Inc. won bankruptcy
court approval to sell one of its commercial buildings in
Manhattan and will seek permission to sell the other property
tomorrow.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Peter J. Walsh  gave Rock US Holdings
permission to sell the pre-war condominium building located at
100-104 Fifth Ave. for $93.5 million. The sale was approved as
part of a restructuring plan for its Rock New York (100-104
Fifth Avenue) LLC unit, according to court papers filed Nov. 9.  Rock US Holdings, based in New York, sought bankruptcy with
a prepackaged reorganization plan for itself and its three
affiliates. Rock Joint Ventures Ltd., the direct or indirect
parent of Rock US Holdings and its affiliates, is currently
under administration in the U.K.  The plan was confirmed only for the Rock New York (100-104
Fifth Avenue) LLC unit so the sale of the building could be
completed. Rock US Holdings is considering proposals for its
remaining building. The company will seek approval of that sale
and the plan for itself and its two other units at a hearing
scheduled for tomorrow in Wilmington, Delaware.  Rock US Holdings accepted a $76.25 million offer from EO
MAD 183 LLC for its office building at 183 Madison Ave., court
papers show. The company is giving the original bidder, Rigby
183 LLC, which offered about $1 million less, a chance to top
the EO MAD proposal.  EO MAD is a company formed by Emmes Asset Management Co.
and two former employees of Rock US Holdings, Scott Pudalov and
Alan Wildes. In addition, Pudalov and Wildes will end a lawsuit
against Rock US Holdings and the U.K. administrators.  Under the plan, all sale proceeds will go to  Bank of
Scotland Plc , the agent for secured lender owed about
$267 million, according to court documents.  The case is In re Rock US Holdings Inc., 10-12892, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Bathon  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 