-- Rousseff Says Weak Dollar Can Lead Nations to Concealed Protectionism
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2010-11-11T06:39:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/rousseff-says-weak-dollar-can-lead-nations-to-concealed-protectionism.html
The U.S. is pursuing a weak dollar
policy that could lead countries to engage in concealed forms of
protectionism to mitigate its effects, Brazil’s President-Elect
 Dilma Rousseff  said in Seoul today.  “The weak-dollar policy means that the costs of the
American adjustment are being borne by other economies,”
Rousseff told reporters in Seoul. “It isn’t camouflaged
protectionism, but it causes camouflaged protectionism.”  The Group of 20 may discuss reducing the dollar’s role as a
reserve currency in favor of a basket of currencies, Rousseff
said, echoing comments made by Brazil’s Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  yesterday. G-20 countries have so far failed to narrow
differences on exchange rates or on the need for any commitment
to avoid sustained imbalances in trade and investment flows, G-
20 committee spokesman Kim Yoon Kyung said today.  The Brazilian real has more than doubled in value since
President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  took office in January 2003,
with investors lured by the highest interest rates in the G-20
after inflation.  Brazil last month tripled a tax foreigners must pay to
invest in the country’s debt to limit inflows of capital that
helped drive the currency to a two-year high on Oct. 13. The
government also levied a 6 percent tax on foreigners entering
the Brazilian derivatives market.  Interest Rate  The real weakened 0.4 percent to 1.7079 against the dollar
on Nov. 10. In the overnight interest-rate futures market, the
yield on the contract due in January 2012 rose two basis points,
or 0.02 percentage point, to 11.52 percent.  The central bank kept its benchmark interest rate unchanged
at 10.75 percent in its two past meetings, after raising it 2
percentage points earlier in the year. Consumer prices rose 5.20
percent in the year through October.  Rousseff also said she spoke with South Korea’s transport
minister yesterday about that nation’s possible participation in
Brazilian infrastructure projects, including airports, highways
and a high-speed train linking the cities of Rio de Janeiro, Sao
Paulo and Campinas.  -- Editors:  Ben Richardson ,  Sunil Jagtiani   To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Bristow  in Seoul at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ; 