-- Rules for Hedge-Fund, Private-Equity Managers Ratified by EU Regulators
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2010-11-11T12:12:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/rules-for-hedge-fund-private-equity-managers-ratified-by-eu-regulators.html
Hedge-fund and private-equity
regulations that restrict bonuses and require increased
disclosure at the firms were approved today by European Union
lawmakers in Brussels.  The  European Parliament  voted 513 to 92 in favor of the
rules after negotiators representing the parliament and 27
member states reached a preliminary deal last month.  Finance ministers from the EU agreed on a compromise at a
meeting in Luxembourg in October to give the European Securities
and Markets Authority powers over a so-called passport system
for non-EU hedge-fund managers. The Brussels-based  European
Commission  had proposed the rules last year.  The measures aimed at non-EU fund managers “will impact
materially on private-equity funds,”  Alan Greenough , private
equity lawyer at Hogan Lovells International LLP, said in an e-
mail, “since cross-border investment in such funds has been
commonplace for many years.”  The passport would give managers access to investors across
the EU with a single registration, in return for complying with
transparency rules.  The rules stop short of preventing hedge funds based
outside the EU without a passport from taking EU investors’
money.  As part of the law, private-equity managers will also face
tougher rules on asset stripping, with limits placed on the
selling of assets immediately after a corporate takeover.  Private investors will also be required to provide
information on their strategic plans to employees of companies
they control.  Details Remain  “Much of the detail still remains to be thrashed out” in
talks between ESMA and the commission, Greenough said. “It is
this further detail that will ultimately determine the depth of
impact on the industry.”  Disagreements between Britain and France on the treatment
of non-EU fund managers led to the cancellation of parliament
votes earlier in the year.  Britain is home to about 80 percent of Europe’s hedge-fund
management industry and 60 percent of private-equity firms,
according to a report last year from the U.K.’s Financial
Services Authority.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Moshinsky  in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  