-- Rupee Praised by Geithner Poised for Asia's Best Performance: India Credit
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L u i   a n d   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2010-11-11T18:30:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/rupee-praised-by-geithner-poised-for-asia-s-best-performance-india-credit.html
The rupee will be Asia’s best-
performing currency as U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  praised India for setting an example to the developing
world by shunning capital controls, strategists forecast.  India’s rupee will return 12 percent including interest
income by the end of 2011, beating the 10.9 percent gain for the
Indonesian rupiah, according to the median estimate of 17
analysts in a Bloomberg News survey. UBS AG predicted the spot
rate will appreciate almost 17 percent versus the dollar, while
Morgan Stanley expects government bonds will rally.  While Brazil, South Korea, Thailand and Indonesia tightened
capital controls this year, India raised the cap on foreigner’s
bond holdings in September by 50 percent to $30 billion. Indian
debt has been Asia’s worst performer in 2010 after China and
Taiwan, indexes compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc show. The rupee
has advanced 5 percent this year, less than half the gains in
Thailand’s baht and Malaysia’s ringgit.  “There are unlikely to be any capital controls,”  Nizam Idris , a currency strategist with UBS AG in Singapore, said in
an interview on Nov. 10. “Currency appreciation will happen and
inflows will continue.”  Rate Flexibility  The government doesn’t plan to impose controls on foreign
capital flows, the prime minister’s top economic adviser,
 Chakravarthy Rangarajan , said in New Delhi yesterday. His
comments followed Taiwan’s decision to restore curbs on foreign
investment for its debt this week, South Korea’s plans to
tighten controls on foreign-exchange derivatives and Thailand’s
removal of a 15 percent tax exemption for foreign investors on
its debt last month.  India is “helping to demonstrate the dynamism that can
accompany domestic demand-led growth combined with significant
exchange-rate flexibility,” Geithner wrote in a guest column in
the Hindustan Times on Nov. 8 during a visit to New Delhi. He
travelled on to the Group of 20 nations’ summit in Seoul, where
leaders are discussing measures to help ease excessive
volatility in capital flows and rebalance global trade.  UBS, the world’s second-biggest currency trader, forecast
the rupee will advance to 38 per dollar by the end of next year,
compared with the 43.45 median forecast in a Bloomberg survey.
The rupee was little changed at 44.31 yesterday.  Fair Value  Investors are buying India’s bonds after the debt
underperformed earlier this year as average inflation during the
first nine months jumped sevenfold to 9.7 percent. International
funds have purchased $10 billion in rupee debt in 2010, more
than the combined amount for the previous eight years, according
to the Securities & Exchange Board of India.  The yield on India’s 10-year  bonds  rose 1 basis point to
8.08 percent yesterday, bringing this year’s increase to 49
basis points. A basis point is 0.01 percent. Similar-maturity
bonds fetch 3.90 percent in China, 7.39 percent in Indonesia,
7.53 percent in Russia and 12.15 percent in Brazil.  The  difference  in yields between India’s debt due in a
decade and similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries was 547 basis
points. The measure has averaged 317 basis points during the
past decade.  “Indian bonds offer more value than Indonesian bonds,”
 Pieter Van Der Schaft , head of Asian rates research at Morgan
Stanley, said in an interview in Singapore on Nov. 9. “The fair
value for the 10-year bond should be around 7.50 percent.”  Capital Inflows  India has the ability to absorb capital inflows of as much
as $70 billion without “any problem,” the government’s
Rangarajan told reporters yesterday. The nation relies on
capital inflows to help fund its current-account deficit, which
widened to a record $13.7 billion in the three months ended June
30.  The deficit “is not a virtue, but has become one now,”
according to  Priyanka Chakravarty , a Mumbai-based foreign-
exchange strategist at Standard Chartered Plc. She predicted the
rupee will trade at 44 by the end of the financial year in
March.  “The government isn’t imposing capital controls as they
are of the view that flows are welcome,” Mumbai-based
Chakravarty said in an interview on Nov. 10. “Imports could
continue to exceed exports, and we could very well manage $3
billion to $5 billion of monthly inflows without leading to an
accelerated appreciation of the rupee.”  Central bank Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  warned in a speech
last month that near-zero interest rates in developed nations
are fueling “speculative” capital flows into emerging markets,
heightening the risk of an asset-price build-up. Inflation
remains the Reserve Bank’s primary concern, he said in a Nov. 3
interview, a day after raising borrowing costs for a sixth time
this year.  Inflation Risk  “The risk of India imposing direct controls to stem gains
in the rupee seems to be lower than in other emerging countries
in Asia,”  Masahiko Ejiri , a Tokyo-based senior fund manager at
Mizuho Asset Management Co., which oversees the equivalent of
$41 billion, said in an interview yesterday. “Some risks remain
on the inflation side.”  The cost of protecting the debt of government-owned State
Bank of India, which some investors perceive as a proxy for the
nation, has declined. The price of credit-default swaps on the
lender has decreased 78 basis points to 161 points from a one-
year high reached in May, according to data provider CMA.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  “The structural story on India is already very strong and
not a flash in the pan,”  Vishnu Varathan , a Singapore-based
Asia economist at Capital Economics Ltd., said in an interview
yesterday. “If other countries are going to put up barriers
like taxation it makes the relative attraction story on India
even more compelling.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Lui  at 
 pPlui4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 