-- Russia Urges G-20 to Remove Investment Barriers to Offset Hot Money Flows
-- B y   P a u l   A b e l s k y   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2010-11-11T15:40:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/russia-urges-g-20-to-remove-investment-barriers-to-offset-hot-money-flows.html
Russia is urging Group of 20 policy
makers to remove barriers to long-term investment in developed
countries to help emerging economies counter capital inflows as
the U.S. pumps $600 billion into its economy.  The proposal would offset the money flooding into emerging
markets by creating an “oncoming flow” of capital to
industrialized nations, said  Arkady Dvorkovich , senior economic
adviser to President  Dmitry Medvedev , at a Moscow briefing
before the G-20 summit, which begins today in Seoul.  “Large-scale, cross-border investments can serve exactly
to stabilize the situation,” Dvorkovich said. “They will, in
effect, replace investments into sovereign securities of the
developed countries and help regulate the imbalances that appear
as a result of high deficits and surpluses.”  Russia is trying to forge an alternative to devaluations
and capital controls by developing nations seeking to prevent
hot money from creating asset bubbles, said  Yaroslav Lissovolik ,
chief economist at Deutsche Bank AG in Moscow. Interest rates
close to zero in advanced economies have spurred demand for
higher-yielding assets in countries from Brazil to Thailand.  Russia today criticized unilateral currency devaluations,
saying they may trigger “currency wars” because markets will
react with “nervousness.”  “Indirect weakening” of currencies in developed nations
that pump liquidity into their economies poses a “serious
problem,” a member of the Russian delegation in Seoul told
reporters while declining to be identified because the official
wasn’t cleared to speak to the media.  ‘Protectionist Barriers’  The U.S. Federal Reserve fueled concern in emerging
economies last week when it announced plans to buy $600 billion
of long-term government bonds to reduce borrowing costs and spur
growth in a second round of so-called quantitative easing.  China took steps this week to stem inflows that threaten to
drive up stock and property prices. South Korea may revive a 14
percent tax on domestic treasury and central bank bonds held by
foreigners to curb foreign-exchange volatility, a ruling party
lawmaker said yesterday.  “From the point of view of coping with the problem of
global imbalances, too much emphasis has been placed on currency
rates,” Lissovolik said. “Structural measures, including those
aimed at lowering protectionist barriers, are more appropriate
in helping find a lasting solution.”  U.S. FDI Shrinks  Capital flows into emerging markets are running at $575
billion a year, 20 percent higher than before the world
financial crisis, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in September.  Meanwhile, foreign direct investment in the U.S. shrank to
0.9 percent of gross domestic product in 2009 from 2.3 percent a
year earlier, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares
with 3 percent in Russia and 2.6 percent in India.  Regulatory hurdles in the U.S. serve to discourage
countries like China from seeking acquisitions, Dvorkovich said
during the Moscow briefing.  Cnooc Ltd. , the Hong Kong-listed unit of China’s largest
offshore oil and gas explorer, abandoned an $18.5 billion bid
for El Segundo, California-based Unocal Corp. in 2005 because of
opposition from U.S. lawmakers.  The U.K. government warned in 2006 that any bid from OAO
Gazprom, Russia’s gas export monopoly, for Centrica Plc,
Britain’s biggest energy supplier, would face rigorous tests
about its affect on energy security. Canada last week blocked
Melbourne-based BHP Billiton Ltd.’s $40 billion hostile bid for
 Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. , saying it didn’t provide a
“net benefit” to the country.  Global Imbalances  The G-20 has to counter “trade protectionism,” according
to a statement issued yesterday by South Korean President  Lee Myung-bak ’s office after he met with Medvedev. G-20 leaders
pledged to resist protectionism in June when they met in Canada.  The Russian proposal fails to address global imbalances
that result from insufficient demand in emerging markets, said
 Neil Shearing , a senior emerging-market analyst at Capital
Economics in London.  “Inflows of FDI would tend to increase the supply
potential of the developed world rather than boost demand” in
emerging economies, he said. “There is already an overhang of
supply in the West. Why the need for further investment?”  Russian Barriers  While Russia is campaigning to open markets in North
America and western Europe, it has the most protectionist trade
policies in the G-20, according to a June 20 report compiled by
the Washington-based Peterson Institute for International
Economics and released by the  International Chamber of Commerce .  The U.S. was second, followed by India, Argentina, Brazil
and China. Countries took steps to shield industries from
international competition as job losses rose and the European
sovereign-debt crisis damped growth, according to the report.  Russia has imposed tariffs on imported cars and limited
poultry imports from the U.S. by reducing permissible chlorine
levels. Wood-export duties opposed by paper companies such as
Helsinki-based  Stora Enso Oyj  are the main remaining “sticking
point” in Russia’s talks to join the  World Trade Organization ,
European Trade Commissioner  Karel De Gucht  said Nov. 9.  While Russian officials have said they aren’t considering
capital controls and won’t seek to weaken the ruble, they sided
with other BRIC countries last month in opposing U.S. efforts to
weaken mechanisms to control currency fluctuations.  The Russian government is trying to “score political
points” with its emerging-market peers in a G-20 dominated by
the U.S., China, Japan and the EU, said  Fyodor Lukyanov , editor
of the Moscow-based journal Russia in Global Affairs.  “Russia is trying to find a niche in which it’s useful for
someone,” Lukyanov said. “It’s looking to strike a balance
between the interests of different member countries.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Paul Abelsky  in Moscow at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lyubov Pronina  in Seoul via Moscow office at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net . 