-- Russia Sees 1 Trillion Rubles From State Asset Sales
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   P a u l   A b e l s k y
-- 2010-11-11T14:48:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/russia-plans-to-earn-1-trillion-rubles-from-state-asset-sales-in-3-years.html
Russia’s government estimates it
will make about 1 trillion rubles ($32.7 billion) in the next
three years from selling its holdings in companies including
Russia’s biggest shipper and largest port by volume.  The government plans to decrease its stake in shipper OAO
Sovcomflot to 75 percent plus one share in 2011 and auction off
20 percent of OAO Novorossiysk Commercial Sea Port,  Alexei Uvarov , head of the Economy Ministry’s property department, told
reporters in Moscow today.  Selling the biggest 10 companies in 2011-2013 will account
for all but 16 billion rubles of the total amount the
authorities expect to raise from the program, Uvarov said,
adding that the plan submitted by the Economy Ministry will be
discussed at a Cabinet meeting next week.  Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s government is auctioning
off assets to help cover a budget shortfall it expects to reach
5.3 percent of gross domestic product this year and 3.6 percent
in 2011. State asset sales will cover 16 percent to 17 percent
of the deficit in the next three years, compared with 0.3
percent this year, Economy Minister  Elvira Nabiullina  said on
Sept. 23.  List of Banks  The government seeks to raise about 1.8 trillion rubles in
asset sales over the next five years by privatizing about 900
companies, including  OAO Rosneft , the country’s biggest oil
producer, and lenders OAO Sberbank and VTB Group, First Deputy
Prime Minister  Igor Shuvalov  said on Oct. 20. Russia had a
shortfall of 5.9 percent last year, its first deficit in a
decade, after the economy posted its biggest contraction on
record.  Russia selected banks including Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
Morgan Stanley, Credit Suisse AG, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Deutsche Bank AG as advisers for its planned sales, the
government said in an order signed on Oct. 25.  The list of 10 banks, which also includes Moscow-based
Renaissance Capital and VTB Capital, may be expanded, Uvarov
said. Specific advisers will be selected to oversee each
privatization deal, and the choice will depend on banks’
expertise and industry experience as well as details of the
transaction, he said.  Apatit Stake  The government’s planned sale of a 10 percent stake in VTB,
the country’s second-largest lender, will be made at market
prices, according to Uvarov. Bank of America Corp’s Merrill
Lynch unit today signed an agreement with the Federal Property
Agency to manage the deal.  The ministry will by Dec. 2 submit a proposal for selling
the stake that will incorporate advice from Merrill Lynch,
according to Uvarov.  The Economy Ministry has also agreed with the Industry and
Trade Ministry to place 20 percent of OAO Apatit, OAO PhosAgro’s
flagship phosphate-mining division, on sale next year, Uvarov
said. Phosagro, Russia’s largest maker of phosphate fertilizers,
is currently studying a joint bid with domestic competitors for
 Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.  after Canada blocked a $40
billion unsolicited offer by BHP Billiton Ltd.  The government will sell new and existing shares in
Sovcomflot, Uvarov said, adding that a 12.5 percent stake
composed of new shares will be sold as part of an initial public
offering.  Russia’s last major asset sale was in 2007, when VTB raised
$8 billion in the biggest initial public offering that year. Oil
producer OAO Rosneft’s IPO a year earlier raised $10.6 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Abelsky  in Moscow at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net . 