-- RWE Declines as Third-Quarter Recurrent Profit Misses Estimates
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2010-11-11T09:42:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/rwe-says-nine-month-recurring-net-increases-on-acquisition-in-netherlands.html
RWE AG , Germany’s second-largest
utility, fell in Frankfurt trading after saying third-quarter
recurrent net income declined more than expected as coal-fired
power generation in the U.K. was less profitable.  The profit gauge, which RWE uses to determine its  dividend ,
was 429 million euros ($590.4 million) compared with 639 million
euros a year earlier, Bloomberg calculated by subtracting first-
half figures published in August from nine-month results the
Essen, Germany-based company released in a  statement  on its
website today. That missed the 515.6 million-euro average
estimate of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The UK division showed disappointing results,”  Mario Kristl , a Frankfurt based analyst at DZ Bank AG, wrote in a
report today. The “company said it only expects strong headwind
in 2011. But that is no surprise due to the nuclear fuel tax and
to the current headwind in the gas price.”  RWE said cost cuts at the U.K. unit and higher output from
natural-gas-fired electricity plants didn’t compensate for lower
profits from coal-fired power generation in the quarter. Larger
competitor E.ON AG said yesterday that it will seek to grow
outside of Europe as electricity prices in the region aren’t
gaining at the pace utilities had planned and as Germany plans
to tax nuclear stations to help plug its deficit.  RWE fell 2 percent to 49.99 euros in Frankfurt trading as
of 9:58 a.m. local time, extending the company’s declined this
year to 26 percent. That compares with a 23 percent drop for
E.ON and a 13 percent increase for Germany’s benchmark DAX
Index, which  includes  both companies.  Dutch, Belgian Acquisitions  RWE, Europe’s largest  corporate emitter  of carbon dioxide,
acquired Dutch competitor Essent NV last year to access cleaner-
burning power plants and gain Dutch and Belgian customers.  Nine month recurrent net income gained 11 percent to 3.2
billion euros as the acquisition boosted earnings. The
Netherlands/Belgium unit’s operating result declined in the
third quarter after it refunded RWE’s German power segment for a
plant that was transferred between the divisions.  Earnings for generating power in the U.K. “are likely to
improve considerably in the fourth quarter,’ RWE said, adding
that price decreases for power and gas customers sapped profits
in the third-quarter.  While German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government agreed
to allow nuclear reactors to run longer in exchange for payments
to a renewable energy fund, it stuck to a plan to raise an
annual 2.3 billion euros from the country’s four largest
utilities for six years starting in 2011.  Declining Profit  RWE said today that Germany’s levies could slash its
operating result by an average of 600 million euros to 700
million euros a year. The company has said that it will seek to
reduce spending to help offset that decline.  German power for delivery in 2011 averaged 50.25 euros a
megawatt-hour in the first nine months of the year, 7.8 percent
less than the 54.50 euros it fetched in the same period in 2009,
broker data on Bloomberg show. German electricity can be sold
several years in advance in order to limit price volatility.  E.ON said yesterday that it plans to sell 15 billion euros
of assets and enter markets outside of Europe to boost earnings
amid the decline in energy prices and increased government
intervention in the sector. Adjusted earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization will be at about their 2010
level in 2013, E.ON said.  RWE placed its mid-term strategy and goals ‘‘under review”
in August in response to the planned tax on reactors in its home
market and is scheduled to give investors an update in February.  The German utility completed the 7.3 billion-euro takeover
of Arnhem, Netherlands-based Essent in September last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Comfort  in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  