-- Mexico's Salinas Goes After Televisa With Cable-TV Service
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2010-11-11T21:17:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/salinas-challenges-televisa-carlos-slim-with-cable-tv-service-total-play.html
Ricardo Salinas , Mexico’s second-
richest person according to Forbes magazine, is challenging
Grupo Televisa SA with a new cable-TV service in the nation’s
capital.  Total Play, a unit of Salinas’s Mexico City-based mobile-
phone carrier  Grupo Iusacell SA , offers packages of video, Web
and phone service in 13 Mexico City neighborhoods, with plans to
expand, according to the company’s  website . Iusacell executives
declined to comment, said  Dan McCosh , a company spokesman.  The video service gives closely held  Iusacell , which began
offering Internet and land-line phone calls in parts of Mexico’s
three biggest cities this year, a new way to lure customers from
Mexico City-based  Televisa , which controls three of the nation’s
largest cable-TV carriers. Salinas’s TV Azteca SA is the second-
biggest broadcaster in Mexico after Televisa.  Total Play’s packages of video, voice and Internet range
from 649 pesos to 1,399 pesos ($53 to $114) a month. The
cheapest plan has download speeds of as much as 5 megabits a
second. The comparable package at Televisa’s Mexico City carrier
Empresas Cablevision SAB costs 699 pesos a month.  Televisa Executive Vice President  Alfonso de Angoitia  said
last month the company is examining ways to enter the mobile-
phone market, where Iusacell is the third-biggest carrier behind
America Movil SAB and Telefonica SA.  Total Play also represents new competition for Mexican
billionaire  Carlos Slim , the world’s richest man, according to
Forbes. His Telefonos de Mexico SAB has about 70 percent of
Mexico’s high-speed Internet subscribers and 79 percent of its
phone customers. The company has a partnership with satellite-TV
provider Dish Mexico, co-owned by EchoStar Corp. and MVS
Comunicaciones SA.  Televisa fell 94 centavos, or 1.6 percent, to 56.63 pesos
at 4:10 p.m. New York time in  trading  in Mexico City. Telmex
 dropped  6 centavos to 9.57 pesos.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Crayton Harrison  in Mexico City at 
 Tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  