-- Sell Emerging-Market Currencies to Reap Profits, Brown Brothers Recommends
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2010-11-11T20:01:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/sell-emerging-market-currencies-to-reap-profits-brown-brothers-recommends.html
Investors should take profit on
gains in emerging-market currencies, which are likely to fall
through the rest of the year as concern that some European
countries may need bailouts curbs risk appetite, according to
Brown Brothers Harriman & Co.  Currencies such as the Brazilian real, South Korean won and
Mexican peso will reverse earlier advances as the market’s
attention turns to Europe,  Win Thin , a senior currency
strategist at the firm in New York, wrote in a note to clients
today. Emerging-market currencies will likely strengthen in
2011, he wrote.  “Rather than going in and trying to buy on the dips, take
profit or, if you want to catch this move, go short,” Thin said
in an interview. “We are short-term negative on emerging
markets, but longer that it will bounce back.” A short position
is a bet a currency will fall.  The dollar rose against most major currencies today as
risk-averse investors sought its refuge amid a drop in stocks
and speculation that some European nations will have difficulty
paying their debt. The greenback gained 1 percent to $1.3653 per
euro and rose 0.2 percent to 82.43 yen. It appreciated 0.3
percent versus Mexico’s peso and 0.4 percent against the real.  A basket of 10 emerging-market currencies tracked by Brown
Brothers dropped almost 10 percent against the dollar from mid-
April to Mid-June as the euro fell 13 percent during the period,
the last time European sovereign debt took center stage, Thin
said. The basket includes the real, the won, Mexico’s peso, the
Indian rupee and the Philippine peso.  “Once the euro-zone crisis stabilized, emerging-market
foreign exchange resumed its upward march, with our EM basket
gaining 16 percent from mid-June to early November,” Thin
wrote. “We see that happening now too, with EM currencies
likely to resume their rallies in 2011 after the current shake-
out ends.”  Emerging-market fundamentals are strong, and the sector
“simply is vulnerable to risk-off trading that is coming from
the peripheral euro zone,” Thin wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  