-- Serbia's Credit-Rating Outlook Raised to Stable at Fitch on Risk, Growth
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2010-11-11T20:41:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/serbia-s-credit-rating-outlook-raised-to-stable-at-fitch-on-risk-growth.html
Serbia had the outlook on its credit
rating raised to “stable” from “negative” at Fitch Ratings,
which cited the reduced risk of an external financing crisis,
resumed economic growth and the government’s budget cuts.  Fitch affirmed Serbia’s ‘BB-’ rating, three steps below
investment grade, analyst  Charles Seville  said in a statement
from London today. The “stable” outlook means that the ratings
company is more likely to keep it unchanged than to raise or to
reduce it.  Serbia is struggling to emerge from its first recession
since 1999, when a NATO bombing, aimed at forcing the country’s
troops to withdraw from Kosovo, destroyed most of its
infrastructure. The government relies on a 3 billion-euro ($4.1
billion) International Monetary Fund loan to support its balance
of payments.  “Risks have receded compared with the onset of the global
financial crisis,” the Fitch statement said. “Serbia’s current
account deficit has narrowed, IMF” funds “helped bolster
reserves and investor confidence while foreign-owned banks have
maintained exposure.”  The economy, which contracted 3 percent in 2009, may grow 3
percent in 2011, after 1.5 percent in 2010, Fitch said. The
government adopted new fiscal rules to ensure deficit reduction
at times of growth.  ‘Relatively Rich’  The debt rating, on par with Lesotho and Nigeria, is also
supported by Serbia’s “relatively rich” economy, with GDP per
capita of $5,690, which is “well above the ‘BB’ range median,”
Fitch said.  The 2010 current-account gap narrowed to an estimated 9
percent of GDP from 18 percent in 2008, while a decline in
short-term debt lowered Serbia’s external financing requirement
to 52 percent of its 2010 reserves, Fitch said.  Political risks weigh on the rating as the ruling pro-EU
coalition governs with a “narrow” majority and faces
parliamentary and presidential elections, Fitch said.  “This could hamper the implementation of reforms and
deficit reduction,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gordana Filipovic  in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  