-- Serbian Central Bank Board Raises Europe's Highest Benchmark Rate to 10.5%
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2010-11-11T12:08:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/serbian-central-bank-board-raises-europe-s-highest-benchmark-rate-to-10-5-.html
Serbia’s central bank raised its
benchmark interest rate to 10.5 percent, giving the Balkan
nation the highest policy rate in Europe to fight accelerating
inflation and pressures stemming from a weakening dinar.  The one percentage-point increase today by the Belgrade-
based  National Bank of Serbia  was its  fourth in four months .
Twelve of 22 respondents in a Bloomberg survey forecast an
increase of between a quarter-point and a full point. Ten saw
the two-week repurchase rate unchanged.  The bank took “into account the need to halt an increase
in inflationary pressures, fuelled by an increase in food
prices, the impact of the dinar’s depreciation so far, as well
as a faster recovery in aggregate demand,” the bank said in a
statement on its website.  Retail-price inflation accelerated to an annual 9.9 percent
in October, and the central bank says the consumer-price index
probably rose to more than 9 percent. The bank has pledged to
stick with its inflation target of 4.5 percent, plus or minus
1.5 percentage point, at the end of 2011.  Its 2010 target of 6 percent, plus or minus two percentage
points, is likely to be exceeded on food price volatility and
stronger economic growth driven by consumer spending.  Above Target  “Annual inflation will remain above” the target band in
the coming months and “the interest increase by 100 basis
points is needed to make sure that inflation returns to the
band” in 2011 and 2012, the bank statement said.  The rate increase followed a series of central bank
interventions in the foreign-exchange market to curb the losses
in the dinar, the currency which has already lost 11 percent
against the euro this year so far.  Narodna Banka Srbije  sold 95 million euros ($130.5 million)
on the interbank market since the start of the month and more
than 2.3 billion euros since the start of the year, as the dinar
suffers from a lack of foreign capital inflows and corporate
external debt repayments.  The dinar traded in a range between 106.95 and 107.15 to
the euro after the rate announcement, barely changed against
morning levels, according to Bloomberg data.  The central bank raised its policy rate amid pressures on
dinar-denominated debt in the local market, with “weak investor
demand to subscribe the sovereign debt amid uncertainties over
the magnitude of monetary tightening,” Hypo Alpe Banka said in
a note to clients before the announcement.  The government borrowed today almost 5 billion dinars in
six-month Treasury bills at an average yield of 13 percent, 0.2
percentage points more than in late October at an auction of the
same maturity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gordana Filipovic  in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  