-- Shirakawa's Professor Says BOJ Should Expand Asset Fund to Beat Deflation
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a   a n d   T a t s u o   I t o
-- 2010-11-11T06:00:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/shirakawa-s-professor-says-boj-should-expand-asset-fund-to-beat-deflation.html
Bank of Japan Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa ’s former economics professor said the central bank
isn’t doing enough to lift the country out of deflation and curb
a rising yen that’s hurting exporters.  The BOJ ought to expand asset purchases to between at least
20 trillion to 25 trillion yen ($304 billion) to boost demand,
said  Koichi Hamada , a Yale-University professor who once taught
Shirakawa at Tokyo University. Japan’s central bank unveiled a 5
trillion yen fund last month to buy government and corporate
debt, exchange-traded funds and real-estate investment trusts.  “That’s a big improvement in terms of direction,” said
Hamada, 74, in an interview in Tokyo yesterday. Even so, a
further strengthening in the yen and continued price falls after
the BOJ’s Oct. 5 move suggest the measure may be “too little
and too late” and “far insufficient,” he said.  Hamada’s remarks echo concern among economists that the
Bank of Japan’s steps so far won’t be able to stop a renewed yen
rise to 15-year highs against the dollar or push up consumer
prices, which have fallen for 19 straight months. The bank may
need to increase its asset buys to 20 trillion yen by the end of
2011 if the economy slumps, said Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  ‘Too Small’  The BOJ’s latest easing steps are “too small” and “BOJ
officials are openly skeptical about its efficacy,” economists
at JPMorgan Chase & Co. wrote in a note this week.  The yen has appreciated 1.4 percent against the dollar
since the October BOJ move, when it also lowered the  overnight
rate target  to between zero to 0.1 percent. The currency climbed
to 80.22 against the dollar on Nov. 1, the highest level since
April 1995. It was trading at 82.21 at 2:09 p.m. in Tokyo.  Consumer prices  excluding fresh food dropped for the 19th
straight month in September. BOJ board members are forecasting
inflation below the 1 percent increase they consider as stable
in the three years through March 2013.  Japanese  exports  grew at their slowest pace this year in
September. “If the yen stays at this level in the mid- to long-
term, this is an extremely painful prospect,”  Toyota Motor Corp. 
Executive Vice President Satoshi Ozawa said last week.  Hamada published an open letter in June to Shirakawa saying
the BOJ ought to take unorthodox policy measures such as asset
purchases to stoke inflation. The professor, wearing a tie with
a blue ‘Yale’ logo, said he was encouraged that the BOJ now
appears to think that asset buys may help beat deflation.  Sun Around Earth  “The BOJ used to be like a person who believed the sun
revolved around the earth when everyone else had figured out
that the earth goes around the sun,” he said.  “When the common understanding around the world was that
monetary policy was needed to fix monetary phenomena such as
deflation and a strong yen, the bank seemed to have limited
awareness of that connection.”  Given that Japan’s economy is about half the size of the
U.S.’s, the BOJ’s cash injections should also total at least 50
percent of the Federal Reserve’s $600 billion plan, he said.  Hamada, who specializes in international economic policy
and trade, also said that Japan’s sale of about 2 trillion yen
in the currency market in September was inadequate to stop the
yen’s gains. Japan sold around 35 trillion yen in 2003-2004, and
authorities should consider intervention of a similar scale, he
said.  Serious Student  Shirakawa has said that deflation can’t be overcome with
monetary policy alone, and that the BOJ’s so-called quantitative
easing from 2001 to 2006 had little effect in propping up
economic growth. He’s also said that excessive bond buying by
the BOJ could be interpreted as monetizing the government debt
and cause sharp inflation.  Hamada taught Shirakawa at Tokyo University in the early
1970’s, and said he was a “serious” student “who had a talent
for understanding economic models mathematically and
analytically,” he said. “I thought he would have succeeded
even if went into academics.”  The Yale professor said he wants his former student to do
more against deflation because of the pain the falling prices is
causing for Japanese citizens.  Deflation in Roppongi  As a result of deflation, only about 60 percent of new
college graduates are finding work, incomes are falling and
suicide and depression cases are rising, Hamada said.  He detected the consequences of deflation even in the
streets of Roppongi, a Tokyo neighborhood filled with bars,
restaurants and shops where he was staying.  “Roppongi used to always have traffic jams, but now even
on Fridays the driving is smooth. My driver said it’s a sign
that the economy is weak,” he said. “For the past ten or
twenty years, the BOJ has been conducting monetary policy in the
wrong direction. People’s perception isn’t going to change
overnight just because it said it would spend 5 trillion yen.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mayumi Otsuma  in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net ;
 Tatsuo Ito  in Tokyo at 
 Tito2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  