-- Shizuoka, Japan Regional Banks May Accelerate Stock Buybacks, Nomura Says
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o
-- 2010-11-11T08:23:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/shizuoka-japan-regional-banks-may-accelerate-stock-buybacks-nomura-says.html
Shizuoka Bank Ltd.  and Suruga Bank
Ltd. are among Japanese regional lenders that may embark on
another round of stock buybacks this fiscal year to boost
shareholder returns, according to Nomura Holdings Inc.  About 10 provincial banks may buy back shares again in the
year ending March, after making purchases in the first half,
said  Masahiko Sato , an analyst at Nomura Securities Co.  By building internal reserves, Japanese regional banks have
increased their capital above the minimum levels
proposed in September by the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision. Higher reserves have given them room to spend
cash on stock buybacks to bolster share prices, Sato said in a
Nov. 8 interview in Tokyo.  “Other smaller lenders will probably follow suit if
Shizuoka and  Suruga Bank  return to the market in the second half
for buybacks,” said Sato, who has a “neutral” rating on both
stocks. “Slumping bank share prices, coupled with sufficient
capital, are driving a group of regional banks to bring their
focus on boosting their shareholder returns.”  Bank of Saga Ltd.  aims to buy back the maximum of 1 million
shares in the next six months for 230 million yen ($2.8 million)
said it today in a statement to the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  Japanese banks are the third-worst performers on the
benchmark  Topix  index over the past year, falling 19 percent as
the weakening economy reduces demand for loans. The 83-
member  Topix Banks Index  dropped to a record low on Nov. 1, and
bank lending has declined for 11 months.  Suruga Bank shares climbed 1.8 percent to close at 743
yen on the Tokyo Stock Exchange after gaining as much as 3.2
percent. Shizuoka Bank rose 0.1 percent to 726 yen.  Shizuoka Bank’s Buybacks  Ten local banks including Shizuoka and Suruga spent about
30 billion yen ($367 million) this year buying back their own
shares, according to filings.  Shizuoka Bank, based about 180 kilometers (110 miles)
southwest of Tokyo, bought 8.2 million of its shares for 6.1
billion yen in the fiscal first half, the lender said in a
statement filed to the Tokyo Stock Exchange on Sept. 22. It may
continue the practice to meet shareholders’ expectations taking
into account the share price and earnings, said Managing
Executive Officer  Akihiro Nakamura , without giving details on
timing.  Regional banks’ bolstering of reserves contrasts with share
selling by Japan’s three largest banks.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial
Group Inc. , Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc.
and Mizuho Financial Group Inc. raised a combined 4.5 trillion
yen from share sales in the past two years to bolster capital
ahead of stricter global requirements.  Shizuoka Bank raised its core Tier 1 capital ratio, a
measure of a bank’s ability to absorb losses, to about 14
percent as of March 31 from about 12 percent in March 2007,
according to data compiled by the bank.  That’s higher than Mitsubishi UFJ’s core Tier 1 ratio of
6.6 percent as of June 30 and Sumitomo Mitsui’s 5.9 percent,
according to an estimate by UBS AG. Mizuho’s ratio including
convertible preferred stock stood at 4.5 percent.  The Basel committee agreed in September to boost the
minimum capital requirement to 7 percent of assets from 2
percent previously, giving banks almost a decade to fully comply.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shigeru Sato  in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
 Shingo Kawamoto  at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net . 