-- Silvio Santos May Sell Panamericano to Repay Bailout Loan, Meirelles Says
-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i   a n d   A d r i a n a   B r a s i l e i r o
-- 2010-11-11T20:18:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/silvio-santos-may-sell-panamericano-to-repay-rescue-loan-meirelles-says.html
Grupo  Silvio Santos , majority
shareholder of  Banco Panamericano SA , may sell its stake to
repay a 2.5 billion reais ($1.5 billion) loan from the nation’s
deposit insurance fund taken out to rescue the lender, central
bank President  Henrique Meirelles  said.  The rescue of Panamericano happened in an “extremely
rapid” fashion and didn’t cost shareholders, other institutions
or the government any money, Meirelles said in testimony today
before Congress. The central bank said yesterday it’s
investigating accounting irregularities at the lender.  Caixa Economica Federal named three of its vice presidents
to Panamericano’s board, to be chaired by its President  Maria Fernanda Ramos Coelho , according to a Caixa press official
today. State-controlled bank Caixa paid 739 million reais for a
35 percent stake in Panamericano in December.  Panamericano  rose after a 30 percent slump yesterday as
concerned eased the probe threatens the industry’s accounting
credibility. The Sao Paulo-based lender is “the safest bank”
in Brazil because of the central bank’s “very effective”
monitoring of the financial system, said  Domingos Figueiredo de Abreu , executive vice president of  Banco Bradesco SA , Brazil’s
second-biggest bank by market value, in an interview in New
York.  ‘Business Plan’  “Caixa will start executing its business plan with the
partner, possibly the new partner that replaces the controlling
shareholders as it would have to sell its stake to pay” the
deposit insurance fund, known as FGC, Meirelles said.  Panamericano probably will be absorbed by Caixa, according
to Standard Bank New York Inc., which recommended the bank’s
bonds today saying they would become sovereign risk after a
takeover.  Grupo Silvio Santos said in a statement it’s not planning
to sell its holding in Panamericano. A press official at
Panamericano declined to comment.  Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista  told journalists in Rio
de Janeiro today his EBX Group may look into buying assets of
the holding company controlled by Santos.  Grupo Silvio Santos , the Sao Paulo-based holding company of
the Brazilian media mogul, owns television stations, a cosmetics
maker and an electronics retailer and put up assets as
collateral for the loans, Panamericano said in a statement.
 Antonio Carlos Bueno , a director at the fund, said yesterday the
assets are worth 2.7 billion reais, and that Silvio Santos, 79,
participated in every meeting over the past month to design the
bailout.  ‘Name That Tune’  Santos, known for his appearances on Sunday afternoon
variety shows such as a Brazilian equivalent of “Name That
Tune” on his  SBT TV  chain, is willing to sell assets if
necessary to repay the loan to rescue the bank,  Bueno  said at a
press conference yesterday in Sao Paulo.  The son of a Greek immigrant who came to Brazil in the
1920s, Santos started selling plastic document holders at 14 in
the streets of downtown Rio de Janeiro, and later sold watches,
pens, books and other items on the ferries that link cities
along Rio’s Guanabara Bay.  Brazil’s central bank probe into  Panamericano, the nation’s
21st-largest lender by assets,  may cover as much as four years.  “We don’t have enough elements to say why this was done,”
 Alvir Hoffmann , the central bank’s supervision director, said at
a press conference yesterday in Brasilia. While Banco Central
hasn’t determined when the inconsistencies began at the Sao
Paulo-based bank, they “may have started three or four years
ago,” he said.  Shares Rise  Panamericano  shares climbed 4.6 percent today to 4.99
reais. The bank’s dollar bonds due in 2020 were unchanged with
the yield holding at 9 percent, according to prices from Trace.  Bank regulators noticed six weeks ago that there were
discrepancies between the volume of credit the bank declared it
sold and the amount of loan portfolios banks said they bought,
Hoffmann said. The central bank is investigating whether
executives at Panamericano face liability, said an official who
asked that his name not be used in accordance with government
policy. Brazil’s central bank found the discrepancies during
routine supervision of the financial system, Hoffmann said.  ‘Not Real’  “It’s as if I had sold a car but kept it on my income tax
return as an asset, and used that to get credit, saying I own
more than what I really have,” Hoffmann said. “The impact of
showing a result that is not real are the known impacts -- it
leads to the distribution and payments of bonuses, and
obviously, some kind of compensation for being a good generator
of profit.”  Panamericano named  Celso Antunes da Costa  as chief
executive officer, replacing  Rafael Palladino , and seven new
executive directors, after uncovering “accounting
inconsistencies” that misrepresented the company’s assets,
according on a regulatory filing on Nov. 9. The cash injection
aims to “preserve current levels of capital,” Panamericano
said in the filing.  With the funds, the bank’s cash position rose to 3.8
billion reais, enough to maintain solvency, according to an e-
mailed statement from the bank yesterday. Credit and investment
operations are continuing as normal, the bank said.  Moody’s  Moody’s Investors Service placed Panamericano on review for
a possible credit-rating downgrade because of the “rapid drop
in market valuation” over the past few days, the capital
injection and the replacement of the management team, according
to an e-mailed statement. Fitch Ratings today lowered national
ratings on Panamericano to A- from AA+ and placed them on
negative watch.  The bank reported a second-quarter  net loss  of 20.9 million
reais, which was generated by additional expenses of 120 million
reais due to “changes to the criteria used for provisions,”
Moody’s said.  Deloitte & Touche LLP, Panamericano’s auditor, declined to
comment, according to an e-mailed statement late yesterday.  Panamericano had total assets of 12.6 billion reais at the
end of the second quarter, and a credit portfolio of 10.9
billion reais, compared with 10.5 billion reais in the previous
quarter, according to its  website .  Loan Portfolios  The probe will lead to an internal study on how financial
institutions negotiate the sales of loan portfolios to ensure a
bank doesn’t sell them more than once or sell and then keep them
on its books, the central bank’s Hoffmann said. The central bank
has no evidence of similar issues at other banks, he said.  “At the first moment the smaller banks can suffer a
little, but we believe it is transitory,” Bradesco’s Abreu
said. Panamericano is “a simple, isolated case,” he said.  The deposit insurance  fund  was set up by Brazil’s Monetary
Council in 1995 with financing from banks that operate in Brazil
and can be tapped in the event of intervention, liquidation,
bankruptcy or central bank-declared insolvency, according to its
website.  The loan is the second-largest in the fund’s history after
a bailout of 3 billion reais to Banco Bamerindus do Brasil SA in
1997. That year, London-based HSBC Holdings Plc acquired control
of Bamerindus in a transaction worth $1 billion.  No public funds are being used to stabilize Panamericano,
the central bank said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Adriana Brasileiro  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 abrasileiro@bloomberg.net ;
 Andre Soliani  in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net . 