-- South Korean `No Deal' May Damp U.S. Trade Accords Prospects
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m   a n d   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 2010-11-12T09:04:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/south-korea-s-no-deal-with-u-s-may-damp-prospects-for-obama-trade-pacts.html
Before heading to Seoul, U.S. Trade
Representative  Ron Kirk  was warned by Senator  Max Baucus  that
“no deal is better than a bad deal” when it came to
negotiating changes in a free-trade agreement with South Korea.  The announcement by the U.S. and Korean presidents
yesterday that they failed to agree on changes to beef and auto
provisions may make “no deal” the reality for U.S. trade
accords across Asia and the world.  “It’s very disappointing: If they can’t deliver under
these circumstances, you have to wonder,” former U.S. Trade
Representative  Susan Schwab  said in a Bloomberg Radio interview
yesterday. “If you can’t re-close a deal when both leaders say
they want it done by a certain time, then you have got some
serious problems.”  President  Barack Obama ’s pledge to rework the agreement and
submit it to Congress was being watched as a signal of the
administration’s ability to get any trade deals approved by
lawmakers,  William Reinsch , president of the National Foreign
Trade Council in Washington, said last week.  “I want to make sure this deal is balanced,” Obama told
reporters at the Group of 20 summit in Seoul today. “I want
trade agreements that work for the other side, but my main job
is to look out for the American people, American workers and
American businesses,”  Doubling Exports  With almost $68 billion in trade  between the nations , the
deal would be the U.S.’s largest since the North American Free
Trade Agreement in 1994 and would help President  Barack Obama 
meet his goal of doubling American exports in five years. The
accord, signed in 2007 by negotiators for President  George W. Bush , has languished in Washington as lawmakers complained about
Korean barriers to exports of U.S. autos and beef.  Ford Motor Co. 
and the United Auto Workers opposed the agreement and sought
changes.  Obama and South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  said they
will seek to resolve differences in coming weeks.  “I think that we can find a sweet spot that works both for
Korea and the United States,” Obama said.  His decision to walk away from a deal in Seoul was praised
by critics such as Baucus, a Montana Democrat, Representative
 Sander Levin , a Michigan Democrat and chairman of the House Ways
and Means Committee, and Representative  Dave Camp , a Michigan
Republican who is in line to be the next chairman of that panel.
That may make it easier to win approval, if a deal is reached
later.  High Stakes  “This is far too important to the bilateral relationship
to blow up over these incremental changes,”  Jeffrey Schott , a
fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in
Washington, said in an interview yesterday.  The stakes go well beyond this deal, according to analysts
such as Schwab, who spoke on the “Bloomberg on the Economy”
program. Schwab signed the Korea agreement as Bush’s trade
representative.  Without a Korea deal, other nations “won’t believe the
United States has the political will to complete and pass an
agreement,”  Ernest Bower , director of the Center for Strategic
and International Studies’ Southeast Asia Program, wrote in a
note yesterday. It’s “the acid test for whether the United
States can return to a leadership position on trade.”  Aid For Doha  Progress on the agreements may help kick-start the stalled
Doha round of global trade talks at the World Trade Organization,
 William Toppeta , president of  MetLife Inc .’s international
business, said yesterday in Seoul.  During Obama’s first two years in office, he didn’t attempt
to push through Congress trade pacts approved by Bush with South
Korea, Colombia and Panama amid high unemployment and opposition
from some fellow Democrats and organized labor.  Trade agreements are becoming unpopular among voters, with
44 percent of Americans saying deals such as Nafta are bad for
the U.S., up from 32 percent a year ago, according to a  poll 
released this week by the Pew Research Center for the People &
the Press. Trade with China and South Korea were the least
popular among a list of eight U.S. partners, according to the
poll of 1,255 adults conducted Nov. 4 to 7.  “Beef was not the only issue that was of concern,” Obama
said in Seoul. “We’ve got about 400,000 Korean autos in the
United States and a few thousand American cars here in Korea.
People are concerned about non-tariff barriers.”  Companies such as  Citigroup Inc. ,  United Parcel Service Inc .
and  Ace Ltd . say an agreement would help open the Korean market
to more U.S. exports and foreign investment in financial
services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Drajem  in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  