-- Obama, Lee Fail to Sign FTA, Talks to Resume After G-20 Summit
-- B y   B o m i   L i m
-- 2010-11-11T06:08:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/south-korea-u-s-fail-to-reach-agreement-on-free-trade-accord-lee-says.html
President  Barack Obama  and his South
Korean counterpart  Lee Myung Bak  failed to reach agreement on a
free-trade accord and said talks will continue after the Group
of 20 summit in Seoul.  “We decided that we need more to fine-tune details,” Lee
told reporters at a joint press conference with Obama in Seoul
today. Obama said that while an FTA will ultimately be “win,
win” for everybody, the two countries must ensure it broad
approval.  “If we rush something that can’t garner popular support
that’s going to be a problem,” Obama said. “We think we can
make the case, but we want to make sure that case is air
tight.”  Obama has shied away from pushing trade pacts with South
Korea, Colombia and Panama in Congress amid high unemployment
and opposition from some fellow Democrats and the party’s
supporters in organized labor.  Ford Motor Co.  and the United
Auto Workers union have led opposition to the trade accord,
citing the need to address South Korea’s tax and regulatory
regimes.  U.S. beef imports to South Korea have faced opposition
since the Asian nation restricted shipments in 2003 when the U.S.
discovered its first case of mad cow disease. Lee had to
apologize in 2008 after agreeing to allow shipments, which
triggered candlelight vigils by tens of thousands of South
Koreans concerned about food safety.  Two-Way Trade  U.S. Trade Representative  Ron Kirk  had held talks with his
South Korean counterpart since Monday in Seoul to revise the
trade accord, signed in 2007 and never implemented. Obama said
in June he would like to see the deal completed by his visit to
Seoul for the summit, a commitment he reaffirmed in a Nov. 2
telephone conversation with  Lee .  With almost $68 billion in two-way trade between the
nations, the deal would have been the U.S.’s largest free-trade
accord since the North American Free Trade Agreement in 1994 and
may help Obama meet his goal of doubling American exports in
five years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  