-- South African ANC's Julius Malema Inspires Mine Nationalization Anthem
-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2010-11-11T12:00:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/south-african-anc-s-julius-malema-inspires-mine-nationalization-anthem.html
A South African disc jockey released
a song championing nationalization, after being inspired by
youth leader Julius Malema, who is lobbying for the state to
take control of mines including the world’s biggest platinum
operations.  Malema, the youth president of the ruling African National
Congress, gave DJ Oskido ideas for his 5-minute
’Nationalisation’ anthem on the 3-CD ‘Church Grooves Tenth
Commandment’ house album, which was released this month, the ANC
Youth League said.  “We are asking you, Msholozi, for nationalization,”
vocalist Winnie Khumalo sings, using President Jacob Zuma’s
popular nickname. “Send us to do the job. Send the Youth League
to do the job with Malema.”  Malema on Sept. 30 vowed to drum up popular support for the
idea of giving the state control of new mining projects in
Africa’s largest economy. This came after the ANC agreed to
debate the merits of the idea for the next two years.  South Africa’s mineral resources are worth about $2.5
trillion according to Citigroup Inc. The country has the world’s
largest reserves of platinum, chrome and manganese and also
produces gold, coal, iron ore, diamonds and copper.  State ownership of mines will create more jobs in a country
with an unemployment rate of 25.3 percent, Malema has argued.
Proceeds from the minerals will more directly benefit the
population, he has said.  The song featured on Johannesburg’s Metro FM radio station
today with callers to the station both criticizing and praising
the song. In a version played by the station, Khumalo’s singing
is interspersed with Malema intoning the benefits of
nationalization.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Carli Lourens  in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net .
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 