-- South African Platinum Production Advances 46% as Prices Climb
-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 2010-11-11T12:43:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/south-african-mine-output-rose-12-1-in-september-statistics-office-says.html
South Africa said production of
platinum group metals surged 46 percent in September as price
gains spurred output and after a labor strike at Impala Platinum
Holdings Ltd. cut shipments the previous year.  The country’s total output of mined commodities rose 12
percent, Statistics SA said today on its  website .  South Africa, with more than three-quarters of the world’s
platinum reserves, is expanding extraction of the metal as an
increase in demand from auto and jewelry makers boosts prices.
Platinum group metals also include iridium, osmiridium,
palladium, rhodium, ruthenium and osmium.  Platinum prices in London jumped 23 percent in September
from a year earlier. Palladium has rallied 75 percent this year.
Gains in the metals helped drive up South Africa’s total mineral
sales by 28 percent to 25.7 billion rand ($3.74 billion) in
August from a year earlier, Statistics SA said. Sales figures
lag behind production data.  South Africa’s September gold output fell 4.7 percent, even
after sales rose 28 percent in August from a year earlier.
Production of the precious metal is becoming more costly and
more difficult as South African mines, already the deepest in
the world, reach further into the earth.  Gold Gains  Gold prices have risen 29 percent this year. The metal is
heading for its 10th annual gain, the longest winning streak
since at least 1920, as investors seek an alternative asset to
protect against the debasement of currencies. Gold traded near a
record today at $1,413.90 an ounce as of 12:08 p.m. in London.  Platinum traded at $1,765.57 an ounce in London. Output of
the metal was curbed in September last year by a strike at
Johannesburg-based  Impala , which accounts for a quarter of
global output.  South Africa’s chromium and manganese ore output advanced
32 percent in September, while nickel production climbed 24
percent. Manganese ore sales almost quadrupled, according to the
data.  The  ThomReuters/Jefferies CRB  index of commodity prices has
increased 12 percent this year to the highest level in more than
two years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carli Lourens  in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  