-- South Africa Factory Output Slows by More Than Expected as Recovery Stalls
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2010-11-11T11:46:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/south-africa-manufacturing-growth-slowed-to-1-4-in-september-agency-says.html
South African  manufacturing  output
grew an annual 1.4 percent in September, its slowest pace in 11
months, adding to pressure on the central bank to cut the
benchmark interest rate next week.  Growth in factory output, which accounts for 15 percent of
the economy, eased from 5.3 percent in August, Pretoria-based
 Statistics South Africa  said on its website today. The median
estimate of 11 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg was 3 percent.
 Output  fell a seasonally adjusted 0.4 percent in the month.  The Reserve Bank has cut its key interest rate eight times
since December 2008, leaving it at 6 percent, to help spur
consumer spending. It will lower the rate by another half a
percentage point on Nov. 18, according to eight of 12 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg before today’s announcement.  “It will add to the case for a further interest rate
cut,”  Carmen Altenkirch , an economist with Nedbank Group Ltd.,
said in an interview from Johannesburg. “You continue to see
weakness, in particular in sectors relying on the export market,
particularly chemicals as well as iron and steel.”  The strength of the rand, which has gained 7.3 percent
against the dollar this year, is making it harder for South
African companies to sell goods abroad, Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said on Nov. 9. A $600 billion second round of asset
purchases by the U.S. Federal Reserve, announced Nov. 3, may
drive the rand up further as the dollar weakens, he said.  Manufacturers continued to eliminate jobs in October, with
the  Purchasing Managers Index , an indicator of manufacturing
production, remaining below 50 for a second consecutive month,
Kagiso Securities Ltd. said on Nov. 1.  South Africa’s economy shed 86,000 jobs in the third
quarter, pushing the  unemployment rate  to 25.3 percent, the
highest of 62 countries tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 