-- Spacey Goes Underground, Gorillaz Growl, Pooches on Parade: London Weekend
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2010-11-11T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/spacey-goes-underground-gorillaz-growl-pooches-on-parade-london-weekend.html
A moneyed, married cabinet minister
is blackmailed over past infidelities.  Sound like yesterday’s front page? It’s the plot of  Oscar Wilde ’s “An Ideal Husband,” which just opened at London’s
Vaudeville Theatre.  Alexander Hanson plays Sir Robert Chiltern, the cabinet
minister, and Rachael Stirling, his devoted wife.  The Vaudeville Theatre is at 404 Strand, London WC2R 0NH.
Information:  http://www.vaudeville-theatre.co.uk  or call
+44-845-505-8500.  Saturday  Looking for a canine companion?  More than 200 different breeds will be on parade at
“Discover Dogs” -- shown off by their owners in snazzy meet-
and-greet booths. There’s a prize for the Best Dog or Bitch.  This is a good opportunity to discover your favorite breed.
The U.K.’s (and actress  Gwyneth Paltrow ’s) is the Labrador
retriever, according to a survey done for the show.  Oddly, you can’t bring a dog if you already have one.  Adult tickets cost 13 pounds ($21) at the door and 10
pounds in advance. “Discover Dogs” is at the Earls Court
exhibition center.  Information:  http://www.discoverdogs.org.uk  or call
+44-844-581-1381.  Saturday Night  Herbie Hancock , 70, plays the Royal Festival Hall on
Saturday and Sunday for the  London Jazz Festival , presenting
live versions of his latest album, “The Imagine Project.”  Other seniors to watch for: 80-year-old tenor saxophonist
Sonny Rollins, on Saturday Nov. 20 at the  Barbican ; and throaty
existentialist chanteuse Juliette Greco, 83, at the  Royal
Festival Hall  on Sunday Nov. 21.  The London Jazz Festival runs from Nov. 12 to 21.  Information:  http://www.londonjazzfestival.org.uk .  Sunday  Pleats, loose-fitting kimonos, and lop-sided overalls in
austere shades of black and white recall the heyday of Issey
Miyake and friends at the Barbican Gallery’s Japanese fashion
show.  For newer couture, look at the wacky Mintdesigns, which
ornaments its dresses with shredded and recycled paper
envelopes.  “ Future Beauty: 30 Years of Japanese Fashion ” is at the
Barbican Centre, Silk Street, London EC2Y 8DS. Information:
 http://44-845-120-7550  or call +44-845-120-7550.  To eat nearby, walk up to Whitecross Street for Pham
Sushi’s Japanese fare:  http://www.phamsushi.co.uk/index.html .  Vegetarian Carnevale has been around for some 15 years,
serving dishes such as ravioli stuffed with goat’s cheese and
butternut squash with balsamic glazed cherry tomatoes and puy
lentils:  http://www.carnevalerestaurant.co.uk/index.html   Sawasdee offers great spicy Thai cuisine, for a local
eatery. Set lunch is 9.95 pounds with a soft drink; you can
bring your own wine.  http://www.sawasdee-london.co.uk/menu.html .  Sunday Afternoon  Crawl through the dark tunnels below Waterloo Station.  Kevin Spacey , who runs London’s Old Vic, has set a piece of
community theater called “Platform” inside the Old Vic
 tunnels , which stretch right below the nearby train station.  The show evokes everyday London with an East End bar, a
broken-down Tube train, a housing project, a City restaurant.
While “Platform” is already sold out, the Old Vic runs a
returns queue from one hour before the show’s matinee at 2:30
p.m. and the last show which is also tonight at 7:45 p.m.  The Old Vic Tunnels are on Leake Street, SE1 7NN.
“Platform” is supported by Bloomberg LP.  Information:  http://www.oldvictheatre.com  or
+44-844-871-7628.  For a good meal, try the Royal Festival Hall’s Skylon grill
and restaurant, with great river views:  http://www.skylon -
restaurant.co.uk/.  The Anchor & Hope is for food lovers who enjoy its seasonal
British cuisine: While no bookings are taken, if you arrive at
opening times (midday and 6 p.m.) you’ll get in. (No Web site).  If you’re rushed, Waterloo Brasserie is across from the Old
Vic and serves modern European dishes. The bar may be as much of
a draw as the restaurant:  http://www.thewaterloobrasserie.com/ .  Sunday Night  Damon Albarn ’s band Gorillaz is in town.  The “virtual group” began as faceless recording musicians
represented by animator  Jamie Hewlett ’s cartoon characters.
Gorillaz has now grown into a live reality, with some of its
studio collaborators joining the fun, including rappers  Snoop Dogg  and singer Bobby Womack.  The band is promoting its CD “Plastic Beach,” an
ambitious musical mish-mash and environmental protest.  The O2, Peninsula Square, SE10 0DX. Information:
 http://www.theo2.co.uk ,  http://gorillaz.com/   ( Farah Nayeri  writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Farah Nayeri  in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 