-- Spanish Bond Yields at Risk as Debt Contagion Gathers Force: Euro Credit
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2010-11-12T11:17:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/spanish-bond-yields-at-risk-as-debt-contagion-gathers-force-euro-credit.html
Spain’s efforts to cut the euro
region’s third-biggest deficit may not avert record borrowing
costs, as investors speculating on a bailout for Ireland or
Portugal trash the bonds of Europe’s peripheral countries.  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Spanish 10-year
bonds over German bunds jumped as much as 34 basis points this
week to 229, nearing June’s euro-era record of 232 basis points.
The risk premiums for Ireland and Portugal soared to record
highs of 652 and 484 basis points, respectively.  Collapsing bond values make it harder for Ireland and
Portugal to sell new debt, and leave Spain vulnerable to similar
attacks, according to analysts including  Phyllis Reed , head of
bond research at Kleinwort Benson Private Bank in London.
Shoring up the finances of an economy that is 12 percent of the
euro region and more than three times Portugal and Ireland
combined would strain the 750 billion-euro ($1 trillion)
lifeline set up to stop contagion from Greece’s near default in
May.  “There’s a perception that once you start down the path
with one country, the others have to follow, at least the market
will interpret it that way,” said Reed. Investors “won’t be
able to help themselves, whether it’s right or not,” she said.  Portugal and Ireland requesting aid from the European
Financial Stability Fund won’t stop the spread of the crisis,
and the European Central Bank should take pre-emptive action to
stem the fallout by buying Spanish bonds in secondary markets,
 Jacques Cailloux , chief European economist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in London, wrote in a note to investors.  ‘Time to Act’  There are “growing signs that the contagion is spreading
to the larger economies with Spain lining up next,” he said.
“Now is the time to act.”  The surge in Spain’s risk premium is having an immediate
effect on its financing costs as the country has more debt to
sell by the end of the year than most of the other peripheral
countries. While Portugal held its final bond sale Nov. 10 and
Ireland says it is fully funded until the middle of next year,
Spain still has to sell 12 billion euros of bonds in the three
remaining auctions this year,  Chiara Cremonesi , a fixed income
strategist at UniCredit Bank AG in London estimates.  The jump in borrowing costs accelerated after German
Chancellor Angela Merkel said on Oct. 29 that bondholders should
contribute to the cost of future euro-area crises and possible
restructurings. The proposal is part of talks to create a
permanent European debt-crisis mechanism once the EFSF expires
in 2013.  Default Insurance  As Portugal and Ireland’s three-year borrowing costs have
risen to 6 percent and more than 8 percent respectively,
compared with the rate of about 5 percent Greece pays on its
emergency European Union loans of the same maturity,
expectations are growing that one or both may turn to the fund
for help.  The cost of insuring Irish debt against default fell 1.5
basis points to 595.6, hovering near the record close of 598
basis points on Nov. 8. Credit-default swaps on Portugal rose 6
basis points to a record 480.32. Spain’s credit-default swaps
rose 1.7 basis to close at a record 279.9 basis points,
according to data provider CMA.  Irish bonds rose for the first day in 14 today after
European finance ministers said plans for a new system to handle
euro-region sovereign crises won’t apply to outstanding debt and
Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero said Spain
opposes the new measures proposed by Germany.  Spanish 10-year bonds fell for a 14th straight day, while
the yield spread over Germany narrowed two basis points to 218.  ‘Different Story’  Spanish banks and pension funds have increased their
holdings of Spanish bonds, helping limit the impact of any
exodus of foreign investors, according to the Treasury. While
Irish banks hold 8 percent of Ireland’s public debt and domestic
lenders hold 11 percent of Portuguese debt, the equivalent
figure in Spain is 48 percent, the Irish debt agency said in
October, using estimates based on surveys.  That domestic support is underpinning the Spanish market,
said  Gianluca Salford , a fixed income strategist at JP Morgan
Chase in London.  “We now expect Ireland to go to the EFSF eventually in
2011 and that will have a widening impact on Spanish spreads,”
he said. “But we don’t expect Spain to go there: it’s a very
different story in terms of fiscal deficit, banking sector
stress and domestic support for the bond market.”  Deficit Cuts  Spain’s commercial banks haven’t needed government
bailouts, and the cost of supporting the regional savings banks
was around 12 billion euros, or 1 percent of GDP. The burden of
bailing out Irish banks will send the nation’s budget deficit to
32 percent of GDP this year. Spanish lenders, which were shut
out of international capital markets earlier this year, have
returned with Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA and Banco
Santander SA selling debt.  Finance Minister Elena Salgado said in Seoul yesterday that
there’s “no risk” to Spain’s ability to sell debt.  Spain is also cutting its deficit more quickly than Greece,
Ireland or Portugal, as it slashes public wages and increases
tax. The central government’s deficit -- excluding the regional
administrations that control health and education --- fell 42
percent in the first nine months, compared with 31 percent in
Greece and a widening shortfall in Portugal.  ‘Most Austere’  While Spain’s economic indicators are “much better,” and
its deficit plans “among the most austere,” that may not be
enough to calm investors if Portugal and Ireland are pushed
toward a bailout, said  Camille Viros , an economist at Barclays
Wealth in London.  “If Portugal and Ireland do end up needing European help,
the focus of investors could turn to Spain,” she said. “It
could be that the fundamentals wouldn’t be enough to reassure
markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma Ross-Thomas  in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  