-- Spanish Economy Stalled in Third Quarter as Austerity Undermines Growth
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2010-11-11T09:13:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/spanish-economy-stalled-in-third-quarter-as-austerity-undermines-growth.html
Spain’s  economy  stalled in the third
quarter as the deepest austerity measures in three decades,
aimed at taming the euro region’s third-biggest budget deficit,
undermined the recovery from an almost two-year recession.  Gross domestic product  was unchanged from the previous
three months after two quarters of expansion, the  National
Statistics Institute  in Madrid said, confirming a Nov. 5
estimate by the Bank of Spain. From a year earlier, the economy
expanded 0.2 percent, the first annual increase in two years.  Spain’s Socialist government is implementing the deepest
 budget cuts  since at least 1980, including wage reductions and
tax increases, to stem a surge in borrowing costs and slash the
deficit by half in two years. Efforts to contain the shortfall
and restore growth may come under renewed pressure as the extra
yield investors demand to hold  Spanish  debt rather than German
equivalents approaches a euro-era record.  “The size of the fiscal tightening is really huge and that
will have a very strong negative impact on the economy,
especially next year as there’s still a lot of tightening in the
pipeline,” said  Martin van Vliet , senior euro-region economist
at ING Bank in Amsterdam. “Spain isn’t out of the woods yet.”  Surging Yields  After  Irish  borrowing costs rose to a euro-era record, the
 Spanish  spread widened to 215 basis points at 9:30 a.m. in
Madrid from 206 basis points yesterday. That compares with an
intraday euro-era high of 232 basis points on June 17. The extra
yield on Portuguese 10-year bonds rose to 474 basis points from
460 basis points.  Today’s data highlight the divergence between robust growth
in Germany, Europe’s biggest economy, and a continued slump in
smaller euro-region countries such as Spain. The stagnation in
Spain, which has the highest  unemployment  rate in Europe at 20.8
percent, comes as German GDP is expected to expand 0.8 percent
in the third quarter, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  Diageo Plc , the world’s largest spirits maker, said on Oct.
14 that sales in Spain fell “markedly” in the three months
through Sept. 30 from a year earlier, even as total revenue
increased. Madrid-based  Telefonica SA , Europe’s second-largest
phone company, said today third-quarter sales fell 3.6 percent
in Spain as revenue in the rest of Europe and Latin America
expanded.  “It still feels like a recession in Spain and that’s
connected to unemployment,” van Vliet said.  Consumption  Spanish household spending surged 2 percent from a year
earlier in the second quarter as consumers brought forward
purchases before value-added tax rose in July. Government
subsidies for car purchases also expired in the third quarter,
prompting a 26.9 percent annual decline in new car
registrations, a proxy for sales, in September. A universal tax
rebate on mortgage payments expires in January in a measure
aimed at encouraging home purchases this year.  Spain’s government, which expects GDP to fall 0.3 percent
in 2010 in a second year of contraction, slashed public workers’
pay by 5 percent in June and raised value-added tax to 18
percent from 16 percent on July 1. The measures, passed as
contagion from Greece’s debt crisis swept through the southern
euro region in May, aim to cut the deficit to 6 percent of GDP
in 2011 from 11.1 percent last year.  2011 Forecast  Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  has repeatedly ruled out any
contraction in quarterly  GDP  this year after the economy emerged
from a recession in the first quarter. The government forecasts
unemployment, at 19.8 percent in the third quarter, will fall to
19.3 percent in 2011. It sees growth of 1.3 percent next year.  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA , Spain’s second-biggest
bank, revised its GDP  forecasts  for Spain last week to project
growth of 0.9 percent next year, half as fast as Germany and
below the 1.2 percent it sees for the euro region.  Support for Prime Minister  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero  has
been eroded by the doubling of the  jobless  rate since the 2007
peak of Spain’s building boom and the austerity measures. The
opposition People’s Party has a 9.8 percentage-point lead over
his Socialist party, a poll published in La Vanguardia on Oct.
31 showed.  The National Statistics Institute is scheduled to publish a
breakdown of third-quarter GDP estimate on Nov. 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma Ross-Thomas  in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  