-- Sri Lanka's Interest Rates at `Appropriate' Level, Governor Cabraal Says
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2010-11-11T05:13:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/sri-lanka-s-interest-rates-at-appropriate-level-governor-cabraal-says.html
Sri Lanka’s interest rates are at an
“appropriate” level, central bank Governor  Ajith Nivard Cabraal 
said, signaling he may hold off on raising borrowing costs next
week even as the economy accelerates.  Inflation is within policy makers’ targets and that may
reduce the risk of interest-rate changes, Cabraal, 55, said in
an interview in Singapore today. Sri Lanka’s $42 billion economy,
which has been performing better than policy makers had expected,
may  expand  as much as 8 percent in 2010 and 2011 as agriculture
and tourism grow, he said.  If inflation “behaves the way we intended it to behave,
and I don’t see why it should not, then the policy rates seem to
be reasonable in that scenario,” Cabraal said. “We think that
our current regime is appropriate but we will keep a close tab
on things as they unfold.”  The  central bank  kept its benchmark interest rates
unchanged last month after reducing borrowing costs in July and
August to support growth. Since President  Mahinda Rajapaksa ’s
government ended the island’s 26-year civil war by defeating the
Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam in May 2009, the prospect of
peace and economic revival have prompted companies including
Emirates Telecommunications Corp. to invest in the island.  Cabraal has slashed rates even as counterparts from India
to Malaysia and Thailand raised their benchmarks this year to
counter price pressures or the risk of asset bubbles.  Oil Prices  “I don’t really see too much of a risk of rates changing,
but at the same time, we would be watching very closely the oil
prices, which are escalating,” Cabraal said. “There is the
growth momentum which we have to keep an eye on and local price
movements that are taking place.”  The  reverse repurchase rate  is 9 percent, the lowest level
since November 2004, and the  repurchase rate  is 7.25 percent.
The central bank will release its next monetary policy decision
on Nov. 16.  Consumer prices  in the capital, Colombo, rose 6.6 percent
in October from a year earlier, the biggest increase in eight
months, because of higher prices for bread, rice and sugar.
Inflation will be less than 6 percent by the end of 2010,
Cabraal said today.  Inflation may be at the lower end of the 4 percent-to-6
percent range projected for next year, Cabraal said.  The nation plans to ease foreign-exchange rules that will
make it easier for Sri Lanka companies including insurers to
invest overseas, Cabraal said today. The changes will also
encourage foreign companies to invest in Sri Lanka, he said.  Sri Lanka will narrow its budget deficit to about 6.8
percent of gross domestic product in 2011, from 8 percent of GDP
this year, Cabraal said. The shortfall may be between 5 percent
and 6 percent by 2012, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  