-- Obama Business Tax Break May Cut $20 Billion From State Revenue
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2010-11-11T17:56:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/states-may-lose-out-on-20-billion-in-obama-s-proposed-business-tax-break.html
President  Barack Obama ’s proposed
tax break to encourage businesses to buy equipment may cost
states $20 billion, adding pressure to governments struggling to
close deficits, a report found.  Obama wants to allow companies through 2011 to deduct the
full cost of capital investments in the year the expenses are
made, rather than spreading write-offs across several years.
That would hurt states whose tax codes model the federal
government’s, said the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities,
which advocates on behalf of poor and moderate-income Americans.  “This loss would come on top of states’ record revenue
losses resulting from the recession,” the Washington research
group wrote in a  report  today. “The additional state revenue
losses resulting from the proposal would make it necessary for
states to enact additional budget cuts or tax increases, which
would reduce the proposal’s overall stimulative effect.”  States are likely to have $130 billion less than they need
to pay their bills in the next budget year, which starts in July
for most, the center said. While tax collections have
stabilized, they have yet to rebound to pre-recession levels.  Obama’s proposal, which Congress would have to approve, is
designed to stoke the economy by encouraging companies to spend
some of the $1.85 trillion they had  on hand  at the end of the
second quarter. The Treasury Department estimates the plan will
accelerate $150 billion in tax breaks to 2 million businesses.  The White House didn’t immediately respond to a request for
comment.  States Follow Suit  The proposal may cost states, which generally use the
federal definition of taxable income when calculating how much
individuals and corporations owe in local taxes, the center
said. As a result, when the federal government allows
deductions, state revenue drops as well.  Twenty-four states automatically change their definition of
taxable income to conform to the federal government’s, according
to the report. Another 22 update it every year to reflect
federal changes.  “If the expensing proposal is enacted, economically
significant corporations can be expected to bring considerable
political pressure to bear on their state legislators and
governors to conform state tax laws to the expanded federal
deduction for equipment purchase,” the center wrote.  While about 85 percent of the state revenue loss would be
recouped because the immediate write-offs would replace those of
later years, it would present a strain through 2013, the center
said.  New York faces the biggest loss, an estimated $3 billion,
according to the center. New Jersey may lose $1.4 billion, with
Illinois and Pennsylvania facing drops of $1.3 billion and $1.1
billion respectively, according to the center’s estimates.
California, one of governments hardest hit by the recession, has
its own depreciation rules and so is unlikely to be affected,
the center said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 William Selway  in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  