-- Stiglitz Sees Bubble Risk in Emerging Markets as Fed Expands U.S. Stimulus
-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 2010-11-11T07:43:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/stiglitz-sees-bubble-risk-in-emerging-markets-as-fed-expands-u-s-stimulus.html
The U.S. Federal Reserve’s plan to
expand stimulus will fuel potential asset bubbles in emerging
countries with strong growth that don’t have capital control
measures, Nobel Prize laureate  Joseph Stiglitz  said.  “I do have worries on countries like India,” Stiglitz, a
Columbia University economics professor, said today at a
conference in Hong Kong. “The strong economies that don’t yet
have capital control become the focal point for all this money.”  Monetary easing to spur growth in developed economies has
sparked inflows of cash to Asia, threatening to propel higher
prices for stocks, real estate and consumer goods. Asian nations
may need capital control steps to curb the risk of asset bubbles
forming due to the Fed’s easing, World Bank Managing Director
 Sri Mulyani Indrawati  said this month.  Stiglitz said he is “not so worried about China,” because
policy makers there are already concerned about the risk of
property-price bubbles and they could use policy tools to cool
the market in the world’s fastest-growing major economy.  The Fed said Nov. 3 it will buy an additional $600 billion
of Treasuries to boost growth in the world’s largest economy.  Fragmenting Market  While the latest round of easing is “not likely to
strengthen the U.S. economy very much,” it would “cause problems
all over the world,” Stiglitz said. Responses from other
countries include “exchange-rate intervention, capital control
and taxes and so forth that are fragmenting the global capital
market,” he said.  Growth in the advanced countries will slow to 2.2 percent
next year, while the economies of developing Asia, including
China and India, will expand 8.4 percent, according to
International Monetary Fund estimates in October. Stiglitz said
he sees “surprisingly strong growth” in Asia and a “long period”
of slow expansions in the U.S. and Japan.  “Real estate investment and green investment would be an
important part of an answer of how Asia would be able to
maintain growth even though the traditional markets remain
relatively weak,” he said. China’s investment in infrastructure
is boosting economic growth in the long run and its rebound from
the global financial crisis is an “impressive success story,”
Stiglitz said.  Liquidity Flowing  India’s central bank raised interest rates for a sixth time
this year on Nov. 2 to cool inflation, and that shows the bank
is “concerned about asset price bubbles developing and the
prospect of quantitative-easing liquidity flowing into real
estate,” Credit Suisse Group AG said.  In China,  property prices  rose at the slowest pace in 10
months in October after the government raised interest rates and
expanded measures to limit the risk of asset bubbles, including
suspending mortgages for third-home purchases.  China should introduce property taxes to sustain the income
of local governments, instead of relying on land sales, Stiglitz
said. The nation would also need to develop public housing to
stabilize the home market, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sophie Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  