-- Stiglitz Says Ireland Has Bleak Prospect of Cutting Deficit, Saving Banks
-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g   a n d   R i s h a a d   S a l a m a t
-- 2010-11-11T12:28:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/stiglitz-says-ireland-has-bleak-prospect-of-cutting-deficit-saving-banks.html
Nobel laureate  Joseph Stiglitz  said
Ireland is in a “dismal” position and there is little chance
that the government’s measures to reduce the budget and bail out
banks will be a success.  “The austerity measures are weakening the economy, their
approach to bank resolution is disappointing,” Stiglitz, a
Columbia University economics professor, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview in Hong Kong today. “The prospect of
success is very, very bleak” for the government’s plan to
resolve the problem, he said.  Irish bonds have plunged in the past month on investor
concern the government will have to turn to the European Union
and International Monetary Fund for aid. Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  has said Ireland won’t need external help and central
bank governor  Patrick Honohan  said yesterday he expects the
government to be able to return to the bond market next year.  Ireland has since 2000 seen “a property bubble and
excessive expansion of the financial system, fake growth is all
you can call it,” Stiglitz said. “It is not a surprise to see
a spiking of the spreads between the interest rate that Ireland
has to pay and Germany’s.”  The  premium  investors charge to hold Irish 10-year bonds
rather than benchmark German bunds widened to a record 651 basis
points today. That compares with 422 basis points a month ago.  Ireland had the highest euro-region budget deficit in 2009,
at 14.4 percent of gross domestic product, followed by Spain and
Portugal, the EU’s statistic office said Oct. 22.  ‘Problem’  Stiglitz also said that one reason for the “bleak”
prospect for Irish budgetary success is that the “authority
that helped create the problem stayed in power.” Ireland’s
ruling Fianna Fail party, led by Prime Minister  Brian Cowen ,
dropped to its lowest level of support last month, according to
a Red C poll published by the Sunday Business Post newspaper on
Oct. 24. The party has been in power since 1997.  The economics professor said the uneven pace of economic
growth between Asian and advanced economies has created a
“divided world” on inflation. Inflation “won’t be the major
problem” for most advanced economies like the euro region and
the U.S., whereas it is a “concern” for Asian policy makers,
he said.  The U.S. Federal Reserve’s plan to expand stimulus will
lower the dollar’s value and fuel potential asset bubbles in
emerging countries, which may drive up commodity prices and hurt
the U.S. economy in a “backfire,” Stiglitz said.,  “The U.S. could wind up in the position of stagflation,”
Stiglitz said. “We are facing higher commodity prices -- at the
same time, we have weak aggregate demand in U.S.”  China raised reserve requirements for some banks twice
yesterday, taking the total increase to 100 basis points for a
few lenders, said two people with direct knowledge of the
situation. Chinese  inflation  accelerated to the fastest pace in
two years in October.  China will likely further tighten policy by quantitative
tools like the reserve requirement ratios for banks, rather than
raising interest rates, Stiglitz said.  “If you raise the interest rates to dampen on the economy,
you could get inflow of capital,” he said. “That could make
things worse.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sophie Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net ;
 Rishaad Salamat  in Hong Kong at  rishaad@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  