-- Stupidest Lawsuit Ever Has Us Suing Ourselves: Jonathan Weil
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2010-11-11T02:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/stupidest-lawsuit-ever-has-us-suing-ourselves-commentary-by-jonathan-weil.html
Of all the absurdities to emerge
from the government’s never-ending bailout of the U.S. financial
system, here’s a new one that’s hard to top: The government,
through  Freddie Mac , in effect is now suing itself.  Never let it be said that Bailout Nation doesn’t have a
sense of humor. It would be only a slight hyperbole to say this
may be the stupidest lawsuit ever.  Here’s what happened. In July the Internal Revenue Service
told Freddie Mac, the congressionally chartered housing
financier, that it owed $3 billion of back taxes and penalties
for the years 1998 through 2005. Rather than pay up, the McLean,
Virginia-based company sued the IRS on Oct. 22 in  U.S. Tax Court 
to contest its claims.  Before Freddie Mac could do that, it had to seek written
permission from its conservator, the  Federal Housing Finance
Agency . FHFA, whose mandate is supposed to include looking out
for taxpayers, consented. Freddie Mac disclosed the  suit  last
week in a  footnote  to its third-quarter financial report.  Talk about biting the hand that feeds you. Here we have a
government-sponsored enterprise -- which depends on Treasury’s
financial support to remain solvent -- suing an arm of the
Treasury Department. Some thanks this is. To date, Treasury has
injected about $64 billion into Freddie Mac and collected $8.4
billion of cash dividends on its senior preferred stock in the
company.  The Treasury Department also holds a warrant to buy 79.9
percent of the company’s common stock for a nominal price. So
Freddie Mac can’t claim it’s simply protecting shareholders by
taking on the IRS. Under its conservatorship, the company’s
board answers only to the FHFA, which has complete authority
over Freddie Mac’s affairs.  Lawyers Win  The details of the tax dispute are beside the point. No
matter how the case turns out, the result more or less should
wind up being a wash for taxpayers. The only people who stand to
make money from the litigation are Freddie Mac’s outside
attorneys at  Shearman & Sterling .  Consider some possible scenarios. If the IRS loses, that
would be a win for taxpayers in the sense that Treasury won’t
need to send as much bailout money to  Freddie Mac  in the future.
Yet the public also would lose because the government wouldn’t
get its $3 billion of revenue.  Alternatively, if the IRS wins, it would be a victory for
taxpayers, too. Of course, they would still lose because Freddie
Mac would have an even bigger capital hole after paying the $3
billion. The Treasury then would have to inject more  money  into
the company to keep it from becoming insolvent and falling into
mandatory receivership.  Matter of Principle  An IRS spokesman, Eric Smith, declined to comment. So did
 Robert Rudnick , a partner at Shearman & Sterling in Washington.
 Corinne Russell , an FHFA spokeswoman, declined to comment when I
asked why the agency gave Freddie Mac permission to sue the IRS.
FHFA’s acting director,  Edward DeMarco , didn’t return phone
calls.  A Freddie Mac spokeswoman,  Sharon McHale , cast the
company’s decision to sue the IRS in terms of principle.  “We believe that we did not in prior years have federal
tax deficiencies and that we are not liable for any penalties,”
she said. Freddie Mac, she added, “has an obligation to run the
company according to the laws of the land. And in an instance
where we believe we’re in the right, we believe we have an
obligation to assert that.”  No Call  OK, fine. But shouldn’t it also have been the job of
someone in the government to exercise some common sense here?
Surely the head of FHFA could have picked up the phone and
called someone at Treasury to work out a truce. Or, if that
wasn’t possible, FHFA could have told Freddie Mac to pay its IRS
bill, tap Treasury for more bailout money, and stop ringing up
legal fees.  For what it’s worth, I checked the disclosures at Freddie
Mac’s cousin, Fannie Mae, which also was seized by the
government in 2008. Fannie Mae reached a  settlement  with the IRS
over its tax returns for 1999 through 2004. Score one for cooler
heads.  Freddie Mac said in its latest quarterly report that “it
is reasonably possible” the company will reach a settlement
with the IRS within the next 12 months. We can only hope.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  