-- Swap Spreads Widen on Bets Fed Will Spur Inflation, Bianco's Simons Says
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2010-11-11T20:28:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/swap-spreads-widen-on-bets-fed-will-spur-inflation-bianco-s-simons-says.html
The Federal Reserve’s decision to
buy $600 billion more in Treasuries through June has helped
boost demand to exchange floating-rate obligations for fixed-
rates, leading to a widening of swap spreads on concern
inflation will accelerate, according to Bianco Research LLC.  Treasury two-year note  yields  fell to a record low of
0.3118 percent on Nov. 4, the day after the Fed announced its
decision to buy Treasuries and said “subdued inflation trends,
and stable inflation expectations, are likely to warrant
exceptionally low levels for the federal funds rate for an
extended period.” The central bank has held borrowing costs at
almost zero since December 2008 to help stimulate the economy.  The  two-year swap spread , or the difference between the
rate to exchange the payment streams and the Treasury yield,
widened by 9.06 basis points, or 0.0906 percentage point, to
30.24 basis points at 3:15 p.m. in New York. It was the biggest
advance on a closing basis since May 24.  “The risk-reward of waiting for a move down isn’t very
good” with Treasury yields, said  Howard Simons , an analyst at
Bianco Research in Chicago. “If you’re not going to move to
fixed-rates now, when are you going to do it? We’ve pushed
interest rates down as far down as we can, and this might be a
good time.”  Consumer prices excluding food and energy rose 0.7 percent
for the year ended in October, matching the lowest rate of core
inflation on record reached in 1961, according to the median
forecast of 17 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey. The report
from the Labor Department is due Nov. 17.  Break-Even Rate  The gap between 10-year yields for conventional Treasuries
and securities indexed to the rate of inflation has widened to
2.18 percentage points, near the highest since May, from 1.51
percentage points Aug. 24, as investors speculated the central
bank would adopt policies that will stimulate the economy. The
gap between the two yields, known as the break-even inflation
rate, represents the forecast of bond traders for the rate of
inflation during the life of the debt.  “If the Fed’s moves work, shouldn’t it start to push
upward pressure on interest rates?” Simons asked. “If you go
out and bang a drum and say, ‘I’m trying to raise inflationary
expectations,’ pretty soon people are going to take you at your
word.”  The 10-year swap spread was unchanged at 15.25 basis points
today, widening from minus 4.25 basis points on Sept. 7. The 10-
year  swap spread  turned negative for the first time on March 23
on concern that  record borrowing  by the U.S. government would
lead to waning demand for Treasury securities.  ‘Moves Up Fast’  When the yield on the  10-year note  “starts to lift off the
bottom, nobody wants it,” Simons said. The yield moves up
“pretty rapidly when they move because, all of a sudden, the
bond guys decide they can’t be long duration, and they have to
shorten in. There’s no other side of the trade, so it moves up
fast.”  Duration is a measure of the sensitivity of bond prices to
fluctuations in interest rates.  Two-year swap spreads spiked upward in April and May,
rising to 52.25 basis points on May 24, from 15.06 basis points
on April 20, on concern the credit quality of European banks was
deteriorating.  Swap spreads have widened in Europe, but not as sharply,
indicating bank credit risk concern is not the culprit, Simons
said. “You don’t need the European situation” to justify wider
spreads, he said.  The European two-year swap spread widened 3.77 basis points
to 69.30 basis points today. The spread has increased by about 9
basis points this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Kruger  in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  