-- Swaziland to Offer Packages for Encourage State Workers to Retire at 45
-- B y   V u y i s i l e   H l a t s h w a y o
-- 2010-11-11T12:33:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/swaziland-to-offer-packages-for-encourage-state-workers-to-retire-at-45.html
Swaziland will offer civil servants
“attractive” incentives to retire at 45 years to help cut the
state wage bill, said  Mtiti Fakudze , the minister of public
service.  An improved package to encourage workers to leave before 60
comes after the release of a four-year government program to
reduce spending, Fakudze said today in an interview in the
capital, Mbabane.  “Many people want to leave because of many reasons
including health-related reasons,” he said. “We are providing
them with a better opportunity to leave the civil service
early.”  Swaziland, which borders South Africa, announced a program
last month to freeze public servant salaries and cut 7,000 jobs,
while increasing excise duties and other taxes. The budget
deficit may widen to 16 percent of gross domestic product this
financial year from 7.1 percent because of less income from the
Southern African Customs Union and an increase in state wages
earlier this year, the International Monetary Fund said
yesterday.  The early retirement option will be given to civil servants
who have be working for more than 10 years, Fakudze said. It is
still finalizing details of the package, he said.  Swaziland, whose 1.2 million people are ruled by  King Mswati III , is one of the countries worst affected by AIDS, with
an estimated HIV prevalence rate of 26 percent for people 15-49
years old, according to the Central Statistics Office. Life-
expectancy is 43 years, it said.  Income from SACU, which shares customs revenue among South
Africa, Botswana, Namibia, Lesotho and Swaziland, has dropped
because of a decline in trade during the global economic crisis.
The union is also negotiating a new revenue-sharing formula that
may reduce the income earned by its smaller members. SACU money
accounts for more than half of Swaziland’s budget revenue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vuyisile Hlatshwayo in Mbabane via Johannesburg at
   gbell16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 