-- Swiss Investors' Structured Product Holdings Fall to Lowest in Five Years
-- B y   S a r f r a z   T h i n d
-- 2010-11-11T12:52:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/swiss-investors-structured-product-holdings-fall-to-lowest-in-five-years.html
Exchange-traded structured products
make up the lowest share of Swiss investor portfolios in five
years, according to the  Swiss Structured Products Association .  Listed structured products held as part of banks’ client
deposits shrank to 204 billion Swiss francs ($210 billion) in
August, the latest month for which data is available, the
association said yesterday. This makes up 4.81 percent of
investors’ assets, the lowest monthly level since 2005.  The association tracks data from  Scoach  Switzerland, part
of the pan-European structured products exchange that includes
markets in Frankfurt and Stuttgart.  The proportion of structured products held in private bank
accounts in Switzerland has fallen from a monthly average of 6.5
percent in 2008. The decline follows a reclassification of
structured products by the Swiss National Bank in May and
investor wariness to complex products and counterparty risk
after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse two years ago.  “Some of it is down to a statistical reclassification of
products and you’ve also seen a reduction as, since Lehman, some
clients haven’t renewed their interest in the market,” said
 Daniel Sandmeier , the Zurich-based head of structured products
marketing and distribution at Credit Suisse Group AG, and
president of the Swiss Structured Product Association.  The Swiss central bank reclassified products issued under
euro medium-term note programs as non-structured securities. The
change caused a 5 percent drop in structured-note holdings to
208 billion francs in June from the previous month, according to
the association.  Trading Declines  Structured note trading on other Scoach markets also
declined this year. Stuttgart Stock Exchange handled 37 billion
euros ($51 billion) of securitized derivatives, including
warrants, in the first nine months, compared with 42 billion
euros in the same period last year and 102 billion euros for
2008. In Frankfurt, 15 billion euros of structured securities
traded as of October, down from 16 billion euros in 2009.  Sandmeier said trading in the over-the-counter market could
be a multiple of the exchange-traded business in Switzerland.  Structured note sales in Europe stand at $89 billion this
year, $13 billion less than last year’s record low for all of
2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg that excludes
equity-linked products.  Structured notes are securities created by banks, which
package debt with derivatives to offer customized bets to
investors while earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are
contracts whose value is derived from stocks, bonds, currencies
and commodities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarfraz Thind  in London at 
 Sthind3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  