-- U.K. Unemployed Who Refuse Work Will Lose Welfare Payments
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2010-11-11T12:45:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/u-k-unemployed-who-refuse-work-may-lose-welfare-for-up-to-three-years.html
Unemployed people  in Britain who
refuse a job face losing welfare payments for as long as three
years under the biggest changes to state benefits since the
system was created more than six decades ago.  Work and Pensions Secretary  Iain Duncan Smith  gave details
of his plans to Parliament today. They include the introduction
of a “universal credit” to replace the current system of
separate payments to cover costs from housing to child care. The
credit will taper off as incomes rise with the aim that
recipients will always be better off taking a job.  “Our reforms are about reconnecting with that group parked
out of sight from the rest of us,” Duncan Smith said in a
speech in London. “We want them to be able to seize the
opportunity for work as the economy grows. Even today there are
around 450,000 vacancies in the economy.”  Britain is seeking to cut its  welfare bill , which accounts
for more than a quarter of government spending, to help
eliminate the  record budget deficit . Almost a fifth of U.K.
households had no one in work in 2009,  government figures  show.  “In prosperous times this dependency culture would be
unsustainable but today it’s a national crisis,” Duncan Smith
said.  Community Work  Those who turn down work, refuse to apply for a suitable
job or fail to take part in mandatory community work will lose
their unemployment benefit, worth 65 pounds ($105) a week, first
for three months, then for six months, and on the third occasion
for three years.  “If people can work and they are offered work, they’ll be
expected to take it,” Prime Minister  David Cameron  said in an
e-mailed statement. “This is the deal. Break that deal and
they’ll lose their unemployment benefit. If you can work, then a
life on benefits is no longer for you.”  Britain’s welfare state sprang from a 1942 report by
economist William Beveridge, who identified five “Giant Evils”
in society -- squalor, ignorance, want, idleness and disease --
and proposed the state take responsibility for tackling them.  It led, after the end of World War II, to the introduction
of the National Health Service and a system of “social
security” designed to care for people “from the cradle to the
grave,” including both unemployment payments and pensions.  Liverpool, Glasgow  Last year there were 3.8 million workless households, and
in three areas of the country, Liverpool, Nottingham and
Glasgow, almost one in three households had no one with a job,
the Office for National Statistics said in a report published
Nov. 4. The government says its new credit will cut the number
by 300,000.  Five million people in Britain claim out-of-work benefits
and 1.4 million have been receiving benefits for nine of the
last 10 years, the government estimates. In the three months
through September, more than a third of the 2.6 million people
looking for work had been unemployed for more than a year.  The main opposition Labour Party said that while it backs
the principles behind the government’s changes, more needs to be
done to create jobs.  “We support much of what the government is doing but it’s
vital they spend more time making sure there are jobs available
for people around the country,”  Douglas Alexander , who speaks
for the party on work and pensions, told Sky News. “Without
jobs you can’t move people from welfare into work.”  ‘Downward Spiral’  The plans have also drawn criticism from church leaders.  Archbishop of Canterbury Rowan Williams, the senior
Anglican cleric, said Nov. 7 the proposals were unfair and could
drive people struggling to find work “further into a downward
spiral of uncertainty, even despair.”  Duncan Smith said the majority of jobs created under the
Labour governments between 1997 and 2010 were taken by foreign
nationals because British people didn’t have the incentives to
take them.  “We created over 4 million jobs in those 13 years and we
still had 4 1/2 million people without work,” Duncan Smith told
BBC Radio 4’s “Today” show. “Seventy percent of those net
jobs were taken by people from overseas because people in this
country were not capable or able to take those jobs. That’s the
sin, that’s the problem.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in Seoul at  rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas Penny  in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 