-- U.K. Regulator Adopts Mobile-Phone Taping Rules Over Protests From Banks
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2010-11-11T13:12:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/u-k-regulator-adopts-mobile-phone-taping-rules-over-protests-from-banks.html
The U.K. financial regulator adopted
rules to record traders’ mobile-phone calls over the opposition
of banks that said the cost of implementing the measures may
cost at least 10,000 pounds ($16,000) a phone every year.  The  Financial Services Authority  today said “relevant
communications made with, sent from or received on mobile phones
and other handheld” devices must be recorded and stored for six
months. The rules apply to devices issued for business purposes
and firms must take “reasonable steps” to ensure the
conversations don’t migrate to private devices.  One investment bank told the FSA that it would cost 500,000
pounds monitor the calls of 50 users. Another global investment
bank said the cost of recording BlackBerrys issued to front-
office staff would be more than 2.6 million pounds a year, the
FSA said.  “Many respondents’ argued that the benefits will not
materialize as a result of individuals circumventing the
rules,” the FSA  said  today. “It is true that determined and
inventive individuals will always find ways to evade the rule.
It is our contention that by having as comprehensive a taping
regime as possible we limit the scope or temptation for
employees to infringe the market abuse rules on fixed or mobile
lines which are not taped.”  Galleon Case  The FSA is increasing efforts to prosecute insider trading
after criticism from lawmakers that it wasn’t doing enough to
prevent the crime. The U.S. insider-trading case against Galleon
Group LLC’s chief executive officer,  Raj Rajaratnam , was brought
using evidence in part from mobile-phone conversations the
government got permission to wiretap.  “By taping these previously unrecorded lines, we have an
additional source of evidence to draw on which our experience
shows can be of significant value to our investigative and
enforcement work,” the FSA said today.  The FSA has convicted six people of insider trading since
March 2009, including a March guilty verdict against  Malcolm Calvert , a former partner at JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Cazenove
unit. Calvert served about a third of a 21-month sentence before
being released this year.  “We continue to work to keep undesirable people out of our
financial services industry,” FSA enforcement chief  Margaret Cole  said in a speech earlier this week. “We use information
and intelligence from a range of sources to consider whether
those who own or run financial firms, as well as people in
sensitive roles within those businesses, are ‘fit and proper.’”  The FSA, facing dissolution by 2012,  is lobbying  for its
enforcement unit to become part a proposed Consumer Protection
and Markets Authority. Along with the independent CPMA, the U.K.
plans to create a Prudential Regulatory Authority at the Bank of
England to oversee financial regulation.  The new rules will be effective from Nov. 14, 2011, the FSA
said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nandini Sukumar  in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 