-- SEC Asked to End S&P's `Chilling' Fees for Security ID Numbers
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2010-11-11T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/u-s-regulator-asked-to-end-s-p-s-chilling-fees-for-security-id-numbers.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission should limit fees that Standard & Poor’s charges for
identification numbers for bonds and other instruments, three
financial groups said yesterday in a letter.  S&P, the credit-rating unit of  McGraw-Hill Cos. , charges
from $10,000 to “hundreds of thousands” for so-called Cusip
numbers, said the  Bond  Dealers of America, the  Investment
Adviser Association  and the  Government Finance Officers
Association . They sent the letter to SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro 
saying the agency should “reduce burdens,” and issued a press
release today.  S&P runs the American Bankers Association’s Cusip Service
Bureau, which assigns the numbers to securities and charges
licensing fees for their use. Often those fees get passed to
investors, according to the release.  The bureau’s “insistence on charging increasing and non-
transparent fees is having a chilling effect on market
transparency and the free flow of information for investing,
trading, accounting risk management and regulatory reporting,”
 Mike Nicholas , chief executive officer of the bond dealers
group, said in a prepared statement.  Market regulators often require the numbers. Bond dealers
and investment advisers use them for trade confirmations,
account statements and electronic databases, and municipal-bond
issuers use them in official statements, the letter said. S&P
has been setting fees for their use “without any publicly
stated rationale,” and charges even when firms use the numbers
to track securities internally, according to the letter.  ‘Fair, Reasonable’  The letter is inaccurate and misleading, said  Michael Privitera , a spokesman for S&P, which hadn’t seen the document.
S&P’s licensing and charging practices “are transparent and in
line with data provider industry norms and based on fair,
reasonable and non-discriminatory terms,” he said in an e-mail.  John Heine,  an SEC spokesman, declined to comment.  Last year,  S&P  received a European Union antitrust
complaint claiming that it unfairly charges licensing fees for
the numbers. The  European Commission  in Brussels said in a
statement Nov. 19, 2009, that its preliminary view was that
“this behavior amounts to unfair pricing and constitutes an
infringement” of EU rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Darrell Preston  in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  