-- U.S. `Will Never Waver' on South Korean Defense, Obama Says in Troop Visit
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2010-11-11T01:53:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/u-s-will-never-waver-on-south-korean-defense-obama-says-in-troop-visit.html
President  Barack Obama  said the U.S.
“will never waver” in its commitment to defend South Korea as
he visited with U.S. troops in the capital Seoul and marked
Veterans Day.  Obama, who is attending the Group of 20 summit in the city,
criticized North Korea for continuing to follow “a path of
confrontation and provocation” and called on the nation to
reject its nuclear weapons program.  “The United States will never waver in our commitment to
the security of the Republic of Korea,” Obama said at the U.S.
Army Garrison Yongsan base in Seoul, according to the text of
the speech distributed in advance. “And along with the rest of
the world, we have made it clear that North Korea’s continued
pursuit of nuclear weapons will only lead to more isolation and
less security.”  North Korea is under international  sanctions  for its
pursuit of an illicit nuclear weapons program. Six-party talks
on the issue, involving North Korea, South Korea, China, Japan,
Russia and the U.S., have been stalled since the North walked
out in April last year and then conducted its second nuclear-
weapon test a month later.  The two Koreas remain technically at war following their
1950-53 conflict that ended in a ceasefire with no peace treaty.
Tensions on the peninsula have heightened since the South
accused the North of torpedoing one of its warships in March,
killing 46 sailors.  ‘Another Path’  “There is another path available to North Korea,” Obama
said. “If they choose to fulfill their international
obligations and commitments to the international community, they
will have the chance to offer their people lives of growing
opportunity instead of crushing poverty.”  Until then, Obama said, the Korean peninsula provides “the
world’s clearest contrast” between a free and prosperous nation
and one that is closed and isolated.  “It’s a contrast so stark you can see it from space, as
the brilliant lights of Seoul give way to utter darkness in the
north,” he said,  Obama told the troops that he met today that they are
carrying on a proud legacy of the first U.S. forces that fought
in Korea more than 50 years ago to keep the nation free.  Since the war, the U.S. has kept a military presence in
South Korea. As the U.S. moves to a supporting role, Yongsan is
one of the U.S. bases that’s scheduled to return to Korean
control by 2016, according to the State Department  website .  A 2008 agreement between the U.S. and South Korea has
capped the number of U.S. troops at 28,500, and the two
countries have also agreed to transfer wartime operational
control to Korea’s military on April 17, 2012, the  website  says.  Obama arrived in Seoul yesterday to attend the G-20 summit
that begins this evening. It’s the latest stop on 10-day tour of
Asia, where the president is seeking to boost U.S. exports to
help bring down an unemployment rate that was 9.6 percent last
month.  Following his speech, Obama will lay a wreath at the
Yongsan War Memorial and meet with South Korean President Lee
Myung Bak.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Seoul at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
 Nicholas Johnston  in Seoul at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  