-- Mubadala Oil Unit to Tap Middle East for $300 Million Revenue
-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 2010-11-11T14:22:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/mubadala-oil-unit-to-tap-middle-east-for-300-million-in-revenue-ceo-says.html
PSN Emirates, an oil-services
venture controlled by Mubadala Development Co. of Abu Dhabi,
aims to generate more than $300 million in revenue over the next
five years, its chief executive officer said.  PSN Emirates will bid for maintenance contracts in Saudi
Arabia and Qatar as it plans expansion in the Middle East, home
to more than half of the world’s oil reserves, David Clark said
in a Nov. 1 interview in Abu Dhabi.  Mubadala, a government-owned investment company, formed PSN
Emirates in 2008 in a joint venture with Production Services
Network Ltd. of Aberdeen, Scotland, to provide oil services as
part of its oil and natural-gas business. In the same year,
Mubadala created  Petrofac Emirates , a separate venture with
 Petrofac Ltd. , a London-based oilfield services business.  “What Mubadala is trying to do is grow a contracting
company embedded in Abu Dhabi supporting the region,” Clark
said. “Petrofac Emirates and PSN Emirates are sister companies.
Petrofac does greenfield projects, PSN does brownfield.”  Mubadala seeks links with international companies that can
help it develop new industries, including health care and
technology-based businesses, in Abu Dhabi, capital of the United
Arab Emirates and holder of most of the country’s oil reserves.
Mubadala also sees such partnerships as a way to expand outside
the U.A.E. In energy, it explores for oil and gas in the Middle
East and Caspian Sea region with Occidental Petroleum Corp. and
ConocoPhillips and has an $8 billion joint venture with General
Electric Co. to invest in emerging markets.  Asab Oil Field  Petrofac Emirates’ activities in Abu Dhabi include helping
to raise oil output at the onshore Asab field, as part of a $2.4
billion contract won by its parent Petrofac. It has a separate
$1 billion contract to build a natural-gas liquids production
unit. Mubadala, in turn, is working with Petrofac to develop a
gas field in Turkmenistan.  PSN Emirates has bid for projects worth $1.7 billion so far
this year and “is on track to deliver an eight-figure revenue
stream for 2010,” Clark said, declining to specify the value of
contracts the venture has won.  PSN Emirates plans to bid for a five-year maintenance
contract from Saudi Aramco Total Refinery & Petrochemical Co., a
400,000 barrel-a-day refinery in Jubail on Saudi Arabia’s
Persian Gulf coast. The deal may be worth about $400 million and
will be tendered next year, Clark said.  PSN Emirates may also bid for a maintenance and operations
contract with Qatar’s Pearl gas-to-liquids project, a deal that
may be awarded by 2014, he said.  Mubadala Petroleum Services Co. owns 51 percent of both PSN
Emirates and Petrofac Emirates. Production Services Network
holds the remaining 49 percent of PSN Emirates, while Petrofac
owns 49 percent of Petrofac Emirates.  Aberdeen-based PSN, the co-owner of PSN Emirates,  announced 
last week that it had won a five-year contract worth more than
$500 million to provide services to eight North Sea assets of
Royal Dutch Shell Plc, including maintenance and potentially
also decommissioning work at the Brent field platforms.  Greenfield projects are built from scratch, whereas the
term brownfield refers to installations added to existing
industrial sites.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ayesha Daya  in Dubai 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  