-- Uganda Is Losing U.S.-Backed Fight Against LRA Rebels, Rights Watch Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2010-11-11T16:54:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/uganda-is-losing-u-s-backed-fight-against-lra-rebels-rights-watch-says.html
U.S. support for  Ugandan  troops in
their fight against the Lord’s Resistance Army has failed after
the campaign led the rebels to spread into neighboring
countries, Human Rights Watch said today.  The New York-based rights group called on the U.S. to
propose a regional solution that would protect civilians and
target the LRA’s leaders, according to an e-mailed statement.
The U.S. will release a new strategy document later this month.  “The LRA’s top leaders can be found, but the current
strategy of supporting Ugandan army operations is clearly not
working,” said Human Rights Watch senior Africa researcher
 Anneke Van Woudenberg . “A new approach is needed to protect
civilians and to bring together improved intelligence and
capable units to apprehend the LRA’s top leaders.”  Since 2007, the LRA has killed about 2,000 civilians in
northeastern Democratic Republic of Congo, where the Congolese
and Ugandan armies are conducting joint operations against the
group with support from United Nations peacekeepers. The
offensive has pushed the rebels into remote parts of Congo,
Central African Republic and Southern Sudan.  President  Barack Obama  signed legislation in May to create
a new strategy “to eliminate the threat to civilians and
regional stability” posed by the LRA. The strategy will be
announced by Nov. 24, according to the law.  U.S. Response  In an e-mailed statement, a U.S. State Department spokesman
said the Ugandan army “remained the most effective national
military pursuing the LRA.”  The army has “significantly degraded the capabilities of
the LRA, has conducted itself well, and has reduced the ability
of the organization to abduct and hold captives,” the statement
said.  Only about 200 to 400 LRA rebels remain along with hundreds
of abductees, according to Human Rights Watch.  Uganda’s army has battled a two-decade insurgency in the
north of the country by the LRA. The group, led by  Joseph Kony ,
started fighting after Ugandan President  Yoweri Museveni  in the
1980s purged the army of members of the Acholi community, whose
interests the LRA says it is defending.  Kony, a former Catholic altar boy who says the LRA is
inspired by the Ten Commandments, faces  International Criminal
Court  charges of murder, mutilation, rape and the abduction of
thousands of children for use as soldiers.  Kony is now thought to be on the border between Central
African Republic and Sudan’s Darfur region, Human Rights Watch
said. The group also called on the UN to deploy more
peacekeepers to LRA-affected areas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Kavanagh  in Kinshasa 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 