-- Human Genome Lupus Drug May Spur Takeover on Approval
-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 2010-11-11T21:14:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/human-genome-may-be-takeover-target-if-u-s-approves-lupus-drug-benlysta.html
Human Genome Sciences Inc.  may get
U.S. regulatory approval next month for the first new lupus
treatment in 50 years, a move that could spur acquisition
offers.  Benlysta, a drug Human Genome has said may cost patients
$15,000 to $20,000 a year, is likely to win clearance after
studies showed it reduced lupus symptoms such as joint and
muscle pain, fever, rashes and fatigue with fewer side effects
than therapies on the market, said  Michael Yee , an analyst at
RBC Capital Markets in San Francisco.  Human Genome, based in Rockville, Maryland, is co-
developing the product with  GlaxoSmithKline Plc , the U.K.’s
biggest drugmaker. Annual sales for Benlysta may surpass $2.1
billion by 2014, the average of five analyst estimates Bloomberg
compiled. A favorable ruling by regulators may spur Glaxo to
make a bid, Yee said in a telephone interview.  “Human Genome is one of the few multibillion-dollar
biotech franchises that would fit very nicely into other big
pharmaceutical or biotech companies” because Benlysta will have
“little to no competition and high pricing power,” Yee said.  Glaxo Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Witty  has said his
London-based company is seeking “bolt-on acquisitions.” The
company still isn’t keen on “splashing out billions of
dollars” to buy a large drugmaker “no matter what happens in
the market,” Witty said in an Oct. 21 statement.  Clinical Trials  Glaxo is interested instead in deals ranging from “a few
hundred millions” to “mid-single digit billions,” the
statement said. Human Genome has a market value of about $5
billion and has deals with Glaxo on the heart disease drug
darapladib and the diabetes drug Syncria, both of which are in
late-stage clinical trials.  Clinical trials show that Benlysta was “generally well
tolerated” and reduced symptoms when prescribed in addition to
standard therapies,  Mary Anne Rhyne , Glaxo’s U.S. spokeswoman,
said Nov. 9 in an e-mail.  Claire Brough , a London-based
spokeswoman for Glaxo, declined to comment in an e-mail on
whether the company would seek to acquire Human Genome.  Human Genome rose $2.15, or 8.8 percent, to $26.48 at 4
p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading, the most in
more than six months, after losing 20 percent of its value this
year before today. Glaxo’s American depositary receipts fell 15
cents, or less than 1 percent, to $39.75 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading.  Decision Pending  The companies said they expect a decision by Dec. 9 from
the FDA on Benlysta, a drug given by injection. An approval may
prompt “multiple big players” to bid for Human Genome, Yee
said, citing Thousand Oaks, California-based  Amgen Inc. , Roche
Holding AG, of Basel, Swirtzerland,  Abbott Laboratories  of
Abbott Park, Illinois, and New Brunswick, New Jersey-based
 Johnson & Johnson .  Those companies have “the balance sheet and ability” to
acquire Human Genome, and Benlysta would fit in well with sales
forces that already market rheumatoid arthritis drugs such as
Amgen’s Enbrel, Abbott’s Humira and J&J’s Remicade, Yee said.  Benlysta would be the first lupus treatment to win
marketing clearance by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
since 1958. The condition, which claimed the lives of American
novelist Flannery O’Connor and CBS television reporter  Charles Kuralt , affects about 5 million people worldwide by causing the
body’s immune system to attack healthy cells and tissue.  Benlysta is designed to inhibit the production of
antibodies that attack healthy cells in lupus patients.  Symptoms Vary  “This is really the advent of a new era in lupus diagnosis
and treatment,”  Sandra Raymond , president of the Washington-
based  Lupus Foundation of America , said in an interview.
“Patients are looking at it as a beacon of hope.”  Lupus symptoms range from mild to life-threatening,
complicating the development of drugs and clinical trials, said
Bonnie Bermas, director of the  Brigham & Women’s Hospital Lupus
Center  in Boston.  “One patient may have a low white blood-cell count, fluid
around their heart and skin rashes, another patient could have
arthritis and central nervous symptoms, and a third patient
could have kidney disease,” Bermas said in a phone interview.
“They can all look like very different patients.”  Roche and  Biogen Idec Inc. ’s Rituxan, approved for
rheumatoid arthritis, leukemia and non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma,
failed a late-stage lupus trial last year. Other drugs that have
fallen short include  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. ’s
Edratide, Genelabs Technologies Inc.’s Prestara and Riquent,
developed by  La Jolla Pharmaceutical Co.  and  BioMarin
Pharmaceutical Inc.   Lupus Drug  Benlysta would be the first drug developed specifically for
lupus, the Lupus Foundation’s Raymond said. The steroid
prednisone and some antimalarial drugs were already approved for
other conditions when the FDA cleared them for use in lupus
patients more than 50 years ago.  The chemotherapy drug cyclophosphamide and Roche’s
CellCept, an immune-system suppressant used in organ-transplant
patients, are among the medications prescribed for lupus
patients without FDA approval. While the FDA allows doctors to
prescribe drugs for unapproved purposes, companies can’t market
them for those so-called off-label uses.  Current lupus treatments can have side effects that over
time are worse than the disease itself, Raymond said.  “We have women in their 30s who have had strokes,” she
said. “We have young women who have had heart attacks, due to
the drugs they have to take.” Immunosuppressants and
chemotherapy also can cause bone loss, infertility and
infections, she said.  Benlysta may not work for all lupus patients, Brigham &
Women’s Bermas said.  Candidates might include people who have failed other
therapies or require high doses of prednisone to control their
symptoms and want to lower the amount to prevent side effects
such as bone loss, hypertension and diabetes, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Molly Peterson  in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  