-- Hungary's `Ad Hoc' Tax Extension May Damp Economic Growth, Analysts Say
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2010-11-11T10:33:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/hungary-s-ad-hoc-tax-extension-may-damp-economic-growth-analysts-say.html
Hungary’s decision to extend special
industry taxes beyond their planned expiration may undermine
efforts to boost economic  growth  to more than 5 percent by 2014
and meet revenue targets as debt repayments peak, analysts said.  Stocks fell the most in six months yesterday in Budapest
after Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s spokesman,  Peter Szijjarto ,
said the Cabinet plans to draft new rules to collect revenue
from selected industries after “crisis” taxes approved this year
end in 2012. The government will negotiate the new tax with
companies in 2012, Orban said today in Budapest.  “The equity market crashing tells you what this tax will
mean for growth,”  Bartosz Pawlowski , an emerging-market currency
strategist at BNP Paribas SA in London, said by phone. “The
investment environment will be severely hit with companies
having less cash to invest, causing potential growth to decline,
which is probably the last thing the government wants to do.”  Hungary’s reliance on tax increases is stoking concern the
European Union’s most-indebted eastern member will shy away from
spending cuts as it narrows the  budget deficit . Investors have
been buffeted by shifts in policy since Prime Minister Viktor
Orban was elected in April on promises to end five years of
austerity. After a standoff with international lenders, he
agreed in September to meet the EU deficit limit next year.  “There is little one can say about yesterday’s events in
Hungary except that they pulled the country one major step down
the credibility ladder, the main reason for the selloff in
equities,”  Simon Quijano-Evans , head of emerging-market
strategy at Credit Agricole Cheuvreux SA in Vienna, said in a
note to clients today.  Forint Falls  The forint weakened 0.8 percent today to 276.66 per euro at
11:30 a.m. in Budapest The benchmark BUX stock index rose 1
percent., paring losses after it fell 4.7 percent yesterday, the
most since May 7.  Mol Nyrt. , Hungary’s largest oil refiner, rose
1.1 percent after tumbling 6 percent yesterday.  OTP Bank Nyrt. ,
the country’s biggest lender, increased 0.9 percent after
falling 5.2 percent yesterday.  Magyar Telekom Nyrt., which is controlled by Deutsche
Telekom AG, and Mol have said they may reduce investments next
year. Vienna-based Erste Group Bank AG said yesterday it will
cut 9 percent of its workforce in Hungary.  Tax Projection  Orban originally levied taxes on the financial, energy,
telecommunications and retail industries through 2012 and said
he would use private pension funds to plug budget holes created
by switching to a flat 16 percent personal income tax next year.  According to the budget  draft  posted on parliament’s
website, the government is now counting on revenue from the
taxes through at least 2014. The taxes will raise 348 billion
forint ($1.8 billion) in 2011, 260 billion forint in 2012 and
179 billion forint in both 2013 and 2014.  With elections scheduled for 2014, the Cabinet’s reliance
on industry taxes for the remainder of its terms shows the
government probably won’t tackle structural issues to reduce
state spending, said  Daniel Bebesy , who helps manage $1.5
billion of mostly Hungarian government bonds at Budapest
Investment Management.  “There is no comprehensive plan, only ad hoc solutions,”
Bebesy said. “In this kind of environment, where companies are
hit with this kind of burden, the government’s growth
projections are unrealistic.”  Economic Outlook  The government expects  growth  to accelerate to 5.2 percent
in 2014 from a projected 0.8 percent this year, according to
Economy Ministry forecasts. Hungary’s economy contracted 6.3
percent last year, the most since 1991.  While the government’s measures are sufficient to meet
short-term budget targets, they fail to address the “structural
deficit” that may widen the budget gap to 6 percent of GDP by
2014, Standard & Poor’s said Nov. 3. S&P affirmed Hungary’s debt
rating at BBB-, one step above junk, with a negative outlook.  Hungary in 2012 will have to start repaying an
 International Monetary Fund  loan, part of a 20 billion-euro
($27.4 billion) bailout obtained in 2008 to avert a default
during the global financial crisis. The government decided not
to extend the credit line, which expired last month.  The volatility of the forint against the euro may show a
“notable rise” next year,  Carolin Hecht , a Frankfurt-based
currency strategist at Commerzbank AG, said in a research note.  Hungary’s currency has fallen 1.9 percent against the euro
this year, the worst performance among 25 emerging market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The forint fell 0.2 percent to
275.09 per euro as of 9:59 a.m. in Budapest.  “The forint is suffering under the pressure of market
uncertainty regarding Hungarian refinancing prospects,” Hecht
said. “In view of impending funding shortfalls and due to a
lack of alternatives, the government might once again apply
audacious fiscal measures, which will further increase
uncertainty on the markets, leading to higher financing costs.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Zoltan Simon at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  