-- Union Properties Reports $123 Million Third-Quarter Loss as Sales Decline
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2010-11-11T06:03:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/union-properties-reports-123-million-third-quarter-loss-as-sales-decline.html
Union Properties PJSC , Dubai’s
third-largest real-estate developer by market value, said its
third-quarter loss almost trebled as revenue from property
management and sales fell.  The net loss for the quarter widened to 451.8 million
dirhams ($123 million) from 152.3 million dirhams a year
earlier, while nine-month losses more than doubled to 751
million dirhams, Union Properties said in a statement on the
Dubai bourse today. Revenue from property management and sales
and other operating activities fell by more than half to 545.2
million dirhams from 1.3 billion in the year-earlier period.  Union Properties halted development work after credit dried
up in the financial crisis and more customers defaulted. In
2009, the company reported its first full-year loss and
suspended work on F1-X, a Formula One theme park in the
MotorCity development at the Dubai Autodrome race track.  The developer has liabilities of 811 million dirhams, which
include 325 million in short-term borrowings and 1.2 billion in
long-term debt, Union Properties said in the statement.  Union Properties will focus on completion of The Index
Tower and The Limestone House in the Dubai International
Financial Center during the fourth quarter, according to the
statement.  The company said sufficient funds will be made available to
complete its existing projects, which will be profitable. Union
Properties said funds may be generated from the sale of some of
the group’s non-core assets.  The developer said on Nov. 8 that it sold the Ritz Carlton
Hotel at the Dubai International Financial Center for 1.1
billion dirhams. The proceeds will be used to reduce overall
debt and complete work at Motor City development, it said. Union
Properties had wanted 1.5 billion dirhams for hotel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stefania Bianchi  in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 Eevans3@bloomberg.net  