-- Turkey Leaves Interest Rate Unchanged for 12th Month on Slowing Inflation
-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 2010-11-11T17:50:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/turkey-leaves-interest-rate-unchanged-for-12th-month-on-slowing-inflation.html
Turkey’s central bank left its
benchmark interest  rate  unchanged, marking a year of record-low
borrowing costs that have fueled a surge in economic growth.  The central bank in Ankara kept its  one-week repo lending 
rate at 7 percent, according to an e-mailed statement today.
That matched the  estimate  of all 13 economists in a Bloomberg
survey. It also slashed its overnight borrowing rate to 1.75
percent from 5.75 percent, saying it wants to encourage banks to
lend to one another at longer maturities rather than depositing
cash with the central bank. Minutes of the meeting are due to be
released within eight working days.  Governor  Durmus Yilmaz  said on Oct. 26 that he will
probably keep rates on hold until the last quarter of next year
because core indicators show that inflation is likely to slow
even as the economy expands. Gross domestic product grew about
11 percent annually in the first half and the government
forecasts expansion of 6.8 percent for the full year.  There are “no policy rate hikes on the horizon,”  Tevfik Aksoy , Morgan Stanley & Co.’s London-based chief economist for
Turkey, the Middle East and North Africa, said in an e-mailed
report.  The lira traded at 1.4363 per dollar at 7:30 p.m. local
time, little changed from before the central bank’s
announcement. The Turkish currency has gained about 4 percent
against the dollar and 9 percent against the euro this year.  Core Inflation  Inflation  slowed to 8.6 percent in October from 9.2 percent
a month earlier, and core inflation excluding food, energy and
non-alcoholic drinks, dropped to 2.5 percent. Yilmaz aims to
bring inflation down to 5.5 percent by the end of next year and
the bank said today that price developments are in line with
those goals.  Expectations for inflation over the next year rose this
month, signaling concerns that the target won’t be met. The
average forecast increased to 7.19 percent from 7.13 percent in
the central bank’s biweekly survey of economists and executives,
released on Nov. 8.  Consumer  loans  have risen by an average of 0.8 percent a
week since January. That has helped drive profits at lenders
such as  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS , whose shares have gained 39
percent this year while the benchmark  ISE-100  stock index added
33 percent.  There is pressure on Yilmaz to take other steps that will
“remove concern about the bank falling behind the curve,” even
as rates stay on hold, Aksoy said.  Reserve Requirement  The central bank in September increased the level of lira
reserves banks must deposit to 5.5 percent, partially reversing
a reduction in December 2008 to provide emergency liquidity
during the global financial crisis.  The bank plans to raise reserve requirements again before
the end of the year, Yilmaz said Nov. 1. It should increase them
to above the pre-crisis level, Aksoy said.  The bank also said in the statement accompanying today’s
decision that increasing capital inflows to Turkey, combined
with weak demand for Turkish goods abroad, “pose a risk to the
 current-account balance  and financial stability.”  The country had a current account deficit of $37.1 billion
in the 12 months through September, as the lira’s gains curbed
exports and economic growth fueled demand for imported goods.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steve Bryant  in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in Jerusalem at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  