-- Venezuelan Bill Could Force Banks to Give 5% of Profits to Social Fund
-- B y   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s   a n d   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 2010-11-11T22:32:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/venezuelan-bill-could-force-banks-to-give-5-of-profits-to-social-fund.html
Venezuela could force banks to
transfer 5 percent of their pre-tax profit to a social fund and
declare the  banking industry  of social interest, making it
easier to approve nationalizations, under the terms of a bill
that was approved in a first vote today.  “Banking institutions will dedicate 5 percent of their
total pre-tax profit for social responsibility to finance
communal council projects and other forms of social organization
stipulated in the law,” Article 48 the bill, which is posted on
the National Assembly’s  website , says.  Lawmakers debated the bill today and approved the
legislation in a first vote, according to National Assembly
Television. The bill will need to be approved in a second vote
before being signed into law by President  Hugo Chavez  and
published in the Official Gazette.  According to Softline Consultores, 5 percent of Venezuelan
bank profits amounted to 314 million bolivars ($73.1 million) in
2009 and to 168 million bolivars in the first half of this year.  “Venezuelan banks have been very speculative and this new
law seeks resources to support the development of the country,”
 Ricardo Sanguino , head of the congressional finance committee
said today during the session on ANTV. “We won’t have to bail
out banks or go through an intervention process, the authorities
will be able to directly take the institution if the rules
aren’t followed.”  “Social Solidarity”  Article 8 of the legislation says the banking industry must
be dedicated to “social solidarity” and that to safeguard the
interests of the republic and stability of the banks, the
president can order interventions, liquidations or any other
measure deemed necessary.  Chavez has tightened his grip on financial institutions
this year and closed 14 banks. The president accused them of
swindling depositors, failing to comply with capital
requirements and fueling capital flight. The government has
seized assets of bank directors that fled the country.  “Bank owners won’t be able to control other businesses
with this law,” Sanguino said. “They can’t have large land
estates or brokerages for example.”  Chavez says he won’t hesitate to seize institutions that
fail to meet directed lending requirements.  New York-based Citigroup Inc., Bilbao, Spain-based Banco
Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA, and Toronto-based Bank of Nova
Scotia all hold stakes in banking operations in Venezuela.  Spain’s Banco Santander SA sold its local bank to the
government for $1.05 billion last year. The government now
controls about 25 percent of the banking industry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Corina Rodriguez Pons  in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  