-- Venezuela Anti-Drug Czar Denies Arrested Kingpin's Corruption Allegations
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2010-11-11T22:56:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/venezuela-anti-drug-czar-denies-arrested-kingpin-s-corruption-allegations.html
The head of  Venezuela’s narcotics
agency ,  Nestor Reverol , today denied allegations made by one of
the world’s top drug traffickers that he had stolen his money
and used some of it to buy a $2 million home.  Walid Makled, arrested in Colombia in August, alleged in
two TV interviews that Reverol took over his businesses worth as
much as $70 million annually after he fled Venezuela, where he
is wanted on charges of drug trafficking and murder.  Reverol said Makled, who in 2009 was named by U.S.
President  Barack Obama  as one of four  “significant foreign
narcotics traffickers,”  should come to Venezuela and show proof
of his accusations.  “That man alleges that I have a $2 million home in
Cabimas,” Reverol said in comments on state television,
referring to a city in western Venezuela. “Anyone who knows
Cabimas knows that it would be impossible to build a $2 million
house there.”  Makled’s arrest has sparked a tug-of-war between Venezuela
and the U.S., both of whom want him extradited to be tried in
their countries. The legal dispute will be an early test of the
renewed relationship between Colombia and Venezuela, who only
recently restored diplomatic ties after quarrels over claims by
Colombia that Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez is harboring
guerrillas along their shared border.  Chavez said that Colombia President Juan Manuel Santos has
assured him Makled will be sent to Venezuela.  $1.2 Billion Fortune  Makled told Colombian RCN that he amassed a fortune of $1.2
billion by paying army generals, admirals and the brother of the
Interior and Justice Minister up to $1 million a month in order
to be granted the concessions to Venezuela’s largest port.
Makled also alleged he had paid $2 million dollars toward
Chavez’s campaign for a recall referendum in 2004.  Reverol said Makled’s assets such as boats and vehicles had
been handed over to the Venezuelan government for public use
while his homes had been assigned to organizations that work
with young people with disabilities. Some of Makled’s cars were
being used by senior officials and by the police, Reverol said.  Makled told RCN that before fleeing Venezuela he had
retrieved videos, receipts and other evidence to back up his
allegations.  Reverol said police had discovered 400 kilograms of cocaine
at a farm belonging to Makled. He is also wanted for the murder
of two journalists and a witness.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charlie Devereux  in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  