-- Vestas Says U.S. Expansion on Course as Turbine Market Shrinks
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2010-11-11T03:35:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/vestas-says-u-s-expansion-on-course-as-turbine-market-forecasts-reduced.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S, the world’s
largest wind turbine maker, will increase production in the U.S.
even after analysts including HSBC Holdings Plc cut forecasts
for installations in the region.  The Randers, Denmark-based company will expand its U.S.
head count to 4,000 “in the coming months,” from 2,300 now,
Chief Executive Officer Ditlev Engel said by phone from  Seoul .
Last month it said it will eliminate 3,000 jobs in  Europe .  “The cheapest way to produce electricity in the  United
States  from wind is to make it in the U.S.,” said Engel, who is
in the South Korean capital to advise Group of 20 leaders on
creating clean energy jobs. “We have no plans to change the
balancing of our capacity” beyond the European reductions
announced Oct. 26, he said.  Vestas has spent more than $1 billion building four
factories in Colorado to replace turbine imports in the U.S.,
the second biggest market after  China . HSBC last month pared its
forecast for the U.S. wind market this year by 14 percent and by
33 percent next year. Bloomberg New Energy Finance has also
slashed predictions.  This year in  Colorado , Vestas opened a plant in Brighton
making nacelles, the casings that hold the power-generating
equipment. It also built the world’s largest windmill-tower
factory in Pueblo and added to its blade-manufacturing plant in
Windsor.  Another blade plant is due to open next year in Brighton.
That will give Vestas the capacity to make about 3,000 megawatts
of turbines a year in the U.S., according to HSBC Global Head of
Clean Energy Research Robert Clover.  Challenging  “To fill that capacity, Vestas would need to fill more
than half the market,” Clover said in a telephone interview.
“It looks challenging to have that plant fully loaded at the
moment.”  Even so, London-based HSBC said in an Oct. 14 research note
that the Danish company is well-placed to gain market share
worldwide and that its slice of sales will likely be 16.5
percent in 2014, up from 14.5 percent last year.  “We are ramping up and investing in the U.S. because we
have a high confidence in the U.S. market as one of the most
important wind markets on this planet,” Vestas spokesman
Michael Holm said in a telephone interview.  The U.S. market will probably total 6 gigawatts this year
and 5 gigawatts next year, according to HSBC. New Energy Finance
predicts 7.8 gigawatts will be installed in 2011. The industry
added 395 megawatts in the third quarter, the  least since 2007 ,
the  American Wind Energy Association  said Oct. 29. It said a
lack of long-term energy policies in the U.S. is behind the
slump. In 2009, installations totaled 10 gigawatts, it said.  Forecasts Cut  Vestas is looking to the U.S. after twice lowering its
sales forecast for 2010. The company, which has lost more than
half its market value in the past year, said Oct. 26 it will
close four factories in Denmark and  Sweden  as European demand
drops because banks have tightened financing to wind-park
developers and the region’s sovereign debt crisis has limited
prospects for economic growth. Shares in the company dropped 2.4
percent yesterday to 173.5 kroner, taking their decline for year
to 45 percent.  Engel said it’s too early to tell if this month’s
congressional elections, in which the Republicans won control of
the  House of Representatives , will have any impact on renewable
energy.  “Energy issues are very much in the forefront on both
fronts of the aisle,” Engel said. “We still have 30 states in
the U.S. who have renewable portfolio standards in place which
will continue irrespective of the midterm elections.”  Green Jobs  Engel is head of a G-20 advisory panel that recommended the
elimination of fossil fuel subsidies, setting up a “robust”
price for emitting carbon, scaling up research and development,
and allowing free trade in environmental goods and services, he
said. The panel wants to meet each leader for an hour in coming
months to tailor a strategy for each country.  “The creation of green jobs, which is our focus, will only
happen if there’s long-term focus, letting business know where
to invest and what to look for,” Engel said. “When business
doesn’t know what the rules are, then business holds back.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  