-- Viacom Profit Beats Estimates as `Jersey Shore' Bolsters MTV
-- B y   S a r a h   R a b i l
-- 2010-11-11T12:11:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/viacom-beats-profit-estimates-with-jersey-shore-plans-to-sell-rock-band.html
Viacom Inc. , the owner of MTV
Networks and Comedy Central, said profit beat analysts’
estimates after higher viewership of its cable channels led to
increased advertising sales.  Profit, excluding the sale of its Harmonix game business
and tax benefits, was 75 cents, topping the 70-cent average of
26 analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Viacom said today
it will sell Harmonix, creator of the Rock Band music video
game.  Net income  declined to $189 million, or 31 cents a share,
in the quarter ended Sept. 30, from $463 million, or 76 cents, a
year ago, the New York-based company said today in a statement.  A surging recovery in ratings at MTV, driven by the hit
show “Jersey Shore,” as well as Nickelodeon, TV Land and
Comedy Central helped Viacom sell more television commercials at
higher prices. U.S. ad sales gained 8 percent, compared with the
6 to 7 percent growth estimated by Evercore Partners analyst
 Alan Gould . Ad sales helped offset lower box-office revenue.  Total revenue rose 5 percent to $3.33 billion, compared
with the $3.28 billion average estimate.  Viacom, controlled by Chairman  Sumner Redstone , rose 7
cents to $38.10 yesterday in New York Stock Exchange composite
 trading . The shares had risen 28 percent this year before today.  During the quarter, Viacom’s pay-TV channel Epix -- with
rights to films from Paramount,  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. 
and Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc. -- struck a deal to make itself
profitable immediately.  Netflix Inc.  agreed to pay $900 million
over five years for online streaming rights to Epix’s more than
3,000 films.  The company’s Paramount Pictures film studio made $219.3
million in movie theaters in the period, with its top release
“The Last Airbender,” according to researcher Box Office Mojo.
In the year-ago quarter, Paramount took in $351.3 million with
the release of “Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen” and
“G.I. Joe: The Rise of Cobra.”  Paramount has the second-highest box-office revenue this
year. Last month,  Walt Disney Co.  agreed to pay Paramount at
least $115 million for distribution rights to “Iron Man 3” and
the “Avengers,” gaining full control of movies owned by its
Marvel Entertainment unit. The payment is a minimum guarantee to
Paramount, which had been hired to distribute Marvel films
before the Disney acquisition.  As of Sept. 30, Viacom switched to a fiscal year that ends
Sept. 30, instead of Dec. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Rabil  in New York at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  