-- Vodafone, Bharti Struggle to Squeeze Profit From African Deals
-- B y   N i c k y   S m i t h   a n d   M i c h a e l   C o h e n
-- 2010-11-11T17:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/vodafone-bharti-struggle-to-squeeze-profit-from-africa-as-call-rates-drop.html
For  Vodafone Group Plc , Bharti
Airtel Ltd. and other phone companies with more than $90 billion
invested in Africa, making money from each user in the world’s
fastest-growing market is turning into the biggest challenge.  The number of operators is prompting a race to the bottom
on call rates. In Tanzania, which has seven phone companies,
prices have fallen 90 percent over the past 18 months. Companies
also face among the world’s highest “churn” rates, with users
frequently changing operators, and patchy infrastructure, all of
which make returns on investment difficult.  “It is hard,” said  Pieter Uys , chief executive officer of
Vodacom Group Ltd., which is controlled by Vodafone and is the
largest provider of mobile-phone services in South Africa and
Tanzania. “You have to do business in a very different way, you
have to build data networks, find other ways to grow revenue.”  Phone operators gathered at Africa’s telecommunications
conference that began yesterday in Cape Town want to sell
services to the 50 percent of the market that doesn’t have
mobile phones. They also want to service current customers more
cheaply, without losing user loyalty, while stemming declines in
average revenue per user, or ARPU, by offering newer services
such as mobile Internet, banking and other money transactions.  “We are now dealing with an ecosystem that’s changing very,
very fast,” Andile Ngacaba, chairman of Dimension Data and
Convergence Partners, said at the conference. “On the one side,
we see this subscriber growth and growth in data and data
applications. On the other side, we see this decrease in ARPUs.
This requires new models of investment such as infrastructure
sharing.”  African Growth  Operators have been lured to the continent by its promise.
Africa has a mobile-phone population of about 445 million
handsets, according to a  McKinsey & Co . report. It took 20 years
for the size of the mobile-phone population to reach 200 million,
and less than three years to get to the next 200 million,
according to the report.  Africa has “become the fastest-growing region in the
global cellular market, going from fewer than 2 million mobile
phones in 1998 to more than 400 million today,” it said.  The mobile value-added services market in Africa was worth
$4.5 billion in 2009, and over the next five years is forecast
to grow at a compound annual growth rate of 20 percent,
generating $11.5 billion by 2014, Informa Telecoms & Media, a
London-based consultant, said in its Rural Connectivity Report
in Africa published this month.  Capture Opportunity  About 80 percent of the sales were from messaging, while
mobile Internet contributed 14 percent and mobile entertainment
such as music and television 3.5 percent, the report showed.  Internet and broadband penetration is still in single
digits, Uys said.  “So the possibilities are still there but it’s what you
pay for it to get it, the investment in infrastructure,” he
said. “If the tariffs are driven too low for whatever reason
then it might also not make sense.”  In order for mobile operators to “capture this
opportunity” the market needs consolidation, McKinsey said.
“The industry structure should be rationalized, for example,
because many markets, even smaller ones, have four or more
players.”  Competition on the continent is fiercer now than it has
ever been. In the Democratic Republic of Congo and Tanzania
mobile-phone tariffs plunged between 50 percent and 60 percent
in the six months through September.  Tumbling Prices  Prices in Kenya have been slashed to such an extent that
 Safaricom Ltd.  Chief Executive Officer  Bob Collymore  said
India’s Bharti, which bought most of Zain’s African operations
last year for $9 billion, is losing money on as much as 50
percent of its voice traffic.  Safaricom has an 86 percent share of the market and is 40
percent held by Newbury, England-based Vodafone. Bharti’s head
of African operations,  Manoj Kohli , declined to comment on
Safaricom’s remarks. “We can’t comment on our competitors’
claims,” Kohli said.  On Aug. 18, Bharti halved tariffs in Kenya to 3 shillings,
 Les Baillie , a spokesman for Safaricom said. Safaricom “knew
that voice was always going to become a commodity,” Baillie
said. “It was not expected that it would happen so rapidly
though.”  Companies are scrambling to adapt their operations to the
new climate.  “We have to review our business model and make it leaner
and compete on price and have more quality in our network and to
have more data,” said  Mickael Ghossein , chief executive officer
of Orange Telkom Kenya, which is 51 percent held by France
Telecom SA. “We have to enhance our quality of networks.”  Sharing Towers  In South Africa, Vodacom, which is 65 percent owned by
Vodafone, is investing in data networks. Data now accounts for
more than 50 percent of its traffic and is growing at more than
50 percent a year, Uys said.  The company is also pushing smart devices that are able to
browse the Internet to low-end segments with touchscreen phones
that retail at 499 rand ($73). Once users have an improved
mobile browsing experience, data consumption increases, Uys said  Operators are also sharing infrastructure, especially to
reach sparsely populated rural areas where returns on capital
invested in infrastructure are low.  Infrastructure sharing and outsourcing of towers has been
punted for years. Now, faced with greater competitive pressure,
companies are beginning to act.  ‘Good Industry’  Last month, Vodafone signed an agreement with Eaton Towers
to manage its 750 towers in Ghana. On Nov. 5,  American Tower
Corp.  agreed to buy 3,200 towers from Cell C Ltd., South
Africa’s third-largest mobile phone services provider, in a deal
worth $430 million.  “We are going to see more and more of those type of deals
happening,” said  David Lerche , a telecoms analyst at
Johannesburg-based Avior Research. “There are lots of little
tower companies running around trying to position themselves as
tower outsourcers. It’s quite an interesting development.”  For all its challenges, the market is still attractive,
 Marc Rennard , vice president of Orange Mobile for Africa, Middle
East and Asia, said in an interview.  While investor interest has waned a little, “we are
profitable, the big players, the five, six main players are
profitable,” he said. “It’s still a good industry.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicky Smith  in Johannesburg at 
 nsmith38@bloomberg.net ;
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net  