-- Wal-Mart Holiday Sales May Miss Forecast, Analyst Says
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2010-11-11T21:08:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/wal-mart-holiday-sales-may-be-worse-than-forecast-cleveland-research-says.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  may fail to
turn its sales around by the holiday season as planned since the
discount retailer has yet to lure customers back from rival
outlets, according to Cleveland Research Co.  Store traffic has declined and is unlikely to recover in
the next two months, Cleveland analyst  Jeff Stinson  said in a
report yesterday. The Bentonville, Arkansas-based company also
has had to cancel some promotions to “protect” profit margins,
he said.  That evidence suggests Wal-Mart won’t revive  sales  at U.S.
stores open at least a year by the fourth quarter as Chief
Executive Officer Mike Duke predicted, Stinson said. Duke aims
to attract shoppers by bringing back products the retailer had
removed, revamping promotional displays, and offering free
shipping to homes on thousands of holiday items.  Wal-Mart’s U.S. same-store sales have declined for five
straight  quarters . The world’s biggest retailer, which faces
increasing competition from dollar stores and SuperValu Inc.’s
Save-A-Lot discount grocery chain, is scheduled to report third-
quarter results next week.  Greg Rossiter , a spokesman for Wal-Mart, declined to
comment on the Cleveland report.  The free shipping offer, which applies to almost 60,000
products including furniture, jewelry and video games, is on now
through Dec. 20, the company said today in a statement. It isn’t
valid on Apple Inc.’s iPod and iPad devices.  ‘Aggressive’ Season  Wal-Mart is stepping up promotions as it prepares for an
“aggressive” holiday season, William Simon, the U.S. stores
chief, said at a September investor conference. Holiday sales
industrywide may climb 2.3 percent to $447.1 billion this year,
according to estimates from the Washington-based National Retail
Federation.  Sales at that rate would be the best showing in four years.
Some retailers, including department-store chain  Kohl’s Corp. 
and Toys “R” Us Inc., have added temporary staff to help out.  The November and December holiday shopping season may
generate almost $52 billion in online sales, a 16 percent
increase from 2009, according to Forrester Research Inc. in
Cambridge, Massachusetts.  Target Corp. , the second-biggest U.S.
discount retailer, is also offering free shipping on over
800,000 items on online orders with at least $50 spent on
eligible products.  Some shoppers are still holding back on purchases as they
struggle to recover from the worst economic slump in about 70
years. Consumer spending rose less than forecast in September as
incomes declined for the first time in more than a year,
according to Commerce Department figures released this month.  Wal-Mart fell 17 cents to $54.34 at 4 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite  trading . The shares have risen 1.7
percent this year, compared with an 8.8 percent gain for the
Standard and Poor’s 500 index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Boyle  in New York at 
 Mboyle20@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net . 