-- Wal-Mart Offers Free Shipping During Holiday Season
-- B y   I a n   T h o m s o n   a n d   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2010-11-11T14:45:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/wal-mart-offers-free-shipping-during-holiday-season.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. , the world’s
biggest retailer, is offering free shipping to homes on almost
60,000 holiday items through its website as it vies for budget-
conscious shoppers.  The offer, which applies to products including furniture,
jewelry and video games, is on now through Dec. 20, the
Bentonville, Arkansas-based company said today in a statement.
It isn’t valid on  Apple Inc. ’s iPod and iPad devices.  Wal-Mart is looking to win back customers in the U.S.,
where  sales  at stores open at least a year have declined for
five straight quarters. Chief Executive Officer  Mike Duke  said
last month that confidence among consumers, whose spending
accounts for about 70 percent of the U.S. economy, is “not very
positive” because of high  unemployment .  Wal-Mart fell 16 cents to $54.35 at 9:41 in New York Stock
Exchange composite  trading . The shares had risen 2 percent this
year before today, compared with a 9.3 percent increase in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Wal-Mart is stepping up promotions as it prepares for an
“aggressive” holiday season,  William Simon , the U.S. stores
chief, said at a September investor conference. Holiday sales
industrywide may climb 2.3 percent to $447.1 billion this year,
according to estimates from the Washington-based National Retail
Federation.  Sales at that rate would be the best showing in four years.
Some retailers, including department-store chain Kohl’s Corp.
and Toys “R” Us Inc., have added temporary staff to help out.  Rivals’ Plans  Target Corp. , the second-biggest U.S. discount retailer, is
offering free shipping on items featured on its “Hot Toys” list,
including WowWee Group Ltd.’s Paper Jamz Guitar and VTech
Electronics Ltd.’s V. Reader. The Minneapolis-based company is
also offering free shipping on over 800,000 items on online
orders with at least $50 spent on eligible products.  Some shoppers are still holding back on purchases as they
struggle to recover from the worst economic slump in about 70
years. Consumer spending rose less than forecast in September as
incomes declined for the first time in more than a year,
according to Commerce Department figures released this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ian Thomson  in New York at 
 ithomson2@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Boyle  in New York at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  