-- Wall Street Trading Desks May Boost Emerging Market Holdings, Hintz Says
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2010-11-11T16:05:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/wall-street-banks-may-boost-emerging-market-holdings-hintz-says.html
Trading desks of big Wall Street
banks, grappling with higher capital requirements, may decide to
boost their holdings of emerging market securities and sovereign
debt, according to  Brad Hintz  at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  The so-called Basel III capital requirements imposed by the
Basel  Committee on Banking Supervision  as well as limits to
proprietary trading and changes to derivatives rules in the
U.S.’s Dodd-Frank law make it harder for trading desks to earn a
sufficient return on equity, Hintz wrote in a note to investors
today. One solution will be changing the types of assets held on
trading desks, Hintz said in the note.  “Our belief is that the ‘new optimal’ balance sheet of
Wall Street will include larger emerging market positions in
equity and debt” because they are fast growing and earn a
higher return, Hintz wrote. Banks will also emphasize “a large
government and sovereign book” because such holdings require
little capital even if they earn low returns, he wrote.  Such a shift by Wall Street’s biggest firms, which include
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. ,  Morgan Stanley 
and  Citigroup Inc. , has potential risks if emerging market
equities and bonds as well as sovereign debt lose value.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index , which tracks 754 stocks,
is up 15 percent this year after climbing 75 percent last year.
The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note is 2.6 percent,
compared with a 3.94 percent average over the last five years
and a 5.29 percent average over the last 20 years.  Crowded Trade  Hintz said there is a risk that too many market
participants pile into the same types of assets, known as a
crowded trade, inflating prices and then leading to losses when
investors all try to sell at once.  “The idea of the crowded trade is exactly one of the
curses, but that’s a common curse whenever you make a regulatory
change,” Hintz said in a voicemail response to a question.
“You’ve tilted the playing field and as a result all the balls
are going to roll in one direction.”  In his note today, titled "Is Trading, As We Know It,
Dead?," Hintz said that the Wall Street trading desks that will
adapt most easily to changing capital requirements and
regulations will be those that already have well-developed
franchises in emerging markets, are more reliant on fixed-income
trading than on equities trading, have a track record of strong
trading results and have a strong position in debt and equity
underwriting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 