-- WestLB Faces Rising Threat of Closure in New Bout With Brussels
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2010-11-11T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/westlb-faces-rising-threat-of-closure-in-bout-with-brussels-over-bailout.html
WestLB AG , the German state-owned
bank that must sell itself after government bailouts, is
struggling to find a buyer. Now it has to convince the European
Union there are better options than just winding it down.  The viability of the Dusseldorf-based bank may be debated
when officials from WestLB, German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble , and representatives of the European Commission meet
in Brussels on Nov. 15.  WestLB suffered a setback when  Bayerische Landesbank  pulled
out of merger talks on Nov. 4. The next day,  Joaquin Almunia ,
Europe’s antitrust chief, said the bank may be wound down if it
can’t meet the EU’s demands to shed assets and sell itself by
the end of 2011. A shutdown of WestLB, which was kept alive by
taxpayer money, including 3 billion euros ($4.1 billion) from
Germany’s bank-rescue fund, would be manageable, said  Dirk Becker , an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets.  “WestLB isn’t relevant for a functioning German banking
market,” said Becker, based in Frankfurt. “An orderly winding
down could go smoothly.”  That prospect “unfortunately is increasing,” Almunia told
reporters in Brussels on Nov. 5, the same day he announced an
in-depth probe into 3.4 billion euros in help WestLB allegedly
received improperly from the government. Almunia said that aid
might require further asset sales by the bank.  Dietrich Voigtlaender , WestLB’s chief executive officer,
said in an e-mailed statement that the EU didn’t have any new
evidence to back up its claims.  ‘Plan C’  Shutting WestLB would come at a “substantial” cost to
owners, employees, customers, the banking industry and
taxpayers, Voigtlaender told  Frankfurter Allgemeine
Sonntagszeitung  in an interview on Nov. 7.  Norbert Walter-Borjans , the finance minister of North
Rhine-Westphalia, which owns about 48 percent of WestLB, said
winding down the lender would cost the state and taxpayers
“billions,” without providing more details,  Rheinische Post 
reported.  While North Rhine-Westphalia’s governing Social Democrats
are focused on finding a merger partner among the country’s
state-owned lenders, or a buyer, the government is also
calculating the potential costs of an orderly liquidation,
finance spokesman  Martin Boerschel  said in an interview.  “Plan A is consolidation among Landesbanken and plan B a
sale,” he said. “Plan C is winding down the lender, which we’d
like to avoid.”  WestLB spokesman  Eberhard Roll  declined to comment,
referring to Voigtlaender’s previous statements that the bank
would pursue a sale or merger.  International Expansion  Once a domestic lender that funded apartments, houses and
companies in Germany’s industrial Ruhr Valley, WestLB took
advantage of low financing costs in the 1990s to win business
abroad and build an investment bank.  The expansion backfired in 2002 when writedowns swelled at
the U.K. financing business. Since then, the bank has been
unprofitable in five of the last eight years, racking up about
5.7 billion euros in losses from trading, soured U.S. subprime
mortgage investments and asset writedowns.  Germany’s ninth-biggest bank at the end of 2009, WestLB has
about 5,000 employees and reported a loss of 531 million euros
last year, after earning 18 million euros in 2008. It had  total
assets  of 251 billion euros at the end of June, compared with
341 billion euros at BayernLB, Germany’s second-biggest state-
owned lender after Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg.  Winding Down  To wind down WestLB, the lender could stop accepting new
business, let existing transactions run out and sell a portion
of its assets, said  Klaus Fleischer , professor for banking and
finance at the University of Applied Sciences in Munich.  “A partial wind-down is the most likely option for WestLB,
meaning a significant downsizing and repositioning of the
lender,” Fleischer said. “The remainder of WestLB might
eventually be merged or sold to a bigger bank.”  WestLB shifted about one-third of its assets, or 77 billion
euros, to  Erste Abwicklungsanstalt , the bad bank it established
with the help of Germany’s Soffin rescue fund in December 2009.  The European Commission said last week that it suspects
WestLB may have received improper state aid and therefore gained
an unfair competitive advantage by transferring its “toxic and
non-strategic assets” to the bad bank, “well above their real
long-term economic value.”  BayernLB Rejection  The rejection by Munich-based BayernLB, which said a
combination wouldn’t “sufficiently” boost profitability, comes
after  Friedrich Merz , the former lawmaker overseeing the sale of
WestLB, said on Oct. 28 that a separate sales process was
attracting “robust interest” from potential buyers.  Earlier attempts by Germany’s Landesbanken to merge have
mostly failed because of wrangling between regional politicians.
Germany may need only two or three state-owned banks, according
to  Heinrich Haasis , president of the DSGV association of savings
banks, which are shareholders in the state lenders.  The eight Landesbanken, which serve as savings banks’
central banks and clearinghouses in Germany, and DekaBank
Deutsche Girozentrale, the fund manager for the nation’s savings
banks, had combined assets of about 1.82 trillion euros and more
than 54,000 employees at the end of 2009, according to the  DSGV .  WestLB is also under orders from the EU to sell its real-
estate unit, Westdeutsche ImmobilienBank AG, by the end of this
year. The bank has so far rejected offers for WestImmo as
unacceptable and sought to extend the sale deadline.  Managing Shocks  German lawmakers are trying to ease voter frustration about
taxpayer-funded bailouts. The government last month passed a law
shifting more responsibility to banks in managing shocks to the
financial system. The legislation, which includes updated
insolvency rules, is aimed at replacing the government’s 480
billion-euro bank-rescue fund with money from lenders.  The Soffin fund has  provided  29 billion euros in capital
and 151 billion euros in guarantees to financial firms,
including  Hypo Real Estate Holding AG , which the German
government took over in its largest bank rescue since World War
II.  German state banks WestLB, BayernLB and HSH Nordbank AG
need “in-depth restructuring and re-orientation of their
activities” to win EU approval for government help, Almunia
said last week. They have to prove they can survive without
state aid to justify “the efforts of the German taxpayers and
the distortions of competition produced by the use of public
money,” he said.  It’ll be hard to find a buyer for WestLB as a whole,
Professor Fleischer said. “A cautious winding-down over a
couple of years would be the best option for everybody,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Kirchfeld  at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
 Oliver Suess  in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  