-- Western Union, MoneyGram May Lose as Fed Sets Remittance Rules
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2010-11-11T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/western-union-moneygram-may-lose-as-fed-warren-target-remittance-fees.html
The Federal Reserve may force money-
transfer firms to more fully disclose fees and exchange rates,
which may lower costs for customers and reduce earnings at
 Western Union Co.  and  MoneyGram International Inc .  The rules will be among the first changes in consumer
finance to emerge from the Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul signed
by President  Barack Obama  in July. The Fed has begun discussing
the regulations with industry and advocacy groups because the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is not yet in place,
according to three people briefed on the matter.  Western Union and MoneyGram are the biggest players in
cross-border remittances often used by foreign workers to send
money home. Customers of money-transfer services sent $414
billion globally in 2009, the World Bank reported Nov. 8.  With little federal regulation of the transfers, “You put
your money in and take your chances,”  Elizabeth Warren , the
White House special adviser charged with setting up the consumer
bureau, said in a briefing last month.  “How much money comes out at the other end depends on what
kinds of fees and what kinds of exchanges have been added in --
things that are not necessarily exposed to the consumer up
front,” Warren said Oct. 22 at the State Department’s  Foreign
Press Center  in Washington.  MoneyGram “supports the well-intentioned goals” of the
law,  Lynda Michielutti , spokeswoman for the Minneapolis-based
company, said in an e-mail. “However, as written, we believe
that these requirements will create unintended consequences such
as reduced competition, fewer consumer choices, increased costs
and limited innovation, which will negatively impact our
customers,” she wrote.  ‘Lot of Latitude’  Regulators have “a lot of a latitude here, so I can’t
speculate on the impact on business,” said Tim Daly, senior
vice president for government relations at Englewood, Colorado-
based Western Union.  Remittance companies make money from fees and exchange
rates. A Western Union customer who wants to send $100 to Mexico
pays a $9.99 fee in the U.S., according to the company’s
 website . The recipient in Mexico would get pesos, and Western
Union would make additional money on the spread between the
wholesale and retail exchange rates.  The spread’s role in remittance costs has long been an
issue. Western Union in 2000 agreed to change some practices and
pay more than $400 million, mostly to Mexican immigrants in the
United States, to settle a lawsuit alleging that the company’s
advertising falsely represented the costs. Western Union
resolved the claims without admitting or denying wrongdoing.  “What we did temporarily through litigation would be much
better done via regulation,” said Matthew Piers, a lawyer with
 Hughes Socol Piers Resnick & Dym  in Chicago, which brought the
lawsuit on behalf of a group of immigrants from Mexico.  Consumer Lobbying  Consumer groups that lobbied for the provision in Dodd-
Frank said the changes would prevent money-transfer firms from
taking advantage of customers with limited resources. “People
have to get the information before they actually commit the
money,” said  Janis Bowdler , deputy director of the wealth-
building project at the National Council of La Raza, a
Washington-based advocacy group for Latinos.  Western Union has about 20 percent of the global money-
transfer market, said Manuel Orozco, director of the remittances
program at Inter-American Dialogue, a nonprofit policy group in
Washington. Remittances from the U.S. to Mexico totaled $21.1
billion in 2009, a 19 percent drop from 2008, Orozco said.  Comparison Shopping  The Dodd-Frank law aims to lower costs for customers by
promoting comparison shopping and thus more competition.
Depending on the final language, the rules could cut into
earnings. Consumer-to-consumer transfers accounted for 85
percent of Western Union’s total revenue in 2009, according to a
 filing  with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Such
transfers made up 76 percent of MoneyGram’s revenue that year,
Michielutti said.  “Any kind of regulatory pressure could restrict margins
and therefore the company may have less to spend on new
initiatives, thereby thwarting top-line growth as well,” said
 Dave Novosel , an analyst with Gimme Credit, a research firm.  The changes come as Western Union and MoneyGram face
increasing competition from new technologies such as pre-paid
cards, Internet-based transfers and payments with cell phones,
analysts said. Western Union’s “core money transfer business
will be cannibalized by emerging alternatives,”  Bill Carcache 
of  Macquarie Group Ltd.  wrote in a Sept. 30 research note.  Receipts and Delivery  The Fed’s rule-writers will specify how the firms must
provide consumers with disclosures of fees and exchange rates
before a transaction is completed. The law also requires that
consumers receive a receipt that includes the promised delivery
date of the funds and information on how to resolve disputes
with the company. Remittance firms will also have to provide
contacts for state regulators and for the new consumer bureau.  Western Union has been talking with Fed officials about how
rules may affect its business model, which uses a network of
licensed agents to handle transfers, Daly said.  So-called storefront disclosure rules -- such as a
requirement that fees and exchange rates be posted outside the
agent’s location -- may be difficult carry out since exchange
rates fluctuate constantly, Daly said. Western Union is
concerned that the new rules could make the company liable for
actions of independent agents, he said.  The Fed may formalize the new rules by July; if not, the
consumer bureau will take over when it opens its doors that
month, said one of the people briefed on the matter, who
declined to be identified because the process hasn’t been made
public.  Smaller Competitors  Western Union and MoneyGram, the top two global firms by
volume handled, face competition from smaller private firms that
focus on certain countries or regions. Those firms could be even
more vulnerable to higher operating costs, since new regulations
may require technological upgrades, Orozco said.  David Landsman, executive director of the  National Money
Transmitters Association , said the smaller players group
represents see the new rules as an unnecessary burden.  “I don’t know any money-transfer business that does not fix
the rate of sale in Mexican pesos at the point of sale. There is
no issue there,” Landsman said. “This whole thing is a
solution in search of a problem.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carter Dougherty  in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 