-- WestLB Loses London Trial Over $22.3 Million Claim Against a Nomura Unit
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   J a m e s   L u m l e y
-- 2010-11-11T16:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/westlb-loses-london-trial-over-22-3-million-claim-against-a-nomura-unit.html
A  Nomura Holdings Inc.  unit doesn’t
owe  WestLB AG  the $22.3 million the German lender bailed out
during the financial crisis was seeking at trial, a London court
ruled.  While Nomura International Plc “acted irrationally” in
valuing securities in an investment fund after the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., WestLB failed to prove that
valuation resulted in it losing any money it wouldn’t have
otherwise, Judge  Nigel Teare  ruled today.  WestLB “failed to prove on the balance of probabilities
that the shares had a value in excess of the defendants’ fee and
so has failed to prove that it has suffered any damage,” Teare
said in his judgment. The value of the securities determined by
Nomura isn’t binding, he said. The judge denied WestLB
permission to appeal.  WestLB claimed at a trial in the High Court in London that
Nomura International last year used a “fraudulent” bidding
procedure to determine the value of shares in an investment fund
after missing a deadline to deliver notes that were linked to
the shares rather than pay their cash value.  Nomura “acted irrationally in limiting its investigation
of value to a dealer poll,” yet it didn’t act “dishonestly,”
Teare said in the judgment.  Dealer Poll  The head of the trading desk in Nomura International’s
structured credit group conducted a dealer poll in February by
sending bid requests on the securities to banks including
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Credit Suisse Group AG, Standard
Chartered Plc, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Deutsche Bank AG,
according to the judgment. None of the dealers were interested,
so the Tokyo-based lender concluded the shares were worthless.  “We are surprised and disappointed at the judge’s ruling
and are considering an appeal,” West LB said in an e-mailed
statement. The German lender would have to apply directly to the
Court of Appeal in London to challenge the ruling.  WestLB, based in Dusseldorf, had claimed Nomura should have
used the $22.3 million cash value of the notes established by
the fund’s manager, Mauritian International Trust Co., or Mitco.
Nomura said that valuation wasn’t reliable because it didn’t
outline its methodology or the fund’s underlying assets.  “Nomura is satisfied with today’s decision,” the bank
said in an e-mailed statement. “We have always maintained that
WestLB’s claim was without foundation. We now consider the
matter concluded.”  The dispute involves the 2003 purchase of $26 million in
shares of Global Opportunities Fund, which was managed by First
Capital Management Ltd. of Mauritius, and arranged by the firm’s
managing director,  Rafat Rizvi .  WestLB may have to be wound down if the bank can’t fulfill
European Union orders to shed assets and sell itself by the end
of 2011, EU antitrust chief  Joaquin Almunia  said last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Lumley  in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net ;
 Lindsay Fortado  in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 