-- Wheat Declines for Third Day as Wet Weather May Boost Crops in U.S. Plain
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2010-11-11T20:39:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/wheat-falls-in-chicago-as-wet-weather-may-boost-crops-in-u-s-great-plain.html
Wheat futures fell for the third
straight day on speculation that rain in the U.S. Great Plains
will boost winter crops.  Kansas, the largest U.S. grower of winter wheat, and
Oklahoma may get about 1.5 inches (3.8 centimeters) in the next
two days, according to a report by  Gail Martell , the founder of
forecaster Martell Crop Projections. Some U.S. growing areas got
less than half of the normal amount of  rain  in the past 30 days,
National Weather Service data show.  “There is some rain in the forecast, which will hopefully
help some of the wheat that’s been planted,” said  Dan Kuechenmeister , the manager of the commodities department at RBC
Dain Rauscher in Minneapolis.  Wheat futures for December delivery dropped 6 cents, or 0.8
percent, to settle at $7.04 bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the Chicago
Board of Trade. The price slid 4.4 percent in three days.  The commodity has jumped 47 percent since the end of June
after drought in Russia and Eastern Europe slashed output.  Earlier, futures fluctuated after Informa Economics Inc.
said the U.S. may plant 39.687 million acres of winter wheat for
harvest in 2011. That was 3.5 percent less than the company’s
September projection and up 6.3 percent from the previous year’s
acreage, the private forecaster said today in a report to
clients.  Acreage may still be “overestimated, due to the slow
emergence of the currently planted wheat,” said  Justin Lewis , a
vice president at KIS Futures in Oklahoma City. Farmers in the
Plains may decide to replant damaged fields in the spring with
“more profitable” crops including corn and cotton, he said.  Wheat is the fourth-biggest U.S. crop, valued at $10.6
billion in 2009, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 