-- Wisconsin Stripping Ambac Assets, Policyholders Say
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2010-11-11T15:35:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/wisconsin-stripping-ambac-assets-policyholders-say-update1-.html
Ambac Assurance Corp. policyholders
said they would be stripped of billions of dollars of net
operating losses by Wisconsin regulators in a restructuring plan
that favors the bond insurer’s bankrupt parent,  Ambac Financial
Group Inc.   The Ambac companies have been using about $7 billion of so-
called NOLs to reduce taxes, and have been challenged by the
U.S. Internal Revenue Service. To try to shield the bond
insurance company’s share of the NOLs, Wisconsin regulators
placed the related liabilities in a segregated account. A state
court barred creditors and government entities from making
claims against the account, according to regulatory filings.  “The events of the past 48 hours have demonstrated clearly
that the Wisconsin Office of the Commissioner of Insurance
failed in its statutory duty to protect policyholders of Ambac
Assurance Corporation,” the policyholder group said yesterday in
a statement.  The policyholders, calling themselves the RMBS
Policyholders Group, referring to residential mortgage-backed
securities, said they had filed objections in Wisconsin Circuit
Court to the regulators’ workout plan for Ambac Assurance.  “Commissioner  Sean Dilweg  is disappointed that these hedge
funds choose to make inaccurate arguments and misleading
allegations that have already been rejected by the courts,”
according to an e-mail from  Tom Becker , a spokesman for the
Wisconsin regulators. The state regulators “look forward to
advancing the plan of rehabilitation in the pending confirmation
process with continued transparency,” the e-mail said.  Ambac Assurance, the operating company of Ambac Financial,
has about $57.6 billion in policies insuring credit derivatives
and other financial products that are being restructured by
Wisconsin regulators. Its parent, Ambac Financial, filed for
bankruptcy in Manhattan on Nov. 8. While state regulators handle
workouts of U.S. insurance companies, their holding companies
can go through federal bankruptcy courts.  The holding company case is In re Ambac Financial Group
Inc., 10-15973, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Linda Sandler  in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 