-- Oil Contango Poised to Diminish as Cushing Storage Grows: Energy Markets
-- B y   A a r o n   C l a r k
-- 2010-11-11T21:04:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/wti-contango-trade-may-dwindle-on-storage-surge-energy-markets.html
The longest period of contango in
the U.S. oil market may end as storage capacity expands by more
than a quarter at Cushing, Oklahoma, the biggest U.S. crude-
trading hub.  West Texas Intermediate oil for delivery next month traded
today at $1.88 a barrel less than the six-month contract on the
New York Mercantile Exchange, compared with $9.88 a barrel in
May. The contango, in which prompt oil is cheaper than later
delivery, has averaged $2.70 during the past five years.  Nymex futures nearest to expiration have traded below next-
month contracts since November 2008 as oil  stored  in Cushing
more than doubled. Companies have announced plans to build about
14 million barrels of tanks by the end of 2011. That would boost
capacity as much as 27 percent, based on an estimated 51 million
to 52 million of existing storage, according to  Bob Levin , a
managing director at CME Group, the owner of Nymex.  The additional storage “limits the opportunity for
contango,” said  Stephen Schork , the president of the Schork
Group Inc. in Villanova, Pennsylvania. “If you do have that
ability now to put those barrels into storage, you will see a
return back to fundamentals.”  Oil supplies at  Cushing  were 31.8 million barrels as of
Nov. 5, according to the Energy Department, down from a record-
high 37.9 million in May. Most companies assume operational
capacity is about 80 percent of total capacity, said  Michael Shore , a Nymex spokesman. Operational capacity is less because
some oils can’t be mixed and pipeline shipments require extra
tank space.  WTI ‘Pressure’  “Whenever inventory levels have been high, relative to the
capacity, what that’s done is put pressure on the front-month
pricing,” said  Jeffrey Dietert , an analyst with Simmons & Co.
International in Houston.  Plains All American Pipeline LP  has announced projects
adding about 5.4 million barrels in Cushing. The Gavilon Group
LLC said in June it plans to build 4 million barrels of tanks by
the third quarter of 2011.  Magellan Midstream Partners LP , which
acquired 7.8 million barrels of Cushing storage from BP Plc in
July, said in September it’s building another 4.25 million
barrels of storage by the end of 2011.  With new capacity, “you decrease the opportunity to
squeeze the market,” said  Carl Larry , president of Oil Outlooks
& Opinions LLC in Houston. “When you add more storage, you take
away that play.”  Pipeline Hub  Cushing, located about 54 miles (87 kilometers) northeast
of Oklahoma City, receives oil from West Texas and Oklahoma, as
well as domestic and foreign crude from the Gulf Coast and oil
sands from Canada. Oil is transported from Cushing primarily to
refineries in the Midwest. Cushing was established in 1983 as
the Nymex contract’s  delivery point  because of its existing
storage and pipelines, according to Shore.  Additional space may help align West Texas Intermediate, or
WTI, with other global benchmarks such as Brent, the pricing
basis for two-thirds of the world’s oil, said  Amrita Sen , a
London-based oil analyst at Barclays Capital.  WTI  traded  today at $1 less than Brent on the London-based
ICE Futures exchange, down from $5.71 a barrel in May. In the
five years through 2008, it averaged $1.26 more than Brent.  Additional tanks will lower prices for consumers, said  Kent Bayazitoglu , an analyst with Gelber & Associates, an energy-
trading consulting company in Houston. It will also increase
pipeline capacity because of added delivery options, helping
refiners process crude from North Dakota’s Bakken field and the
Alberta oil sands, he said.  Keystone Extension  TransCanada Corp. anticipates the extension to Cushing of
its Keystone pipeline that now runs from Hardisty, Alberta, to
Wood River and Patoka, Illinois, to be in service in the first
quarter of 2011, Ken Murchie, a director of pipeline
development, said in September. The Calgary-based  company 
expects the final leg of the pipe, which will connect Cushing to
the Gulf Coast, to be completed by early 2013, pending
regulatory approvals.  Canada, the largest U.S. crude supplier, may increase
production 21 percent to 3.29 million barrels a day in 2015 from
2.72 million in 2009, the  Canadian Association of Petroleum
Producers  said in June. North Dakota oil output  jumped  33
percent from January to 314,000 barrels a day in June, according
to the Energy Department in Washington.  “The big question is: Are all the people who take these
storage commitments going to be happy a year from now?” said
 Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston.
“Or are they just going to be paying a storage fee per month
and not be able to make any money?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Clark  in New York at 
 aclark27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  