-- Xbox Gets New Lease on Life With Cool Kinect: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2010-11-11T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/xbox-gets-new-lease-on-life-with-cool-kinect-rich-jaroslovsky.html
No, I won’t post the pictures of
myself that  Microsoft Corp .’s new Kinect add-on for the Xbox 360
snapped while I was using it. A man’s gotta retain some shred of
dignity.  So you won’t see me in my floppy college sweatshirt
grinning like an idiot as I land a few uppercuts in the “Kinect
Sports” boxing game. Or leaping to maneuver my raft in the
“River Rush” game in “Kinect Adventures.” And regarding my
moves in “Dance Central,” well, the less said the better.  Without the photographic evidence, you’ll just have to take
my word for it that the $149.99  Kinect  -- which turns your
entire body into a video-game controller -- is a wonderful
antidote to couch potato-itis. While it may not satisfy hard-
core gamers, for normal people the device is a gas.  It’s also something of a technological marvel. Motion-based
gaming was pioneered by Nintendo Co. with its 2006  Wii . More
recently,  Sony Corp . introduced the Move system for its
 PlayStation 3  console. Both of those require you to hold or move
a controller. The Kinect doesn’t -- you’re interacting directly
with the game, which makes for a quite different, and much more
immersive, experience.  Microsoft has been working on the Kinect and talking about
it for so long, giving demonstrations at tech conferences, that
its release last week felt a bit anticlimactic. At least until I
had a chance to play with it, when it became clear that this
gadget provides the now 5-year-old  Xbox 360  with an entirely new
dimension.  Black Bar  The Kinect is a motorized black bar housing a camera,
infrared projector, depth sensor and microphones, about 11
inches wide (28 centimeters) and 3 inches deep, that sits on a
small stand. You can place it either above or below your
television, anywhere from 2 feet to 6 feet off the ground.
Microsoft recommends putting it on a shelf or other stable
surface, though I balanced mine on the top edge of my TV.  Physical set-up is a snap: If you’ve got the latest version
of the Xbox, a single cable connects the two products. Owners of
older Xboxes must use the included brick-like power adapter.  Configuring the device is more involved. The Xbox prompts
you in a sort of Simon Says routine -- Stand here! No, there!
Raise your hand! Wave! -- as it places you properly and learns
to identify you. Once it does, Kinect remembers who you are
whenever you start to play, even to the point of recognizing you
if you jump into a game to replace another player.  ‘Eye of the Tiger’  You’ll need a sufficiently big area to play in, as every
game tiresomely reminds you. Microsoft recommends that a single
player stand 6 feet away from the sensor, 8 feet if two are
playing. If you get too close in the heat of battle, as I did in
a few boxing matches -- I’ve clearly got the “ Eye of the
Tiger ” -- you’re prompted to move back until you’re again
within proper range.  Many game options and commands are gesture-based: You
choose which game you want, how many players and the like by
hovering your hand in midair so that an icon on the screen makes
the appropriate selection. Move your hand too soon, and you have
to start over again, which gets old fast. Raising an arm to the
side will pause the game; so will simply walking out of the
Kinect’s line of sight.  Noticeable Time Lag  While the game play is smooth, there’s sometimes a
noticeable lag between your action -- kicking at an on-screen
soccer ball, timing a leap -- and the corresponding move of your
on-screen avatar. The delay isn’t enough to be annoying, and
after a while you’ll find yourself automatically compensating
for it -- just ask my table-tennis opponent once I got my timing
down on my sidearm smashes. But it does raise the question of
how suitable the Kinect will prove for serious, sophisticated
gamers, for whom a few milliseconds can be a big deal.  For now, at least, that isn’t an issue: The first crop of
Kinect games, which cost about $50 each, aren’t aimed at them
anyway. Instead, many of them are cartoony or otherwise family
friendly. About a dozen and a half titles were available at
launch, and many more are on the way.  Titles so far include Microsoft’s “Kinect Adventures,”
which is included with the device, and “Kinectimals,” where
you adopt, train and play with cuddly jungle creatures; “Dance
Central,” from  Viacom Inc .’s MTV Games; and  Ubisoft
Entertainment ’s “Your Shape: Fitness Evolved,” which provides
an array of routines from cardio workouts to tai chi.  The Kinect adds several other bells and whistles, including
limited voice recognition, video chatting and the ability to
share those pictures of you playing -- sort of a stop-action
video -- with your friends via the Xbox Live online service. New
Kinect Guide and Kinect Hub screens act as portals to some of
these features -- but, unfortunately, also add to an Xbox
navigational jumble that’s enough to make you nostalgic for
Windows 3.0.  But none of those cavils really matter. What does is that
Kinect takes gaming to a totally new place -- and provides a ton
of fun along the way.    Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 