-- Yuan Leads Asia Gains as Inflation Coincides With G-20 Calls: China Credit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-12T07:10:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/yuan-leads-asia-gains-as-inflation-coincides-with-g-20-calls-china-credit.html
China is allowing the yuan to lead
Asian currency gains this week as it struggles to contain the
fastest inflation in two years and faces calls for more balanced
global trade at a Group of 20 nations’ summit.  The yuan has advanced 0.2 percent in the last five days to
6.6395 per dollar in Shanghai and hit 6.6173 yesterday, the
strongest since 1993, as consumer-price data for October were
released. That’s the best performance among 25 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. China’s 12-month swap rate
reached the highest level since October 2008 and stocks tumbled
as investors stepped up bets the central bank will add to last
month’s interest-rate increase.  Inflation is gathering pace as funds pour into China, lured
by rising returns on local deposits, economic growth that’s
averaged 10 percent in the past five years and projected gains
in the yuan. The currency  regulator  said Nov. 9 it will force
banks to hold more foreign exchange and strengthen auditing of
overseas fund-raising, boosting efforts to curb inflows as the
central bank seeks to stem gains in consumer prices.  “It’s very clear our monetary policy has shifted from
loose to prudent,”  Zhu Jianfang , the Beijing-based chief
economist at Citic Securities Co., China’s largest listed
brokerage, said yesterday in an interview. “If there are big
capital inflows, it’ll put pressure on the yuan to appreciate.
Tighter monitoring will help ease part of the stress.”  The People’s Bank of China boosted its benchmark one-year
lending rate on Oct. 19 by a quarter of a percentage point to
5.56 percent, the first increase since 2007. Seventeen of 20
economists surveyed yesterday by Bloomberg said there may be
another rate rise before the end of this year. The median 
forecast for end-2011 was 6.31 percent, up from 6.06 percent
when Bloomberg last conducted a poll on Oct. 21.  Monetary Tightening  Consumer prices jumped 4.4 percent from a year earlier in
October, exceeding all 28 estimates in a Bloomberg survey,
according to government data published yesterday. The pace of
gains compares with 9.8 percent in India, where interest rates
have been raised six times this year. Brazil’s inflation rate is
5.2 percent and Russia’s is 7.5 percent, latest figures show.  Zhang Ping , head of China’s top economic and planning
agency, said this week that the government may miss its annual
inflation target of 3 percent as excessive global liquidity and
a weakening  dollar  drive raw-materials prices higher. The U.S.
and Japan are using near-zero interest rates and money-printing
to help avert recessions, spurring demand for higher-yielding
assets and commodities.  Credit Growth  The central bank will “flexibly use our traditional
monetary-policy tools,” Deputy Governor  Hu Xiaolian  said
yesterday at a forum in Beijing. Policy makers guided yields on
three-year bills higher at a sale yesterday to help drain cash
from the financial system and this week raised banks’ reserve-
requirement ratios by as much as a percentage point.  New lending  amounted to 587.7 billion yuan ($89 billion) in
October, bringing this year’s total to 6.88 trillion yuan,
according to data released yesterday. The government aims to
limit credit growth to 7.5 trillion yuan this year and a target
of 7 trillion is expected to be set for 2011, based on the
median estimate of 10 economists polled yesterday by Bloomberg.  One-year interest-rate  swaps , the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase  rate , rose 12 basis
points, or 0.12 percentage point, this week to 2.61 percent. The
yield on the 3.29 percent bond due September 2020 climbed 12
basis points to 3.98 percent, according to China Interbank Bond
Market. The rate on similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries increased
10 basis points to 2.63 percent.  ‘Overheating’  The  Shanghai Composite Index  of shares today plunged 5.3
percent, the most since August 2009. The Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index slumped 2.9 percent as Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
recommended clients cut their holdings of China’s Hong Kong-
listed  shares , citing concern the central bank will raise
borrowing costs to tame inflation.  “China’s story is an overheating story and the central
bank is stepping up policy tightening because of rising
inflation,” said  Tan Weisi , who oversees about 400 million yuan
($60 million) as head of Fortune SGAM Fund Management Co.’s
fixed-income department in Shanghai. “The interest carry trade
with the dollar is huge, adding to yuan appreciation.”  The yuan has gained 2.7 percent since a two-year peg to the
dollar ended in June and non-deliverable forwards show traders
expect a 2.4 percent advance to 6.4835 during the next 12 months.  President  Barack Obama  met yesterday with Chinese President
 Hu Jintao  at the G-20 talks in Seoul, seeking to discuss global
imbalances with a country whose record $28 billion  trade surplus 
with the U.S. in August heightened concern it’s keeping the yuan
undervalued. China will work towards a more flexible yuan, Hong
Lei, a spokesman for China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs, said
yesterday at a media briefing in Beijing.  ‘Global Obligations’  Former Federal Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan , in an
opinion piece in the Financial Times today, said that both the
U.S. and China are depressing their currencies, fueling the risk
of protectionist moves that would harm global trade and economic
growth. China’s accumulation of a record $2.65 trillion in
foreign-exchange reserves is holding down the yuan, he said.  “China has become a major global economic force in recent
years,” Greenspan wrote. “But it has not yet chosen to take on
the shared global obligations that its economic status
requires.”  Moody’s Upgrade  The cost of protecting China’s sovereign debt against
default for five years is less than that for the U.K. and France,
credit-default swaps show. The contracts held at 58 basis points
after Moody’s Investors Service yesterday upgraded the nation’s
foreign- and local debt ratings to Aa3, the fourth-highest
ranking. The company maintained a positive outlook.  Five-year credit-default swap contracts for top-rated yuan-
denominated bonds were little changed yesterday at 88 basis
points, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The contracts
pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a government or company
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  China’s efforts to tackle asset bubbles and avert the
spread of bad loans has meant the “likely containment and
effective management” of losses from record lending last year
to counter the financial crisis, Moody’s said in a statement.
That combined with China’s “resilient” economic growth were
reasons for the upgrade, the ratings company said.  The central bank will become “more aggressive” in
increasing rates and may allow faster yuan appreciation to curb
inflation, according to  Jun Ma , the Hong Kong-based chief
economist for Greater China at Deutsche Bank AG. The central
bank may raise interest rates by 75 basis points in the coming
12 months, Deutsche Bank said in a report.  “The need to combat near-term inflationary pressures has
been escalated sharply by Chinese policy makers,”  Qu Hongbin ,
co-head of economics research at HSBC Holdings Plc in Hong Kong,
wrote yesterday in a research note. “There’s still more room
for further quantitative tightening and another 25 basis points
of interest-rate hikes before 2010 closes.”  -- Sonja Cheung ,  Belinda Cao . With assistance from  Jay Wang  in
Singapore and  Sophie Leung  in Hong Kong. Editors:  Garfield Reynolds ,  James Regan   To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Sonja Cheung in Hong Kong +852-2977-6934 or
 scheung58@bloomberg.net .
Belinda Cao in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7570 or
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 