-- Yuan Rises, Swap Rates Jump as Inflation Accelerates, G-20 Meeting Starts
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-11T11:11:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-11/yuan-rises-swap-rates-jump-as-inflation-accelerates-g-20-meeting-starts.html
China’s yuan gained for a third day,
touching a 17 year-high, on speculation policy makers will
accept a stronger renminbi to help curb inflation and meet the
demands of trading partners.  The yuan rose 0.16 percent to 6.6238 per dollar as of 5:30
p.m. in Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange
Trading System. It earlier reached 6.6173, the highest level
since China unified official and market exchange rates in 1993.
China’s 12-month interest-rate swap rate, a fixed cost for
receiving the seven-day repurchase rate, climbed three basis
points to 2.60 percent.  A government report today showed consumer prices rose 4.4
percent from a year earlier, the fastest pace in two years and
more than the 4 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey. China posted a larger-than-forecast $27.1 billion trade
surplus for October yesterday, ahead of the start of the Group
of 20 nations’ leaders meeting in Seoul today at which
imbalances in the global economy will be discussed.  “China’s trade surplus and the G-20 meeting all combine to
point to a stronger Chinese currency,” said  Sean Callow , a
Sydney-based senior currency strategist at Westpac Banking Corp.  The People’s Bank of China raised the yuan’s reference rate
0.31 percent to 6.6242 per dollar today, the strongest level
since a peg against the dollar was scrapped in July 2005,
according to China Foreign Exchange Trade System. It was the
biggest daily gain in the reference rate since June 22.  Rate Outlook  The central bank will become “more aggressive” in
increasing rates and may allow faster yuan appreciation to curb
inflation, according to  Jun Ma , Hong Kong-based chief economist
for Greater China at Deutsche Bank AG. The central bank may
raise interest rates by 75 basis points in the coming 12 months,
Deutsche Bank said in a report.  China’s consumer-price inflation is likely to exceed 6
percent year-on-year by mid-2011, driven by rising food and
commodity prices, higher wages and changes to fuel-pricing
mechanisms, Credit Suisse Group AG said.  “The People’s Bank of China may raise interest rates by 50
basis points within weeks in response to deteriorating inflation
and falling real interest rates,” analyst Dong Tao wrote in a
report.  G-20 Meeting  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards were little changed
at 6.4382 per dollar, according to Bloomberg data. The currency
surged 0.51 percent yesterday, the biggest daily advance since
China abandoned a peg against the greenback in July 2005. Deputy
financial chiefs from the G-20 are discussing currency and
current-account issues at the Seoul summit, Kim Yoon Kyung, a
spokesman for South Korea’s G-20 preparation committee, said
yesterday.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said Nov. 8
that it is “overwhelmingly” in China’s interest to let the
yuan rise, as the House of Representatives attempts to impose
punitive duties on Chinese imports.  Moody’s Investors Service today raised China’s foreign and
local debt rating to Aa3, the fourth highest ranking. The
ratings company maintained a positive outlook.  Government bonds fell on speculation the central bank will
pursue further tightening measures after raising the yield on
its three-year bills for a second sale, according to a statement
on its website.  “The hike in the reserve requirement ratio yesterday has
strengthened investors’ expectation about more tightening
measures,” said Guo Caomin, a fixed-income analyst at
Industrial Bank Co. in Shanghai. “It’s very likely the central
bank will raise interest rates by the end of this year.”  Bond Yields Rise  The yield on the 3.28 percent note due August 2020 was
unchanged at 3.98 percent, according to China Interbank Bond
Market. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point. The central bank
sold three-year bills at 3 percent, compared with 2.85 percent
in the last sale.  The cost of protecting China’s sovereign debt against
default for five years fell three basis points to 53.5 basis
points, according to BNP Paribas prices for credit-default
swaps. Contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  -- Sonja Cheung  and  Patricia Lui . With assistance from Judy Chen
in Shanghai. Editors: Sandy Hendry, Andrew Janes  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Sonja Cheung in Hong Kong at +852-2977-6934 or
 Scheung58@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Lui at +65-6499-2658 or
 plui4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net ; 