-- Uralkali Sale Raises $948 Million for Rybolovlev
-- Maria Kolesnikova
-- 2007-10-12T16:26:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-10-12/uralkali-sale-raises-948-million-for-rybolovlev-update1-.html

          
          
             Russian billionaire  Dmitry Rybolovlev  raised $948 million by selling 12.75 percent of
potash maker  OAO Uralkali (URKA)  as investor demand spurred him to
increase the size of the offering.  
 Uralkali sold 270.8 million shares at $3.50 each, the
Berezniki, Urals-based company said in an e-mailed statement 
today. Rybolovlev, who canceled a share sale last year because
he didn't get the price he wanted, had planned to offer 10
percent of the stock. He retains more than 65 percent of the
fertilizer company, equivalent to about $6 billion.  
 ``The potash story has its own unique fundamentals and is
relatively immune to global credit concerns,''  Mikhail Stiskin ,
an analyst at Troika Dialog in Moscow, said in an e-mail.  
 Wheat and soybeans have been two of the top-three advancers
on the UBS Bloomberg CMCI Index this year. As prices rise,
farmers worldwide are sowing more seeds and will harvest at
least 3.3 percent more acres next year than they did this year,
said William Tierney, a former U.S. Department of Agriculture
economist.  
 The market for potassium-based fertilizers made by Uralkali
will grow about 4 percent a year, according to  Renaissance
Capital , which handled the offering with UBS AG and Citigroup
Inc.  
 Top of Range  
 Ukralkali sold at the top of its $2.80-$3.50 price range as
investors sought more than five times the number of shares on
offer, two people familiar with the transaction said yesterday.  
 ``The offer price reflects the overwhelming response of
investors to the offering of Uralkali and marks the beginning of
the next chapter in the company's history,'' Chief Executive
Officer Vladislav Baumgertner said in a statement today.  
 Uralkali will slash 2,500 jobs over the next three years,
or about 30 percent of the workforce, Renaissance said in a
report prepared for the sale.  
 The stock, which was as low as 5 cents five years ago, has
more than doubled this year. It rose 26 cents, or 6.5 percent,
to a record $4.25 on the Russian Trading System today, valuing
the company at $9 billion.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        