-- Vale to Invest $11 Billion in 2008 to Boost Output
-- Jeb Blount
-- 2007-10-12T06:30:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-10-12/vale-to-invest-11-billion-in-2008-to-boost-output-update3-.html

          
          
             Cia. Vale do Rio Doce , the world's
largest iron-ore producer, approved a 2008 global investment
budget of $11 billion to boost output of the steel-making
ingredient and other metals to meet soaring Chinese demand.  
 The budget, described by Vale as the largest annual
spending plan by a mining company, is part of a five-year, $59
billion program, the Rio de Janeiro-based company said in an Oct.
11 release distributed by PR Newswire. The funds will be spent
on more than 30 projects in  Brazil ,  Canada  and elsewhere.  
 Chief Executive Officer  Roger Agnelli  is competing with  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and Rio Tinto Group to boost output and meet
rising demand for iron ore and nickel led by  China , the world's
fastest growing major economy. Rising sales have driven both
commodities to records this year.  
 ``The decision to invest on such a huge scale is firmly
based on our confidence in the long-term fundamentals of the
global economy,'' the release said. There has been a
``structural change in the demand for minerals and metals.''  
 Vale's preferred shares, its most-traded class of stock,
fell 0.4 percent to 51.60 reais in Sao Paulo trading yesterday
before the plan was announced. The stock has gained 91 percent
this year, the  fourth-best performer  on the Bovespa index of the
63 most-traded stocks on the Sao Paulo Stock Exchange.  
 Output Target  
 Vale, which produced 264 million metric tons of  iron ore 
last year, plans to boost output to 450 million tons by the end
of 2012, the statement said, reiterating company forecasts.
Almost three-quarters of the total planned expenditure will be
invested in Brazil, it said.  
 Contract iron-ore prices, which have risen to a record for
five straight years, may gain a further 30 percent next year,
according to a Bloomberg survey of eight analysts last month.
Agnelli told reporters Oct. 2 that ``demand for nearly
everything'' is expanding.  
 The company's 2008 spending plan will concentrate on so-
called organic growth, a term that Vale uses to refer to the
expansion of existing mines or plants, or the development of
deposits already discovered. Vale will ``invest heavily'' in
railways and ports, needed to move products to buyers, and in
energy generation, the statement said.  
 Carajas, Goro  
 The company will spend $1.2 billion on Carajas, the world's
largest iron-ore mine; $723 million on Goro, a nickel
development on the French Pacific island of  New Caledonia ; and
$581 million on Onca Puma, a Brazilian nickel mine, the
statement said. A total of $349 million will be spent on
exploration, it said.  
 China, the world's largest iron-ore buyer, imported 284
million tons in the first nine months of 2007, 15 percent more
than a year earlier, the Asian nation's customs office said
today. Sinosteel Corp., China's second-biggest iron-ore trading
company, said Oct. 10 the country's demand is ``unstoppable.''  
 Agnelli, Chief Financial Officer  Fabio Barbosa  and other
Vale executives plan to brief investors, stock analysts and
journalists on the investment plan in New York on Oct 15.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
James Temple in  San Francisco  at 
 jtemple@bloomberg.net ;
Jeb Blount in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jblount@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs in Sydney at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        