-- Bank of Communications Will Join Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index
-- Hanny Wan
-- 2007-08-13T10:11:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-08-13/bank-of-communications-will-join-hong-kong-s-hang-seng-index.html

          
          
             Bank of Communications Ltd. , part
owned by  HSBC Holdings Plc (5) , will become the latest mainland
company to join  Hong Kong 's Hang Seng Index, HSI Services Ltd.
said.  
 The change will take place after the market closes Sept. 7,
HSI Services, which compiles the city's stock indexes, said in a
statement posted on its Web site. That will expand the Hang Seng
Index's membership to 40 from 39.  
 The addition of companies incorporated in mainland  China ,
known as H shares, reflects their growing importance in Hong
Kong. H shares at the end of July accounted for 25 percent of
the value of the 1,031 stocks listed on the Hong Kong stock
exchange's main board, up from 1.5 percent at the end of 1997,
the bourse's Web site shows.  
 Changes to the  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  will prompt funds that
mirror the benchmark, such as the HK$27 billion ($3.5 billion)
 Tracker Fund of Hong Kong , to adjust their holdings.  
 Along with the addition of Bank of Communications, the
representation of companies on the Hang Seng Index will be
capped at 15 percent, down from a current ceiling of 20 percent,
according to the statement.  
 The new limit will mean that HSBC Holdings Plc's weighting
will be cut to that level, and  China Mobile Ltd. (941) 's to 12 percent,
the statement said.  
 HSBC,  Europe 's biggest bank, accounts for 18 percent of the
Hang Seng Index, while China Mobile, the world's largest mobile-
phone operator by users, makes up 17 percent of the measure, HIS
Services said.  
 Chinese Companies  
 Shares of mainland companies have been eligible for
inclusion in the Hang Seng Index since August 2006 and so far
six have joined.  
 China Construction Bank Corp. (939) , the country's third-biggest
lender, Bank of China Ltd., the second largest, and China
Petroleum & Chemical Corp., the nation's No. 1 refiner, were all
made members in 2006.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. ,
China Life Insurance Co. and Ping An Insurance (Group) Co. were
added this year.  
 HSI Services, which determines membership based on criteria
such as market value and trading volume, said Feb. 9 that the
benchmark will gradually be expanded to 50 members.  
 Shares of Bank of Communications jumped 65 percent in the
past year and the company has a market value of HK$550 billion
as of today's close.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Hanny Wan in Hong Kong at 
 hwan3@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        