-- Business Books: Strain on U.S. grid to make blackouts common
-- By  Timothy Gardner
-- Sat Jun 16, 2007 10:38am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/06/16/businesspro-books-lightsout-dc-idUSN0718520720070616

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Most people in the United States only 
think about where electricity comes from when the lights go out 
suddenly. 

  But unless the antiquated transmission grid is fixed, 
expensive blackouts that bring modern life to a grinding halt 
will become ever more common, according to "Lights Out" (Wiley, 
$27.95), a new book by Jason Makansi.  Before the 1980s, power generating companies were 
responsible for the entire chain of supply, from securing fuel 
to transmitting power to homes. Deregulation, meant to increase 
competition, has busted that chain apart and left the wires and 
substations that deliver electricity as a "neglected 
stepchild," Makansi writes.  As demand for electricity rises, especially in the hot 
summer months when air conditioners are humming, the result is 
an overstretched grid, exploding transformers, brownouts and 
blackouts.  Transmission only accounts for about 10 percent of the 
industry's assets, and for decades utilities and regulators 
have focused on more expensive parts of the system. Now, even 
electricity generated in ultramodern plants is dependent on the 
brittle transmission grid. "Imagine driving a Maserati over a 
road littered with potholes," Makansi writes.  Other parts of the U.S. power system make transmission 
rough.  Financial engineering has displaced systems engineering, 
Makansi writes, the worst effect of which was the California 
power crisis in 2000 and 2001, when power trading deals led to 
inefficient transmission, rolling blackouts, and spiraling 
prices.  Dwindling resources such as supplies of domestic natural 
gas and the exhaustion of local coal mines are likely to 
exacerbate the problems in coming years.  The U.S. government plans to import large quantities of 
liquid natural gas, but supplies will be vulnerable to the 
whims of producer countries, much as OPEC has influenced oil 
prices.  Increasingly, power plants as far away as the Midwest and 
even the East are relying on Wyoming for coal. A train 
derailment, for example, could slow generation, putting stress 
on other parts of the grid to make up the difference.  Makansi offers solutions, not all of which will be popular. 
He favors boosting nuclear supplies from about 20 percent today 
to 50 percent because they emit virtually no greenhouse gases. 
But he devotes little ink to the possibility and cost of an 
accident at an older plant.  Power production from coal should be placed much closer to 
the mine mouth, he says, a move that could push power-hungry 
industry to relocate to the U.S. West.  Wind power won't take off unless there's more investment in 
how to store the energy, according to Makansi.  An innovation that is likely to be popular is for homes and 
businesses to add smart meters and other devices that would let 
them see how much power costs at particular times and adjust 
their use accordingly. If they are willing to have short power 
interruptions when the grid is stressed, or have usage hours 
like cell phone plans, they could pay much lower rates year 
round, he writes.  "It should be the consumer who decides how competition 
should unfold and not the regulator."