-- Securitas takes Q4 charge, clears way for new CEO
-- By  Patrick Lannin  and Anna Ringstrom
-- Fri Feb 9, 2007 5:13am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/02/09/businesspro-securitas-earnings-dc-idUSL0952145320070209

 

 STOCKHOLM  (Reuters) - Swedish security services firm 
Securitas AB ( SECUb.ST ) posted a fourth-quarter pretax loss on 
Friday after a large one-off charge. 


  But analysts said the firm was clearing the decks before a 
new chief executive took over and that the underlying business 
looked sound. The shares were down 0.8 percent at 102.75 crowns 
by 0927 GMT.  The group, which has spun off two divisions, took a one-off 
charge of 1.5 billion crowns ($213.6 million). Most of this 
related to its cash handling business, which it plans to float 
in the second half of this year.  The charge led to a pretax loss of 659 million Swedish 
crowns ($93.83 million). Before one-off items it made a pretax 
profit of 844 million crowns.  The average forecast in a Reuters poll of nine analysts was 
for a pretax profit of 864 million crowns. No non-recurring 
items were forecast in the poll.  Sales were 15.18 billion crowns versus a forecast 15.19 
billion.  "We are not used to seeing a clean up of the table ahead of 
the arrival of the new chief executive, normally it happens 
when he arrives," said Kaupthing analyst Henrik Frojd, 
referring to the arrival in March of new CEO Alf Goransson.  Frojd said taking the charge now removed some uncertainty, 
though he was surprised at its size, which he had expected at 
about 500 million. He said the underlying earnings were in line 
with expectations.  "It looks good in the underlying business, but all the 
one-offs needs loads of explanations. But things seem to be 
getting better, and it looks like they're just clearing the 
deck," an analyst who asked not to be named said.  Outgoing Chief Executive Thomas Berglund told a conference 
call he was upbeat on early 2007.  "The fourth quarter was fairly good in both the USA and 
Europe ... so I would not be surprised if the start of this 
year is quite good," he said.  After the spin offs, Securitas has trimmed down to core 
guarding operations in Europe and the United States.  Fourth-quarter earnings at the U.S. guarding operation were 
283 million crowns, versus 303 million forecast in the Reuters 
poll. The European division had earnings of 543 million crowns 
compared with an expected 579 million.
  ONE-OFFS IN GERMANY, U.K.  The largest share of the one-off item, 1.14 billion Swedish 
crowns ($162.3 million), related to its cash handling business, 
and mainly in its British unit.  Securitas made a provision of 61 million pounds ($119.9 
million) related to Securitas Cash Management Ltd of which its 
Loomis cash handling business owns 75 percent and HSBC ( HSBA.L ) 
and Barclays ( BARC.L ) have 12.5 percent each.  SCM took over the outsourced handling of cash for the 
banks, but when it began to fully automate transactions at the 
business, after years of manual processing, it discovered 
discrepancies between bank accounts and the automated system.  It said it was still investigating and it was not yet 
possible to evaluate its full liability or its ability to claim 
on insurance.  It had also informed the Stockholm stock exchange about the 
SCM situation and said that the bourse was to initiate a 
review.  The one-off charge also included provisions relating to the 
company's divested German cash handling business, which was 
sold to German group Heros in 2005.  Berglund said he expected no more provisions. "We have 
tried to get a clean cut with history and this is our best 
estimate of our outstanding issues right now," he said.