-- Carlsberg's Beer Sales in Russia Are Hurt by Weather
-- Meera Bhatia
-- 2008-10-03T12:37:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-10-03/carlsberg-s-beer-sales-in-russia-are-hurt-by-weather-update1-.html

          
          
             Carlsberg A/S (CARLA) , the Nordic region's
largest beermaker, said third-quarter volume sales dropped
``slightly'' in  Russia  because of poor weather, adding to
investor concern about the strength of local demand.  
 Carlsberg slid as much as 12 percent in Copenhagen trading,
extending a plunge of equal size yesterday. Net revenue climbed
at a ``double-digit'' pace in rubles because of its focus on
premium brands, the Valby, Denmark-based company said today in a
statement. Growth in the Russian market will be weaker in 2008
than it expects in coming years, Carlsberg said.  
 The beermaker made its announcement after competitor InBev
NV said today Russian demand is slowing as drinkers shun lower-
prices brews. Both companies' shares dropped yesterday as Coca-
Cola Hellenic Bottling Co. cut forecasts because of weaker
 consumer confidence  in Russia, where western European brewers
made takeovers in recent years as domestic markets stagnated.  
 ``If it's because of the rain, it's a one-time thing and a
lost income opportunity for the brewers, but it won't be an
indication for fundamentals,'' Jens Thomsen, an analyst at Jyske
Bank, said by telephone of the drop. ``If it's a result of
Russian consumers curbing their expenditure because of markets,
then the issue will last longer and it's more tricky.''  
 Stock Slides  
 Carlsberg fell 34.50 kroner, or 10 percent, to 312 kroner
at 2:33 p.m. local time, posting the fifth-biggest drop in the
 Dow Jones Stoxx 600 Index. (SXXP)  InBev, which has the second-largest
Russian market share, lost as much as 7 percent in Brussels.
 Heineken NV (HEIA) , the third-largest brewer in the country, slid as
much as 2.5 percent in Amsterdam.  
 The Danish beermaker controls 37 percent of the market in
Russia, where a 10th straight year of economic growth has boosted
incomes and enabled more drinkers to buy pricier imported brews.
Recent financial-market volatility that required the temporary
closing of the Russian stock market has hurt consumer confidence.  
 ``Carlsberg's Russian volumes were slightly down compared
to third quarter 2007, in line with the estimated market
development,'' the brewer said. The Russian market shrank
``slightly,'' mostly because of ``exceptionally poor weather,''
the statement shows.  
 The Russian beer market will expand this year by between 1
percent and 2 percent, less than its ``medium-term'' forecast of
3 percent to 5 percent, the company said.  
 Carlsberg has said industry beer sales in Russia climbed 2.4
percent in 2008's first half as markets shrank in the U.K.,
 France  and  Denmark , where it is based. The company gained full
control of St. Petersburg-based OAO Baltika Breweries in April as
part of its takeover of Scottish & Newcastle Plc with Heineken.  
 Russia's stock market closed on Sept. 16 and Sept. 17 as
the Finance Ministry rushed to provide loans to banks. Further
halts were ordered on Sept. 19, Sept. 24 and Sept. 30.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Bhatia in Oslo at 
 mbhatia2@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Keith Campbell at   k.campbell@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        