-- INSTANT VIEW: Bernanke says Fed ready for substantive action
-- 
-- Thu Jan 10, 2008 12:54pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/01/10/us-usa-economy-bernanke-idUSN1019737720080110

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Federal Reserve Chairman Ben 
Bernanke said on Thursday that the U.S. economic outlook had 
worsened, and more interest rate cuts may be needed. 

 "In light of recent changes in the outlook for and the 
risks to growth, additional policy easing may be necessary," 
Bernanke said in prepared remarks. "We stand ready to take 
substantive additional action as needed to support growth and 
to provide adequate insurance against downside risks."
  
KEY POINTS: 
* Bernanke says baseline outlook for 2008 has worsened, 
downside risks more pronounced 
* Bernanke says December employment report 'disappointing'; 
mistake to read too much into one report 
COMMENTS: 
ALAN RUSKIN, CHIEF INTERNATIONAL STRATEGIST, RBS GREENWICH 
CAPITAL, GREENWICH, CONNECTICUT: "The wires have almost no headlines to counter the dovish 
headlines. The headlines pay only mild lip service to inflation
 pressures in the comment that 'Fed to monitor inflation, price 
expectations', that looks weak in contrast to the headline 'Fed 
paying particular attention' to housing". "This is more evidence that Bernanke remains extremely 
worried that the credit accelerator feedback from credit to the 
real economy and back again has begun in earnest. The mix of 
Trichet hawkish and Bernanke dovish reinforces the euro/dollar 
rally though it does not look like it has obvious legs to take 
out $1.4825 immediately." 
DAVID RESLER, CHIEF ECONOMIST, NOMURA SECURITIES INTERNATIONAL, 
NEW YORK: "It is hardly surprising that he is acknowledging that the 
economy is facing considerable downside risk, and he is saying 
incoming information has worsened and the downside risks have 
become more pronounced. "It is probably likely to solidify expectations around what 
is probably a consensus anyway, which is that the Fed will move 
50 basis points (at the January policy meeting). That is what a 
lot of people think they will do, and now more people will 
think that way." 
ANGEL MATA, MANAGING DIRECTOR OF LISTED EQUITY TRADING, STIFEL 
NICOLAUS CAPITAL MARKETS, BALTIMORE: "Everybody has been waiting for this. It's important for 
him to lead emotionally as well as lead with rate cuts. I think 
he's come to terms with the fact that while inflation may be a 
concern down the road, he has to take care of the train that's 
coming at him right now, which is the fear of a recession. The 
market was in a free fall, and he's basically given investors 
hope, and I think you'll see a pretty strong rally." 
STEVE GOLDMAN, MARKET STRATEGIST, WEEDEN & CO., GREENWICH, 
CONNECTICUT: "This is what the markets were hoping he would say and it 
qualifies that the Fed will likely cut rates by 50 basis 
points. Reaction to these comments is reassuring. "He also made some comments that he would be monitoring 
inflation expectations, not so much inflation, so he's trying 
to look beyond the immediate concerns, and if the outlook is 
not so alarming then that could give him more leeway." 
DAVID POWELL, CURRENCY STRATEGIST, IDEAGLOBAL, NEW YORK: "It's definitely dollar negative and confirms the market's 
view that we're going to get 50 basis points of rate cuts in 
January. 'Substantive additional action' in particular sounds a 
lot more like 50 basis points than 25. His tone overall is 
dovish, and that's negative for the dollar, positive for 
equities and a help to high-yielders. "When one looks back at Trichet's comments, it's clear 
we're getting very different tones from the two central 
bankers. Trichet said the ECB didn't even talk about the 
possibility of easing. Bernanke is delivering the exact 
opposite message, and that points to further upside for 
euro/dollar."