-- Bernanke's prepared speech to housing group
-- 
-- Thu Jan 10, 2008 12:37pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/01/10/us-usa-fed-bernanke-text-idUSN1019790320080110

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - Federal Reserve Chairman Ben 
Bernanke's speech on "Financial Markets, the Economic Outlook, 
and Monetary Policy," before the Women in Housing and Finance 
and Exchequer Club: 

 " Since late last summer, the financial markets in the 
United States and in a number of other industrialized countries 
have been under considerable strain. The turmoil has affected 
the prospects for the broader economy, principally through its 
effects on the availability and terms of credit to households 
and businesses. Financial market conditions, in turn, have been 
sensitive to the evolving economic outlook, as investors have 
tried to assess the implications of incoming economic 
information for future earnings and asset values. These 
interactions have produced a volatile situation that has made 
forecasting the course of the economy even more difficult than 
usual. 
In my remarks today I will provide some perspective on recent 
developments in the economy and financial markets, focusing on 
conditions in the United States. I will then discuss the Fed's 
recent policy actions and our plans for addressing the economic 
and financial challenges ahead. 
Housing, the Subprime Mortgage Market, and the Financial 
Turmoil 
As you will recall, the U.S. economy experienced a mild 
recession in 2001.  During the ensuing recovery, above-trend 
growth was accompanied by rising rates of resource utilization, 
particularly after the expansion picked up steam in mid-2003. 
Notably, the civilian unemployment rate declined from a high of 
6.3 percent in June 2003 to 4.4 percent in March 2007. As the 
economy approached full employment, the Federal Open Market 
Committee (FOMC), the monetary policymaking arm of the Federal 
Reserve System, was faced with the classic problem of managing 
the mid-cycle slowdown--that is, of setting policy to help 
guide the economy toward sustainable growth without inflation. 
With that objective, the FOMC implemented a sequence of rate 
increases, beginning in mid-2004 and ending in June 2006, at 
which point the target for the federal funds rate was 5.25 
percent--a level that, in the judgment of the Committee, would 
best promote the policy objectives given to us by the Congress. 
The economy continued to perform well into 2007, with solid 
growth through the third quarter and unemployment remaining 
near recent lows. Indicators of the underlying inflation trend, 
such as core inflation, showed signs of moderating. 
However, the situation was complicated by a number of factors. 
Continued increases in the prices of energy and other 
commodities, together with high levels of resource utilization, 
kept the Committee on inflation alert. But perhaps an even 
greater challenge was posed by a sharp and protracted 
correction in the U.S. housing market, which followed a 
multiyear boom in housing construction and house prices. 
Indicating the depth of the decline in housing, according to 
the most recent available data, housing starts and new home 
sales have both fallen by about 50 percent from their 
respective peaks. 
In all likelihood, the housing contraction would have been 
considerably milder had it not been for adverse developments in 
the subprime mortgage market. Since early 2007, financial 
market participants have been focused on the high and rising 
delinquency rates of subprime mortgages, especially those with 
adjustable interest rates (subprime ARMs). Currently, about 21 
percent of subprime ARMs are ninety days or more delinquent, 
and foreclosure rates are rising sharply. 
Although poor underwriting and, in some cases, fraud and 
abusive practices contributed to the high rates of delinquency 
that we are now seeing in the subprime ARM market, the more 
fundamental reason for the sharp deterioration in credit 
quality was the flawed premise on which much subprime ARM 
lending was based: that house prices would continue to rise 
rapidly. When house prices were increasing at double-digit 
rates, subprime ARM borrowers were able to build equity in 
their homes during the period in which they paid a (relatively) 
low introductory (or "teaser") rate on their mortgages. Once 
sufficient equity had been accumulated, borrowers were often 
able to refinance, avoiding the increased payments associated 
with the reset in the rate on the original mortgages. However, 
when declining affordability finally began to take its toll on 
the demand for homes and thus on house prices, borrowers could 
no longer rely on home-price appreciation to build equity; they 
were accordingly unable to refinance and found themselves 
locked into their subprime ARM contracts. Many of these 
borrowers found it difficult to make payments at even the 
introductory rate, much less at the higher post-adjustment 
rate. The result, as I have already noted, has been rising 
delinquencies and foreclosures, which will have adverse effects 
for communities and the broader economy as well as for the 
borrowers themselves.