-- New Zealand May Lose `Hobbit' Film Over Union Dispute, Warner Says
-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 2010-10-22T03:26:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/-hobbit-may-not-be-filmed-in-new-zealand-amid-actor-dispute-studio-says.html
Warner Bros Productions Ltd may move
the $500 million “Hobbit” movie from New Zealand, a blow to
the nation’s tourism and film industries made famous by the
“Lord of the Rings” trilogy.  Prime Minister  John Key  plans to meet Warner executives
next week in a bid to keep the two-film prequel to the Academy
Award-winning trilogy in New Zealand, spokesman Kevin Taylor
said in a telephone interview. The government may increase tax
breaks for making movies, the New Zealand Herald reported.  Warner is searching for other film locations after actors’
unions threatened a workers’ boycott over contracts. The Rings
trilogy added about NZ$350 million ($261 million) to New
Zealand’s economy in the three years to March 2002, and boosted
tourism as fans flocked to locations where Frodo battled Orcs in
a recreation of J.R.R. Tolkien’s Middle Earth.  “The actions of these unions have caused us substantial
damage and disruption and forced us to consider other filming
locations,”  Paul McGuire , a Los Angeles-based spokesman for
Warner, said in an e-mailed statement. “Alternative locations
are still being considered.”  The feud is the latest in a series of woes to delay the
filming of “The Hobbit”, the tale of Bilbo Baggins’ quest to
win treasure guarded by Smaug the dragon. Guillermo del Toro
quit as director in May and a Wellington studio where parts of
the film were to be shot caught fire earlier this month.  Peter Jackson , the director of “The Hobbit” and the
“Lord of the Rings” films, yesterday said that Warner
executives planned to visit New Zealand next week and move the
production offshore. The Academy Award-winner blamed the actions
of New Zealand Actors’ Equity, which is backed by Australia-
based Media, Entertainment and Arts Alliance.  Union Talks  “Seemingly overnight, NZ Actors Equity shredded the
reputation of a burgeoning industry, which has been over forty
years in the making,” Jackson said in a statement.  Warner received confirmation yesterday that the actors’
proposed boycott had been lifted by Actors’ Equity, it said in
the statement. The union is seeking agreement on basic terms and
conditions such as hours and breaks, according to a statement
from the New Zealand Council of Trade Unions yesterday.  The “Lord of the Rings” trilogy generated $2.9 billion in
worldwide box-office receipts and another $3 billion from DVDs,
merchandise and other sources. New Zealand’s film industry was
worth NZ$2.8 billion in 2009, according to a  Statistics New
Zealand  report.  Wellington, New Zealand’s capital, renamed itself Middle
Earth for the first film’s premiere in December 2001. The city’s
newspaper changed its name to the Middle Earth Post for a day.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Chris Bourke  at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson   iwilson2@bloomberg.net  