-- L'Oreal Sales Increase 15%, Beating Estimates, Boosted By Euro's Weakness
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2010-10-21T18:20:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/l-oreal-sales-increase-15-beating-estimates-boosted-by-euro-s-weakness.html
L’Oreal SA , the world’s largest
cosmetics maker, said third-quarter sales rose 15 percent,
beating analysts’ estimates, as the euro’s decline boosted the
value of revenue in the U.S. and other markets.  Revenue increased to 4.85 billion euros ($6.8 billion) from
4.23 billion euros a year earlier, the Paris-based company said
today in a statement released after the market closed. The
average  estimate  of six analysts compiled by Bloomberg was 4.73
billion euros. Excluding currency fluctuations and acquisitions,
sales gained 5.8 percent.  L’Oreal said in May it would benefit from a weak euro in
2010 as it converts earnings from other currencies and pays for
“a non-negligible” portion of its costs in euros. The dollar
was on average 11 percent stronger against the euro in the third
quarter compared with the year-earlier period.  “2010 will be quite a good bounce-back year for L’Oreal
after a terrible 2009,”  Andrew Wood , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein, wrote in an Oct. 19 report. He has an
“underperform” recommendation on the stock.  L’Oreal  climbed  2.49 euros, or 2.9 percent, to 87.43 euros
in Paris trading today. The stock has gained 12 percent this
year, giving the maker of Garnier shampoo and Men Expert
moisturizer a market value of 52.4 billion euros.  “We are confirming our aim of strengthening, over the full
year, our worldwide positions and the profitability of our
businesses,” L’Oreal Chief Executive Officer  Jean-Paul Agon 
said in the statement.  L’Oreal is confident it can grow faster than the cosmetics
market, which may expand between 3 percent and 4 percent this
year, Agon said on a conference call.  Emerging Markets  Revenue, excluding currency shifts and acquisitions, gained
1.5 percent in western Europe, 3.8 percent in North America and
11 percent in so-called new markets, led by Latin America, where
sales jumped 18 percent. “Brazil is on fire,” Agon said.  L’Oreal , which opened its first factory in Russia in
September, is chasing growth in emerging markets, where demand
for beauty products has surged as people earn more money. Sales
grew 2.9 percent in eastern Europe and 12 percent in the Asia-
Pacific and Africa and Middle East regions, the company said.  Sales  at L’Oreal’s luxury division, whose products include
Giorgio Armani scents and Shu Uemura cleansing oils, climbed 5.7
percent, excluding currencies and acquisitions. L’Oreal is
slightly ahead of the luxury market’s growth, which may rise 5
percent to 6 percent this year, Agon said. Third-quarter revenue
at the consumer products unit, the French company’s largest
source of income, gained 6.5 percent on the same basis.  Salon Hair  Sales of professional products such as salon hair
treatments increased 2.9 percent, boosted by the introduction of
Inoa hair colorants to the U.S. and other markets, L’Oreal said.
L’Oreal is gaining market share in the category, Agon said.  Growth in sales of active cosmetics including Inneov
nutritional supplements for skin and hair was 3.4 percent.  The
Body Shop  sales fell 0.6 percent, while Galderma sales surged 27
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 