-- La Nina Drought in Southeast, Lower Midwest May Worsen, Climatologist Says
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-10-21T17:58:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/la-nina-drought-in-southeast-lower-midwest-may-worsen-climatologist-says.html
A drought in the U.S. Southeast and
the lower Midwest may worsen in the next few months as a La Nina
weather pattern curbs rainfall, according to the National
Drought Mitigation Center in Lincoln, Nebraska.  Parts of Indiana, Kentucky, Tennessee and Alabama recorded
less than 50 percent of normal rainfall in the July-through-
September period, the federally funded center said in a
 quarterly report.  Airflows may give relief to some areas of the
Midwest while contributing to  drought  in the South and
Southeast, the organization forecast.  “The La Nina pattern historically has been responsible for
warm and dry conditions over the southern United States and a
wet signal over the Ohio River Valley,” Brian Fuchs, a
climatologist, said in the report.  The Midwest produces most of the nation’s two biggest
crops, corn and soybeans, and much of its wheat, while the
Southeast is a major cotton-growing region. As of yesterday,
corn prices were up 38 percent this year, soybeans advanced 17
percent and cotton had gained 51 percent, as production
forecasts were cut, partly because of adverse weather.  Most of the South and Southeast will be warmer and drier
than average through February, mainly because of a “moderate to
strong La Nina,” according to the annual winter-outlook  report 
released today by the  National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration ’s  Climate Prediction Center . La Nina, caused by a
cooling of the equatorial Pacific Ocean, can bring “weather
extremes” to parts of the U.S., according to NOAA.  The interior Southwest to the Gulf Coast and Carolinas may
have a “non-winter,” especially in January and February, with
above-normal temperatures and below-average precipitation,
according to  Joe Bastardi , a forecaster with AccuWeather Inc.  From Dallas to Atlanta, rainfall will probably be about 10
percent to 25 percent below normal this winter, Bastardi said by
telephone today from State College, Pennsylvania.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alan Bjerga  in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net ;
 Elizabeth Campbell  in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  