-- Labor Department Rule Expands Adviser Responsibility for 401(k) Plans
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2010-10-21T18:40:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/labor-department-rule-expands-adviser-responsibility-for-401-k-plans.html
The U.S. Department of Labor wants
to expand accountability for employer-sponsored retirement plans
to investment advisers.  The proposed ruled announced today would broaden the
definition of “fiduciary” to further protect 401(k)
participants from conflicts of interest, such as investment
advisers recommending an option that brings in higher fees or
promotes their own firm’s funds, according to the department. A
fiduciary under Labor Department rules must act in the best
interest of the worker in the retirement plan.  “This current rule simply is not working,” said Assistant
Labor Secretary  Phyllis Borzi  in a conference call today.  Those giving advice on an investment would be considered a
fiduciary under the rule, Borzi said. “If all they are doing is
selling their product then they aren’t going to be a
fiduciary,” she said. Employers generally have been held
accountable for ensuring participants in 401(k) plans are given
advice and investment choices in their best interest.  The regulation would classify advisers as fiduciaries even
if they don’t provide advice on a regular basis. The measure
would apply to employer-sponsored retirement plans and
individual retirement accounts, according to the department. A
comment period will last until Jan. 20, 2011, Borzi said.  “We are reviewing the proposal,” said Rachel McTague,
spokeswoman for the Investment Company Institute, a Washington-
based mutual-fund trade group.  $3 Trillion  An estimated 72 million participants have 401(k)-type
retirement plans with assets totaling about $3 trillion,
according to the Labor Department.  Last week the Labor Department announced regulations that
will require 401(k) plan providers to provide investors
information on administrative and investment fees charged to
their accounts in their in quarterly statements by Jan. 1, 2012.  Boston-based Fidelity Investments, Vanguard Group Inc. of
Valley Forge, Pennsylvania, and Baltimore-based  T. Rowe Price
Group Inc.  are among the largest providers of 401(k) plans,
according to Morningstar Inc., a Chicago-based research firm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Collins  in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Levinson at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 