-- Abu Dhabi Shares Head for Highest Close Since April on Profit Expectations
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2010-10-21T12:17:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/abu-dhabi-shares-head-for-highest-close-since-april-on-profit-expectations.html
Abu Dhabi  shares  rose for a fourth
time this week as banks advanced on investor speculation third-
quarter profit will beat expectations.  Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank PJSC  surged to the highest close in
almost two years and  Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank PJSC  gained the
most since Oct. 11. The chief executive officer of ADCB, the
United Arab Emirates’ third-biggest bank, said it aims to
diversify lending after being hurt by Dubai World’s $24.9
billion debt restructuring. ADCB is scheduled to announce
earnings next week. The  ADX General Index  rose 0.8 percent to
2,807.5 at the close in Abu Dhabi. The measure gained 1.8
percent  this week .  “There are positive expectations for third-quarter
earnings, especially for banks,” said Waleed Al Khateeb, senior
finance manager at Dubai-based Daman Securities LLC.  ADIB, the U.A.E.’s second-biggest bank complying with
Shariah banking principles, has jumped 4.6 percent since Oct. 18
when it said net income rose 31 percent. The shares increased
2.2 percent to 3.2 dirhams today, the highest close since
November 2008.  National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC,  the U.A.E.’s
second-largest lender, may see profit rise 12 percent, according
to the median estimate of four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
The ADX Banks & Finance Index climbed 0.8 percent, the most in
more than a week.  ADCB advanced 2.5 percent to 2.48 dirhams. Third-quarter
profit may soar sevenfold to 245 million dirhams, according to
the median estimate of four analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Dubai’s  DFM General Index  dropped 0.7 percent, Kuwait’s
 gauge  lost 0.8 percent and Bahrain’s measure declined 0.1
percent. Qatar’s  QE Index  and Oman’s  MSM30 Index  added 0.1
percent. Saudi Arabia’s market was closed for the weekend.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zahra Hankir  in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  