-- Actelion Sets $827 Million Share Repurchase as Takeover Speculation Swirls
-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2010-10-21T05:41:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/actelion-sets-827-million-share-repurchase-as-takeover-speculation-swirls.html
Actelion Ltd. , facing takeover
speculation after a 29 percent slump in its share price this
year, said it plans to buy back as much 800 million Swiss
francs ($827 million) in shares over the next three years  Actelion “believes that the share repurchase program
represents an appropriate use of the company’s cash, while
allowing sufficient flexibility for continued investments in
research and development, in-licensing and potential M&A
opportunities,” the Allschwil-based company said today in an e-
mailed statement.  The company’s shares have climbed 32 percent since Sept. 30
on speculation that it may be bought. The drugmaker’s board has
formed a committee to review alternatives and hired investment
bankers at  Moelis & Co.  for advice, according to people familiar
with the situation.  Actelion also reported a 3 percent decline in net  income  to
105.3 million Swiss francs, compared with 108.5 million francs a
year earlier. Analysts expected profit of 107 million francs,
according to the average of 13 estimates compiled by Bloomberg
over the past month. Sales rose 3.5 percent to 446 million
francs.  The company said it expects pricing pressure to lead to a
mid-single-digit increase in product sales next year. Non-GAAP
operating profit is likely to be below this year’s level,
Actelion said.  Forecast  The company reiterated its forecast for 2010, saying it
expects sales to rise more than 10 percent in local currencies
and operating profit growth to be between 21 percent and 24
percent. The company has said it expects global health-care
reform to reduce growth by about 3 percentage points this year.  A strong franc weighed on profit by reducing the value of
sales generated in other currencies. Higher costs also
contributed to the decline.  Actelion formed the board committee after a decline in its
share price this year made the company vulnerable to a takeover,
a person familiar with the situation said. Drugmakers  Bristol-
Myers Squibb Co. ,  GlaxoSmithKline Plc ,  Roche Holding AG  and
 Amgen Inc.  have informally contacted Actelion about possible
collaborations, according to the person. Spokesmen for the
companies have declined to comment.  Actelion gets most of its revenue from Tracleer, which
dominates the market for  pulmonary arterial hypertension , or
PAH. Sales of the drug rose 12 percent in the third quarter to
almost 400 million francs, below the median analyst estimate of
411 million francs. PAH is a potentially fatal condition that
causes high blood pressure in the artery moving blood from the
heart to the lungs.  Actelion’s effort to expand use of Tracleer suffered a
setback in March when the drug failed in a clinical test against
a rare lung ailment called idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. The
Swiss company said last month its experimental clazosentan
medicine also failed to meet the main goal of a study in
patients who had bleeding in the brain. The company said today
it will stop recruiting patients for a planned second trial.  The stock had dropped 29 percent since January 1 on Sept.
30, when it reached the lowest point this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dermot Doherty  in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  