-- Swiss Market Index Advances; Swatch, SGS Outweigh Actelion, Credit Suisse
-- B y   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2010-10-21T15:51:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/actelion-credit-suisse-inficon-novartis-may-move-swiss-equity-preview.html
Swiss stocks increased for a fifth
day, as gains in luxury-goods makers and  SGS SA  outweighed
losses by  Actelion Ltd.  and  Credit Suisse Group AG .  Swatch Group AG  advanced 4.4 percent as Swiss watch exports
rose last month.  SGS  rose 2.4 percent as  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc . lifted its price estimate. Actelion sank 6.2 percent after
posting a decline in quarterly income. Credit Suisse fell 4.5
percent after Switzerland’s second-largest bank reported profit
and trading revenue that missed analysts’ projections.  The  Swiss Market Index  added 0.5 percent to 6,512.19 at the
5:30 p.m. close in Zurich, trimming its decline from this year’s
high on April 15 to 6.5 percent. The broader Swiss Performance
Index rose 0.6 percent today.  “There was a mixed bag of earnings in Switzerland,” said
 Benno Galliker , a trader at  Luzerner Kantonalbank AG . “Credit
Suisse was clearly disappointing. On the other side the numbers
from Novartis were encouraging but a lot was already in the
price. Overall, there is a sense that quite a lot of investors
are underinvested in this market and every setback is a chance
to buy some shares.”  Swatch, the maker of Omega and Breguet watches, gained 4.4
percent to 378.3 francs. Swiss watch exports rose 25.5 percent
in September, the Federal Customs Offices said today in an e-
mailed statement.  Cie Financiere Richemont SA , Switzerland’s
largest jewelry maker, increased 3.8 percent to 48.56 francs.  “The Swatch Group and Richemont will continue to post an
excellent performance in the foreseeable future,” Helvea SA
said in a note.  SGS, Novartis  SGS SA advanced 2.4 percent to 1,588 francs. The world’s
biggest inspection company had its price estimate increased to
1,637 francs from 1,485 francs at Goldman Sachs.  Adecco SA  increased 1.4 percent to 56.7 francs. Shares of
the world’s largest supplier of temporary workers “are
benefiting from yesterday’s news flow from Manpower,” said
Emanuele Oggioni, who helps oversee about $1 billion at Saint
George Capital Management in Lugano, Switzerland. He also noted
that “Adecco’s operating leverage may positively surprise
analysts that usually underestimate it.”  Inficon Holding AG  rose 4.3 percent to 146 francs. The
supplier of portable poison-gas detectors lifted its guidance
for the full year after posting “very good results” in the
third quarter, the company said in a statement.  Kuoni Reisen Holding AG  gained 1.7 percent to 426 francs.
Goldman Sachs added the largest Swiss travel company to its
“conviction buy” list, citing “revenue and margin
expansion.”  Actelion, Credit Suisse  Actelion lost 6.2 percent to 48.79 francs. The company
reported a 3 percent decline in net income to 105.3 million
Swiss francs, compared with 108.5 million francs a year earlier.
Analysts expected profit of 107 million francs, according to the
average of 13 estimates compiled by Bloomberg over the past
month.  Chief Executive Officer  Jean-Paul Clozel  said the Swiss
drugmaker’s “future is to remain independent”  Credit Suisse declined 4.5 percent to 41.41 francs after
reporting a 74 percent decline in third-quarter profit as lower
client activity curbed trading revenue.  Net income fell to 609 million Swiss francs from 2.35
billion francs a year earlier, the Zurich-based bank said in a
statement today. Earnings missed the 861 million-franc median
estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Credit Suisse has underperformed the sector by 8 percent
since August in dollar terms, but we fear there is little here
to prompt an immediate change in fortune,” Keefe, Bruyette &
Woods Ltd. said in a note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 