-- ADB Plans 2011 Bond Sale for Water Projects to Halt Crisis in Asian Region
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o
-- 2010-10-21T05:03:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/adb-plans-water-bonds-next-year-to-lend-25-billion-on-asian-supply-crisis.html
The Asian Development Bank may issue
a bond next year solely for water projects in a bid to lend as
much as $25 billion over the next decade amid persistent supply
problems in the region.  “Crisis is already here in Asia,” said  Arjun Thapan , a
special adviser for infrastructure and water at the Manila-based
lender. “We’d be very glad to do another bond as soon as the
market is ready and 2011 is possible,” he said, while adding
that the size of any issuance is still being considered.  The bank has warned about half a billion Asians have no
access to safe water supply with most wastewater left untreated,
polluting rivers and lakes. By 2030, water demand in the region
will exceed supply by 40 percent unless countries improve the
treatment and management of fresh water supply and wastewater,
Thapan said yesterday in a phone interview.  The ADB this year hired  Daiwa Securities Group Inc.  to sell
Australian dollar and South African rand securities called Water
Bonds to Japanese investors to help finance $8.7 billion of
water projects in Asia-Pacific until 2012. The bank raised more
than $600 million from the first issuance, Thapan said.  The lender aims to invest as much as $2.5 billion for water
on average annually through 2020, while details of the  plan  are
still being ironed out, Thapan said. The bank will focus on
wastewater treatment projects that allow countries to reuse the
resource for irrigation and industries, he said.  $1.2 Trillion Business  Global water businesses such as supplying clean water,
sewage treatment and desalination of seawater will grow to 100
trillion yen ($1.2 trillion) by 2025 from 60 trillion yen in
2005, according to an estimate provided by Toray Industries Co.,
the world’s third-biggest maker of reverse osmosis membranes
used in water filtration systems.  Japanese companies accelerated investment in water projects
abroad to boost income, as population decline slows demand at
home. A group led by Mitsubishi Corp. and JGC Corp. agreed in
May to buy United Utilities Australia Pty for A$225 million from
United Utilities Group Plc, Britain’s largest publicly traded
water company. Mitsui & Co. and Singapore-based Hyflux Ltd.
joined forces to buy stakes in four treatment plants in China.  “Japanese technologies and water management skills are
something that need to be shared in an expanded way with
developing countries,” Thapan said. “Water isn’t an endless,
elastic resource.”  Cleaner Energy  The bank also aims to boost financing for clean-energy
devices such as solar and wind power generators, to strengthen
the region’s energy supply and cut dependence on coal, oil and
natural gas.  The ADB is studying the sale of $500 million worth of so-
called Clean Energy Bonds annually for at least five years to
fund new plants,  Seethapathy Chander , head of the bank’s energy
community of practice, said this week.  The bank plans to invest $2 billion a year in projects
including solar and wind-power farms in five years starting 2013,
said Chander, who leads the division that advises the ADB’s
operating departments on energy policy and projects. That
compares with $1.5 billion the bank invested this year and $1.26
billion in 2009, he said in an interview.  Cleaner and more efficient use of energy will allow the
region to cut hydrocarbon imports “by significant amounts” and
improve energy security, Chander said. “Energy security is one
of the pillars of our policy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shigeru Sato  in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
 Shingo Kawamoto  at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net . 