-- Adebayor Scores 3 in Manchester City's Europa League Win; Liverpool Draws
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2010-10-21T22:03:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/adebayor-scores-3-in-manchester-city-s-europa-league-win-liverpool-draws.html
Emmanuel Adebayor  scored three goals
as Manchester City beat Lech Poznan 3-1 to move to the top of
Group A in soccer’s Europa League.  Sporting Lisbon, CSKA Moscow, Zenit St. Petersburg,
Stuttgart and Porto won for the third time to maintain their
perfect starts to the group stage of Europe’s second-tier club
competition, while former champions Liverpool and Juventus tied.  Adebayor scored twice in the first 25 minutes at the City
of Manchester Stadium. After Joel Tshibamba scored five minutes
into the second half for the visitor, Adebayor completed his hat
trick in the 73rd minute.  The win gives City seven points, three more than Lech.
Juventus picked up its third straight draw, 1-1 at Red Bulls
Salzburg in the other group game.  Sporting Lisbon routed Gent 5-1 to take a five-point lead
in Group C, while CSKA Moscow won 3-0 in Palermo to stay atop
Group F. Group G leader Zenit St. Petersburg beat Hajduk Split
2-0, and Stuttgart defeated Getafe 1-0 in Group H. Porto stayed
perfect in Group L with a 3-1 win at Besiktas even after having
two players red-carded.  Defending champion Atletico Madrid beat Rosenborg 3-0 for
its first win in Group B to pull within a point of pool leader
Bayer Leverkusen, which drew 0-0 with Aris Salonika.  Liverpool’s scoreless draw at Napoli kept it atop Group K
with five points. Liverpool’s  Paul Konchesky  cleared Marek
Hamsik’s shot off the goal line in the first half, though
replays appeared to show the ball was over the line.  PSV Eindhoven won 2-1 at Debrecen to take a one-point lead
in Group I, Paris Saint-Germain tied 1-1 in Dortmund to stay
atop Group J, BATE Borisov beat Sheriff 1-0 to go three points
clear in Group E, and Villarreal took the lead in Group D with a
1-0 win over POAK.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 