-- AGL `Optimistic' New South Wales Will Complete Power Assets Sale This Year
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2010-10-21T05:34:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/agl-optimistic-new-south-wales-will-complete-power-assets-sale-this-year.html
AGL Energy Ltd. , Australia’s largest
electricity retailer, said it is “optimistic” New South Wales
state will complete a sale of power assets by the end of 2010.  AGL may seek to raise between A$500 million ($490 million)
and A$2 billion by selling shares to fund an acquisition of some
of the retailers, development sites and power trading rights on
offer, Chief Executive Officer  Michael Fraser  said in an
interview today.  Bids for the assets, including retailers EnergyAustralia,
Country Energy and Integral Energy, are due Nov. 15. AGL is
deciding what combination of businesses to pursue, Fraser said
in Sydney. It would be surprising if the Australian Competition
and Consumer Commission blocks AGL’s plans, he said.  AGL and  Origin Energy Ltd.  have “the most to gain” from
acquiring the retail businesses,  David Leitch , an analyst at UBS
AG in Sydney, wrote in a report yesterday. Origin may spend A$3
billion, including buying EnergyAustralia, and AGL may pay A$1.5
billion for Country Energy and other parts of the sale, UBS said
in September.  TRUenergy Holdings Pty., a unit of Hong Kong’s  CLP Holdings
Ltd. , is also evaluating a bid, CLP said last month.  The state plans to offer development sites for new power
plants and to contract the right to sell power produced by
state-owned generators to private trading companies.  New South Wales said earlier this month it intends to keep
ownership of the Cobbora coal mine and develop the resource to
supply state-owned power stations with fuel.  Last Hurdle  “News that the New South Wales government is apparently
offering heavily discounted coal” -- at about A$32 a ton -- to
the electricity generators is a positive development for the
sales process, Leitch of UBS said in the report.  The remaining obstacle to the sale is the review by the
ACCC, the  competition regulator , the analyst said. Fraser said
while the ACCC “may determine what assets people can actually
bid for,” he doesn’t expect it to stop AGL from proceeding.  The ACCC is reviewing whether to give Origin and AGL
clearance. The regulator, which had previously expected to make
a determination on Oct. 28, has delayed the decision after
requesting more information from the government of Australia’s
most-populous state, its website shows.  AGL  fell 1.3 percent to A$16.39 by the market’s 4:10 p.m.
close in Sydney. The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index ended little
changed.  AGL’s Hunter Valley coal-seam gas resources may potentially
reach as much as 2,000 petajoules, Fraser said in the interview
after the company’s annual meeting. AGL plans to target the
domestic market with the gas, he said.  “It’s a very significant coal resource in the Hunter
Valley, and the reserves we’ve proved-up so far are off the back
of a very modest exploration program,” he said.  To contact the reporter n this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net  