-- Thai Stocks to Extend Rally After Record Quarterly Advance, Bualuang Says
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2010-10-21T04:14:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/thai-stocks-to-extend-rally-after-record-quarterly-advance-bualuang-says.html
Thai  stocks  are set for another
“wave” of gains after their best quarterly rally as more
foreigners buy shares and locals boost investments for tax
savings, according to Morgan Stanley’s Thai partner.  The  SET Index  may rise to as high as 1,200 by the end of
this year, said Pongrat Ratanatavanananda, an investment
strategist at  Bualuang Securities Pcl , or a 21 percent gain from
yesterday’s close. Bualuang is also a unit of  Bangkok Bank Pcl ,
Thailand’s biggest lender.  “Foreigners will probably pour another round of money into
Thai stocks in November before going for a long holiday,”
Pongrat said by phone from Bangkok today. “December is normally
the time when locals rush to buy long-term equity funds to be
eligible for tax savings.”  Equity purchases by  overseas investors  have slowed over the
past week as the baht’s rally to a 13-year high increased
speculation new measures may be introduced to limit the
currency’s gain. Thailand removed a 15 percent tax exemption for
foreigners’ bond investment this month and left interest rates
unchanged yesterday to curb the baht’s strength.  Foreigners have cut their average daily purchases of Thai
equities by 32 percent this month from September to 1.11 billion
baht ($37 million), according to stock exchange data. Overseas
investors bought more shares after May’s record outflows of 58.7
billion baht as political tensions eased since the deadly street
protests that claimed 89 lives in April and May.  Pongrat correctly predicted the foreign outflows and that
the selling was temporary. The SET has climbed 26 percent since
her April 8 interview.  ‘Good Value Opportunities’  Thailand’s  SET  Index may rise to 1,130 over the next 12
months, driven by inflows and domestic liquidity, a
“supportive” political situation and the outlook for
investment, according to Deutsche Bank AG.  “Good value opportunities” for individual companies
remain in Indonesia and Thailand even after a rally in the two
Southeast Asian markets, Templeton Asset Management Ltd.’s  Mark Mobius  wrote on his blog in the Oct. 20 posting.  The Thai key stock index climbed 35 percent this year, the
third-best performer among Asia’s 15 biggest markets, spurred by
increasing exports, consumption and investments. The gauge rose
1.3 percent in October following a 22 percent rally in the past
three months, its sixth quarterly gain.  Thai  individuals  may invest more in the so-called long-term
equity fund, bolstering the gains in December, Pongrat said. The
government offers tax breaks for as much as 500,000 baht on such
investments.  -- With assistance from Shiyin Chen in Singapore. Editors:  Linus Chua ,  Tony Jordan   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anuchit Nguyen  in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at   lchua@bloomberg.net . 