-- AIG Raises $17.8 Billion in Record AIA Hong Kong IPO
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n ,   B e i   H u   a n d   H u g h   S o n
-- 2010-10-22T14:45:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/aig-is-said-to-raise-17-8-billion-as-aia-completes-record-hong-kong-ipo.html
American International Group Inc. 
raised a record HK$138.3 billion ($17.8 billion) in the Hong
Kong initial public offering of its main Asian unit, putting the
bailed-out insurer on course to repay its U.S. assistance.  AIG sold 7.03 billion shares in AIA Group Ltd., or a 58
percent stake, at HK$19.68 each, the New York-based insurer said
today in a filing. That makes it the largest Hong Kong public
offering, exceeding the $16 billion raised by  Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China Ltd.  in 2006, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The AIA shares may begin trading on the
Hong Kong Stock Exchange on Oct. 29, AIG said.  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche , 66, has said the
divestment of AIA and another non-U.S. division will put AIG
“well within striking distance” of repaying a Federal Reserve
credit line included in the company’s $182.3 billion U.S.
bailout. AIG turned to the public offering following the June
collapse of a $35.5 billion deal to sell AIA to Prudential Plc
after the London-based firm’s investors balked at the price.  “The IPO is the biggest money in the door for AIG and the
U.S., without question,” said  Clark Troy , senior analyst at
Aite Group in Chapel Hill, North Carolina. “Success on this
sale is the biggest step towards a government exit.”  Stock Gain  AIG climbed 87 cents, or 2.1 percent, to $42.15 in New York
Stock Exchange composite  trading  at 10:43 a.m. The insurer has
advanced about 41 percent this year as Benmosche announced deals
including a $15.5 billion sale of AIG’s other main non-U.S. life
insurance division, American Life Insurance Co., to  MetLife Inc. 
That sale will be completed by Nov. 1, MetLife has said.  AIA expects operating profit of at least $2 billion for the
year ending November, and operates in 15 Asian markets with
309,000 agents, 24,500 employees and more than 23 million in-
force policies. The unit had about $1.78 billion in operating
profit in 2009, down from $1.87 billion in 2008, according to
its IPO prospectus.  Investors, including institutions and Hong Kong
individuals, ordered more than HK$1 trillion worth of AIA stock,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter who
declined to be identified because the information is private.
The Kuwait Investment Authority, Guoco Land Ltd. and Wharf
Holdings Ltd. are among companies that bought stock in the IPO.  “AIA’s anticipated market capitalization may earn it a
spot within regional and global indexes,” said  Charles Stucke ,
a senior managing director of Guggenheim Partners LLC.
“Speculation about this is said to be driving interest” in the
offering, he said.  ‘Growth Potential’  AIG has the option to sell 1.05 billion more shares during
AIA’s first month as a listed company, potentially taking the
total amount raised to $20.5 billion and cutting its stake to 33
percent, according to a  prospectus . Citigroup Inc., Deutsche
Bank AG, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley led banks arranging
the IPO, according to the document.  Pricing was at the top end of the company’s range, “a very
strong vote of confidence in AIA’s future and our ability to
capture and realize the exceptional growth potential of the Asia
Pacific region,”  Mark Tucker , CEO of the Hong Kong-based
business, said in a statement.  AIA’s IPO takes Hong Kong equity fundraising this year to
$65 billion, overtaking the record $60 billion garnered in 2007
before the global financial crisis sunk stock markets, according
to Bloomberg data. The number doesn’t include capital raised
through rights offerings. Hong Kong’s benchmark Hang Seng Index
advanced 8.1 percent this year through yesterday, compared with
the 5.8 percent gain of the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index .  Bailed Out  AIG owes $19.3 billion on its Fed credit line as of this
week, and about $49.1 billion to the U.S. Treasury Department.
The company’s 2008 bailout swelled to $182.3 billion, a package
that includes a $60 billion Fed  credit  facility, a Treasury
investment of as much as $69.8 billion and up to $52.5 billion
to buy mortgage-linked assets owned or backed by AIG.  After the Fed credit line is repaid, Treasury will swap its
preferred stake of $49.1 billion for common stock and then sell
the holdings in the open market, AIG said in a Sept. 30
statement. The transaction will be completed by the end of the
first quarter, AIG said.  AIA traces its roots to 1919 when  Cornelius Vander Starr ,
an American businessman, set up a fire and marine insurance
agency in Shanghai. It was the first foreign-owned insurer to
get a license in China, according to the company’s website.
Former AIG CEO  Maurice “Hank” Greenberg  has called the
company’s non-U.S. life insurance divisions “crown jewels”
that couldn’t be replicated by rivals.  Tucker, Wilson  Benmosche hired  Tucker  in July as chief of AIA. Tucker
built the Asia operations of Prudential over 15 years before
becoming CEO of the London-based insurer through last year.
Benmosche had clashed with AIA’s former head,  Mark Wilson , over
how to divest the business.  Tucker, 52, told staff at a town-hall style meeting in July
that he plans to triple the unit’s value to about $100 billion,
according to a person with knowledge of his remarks. The
business will be less at risk of a downgrade after the IPO
clarifies the unit’s ownership, Moody’s Investors Service said.  “There are certainly concerns because outside China, its
core business is experiencing a slowdown everywhere else in the
region as the insurance market is already pretty mature,” said
 Danny Yan , Hong Kong-based portfolio manager at Taifook Asset
Management, which oversees about $400 million. “If the only
bright spot, China, fails, that could be a problem.”  AIA bolstered its board ahead of the IPO.  Edmund Tse , who
helped build AIG’s life-insurance operations for more than four
decades, was appointed a non-executive director on Sept. 27.
He’s also honorary chairman. Tse joined AIA in 1961 and was CEO
of the business from 1983 to 2009, according to the filing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bei Hu  in Hong Kong at   bhu5@bloomberg.net ;
 Cathy Chan  in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net ;
 Hugh Son  in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at   apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  