-- Air, Sea Blockade of Somalia Sought to Keep Qaeda Fighters From Entering
-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 2010-10-21T18:43:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/air-sea-blockade-of-somalia-sought-to-keep-qaeda-fighters-from-entering.html
A no-fly zone and naval blockade
should be imposed on Somalia to prevent al-Qaeda fighters from
entering the war-torn African nation, a senior African Union
official told the  United Nations  Security Council today.  Ramtane Lamamra , the AU’s commissioner for peace and
security, said Somalia was “at the crossroads” and the “time
for action is now” to prevent the conflict there from
worsening, destabilizing the region and posing a global
terrorist threat.  Lamamra asked the Security Council to authorize the air and
sea blockade and a proposed increase in the AU peacekeeping
force in Somalia to 20,000 from the current 8,000. Navies
involved in the effort to curb piracy off the coast of Somalia
should provide greater support to the AU force, he said. Lamamra
also urged an “enhanced support package” of military equipment
and payments to the AU troops.  Somalia hasn’t had a functioning central administration
since the ouster of former dictator  Mohamed Siad Barre  in 1991.
Most of southern and central Somalia is under the control of
insurgents led by the Islamic terrorist group al-Shabaab, which
has pledged loyalty to al-Qaeda.  “Continuing insecurity and conflict in parts of the
country are attracting foreign extremist elements,” UN
Secretary-General  Ban Ki-moon  told the Security Council.  Country’s Fragility  “We have all seen what can happen when terrorists and
others take advantage of a country’s fragility to establish a
haven,” he said. Al-Qaeda used bases in Afghanistan to plot the
Sept. 11, 2001, attacks on the U.S.  Yousuf Ibrahim, foreign minister of Somalia’s Transitional
Federal Government, endorsed the AU’s proposals in remarks to
the Security Council. The AU is the coalition of 53 African
nations based in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.  Lamamra told reporters after the Security Council held a
closed meeting on Somalia that there was “not enough” support
among the panel’s 15 members to implement a no-fly zone and
naval blockade.  “If it were there, it would have a decisive impact,” he
said.  UN Action  Lamamra said he hoped the Security Council would authorize
the reinforcements next month and that the UN General Assembly
would vote in December to appropriate the needed funding. That
would allow for deployment of the extra troops by February, he
said.  Uganda has pledged to provide the reinforcements.  The AU is seeking funding for the enhanced peacekeeping
force from assessed contributions by UN member governments,
which means the U.S. would pay 22 percent of the amount.  “In principle, we support an increase in the number of
troops on the ground but do not take a position on what that
number should be,” U.S. Assistant Secretary of State for
African Affairs  Johnnie Carson  said at the  Center for Strategic
and International Studies  in Washington yesterday.  The Security Council released a statement urging nations to
“provide additional resources” to the AU mission, including
“predictable” funding, meaning assessed contributions.  Political Presence  For its part, the UN is set to establish a political
presence in Somalia for the first time in 17 years, according to
 Augustine Mahiga , Ban’s top envoy to the country.  Final preparations are being made to base four workers in
the capital Mogadishu and five each in the semi-autonomous
provinces of Puntland and Somaliland, he said. They will shift
operations late this month from Nairobi, Kenya, where the
conflict in Somalia has confined political offices until now.  The AU reinforcements, pledged by Uganda, should enable the
UN to eventually send in most of the 50 international workers
based in Nairobi, Mahiga said. UN aid agencies including the
 World Food Program  and  UN Children’s Fund  have been working in
Somalia, though confined to peaceful areas and with national
staff.  The transitional government, which controls only portions
of Mogadishu and whose mandate expires in August 2011, is
emerging from a political crisis following the resignation of
Prime Minister  Omar Abdirashid Ali Sharmarke . Mahiga said it may
take a month for  Mohamed Abdullahi , appointed prime minister
last week by President  Sheikh Sharif Sheik Ahmed , to form a new
government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Varner  at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  