-- Ducasse Vaunts Sexy, Dynamic London Restaurant Scene: Interview
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2010-10-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/alain-ducasse-vaunts-sexy-dynamic-restaurant-scene-in-london-interview.html
Alain Ducasse  smiles as he reflects
on the difficulty of running a restaurant empire that stretches
across  eight countries  and includes three-Michelin-star
establishments in Monte Carlo, Paris and London. He queries this
interpretation of his view.  “Over the last 10 years certainly, London developed the
largest variety of different restaurants compared with other
cities,” the soft-spoken chef says in an interview at Alain
Ducasse at the Dorchester. “New York continues to develop --
maybe you’re at the same level as New York -- but it entered
into competition later and in the last 10 years London has
become very contemporary, very sexy, very dynamic.  “In London, many different concepts have developed for
restaurants. A restaurant isn’t only the food. It’s also the
service, the room, the design, etc. There are many different
components today.”  Ducasse, 54, says that he tailors his restaurants to the
cities in which they operate and that he learned a lesson when
Alain Ducasse at the Dorchester was criticized for its prices
and its style.  “In London, it hasn’t been easy to develop fine dining,”
he says. “When I arrived, I didn’t understand London customers
perfectly, but we’ve developed the right style with the right
price and step by step I’m in harmony with London.  ‘French Know-How’  “In each restaurant, I develop a different culinary
sensibility. In Paris, I’m more classic, because that’s what
customers like. In Monaco, it’s classic Mediterranean haute
cuisine. In London, it’s a contemporary French restaurant that
I’ve developed with a U.K. influence and my French know-how. In
New York, it’s also contemporary and we integrate more American
influence.  “When you are in New York, customers are very demanding
because they have choice,” Ducasse says. “New Yorkers travel
around the world and when they return they are demanding. It’s
not easy to have success with restaurants in different cities
but I like the challenge.”  (In New York, he owns Adour Alain Ducasse at the St. Regis
and Benoit; there’s also an Adour in Washington D.C.; there’s
Mix in Las Vegas and Mix on the Beach in Puerto Rico.)  In London, where Ducasse won his third star earlier this
year, the three-course set lunch with wine, water and coffee is
45 pounds ($71). (London’s other three-star restaurant,  Gordon Ramsay , charges 45 pounds without wine.) Ducasse’s a la carte
menu features U.K. produce such as Scottish langoustines and
Hereford snails.  “Twenty years ago, U.K. cuisine was, for me, old European
cuisine,” Ducasse says. “But today it’s not an evolution, it’s
a revolution. The century changed and U.K. cuisine changed with
it. I taste classic English cuisine and I like it when it’s
perfectly made.  “We have beautiful produce, beautiful fish, beautiful
game, beautiful beef, lamb, duck, not chicken -- no, no -- but
you have many vegetables. That’s the reality and if you have the
best, it’s easy to have beautiful cuisine.”  ( Richard Vines  is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  ( Richard Vines  is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Richard Vines  in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or Richardvines on
 http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 