-- Amazon's Profit Forecast Falls Short of Estimates
-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e
-- 2010-10-21T22:48:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/amazon-s-profit-forecast-falls-short-of-estimates-update1-.html
Amazon.com Inc. , the largest online
retailer, forecast fourth-quarter operating income that fell
short of  analysts’ estimates , squeezed by spending on new
warehouses and marketing for Zappos.com and the Kindle e-reader.  Operating income will be $360 million to $560 million,
Seattle-based Amazon said today in a statement. Sales will be
$12 billion to $13.3 billion. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg had
forecast operating profit of $621.6 million and sales of
$12.2 billion on average.  Chief Executive Officer  Jeff Bezos  is increasing spending
on warehouses to handle a growing array of televisions, apparel
and auto parts. The company also stepped up its use of TV
commercials to promote the Kindle and introduced a less
expensive version of the device, eating into profitability.
Operating expenses rose 40 percent to $7.29 billion last
quarter.  “Amazon’s operating income forecast for the fourth quarter
looks below the consensus even at the highest end of the
guidance range,” said  Fred Moran , an analyst with Benchmark Co.
in Boca Raton, Florida. “It shows the margin pressure the
company has been experiencing.”  Amazon fell 3.7 percent in late  trading  after the
announcement. The shares, up 23 percent this year, closed at
$164.97 earlier on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  Third Quarter  Third-quarter  net income  rose 16 percent to $231 million,
or 51 cents a share, from $199 million, or 45 cents, a year ago.
Sales climbed 39 percent to $7.56 billion, Amazon said. Analysts
projected profit of 48 cents and sales of $7.37 billion.  Amazon  introduced a thinner version of the Kindle in July
that works with Wi-Fi and is $50 cheaper than the $189 Kindle
that runs over mobile-phone networks.  Amazon is expanding its warehouses and distribution centers
to take advantage of the economic and retail recovery. It’s also
spending more to market Zappos.com, an online shoe retailer it
acquired last year. The company has built 10 new warehouses and
will finish another three by the end of the year, Chief
Financial Officer  Tom Szkutak  said on a conference call.  “That -- combined with perhaps some other factors like
promotional activity and lower Kindle prices -- has perhaps
temporarily hindered margins,” Moran said. “The company is
currently in a reinvestment spending mode that will hinder
profitability in the short term to help sustain the substantial
revenue growth of the company.”  Kindle Sales  The Kindle will generate $2.8 billion in revenue this year
for Amazon and $5.3 billion in 2012, according to estimates by
Caris & Co. Amazon doesn’t disclose Kindle sales. The company’s
ambitions for the Kindle may go beyond books, said  Sandeep Aggarwal , a Caris analyst in San Francisco.  “Kindle device users will not only continue buying more e-
books but also subscriptions, accessories, hardware warranties,
and eventually use Kindle’s wireless and computing capabilities
for other data and content,” such as music and videos, he said
in a  note to investors .  Amazon got its start in 1995 as an online bookseller. It
has since expanded into dozens of categories -- from baby
products to DVDs. Amazon Web Services, which lets customers rent
servers to house data and run computer networks, may one day be
larger than the retail business, the company has said.  “They’re growing at a good three times e-commerce, and
that’s what’s causing them to look at continually investing in
the business,” said  Scot Wingo , CEO of ChannelAdvisor Corp.,
which helps merchants sell online. “That erodes the short-term
market picture, but sets them up for growing well into the
future.”  EBay reported profit and  sales forecasts  yesterday that
exceeded analysts’ projections, helped by the growth of its
PayPal payment processing unit and a revamped marketplace site.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joseph Galante  in San Francisco at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  