-- American Express Profit Soars as Consumers Boost Card Spending
-- B y   P e t e r   E i c h e n b a u m
-- 2010-10-21T23:01:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/american-express-posts-higher-profit-as-card-spending-increases.html
American Express Co. , the biggest
credit-card issuer by purchases, said third-quarter profit
jumped 70 percent as consumers stepped up spending and fewer
overdue payments allowed the company to trim loss reserves.  Net income from continuing operations climbed to $1.09
billion, or 90 cents a diluted share, from $642 million, or 54
cents, in the same period a year earlier, AmEx said yesterday in
a statement. That beat the 84-cent average estimate of  analysts 
surveyed by Bloomberg, aided by a 17 percent increase in
revenue. Results were helped by a $548 million release of loss
reserves from the New York-based company’s lending portfolio.  Chief Executive Officer  Kenneth I. Chenault , 59, is
fighting a U.S. Justice Department antitrust lawsuit challenging
contracts that bar merchants from steering consumers to cheaper
card brands and alternative payment forms. AmEx’s growth, driven
by affluent consumers who have led the spending rebound, may
stall if the lawsuit forces the company to lower its fees, or if
retailers stop accepting its cards.  “The core issue of the  lawsuit  is a simple one: It’s about
consumer choice and the right of a customer to select the card
they want to use at the point of sale,” Chenault said during a
conference call with analysts. “I don’t believe the government
or the merchant should be making this choice. This choice should
belong to the customer.”  AmEx rose 54 cents yesterday to close at $40.27 on the New
York Stock Exchange, and slipped 1 percent during extended
 trading  as of 5:48 p.m. in New York.  Regional Results  U.S. card income almost quadrupled to $595 million from the
same period a year earlier, according to AmEx.  International 
card income climbed 15 percent to $153 million.  Worldwide card spending, or billed business, rose 14
percent to $179.3 billion, according to AmEx. Individuals spent
an average of $3,330, an increase of 15 percent from a year
earlier, when AmEx had fewer cards outstanding.  Total revenue advanced to $7.03 billion from $6.02 billion.
AmEx cut its provision for loan losses by 68 percent to $373
million, from $1.18 billion a year earlier.  In September, AmEx had the lowest default and delinquency
rates among the six biggest U.S. credit-card issuers. Write-offs
for loans deemed uncollectible fell to 4.7 percent last month,
from 8.4 percent in the same period last year. Loans at least 30
days overdue, a leading indicator for write-offs, dropped to 2.5
percent from 4.1 percent.  Lawsuit Opposed  Chenault vowed to oppose the lawsuit filed by the Justice
Department on Oct. 4 while  Visa Inc.  and  MasterCard Inc. , the
world’s biggest payment networks, agreed to settle.  The deal means that about 4 million merchants across the
U.S. who accept only Visa and MasterCard will be free to steer
customers to different types of credit cards by offering
discounts and other incentives, according to the Justice
Department. Retailers who also take AmEx are still subject to
its restrictions at least until the lawsuit is resolved.  The difference between Visa’s highest and lowest credit-
card rates is about 90 basis points, or 90 cents on a $100
purchase, Chenault said in the  conference call .  “It seems questionable whether merchants would disrupt the
transaction at the point of sale and risk a potential loss of
customer goodwill for the sake of a relatively small
differential,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Eichenbaum  in New York at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  