-- AmEx Courts Merchants, Aims to Avoid `Boston Fee Party' Repeat
-- B y   P e t e r   E i c h e n b a u m
-- 2010-10-21T17:03:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/american-express-courts-merchants-aims-to-avoid-boston-fee-party-repeat.html
American Express Co. , the biggest
credit-card issuer by purchases, aims to win over retailers as
it fights U.S. antitrust claims and seeks to avoid a repeat of a
1991 merchant revolt known as the “Boston Fee Party.”  The lender, which is scheduled to report third-quarter
results after markets close today, has “accelerated our calls”
to retailers after the U.S. Justice Department filed a lawsuit
against the company earlier this month, said  Bill Glenn ,
president of global merchant services at New York-based AmEx.  “We certainly wanted to reach out and proactively
communicate with as many of them as possible to talk through the
suit and why we took the position that we did,” Glenn said in a
telephone interview. “We know we have to prove value to them,
or they don’t need to accept us.”  Merchant support may help American Express counter Justice
Department claims that its contracts unfairly prohibit retailers
from steering customers to cheaper card brands. Merchants
including  Costco Wholesale Corp. , which has an exclusive
agreement with AmEx, and Boston restaurateur  Steve DiFillippo ,
who led the Fee Party uprising, praise the payments network.  “American Express is fantastic,” said DiFillippo, 49, who
gained nationwide notoriety in 1991 by stabbing an AmEx card
with a 10-inch butcher knife to protest the lender’s rates,
forcing the company to lower them.  “They listen to you. If you have an idea, they work with
you. It’s a whole different ballgame,” said DiFillippo, who
owns  Davio’s  restaurants in Boston, Philadelphia, Atlanta and
Foxborough, Massachusetts.  Costco  Costco, the largest U.S. warehouse-club chain, offers a
cobranded rewards credit card that brings AmEx’s affluent
cardholders into stores while helping the lender add Costco
customers, said  Richard Galanti , chief financial officer for the
Issaquah, Washington-based retailer.  “It’s been a great, long-term relationship,” Galanti said
in a telephone interview.  Visa Inc.  and  MasterCard Inc. , the world’s biggest payments
networks, agreed to settle the antitrust case. That means about
4 million U.S. merchants who accept only those brands will be
free to steer customers to different types of cards by offering
discounts and other incentives, according to the Justice
Department. Retailers who also take AmEx remain subject to its
restrictions, at least until the suit is resolved.  Brian Dodge , a spokesman for the  Retail Industry Leaders
Association , said it’s “premature” to determine whether
merchants will desert AmEx to take advantage of the settlement.  ‘Excessive’ Fees  “American Express is comparatively more transparent and
builds a more consistent working relationship with retailers
than Visa and MasterCard, but their rules are no less
restrictive and their fees are equally as excessive,” said
Dodge, who represents merchants including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. ,
 Home Depot Inc.  and  Target Corp.   AmEx, MasterCard and San Francisco-based Visa dictate fees
and terms with “impunity” at the expense of consumers and
retailers, he said.  Spokesmen for Visa and MasterCard say their companies are
transparent, publishing rules and rates on their websites.  “We always work together with merchants to provide value
to cardholders through cobranded and promotional programs,”
said Jim Issokson, a spokesman for Purchase, New York-based
MasterCard.  “Visa is focused on helping retailers achieve their
business goals with new products and services,” said its
spokesman,  Will Valentine .  ‘Headline Risk’  AmEx’s rules prohibit merchants from steering consumers to
lower-cost payment methods, said the Justice Department’s
spokeswoman,  Gina Talamona . “Our litigation seeks to allow
merchants that accept AmEx to engage in the same kind of
discounting and encouragement that the proposed settlement with
MasterCard and Visa allows.”  The Oct. 4 complaint and AmEx’s decision to fight prompted
a 6.5 percent decline in the stock, the biggest one-day drop
since January, amid concern that the company would again be
forced to lower merchant fees, its biggest  revenue source .  “This is primarily headline risk at this point, because
the Justice Department really has a tremendous task at hand to
prove that American Express actually has market power,” said
 Fred Fialco  at Bethesda, Maryland-based  Torray LLC , which
manages about $550 million, including AmEx shares.  Investors should take advantage of the  selloff  by buying
AmEx ahead of today’s earnings report, according to  Betsy Graseck , an analyst at Morgan Stanley.  ‘Stock Is Cheap’  “The stock is cheap,” Graseck said in an Oct. 13 research
note. “American Express is likely reaching out to bear-hug
merchants, reiterate its value proposition, and at least
partially offset any potential merchant discounts with other
service offerings.”  AmEx, the  top performer  last year in the Dow Jones
Industrial average, climbed 1.1 percent to $40.17 at 12:32 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares had
fallen 2 percent on the year through yesterday.  The company may say third-quarter income surged more than
50 percent as card spending increased and fewer borrowers
defaulted. AmEx may post a profit of $984.4 million, compared
with $640 million in the same period a year earlier, according
to the average  estimate  of 10 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Risk of Defections  Should American Express win the antitrust case, the lender
may still face merchant defections or be forced to lower fees if
MasterCard and Visa reduce theirs as a result of a separate
antitrust lawsuit brought by retailers in federal court in
Brooklyn, New York.  “I always see the risk of merchants dropping AmEx,” said
 Moshe Orenbuch , a Credit Suisse Group AG analyst who’s rated
AmEx as “underperform” since 2002. “I think that’s increased
as a result of the DOJ telling them that AmEx’s pricing is too
high.”  More than 8 million U.S. merchants accept Visa and
MasterCard, compared with fewer than 5 million for American
Express, said  David Boies , an attorney for AmEx, according to a
company transcript of an Oct. 4 conference call with analysts
and reporters.  AmEx, in disputing the government’s claim that the company
wields market power, said its cards are accepted at fewer
locations than those issued by  Discover Financial Services ,
based in Riverwoods, Illinois. Discover isn’t a defendant.  American Express Chief Executive Officer  Kenneth I. Chenault , 59, has said that merchants who agree to accept the
company’s cards promise not to take advantage of the lender’s
investments in attracting affluent consumers by luring them into
stores and then steering them to other card brands.  ‘Bait and Switch’  “The net result of this ‘bait and switch’ is an unhappy
customer who was pushed to use a backup card that didn’t provide
the customer service, buyer protection, benefits or rewards that
he or she prefers,” Chenault wrote in a commentary published
Oct. 8 by the  Washington Post . “Only in Washington could that
be called a consumer benefit.”  Retailers paid AmEx an average of 2.56 percent on each
credit-card transaction in the three months ended June 30,
according to the company’s second-quarter financial supplement.
The debit- and credit-card  rates  Visa and MasterCard post online
don’t provide weighted averages just for credit transactions.
The  Nilson Report , an industry newsletter, estimated the fees
averaged 2 percent in 2008. AmEx doesn’t issue debit cards.  The fees help compensate card issuers for the risk of
lending money, for processing costs and for rewards programs.  ‘So Arrogant’  DiFillippo said he views accepting plastic as a business
cost, like rent or payroll, that’s passed on to consumers. Cards
account for about 70 percent of his restaurants’ $25 million in
annual revenue and he pays an average of 2.5 percent for the
service, with AmEx being the most expensive at about 2.9
percent, he said.  In 1991, AmEx’s merchant discount rate averaged 3.18
percent, about twice that of competitors.  “There was a  recession , kind of like we have now, and we
were going to our vendors and talking to them about trying to
lower their costs,” DiFillippo said. American Express initially
refused, with an executive telling him, “We’ll do some
marketing for you, but the rates, it never will happen,”
DiFillippo recalled. “They were so arrogant.”  A Boston Herald reporter overheard restaurateurs discussing
their plans to stop accepting American Express and the newspaper
later published a photograph of DiFillippo posing with the
butcher knife as he stabbed an AmEx card, the restaurateur said.  ‘Huge Story’  “I was on every channel, it became like this huge story,
and then  CNN  calls me,” DiFillippo said. AmEx “knew from that
day they had a problem in Boston, so they sent some people from
New York who negotiated with us.”  American Express had just one  product  at the time, its
flagship charge card that requires customers to pay their bills
in full each month, and directed most of its services toward
card holders, not retailers. Today, the company uses the data it
collects to help merchants acquire and retain customers and
market their products more effectively, and at a lower rate,
said Glenn, the AmEx executive.  “We’re a totally different organization than we were
then,” he said. “The evolution of the business has made us
more acute to the needs of our customers, and in my
organization, our customers are the merchants.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Eichenbaum  in New York at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  