-- Hamptons Home Prices Fall as Buyers Seek Lower-Priced Retreats
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2010-10-21T18:42:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/hamptons-home-prices-drop-as-demand-for-5-million-beach-mansions-slumps.html
Home prices in New York’s Hamptons,
the beachside resort towns in Long Island swelled by summering
Manhattanites, dropped 14 percent in the third quarter from a
year earlier as buyers opted for less-expensive properties.  The median price of homes that sold in the quarter fell to
$696,000 from $810,000 a year earlier, according to a report
today by New York appraiser  Miller Samuel Inc.  and broker
 Prudential Douglas Elliman Real Estate . It was the second-lowest
price in the firms’ six years of keeping the data, behind only
the $675,000 median in the first quarter of 2009.  “What it suggests to me is not that there was a sharp
drop-off in pricing, because there wasn’t,” said  Jonathan Miller , the president of Miller Samuel. “It’s a shift in the
mix. We had a drop in upper-end sales activity.”  New York City’s financial industry, whose executives fuel
high-end Hamptons demand, lost 1,600 jobs in September from
August, the state  Department of Labor  said today. Professional
and business services -- a sector that includes lawyers,
accountants and architects -- lost 9,000 jobs, the most for
September since at least 1990. Wall Street firms may cut 80,000
jobs in the next 18 months and year-end bonuses could be the
lowest since 2008,  Meredith Whitney , founder of Meredith Whitney
Advisory Group, said in a Sept. 30 Bloomberg Radio interview.  11 Homes  Eleven Hamptons homes sold for $5 million or more in the
third quarter, compared with 20 a year earlier, Miller said. The
median price for luxury properties, defined as the top 10
percent by price, dropped 14 percent in the Hamptons and Long
Island’s North Fork to $3.7 million.  “I see the East End as joined at the hip with Wall
Street,” Miller said. “Going forward, that’s a concern. The
next couple of quarters are not quite clear at the moment.”  Three other reports this week also showed decreases in
Hamptons prices in the third quarter. New York brokerage  Brown
Harris Stevens  said in a report today that the median price fell
16 percent from a year earlier to $753,750. About 67 percent of
all sales were for homes under $1 million, said  Gregory Heym ,
chief economist at Terra Holdings LLC, which owns Brown Harris.  Town & Country Real Estate  said in an Oct. 18 report that
prices declined 14 percent across the 11 towns and villages that
comprise the Hamptons. The  Corcoran Group  reported today that
the median price of homes fell 8 percent, while the number of
properties publicly listed for sale climbed 10 percent from a
year earlier, to 8,432.  Buyer’s Market  “We’re ensconced in a buyer’s market again,” said  Rick
Hoffman , a Corcoran senior vice president who oversees sales on
Long Island’s East End.  “With more inventory on board, I don’t see median home
prices going up in any great way over the next few months,”
Hoffman said in a telephone interview. “There’s more properties
competing with each other.”  Within the individual towns, all but Sag Harbor had year-
over-year price declines, according to Brown Harris Stevens. In
East Hampton, the median price of properties that changed hands
in the quarter fell 16 percent to $650,000 -- even as two homes
there closed for more than $20 million.  In Amagansett, the median price plunged 58 percent to
$763,500 as three-quarters of all properties that sold there
were for less than $1 million, according to Brown Harris.  “A shift like that can have a dramatic effect,” Heym
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net  