-- Anglo's Platinum Output Jumps as Company Seeks to Cash in On Rising Prices
-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 2010-10-21T16:42:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/anglo-american-says-its-quarterly-platinum-ouput-rises-11-gems-15-.html
Anglo American Plc , owner of stakes
in some of the biggest metals and diamond mines, said third-
quarter refined platinum output expanded 11 percent from a year
earlier as it sought to take advantage of rising prices.  Production rose to 697,000 ounces and unit Anglo Platinum
Ltd. is poised to meet a full-year estimate of 2.5 million
ounces, London-based Anglo American said today in a statement.
Platinum was Anglo American’s second-biggest revenue earner in
the first half after sales from its iron ore and manganese unit.  Platinum rose 26 percent to average $1,554.49 an ounce in
London in the quarter from a year earlier, benefiting Anglo
Platinum, which produces 40 percent of the world’s output.
Rising investor demand is boosting prices, which may trade
between $1,500 and $1,700 in the next six to 12 months, Anglo’s
rival Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. said this week.  Anglo American  rose  2.5 percent to 2,943.5 pence in London,
while the platinum unit gained 1.3 percent to 704 rand in
Johannesburg.  Anglo Platinum cut its debt 63 percent to 6.9 billion rand
from a year before and said separately it would keep per-unit
cost gains below inflation this year for a third straight year.  Anglo American is spending about $5 billion this year to
boost capacity in iron ore, copper, nickel and coal, betting
demand for the commodities will rise as China, India and other
emerging economies expand. In July, Anglo resumed  dividends  it
halted 18 months ago as first-half underlying earnings doubled.  Potential Performer  “Anglo has the potential to be the best performing
major,” Liberum Capital Ltd. wrote in a note today, citing cost
cuts, asset disposals and “Anglo’s extreme leverage to what are
likely to be improving platinum and diamond prices.”  Diamond output grew 15 percent in the third quarter, while
manganese alloys increased more than threefold. Anglo owns 45
percent of producer De Beers.  Lower grades, “ore hardness” and scheduled maintenance at
Los Bronces contributed to a 9 percent drop in third-quarter
copper output to 153,400 metric tons, the company said. Copper
was the second-biggest contributor to operating profit after the
iron ore and manganese unit in the first half.  Kumba Iron Ore Ltd. , which produces almost all of Anglo’s
iron ore, posted a 5 percent decline in production and said
export sales volumes fell 12 percent after South African rail
operator Transnet Ltd. suffered derailments and maintenance
delays. Kumba will export at least 35 million tons this year.  Selling Assets  Anglo American, with gross  debt  of $13.2 billion as of June
30, is selling steel, zinc and phosphate assets. Vale SA, the
Brazilian miner, said yesterday it may consider bidding to buy
Anglo’s 73 percent stake in Copebras SA, which produces
phosphate fertilizers and phosphoric acid in Brazil.  A key reason for the underperformance of Anglo’s shares
relative to peers has been concerns about its Minas Rio iron ore
project in Brazil, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Nomura Holdings
Inc. wrote in notes this month. Anglo said in July that its
Minas Rio iron-ore project in Brazil may cost $750 million, or
20 percent more than its previous estimate.  Anglo has risen 8.6 percent this year, lagging BHP Billiton
Ltd.’s 11 percent jump and Xstrata Plc’s 15 percent advance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carli Lourens  in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  