-- Apple Must Pay Dividend to Win Stock Investors, Sacconaghi Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2010-10-21T18:59:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/apple-must-pay-dividend-to-win-stock-investors-sacconaghi-says-tom-keene.html
Apple Inc. ’s failure to pay a
dividend is preventing some investors from buying shares of the
Mac, iPhone and iPad maker, according to  Toni Sacconaghi , an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  Sacconaghi said about 10 percent to 15 percent of the
investors he speaks with avoid the Cupertino, California-based
company because they only buy firms with payouts or they’re
concerned Apple will use cash for an acquisition.  Apple  had
$25.6 billion in cash and short-term investments as of Sept. 30,
the fourth-biggest amount in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
when companies with financial divisions are excluded.  “As an Apple board member, I would not want to create any
reason for people to not want to own my stock,” he said.
“There is a reason right now, which is there’s a large cash
balance that investors are not giving them full credit for, that
investors are worried about in terms of the surprise of a large
and potentially value-destroying acquisition, and there are
investors who have dividend mandates who also can’t own Apple.”  Apple generated $16.6 billion in free cash flow, or money
generated from its business minus capital expenditures, in the
fiscal year that ended in September, according to the company.
Given the company’s $281.1 billion market value, a 5 percent
dividend yield would cost it $14.1 billion annually.  ‘One Morning’  “It would draw some investors who are reluctant to get
into the stock because they’re worried one morning they’re going
to wake up and they’re going to own Apple plus some other big
company, which they’re not sure they’re going to want to own,”
Sacconaghi said today during a radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “Being a growth company and
returning cash to shareholders are not mutually exclusive.”  Apple paid $278 million to buy P.A. Semi, a chip designer,
in 2008, according to  Forbes . Quattro Wireless, a provider of
mobile advertisements, was purchased for $275 million this year,
according to  All Things Digital , a Wall Street Journal blog.
Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  returned to the company after
Apple bought his Next Computer Inc. in 1997 for $400 million.  Shares of Apple have gained more than  fivefold  during the
past five years, compared with an 11 percent total return for
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. It is the third-best performing
stock in the index after Priceline.com Inc. and CF Industries
Holdings Inc. The shares declined 0.9 percent to $307.74 at 2:24
p.m. in New York today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tara Lachapelle  in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 