-- Arcor Tops Government in Bond Market With Overseas Sales: Argentina Credit
-- B y   D r e w   B e n s o n
-- 2010-10-21T14:19:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/arcor-tops-government-in-bond-market-with-overseas-sales-argentina-credit.html
Arcor SAIC , Argentina’s biggest
candy maker, may parlay its international operations into lower
borrowing costs than the government.  Arcor may sell $200 million of bonds due in 2017 at a yield
as low as 8 percent, or 62 basis points less than similar-
maturity government bonds, according to  Bevan Rosenbloom , an
analyst with RBS Securities in Stamford, Connecticut.  Operations in Brazil, Chile, Mexico and Peru accounted for
44 percent of Arcor’s revenue last year, according to Fitch
Ratings. The overseas businesses improve investor confidence in
Arcor’s ability to access dollars and repay debt, said  Cecilia Minguillon , a Fitch analyst in Buenos Aires. Argentina, which is
rated six levels below investment grade by Moody’s Investors
Service at B3, limits companies’ access to dollars.  “Peru, Chile and Brazil are investment-grade countries
that don’t have such high exchange-control risks,” Minguillon
said. “Foreign exchange controls make it harder for companies
to buy dollars.”  Arcor may lure investors to its first overseas offering as
the yield estimate is more than 211 basis points, or 2.11
percentage points, above the  average  5.89 percent yield on
dollar bonds sold by emerging-market industrial companies,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s CEMBI index.  Fitch assigned a B+ grade to Arcor, one step above the
Argentine government, saying in an Oct. 18 report that Arcor’s
exports to 120 countries and its international operations
“mitigate” the risks of currency controls.  Scrapped Sale  Arcor, based in Arroyito, plans to use proceeds from the
bond sale to refinance short-term debt, said a company official
who spoke on the condition he not be named in accordance with
corporate policy. Arcor scrapped plans to sell its first
overseas bonds in 2007 because yields were too high, he said.  Argentine companies and provinces are stepping up sales in
international markets after President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  restructured defaulted debt in June and record-low
interest rates in the U.S. and Europe sparked demand for higher-
yielding assets. Argentine government dollar bonds, the
benchmark for the country’s issuers,  yield  an average 607 basis
points over U.S. Treasuries.  Edenor, based in Buenos Aires, sold $140 million of bonds
due in 2022 to yield 9.75 percent last week, while Cordoba paid
12.375 percent on $196 million of bonds that mature in 2017.  Investors accustomed to the high yields on Argentine debt
may balk at Arcor’s terms, said  Ruth Mazzoni , a corporate bond
analyst at Standard Bank New York.  ‘Juice’  “Anybody that’s a regular buyer of Argentine debt will
struggle with the pricing because it strips out the juice,”
Mazzoni said. Arcor may seek a yield as low as 7.25 percent, she
said.  The yield on Argentina’s 8.75 percent bonds due in 2017
declined 1 basis point to 8.7 percent at 10:02 a.m. New York
time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The bonds, issued
as part of the government’s restructuring of $12.2 billion in
defaulted debt, yielded as much as 12.99 percent June 8.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Argentine dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries was unchanged today at 603
basis points and is down from 846 on July 1, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Warrants linked to growth in South America’s second-biggest
economy dropped 0.03 cent to 12.35 cents, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Default Swaps  The  cost  of protecting Argentine debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps fell 1 basis point
yesterday to 747, according to data provider CMA. Credit-default
swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a government or company
fail to adhere to debt agreements.  The peso dropped 0.1 percent today to 3.9612 per U.S.
dollar.  Government regulations put in place in 2005 require
international investors to deposit 30 percent of the funds they
bring into Argentina with the central bank for a year. The move
prompted MSCI Inc. to remove Argentina from its benchmark
emerging-market index in June 2009, assigning it frontier status
along with the world’s least developed markets, including
Bulgaria and Kenya.  “A lot of companies are realizing that the situation in
Argentina isn’t likely to change very dramatically and so the
only way to grow will be to diversify” abroad, Mazzoni said.
“The return on equity under the current framework in Argentina
isn’t there. It just doesn’t stimulate investment.”  Argentine companies and provinces sold $2.6 billion of
bonds overseas this year, up from $465 million last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Four companies issued
debt abroad last week, the most for the period since at least
1999.  A successful Arcor sale “could create a window for small
issuers,” RBS’s Rosenbloom said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Drew Benson  in Buenos Aires at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  