-- Larger Withdrawals From IRAs in 2010 May Help Savers With Taxes
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2010-10-21T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/larger-withdrawals-from-iras-this-year-may-help-u-s-savers-with-taxes.html
For U.S. taxpayers making mandatory
withdrawals from an individual retirement account, 2010 may be a
good year to take out more than necessary because tax rates may
rise.  Required minimum distributions from the accounts, which are
taxed as ordinary income, generally apply to people with a tax-
deferred traditional IRA who are age 70 1/2 and older or
inherited one from a parent or spouse.  Savers who may be in a higher tax bracket next year should
consider withdrawing more than the minimum in 2010, said Mark
Nash, a partner in the Dallas office of the New York-based
Private Company Services practice of accounting and advisory 
firm PwC. Required withdrawals are based on a formula of the 
account balance and the individual’s age.  “Pulling out a large sum in 2010 would lessen the 2011
amount, and make that year’s distribution lower,” said Nash,
who advises high net-worth investors.  Account holders took out an estimated $162 billion in
taxable distributions from IRAs in 2008, the Internal Revenue
Service said, based on data from its website. Sixty-four percent
of people who took money out of their IRAs in 2008 did so
because of the required distribution, according to a 2010 study
by the  Investment Company Institute , a Washington-based mutual-
fund trade group. IRAs held $4.2 trillion at the end of the
second quarter of 2010, up about 11 percent from the second
quarter of 2009, according to ICI.  The U.S. government suspended required minimum
distributions for tax year 2009 in response to plummeting
account balances after the Standard & Poor’s 500  Index  dropped
38 percent in 2008. Mandatory distributions returned in 2010 as
the economy strengthened and the S&P 500 rose 23 percent in
2009. Roth IRAs, which are funded with post-tax dollars, are
exempt from minimum withdrawal rules while the owner is alive.  Rising Rates  President  Barack Obama  has proposed allowing the top two
marginal income tax rates to rise to 39.6 percent and 36 percent
from 35 percent and 33 percent for individuals earning more than
$200,000 and couples making more than $250,000. Congress is
scheduled to take up taxes when it returns from recess in
November.  “This uncertainty doesn’t mean that people shouldn’t be
sitting down and doing their planning now,” said Greg Rosica, a
tax partner at consulting firm Ernst & Young LLP in Tampa,
Florida, and contributing author to the Ernst & Young Tax Guide.  Someone who may be in a lower tax bracket in 2010 because
of large deductions or less income should also consider taking a
bigger distribution this year to take advantage of lower rates,
said Rebecca Pavese, an accountant at Palisades Hudson Financial
Group’s national tax practice in Atlanta.  Combine Withdrawals  Taxpayers who aren’t already taxed at top rates should make
sure taking a bigger distribution won’t tip them into a higher
bracket, said  Bill Fleming , a managing director in the Hartford,
Connecticut, office of PwC.  Holders of multiple IRAs can take the required withdrawals
in aggregate from one account, said PwC’s Nash. That means they
can take the distribution from an IRA with the worst-performing
investments, leaving more money in accounts that are doing well,
Nash said.  Those who pay estimated taxes during the year can request
the account administrator to withhold money from their RMDs and
pay income tax just once at the year’s end, said Rosica of Ernst
& Young. That way they can hold onto their money longer and
invest it without paying a penalty for underpayment, Pavese
said.  The law assumes that payments are made equally throughout
the year unless the taxpayer states otherwise, according to the
IRS.  Charity Deduction  Taxpayers can withhold funds from required distributions to
cover tax that’s expected on the distribution or, if they have
other sources of income, withhold more to cover quarterly
estimated payments, Nash said.  “The IRS doesn’t care as long as you get your tax
liability to them either through quarterly estimated payments or
through withholding,” he said.  Any IRA account holder can give all or part of a
distribution to charity and take a deduction for the donation,
said Debbie Cox, a Dallas, Texas-based wealth adviser for J.P.
Morgan Private Bank, which is based in New York. A provision
that allowed taxpayers to roll over a distribution directly to a
charity and avoid income tax expired at the end of 2009, she
said.  IRA holders should also try to take their required
withdrawals at roughly the same time every year to avoid
mistakes or forgetting about it, Fleming, of PwC, said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Kucera  in New York at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Levinson at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 