-- Mark Shapiro Gets 85-Year Term for $23 Million `Cobalt' Real Estate Scam
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2010-10-21T21:30:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/mark-shapiro-gets-85-year-term-for-23-million-cobalt-real-estate-scam.html
Mark Alan Shapiro, one of three men
convicted of defrauding more than 250 people of $23 million in
the so-called Cobalt real estate investment scam, was sentenced
to 85 years in federal prison.  U.S. District Judge  Kimba M. Wood  imposed the maximum
sentence on Shapiro, 50, in a hearing today in federal court in
Manhattan.  Shapiro,  Irving Stitsky , and William Foster were convicted
in November of defrauding investors in a network of companies
named Cobalt, which claimed to have interests in residential
real estate developments throughout the U.S.  In July, Wood sentenced Stitsky to 85 years, calling him an
“inveterate con man.” Foster, whom Wood said had a “much
lesser role” in the crime than Shapiro and Stitsky, got three
years in September. Foster and Stitsky have appealed.  The government alleged that the defendants fraudulently
lured investors into the scheme by inventing a false history for
Cobalt, failing to disclose that the company was owned and
controlled by Stitsky and Shapiro, convicted felons, and
misstating Cobalt’s property interests.  Stitsky, Shapiro and Foster were convicted by a jury after
a three-week trial that ended last November. Each was found
guilty of two counts of securities fraud, one of mail fraud, one
of wire fraud and one of conspiracy.  In addition to the prison sentence, Wood ordered that
Shapiro pay $22 million in restitution and forfeit $23 million
in proceeds from the crime.  The case is U.S. v. Shapiro, 06-cr-357, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in U.S. District Court in New York at
   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 