-- Harvard's Rogoff Says U.K. May Face `Bad Decade' If Deficit Left Unchecked
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2010-10-21T08:38:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/harvard-s-rogoff-says-u-k-may-face-bad-decade-if-deficit-left-unchecked.html
Harvard University professor  Kenneth Rogoff  said the U.K. risks having a “bad decade” if the  budget
deficit  is left uncut.  “I think there’s been too much concentration on the short-
run effect and not enough on long-term fundamentals, getting the
size of the deficit down, assuring businesses that tax rates
aren’t going to go through the roof,” Rogoff said in an
interview on  BBC Radio 4’s “Today”  program. “The concern here
is not just if you have a recession in the short run,” he said.
“There’s a risk of having a bad decade here.”  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  gave details of
the deepest budget cuts in Britain since World War II yesterday,
eliminating almost 500,000 public-sector jobs and imposing a
levy on banks to extract the “maximum sustainable” revenue.
The plans have sparked concern Britain’s economic recovery may
be derailed.  “If you go into a deep recession you have to act
accordingly, also with monetary policy,” Rogoff told the BBC.
“Remember, this is a promise of what to do and nobody knows
which direction the economy is going, the European economy, the
world economy, and four years is a very long time.”  The spending cuts would reduce public spending by 81
billion pounds ($128 billion) after inflation, narrowing a
deficit that the government forecasts at 10.1 percent of gross
domestic product this year to 2.1 percent in the 2014-15 fiscal
year. Debt interest costs would fall by more than 5 billion
pounds by 2015.  “They’ve just got elected, this is it,” Rogoff told the
BBC. “In two years it’ll be impossible to do anything, look at
what happened to Obama in the United States, and so you really
have to make a big push here and we’ll see how it goes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Svenja O’Donnell  in Vienna at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  