-- Stocks Advance on Earnings; Gold Retreats as Dollar Rebounds
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2010-10-21T20:50:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/asian-stocks-decline-on-china-mobile-profit-hana-share-sale-dollar-rises.html
Stocks  rose a second day as earnings
at EBay Inc., Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. and McDonald’s
Corp. beat analyst estimates, offsetting losses in bank shares.
Gold slid as the  dollar  gained, while Treasuries dropped.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.2 percent to
1,180.26 at 4 p.m. in New York after falling as much as 0.6
percent. Gold futures lost 1.4 percent to $1,325.60 an ounce.
 The Dollar Index  rose 0.4 percent after retreating the same
amount. Oil slid 2.4 percent to $80.56 a barrel as refining in
China grew the least in 18 months. The 10-year Treasury note’s
yield climbed six basis points to 2.54 percent.  More than 76 percent of MSCI World Index companies that
reported quarterly results since Oct. 7 have  beaten  the average
analyst estimate, bolstering optimism that earnings growth will
hold up even as the economic recovery slows. China’s economy
expanded 9.6 percent in the third quarter, increasing pressure
on the country to let the yuan gain as Group of 20 officials
prepared to meet in Seoul tomorrow to discuss currencies.  “From an investment perspective, I think of this economy
as an Irish summer,” said  David Kelly , who helps oversee $445
billion as chief market strategist for JPMorgan Funds in New
York. “It’s very disappointing if you go there on vacation. But
if you’re trying to grow things, it’s actually pretty good. This
is great time for growing profits. That should help the stock
market go up.”  Highest Since Lehman  The Dow Jones Industrial Average turned lower earlier after
rising above its highest close since the week of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.’s bankruptcy in September 2008. Bank of America
Corp., facing demands for refunds from mortgage-bond holders,
tumbled 3.3 percent to a 16-month low. Financial shares extended
losses as a government report said Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac,
the mortgage-finance companies under U.S. conservatorship, may
need as much as $363 billion in aid through 2013.  EBay , the owner of the largest auction site, jumped 6
percent, while  McDonald’s  gained 1.3 percent. Freeport advanced
1.1 percent.  Netflix Inc. , the movie-rental service, surged 13
percent after increasing subscriber projections.  Bank of America
Corp.  slid 3.3 percent.  Alcoa Inc.  and Occidental Petroleum
Corp. slumped at least 1.3 percent as commodities prices sank
following a gain in the U.S. dollar.  The S&P 500 has rallied 15 percent from its 2010 low in
July as investors speculated the Federal Reserve will pump more
cash into the economy and earnings topped analyst estimates at
86 percent of the companies in the index that have
reported third-quarter results since Oct. 7.  ‘Modest Pace’  The S&P 500 rose 1.1 percent yesterday after the Fed said
in its Beige Book business survey that the economy grew at a
“modest pace” in September, while results at Boeing Co. and
Yahoo! Inc. surpassed analysts’ projections.  Initial jobless claims fell last week by 23,000 to 452,000,
a level that’s consistent with little improvement in the labor
market, Labor Department figures showed today. The Conference
Board’s gauge of the outlook for the next three to six months
rose 0.3 percent, matching the median estimate of economists in
a survey. A Federal Reserve gauge of manufacturing in
Philadelphia trailed estimates.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  rose 0.5 percent, while the
MSCI China Index advanced 0.9 percent. Russia’s Micex Index
increased 2.3 percent to the highest in six months after the
government said it plans to raise $59 billion through asset
sales in the next five years to balance the budget. India’s
Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index added 2 percent.  Dollar Gains  The dollar strengthened against 13 of 16 major
counterparts, erasing earlier losses versus the euro to advance
0.3 percent to $1.3921 against the shared currency. The dollar
strengthened 0.3 percent to 81.35 yen after reaching a 15-year
low yesterday.  Global finance ministers are planning to say members will
refrain from “competitive undervaluation” of currencies to
soothe trade tensions, an official from a G-20 country said,
citing a draft statement and speaking on condition of anonymity.  Earlier gains in the euro came after an index of euro-
region manufacturing industries rose more than predicted this
month, data from Markit Economics showed today.  The British pound depreciated against 13 of 16 major peers,
falling 1 percent to $1.5698. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said the Bank of England has freedom to use monetary-
policy tools if the squeeze in fiscal policy hurts domestic
demand. He defended his deficit-cutting plan, telling the BBC
that “if we don’t take this path, then economic ruin lies
ahead.” The pound extended declines as a report showed U.K.
retail sales unexpectedly dropped in September for a second
month.  Extra Yield  The extra yield, or spread, that investors demand to hold
Spanish 10-year bonds instead of similar-maturity benchmark
German bunds  rose  five basis points to 1.67 percentage points
after demand fell at a sale by the Iberian nation of 2025 bonds.
Investors bid for 1.44 times the amount of Spanish securities
offered, compared with a bid-to-cover ratio of 2.57 the last
time the debt was sold on July 15.  The Greek-German spread  widened  20 basis points to 6.81
percentage points, while the Portuguese-German 10-year gap
 increased  nine basis points to 3.38 percentage points. The Irish
10-year-bund spread rose 15 basis points to 4.03 percentage
points. The yield on the 10-year German bund rose four basis
points to 2.48 percent.  Rice for January delivery rose on concern that stronger
demand and crop losses may curb global supply.  Arabica coffee rose to a 13-year high of $2.035 a pound in
New York on concern that output may fall next year in Brazil and
Colombia, the world’s two biggest growers of the variety.
Robusta coffee reached a two-year high in London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael P. Regan  in New York 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 