-- Most Asian Stocks Drop as China Growth Slows; India Advances on Earnings
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 2010-10-21T10:53:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/asian-stocks-drop-for-a-fifth-day-led-by-banks-hana-financial-declines.html
Most  Asian stocks  fell after China’s
economy grew at the slowest pace in a year. Indian stocks rose
on optimism corporate earnings are rebounding.  China Mobile Ltd. , the world’s biggest phone company, lost
1.5 percent in Hong Kong after reporting profit that missed
analysts’ estimates.  Hana Financial Group Inc.  slumped 7.3
percent in Seoul after Temasek Holdings Pte sold shares at a
discount. Tata Consultancy Services Ltd., India’s largest
exporter of software, gained 2.4 percent ahead of its earnings
report today.  About 12 stocks declined for every 11 that advanced in the
 MSCI Asia Pacific Index , which rose 0.1 percent to 129.87 as of
7:51 p.m. in Tokyo. The measure has risen 19 percent from its
2010 low on May 25 on speculation growth in profits will weather
Europe’s debt crisis, Chinese steps to curb property-price
inflation and a faltering U.S. economy.  “There’s nothing in the China numbers that suggests a need
for more tightening, but the market’s still nervous about
that,” said  Shane Oliver , Sydney-based head of investment
strategy at AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which manages $85
billion. “Having risen so far, so fast over a short period,
shares and risk assets in Asia were vulnerable to a bit of a
pullback.”  China’s Shanghai Composite Index slid 0.7 percent, while
Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index gained 0.4 percent. Japan’s  Nikkei
225 Stock Average , and Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index were little
changed. South Korea’s Kospi Index rose 0.2 percent. The Bombay
Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index increased 0.7 percent.  Global Recovery  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  gained 0.5
percent. The gauge rose 1.1 percent yesterday amid speculation
the Federal Reserve will inject more money into the economy. The
Fed said in its Beige Book business survey that U.S. economic
growth showed little sign of accelerating last month, fueling
speculation it will boost purchases of government debt.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index has risen 7.8 percent this year
as government and industry reports from the U.S. and China
fueled confidence in the global economic recovery. Stocks in the
gauge trade at 14.2 times  estimated profit  on average, near the
cheapest level this month.  China Mobile declined 1.5 percent to HK$81 and was the
second-heaviest drag on the MSCI index. The company’s third-
quarter net income increased 3.5 percent to 29.6 billion yuan
($4.5 billion) from a year earlier, according to figures derived
from nine-month earnings reported by the Beijing-based company
yesterday. Profit was expected to be 30 billion yuan, according
to the average of eight analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg
News.  China’s Economy  China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd. , the nation’s second-largest
wireless operator, dropped 1.2 percent to HK$11.40. The company
is expected to announce its third-quarter earnings on Oct. 29.  China’s economy grew 9.6 percent in the third quarter, the
smallest gain in a year, as inflation accelerated in September
to the fastest pace in 23 months. The increase in gross domestic
product from a year earlier topped economists’ median 9.5
percent estimate.  The country’s central bank increased interest rates two
days ago for the first time since 2007, highlighting the
government’s confidence in an economic recovery and concern
about the risks of asset bubbles and inflation. Consumer prices
rose 3.6 percent last month, the statistics bureau said at a
briefing in Beijing. That matched the median forecast.  Banks Retreat  Financial stocks  were the heaviest drag on the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index among its 10 industry groups after  Mario Draghi ,
the chairman of the Financial Stability Board, said officials
would continue to work on options to regulate large lenders.  Regulators are searching for ways to ensure that banks
deemed too big to fail are able to withstand financial shocks,
such as the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
Finance ministers and central bankers are meeting in the South
Korean capital this weekend to discuss the global economy.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. , Japan’s largest
publicly traded bank, sank 1 percent to 383 yen. National
Australia Bank Ltd., the country’s biggest business lender, slid
2.1 percent to A$24.51.  Shinhan Financial Group Co. , South
Korea’s No. 1 financial company by market value, declined 2.5
percent to 44,050 won.  “Concerns financial regulations will be tightened are
weighing on financial stocks, as that would mean banks would
need to raise more capital,” said  Michiya Tomita , a Hong Kong-
based fund manager at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co., which
oversees $65 billion globally.  Hana Share Sale  Hana Financial lost 7.3 percent to 32,950 won, the steepest
percentage decline on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index of almost
1,000 companies. Temasek, Singapore’s state-owned investment
company, sold its entire 9.6 percent stake in Hana Financial for
681 billion won ($605 million), or 33,400 won a share, two
people with knowledge of the deal said. That’s 6 percent less
than yesterday’s closing price.  In Sydney,  Sims Metal Management Ltd. , the world’s biggest
recycler of scrap metal, slumped 7.2 percent to A$16.19. The
company said first-quarter profit declined 75 percent from a
year earlier as scrap flows and margins remain constrained.  Sims Metal had the second-largest percentage drop on MSCI’s
Asia Pacific index, behind Hana Financial.  Central Japan Railway Co. , Japan’s second-biggest railway
company by sales tumbled 5.7 percent to 609,000 yen, the largest
slump in the Nikkei 225. The government said a planned magnetic-
levitation line linking Tokyo and Nagoya may cost more than the
company forecast.  Tata, Power Grid  Among stocks that advanced,  Tata Consultancy  gained 2.4
percent to 986.2 rupees. The company’s profit may increase 23
percent, according to the average of 35 analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Rival Infosys Technologies Ltd. climbed
1.7 percent to 3,030.1 rupees.  Power Grid Corp. of India Ltd. , India’s biggest
transmission company, advanced 1.3 percent to 105.6 rupees after
second-quarter profit increased 42 percent.  “The earnings are going to drive the markets,” said
 Kishor Ostwal , managing director of CNI Research (India) Ltd., a
publicly traded equities research provider in Mumbai.
“Investors would like to put their money in companies whose
earnings growth would be robust.”  A gauge of consumer-staples companies in the MSCI measure
advanced the most among the index’s 10 groups.  Wesfarmers Ltd. ,
Australia’s second-largest retailer, climbed 2.5 percent to
A$33.76. First-quarter sales at its Coles supermarket and
convenience stores rose faster than estimated by analysts,
figures released by the company today showed.  Samsung Electronics Co. , Asia’s biggest maker of
semiconductors and mobile phones, gained 2.7 percent to 765,000
won in Seoul. Verizon Wireless, the largest U.S. mobile-phone
carrier, will start selling the South Korean company’s tablet
computer next month, introducing one of the first competitors to
Apple Inc.’s iPad in the U.S.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan Burgos  in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net . 