-- AstraZeneca, Boeing, Och-Ziff: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2010-10-21T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/astrazeneca-boeing-och-ziff-pepsico-intellectual-property.html
Drugmakers’ strategies that may have
kept cheaper copies of medicines off the market this year will
be probed by European Union antitrust regulators.  The European Commission said yesterday that it will examine
agreements that may have slowed the sale of generic medicines.
The move follows an earlier probe concerning drug-industry
settlements from mid-2008 to the end of last year.  “We will carry out another monitoring exercise probably at
the beginning of 2011 covering then the period January 2010 to
December 2010.” Dominik Schnichels, head of the EU regulator’s
pharmaceuticals task force, said yesterday at a conference in
Brussels.  Antitrust regulators on both sides of the Atlantic are
focusing on how patent-infringement settlements between branded-
drug makers and generic manufacturers might harm consumers. The
commission said in a  report  last year that companies use a
variety of techniques to delay the introduction of generics
“for as long as possible.”  The commission estimated potential savings of 3 billion
euros ($4.14 billion) had generic medicines entered the market
immediately after patent protection was lost.  AstraZeneca Plc  last month said it appealed to the EU’s
highest court over a decision that it flouted antitrust rules to
keep generic competitors off the market.  More than 500 False Patent-Marking Cases Filed in 2010  A lawyer from  Foley & Lardner LLP  who is tracking the false
patent-marking disputes said more than 500 suits have been filed
this year.  Justin E. Gray , a litigation associate at the Milwaukee-
based firm, posted his findings on his blog, “Gray on Claims.”  He said that almost half the cases were filed in federal
court in the Eastern District of Texas. The second most popular
venue is the Northern District of Illinois, followed by the
Northern District of Ohio, the Northern District of Texas, and
the Southern District of Illinois.  The bulk of the patents were filed by organizations rather
than individual persons. The leading filer is something called
the Patent Group LLC, which has filed 85 suits. It’s followed by
Promote Innovation LLC, with 45; Simonian, with 40; Unique
Production Solutions Ltd, with 30; and Tex Pat LLC, with 15.  The spate of suits may end soon, if Congress passes  H.R.
6352 , which would amend patent laws to allow for a single
$500 penalty for marking an object with the wrong or an expired
patent number, rather than a penalty multiplied by the number of
articles falsely marked.  The bill, sponsored by U.S. Rep  Bob Latta , a Republican
from Ohio, would also require plaintiffs to prove they have
suffered “competitive injury” in order to have standing to
bring such a case.  Gray said in his blog that he daily updates a chart of
false-marking case filings.  Among the companies that have been sued in recent months
for false patent markings are  Procter & Gamble Co. ,  Home Depot
Inc. , Bose Corp.,  Kimberly-Clark Corp. ,  Alcoa Inc. ,   Boeing Co. ,
and  ConAgra Foods Inc.,  according to Bloomberg data.  Boeing Patents Method of Reducing Takeoff, Landing Noise  The Boeing Co., which said it will deliver 400 jets this
year, received a patent on a new method of airport noise
reduction.  Patent 7,815,143, which is one of  4,698 U.S. patents  issued
Oct. 19, covers a technology to reduce the noise created by
landing gear upon first contact with the runway.  According to the patent, most airport noise-reduction
efforts have previously been aimed at aircraft engines. One of
the reasons noise reduction is desirable is that some airports
base their landing fees on the intensity of noise an aircraft
produces.  The invention covered by the patent is based on the
discovery that the orientation of the landing gear plays a
significant role in noise production at takeoff and landing.
This is because the pattern of airflow over the landing-gear
assembly generates noise, depending on the assembly’s
orientation.  The patented technology permits the rotation of the
assembly at touchdown or for its retraction into the aircraft
upon takeoff while keeping them otherwise substantially parallel
to the aircraft’s water line.  Boeing applied for this patent in August 2006, with the
assistance of Tung Associates of Bloomfield, Michigan.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Land Rover Sues Florida Auto-Repair Shop For Infringement  Land Rover, the U.K.-based maker of off-road vehicles, sued
a Florida auto-repair business for trademark infringement.  The suit stems from Oztralia Inc.’s alleged use of “The
Rover Shop” and “Prestige British Rover” to promote its
services. The U.K.-based company also objects to domain names
prestigebritishlandrover.com and prestigebritishrover.com and
the 954-76-ROVER telephone number Oztralia uses.  The accused company isn’t an authorized Land Rover dealer
or repair shop, according to the complaint filed Oct. 19 in
federal court in Ft. Lauderdale, Florida. It also hasn’t been
authorized to register the domain names and telephone number to
which the British company objects, according to court papers.  Land Rover claims the public is confused and deceived by
Oztralia’s unauthorized use of these names, and asked the court
to bar the Florida company from using them in the future.  Additionally, Land Rover seeks destruction of all
infringing products and promotional materials, and transfer of
the allegedly infringing domain names. The British company also
asked for a court-ordered audit of Oztralia’s books, to
determine to scope of the unauthorized use of the Rover
intellectual property.  Land Rover requested money damages, and asked that they be
tripled to punish Oztralia for its alleged infringement, and is
seeking awards of attorney fees and litigation costs.  The U.K. company is represented by  Manuel Kushner  of New
York’s  Kaye Scholer LLP  and  Anessa Owen Kramer  and  Brian D.
Wassom  of Detroit’s  Honigman Miller Schwartz & Cohn LLP .  The case is Land Rover v. Oztralia Inc., 0:10-cv-62007-JIC,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of Florida (Ft.
Lauderdale).  Och-Ziff Wins Trademark Suit Against London Investment Firm  Och-Ziff Capital Management Group , the hedge-fund firm run
by Daniel Och, won a lawsuit against a London investment adviser
and its founder to block the use of the Och name.  OCH Capital LLP  and Thomas Ochocki infringed the Och-Ziff
trademark, Judge Richard Arnold in London ruled yesterday. Och-
Ziff’s European unit sued the London firm last year and asked
the court to stop the firm from using the first portion of its
name. Och-Ziff has more than $26 billion in assets under
management for about 600 investors.  OCH Capital began operating in September 2009, according to
the judgment. Och-Ziff learned of the firm when an interior
designer who works for the hedge fund saw the OCH Capital sign
on a building in the Mayfair neighborhood of London and assumed
it was Och-Ziff. Two other men, an art consultant and an
investment banker, also confused the two, according to
testimony.  “OCH is strongly distinctive for financial services,”
Arnold said in the judgment. “There is a manifest likelihood of
confusion on the part of both types of consumer.”  Ochocki said he would comment on the judgment later.
Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for New York-based Och-Ziff,
declined to comment.  Damages in the case will be set at a later hearing.  A lawyer for OCH Capital, Alistair Wilson, said during a
three-day trial two weeks ago that the London-based firm
pronounces its name as initials, and offered to Och-Ziff to
clarify that late last year by changing its name to O.C.H.
Capital. The name was never changed, Arnold said in the
judgment.  Ochocki named the firm after the first three letters of his
last name because colleagues and clients had trouble pronouncing
it, according to the judgment. Before his firm, Ochocki worked
as a stockbroker since 2001.  Och-Ziff’s lawyers sent OCH Capital a letter in October of
2009, alleging trademark infringement and passing off, and asked
the investment adviser to change its name. The hedge fund sought
trademark protection for OCH the same month and sued OCH Capital
in November 2009 after not receiving a reply. The trademark was
registered in June.  At the time Och-Ziff sent the letter, the London-based firm
“had only just started trading, its website was still under
construction and its brochure had not been printed,” the
judgment said. “It would therefore have been relatively easy
for it to change or at least modify its name at that stage.
Despite this, OCH Capital carried on using OCH.”  Ochocki, who “admitted in his evidence that he had been at
least vaguely aware of the existence of Och-Ziff before he had
set up OCH Capital,” should have “appreciated that there was
at least a risk of confusion,” Arnold said.  Och-Ziff was started in 1994 by former  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc.  trader Och, 49, and Ziff Brothers Investments LLC with
money from the Ziff media empire.  The case is Och-Ziff Management Europe v. OCH Capital LLP,
case No. 112/10, High Court of Justice, Chancery Division
(London).  Pepsico Yokes Doritos Mark to Rhianna, International Artists  Pepsico Inc. ’s Doritos trademark is to be associated with
pop singer Rhianna in two videos available to fans only when
they point a graphic symbol on a special Doritos package to
their computers’ web cameras.  Other artists who will be part of the Dorito Late Night
program are Canada’s Down with Webster, Professor Green from the
U.K., Mor Ve Otesi from Turkey, Brazil’s Sensacional Orchestra
Sonora and Teargas from South Africa.  The program -- with the symbols on special bags of Doritos
-- will feature the various musicians in their respective
markets, according to a company statement.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Boney Kapoor of BSK Network Sought in Indian Copyright Case  An Indian court has issued a warrant against an Indian
movie producer for failing to appear in a copyright-infringement
case, the Hindustan Times reported.  Boney Kapoor , his wife Sridevi, and four others are accused
in a copyright infringement case involving writer Singh Rana,
the newspaper reported.  Rana accused Kapoors’  BSK Network and Entertainment Pvt
Ltd.  of using his script without authorization for their movie
“ Wanted ,” according to the newspaper.  The writer claimed the company rejected a script he
submitted in 2004 and then released the movie in 2009 he claims
was based on that script, according to the Hindustan Times.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 