-- AT&T Sales Beat Analysts' Estimates on Rising IPhone Demand
-- B y   G r e g   B e n s i n g e r
-- 2010-10-21T20:16:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/at-t-sales-beat-analysts-estimates-on-rising-iphone-demand.html
AT&T Inc. , the largest U.S. phone
company, posted third-quarter earnings that matched analysts’
estimates as demand for  Apple Inc. ’s iPhone helped offset
revenue declines at the traditional landline business.  Earnings, excluding one-time items, rose to 55 cents a
share, meeting the average of  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.
Sales rose 2.8 percent to $31.6 billion, Dallas-based AT&T said
in a statement today. Analysts projected $31.2 billion.  AT&T, the exclusive U.S. carrier for the iPhone, activated
a record 5.2 million of the devices in the quarter, helping the
company boost sales as customers abandoned landline phones in
favor of mobile handsets. The carrier is also facing stiffer
competition after  Verizon Wireless  debuted smartphones running
Google Inc.’s Android software and  Sprint Nextel Corp.  rolled
out a network with faster data speeds.  “This was a good quarter for iPhone sales and the overall
revenue growth is impressive in this environment,”  Rick Franklin , an Edward Jones analyst in St. Louis, said in an
interview. “AT&T is still not seeing any growth in its wireline
business.”  Revenue from AT&T’s wireline services, which comprise about
half of total sales, fell 3 percent to $15.3 billion. Wireless
revenue rose 11 percent to $15.2 billion.  AT&T, the second-largest U.S. wireless carrier, gained a
net 2.6 million new mobile customers including 745,000 contract
subscribers.  Todd Rethemeier , a Hudson Square Research analyst
in New York, estimated AT&T would add 750,000 contract users.  AT&T declined 27 cents to $28.34 at 4 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite  trading . The shares have added 1.1
percent this year.  Verizon Competition  The carrier boosted iPhone activations by 63 percent from a
year earlier. About 24 percent of the activations were for new
customers, compared with 40 percent a year earlier. Apple
introduced the iPhone 4 in June and the  iPad tablet computer  in
April, linking both devices to AT&T’s network.  Verizon Wireless, the largest U.S. mobile carrier, may
begin selling the iPhone on its network as soon as January, two
people familiar with the plan said in June. The Basking Ridge,
New Jersey-based company has said it will start selling the iPad
this month, gaining access to a device that AT&T started
providing wireless service for earlier this year.  Data-Revenue Focus  AT&T’s revenue from wireless subscribers on data plans grew
about 31 percent to $4.8 billion. The carrier this year stopped
offering unlimited data plans in favor of so-called tiered
pricing starting at half the price.  The company will focus more on attracting existing and new
customers to its data plans, which result in high average
revenue per user,  Brooks McCorcle , senior vice president of
investor relations, said in interview. “It’s not just about
adding more and more customers every quarter,” she said.  Wireless churn, or the rate at which customers leave AT&T,
was 1.32 percent, compared with 1.42 percent a year earlier and
1.29 percent in the second quarter.  Net income in the three months through September rose to
$12.3 billion, or $2.08 a share, from $3.19 billion, or 54
cents, a year earlier. The results include a one-time $8.3
billion gain related to the depreciation of assets from the 2006
acquisition of Cingular Wireless. Excluding one-time items,
earnings a year earlier were 53 cents.  Verizon Communications Inc., which co-owns Verizon Wireless
with Vodafone Group Plc, reports third-quarter earnings
tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Bensinger  in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  