-- Tata Consultancy Shares Gain to Record; Wipro Falls as Net Misses Estimate
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2010-10-22T11:32:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/tata-consultancy-net-income-beats-estimates-as-outsurcing-orders-increase.html
Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. ,
India’s largest software exporter, climbed to a record in Mumbai
trading after the company’s profit growth outpaced those of
 Infosys Technologies Ltd.  and Wipro Ltd.  Tata Consultancy jumped 5.5 percent to 1,040.20 rupees, the
highest since the  shares  began trading in August 2004, after the
company reported yesterday second-quarter profit that beat
analyst estimates. Wipro fell 4.5 percent, the most since
January, after its earnings in the last quarter lagged behind
estimates.  Tata’s profit increased 32 percent, more than double
Infosys’s growth and three times faster than Bangalore-based
Wipro’s 9.4 percent profit gain. The growth in outsourcing
orders for India’s three top computer-services providers
contrasts with  International Business Machines Corp ., which
earlier this week posted its third straight quarterly drop in
new contracts.  “Customers are increasingly consolidating outsourcing
projects and Tata Consultancy has been on the favorable end of
that,” said  Rahul Jain , an analyst at Dolat Capital Market Ltd.
“Tata Consultancy has been a big-time winner of the large
transformational deals.”  Infosys, the second-largest software exporter, gained 0.6
percent to 3,053.15 rupees at the 3:30 p.m. close of trading.  Positive Outlook  Mumbai-based Tata’s Chief Executive Officer N.
Chandrasekaran said the growth achieved in the past three months
makes the company “positive” in its outlook for global demand.
 Infosys  last week raised its guidance, indicating increased
corporate spending on information technology.  Tata Consultancy is gaining over smaller rivals because
clients prefer to stay with one vendor while spending their
budgets, said Vihang Naik, an analyst at MF Global Ltd.  “Clients are prone to have two or three big vendors,
rather than a plethora of smaller vendors due to the economies
of scale a single vendor can provide,” said Naik.  Worldwide IT spending by businesses and governments, which
includes computer equipment and software purchases, will grow 7
percent this year to $1.5 trillion, after falling by 8.6 percent
last year, according to  Forrester Research Inc.   The U.S. will lead the growth, spending an estimated $758
billion on IT this year, according to the Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based researcher. Spending in the country will
outpace gross domestic product growth as companies make up for
orders delayed during last year’s recession, Forrester said.  “There’s been a shift in preference from the top U.S. and
global companies to the Indian companies because of gains you
make on offshoring in terms of cost savings,” said Srividhya
Rajesh, who manages 24 billion rupees of equities including Tata
Consultancy at Chennai-based Sundaram BNP Paribas Asset
Management Co. “Offshoring has gained momentum since the
downturn.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ketaki Gokhale  in Mumbai 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 