-- Hatoyama to Lobby Vietnam on Obtaining Rare Earth Supplies, Atomic Project
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 2010-10-21T09:11:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/hatoyama-to-lobby-vietnam-on-rare-earth-supplies-for-japan-atomic-project.html
Japan’s former Prime Minister  Yukio Hatoyama  will lead a delegation to Vietnam to discuss obtaining
rare earth supplies and lobby for nuclear and rail contracts, an
official in his office said.  Hatoyama will leave for Vietnam tomorrow, Daisuke Haga,
Hatoyama’s parliamentary secretary for policy said. Nine other
officials will join the trade delegation, he said. A meeting is
planned with Prime Minister  Nguyen Tan Dung  on Oct. 25 in Hanoi,
said a Vietnamese National Assembly official who can’t be named
because he isn’t authorized to speak to the media.  Japan is seeking alternative supplies of rare earth metals
after China, which controls more than 90 percent of world
supply, cut export quotas of the materials used in  Toyota Motor
Corp . hybrid cars as well as disk drives and batteries. Prime
Minister  Naoto Kan ’s government set aside an unspecified amount
of money to find new sources of the metals in a stimulus plan on
Oct. 8. Nikkei English News reported the rare earth fund may be
as much as 100 billion yen ($1.2 billion).  The delegation will also be lobbying for companies led by
 Tokyo Electric Power Co.  to be awarded a contract to build an
atomic power station and for Vietnam to choose Japan’s bullet-
train technology for its planned high-speed railway network,
Haga said. Vietnam in August agreed to seek technical support
from Japan to conduct a feasibility study for bullet trains to
link major cities.  Rare Earth Shortage  Japan may have a shortage of about 10,000 tons of rare
earths next year, or more than 30 percent of the country’s
annual demand, according to  Sojitz Corp ., a trading house that
imports most of the nation’s supply.  Toyota Tsusho Corp ., a trading company affiliated with
Toyota Motor, formed a joint venture with Sojitz and a
Vietnamese state-run mining company to import rare earths to
Japan from 2012, Katsutoshi Yokoi, a Tokyo-based spokesman,
said. Showa Denko K.K., the world’s second-biggest hard-disk
maker, opened a rare-earth plant in Vietnam in May this year.  “Companies typically stockpile around a half-year’s worth
of rare earth supply, so they should be okay for now,” said
 Shinya Yamada , a Tokyo-based equity analyst covering
manufacturing companies at Credit Suisse Group AG.  “It is feasible they might not be able to get anything out
of China until the end of this year and if exports don’t resume
next year, we will see trade issues involving the World Trade
Organization, leading to economic friction,” he said.  ‘Behind Schedule’  Showa Denko declined to say how much rare earths they
stockpile. Shipments from China are “behind schedule,” Junichi
Tagaki, a Tokyo-based spokesman said.  The company makes rare-earth alloy at two plants in China
and plans to produce 800 tons of rare-earth metals in Vietnam
this year for making neodymium-magnets, Tagaki said.  Neodymium-magnets are the most powerful magnets available,
according to the website of supplier United Nuclear Scientific
LLC. The magnets are used in machines used by the healthcare
industry and in electricity generators.  Tokyo Electric,  Toshiba Corp. ,  Hitachi Ltd. ,  Mitsubishi
Heavy Industries Ltd.  and partners will start a joint venture on
Oct. 22 to supply atomic reactors to Vietnam and other
developing countries. Japan wants to boost a  stagnating economy 
by exporting technology for power generation, so-called smart
power grids and high-speed railways.  Nuclear Power Plants  Vietnam said on June 22 it plans to build as many as 13
nuclear power plants with a capacity of 16,000 megawatts by
2030. Russia’s state-owned Rosatom Corp. was selected to build
Vietnam’s first atomic power station, the Vietnam Agency for
Radiation and Nuclear Safety said on June 17.  Hatoyama, who promoted Japanese nuclear and rail technology
while he was prime minister for eight months through June, wrote
to Dung in February to support Japanese companies bidding for
the next Vietnamese atomic power station. Dung responded in a
letter that Vietnam will give “maximum, serious consideration”
to Japan’s technology.  State Secretary for Foreign Affairs Takeaki Matsumoto is
among the officials visiting Vietnam, Haga said. Japan’s foreign
ministry and the Vietnamese National Assembly’s external affairs
department declined to comment.  Yoshikatsu Nakayama , vice minister of economy trade and
industry, will travel to Vietnam on Oct. 23, the trade ministry
said in a statement yesterday. The ministry wouldn’t confirm who
else was traveling to the southeast Asian nation.  Meetings will be held at the ministries of transport, trade
and industry, science and technology, and natural resources and
environment, the Vietnamesee official said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tsuyoshi Inajima  in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash in Singapore at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 