-- Mattel's American Girl Faces Disney, Toys `R' Us Holiday Rivals
-- B y   I a n   T h o m s o n
-- 2010-10-21T20:14:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/mattel-s-big-doll-reign-with-american-girl-targeted-by-disney-toys-r-us.html
American Girl, the  Mattel Inc.  doll
that has dominated the big (18 inches, or 46 centimeters, tall)
and expensive ($95) part of the market for 24 years, may have to
watch her back this holiday season.  Toys ‘R’ Us Inc., Walt Disney Co. and MGA Entertainment
Inc. are all out to get her. Toys ‘R’ Us, the world’s biggest
toy retailer, has introduced a line of ethnic dolls called
Journey Girls for $29.99. Disney’s $49.99 Princess & Me doll has
made “most wanted” lists from Toy Insider and
TimetoPlayMag.com. MGA’s Best Friends Club features a $32.99
doll that promotes friendship through a storytelling website.  The trio of new big dolls may be the biggest threat to
American Girl sales since a Wisconsin educator created the
history-themed characters in 1986. With U.S. unemployment
hovering at 9.6 percent, the cheaper entrants may be appealing
to gift buyers seeking to economize.  “The angle most people seem to be pursuing is to price
well below American Girl,” said  Edward Woo , an analyst at
Wedbush Securities Inc. in Los Angeles. “That’s an opportunity
to break into this market.”  Toys ‘R’ Us decided to enter the market after observing the
continuing popularity of big dolls, Lisa Harnisch, a vice
president of the Wayne, New Jersey-based retailer, said in an
interview. About a year ago, she and her colleagues met with
manufacturers and concluded 18-inch dolls -- more than six
inches taller than Mattel’s Barbie line -- would sell well
during the 2010 holiday season; Journey Girl was born.  Each doll comes with a back story describing its travel
experiences and hobbies. Taryn is a musician who dreams of
playing at the New Orleans Jazz Festival; Meredith is a skier
who hopes to visit the Alps.  ‘Like Friends’  “Kids can really relate to these larger dolls,” Harnisch
said. “They’re like friends to the girls who play with them.”  The Disney Princess & Me line,  Disney’s  first foray into
18-inch dolls, features six popular movie characters including
Cinderella, Ariel from “The Little Mermaid” and Aurora from
“Sleeping Beauty.” Among other accessories, girls can get the
same outfits as their dolls.  “The popularity and success of American Girl has opened
the market to other brands and opportunities,” Jennifer Caveza,
a marketing vice president at  JAKKS Pacific Inc ., which makes
the Disney Princess dolls, said in an e-mail.  Nathalie Crausse, a flight attendant from Montpellier,
France, was at the flagship Toys ‘R’ Us store in Times Square on
Oct. 8, checking out Disney Princess & Me outfits for her 6-
year-old daughter, Tara. Crausse is a regular in the store
during her bimonthly stopovers in New York and says she has
bought eight Disney Princess dresses in the past 18 months.  ‘Buy Something’  “If I can’t get something for my daughter,” said Crausse,
“I always buy something for the doll.”  MGA’s Best Friends Club line aren’t the only dolls the
company makes that competes with Mattel products. MGA’s Bratz
line has gone head to head with Barbie. The two companies have
tussled in court over the ownership rights to Bratz. In July, an
appeals court overturned an earlier ruling that had awarded the
rights to Mattel.  Pushing American Girl aside won’t be easy, says New York-
based toy industry analyst  Sean McGowan  of Needham & Co.  “American Girl is not purchased instead of any other
doll,” said McGowan, explaining that the dolls appeal to
customers who aren’t easily swayed by price. “It’s just a
different kind of purchase.” McGowan expects this year’s sales
to surpass the record $463 million in both 2008 and 2009.  Educator  American Girl first appeared in 1986 after  Pleasant T. Rowland , an educator and writer based in Madison, Wisconsin, was
looking for dolls for her nieces. Rowland couldn’t find any that
represented girls aged nine to 12.  She decided to create a line of dolls and books
representing periods of American history, from Felicity
Merriman, a colonial girl from 1774, to Molly McIntire, a World
War Two-era girl from 1944. The dolls’ popularity attracted the
interest of  Mattel , which bought Rowland’s company for $700
million in 1998.  The El Segundo, California-based toymaker kept the craze
going by opening stores, which now number nine, and backing a
series of movies. Mattel added contemporary dolls in 1995, with
varying combinations of skin tone, eye color and hair style.  Sales Rose  Sales surged 15 percent in 2005 following the release of
the first of five films, “Samantha: An American Girl Holiday.”
While the growth has since slowed, sales rose during the
recession, climbing 7.3 percent between 2007 and 2009.  Mattel climbed 40 cents to $22.73 at 4 p.m. New York time
on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The shares have climbed 14 percent
this year, compared with a 5.8 percent increase in the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index.  Valerie Fallon is an American Girl buyer of long standing.
Over the past nine years, the mother of three from Newtown,
Connecticut, has purchased a salon chair, hair brushes, a horse
and an equestrian set for her three girls, as well as a matching
soccer kit for doll and child.  Fallon’s youngest daughter, Kiersten, celebrated her 8th
birthday at American Girl’s New York City store with cookies and
cupcakes on Oct. 8. Each year, Fallon says, she spends “a
couple of hundred dollars” on American Girl products.  Bring on the competition, Julie Parks, American Girl’s
director of public relations, said in a phone interview.  “We’re really proud to have created this 18-inch doll
genre,” she said. “We feel we have a great product line for
2010. Our content has evolved into entertainment and theater,
and that has been our point of difference from the outset.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian Thomson  in New York at 
 ithomson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 Rajello@bloomberg.net  