-- Australian, N.Z. Dollars Strengthen After Geithner Comments on Currencies
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2010-10-22T19:16:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/australian-dollar-set-to-end-nine-week-gain-before-g-20-meets-in-gyeongju.html
Australia’s dollar rose after U.S.
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said nations with
persistent trade surpluses should use tools including currencies
to reduce those imbalances.  New Zealand’s dollar also gained as Japan’s finance
minister said there was “no clear outlook” on whether exchange
rates will be mentioned in tomorrow’s Group of 20 statement,
easing speculation the document would help push up the
greenback. Both South Pacific currencies still had weekly losses
on speculation China will announce further measures to slow
growth after the nation unexpectedly raised interest rates this
week.  “What Geithner is after is a weaker dollar and stronger
Asian currencies and as the main outlet for dollar weakness
we’ve seen euro rising,” said  Joseph Capurso , a currency
strategist in Sydney at Commonwealth Bank of Australia, the
nation’s largest lender. “Those comments have also pushed
Aussie through 98 U.S. cents.”  Australia’s currency rose to 98.06 U.S. cents at 3:12 p.m.
in New York from 97.72 cents yesterday, paring this week’s
decline to 1 percent. The currency gained 0.4 percent to 79.83
yen. New Zealand’s dollar advanced 0.2 percent to 74.71 cents,
and rose 0.3 percent to 60.82 yen.  Officials “should commit to undertake policies consistent
with reducing external imbalances below a specified share of GDP
over the next few years.” Geithner said in a letter to his G-20
counterparts as the meeting started in Gyeongju, South Korea.  G-20 ‘Divide’  Japan’s Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said it’s still
unclear if or how currencies will be mentioned in the G-20
statement. Member nations must avoid a downward “spiral” of
competitive devaluations of their currencies, European Union
Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said today,
speaking in Gyeongju.  The G-20 encompasses Japan, the U.S., Canada, the U.K.,
Germany, Italy and France and the biggest emerging economies,
including Russia, India, Brazil, and China.  “The informal comments that we’ve had from the sidelines
so far highlight a divide that suggests there’s limited prospect
of anything meaningful coming out of the communiqué,” said  Sue Trinh , a senior currency strategist in Hong Kong at Royal Bank
of Canada. “Until we get clarification from the Federal Reserve
at its meeting in November, it’s unlikely that the U.S. dollar’s
fortunes are going to turn around in a material manner.”  Fed Purchases  The Australian and New Zealand dollar have rallied this
month amid speculation the Fed will increase Treasury purchases
in so-called quantitative easing as soon as its Nov. 2-3
meeting, helping debase the greenback.  Australia’s currency is unlikely to climb above $1 going
into the G-20, Trinh said. The currency rose to $1.0004 on Oct.
15, the strongest since exchange control were removed in 1983.  The so-called Aussie also advanced after the Bureau of
Statistics said its export price index rose more than economists
forecast in the third quarter.  The Australian dollar still had its first weekly drop since
August after China’s central bank this week raised its lending
and deposit rates.  The People’s Bank of China increased its benchmark one-year
lending by a quarter of a percentage point on Oct. 19 to 5.56
percent and the deposit rate by the same amount, to 2.5 percent.
China is Australia’s largest trading partner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  