-- Australia Has Room to Raise Debt for Projects, Colonial's Halmarick Says
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2010-10-21T04:24:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/australia-has-room-to-raise-debt-for-projects-colonial-s-halmarick-says.html
Australia’s federal and state
governments have the capacity to increase debt levels to fund
infrastructure projects, according to  Colonial First State , the
fund management arm of  Commonwealth Bank of Australia .  Increasing Australian government debt by more than A$220
billion ($217 billion) by June 2014 would keep debt at an
internationally-low 30 percent of gross domestic product,
according to research led by  Stephen Halmarick , head of
investment markets research at Colonial, which oversees about
$135 billion.  “The increase in government debt would be unlikely to have
a negative impact on Australian interest rates or ‘crowd out’
the private sector, while the positive benefits to the economy
from a ramp up in infrastructure could be substantial,”
Halmarick wrote in a report.  Australia’s net government debt is expected to peak at A$90
billion, or 6 percent of GDP, in the financial year ending 2013,
compared with an average high of 90 percent among members of the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, Halmarick
said. Adding state government debt takes the figure to A$250
billion in 2014, from A$133 billion in June, he said.  Australia, which is experiencing the biggest mining boom in
more than a century and expects its population to expand to
about 36 million by 2056, needs better infrastructure to
transport goods, services, capital and labor to meet ongoing
demand, Halmarick said. A priority  list  for this year released
by  Infrastructure Australia , the government’s advisory body, in
June identified about A$83 billion of projects, in addition to
the A$43 billion  national broadband network .  Lost Productivity  Australia must  spend  more than A$770 billion until 2017 on
services to support its economy, about half of which must come
from government sources, Citigroup said in June 2008. Without
this expenditure, the world’s 13th-largest economy is expected
to lose some A$7.8 billion in productivity by 2020 from traffic
congestion alone, industry group Infrastructure Partnerships
Australia estimates.  To meet the shortfall between the funding needed and
government spending, private investors must step in, Halmarick
said.  Australian pension funds, which are expected to raise their
infrastructure allocation to 15 percent by 2020 from the current
5 percent, boosting funds available to A$240 billion, can be a
major player in bridging the gap, Michael Carapiet, group head
of Macquarie Capital, said at a conference in Melbourne in
August.  International pension funds too can be a source of
financing, Infrastructure Partnerships said in a  report  in April
on the funds’ contributions to projects. The Canadian Pension
Plan Investment Board acquired Sydney-based  Intoll Group  for
A$3.44 billion on Aug. 27, after failing in its efforts to buy
 Transurban Group , Australia’s biggest toll-road operator.  International Funds  Japanese private pensions, which oversee more than 60
trillion yen, are starting to invest in toll roads, ports and
pipelines for the first time as they seek higher returns to meet
the retirement needs of the world’s fastest-aging population.
For pension and sovereign wealth funds, which are on the lookout
for investments that deliver steady returns to meet future
payouts, infrastructure assets fit the bill.  International lenders are also seeking out Australian
infrastructure assets that are built by private companies in
partnership with the government,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc’ s head of infrastructure advisory Geoff Daley said in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nichola Saminather  in Sydney at 
 Nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  