-- Baidu Profit Beats Estimates as Google Slips in China
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2010-10-21T21:30:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/baidu-profit-doubles-beating-estimates-as-google-s-engine-slips-in-china.html
Baidu Inc. , owner of China’s biggest
search engine, reported third quarter profit more than doubled,
beating analysts’ estimates, after the company grabbed business
as  Google Inc.  overhauled its local operations.  Net income climbed to 1.05 billion yuan ($156.4 million),
or 3 yuan per American depositary receipt, compared with 492.9
million yuan, or 1.41 yuan, a year earlier, Baidu said today in
a statement. That exceeded the 959 million yuan average of 11
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales increased 76
percent to 2.26 billion yuan.  Chairman  Robin Li  is upgrading technology to help Baidu
hang on to share gains after Google closed its Chinese site this
year to avoid censorship rules in the world’s biggest Internet
market. The Beijing-based company, whose stock has  more than
doubled  this year, last month started selling content including
books as part of its “box computing” service to expand revenue
beyond search.  “We believe box computing will indeed further strengthen
Baidu’s market position in China,” Citigroup Inc. analyst
 Alicia Yap  wrote in an Oct. 5 report. The technology will
“increase revenue opportunities for Baidu,” Yap wrote.  Baidu ADRs rose 2.5 percent in Nasdaq Stock Market trading
before the earnings announcement. The stock has outperformed
online rivals in China including  Tencent Holdings Ltd. , the
country’s biggest Internet company by market value, and
 Alibaba.com Ltd. , the leading local e-commerce operator.  Fourth-Quarter Outlook  Revenue is expected to rise to 2.37 billion yuan to 2.44
billion yuan in the fourth-quarter, Baidu said. That compares
with the 2.34 billion-yuan average of analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  The adoption of Baidu’s Phoenix Nest advertising system
boosted the company’s sales, Li said in an interview in August.
In December, Baidu introduced Phoenix Nest, a program designed
to increase sales of online-search keywords to clients.  New applications such as e-books offered as part of the
“box computing” platform will “eventually translate into
financial benefits,” Baidu Chief Financial Officer  Jennifer Li 
said last month.  Baidu  accounted for 72.8 percent of China’s search-engine
market by revenue in the third-quarter, rising from 71 percent
in the previous three months, according to research company
iResearch. Google’s share dropped to 24.6 percent from 26.8
percent, iResearch said.  Google had been losing market share to Baidu since January,
when the owner of the world’s most-popular search engine said it
was no longer willing to comply with Chinese government
requirements for websites to self-censor content.  Google’s Shift  The U.S. company in March shut its Chinese search service
and redirected local users to its unfiltered Hong Kong site.  The change led to a shift in advertising spending to Baidu
from Google, James Hawkins, managing director at DGM Asia, which
buys advertising from Chinese Internet companies, said this
month.  In July, China renewed Google’s Internet license after the
Mountain View, California-based company changed the arrangement
used to point Internet traffic to the Hong Kong site. A month
earlier, Google stopped automatically redirecting users to the
Hong Kong site and put in place a so-called landing page that
requires users to opt for the alternative service.  China had an estimated 420 million Internet users at the
end of June, an increase of 36 million from six months earlier,
according to data from the government-sponsored China Internet
Network Information Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  