-- Banks in EU May Be Pushed to Hold Extra Capital in Credit Booms
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2010-10-21T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/banks-in-eu-may-be-pushed-to-go-beyond-basel-requirements-in-credit-booms.html
Banks may be pushed by the European
Union to hoard extra capital buffers beyond minimum requirements
proposed by global requlators last month.  Lenders may be expected to hold the extra capital during
boom times in a bid to prevent another financial crisis, said
 Chantal Hughes , a spokeswoman for EU Financial Services
Commissioner  Michel Barnier . Banks may be banned from paying
dividends and bonuses if they fail to meet the targets to stem
the flow of cheap money, under plans to be published today.  “A vital lesson from the financial crisis is that banks
must hold sufficient levels of capital,” said Hughes. The
European Commission will seek views on the  proposals  for banks
in the 27-nation EU, she said.  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision gave regulators
the option of introducing an additional capital buffer to curb
the excessive lending that led to the financial crisis. The
buffer would also help lenders absorb losses in a recession. The
Basel proposals are the strictest since nations began regulating
the global banking system together in 1974.  The  European Banking Federation , an industry lobby group,
said it’s already signaled its “serious concerns at the
imposition of yet another layer of buffers” to the Basel
committee. “New European measures would only make the matter
worse,” it said in an e-mailed statement.  The Basel group agreed that the so-called  countercyclical
capital buffer  could be as large as 2.5 percent of bank’s
assets, and that it should be made up of common equity “or
other fully loss absorbing capital.”  “The commission is acutely aware of the need to ensure
that capital rules are well thought through, that is why we are
having this consultation,” Hughes said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Brunsden  in Brusselst .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 