-- Banks Clueless About Foreclosure Mess Severity: Jonathan Weil
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2010-10-21T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/banks-clueless-on-foreclosure-mess-severity-commentary-by-jonathan-weil.html
The biggest U.S. mortgage lenders
and servicers say they’re putting the  foreclosure  mess behind
them, and that it never was a major problem. The reality is
these companies are so big and unmanageable, the people in
charge of running them have no way to know if that is true.  One thing that remains unknowable is how many flawed home-
mortgage records and foreclosure proceedings are out there
waiting to be unearthed. Dozens of federal and state agencies
are investigating. It’s anyone’s guess what they might turn up.  The industry’s self-exonerations keep pouring out anyway.
“We believe the integrity of Citi’s foreclosure process is
sound,” Citigroup’s chief financial officer,  John Gerspach ,
said Oct. 18 on a conference call with investors. While
Citigroup uses outside lawyers to prepare foreclosure documents,
he said, “each package is reviewed by a Citi employee, who
verifies the information and signs the foreclosure affidavit in
the presence of a notary.”  That’s not what happened in the case of a Port Charlotte,
Florida, husband and wife, Peter and Cheryl Hesser. Citigroup
sued the Hessers in January 2008, seeking to foreclose on their
home mortgage. In February 2009 the bank filed a motion for
summary judgment in the case. The affidavit it filed in support
of that motion wasn’t signed by a Citigroup employee, however.  Room for Doubt  Rather, the signature was from someone named Cheryl Samons,
an operations manager at one of Citigroup’s outside law firms,
the Law Offices of  David J. Stern  PA in Plantation, Florida.
There’s reason to wonder if Samons knew what she was signing
when she swore she had personal knowledge about the Hessers’
mortgage and the amount of money they owed.  Three months after that affidavit, in a  deposition  for a
separate lawsuit, Samons testified that she spent two hours a
day executing affidavits and other records. She said she spent
“very little” time examining each document before signing
them. Asked if she signed more than 100 a day, Samons said yes.
She declined to provide her own estimate. “It’s definitely not
more than a million,” she told the lawyer deposing her.  It’s not clear who owns the Hessers’ loan. In its
complaint, Citigroup said it was acting as the servicer for the
mortgage’s owner, and that the mortgage had been lost. In her
February 2009 affidavit, Samons said Citigroup owned the
Hessers’ mortgage.  ‘Successfully Villainized’  As recently as Oct. 4, a Stern attorney representing
Citigroup at a court hearing said the bank was still relying on
Samons’ affidavit, and that it had found the Hessers’ original
mortgage. The court has yet to rule on the bank’s motion.  Samons didn’t return phone calls. Asked last week about her
work, a lawyer representing Stern’s firm,  Jeffrey Tew  of Tew
Cardenas LLP in Miami, said, “She was signing affidavits and
doing it appropriately.” He added: “I don’t think there’s any
evidence that she’s done anything improper.” Tew told a
Bloomberg News reporter this week that “David and foreclosure
lawyers are foreclosing legitimate mortgages that are in
default,” and yet “they have been successfully villainized.”  Stern’s firm is one of at least  four  law firms under
 investigation  by the Florida attorney general’s office over its
foreclosure work in the state. The inquiry is separate from the
joint investigation divulged last week by attorneys general for
all 50 states. As recently as June, Stern’s firm claimed it had
20 percent of the market share in Florida for residential
foreclosures.  Forgeries, Backdating  In a  deposition  taken this month as part of the Florida
attorney general’s investigation, a former assistant to Samons,
Kelly Scott, said Samons signed about 1,000 documents a day. A
former paralegal at Stern’s firm, Tammie Lou Kapusta, told
lawyers for the attorney general’s office in a Sept. 22
deposition that employees repeatedly signed affidavits without
reviewing them, forged signatures, and improperly notarized and
backdated documents.  Citigroup says it has stopped sending new cases to the
Stern firm. A spokesman for the bank,  Mark Rodgers , declined to
comment on Citigroup’s lawsuit against the Hessers. Before last
year, he said, Citigroup had authorized certain law firms to
sign documents on its behalf. He said the policy changed in
2009, and that all foreclosure affidavits now must be executed
by Citigroup employees.  Widespread Trouble  In addition to Citigroup, Stern’s clients include Bank of
America Corp., Wells Fargo & Co., GMAC Mortgage and six other
major servicers and lenders. That’s according to a prospectus
that a publicly traded  affiliate  of the Stern firm,  DJSP
Enterprises Inc. , filed with securities regulators in June. If
Stern’s foreclosure procedures present a potential problem for
Citigroup, it stands to reason that they might spell trouble for
those companies, too.  Bank of America, for instance, this week  said  it would re-
open about 102,000 foreclosure actions in 23 states, after
concluding that “the basis for our foreclosure decisions is
accurate.” The bank released that statement 10 days after it
said it would  halt  foreclosure sales nationwide, pending a
review of its procedures. It’s hard to believe a review
completed so quickly could have been very thorough.  The banks have only themselves to blame for the fix they’re
in. Three years ago, as the subprime mortgage crisis began to
spiral, one of the lessons the public should have learned is
that the leaders of these companies often have no idea what’s
going on inside them. We may be witnessing the same phenomenon
again. There’s no excuse this time for anyone to be surprised.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  