-- Banks Face Two-Front War on Bad Mortgages, Foreclosures
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n   a n d   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2010-10-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/banks-face-two-front-war-on-bad-u-s-mortgages-flawed-foreclosure-process.html
Shoddy  mortgage  lending has led
bankers into a two-front war, pitting them against U.S.
homeowners challenging the right to foreclose and mortgage-bond
investors demanding refunds that could approach $200 billion.  While federal regulators and state attorneys general have
focused on flawed foreclosures, a bigger threat may be the cost
to buy back faulty loans that banks bundled into securities.
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. , Bank of America Corp., Wells Fargo & Co.
and Citigroup Inc. have set aside just $10 billion in reserves
to cover future buybacks. Bank of America alone  said  this week
that pending claims jumped 71 percent from a year ago to $12.9
billion of loans.  Investors such as  Bill Gross ’s Pacific Investment
Management Co. contend that sellers are obligated to repurchase
some mortgages because of misrepresentations such as
overstatements of borrowers’ income or inflated appraisals.
Their case may be bolstered by probes in 50 states into whether
banks used documents that were also flawed to conduct
foreclosures. Neither dispute is likely to be resolved quickly.  “It’s going to be trench warfare with years of
lawyering,”  Christopher Whalen , managing director of
Institutional Risk Analytics, said in a telephone interview from
White Plains, New York. “The banks can’t afford to lose.”  The biggest risks for banks may be loans packaged into
mortgage-backed securities during the housing bubble, of which
$1.3 trillion remain. The aggrieved bondholders include
government-controlled firms Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, bond
insurers and private investors.  Fannie, Freddie  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac, the largest mortgage-finance
companies, may be owed as much as $42 billion just on loans they
bought directly from lenders, according to Fitch Ratings. On top
of that, investors in private mortgage bonds, including them,
may collect as much as $179.2 billion,  Christopher Gamaitoni ,
vice president of research at Compass Point Research & Trading
LLC in Washington, said in an August report. That brings the
total to more than $220 billion.  Pimco, BlackRock Inc., MetLife Inc. and the Federal Reserve
Bank of New York are seeking to force Bank of America to
repurchase mortgages packaged into $47 billion of bonds by its
Countrywide Financial Corp. unit. In a  letter  to the bank, the
group cited alleged failures by Countrywide to service the loans
properly.  “It enhances the likelihood of claims coming to
fruition,” said Gamaitoni, a former senior financial analyst at
Fannie Mae.  Repurchase Obligations  Bank of America, which acquired Countrywide, the biggest
U.S. mortgage lender, in 2008, faces potential repurchase
obligations of $74 billion, according to an August  report  by
Branch Hill Capital, a San Francisco hedge fund, which is
betting against the Charlotte, North Carolina-based company’s
 shares . Potential claims consist of $21.8 billion to Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac, $45 billion for investors in mortgage bonds and
$7.2 billion for insurance companies, Branch Hill said.  Bank of America has $4.4 billion in reserves for claims on
$12.9 billion of loans, the company reported Oct. 19, and has
already resolved claims on more than $14 billion of loans.  The company will “defend our shareholders” by disputing
any unjustified demands that it repurchase mortgages, Chief
Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television. Most claims “don’t have the defects that
people allege.”  JPMorgan took a $1 billion third-quarter expense to
increase its mortgage-repurchase reserves to about $3 billion.
Citigroup raised its reserves to $952 million in the third
quarter, from $727 million in the previous period. Wells Fargo
reduced its repurchase reserves to $1.3 billion, from $1.4
billion in the second quarter.  ‘Overstated’ Issues  “These issues have been somewhat overstated and to a
certain extent, misrepresented in the marketplace,” Wells Fargo
Chief Financial Officer  Howard Atkins  said yesterday on the
bank’s third-quarter  earnings call . “Our experience continues
to be different than some of our peers in that our unresolved
repurchase demands outstanding are actually down.”  So far, most lenders have resisted large-scale settlements,
agreeing only to paybacks after defects are discovered in
individual loans. Investors have in some cases been stymied in
their efforts to examine individual loan files by mortgage-bond
trustees, which administer the securities.  In July, the Federal Housing Finance Agency, the government
conservator of Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac , issued 64 subpoenas
demanding loan files to assess the possibility of breaches in
representations and warranties by securities issuers.  Plaintiff Claims  The most common issues with the mortgages bundled into
securities were borrowers who didn’t occupy the homes and
inflated appraisals that distorted the loan-to-value ratio,
according to lawsuits filed by the Federal Home Loan Banks in
Seattle and San Francisco. A sampling of 6,533 loans in 12
securitizations by Countrywide found 97 percent failed to
conform to underwriting guidelines, according to a lawsuit filed
Sept. 29 by Ambac Assurance Corp. in New York state Supreme
Court.  Richard M. Bowen , former chief underwriter for  Citigroup ’s
consumer-lending group, said he warned his superiors of concerns
that some types of loans in securities didn’t conform with
representations and warranties in 2006 and 2007.  “In mid-2006, I discovered that over 60 percent of these
mortgages purchased and sold were defective,” Bowen testified
on April 7 before the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission
created by Congress. “Defective mortgages increased during 2007
to over 80 percent of production.”  Analysts’ Estimates  Some analysts say that the losses will be manageable by the
banks. Last week,  Mike Mayo , an analyst at Credit Agricole
Securities USA in New York, estimated a cost of $20 billion for
repurchases. Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s  Richard Ramsden  said a
worst-case scenario would be $84 billion.  U.S. Representative  Brad Miller , a North Carolina Democrat
on the House Financial Services Committee, says he asked
Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  in a recent hearing whether
the government included mortgage-repurchase losses in the so-
called stress tests of banks conducted last year, because he was
expects that they will be growing. Geithner couldn’t immediately
answer, and Miller assumes they weren’t.  “It appears the banks have contractually promised the
mortgages met specific requirements, and also it certainly
appears not all of them did,” Miller said. “In all likelihood
a great many of them didn’t.”  The other front in the battle is the potential cost to
banks of improper documentation used in  foreclosures . Attorneys
general in all 50 states are jointly investigating foreclosure
procedures, including the use of so-called robo-signers who
didn’t check the material they were signing. Litigation costs
for such cases may reach $4 billion, while a three-month delay
in foreclosures would add an additional $6 billion to industry
expenses, FBR Capital Markets estimated in an Oct. 19 report.  Document Errors  Foreclosure document errors also can be used to push for
repurchases.  The total amount of loans that the four biggest banks may
need to buy back because of flawed paperwork could be “on the
order of” about $25 billion, said  Paul Jablansky , a senior debt
strategist at Stamford, Connecticut-based RBS Securities Inc.
With these demands to investigate breaches of contracts, “it’s
relatively objective, the loan files are either complete or not,
and the missing files are either material and adverse, or not.”  To settle disputes with homeowners about attempts to
foreclose, banks may offer borrowers more generous loan
modifications, potentially including principal reductions, said
 Frank Pallotta , managing partner of Loan Value Group, a
mortgage-consulting firm in Rumson, New Jersey.  ‘Going to Cost Them’  “The potential for owners to challenge lenders on
foreclosure improprieties certainly is there,” Pallotta said.
“Even if it turns out that the banks were right in 99 percent
of these foreclosures, the additional diligence on their part,
going forward, is going to cost them more money.”  The litigation over buybacks, also known as putbacks, can
also pit big banks against each other. Last month, Deutsche Bank
AG, acting as a trustee, refiled a lawsuit over misrepresented
mortgages in $34 billion of Washington Mutual Inc. mortgage
securities, with $165 billion in original balances.  The new suit in the U.S. District Court for the District of
Columbia included JPMorgan as a defendant, after the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. said that JPMorgan was wrongly claiming
its insurance fund had agreed to cover the liabilities,
according to the amended complaint.  JPMorgan Balks  JPMorgan, which bought most of WaMu after it failed in
2008, is balking at turning over loan files to the trustee,
according to the suit. “Based on the limited information
available to” Deutsche Bank, including evidence of WaMu’s
shoddy practices found in internal documents released in a
Senate investigation, either JPMorgan or the FDIC owes investors
$6 billion to $10 billion, according to the complaint.  About 26 percent of mortgages underlying securities without
government backing are at least 60 days late, in foreclosure
proceedings or already backed by seized homes, according to  data
compiled by Bloomberg . Typical prices for the most-senior bonds
tied to so-called Alt-A mortgages, whose borrowers often failed
to document their pay or plan to live in properties, fell to as
low as 33 cents on the dollar in March 2009, before rallying to
64 cents last week, according to Barclays Capital Inc. data.  Like WaMu, many lenders that originated the mortgages have
gone out of business, making litigation more complex, said  Kurt Eggert , professor of law at Chapman University in Orange,
California. And top executives at the surviving companies, such
as the CEOs of Bank of America and Citigroup, have been
replaced.  “It’s troubling that the people who caused the problem
have walked away and left everybody else to fight over who gets
stuck with the tab,” Eggert said in a telephone interview.
“It’s like a massive game of dine and dash.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Gittelsohn  in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net ;
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
2380 or  jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 