-- Barnes & Noble Loses Bid to Dismiss Case Over Deal With Founder Riggio
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2010-10-21T21:05:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/barnes-noble-loses-bid-to-dismiss-case-over-purchase-of-unit-from-riggio.html
Barnes & Noble Inc.  lost a bid to
dismiss an investor lawsuit claiming some directors violated
their duties in the $596 million buyout of a college bookstore
chain from the retailer’s founder,  Leonard Riggio .  Barnes & Noble, the largest U.S. bookstore chain, was sued
in August 2009 in Delaware Chancery Court by the Louisiana
Municipal Police Employees Retirement System, which claimed the
payment for Barnes & Noble College Booksellers Inc. was “well
beyond” a fair price, and that some board members were
conflicted by long-term friendships with Riggio. The founder,
with about a 30 percent stake in the company, “used his
influence” to facilitate the buyout, the retirement system
claimed.  The process “gives off a very fishy smell,” Judge  Leo Strine Jr.  said at a hearing today in Wilmington, where he
refused to dismiss the case, paving the way for more proceedings
and an eventual trial.  Mary Ellen Keating , a Barnes & Noble spokeswoman, didn’t
immediately return a voice-mail message seeking comment on the
ruling.  Riggio is likely to buy Barnes & Noble itself after
shareholders re-elected him to the board last month, according
to  Louis Meyer , an analyst for Oscar Gruss & Son Inc., which
estimated the takeover price at $18 a share.  Riggio agreed to get board approval before joining a group
to make a bid, and said he would make sure it would be bought by
the highest bidder, according to a  regulatory filing  yesterday.  Barnes & Noble, based in New York, rose 7 cents to $15.03
at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  The case is Louisiana Municipal Police Employees Retirement
System v. Leonard Riggio, CA4813, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Phil Milford  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  