-- BBVA Is in Talks to Acquire Stake in Turkey's Garanti Bank
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2010-10-21T10:33:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/bbva-in-talks-to-buy-garanti-stake.html
Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria  SA,
Spain’s second-biggest lender, is in talks to buy a stake in
Turkiye  Garanti  Bankasi AS, the Turkish bank partly owned by
General Electric Co.  “No assurance can be given that any transaction will be
announced or undertaken,” the Bilbao, Spain-based bank said in
a filing to regulators today. GE has said it plans to sell its
21 percent stake in Garanti, Turkey’s second-biggest bank with a
market value of 36.5 billion liras ($25.6 billion).  BBVA is seeking to reduce its reliance on Spain, which
accounts for about half of its profit compared with 22 percent
at larger rival  Banco Santander  SA, as the economy struggles to
emerge from its worst recession in 60 years. The bank has made
investments in China and spent $9 billion in 2007 on acquiring
Compass Bancshares Inc. in the U.S.  “It looks like a positive step that BBVA has made this
announcement,” said  Funda Afacan , an analyst at BGC Partners
Inc. in Istanbul, who rates Garanti “hold.” “There is very
strong growth potential in the Turkish banking market and
Garanti is the leading company in many products.”  BBVA fell 1.4 percent to 9.85 euros at 11:43 a.m. in Madrid
trading, cutting the bank’s market value to 36.9 billion euros
($51.8 billion). Garanti rose 0.6 percent to 8.70 liras.  Turkish Growth  Turkey gives BBVA a chance to grow in a market where
mortgage loans represent only about 4 percent of gross domestic
product, said Afacan. Spanish mortgage loans equate to about 100
percent of GDP after a decade-long property boom, according to
data from the  Bank of Spain .  Spain, whose economy may shrink 0.3 percent this year after
contracting 3.7 percent in 2009, according to International
Monetary Fund estimates, still accounts for about 60 percent of
BBVA’s loan book. BBVA already relies on high-growth Latin
American markets, including Mexico, for about half of its
profit.  BBVA closed the  second quarter  with a core capital ratio, a
measure of the bank’s ability to absorb losses, of 8.1 percent
and Tier 1 capital of 9.2 percent. The purchase of the Garanti
stake may shave 120 basis points off BBVA’s core capital,
leaving it with a ratio of about 7.8 percent at the end of the
year, taking into account its ability to generate capital from
retained earnings, said  Simon Maughan , an analyst at MF Global
in London.  Numbers Game  “Turkey is a story about demographics, growth and low
penetration of banking products,” said Maughan in a phone
interview. “There’s no question about Turkey being an
attractive market but it’s more about the timing of this
potential deal at a time when investors are so focused on
capital.”  Turkey has emerged from the global financial crisis with
economic growth exceeding 10 percent in the first two quarters
of this year. Healthy household and bank balance sheets may help
the economy grow 7.8 percent this year, the IMF said Oct. 6.  BBVA could sell some of its stake in  Telefonica SA  to
finance any purchase instead of raising capital with a share
sale, said Maughan.  Telefonica shares fell as much as 1.7 percent in Madrid.
BBVA owns 5.5 percent of Europe’s second-biggest phone company,
according to Bloomberg data.  There are also questions over whether Dogus Group, GE’s
partner in Garanti, would allow BBVA to increase its stake to
have a greater say in management and what premium it would
charge for that, BGC Partners’ Afacan said.  Dogus is active in the energy business and also owns Dogus
Otomotiv Servis & Ticaret AS, a distributor of Volkswagen AG
cars in Turkey.  Garanti had assets of 116.3 billion liras at the end of
2009 and loans of 55.8 billion liras, according to Bloomberg
data.  GE aims to reduce its net investment in finance assets to
$440 billion by the end of 2012 from about $516 billion at the
end of the first quarter, according to  Michael Neal , GE
Capital’s chief executive officer.  BBVA said it made the announcement at the request of
Spain’s market regulator.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles Penty at   cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  