-- BHP May Sell South African Coal Unit After Potash Deal, Deutsche Bank Says
-- B y   R e b e c c a   K e e n a n   a n d   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 2010-10-22T11:16:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/bhp-could-sell-assets-after-potash-deal-deutsche-bank-says.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. , the largest mine
operator, may sell as much as $33 billion of coal and aluminum
assets in South Africa, the U.S. and Canada, if a bid for Potash
Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. succeeds, Deutsche Bank AG said.  “The sale of smaller assets would simplify the group’s
asset portfolio once more, and allow management to focus their
energies on core divisions,”  Paul Young , an analyst at Deutsche
Bank, wrote yesterday in a research report.  The assets may include aluminum, coal and mineral sands
resources in South Africa, leaving only the company’s manganese
operations in the country, according to the report. BHP may also
sell its two U.S. coal mines, its Nickel West unit, the Ekati
diamond mines in Canada and Potash Corp.’s nitrogen and
phosphate assets, Deutsche Bank said. That would cut debt to
below $10 billion and improve the group’s  earnings -before-
interest-and-tax margin by as much as 7 percent, it said.  With 30 million metric tons of annual output, BHP is one of
the largest producers and exporters of thermal coal in South
Africa, where the ruling African National Congress has been
debating the possibility of mine nationalization. The company
owns the Hillside and Bayside smelters in Richards Bay on the
east coast and has a 37 percent interest in nearby Richards Bay
Minerals Ltd., a titanium venture with Rio Tinto Group.  BHP has offered $40 billion in cash, or $130 a share, to
buy  Potash Corp. , which rejected the offer. Ruban Yogarajah, a
London-based BHP spokesman, declined to comment on the report.  The company agreed this year to a review of power-supply
prices charged by South Africa’s Eskom Holdings Ltd. to its
aluminum smelters as losses by the state-run utility threaten
supplies in the region. A new accord “may involve BHP Billiton
assuming responsibility for the commodity pricing and currency-
exchange risks related to the contracts,” BHP said in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Keenan  in Melbourne at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net 
 Carli Lourens  in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net 
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 