-- BHP's Kloppers Says Potash Bid Focuses on Canadian Regulatory Approvals
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2010-10-21T16:00:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/bhp-ceo-says-potash-bid-focuses-on-canadian-regulatory-approvals.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. , the world’s
biggest mining company, will focus on gaining approval from
Canada’s federal government for a hostile $40 billion bid for
 Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.  after provincial officials
expressed doubt about the takeover benefits.  “We have every intention, every track record, to fulfill
the net benefit test and we are going to continue to work at
that,” Chief Executive Officer  Marius Kloppers  told reporters
today in London after the company’s annual general meeting.
“There is still some time to unroll on that process and the
team is basically working on clearing basically the sole pre-
condition for our bid that lies in the road ahead of them.”  Potash Corp., the biggest producer of the soil fertilizer,
rejected the offer from BHP, which faces growing “political
headwinds” in Canada, according to Nomura Holdings Inc.
Saskatchewan Premier  Brad Wall , who said yesterday the proposal
isn’t beneficial to his region or to Canada, will set out the
province’s position at about 2:30 p.m. New York time today. The
central government has until Nov. 3 to decide on the deal, which
can be blocked if it’s found not to provide a net benefit.  Buying Potash Corp. would propel BHP to the top of the
league of producers of the mineral as demand increases and as an
expanding world population consumes more food. If the bid is
blocked, it will be the third failure to close a deal since
Kloppers took up his role in 2007. BHP may raise its offer to
about $150 a share from $130 to win Potash Corp.,  Paul Cliff , a
London-based analyst at Nomura, wrote in a report yesterday.  ‘Question of Value’  “The question of value for BHP Billiton shareholders is
essential and not negotiable,” Melbourne-based BHP’s Chairman
 Jac Nasser  told investors today. “Any acquisition or investment
must create value. If shareholder value is not demonstrated, we
will not proceed with the proposed acquisition.”  Potash fell 0.3 percent to C$145.51 by 11:30 a.m. in
Toronto trading. BHP rose 1 percent to 2,215 pence by the 4:30
p.m. close in London.  Wall yesterday cited forecasts showing the deal would cut
revenue for the province. The Saskatchewan cabinet was due to
decide yesterday how to advise the central government on the
offer, he told reporters in Regina, the provincial capital.  Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s governing Conservatives
will approve the hostile bid, while attaching a “poison pill”
condition on the transaction, CTV News reported last night,
without saying how it obtained the information.  ‘American-Controlled’  “This is a proposal for an American-controlled company to
be taken over by an Australian-controlled company,”  Harper  said
in response to a question in the House of Commons yesterday.  No decision on the transaction has been made by the federal
government, Lynn Meahan, a spokeswoman for Industry Minister
 Tony Clement , said in a telephone interview today.  “The reality is that this company is majority owned by
American shareholders as I understand it,” Kloppers said today,
referring to Harper’s comments. “It is a broadly held company
so I would concur with that overall assessment. However, that
does not relieve me from the obligation to show Canada that
there is a net benefit and the obligation is on me.”  Canada has only blocked one transaction under the
 Investment Canada Act , when it stopped the proposed sale of
MacDonald Dettwiler & Associates Ltd.’s space division in 2008.  Clement  said yesterday the federal government is talking
with BHP and the province, which he described as a “key
player,” as it assesses whether to approve the company’s plans.  Talking to Wall  Wall has been talking with BHP over compensation, according
to an e-mail from a Saskatchewan official. The province rejected
an offer of C$370 million ($363 million) in infrastructure
investment because it doesn’t make up for the C$3 billion in
lost revenue over 10 years, the official said, declining to be
identified because the negotiations are private. BHP has said it
is confident it can address the province’s concerns.  “I know what my demeanor is, what my company’s track
record and experience is, of sticking to its agreements over
many decades,” Kloppers said. “My task is to convince the
Canadian regulators that indeed our trustworthiness, solidity
and so on will be cemented in these undertakings.”  Potash Corp., based in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, last week
said it’s studying alternatives to BHP’s offer amid rising
prices for agricultural commodities. Sinochem Group, China’s
largest fertilizer trader and cited by analysts as a possible
counter bidder, may struggle to get state financial backing for
a takeover, two people with knowledge of the matter said Oct. 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  