-- Billionaire Anil Agarwal's Vedanta May Get Notice Today for Violating Rule
-- B y   A b h i j i t   R o y   C h o w d h u r y   a n d   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2010-10-21T04:10:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/billionaire-anil-agarwal-s-vedanta-may-get-notice-today-for-violating-rule.html
Vedanta Resources Plc , whose plan to
mine bauxite in India was blocked by the government, may today
receive a notice from the Environment Ministry for breaching
norms at the expansion site of its alumina refinery.  “There have been serious violations,” Minister  Jairam Ramesh  said yesterday in an interview at his New Delhi office.
“There have also been some procedural violations in its
existing refinery,” he said, referring to the 1 million metric
ton facility at Lanjigarh in eastern Orissa state.  Vedanta, controlled by billionaire  Anil Agarwal , won
approval from the Orissa government on Aug. 10 to implement a
375 billion rupee ($8.5 billion) expansion of its Lanjigarh
alumina refinery. Two weeks later, the Environment Ministry said
in August Vedanta’s existing refinery may be sourcing bauxite
from mines without environmental approvals and asked Vedanta to
justify why the permit for the refinery should not be canceled.  The company has replied to the ministry, said  Mukesh Kumar ,
chief operating officer of Vedanta Aluminium Ltd., the company’s
Indian unit. A notice may be sent to the company as early as
today, Ramesh said yesterday.  Vedanta will cut its investments by as much as $2 billion
in the next two years after failing to get clearance to mine
bauxite at the Niyamgiri hills in the state, Chief Executive
Officer  Mahendra Singh Mehta  said Oct. 7. The capital
expenditure revision “will have an impact of between $1.5
billion and $2 billion,” Mehta said, clarifying the numbers
were tentative.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Abhijit Roy Chowdhury  in New Delhi at 
 achowdhury11@bloomberg.net ;
 Abhishek Shanker  in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs in Sydney at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  