-- Bob Guccione, Penthouse Magazine Founder, Dies at 79
-- B y   V i v e k   S h a n k a r   a n d   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2010-10-21T13:31:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/bob-guccione-founder-of-penthouse-magazine-dies-at-79-after-long-illness.html
Bob Guccione , who founded Penthouse
magazine and built a fortune on adult entertainment before the
rise of pornography on the Internet, died yesterday in Plano,
Texas, the Associated Press reported, citing a statement from
his family. He was 79.  Guccione died at Plano Specialty Hospital after combating
cancer, his family said.  Born in Brooklyn, New York, in 1930, Guccione started
Penthouse in the mid-1960s. By the 1980s, he had created a $300
million media business, and Penthouse, which offered more-
explicit photographs than rival Playboy, had a circulation of
4.7 million,  according to  the New York Times.  Guccione made Forbes magazine’s list of richest Americans,
with an estimated fortune of $200 million in 1984 and $300
million in 1988.  He said fears of AIDS sent more and more people to the
relative safety of adult entertainment.  “People are more fearful of casual sex today than ever
before, and voyeurism -- the means of enjoying sex vicariously -
- has become a much more prominent pastime in this country,
directly as a result of AIDS,” he told United Press
International in 1989. “So magazines, videos, books, motion
pictures, are getting a great deal of attention, more attention
than they ever got before.”  Internet Effect  Throughout the 1990s, the growing availability of
pornography on the Internet undercut Guccione’s empire, which
suffered on other fronts as well. He lost money on unsuccessful
plans to build a Penthouse casino in Atlantic City and on a
hard-core film, “Caligula.”  In 2003, Penthouse’s publisher, General Media Inc., which
was 85 percent owned by Guccione, filed for bankruptcy. The
magazine is now published by FriendFinder Networks Inc., which
runs adult websites.  Penthouse’s first issue hit newsstands in the U.K. in 1965
and went on sale in the U.S. in 1969, according to
 Biography.com . The magazine challenged the popularity of
Playboy, a men’s magazine that had gained widespread following,
by featuring photos and content that were intended to be more
explicit and provocative.  ‘Pornography as Art’  Neither Playboy nor Penthouse pushed as far as  Larry Flynt ’s Hustler magazine, however. Guccione and Playboy founder
 Hugh Hefner  “always tried to masquerade their pornography as
art and justify it by including articles that were supposed to
have had so-called ‘redeeming social value,’” Flynt wrote in
“An Unseemly Man,” his 2008  memoir . “But as transparent as
the strategy was, it worked.”  Guccione was once an altar boy in the Catholic Church who
spent several months in a seminary before dropping out,
according to Biography.com. He harbored dreams of becoming an
artist before beginning a career in media, the site says.  Penthouse sparked controversy in 1984 by publishing nude
photos of  Vanessa Williams , the first black woman crowned Miss
America. Williams relinquished the title after the issue was
released.  In 2000, the magazine ran an interview with and nude
pictures of  Paula Jones , the former Arkansas state employee who
accused President  Bill Clinton  of sexual harassment. In March
2008, Penthouse offered  Ashley Alexandra Dupre , the prostitute
who was paid $4,300 to have sex with then-New York governor
 Eliot Spitzer , the chance to pose on its Web site, host a video
chat or take part in a live Web-cam session.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Vivek Shankar  at 
 vshankar3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom in New York at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 