-- Bogdanka Management Rejects New World Resources Bid for Polish Coal Mine
-- B y   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i   a n d   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 2010-10-21T10:26:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/bogdanka-rejects-nwr-s-1-2-billion-takeover-bid-update1-.html
Lubelski Wegiel Bogdanka SA ,
Poland’s only publicly traded coal producer, rejected a 3.43
billion zloty ($1.2 billion) bid by  New World Resources NV  of
the Czech Republic, saying the price was too low.  NWR, which is looking at opportunities in Poland and
Ukraine to expand coal reserves as commodity prices recover, bid
for  Bogdanka  at 100.75 zloty per share. Bogdanka advanced 0.2
percent to 106.9 zloty at 11:33 a.m. in Warsaw, extending its
gains since the bid was announced on Oct. 5 to 20 percent.  “They want to buy us cheaply and so we recommend investors
not to sell their shares in the bid,” Bogdanka Chief Executive
Officer  Miroslaw Taras  said in Warsaw today. “When we take into
account our coal reserves and benefits from our investment
program, the price is drastically below our fair value.”  Taras declined to say what Bogdanka’s fair value was, as
estimated by the management’s adviser, Rothschild.  NWR, whose bid is starting on Oct. 25, will respond
“appropriately in due course,” spokesman  Joe Cook  said by
phone today. Its shares declined 0.8 percent to 219.3 koruna in
Prague trading, valuing the Czech company at $3.3 billion.  Shareholders  Aviva Powszechne Towarzystwo Emerytalne SA, the Polish
pension fund that’s the biggest single shareholder of Bogdanka,
with 15 percent, and Amplico Powszechne Towarzystwo Emerytalne
SA, a rival pension fund that holds 5.1 percent, said Oct. 6
that Bogdanka is worth more than NWR bid.  “The management gave in to shareholders and their price
demands,”  Jan Tomanik , an analyst at Wood & Co. in Prague,
said. “It’s unlikely NWR will succumb to the pressure and raise
the price.” Tomanik has a “hold” recommendation on the stock.  NWR’s Chief Financial Officer  Marek Jelinek  told Parkiet
newspaper Oct. 18 that his company won’t increase its bid.  Bogdanka may reconsider plans not to pay a 2010 dividend as
market conditions are better than management expected, according
to Taras. The company’s forecast for 2010 net income of 201
million zloty, as released on Sept. 30, was a “conservative”
estimate, he said.  The formerly state-owned company that went public last year
sees itself as a “consolidation center” for Poland’s coal-
mining industry, possibly financing future acquisitions with a
rights issue, Taras said, without naming any purchase targets.  Poland, which gets 90 percent of its electricity from coal,
plans to sell stakes to the public in Jastrzebska Spolka Weglowa
SA, the European Union’s largest coking coal producer, and
Katowicki Holding Weglowy SA by the end of next year, according
to the government’s asset-sale program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pawel Kozlowski  in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net ;
 Lenka Ponikelska  in Prague at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  