-- Bondholder `Immunity' to Losses Challenged as Irish Bail Banks
-- B y   S i m o n   C l a r k   a n d   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2010-10-22T10:58:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/bondholder-immunity-to-losses-challenged-as-irish-bail-banks.html
Two years after assuring senior
bondholders that they wouldn’t lose their money if banks failed,
the Irish government is making the same promise again.  This time, some bondholders are skeptical the government
will bail them out with taxpayer funds, sending down the price
of senior guaranteed debt for Anglo Irish Bank Corp. to 90 cents
on the euro, according to pricing data compiled by Bloomberg, to
account for the risk it might not be repaid in full.  Some equity investors, including  Neil Dwane , who helps
oversee about $80 billion of equities as chief investment
officer at Allianz Global Investors’ RCM unit in Frankfurt, are
angry the pledge is being made at all.  “It’s as if bondholders have diplomatic immunity from
losses,” Dwane said. “Two years into this crisis we’ve learned
nothing and done nothing. Bondholders have got to understand
that they can lose money when they invest in banks.”  The bailout habit is hard to break. Governments have poured
hundreds of billions of taxpayer dollars into European and U.S.
financial institutions since 2008 to give investors confidence
to keep buying bonds at cheap enough rates so that banks can
continue lending to support companies and households. The 201
members of Morgan Stanley Capital International’s  World Banks
Index  need investors to help refinance $3 trillion of bonds
coming due by the end of next year, Bloomberg data show.  Flawed System  “It’s very hard to wipe out the bondholders because they
are the source of funding to keep the banks going,” said  Philip Hampton , chairman of  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , whose
Edinburgh-based bank received 45.5 billion pounds ($71.5
billion) in the biggest bank bailout in the world during the
financial crisis. “That’s the critical element: How do you get
pools of private capital -- not government capital -- which can
help banks deal with a very severe crisis?”  The bailouts created a flawed financial system in which
holders of the safest, or senior bonds, don’t have enough risk
of losses, according to  William White , a former chief economist
at the Bank for International Settlements in Basel, Switzerland.  “It would have been better if they’d stuck it to the
bondholders in the first place,” said White, 67, who’s now
chairman of the economic development and review committee at the
Paris-based Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development, explaining that the government had created a moral
hazard at the expense of taxpayers. “The fundamental problem is
that there was so much concern at the time about the fragility
of the system that nobody really knew what would happen if a big
bank defaulted.”  White said he was speaking for himself, not for the OECD.  ‘Monitor the Downside’  Bond investors who have more of a risk of losing their
money will act as better assessors of banks, according to  Paul Tucker , deputy governor of the Bank of England. Regulators are
working to create such a bond market, he said.  “It will mean that debt-holders as well as equity-holders
are at risk, and debt-holders will monitor the downside when
they lend money to banks and dealers and others, rather than
taking it for granted that they will always get their money
back, because they won’t,” Tucker said at a conference in
London on Oct. 4.  Governments have been wrestling with the dilemma of whether
to use public money to bail out banks since at least the year
33, when Emperor Tiberius provided funding for failing Roman
lenders, Morgan Stanley analysts including  Carlos Egea  wrote in
an Oct. 15 note on the future of bank senior debt.  ‘Bail-In’  “It seems almost inevitable that the political climate
will force a greater debate on risk-sharing,” Egea wrote. “As
policymakers go on the record in support of burden-sharing for
bank bondholders, the prospect of a ‘bail-in’ world -- where
senior debt gets swapped for equity in banks under stress --
becomes ever more real.”  Investors in subordinated debt of Anglo Irish, the
recipient of Ireland’s biggest bailout, were yesterday asked to
exchange existing bonds for new ones with a par value 80 percent
lower. Subordinated or junior debt is repaid after senior debt
in the event of a default, making it more risky.  The Irish government may seek to extend a guarantee on bank
deposits and senior bonds after it expires on Dec. 31, two
people with knowledge of the situation said today.  “The government will continue to support the banks through
a guarantee scheme as appropriate,” Ireland’s Finance Ministry
said in an e-mailed statement.  Except in Iceland, investors in European senior bank bonds
have been paid the par value of their investments in troubled
banks, according to Morgan Stanley. Bond investors in New York-
based  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  weren’t bailed out, sending
shock waves through the global financial system after the firm
filed for bankruptcy in September 2008.  ‘Financial Collapse’  Creditors of Iceland’s  Kaupthing Bank hf , Glitnir Bank hf
and Landsbanki Islands hf are owed as much as $86 billion --more
than seven times the country’s 2009 gross domestic product --
after the lenders’ collapse brought down the economy.  The nation lost its Aaa rating from Moody’s Investors
Service in May 2008 and is now Baa3, the lowest investment
grade. Consumer prices, excluding housing, rose 41 percent from
January 2007 through September of this year, as Iceland’s krona
fell as much as 80 percent against the euro in the offshore
market. Disposable incomes slumped 20.3 percent last year, while
house prices have plunged 34 percent in Reykjavik, the capital,
since an October 2007 peak, according to the central bank.  Risk of ‘Collapse’  Irish Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said Oct. 20 that any
suggestion of defaulting on senior bank bonds would lead to
“financial collapse.” In September, Lenihan said Ireland “is
not prepared to be some kind of social experiment for bank
default” because it would affect the willingness of
international investors to buy government and bank bonds.  Two years ago, Lenihan’s decision to guarantee bond
investors and depositors in Irish banks triggered similar
assurances by governments from the U.K. to Germany, as money
flowed to Ireland.  Irish banks owed international lenders $284 billion as of
the end of March, according to the BIS, more than the country’s
2009 GDP of $227 billion.  The government has already spent 33 billion euros ($69
billion) bailing out lenders, including Anglo Irish,  Allied
Irish Banks Plc  and Irish Nationwide Building Society, after a
property boom and bust, pushing the country’s fiscal deficit to
32 percent of GDP this year. The final tally may be as much as
50 billion euros, the government said on Sept. 30.  ‘Negotiated Settlement’  “For domestic taxpayers, it’s been a disaster,” said  Joan Burton , finance spokeswoman for Ireland’s Labour Party, the
second-biggest opposition group. “What we need is a banking
resolution regime in place, where you could have a negotiated
settlement with all bondholders, including senior bondholders,
if a bank goes bust.”  The government said it wants to cut the budget deficit to 3
percent of GDP in 2014.  Dan Fuss , a bond investor who helps manage $150 billion as
vice chairman of Loomis Sayles & Co. in Boston, isn’t convinced
by the Irish guarantee that senior bondholders in Dublin-based
Anglo Irish and other lenders will be repaid. Anglo Irish was
nationalized in January 2009 after borrowing from international
investors and lending to property developers who couldn’t repay
loans when the real estate market crashed.  “The fear of the government not paying everything is why
we’re not there frankly,” Fuss said in an interview. “We
looked really hard at the Irish banks, including Anglo Irish, a
couple of weeks ago as an alternative to Irish state debt,” he
said. “The government has room to renegotiate the terms.”  Anglo Irish Notes  Anglo Irish’s 1.25 billion euros of unguaranteed senior
unsecured floating-rate notes maturing in 2012 are quoted at
about 86 cents, equivalent to a yield of 12.5 percent, according
to pricing data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with a
yield of 6.9 percent on its government-guaranteed senior bonds,
signaling investors assign a greater probability to the bank
restructuring its debt than the government doing so.  Fine Gael, Ireland’s biggest opposition party, said Oct. 8
that it would also repay Anglo Irish senior bondholders in full.
In September, the party had demanded that Finance Minister
Lenihan negotiate with bondholders.  The party doesn’t want to “risk the reputation of the
country” as a re-payer of its debt, said Fine Gael finance
spokesman  Michael Noonan .  The politicians’ view that a default would be bad for the
nation’s reputation has support in Dublin’s finance industry.  ‘Lessons’ of Lehman  “What is being bailed out is a domestic banking system,”
 Donal O’Mahony  of Dublin-based broker Davy wrote in an e-mail.
“If you fail to see that, then the lessons of the Lehman
bankruptcy have been lost on you.”  Sony Kapoor, a former Lehman banker who’s critical of how
the global banking system operates, disputes that another Irish
bailout is in the national interest.  “The battle between financial-sector investors and
taxpayers is intensifying,” said Kapoor, who advises
governments and nonprofits on regulatory policy as managing
director of Brussels-based research group Re-Define. “Those
with the weakest voices will be left carrying the can. Unborn
future taxpayers have the weakest voices of all.”  Nations pay for bailouts through inflation or increasing
debt, said RCM’s Dwane. Ireland is restricted from causing
inflation, which erodes the value of loans, because it is part
of the euro zone and can’t print its own money, he said.  ‘One Hand Behind Their Back’  “They are genuinely stuck with one hand behind their
back,” said Dwane.  The power of the bond market isn’t new.  James Carville , a
former adviser to U.S. President  Bill Clinton , said he wanted to
be reincarnated as the bond market, so he could come back and
scare everyone, after he saw how bond investors could determine
the success or failure of economic policy.  Ireland needs to change its approach to holders of bank
bonds and set a new precedent for other nations, Dwane said.  “What’s at stake is the need to finally find a solution to
the global banking crisis,” he said. “It would save taxpayers
a lot of money if bondholders are forced to convert into
equity.”  RBS’s Hampton expects the market for bank credit to change.  “There are lots of conversations going on about the
structure of future bond issues,” he said in an Oct. 4
interview. “New instruments will be created.”  Contingent Convertible Bonds  Senior bondholders’ reluctance to take losses is helping
fuel interest in contingent convertible bonds, debt that
converts to equity when there is a triggering event, such as a
decline in an issuer’s capital ratio or its stock falling to a
pre-set price.  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, which last
month announced new capital rules for banks worldwide, said on
Oct. 19 that it’s developing “a well-integrated approach to
systemically important financial institutions,” which could
include “combinations of capital surcharges, contingent capital
and bail-in debt.”  Swiss regulators seeking to ensure the nation isn’t dragged
down by the collapse of its biggest banks have proposed
requiring its two biggest lenders,  UBS AG  and  Credit Suisse
Group AG , both based in Zurich, to issue contingent convertible
bonds, or CoCos, that can be used to write off losses “at the
point of non-viability,” according to an Oct. 4 report.  The bonds, which would offer higher yields, would require
the creation of a new market. Bond investors want more
information on the events that would trigger conversion into
equity, said  Roger Doig , an analyst at Schroders Plc in London.  ‘Trigger Points’  “Investors accept that we can’t expect banks to be bailed
out by taxpayers,” Doig said. “What we want are clear trigger
points from regulators.”  The power of bond investors vexes  John McFall , a British
Labour Party lawmaker who led a Parliamentary investigation of
banks during the financial crisis.  “That issue of moral hazard is one that won’t be sorted
out in the next year or two years,” McFall said in an
interview. “It’s going to take a long time.”  It may take 25 years, according to the Bank of England’s
Tucker. Regulators worldwide want big banks to be able to fail
without taxpayer support, he said Oct. 4.  “That is an enormous goal, which over the next quarter of
a century will bring about some kind of a revolution in our
financial-services industry,” he said.  Brady Dougan  A restructured bond market also may hold the key for
reining in executives, Tucker told bankers, including RBS’s
Hampton, at the London conference. Paying bankers partly with
debt may make them more responsible, since bondholders have a
vested interest in preserving the stability of the institution.
Credit Suisse Chief Executive Officer  Brady Dougan  said
yesterday bankers may receive part of their future pay in
contingent convertible bonds.  “It is important that they have the downside as well as
the upside,” Tucker said.  RCM’s Dwane said aligning executives’ pay with investors is
crucial to reorganizing bank funding. “The whole system has
massively disadvantaged shareholders,” he said.  Economies are too fragile now to allow for bondholders to
go under, said Loomis Sayles’s Fuss.  “As a longer-term goal, you have to bring some element of
risk back,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Simon Clark  in London at 
 sclark4@bloomberg.net ;
 John Glover  in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  