-- Bondholders Bet on Black as Casino Debt Wins
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2010-10-22T15:05:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/bond-investors-bet-on-black-as-harrah-s-leads-casino-rally-credit-markets.html
Casinos are making a comeback in the
bond market as they raise equity and Las Vegas Strip gambling
revenue climbs, helping to salvage investments of buyout firms
run by  Leon Black  and  David Bonderman .  Gambling company debentures are the best-performing U.S.
high-yield, high-risk debt this month, returning 3.35 percent,
more than double the 1.6 percent gain for junk debt overall,
according to Morgan Stanley. Bonds from  Harrah’s Entertainment
Inc. , taken private for $30.7 billion in 2008 by Black’s Apollo
Management LP and Bonderman’s TPG Capital, are the best
performing of the 50 biggest debt issues in the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield Master II Index.  Bonds from casino companies, some saddled with debt from
the leveraged-buyout boom, are rallying amid confidence the U.S.
will avoid slipping back into recession. The Conference Board’s
gauge of the outlook for the economy rose for the third straight
month, signaling the recovery will extend into 2011.  “Appetite for risk has increased, especially this past
month,” said  Dennis Farrell , a casino-debt analyst with Wells
Fargo Securities LLC in Charlotte, North Carolina. “There’s not
a lot of yield in high yield right now, and in these gaming
names there are still double-digit yields.”  Las Vegas Strip gambling revenue jumped 21 percent in
August, according to Nevada’s Gaming Control Board. Harrah’s
plans an initial public offering to raise as much as $575
million for planned projects in Las Vegas and Ohio.  MGM Resorts
International  raised $511 million selling stock this month, the
biggest casino operator on the Las Vegas Strip said in a
statement.  ‘Extra Padding’  “Vegas numbers are improving,” said  Morgan Neff ,
portfolio manager and head of trading at Fort Worth, Texas-based
SMH Capital Advisors, which oversees $1.6 billion of assets
including MGM debt and secured Harrah’s bonds. “Some casinos
are doing some equity deals, diluting their holders. All that
does is give bondholders an extra padding.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own company bonds instead of similar maturity
government fell 1 basis point to 168 basis points, or 1.68
percentage point, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
Global Broad Market Corporate Index. The spread has narrowed
from this year’s high of 201 basis points on June 11 and is down
13 basis points from Aug. 31. Yields averaged 3.447 percent
yesterday, up from 3.428 percent Oct. 20.  EBay Inc. sold $1.5 billion of bonds, raising debt for the
first time to take advantage of record-low borrowing costs for
investment-grade companies. The San Jose, California-based
company’s board approved a debt sale “to capitalize on
historically low U.S. interest rates and maintain financial
flexibility,” Chief Financial Officer  Bob Swan  said in an Oct.
20 conference call with analysts.  Covered Bonds  EBay sold $400 million of 0.875 percent, 3-year notes, the
same coupon as debt sold by Microsoft Corp. last month,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The EBay bonds pay a
spread of 42 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries.  Bank of Nova Scotia sold $2.5 billion of five-year covered
bonds, raising annual U.S. dollar-denominated issuance of the
debt to the most on record, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The debt yields 57.25 basis points more than similar-
maturity Treasuries, Bloomberg data show.  Borrowers have issued $28.9 billion of U.S. dollar covered
bonds this year, surpassing the $26.6 billion in 2007, Bloomberg
data show. Covered bonds are typically backed by mortgages or
public-sector loans. The collateral underlying the debt remains
with the issuer.  Anglo Irish  Anglo Irish Bank Corp.  debt was little changed after the
nationalized lender offered to buy back or exchange $2.7 billion
of subordinated notes at a discount.  The Dublin-based bank’s subordinated floating-rate notes
due 2014 were quoted at 20 to 22 cents on the euro, from as high
as 43 cents at the beginning of September, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg. The cost of insuring Ireland’s government
bonds rose, with credit-default swaps on the nation climbing 16
basis points to 435, according to data provider CMA.  Anglo Irish offered yesterday to swap 1.6 billion euros
($2.2 billion) of floating-rate, so-called lower Tier 2 notes
due in 2014, 2016 and 2017 for new bonds at a rate of 20 cents
on the euro. Investors that don’t take up the offer will be paid
1 cent per 1,000-euro face amount to redeem the securities, the
lender said in a statement.  1 Cent  Holders of the equivalent of about 370 million euros of
Anglo Irish’s more junior securities were offered a 50-euro
consent fee to sell the notes back at 1 cent for each 1,000
euros of debt, the bank said.  Credit-default swaps on the Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Index, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
eased 0.3 basis point to a mid-price of 96.7 basis points as of
11:02 a.m. in New York, according to index administrator Markit
Group Ltd.  The index, which typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates, is declining for the
third consecutive day. The gauge touched the lowest in more than
five months Oct. 13 at 95.5 basis points.  Credit-default swaps typically fall as investor confidence
improves and rise as it deteriorates. Contracts pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a swap protecting $10 million of debt.  Relative yields on emerging-market debt rose 2 basis points
to 258, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co data. The index has
climbed 14 basis points this week.  Gaming Company Bonds  Gaming company bonds yield 10.1 percent, which is 236 basis
points more than the speculative-grade bond market, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  The debt has rallied for two straight months bringing gains
since June to 7.55 percent, the index data show. The bonds
gained 7.44 percent in the first half of the year.  Harrah’s $3.31 billion of 10 percent secured bonds due in
December 2018 rose 1.25 cents yesterday to 86 cents on the
dollar, according to Trace, Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The securities are up from a low of 72.5 cents in February
and reached 87.25 cents on Oct. 13, the highest since May.
Harrah’s bonds have returned an average of 5.34 percent this
month, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  Revenue in Las Vegas will likely increase 2 percent in 2011
and 4 percent the following year as a weaker U.S. dollar makes
the biggest U.S. casino city more attractive to foreign
customers and keeps U.S. customers from traveling abroad,
Farrell of Wells Fargo wrote Oct. 20 in a research report.  ‘Risk Tolerance’  “For those who share our optimism for the future of the
Las Vegas Strip, we recommend investors increase their risk
tolerance within the MGM  capital structure ,” he wrote.  Stable prospects may not be enough for casino companies
such as Harrah’s that need growth to be able to reduce  leverage ,
Moody’s Investors Service analyst  Keith Foley  said. While the
overall gaming sector is showing signs of stabilizing, casino
gambling sales in Atlantic City, New Jersey, tumbled 12 percent
in September, after Pennsylvania added table games this summer
and a new casino opened in Philadelphia.  “It’s clear there’s a certain amount of stress in Atlantic
City that’s somewhat above and beyond just the problems with the
economy,” Foley said. “With the credit quality of some of
these issuers, stable revenue isn’t good enough.”  Apollo and TPG bought Harrah’s, which a regulatory filing
shows had $19.8 billion of long-term debt as of June 30, in
January 2008 just as credit markets were seizing up. The company
has since averted a potential default by asking creditors to
take losses on their investments in exchange for new bonds.  Repurchase Mortgages  In March, Chief Executive Officer  Gary Loveman  arranged
with lenders to extend $5.5 billion of maturities to 2015 and
repurchase mortgages for a fraction of face value.  The company will use proceeds of its initial public
offering to finish its 660-room Octavius Tower at Caesars Las
Vegas, develop the LINQ retail and entertainment area next to
the Flamingo on the Las Vegas Strip, and invest in the potential
joint-venture development of two Ohio casinos with Rock Gaming
LLC, Harrah’s said Oct. 18 in a filing.  “The IPO will have little direct impact on the company’s
overall liquidity and maturity profile,”  Chris Snow , an analyst
at debt-research firm CreditSights Inc. in New York, wrote in a
report. “Instead, the company plans to reduce leverage
indirectly by growing retained earnings, rather than paying down
debt.”  Paulson Fund  In June,  John Paulson ’s hedge fund agreed to acquire 9.9
percent of Harrah’s by exchanging bonds he bought at a discount.
A requirement of Paulson’s deal was that his shares be
registered on a public exchange, providing the fund with
liquidity in the event it chose to sell.  Moody’s upgraded the outlook for Harrah’s, rated Caa3, to
“positive” after Paulson & Co. said it would exchange debt for
the common equity, the rating company said June 4 in a
statement. S&P grades Harrah’s credit B-.  MGM  sold 40.9 million shares of stock this month and may
use proceeds to repay debt. Top shareholder  Kirk Kerkorian ’s
Tracinda Corp. also sold 27.8 million shares, reducing his
holding after considering strategic alternatives for the past
year. MGM had $12.9 billion of debt on Sept. 30, according to a
statement.  S&P, which grades the company CCC+, raised MGM’s outlook to
“stable” from “developing,” reflecting its “continued
progress toward improving its liquidity profile,” the rating
firm said Oct. 14 in a statement. Moody’s ranks the company
Caa1.  Hong Kong IPO  MGM Chief Executive Officer  Jim Murren  said in August he
plans to build “multiple properties” in Macau, where total
casino revenue in the first nine months surged 60 percent from
the same period last year.  MGM China Holdings Ltd., the Macau venture between MGM and
 Pansy Ho , daughter of billionaire  Stanley Ho , last month filed a
preliminary application for an initial public offering in Hong
Kong. Macau surpassed the Las Vegas Strip as the world’s biggest
gambling hub in 2006.  Casino companies in the Bank of America Merrill Lynch
gaming index have $5.56 billion maturing through 2013 and $15.74
billion due through 2015, Bloomberg data show.  “Prices have increased significantly while operating
results have generally been just OK,” said  Henry Pizzutello ,
chief investment officer in Greenwich, Connecticut, at Centaur
Performance Group LLC, which has about $175 million in assets
under management and owns MGM debt. “The risk-reward is less
attractive now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Detrixhe  in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
 Beth Jinks  in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  