-- Bovespa Stock Index Retreats to Three-Week Low on Oil Drop, Rate Prospects
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 2010-10-21T20:41:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/bovespa-stock-index-futures-gain-on-borrowing-costs-china-economic-growth.html
Brazil’s  Bovespa  stock index fell to
its lowest level in three weeks after commodity prices tumbled
and traders bet record low  unemployment  will prompt policy
makers to cool the economy by raising borrowing costs.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA , Brazil’s state-controlled oil
company, slid to the lowest price since January 2009 as crude
retreated. MRV Engenharia e Participacoes SA fell for a fifth
day, leading a drop in real-estate companies, on speculation
higher borrowing costs will curb home loan growth. BM&FBovespa
SA, which runs the Sao Paulo exchange, led a financial stock
slump after Brazil’s government closed a loophole on a recently
raised tax on foreigners’ investments in the derivatives market.  The  Bovespa  sank 1.1 percent to 69,652.10. Almost two
stocks fell on the index for every one that rose. The
 BM&FBovespa Small Cap index  gained 0.3 percent to 1,395.86. The
real fell 1.1 percent to 1.6968 per dollar.  Brazil’s unemployment rate fell to 6.2 percent, the lowest
since the government began publishing the data in March 2002 and
lower than the 6.5 percent median of estimates in a Bloomberg
survey of 36 economists. Yields on Brazil’s interest-rate
futures contract due in January 2012 rose seven basis points, or
0.07 percentage point, to 11.34 percent.  Copper, a bellwether for global growth, fell as the dollar
erased a decline, eroding demand for commodities as alternative
assets. Crude declined as China’s oil processing grew the least
in 18 months after government measures to cool the economy
reduced fuel consumption.  Fibria Advances  Fibria Celulose SA , the world’s largest pulp producer, rose
the most in two months in Sao Paulo trading after Credit Suisse
Group AG said the company will post the strongest third-quarter
results relative to its Brazilian competitors.  Fibria climbed 7.7 percent to 28.88 reais. Pulp shipments
last month were better than expected as purchases by China
improved “substantially,” Credit Suisse analysts led by  Ivan Fadel  said today in an e-mailed report. China and other buyers
of the papermaking raw material will likely rebuild inventories,
which may support prices through the fourth quarter and early
2011, according to the report.  Financial stocks declined on concern foreign investors may
become cautious on Brazil’s market after the government closed a
loophole on a recently raised tax on foreigners’ investments in
the derivatives market.  Trading Rules  BM&FBovespa SA , which runs the Sao Paulo exchange, declined
3.2 percent to 13.63 reais. The new rules ban Brazilian
financial institutions, including banks and brokerages, from
renting, lending or swapping assets with foreigners seeking to
invest in the futures market, the Monetary Council said in a
statement last night.  “We still don’t know how much this change will affect the
market in the short-term,” said  Fabio Cardoso , a partner at
Adinvest Consultoria, a Rio de Janeiro-based equity consulting
firm. “There may be foreigners trying to figure out how to
change their strategies with the new rules.”  The rules don’t affect existing transactions with a set
maturity date, though those without one must be terminated by
Dec. 31, Sergio Odilon, a central bank official in charge of
implementing the new rules, told reporters in Brasilia.  Brazil’s government on Oct. 18 boosted for the second time
this month a tax on foreign capital inflows that pushed the real
to a two-year high. The government raised to 6 percent, from 4
percent, the so-called IOF tax foreign investors must pay to
purchase fixed-income assets. It also raised the tax on foreign
investors’ margin deposits for futures markets to 6 percent from
0.38 percent.  Best Performers  Brazilian  stocks  would have been the best performers among
the biggest emerging-market countries had the government
refrained from taxing foreigners’ asset purchases a year ago,
Citigroup Inc. said. The Bovespa would have climbed as much as
19 percent to 80,000 had the government not initiated the 2
percent tax on Oct. 19, 2009, according to  Geoffrey Dennis , an
emerging-market equity strategist at Citigroup.  The  Bovespa  gained 4.7 percent since the tax was
implemented through yesterday, trailing the 15 percent advance
in India’s Sensitive Index, the 9.4 percent rally in Russia’s
Micex index and the 13 percent rise in the MSCI Emerging Markets
Index. The Shanghai Composite Index dropped 1.1 percent in the
same period.  “This has been a major constraint to investing in
Brazil,” Dennis said in an Oct. 15 phone interview from New
York. “My gut feeling is probably Brazil would be more like
75,000 to 80,000 without the tax.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alexander Cuadros  in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net ;
 Alexander Ragir  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  