-- Bravo Brio Raises $140 Million in Italian Restaurant Chain IPO
-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 2010-10-21T20:36:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/bravo-brio-raises-140-million-in-italian-restaurant-chain-initial-offer.html
Vera Bradley Inc. , the maker of
women’s handbags, and Italian restaurant chain  Bravo Brio
Restaurant Group Inc.  jumped in their first day of trading after
raising a combined $316 million in initial public offerings.  Vera Bradley  of Fort Wayne, Indiana, surged 55 percent to
$24.85 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading today after selling 11
million shares at $16 each, the top end of its price range.
 Bravo Brio  gained 14 percent to $15.95. The Columbus, Ohio-based
company priced 10 million shares for $14 apiece yesterday after
offering 8.3 million at $14 to $16.  The rallies came as the  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
climbed above its highest close since the month that New York-
based Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed in 2008. Vera
Bradley’s  sales  grew 26 percent to $165 million in the six
months ended July 31 from a year earlier, a filing with the
Securities and Exchange Commission showed.  “The overall market sentiment is good,” said Darren
Fabric, Chicago-based managing director at IPOX Capital
Management LLC, which oversees $3 billion. “Vera Bradley has
popularity right now with a certain segment of the population,
and so you see demand for it.”  Four of the five IPOs this week climbed in their first day
of trading, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Beijing-based  TAL
Education Group , which offers after-school tutoring services in
China, gained 50 percent yesterday after raising $120 million.  Piper Jaffray  Robert W. Baird & Co. in Milwaukee and Minneapolis-based
Piper Jaffray Cos. led Vera Bradley’s sale.  Jefferies Group Inc. 
in New York, Piper Jaffray and San Francisco-based Wells Fargo &
Co. arranged Bravo Brio’s offering.  Today’s gains were the latest sign that the U.S. IPO market
may be rebounding after at least 54 companies withdrew or
postponed initial sales this year amid concern that the recovery
from the longest recession since the Great Depression was
deteriorating. No American company has raised more than $700
million in an initial offering this year, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “We were very happy where we landed in terms of pricing,”
Michael Ray, Vera Bradley’s chief executive officer, said in an
interview from Milwaukee. “If you consider other IPOs prior to
ours, we were very pleased.”  Aegerion Pharmaceuticals Inc. , the Bridgewater, New Jersey-
based biopharmaceutical company that develops drugs treating
lipid disorders, will offer 4.7 million shares at $14 to $16
today, SEC filings and data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cecile Vannucci  in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 