-- Brazil, Argentina Interested in Soybean Alliance to Curb Asia Buyer Power
-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e
-- 2010-10-22T17:11:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/brazil-seeks-agriculture-policy-accord-with-argentina-minister-rossi-says.html
Argentina and Brazil are negotiating
an alliance with other South American producers of grains and
oilseeds to deal jointly with buyers in Asia and elsewhere,
according to Brazilian Agriculture Minister  Wagner Rossi .  Rossi met his Argentine counterpart  Julian Dominguez  and
ministers from Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay in Santiago today and
yesterday. Brazil is seeking to draw up “consistent” policies
with its neighbors, Rossi said in an interview in Santiago.  A deal between Argentina, Brazil and Paraguay would
combine about half of the world’s soybean production, according
to U.S. Department of Agriculture data. Argentina and Brazil are
also among the world’s top three corn exporters, according to
the USDA. China is the world’s largest soybean importer.  “We can start a new future where we can be associates,”
Rossi said. “That way we will not be manipulated by buyers.”  Soybeans have surged 21 percent over the past year on
increased import demand from China, reaching $12.35 a bushel
yesterday, the highest price since June 2009. Corn traded today
at $5.6775 a bushel after gaining 41 percent over the past year.  U.S. soybean sales jumped 85 percent from a week earlier to
2.02 million metric tons in the week to Oct. 14, the U.S.
Department of Agriculture said yesterday.  Brazil wouldn’t seek to raise food prices or “manipulate
markets” through the alliance, Rossi said. South America’s
largest economy is the top producer of coffee and sugar and the
second-largest producer of soybeans behind the U.S.  ‘Join Forces’  “If we join forces we will become the world’s most
important” regional producer of grains, Dominguez said in an
interview today in Santiago. “It’s about unifying our supply
platform.”  China halted Argentine soybean-oil imports in April because
of trade disputes ranging from textiles to kitchen products.
China restarted cooking oil imports from Argentina earlier this
month, three executives familiar with the deals said on Oct. 15.  Brazil has also fought trade disputes with China through the
World Trade Organization during the past decade as the Asian
nation banned shipments because of contamination of seeds. China
is also the world’s largest consumer of industrial metals, pork
and cotton and the second-biggest user of oil, corn and sugar.  Imports Rise  China’s soybean imports for the year from Oct. 1 may rise
to 54 million tons, from about 50 million tons in 2009-2010, the
China National Grain & Oils Information Center said in an e-
mailed report yesterday. That compares with the 55 million tons
projected by the U.S. Department of Agriculture.  “What we’re seeing is strong demand for soybeans” from
China,  Jonathan Barratt , managing director at Commodity Broking
Services Pty., said from Sydney today.  China may import as much as 15 million tons of corn in 2015
as demand outstrips local supply and the country enters a “new
era” of buying from overseas, the U.S. Grains Council said in
July, citing Shanghai JC Intelligence Co. Corn imports may total
1.7 million tons this year and 5.8 million tons next year, the
council said, citing Shanghai JC Chairman Hanver Li.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Craze  in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  