-- Brazil Coffee Output May Fall More Than Expected on Restoration
-- B y   K a t i a   C o r t e s
-- 2010-10-21T15:22:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/brazil-coffee-output-may-fall-more-than-expected-on-restoration.html
Coffee output in Brazil, the world’s
biggest producer, may be lower than expected next year as
growers prune trees to improve productivity and the plants enter
a lower yielding cycle, an Agriculture Ministry official said.  Growers are taking advantage of rising sales after prices
surged to a 13-year high to invest more in crops, adding
fertilizer and pruning branches and leaves to invigorate trees,
Carlos Besteti, manager of crop assessment at the ministry’s
crop forecasting agency, known as Conab, said in an interview.  The pruning of the trees may cut production next year even
more than already expected, as crops enter the lower yielding
half of a two-year cycle, according to Besteti. Global demand
for arabica beans will exceed supply by 1.3 million bags in
the year starting Oct. 1, according to Macquarie Group Ltd.  “Growers are spending more on their crops now to bear
fruits later,” Besteti said in a telephone interview from
Brasilia. “By cutting branches now, crops will be much more
vigorous in 2012, when Brazil is set to produce a bumper crop.”  Arabica coffee prices rose to a 13-year high in New York
today of $2.0315 a pound on concern that output may fall in
Brazil and Colombia, the world’s two biggest growers of the
variety, favored by Starbucks Corp. and other coffee chains.  Brazil will harvest 47.2 million bags this year, compared
with 39.5 million bags last year, Conab said on Sept. 9. Conab
will release its first estimate for next year’s crop on Dec. 14.
Besteti declined to give an estimate for next year’s crop.  A bag of coffee weighs 60 kilograms (132 pounds).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katia Cortes  in Brasilia at  at
 kcortes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  