-- Brazil Planning Overseas Bond Offerings to Help Curb Appreciation of Real
-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2010-10-21T21:12:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/brazil-likely-to-sell-more-bonds-in-reais-overseas-in-2010-augustin-says.html
Brazil will likely sell more bonds
denominated in reais overseas this year as part of its efforts
to stem gains in the currency, Treasury Secretary  Arno Augustin 
said.  Augustin, in an interview in Brasilia, said the foreign
bond sales in local currency could help slow capital inflows
from foreigners who currently enter the domestic market to buy
assets in reais.  Real-linked securities due in 2028 tumbled today, pushing
yields up the most since May, one day after the government sold
such bonds abroad for the first time in three years. Real-
denominated bonds trading in Brazil slumped this week after the
government boosted its tax on foreign fixed-income investors for
a second time this month to curb the real’s rally.  Proceeds from the sales will be added to the country’s
 reserves  of a record $283 billion, Agustin said.  “Soon we will talk about our strategy for foreign bonds,”
Augustin said. “We are looking at the exchange rate, it’s not a
problem of financing.”  Yields on the real-linked securities due in 2028 rose 13
basis points, or 0.13 percentage point, to 8.89 percent today.  Higher Tax  Brazil increased twice this month a tax on foreign inflows
in a bid to temper gains in the real, which has appreciated 37
percent against the dollar since the start of 2009, the third-
biggest gainer after the Australian dollar and the South African
Rand amid the 16 most traded currencies tracked by Bloomberg.
Today, the real fell 1.1 percent to 1.6968 per U.S. dollar.  Brazil’s bond sale follows similar local currency offerings
by Colombia, Chile and the Philippines as demand for emerging
market assets grows amid record-low interest rates in the U.S.,
Europe and Japan.  Brazil’s government sold 300,000 of the 450,000 NTN-F notes
it offered in the auction today and all the LTN and LFT bills,
according to a statement posted on the central bank website.  The Treasury rejected bids for its NTN-F bond maturing in
2021 because prices offered were “unreasonable,” Augustin
said.  Augustin said the government is on pace to meet its 2010
budget surplus  target  before interest payments of 3.3 percent of
gross domestic product. He said the government can meet the
target without taking advantage of accounting rules that allows
them to book some investments as part of the so-called primary
surplus.  No Difference?  An increase in real-denominated foreign bonds “won’t make
any difference” on the currency markets,  Andre Ferreira ,
director of currency at brokerage Futura Corretora, said in a
phone interview from Sao Paulo. The government would have to
sell $10 billion to $15 billion reais of the bond every month to
temper the real gains, he said.  “The volume of bond sales abroad has been a drop in the
ocean,” Ferreira said. “The country should be opening itself
up more, trying to pitch the real as a reserve currency and
transform Sao Paulo into a financial center like London, Hong
Kong or New York. Instead these measures are bringing us closer
to places such as Bolivia, Venezuela and Argentina.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Arnaldo Galvao  in Brasilia at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net 
 Andre Soliani  in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  