-- Britain's Bank Levy Threatens Multiple Tax Payments
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2010-10-21T14:31:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/britain-s-bank-levy-threatens-multiple-tax-payments-bba-says.html
The U.K. government has failed to
explain how banks will avoid multiple payments on the same
income under new  legislation  to tax their balance sheets, the
 British Bankers’ Association  said.  Chancellor of the Exchequer   George Osborne ’s plans,
published today, are “largely silent on how this levy would
interact with taxation in other countries,” said the BBA, which
represents more than 220 financial firms worldwide. The tax aims
to raise 2.5 billion pounds ($3.9 billion), ministers have said.  “Until this is clearer, some banks could be taxed multiple
times by multiple jurisdictions on the same activities,” the
lobby group said in its statement.  Britain’s new bank tax is due to operate from Jan. 1 as
part of a plan to “extract the maximum sustainable” revenue
from financial services firms and so plug a record budget
deficit, Osborne said yesterday. The levy will be based on
revenue from U.K. banks’ global businesses and from the British-
based units of foreign banks, the  draft legislation  showed.  Osborne will stick with a June plan to charge 0.04 percent
when the rate is introduced in January 2011, rising to 0.07
percent for the fiscal year starting in April. The rate may
change if needed to achieve the levy’s 2.5 billion-pound revenue
target, the government said. France and Germany said in June
that they would also introduce a levy on bank balance sheets.  “The U.K. banking sector will remain discouraged by the
Treasury’s rush to push through the levy ahead of most of the
U.K.’s international competitors in financial services,” Kevin
Cummings, a tax partner at London law firm Berwin Leighton
Paisner LLP said in a statement.  ‘Unfair and Disproportionate’  British-based banks have threatened to move abroad as taxes
rise and regulation tightens.  Barclays Plc  and HSBC Holdings Plc
said last month they may move headquarters if the government
decides to break up the banks.  Standard Chartered Plc  said in
August it may move from London if new taxes were imposed on
lenders.  “The levy still appears unfair and disproportionate for
Standard Chartered and HSBC given the potential for double-
taxation,”  Ian Gordon , a London-based analyst at BNP Paribas SA
in London wrote in a note to clients. That Standard Chartered’s
non-U.K. balance sheet is being taxed because the bank is
domiciled in Britain must cause “understandable irritation,”
Gordon said.  Parliamentary Scrutiny  The legislation will be scrutinized by Parliament during
the next 10 weeks. The plans will give banks an allowance rather
than taxing those with balance-sheet liabilities of more than 20
billion pounds, as first suggested. It states a “principles-
based” approach will be adopted for valuing derivatives and
other assets and liabilities.  “Banks should make a full and fair contribution in respect
of the potential risks they pose to the U.K. financial system
and wider economy,” Treasury Minister  Mark Hoban  said in a
written statement to Parliament.  Spokesmen at Barclays, HSBC,  Lloyds Banking Group Plc ,
Standard Chartered and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc declined
to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gavin Finch  in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  