-- British Airways Offers to Restore Cabin Crews' Travel Perks to End Dispute
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2010-10-21T16:29:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/british-airways-offers-to-restore-cabin-crews-travel-perks-to-end-dispute.html
British Airways Plc ’s revised
contract offer to 12,000 flight attendants would reinstate
flight perks stripped from crews who took part in 22 days of
strikes this year in a dispute over pay and staffing levels.  According to the  proposals , posted on the Unite union
website, travel discounts will be restored to levels accrued
before the walkout and an independent arbiter will rule on the
future of workers dismissed during the dispute. British Airways
had previously insisted that strikers would lose accumulated
benefits and that disciplinary decisions were non-negotiable.  Chief Executive Officer  Willie Walsh ’s new stance addresses
issues that led crews to reject a previous offer in July after
Unite had said other elements were acceptable. While travel
perks won’t be restored until 2013 and there’s no guarantee that
fired workers will be reinstated, the union said it’ll recommend
that members back the proposal in a vote, as required by Walsh.  “Is it perfect? No, far from it,” the union said on its
website. “Does it address the issues of staff travel and
disciplinaries? Yes it does. Is it to a level that is
satisfactory? That will be your decision.”  British Airways rose 0.9 percent to 280.7 pence as of the
4.30 p.m. close in London. Shares of Europe’s third-biggest
carrier have  gained  50 percent this year, valuing it at 3.24
billion pounds ($5.1 billion).  Strike Ballot  Unite said on its website that if members reject the offer
it will issue an “immediate ballot on strike action.”  An agreement would end a 20-month dispute that has cost
British Airways about 150 million pounds and will allow the
introduction of a parallel fleet staffed by crew hired on less
generous terms than existing employees.  “There is no question that the brand has suffered because
of the strikes but, I don’t think it’s irreparable damage by any
means,” said  Douglas McNeill , an analyst at Charles Stanley in
London, who recommends selling British Airways stock. “It would
certainly be good to eliminate the strike threat completely.”  The latest proposal seeks to improve industrial relations
through a review carried out by a mutually acceptable third-
party, supported by the state-funded  Advisory, Conciliation and
Arbitration Service , which will also have the final say over
disciplinary cases involving the sacked and suspended strikers.  “The offer we have made, based on our previous proposals,
is very fair and reasonable and represents a genuine solution to
the remaining issues in this dispute,” British Airways said
yesterday in a statement. It declined to comment further today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Rothwell  in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  