-- Buy Bullish Microsoft Options to Bet on Stock Rally, Morgan Stanley Says
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2010-10-21T15:08:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/buy-microsoft-call-options-on-sales-gains-morgan-stanley-says.html
Investors should buy  Microsoft Corp. 
call options because the world’s largest software maker may
rally on “potentially significant” corporate software sales
and the introduction of a new video-game controller, Morgan
Stanley said.  Equity derivatives strategists  Christopher Metli  and  Sivan Mahadevan  recommended buying “attractively priced” January $26
calls on the Redmond, Washington-based company. The calls, which
give the right but not the obligation to buy the stock at the
strike price, rose 11 percent to 90 cents as of 10:49 a.m. in
New York. Microsoft shares rose 0.8 percent to $25.51.  Microsoft may benefit as corporations upgrade to new
versions of its software and as cost cuts expand profit margins,
the strategists said, citing stock analyst Adam Holt in a
report. Microsoft also may gain as it introduces a motion-
sensing controller, called the Kinect, for its Xbox 360 in
November and its Windows Phone 7 platform, which competes with
Apple Inc. and Google Inc. in smartphone operating systems.  “Growing momentum in Microsoft’s enterprise business is
being overlooked,” the New York-based strategists wrote. With
Windows Phone 7 and Kinect potential near-term catalysts, they
said they like buying calls to wager on gains.  Paring Losses  Microsoft may be able to pare  this year’s  17 percent
retreat with positive reviews for Phone 7 and the $400 million
it will spend on marketing, Holt wrote in an Oct. 11 report
after the product’s introduction.  Buying the calls makes sense because Microsoft’s “option
prices are at low levels” and the January $26 calls break even
if the shares climb about 6.4 percent, the strategists said. The
stock hasn’t closed above $26 for 11 weeks.  Implied volatility , the key gauge of option prices, for
options expiring in three months is about 24, which is below the
32 level for other software stocks and is at the 35th percentile
for readings over the past year, the strategists said.  Investors use options to guard against fluctuations in the
price of securities they own, speculate on share-price moves or
bet that  volatility , or stock swings, will rise or fall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 