-- Buyout Firms Invest Record $40 Billion in Cash in Third Quarter
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2010-10-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/buyout-firms-invest-record-94-billion-in-equity-as-credit-remains-tight.html
Private-equity firms invested a
record $40.1 billion of cash in the third quarter as global
credit markets remained tight, according to an industry report.  Equity investments rose from $36.4 billion in the second
quarter and $17.8 billion in the first quarter, the Washington-
based Private Equity Growth Capital Council said today in a
report. Year-to-date equity investment climbed to an all-time
high of $94 billion, topping the $80 billion spent in the same
period in 2007, when credit markets began to freeze.  “There’s quite a bit of capital that’s in reserve that
needs to get to work,” Jason Thomas, vice president of research
at the council, said yesterday in a telephone interview.  Firms are sitting on more than $400 billion in capital
commitments they’re trying to invest, according to London-based
researcher Preqin Ltd. They’re putting up more of their
investors’ money, spending it on minority stakes and smaller,
faster-growing companies as buyouts remain at one-fifth their
volume in 2007.  KKR & Co.,  which led the record takeover of electricity
provider TXU Corp. three years ago, made a new bet on rising
energy prices using mostly equity. The New York-based firm is
partnering to build an exploration business for unconventional
energy, a person briefed on the plan said in July.  KKR said in June it would invest as much as $400 million in
a partnership with closely held Hilcorp Energy Co. to develop a
shale deposit in Texas.  Carlyle Group  Carlyle Group, the world’s second-largest private-equity
company, hired  Rodney Cohen  from Pegasus Capital Advisors to run
an equity fund that will make investments of as much as $150
million, including buying minority stakes. The fund is an
extension of the firm’s U.S. growth-capital business, which has
largely replaced its venture-capital efforts, a person briefed
on the plans said in September.  David Rubenstein , co-founder of Washington-based Carlyle,
said he isn’t seeing a return of the massive purchases of
several years ago.  “There is a general feeling increasingly to look at doing
smaller deals that attract less attention and have a greater
track record of success,” Rubenstein told reporters at an
industry conference in Abu Dhabi this week. “There may be an
occasional one where there have been rumors of $10 billion, but
I think as a general rule you are going to see things in the $3
billion-$5 billion range.”  The private-equity  council  said it’s creating an index to
measure the industry based on equity investment, fundraising,
transaction volume and the dollar value of private-equity exits
such as initial public offerings.  The index rose to 104.3 in the third quarter from 100.8 in
the second quarter, according to today’s report. Its low point
was 60.4 in the first quarter in 2009.  When the index stands at 100, the four components are at
their 10-year moving average. The index is calculated using data
from Thomson Reuters, Pitchbook, Preqin and the council.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laura Marcinek  in New York 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 