-- California Plans Mid-November $10 Billion Notes to Boost Cash
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2010-10-21T17:13:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/california-plans-mid-november-10-billion-notes-to-boost-cash.html
California may borrow about $10
billion the week of Nov. 15 to boost state coffers to pay bills
through the rest of the year.  The sale of the Revenue Anticipation Notes, a common type
of short-term municipal bond the state sells when cash-on-hand
is low and repays from later tax collections, would be followed
by general-obligation and public-works borrowing that week and
the next, according to a  calendar  of sales on Treasurer  Bill Lockyer ’s website.  The note and bond sales come after Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  and lawmakers on Oct. 8 approved a budget 100
days after the start of the fiscal year, the longest period ever
in which the state operated without a spending plan. Lockyer was
unable to sell the notes because the promise to repay them had
to be included in the budget.  The treasurer has already selected  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  to
manage the sale of short-term notes, along with De La Rosa & Co.
and Wells Fargo Securities. California issued $8.8 billion of
one-year notes in September 2009. JPMorgan also managed that
offering, assisted by 36 other firms.  Some of the proceeds from the note sale will be used to
repay a bridge loan Lockyer is arranging this month that will
exceed $6 billion. That money will be used to cover delinquent
bills that accrued during the budget impasse.  Lockyer has said that he’s looking at JPMorgan,  Bank of
America  Merrill Lynch,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  and RBC Capital
Markets for the loan. He said Oct. 19 that the finance may
originate from a syndicated loan or a single lender. He said in
September that JPMorgan had committed to the largest portion of
this year’s loan, without specifying how much.  According to his calendar, Lockyer also plans to sell the
week of Nov. 15 an as-yet-undisclosed amount of general-
obligation and Build America bonds. The week after that he has
scheduled two separate public-works debt issues and another
general-obligation offering. He hasn’t disclosed the size of
either.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Marois  in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  