-- Cameron Sets Out to Sell U.K. Austerity as Public Braces for Spending Cuts
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2010-10-21T13:29:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/cameron-sets-out-to-sell-u-k-austerity-as-public-braces-for-spending-cuts.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
set out to sell the austerity program his government detailed
yesterday, as newspapers across the political spectrum
highlighted the costs to voters.  “Ouch! That Hurt,” read the front page of Britain’s
biggest-selling daily,  Rupert Murdoch ’s  Sun , which backs the
Conservative-led coalition government. “Osborne Whacks
Britain,” it went on, referring to Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne . Cameron traveled to central England to take
questions from voters at an event near the city of Nottingham.  Among other Conservative-supporting newspapers, the Daily
Telegraph said the cuts will leave the middle class worse off,
and the Daily Mail described them as “a huge economic risk.”
The Labour-backing Daily Mirror labeled Cameron’s team a
“Wrecking Crew.”  “I’ve got one national newspaper saying I’m hitting the
poorest, Osborne told BBC News today. “I’ve got another saying
I’m hitting the middle class. What I’m trying to do is get this
right in the middle.”  Another Murdoch newspaper, the London-based Times, had a
front-page cartoon that depicted Osborne as an executioner with
a blood-stained ax holding out a Band-Aid to stanch the wound.  ‘Staring Down the Barrel’  “What if it doesn’t work?” asked one woman at the
televised event, where the prime minister was accompanied by his
Liberal Democrat deputy,  Nick Clegg . Another man from a company
working with the homeless told Cameron he was looking at losing
400 out of 650 staff. “We’re in a position where we’re staring
down the barrel,” he said.  A politics student who began by telling Cameron and Clegg
it was an honor to meet them went on to accuse them of being
deceptive over the effects of the cuts on the poor.  “I feel really bad,” Clegg told another female student
who challenged him about reversing his pre-election position on
cutting university tuition fees. “It’s one of the most
difficult things I’ve ever had to do, to own up that I signed a
pledge I now feel I can’t deliver.”  Government departments got an average 19 percent cut to
their budgets in the plan, with 490,000 public-sector jobs
forecast to be lost. People at every level of income are hit,
with those moving into social housing facing steeper rents, the
unemployed seeing their benefits cut, and wealthier parents
losing their child benefits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in Stapleford, England, at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 