-- Canada's Dollar Posts Declines Versus Greenback, Euro as Oil Price Slumps
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-10-21T21:04:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/canadian-dollar-gains-for-second-straight-day-as-equities-copper-climb.html
Canada’s dollar depreciated against
the greenback and traded near a seven-month low versus the euro
amid a decline in crude oil as traders bet the country’s central
bank is through with interest-rate increases until next year.  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie, reached parity on
Oct. 14 for the first time since April. It has weakened 2.2
percent since then. The U.S. dollar reversed earlier declines
and strengthened against 14 of its 16 most-traded counterparts.
The loonie is poised for a 1.5 percent decline on the week
versus the greenback, after appreciating for seven straight
weeks, and it’s up 0.3 percent this month and up 2.6 percent
this year.  “Broader U.S. dollar movements, rather than anything
Canadian-dollar specific,” are hitting the loonie,  Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank,
said via e-mail. “U.S. dollar dips are providing an opportunity
for shorts to cover ahead of looming event risk,” he said,
referring to a Federal Reserve meeting on Nov. 2-3.  The loonie dropped 0.6 percent to C$1.0267 per U.S. dollar
and fell 0.3 percent to C$1.4293 against the euro at 5:04 p.m.
in Toronto. It touched C$1.4334 per euro yesterday, the weakest
level since March 1. One Canadian dollar buys 97.42 U.S. cents.  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  told reporters in
Ottawa yesterday there are expectations for more monetary
stimulus from the Fed. He left the benchmark overnight interest
rate at 1 percent two days ago, and a day later said gross
domestic product likely grew 1.6 percent in the third quarter,
less than a July prediction of 2.8 percent.  Carney Futures  Futures prices indicate Carney may not raise rates for six
months. The rate on the six-month overnight index swap, a gage
of what investors think the policy rate will average during that
time, ended yesterday at 1.05 percent, down from 1.17 percent on
Sept. 16, indicating rate-rise bets are dwindling.  “With rate hikes off the table for a while in Canada and
the market tying us so tightly to the U.S. economy, the Canadian
dollar should continue to lag on the crosses,”  Blake Jespersen ,
director of foreign exchange at Bank of Montreal in Toronto,
said via e-mail.  The MSCI World Index of equities fell 0.2 percent. Crude
oil futures, Canada’s largest export, declined 1.4 percent
percent after earlier rising as much as 1.1 percent.  Shorter-term government bonds fell, driving the two-year
yield up two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 1.38
percent. The price of the 1.5 percent security maturing in
December 2012 dropped 4 cents to C$100.24.  The greenback is the worst performing major currency during
the past three months on speculation that Fed officials will
signal further measures are needed as part of the central bank’s
quantitative-easing plan to support growth. The currency of
Canada, which ships about two-thirds of its exports to the U.S.,
is the second-worst performer.  “When the U.S. dollar is under pressure we have, over the
last three months, seen the Canadian dollar underperform versus
the other majors,”  Jeremy Stretch , global head of foreign-
exchange strategy at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce’s CIBC
World Markets unit, wrote via e-mail. “That scenario may
continue to play out, but the conservative Canadian dollar may
benefit versus the previously top performers when and if we see
a U.S. dollar snapback.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  