-- Cantor's Lutnick Sees `Great Time to Expand' as Firm Weighs IPO
-- B y   D i a n e   B r a d y   a n d   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 2010-10-21T15:21:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/cantor-s-lutnick-sees-great-time-to-expand-as-bond-middleman-weighs-ipo.html
The financial crisis has been good
to Cantor Fitzgerald LP Chief Executive Officer  Howard W. Lutnick .  It crushed Wall Street rivals such as Bear Stearns Cos. and
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., which made mortgage bets that
Cantor and its publicly traded arm  BGC Partners Inc.  avoided,
Bloomberg Businessweek reported in its Oct. 25 issue. It led to
increased issuance of government bonds, including the U.S.
Treasuries that the two companies broker. It made smaller firms
cheaper to buy and top bankers easier to hire. And it led to new
regulation that could accelerate demand for the electronic
trading that’s core to his business.  So while other Wall Street houses are still dealing with
the fallout from the crisis, Lutnick, 49, calls this “a great
time to expand.”  He’s opened new offices in São Paulo, Moscow, and Beijing.
And he says he’s determined to push Cantor beyond its
traditional stronghold of bond brokering and make good on his
long-standing ambitions to turn it into a full-service
investment bank. Although it’s hard to measure the success of
his efforts so far, Lutnick says that if all goes well, he’d
like to take Cantor public within the next two years.  Cantor lost 658 of its 960 New York-based employees in the
World Trade Center attacks. Lutnick, whose brother, Gary, died
on Sept. 11, has steadily rebuilt a lucrative brokerage
franchise while branching into businesses from e-commerce sites
like Delivery.com to technology that lets Nevada gamblers bet on
individual sports plays.  He’s had the resources to invest in new ventures, he says,
because of conservative management: “We never had any debt.
It’s hard for bad things to happen when you have no debt.”  Hedge Funds  Both Cantor and BGC act as middlemen, facilitating the
trading of bonds, equities, and other financial products among
large institutions. Cantor, a 65-year-old private partnership
with nearly 1,400 employees, focuses on large clients such as
hedge funds, insurers, and pension funds that lean on its
expertise and relationships to make trades happen.  BGC, which went public through a merger two years ago, has
about 2,500  employees  focusing on transactions among banks, a
higher-volume, lower-commission business in which it relies
heavily on its proprietary technology.  Lutnick is chairman and CEO of both companies, which share
staff in such areas as public relations and human resources. He
and executives of Cantor and BGC control over a third of BGC
stock and more than 80 percent of its voting shares.  “It’s pretty much Howard Lutnick’s shop,” says Moody’s
Investors Service credit analyst  Peter Nerby .  BGC Profits  BGC’s profits rose 44.7 percent last quarter, to
$46.5 million, on a 14.4 percent increase in revenue, to
$336 million. Its stock is up almost 50 percent since its 2010
low in February.  Richard Repetto , an analyst with Sandler O’Neill & Partners
LP in New York, calls BGC “well positioned” because of its
relationships with banks and the likelihood that governments
will keep issuing debt.  The company, which has grown by opening new offices and
acquiring smaller rivals around the world, trades about
$720 billion of U.S. Treasuries, swaps, and other products
daily.  Cantor doesn’t disclose financial results, making it hard
to judge its progress. It is trying to break into the business
of making commercial loans and packaging them into securities,
for example, aiming to sell $5 billion of such products a year.  The prospects for that business are uncertain, says  Darrell Wheeler , an analyst at Amherst Securities. Issuance of bonds
backed by commercial mortgages is estimated to be less than $15
billion this year, down from $234 billion in 2007.  Hiring Bankers  Cantor has also hired more than 50 investment bankers whose
work has yet to show up in the usual rankings that chronicle the
achievements of Wall Street’s elite.  It has barely taken part in the $3.3 trillion of U.S. bonds
and syndicated loans underwritten by investment banks since
2008. Of the more than 40,000 mergers and acquisitions since
2008, Cantor has advised on only a handful, including the
acquisition by its BGC unit of London broker Mint Equities.  Steven L. Kantor , who joined the firm a year ago as head of
global investment banking, dismisses such lists as meaningless.
“I worry about profitability,” says Kantor, who’s working with
clients like midsize companies, real estate developers, and
entertainment figures looking to do private-equity deals. For
example, Cantor is helping reality-TV mogul  Simon Fuller  raise
money for a fund to invest in entertainment ventures.  Having fought aggressively to recapture what was lost after
Sept. 11, Lutnick is not about to pass up opportunities to grow.
One thing he says he won’t do is put the firm’s capital at risk
by starting a large proprietary trading operation, even if that
means forgoing potential profits. His goal is to be a matchmaker
and distributor.  “We’re not gambling,” he says. “I don’t want to lose.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Diane Brady  in New York at 
 dbrady11@bloomberg.net ;
 Shannon D. Harrington  in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Eric Gelman at   egelman3@bloomberg.net  