-- GM, Chrysler Will Gush Profit at 15 Million Units, Rattner Says
-- B y   J o h n   H u g h e s   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2010-10-21T19:09:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/carmakers-will-be-gushing-profit-when-sales-hit-15-million-rattner-says.html
General Motors Co . and Chrysler LLC
will lead automakers to “gushing profits” when annual U.S.
sales reach 15 million vehicles, said  Steven Rattner , the former
head of the federal government’s auto task force.  GM reduced costs and liabilities during its 2009 bankruptcy
proceedings, allowing the company to make a profit when fewer
U.S. vehicles are sold, Rattner said today on Bloomberg
Television’s “Surveillance Midday with  Tom Keene .”  “This industry has been restructured to make money,”
Rattner said. At 15 million vehicles a year, “they will be
gushing profits.”  The auto industry is recovering a bit slower than expected
and eventually will return to a pace of 15 million a year,
Rattner said. U.S. carmakers in September sold vehicles at a
rate of 11.8 million, up from 9.4 million a year earlier,
according to researcher Autodata Corp. on Oct. 1.  A pace of 15 million vehicles is needed “simply to
accommodate new drivers and the aging of the fleet,” Rattner
said. “It will happen, it’s only a question of when.”  Rattner, 58, led President  Barack Obama ’s auto task force
from February 2009 until July last year, after GM emerged from a
bankruptcy backed by $50 billion in government aid. He has since
written a memoir called “Overhaul: An Insider’s Account of the
Obama Administration’s Emergency Rescue of the Auto Industry.”  GM’s unwanted businesses in bankruptcy, known as Old GM,
today won conditional approval for the largest manufacturing
reorganization in history, as a judge said the rights to a
potential $1.5 billion in lawsuit proceeds would be determined
later.  Rattner said today the slumping global economy will test
U.S. companies and create a challenge for the auto industry.  “In the short term, I think we have a cyclical recovery,
certainly the auto sector and elsewhere, but the global
competition is not getting easier,” Rattner said. “It’s
getting harder.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Hughes  in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 