-- McDonald's Profit Rises 10% as Customers Snap Up Smoothies
-- B y   I a n   T h o m s o n   a n d   B u r t   H e l m
-- 2010-10-21T20:12:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/mcdonald-s-profit-rises-10-as-customers-snap-up-smoothies.html
McDonald’s Corp. , the world’s
largest restaurant chain, posted a 10 percent gain in third-
quarter profit after luring more customers with new menu items
in the U.S. and expanded operations in Europe.  Net income rose to $1.39 billion, or $1.29 a share, the Oak
Brook, Illinois-based company said today in a statement. That
compared with the $1.25 average of  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  “McDonald’s continues to gain market share,”  Peter Saleh ,
a New York-based restaurant analyst with Telsey Advisory Group,
said in a telephone interview, citing the company’s U.S. and
European results. “There’s not going to be another hamburger
chain that posts anywhere near that.”  Sales rose 4.3 percent to $6.3 billion, fueled by sales of
products like frappes and fruit smoothies in the U.S., and
longer operating hours in Europe. The chain, led by Chief
Executive Officer  Jim Skinner , said it has benefited from
extensive remodels to its European restaurants, which generated
41 percent of its revenue last year.  McDonald’s rose $1.03, or 1.3 percent, to $78.44 at 4:00
p.m. in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange. The
 shares  have increased 26 percent so far this year.  The chain’s sales at stores open more than 13 months
increased 6 percent globally. They rose 5.3 percent in the U.S.,
4.1 percent in Europe and 8.1 percent in Asia, the Middle East
and Africa.  Struggling Rivals  McDonald’s performance comes at a time when its rivals are
struggling. Burger King Holdings Inc., the second-largest U.S.
burger chain, reported falling year-over-year sales in four of
the past five quarters. The company announced last month it was
being acquired by 3G Capital, the New York investment firm, for
$3.3 billion.  Wendy’s-Arby’s Group Inc., the No. 3 U.S. burger chain,
reported a 3.9 percent drop in second-quarter sales. The company
also has attracted interest from potential acquirers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian Thomson  in New York at 
 ithomson2@bloomberg.net ;
 Burt Helm  in New York at 
 bhelm3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 Rajello@bloomberg.net  