-- Central Bank Reserve Growth Counter Claims of Currency War, Nomura Says
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2010-10-21T15:38:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/central-bank-reserve-growth-counter-claims-of-currency-war-nomura-says.html
Central banks didn’t escalate
currency-reserves growth during the third quarter while
political leaders engaged in a war of words about exchange
rates, according to Nomura Holdings Inc.  Foreign-exchange reserves increased $205 billion in the
third-quarter due to currency intervention, up 3.5 percent from
an increase of $198 billion in the year-ago period, data from
Nomura shows. Total reserves increased $460 billion in the
quarter once price changes are taken into account, Nomura said.  Group of 20 finance chiefs plan to say members will refrain
from “competitive undervaluation” at the meeting in Gyeongju,
South Korea this week, an official from a G-20 country said
today, citing a draft statement and speaking on condition of
anonymity. U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has
called on China to let the yuan appreciate faster. Brazil’s
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  called a the exchanges a
“currency war,” while Nomura’s data suggest less overall
central bank activity and “a shifting intervention strategy.”  “Total intervention’s not extraordinarily high, it’s
consistent with what we saw in 2008,”  Jens Nordvig , a managing
director of currency research in New York, said in an interview.
“There seems to be more noise on this issue than there was in
the past. The reason that is the case is a lot of big economies
are still doing very poorly.”  Geithner Moves  Ahead of the G20 meeting, China’s interest-rate increases
and Geithner’s commitment to a strong dollar suggest the nations
may have quietly reached a currency accord, Bank of New York
Mellon Corp. said.  Geithner last week delayed a report on foreign-exchange
markets, saying the yuan remained undervalued and that China
needed to show continued commitment to allowing the currency to
rise against the dollar over time. The People’s Bank China of
China unexpectedly raised its benchmark lending and deposit
rates this week, the first increase since 2007.  Nomura said China accounted for $89 billion, or 43 percent
of global intervention, adding the equivalent of 7.2 percent
worth of the country’s gross domestic product to foreign
exchange reserves. That compares with $92 billion, or 46.5
percent of global intervention in the third-quarter of 2009.  Non-Japan Asian economies including Taiwan, Korea and the
Philippines rank second through eighth in third-quarter
intervention relative to gross domestic product as the country’s
attempt to protect their economies against massive inflows of
dollars, according to the report. Saudi Arabia ranked first.  ‘Appreciation Pressure’  “You have this appreciation pressure on Asian currencies
and they’re just intervening in very, very large sizes on a
consistent basis, despite the fact that they have pretty strong
growth themselves,” said Nordvig, who led the report. “That’s
where the tension lies and that’s where the focus you’ll see
around G20.”  The U.S. lowered its foreign-exchange reserves by $6
billion in the quarter and the euro zone added $12 billion.
Brazil was the highest non-Asian country, besides Saudi Arabia,
adding $15 billion in foreign currencies, or 3.8 percent of GDP.  Nomura said it “may be too early to pick up the effect of
fast-paced dollar weakness, which was particularly visible in
the second half of September.”  The Dollar Index , which
IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses to track the greenback
against the currencies of six major U.S. trading partners fell
8.5 percent in the third quarter as concerns inflation will
accelerate and the U.S. economy will weaken weigh on the
currency. It was the  biggest drop  since the fourth quarter of
2002.  Korea Holdings  Korea, which saw the won appreciate 6.7 percent against the
dollar in the third-quarter, the biggest gain among non-Japan
Asian currencies, intervened the least in September among its
counterparts. The host of the G20 summit lowered its foreign-
exchange reserves by $2 billion last month bringing the total
third-quarter intervention to $9 billion, or 4.2 percent of GDP,
according to the report.  “This pattern could potentially be a function of the
upcoming G20 meeting in Seoul,” the analysts wrote.  The currency rose based on speculation foreigners will pump
more money into the nation’s assets as rising exports cause the
current-account surplus to swell. The current-account surplus is
forecast to widen to about $5 billion in September, from $2.07
billion in August, the finance ministry said Oct. 5.  “With major economies facing significant domestic
challenges, they are going to push aggressively for rebalancing
towards domestic driven growth in surplus countries, primarily
in Asia,” Nordvig said. “You will see meaningful yuan
appreciation over the next two to three months and that is
crucial to calming global currency tension, and reducing
surpluses in non-Japan Asia overall.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  