-- CEOs Shun Overseas Deals as Economic Woes Trump Record Aussie
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2010-10-21T13:00:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/ceos-shun-overseas-deals-as-economic-woes-trump-record-aussie.html
Australia’s corporate chiefs are
spurning overseas acquisitions as concerns about the health of
the global economy overshadow the record buying power of the
local currency.  Australian companies have made or announced $53.7 billion
of purchases abroad this year as the currency reached parity
with the U.S. dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Stripping out  BHP Billiton Ltd.’s  $40 billion hostile bid for
Canada’s Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc., the amount would be
the lowest since 2003.  “Now is a great time to make an acquisition offshore, but
it also happens to be a time when boards generally are quite
cautious about making offshore acquisitions,” said  Andrew Pridham , head of Australian investment banking at Moelis & Co.
in Sydney. “The appetite is not there.”  The International Monetary Fund  this month  said the global
recovery is fragile, predicting slower economic growth worldwide
in 2011.  Ralph Norris , chief executive officer of  Commonwealth
Bank of Australia , the nation’s biggest lender, echoed that view
on Oct. 20 when he called the world’s recovery “weak and
uneven” and pledged a conservative approach to risk.  The fallout from failed takeovers in past years is adding
to executives’ reluctance to pursue deals, said Pridham, a
former member of UBS AG’s global investment banking management
committee.  Not Enough  Centro Properties Group ceded control to creditors in late
2008 after $9 billion of acquisitions of U.S. shopping centers
backfired as the world’s largest economy contracted and debt
costs soared. Australian brewer  Foster’s Group Ltd. , which
expanded into California in 2001 with the A$2.6 billion ($2.6
billion) purchase of Beringer Wine Estates Holdings Inc., said
in May it will spin off the wine unit after years of writedowns.  Currency movements alone aren’t enough to push CEOs into
deal making, said  Daniel Kleijn , Sydney-based co-head of mergers
and acquisitions at UBS.  “They are way more strategic than that,” he said. “Do I
anticipate a massive increase of Australian companies buying
offshore? Not necessarily. Is it a good time to do it?
Probably.”  The Australian dollar climbed to $1.0004 on Oct. 15, the
highest since the currency became freely traded in 1983.
Yesterday, it traded within two U.S. cents of parity.  Europe Crisis  Australia avoided recession and fared better than most
developed countries during the financial crisis, and the IMF
expects the economy to grow faster in 2011. By contrast, Europe
has been ravaged by a potential credit crisis and market swings,
making takeovers there less attractive to Australian CEOs,
according to  Atul Lele , Sydney-based equity strategist at Credit
Suisse Group AG.  “It’s very difficult to go out there and acquire companies
when you’re seeing significant volatility across markets
globally,” he said. “It’s a question of companies getting
confidence back.”  Companies that remain on the sidelines risk missing an
opportunity to make bargains: The Aussie will fall to 93 cents
against the dollar in 2011 and to 89 cents in 2012, according to
the average of 32 forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  The currency’s rise hasn’t curtailed overseas purchases of
Australian assets. The value of foreign acquisitions in the
country has jumped to $44 billion this year from $35 billion for
all of 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show, led by Canada
Pension Plan Investment Board’s A$3.4 billion takeover of toll-
road operator Intoll Group.  Takeover Targets  Australian assets worth a combined A$45.6 billion,
including  Whitehaven Coal Ltd.  and  Perseus Mining Ltd. , have
become takeover targets because of a global food and energy
shortage, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc said in a Sept. 15
report.  KKR & Co. , the private-equity firm founded by buyout
pioneers  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , this week offered to
buy Australian asset manager  Perpetual Ltd.  for as much as
A$1.75 billion. The bid marks a return to Australia for KKR,
which in 2006 was involved in bids for at least three companies
in the country.  For buyers from countries such as China and India, which
want to guarantee fuel supplies to power economic growth, price
isn’t the main concern, said Nigel Lake, joint chief executive
officer and founder of  Pottinger , a Sydney-based advisory firm
specializing in mergers and acquisitions.  “The risk of not having security of supply is a much worse
risk than the chance that the Australian dollar may weaken
slightly over the near term, and you might have been able to buy
it 10 percent cheaper,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Angus Whitley  in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  