-- Cevital to Boost Sugar Refining Capacity 25% as India, Sudan Demand Gains
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2010-10-21T16:23:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/cevital-to-boost-sugar-refining-capacity-25-as-demand-climbs.html
Cevital, Algeria’s biggest sugar
producer, plans to expand its Bejaia refinery by 25 percent next
year to tap rising international demand for the commodity, Chief
Executive Officer Issad Rebrab said.  Cevital, which already controls about 85 percent of the
Algerian market, refines some 2 million metric tons of sugar
annually in the port town of Bejaia, and plans to add 500,000
tons in 2011 at a cost of about $15 million, Rebrab said. About
half of its output will be earmarked for export.  Global sugar demand is forecast to climb 2.1 percent in the
2010-11 season, more than double the year-earlier pace, as world
production rises 5.4 percent, Macquarie Group Ltd. said in a
report last week. Refiners are expanding output to benefit from
prices that have jumped about 17 percent in the past 12 months.  “We want to reach 2.5 million tons of capacity at Bejaia
in the next 12 months,” Rebrab said in an interview at a trade
conference in Montreal yesterday. “We have already begun the
studies. Most of the infrastructure we need is already in place,
so we don’t need to make a big investment.”  Cevital sells its sugar in countries such as India, Sudan,
Tunisia, Iraq and Saudi Arabia, Rebrab said. The company would
consider further expanding capacity to 3 million tons should
demand continue to rise, he said, without providing a timeframe.  Prices Soar  Refined-sugar futures touched $731.70 a ton on NYSE Liffe
in London yesterday, the highest price since February. Prices
have gained over the past year on forecasts for reduced crop
yields in Brazil, Pakistan and Russia.  Closely held Cevital has about 12,500 employees and annual
sales of $2.2 billion. Food-processing operations such as oil,
margarine and sugar account for about 60 percent of revenue. The
company also imports cars and develops shopping centers, among
other businesses.  Sugar isn’t the only food business targeted for growth.
Cevital intends to build a $100 million oilseed-crushing plant,
also in Bejaia, that would supply export markets, Rebrab said.
Construction will begin once Cevital receives permission from
Algeria’s government, “probably in a few months,” he said.  The company is also awaiting government approval for a
deepwater harbor, a shipyard, two steel factories, an aluminum
smelter -- together with  Rio Tinto Group  -- and a car plant.
These and other planned projects would require Cevital and
foreign partners to invest as much as $30 billion, Rebrab said.  Project Financing  Cevital has lined up 1.4 billion euros ($2 billion) from
two international banks to part-fund the projects, Rebrab said,
declining to identify the banks. Shippers including France’s CMA
CGM SA and Denmark’s  A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S  are interested in
investing in the deepwater harbor, he said.  Cevital would consider selling a stake to international
investors or offering shares in some of its units on the stock
market to raise more capital, Rebrab said, stressing that no
transaction is imminent.  “Our strategy to finance our share of the projects is to
first use our cash flows, our lines of credit, and possibly
raise debt on the Algerian market,” he said. “If we don’t have
enough money from these sources, then we will list some of our
units on the stock market. But this is still a long way away.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Frederic Tomesco  in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  