-- Chelsea Captain Terry Calls on Rooney to Join the Blues: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2010-10-21T10:10:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/chelsea-captain-terry-calls-on-rooney-to-join-the-blues-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. media, with clickable links to the Web.  Blue Roo?  Chelsea captain John Terry called  Wayne Rooney  “the best
player in the world” and suggested his England teammate should
join him at Stamford Bridge, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Rooney said yesterday that he asked to leave Manchester
United because he’s not convinced the playing staff is being
strengthened enough.  “We’ve got a great squad of players and he would add to
that and strengthen the squad,” Terry said.  Hodgson Under Threat?  Roy Hodgson ’s future as Liverpool coach is in doubt after
he said he might be unable to stop  Fernando Torres  leaving,  the
Sun  said.  The Spain striker has been linked with Manchester United as
a possible replacement for Rooney.  Anfield legend  Kenny Dalglish  may be brought in to “stop
the rot” at Liverpool as it lies second-bottom in the Premier
League, the Sun reported.  Hands Off Bale  Tottenham coach  Harry Redknapp  gave a “hands off” warning
to clubs interested in signing  Gareth Bale  after he scored three
goals in last night’s 4-3 Champions League loss at Inter Milan,
the  British Broadcasting Corp.  reported.  “He’s a player that we hope to build a team around,”
Redknapp told the BBC. “There’s no way that we would or should
contemplate selling him at the moment, certainly not in the near
future.”  City’s Portuguese Target  Manchester City and Chelsea want 15-year-old Portuguese
winger Bruma to “snub” Sporting Lisbon and join them in
England, the  Daily Mail  reported.  Sporting can’t sign him on a professional contract until he
turns 16 at the weekend, the Mail said. His club expects him to
stay on after developing him through the youth ranks and would
try to invoke a 17.6 million-pound ($27.7 million) release
clause in the contract, the newspaper added.  He’s “inevitably” been compared to compatriot  Cristiano Ronaldo , who also played for Sporting, the Mail said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter-Joseph Hegarty  in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 