-- Chevron Approves $7.5 Billion Gulf of Mexico Project
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2010-10-21T20:05:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/chevron-moves-ahead-with-7-5-billion-project-in-gulf-of-mexico.html
Chevron Corp ., the second-largest
U.S. energy company, approved a $7.5 billion plan to develop oil
and natural gas fields in the deep-water Gulf of Mexico, the
largest investment since the Obama administration ended its
drilling ban.  The two fields, known as Jack and St. Malo, are located
about 280 miles (450 kilometers) southwest of New Orleans and
are estimated to hold the equivalent of more than 500 million
barrels of oil, Chevron said in a statement today. The project
includes a floating platform to handle production, expected to
begin in 2014.  The announcement comes six months after an explosion aboard
a deep-water Gulf drilling rig triggered the biggest offshore
oil leak in U.S. history. The U.S. Interior Department last week
issued new safety regulations and ended a moratorium on new
deep-water drilling that was put in place after BP Plc’s Macondo
well leaked an estimated 4.9 million barrels.  The decision came as a surprise so soon after the safety
rules were announced, said  Jason Gammel , a London-based analyst
for Macquarie Securities USA Inc.  “The economics of this project are robust enough to
overcome any incremental cost of new regulation,” said Gammel,
who rates Chevron shares “outperform” and owns none. “That’s
what Chevron is telling us.”  Chevron, based in San Ramon, California, owns half of Jack
and 51 percent of St. Malo and will pay about $3.8 billion as
its share for initial development of the project. Its partners
in the Jack field are Statoil ASA and A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S,
each with 25 percent shares.  Deep-Water Wells  Statoil also owns 21.5 percent of St. Malo, alongside
Petroleo Brasileiro SA with 25 percent and Exxon Mobil Corp. and
Eni SpA, with 1.25 percent each.  BP’s Macondo well was under about 5,000 feet (1,524 meters)
of water, about 40 miles from New Orleans. The St. Malo and Jack
wells lie under 7,000 feet of water, Chevron said.  The project includes a central production plant with the
capacity to handle 170,000 barrels of oil and 42.5 million cubic
feet of natural gas per day, Chevron said. Current Chevron oil
production from the Gulf is 149,000 barrels a day, about 7.8
percent of its total worldwide crude production in the second
quarter.  Chevron has seven other deep-water discoveries in the Gulf
awaiting development, including the Caesar and Tonga fields
scheduled to begin production next year. Like the project today,
Caesar and Tonga will be a joint development. It’s expected to
cost $1.7 billion, the company said in a March presentation to
analysts.  Chevron  rose  23 cents to $84.25 at 4 p.m. in composite
trading on the New York Stock Exchange. The shares have gained
9.4 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 