-- Chevron Allowed to Subpoena Ecuadoreans' Lawyer in Amazon Pollution Case
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2010-10-21T18:55:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/chevron-allowed-to-subpoena-ecuadoreans-lawyer-in-amazon-pollution-case.html
Chevron Corp. , the second-largest
U.S. energy company, can subpoena an American attorney working
for Ecuadorean villagers suing the company in a multibillion
dollar environmental pollution case, a federal judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge  Lewis Kaplan  in Manhattan yesterday
denied a request by New York attorney  Steven Donziger  and
plaintiffs in the lawsuit in Ecuador to block a subpoena by
company lawyers seeking testimony and documents.  Kaplan said the evidence he reviewed, including outtakes
from the documentary film “Crude,” showed that Donziger’s
 “principal functions” in events in Ecuador “have included
 lobbying, media and press relations, and politics.”  “Donziger’s role at least in major respects is that of a
political operative, not a lawyer,” Kaplan said in his ruling.  Chevron is fighting a lawsuit in Ecuador over the effects
of wastewater discharges from Texaco Inc.’s oil operations that
occurred more than 20 years ago in the Amazon basin. The company
said it needs to gather evidence to prove lawyers for plaintiffs
improperly influenced the findings of a court-appointed expert
who estimated billions of dollars in damages owed by Chevron,
according to court filings. Chevron acquired Texaco in 2001.  Lawyers for the Ecuadoreans deny wrongdoing.  Karen Hinton ,
a spokeswoman for the Amazon Defense Front, which is involved in
representing Ecuadoreans in the lawsuit, said the group
disagrees with Kaplan’s decision.  “Chevron now seeks to use its false allegations to pry
open all private communications between lawyers and their
clients for the entire 17-year duration of this litigation,”
Hinton said in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Fraud and Corruption’  “Chevron is confident that the evidence obtained in this
process will provide additional proof of the fraud and
corruption perpetrated by Mr. Donziger and his associates in the
trial against Chevron in Ecuador,”  Justin Higgs , a Chevron
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  The lawsuit in Ecuador was brought by Amazon Basin
residents who claim the company is responsible for pollution and
illness caused by toxic waste from oil drilling in the jungle
from 1964 to 1990 or later. The pollution was allegedly left by
Texaco, according to the complaint. Chevron has denied
wrongdoing.  The case is in a court in Lago Agrio, a town 20 miles
(32 kilometers) south of the Colombia border and near the former
Texaco oil fields. Donziger has been counsel to the Amazon
residents since 1993. A ruling in the case is expected early
next year.  The subpoena case is In re Application of Chevron Corp.,
10-00002, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Gullo  in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 