-- Chile Offers Visas, $40,000 Grant to Lure Overseas Startups, Boost Economy
-- B y   N i c k   L e i b e r
-- 2010-10-21T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/chile-offers-visas-40-000-grant-to-lure-overseas-startups-boost-economy.html
Like so many young entrepreneurs,
 Stanford University  graduates Amit Aharoni and Nicolas Meunier
had an idea for a business: a website to help Americans find
deals for cruise-ship vacations.  Unlike many other entrepreneurs, they didn’t start their
company in Silicon Valley, opting instead to go about 6,000
miles (10,000 kilometers) south, to Santiago, Chile, Bloomberg
Businessweek reports in its Oct. 25 issue.  Aharoni, a 30-year-old with a master’s degree in business
administration who spent nine years in the Israeli defense
forces, and Meunier, 25, a programmer from France with a
master’s in electrical engineering, are the first participants
in  Start-Up Chile , a government program to woo foreign
entrepreneurs. The goal is to put Chile on the map as an
innovation hub.  “We wouldn’t have come to Chile if it hadn’t been for the
program,” Aharoni said. “It’s not something that you might
consider naturally.”  Start-Up Chile is trying to tackle what Chilean President
 Sebastian Pinera  calls an obstacle to growth: a dearth of
entrepreneurs. Shortly after taking office in March, the
billionaire, who made his fortune introducing credit cards to
the country, pledged to add 100,000 businesses and 800,000 jobs
by 2014.  In a July speech, Pinera said Chile needs to look outside
its borders and “work hard to regain its entrepreneurial and
innovative culture.”  Nicolas Shea, a Chilean who had been running an e-learning
company in Silicon Valley, moved back to Santiago to help run
Start-Up Chile. The program will have a $1 million budget this
year and $5 million in 2011.  Software to Solar  More than 150 people, with ideas ranging from software to
solar panels to gadgets that use radio-frequency identification
technology, have applied. Those who make the cut will receive a
$40,000 grant, a one-year residency visa and assistance from the
program’s seven-person team to ensure that participants settle
in quickly and make connections with potential hires and
investors.  The program’s five-person selection committee has approved
25 companies this year, most of them submitted by foreign-born
residents of the U.S., Shea said. The idea is to borrow talent,
not steal it, he said.  “It would be ridiculous to want to compete with Silicon
Valley or Bangalore,” Shea said. “But we want to be in the
game as an agile, friendly player -- a good place to do a test
market. I can’t think of a cheaper public policy to gather all
the talent that we will gather.”  Create Jobs  Detractors have questioned why Chilean citizens are
ineligible for the grants. In comments on  blogs  and via Twitter,
they argue that subsidies should be awarded to Chileans to
develop the country from the inside. Supporters of the program
counter that foreigners will help create jobs and serve as an
inspiration to locals.  Chileans will see that “taking the entrepreneurial plunge
is possible because here comes this guy with an idea” and it
got funding, said  Alex Seelenberger , managing director at  Aurus
Bios  in Santiago, one of about 20 Chilean venture capital firms.  Aharoni said the program is paying off more quickly than he
expected. He and Meunier have already met with several Chilean
investors and plan to have a prototype ready by January, which
they intend to use to raise money.  While salaries for software developers in Chile “are much
closer to Silicon Valley than China or India,” the Start-Up
Chile staff has provided valuable help in setting up meetings
with potential partners, Aharoni said.  “We started seeing that our schedule is more and more
filled,” Aharoni said. “It’s at least as filled as it was in
California, business-wise and social-wise.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nick Leiber  in New York at 
 nleiber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rocks at 
 drocks1@bloomberg.net  