-- China's Economic Growth Cools as Inflation Accelerates
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-21T08:05:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/china-s-9-6-growth-bolsters-case-for-stronger-yuan-ahead-of-g-20-meeting.html
China’s  economy  grew 9.6 percent in
the third quarter and inflation accelerated to the fastest pace
in almost two years, adding weight to calls for the engine of
the global recovery to let its currency appreciate more rapidly.  Growth exceeded the 9.5 percent median  estimate  of
economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Consumer prices  jumped
3.6 percent in September from a year earlier, the statistics
bureau said in Beijing today. That matched the median forecast.  China’s expansion, running at more than three times the
pace of growth in the U.S., may add fuel to arguments that the
second-largest economy can withstand a stronger yuan as Group of
20 officials gather to discuss currencies in South Korea
tomorrow. China raised interest rates on Oct. 19 for the first
time since the global crisis, affirming policy makers’
confidence in the recovery and concern at price pressures.  “Foreign critics would look at today’s data and argue for
stronger yuan gains,” said  Ben Simpfendorfer , a Hong Kong-based
economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc. Chinese officials “may
worry about tightening too aggressively on both interest rates
and the currency.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. estimated quarter-on-quarter
growth accelerated to 10 percent. The statistics bureau only
gives a year-on-year figure.  Asian currencies rose, with the yuan strengthening 0.1
percent to 6.6449 per dollar as of 3:46 p.m. in Shanghai.  Stocks Decline  The  Shanghai Composite Index , which is in a so-called bull
market, declined 0.7 percent from a six-month high.  Economic growth was the slowest in a year, pared by a
higher comparative base in the same period in 2009, after a
second-quarter expansion of 10.3 percent that pushed China’s
economy past Japan’s. First-quarter growth was 11.9 percent.  Officials have reined in new lending and clamped down on
speculation in the housing market to limit the risk of asset
bubbles after record property-price gains this year. A crackdown
to meet energy-efficiency and pollution targets has also cooled
the economy.  Industrial output  rose a less-than-estimated 13.3 percent
in September from a year earlier compared with 13.9 percent in
August, the statistics bureau data showed. September’s inflation
rate was driven up by food prices and residential costs such as
rent and renovations. In August, prices rose 3.5 percent.  Economy ‘Stabilizing’  “Today’s data provide further confirmation that the
slowdown in Chinese growth is very moderate and that conditions
are stabilizing,” said  Brian Jackson , an emerging-market
strategist at Royal Bank of Canada. “The economy is strong
enough to tolerate further gradual policy normalization,” he
said, forecasting half a percentage point of interest-rate
increases in 2011 and the yuan rising to 6.2 per dollar.  This week’s interest-rate increase followed China’s
decision in June to scrap a crisis policy of pegging the yuan to
the dollar to aid exporters. Since then the Chinese currency has
gained about 2.7 percent. U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  wants more, arguing this week that the yuan remains
“significantly undervalued, more so than is true of any major,
significant emerging-market currency.”  G-20 nations’ finance ministers and central bankers will
meet in South Korea to discuss currencies, stimulus efforts and
economic policies amid tensions over nations’ exchange-rate
interventions to protect exporters.  Rising Investment  In China,  urban fixed-asset investment  gained 24.5 percent
in the nine months through September, compared with economists’
24.6 percent median estimate, today’s data showed. Retail sales
rose 18.8 percent in September and producer-price inflation
cooled to 4.3 percent.  Analysts are split on whether interest rates will rise
again this year. Credit Agricole CIB and HSBC Holdings Plc
expect an increase. Morgan Stanley disagrees.  Industrial Bank Co. economist  Lu Zhengwei  said he didn’t
rule out as many as two increases in banks’ reserve requirements
by year-end. The central bank this month told six banks to
temporarily set aside larger reserves, according to three people
with knowledge of the matter.  Inflation is higher than the government’s full-year target
of 3 percent and a jump in the nation’s  foreign-exchange
reserves  to $2.65 trillion last quarter highlighted the risk
that extra money in the financial system will push up prices.
Record  lending  and a 4 trillion-yuan ($600 billion) stimulus
package pumped up growth during the financial crisis.  Zhou Cites Risks  Central bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said China will face
increasing risks from excessive liquidity, inflation, asset
bubbles and non-performing loans after withstanding the test of
the financial crisis. His comments, published on the central
bank’s website today, were at an Oct. 18 conference in Shanghai,
co-hosted with the International Monetary Fund, on post-crisis
macro-prudential policy.  Pledges by China’s government to boost the construction of
public housing and speed the completion of stimulus projects may
help to put a floor under the nation’s growth. In addition, a
five-year plan for 2011 to 2015 will include investment in
infrastructure, especially in central and western regions, and
in emerging industries such as renewable energy.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. raised its estimate for China’s growth
this year to 10 percent from 9.8 percent after today’s data. It
increased a forecast for next year to 9 percent from 8.6 percent.
In contrast, the World Bank this week lowered a 2011 estimate to
8.5 percent from 8.7 percent. That would be the nation’s
smallest gain in almost a decade.  Mining companies  BHP Billiton Ltd.  and Rio Tinto Group,
carmaker Bayerische Motoren Werke AG and restaurant chain
operator YUM! Brands Inc. are relying on China’s industrial and
consumer demand as austerity measures and unemployment hamper
developed economies. The U.S. Federal Reserve said yesterday
that the American economy expanded at a “modest pace” in
September and early October.  -- Li Yanping ,  Zheng Lifei ,  Sophie Leung . With assistance from
 Jay Wang  and  Zhang Shidong . Editors:  Paul Panckhurst ,  Stephanie Phang .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Li Yanping  in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7568 or
 yli16@bloomberg.net 
 Zheng  Lifei in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560 or
 Lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  