-- China Has Ability to Hijack U.S. Military Data, Report Says
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2010-10-21T18:20:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/china-has-ability-to-hijack-u-s-military-data-report-says.html
China in the past year demonstrated
it can direct Internet traffic, giving the nation the capability
to exploit “hijacked” data from the U.S. military and other
sources, according to a new report.  Recent actions raise questions that “China might seek
intentionally to leverage these abilities to assert some level
of control over the Internet,” according to excerpts from the
final draft of an annual report by the  U.S.-China Economic and
Security Review Commission . “Any attempt to do this would
likely be counter to the interests of the United States and
other countries.”  On April 8,  China Telecom Corp. , the nation’s third-largest
mobile-phone  company , instructed U.S. and other foreign-based
Internet servers to route traffic to Chinese servers, the report
said. The 18-minute re-routing included traffic from the U.S.
military, the Senate and the office of Defense Secretary  Robert Gates .  “Although the commission has no way to determine what, if
anything, Chinese telecommunications firms did to the hijacked
data, incidents of this nature could have a number of serious
implications,” the report said. The re-routing showed how data
could be stolen and communications with websites could be
disrupted, the report said.  Chinese Denial  Wang Baodong , a spokesman for the Chinese Embassy in the
U.S., denied that China had any intention of using the
capability to harm the U.S. or other nations.  “Chinese laws strictly forbid hacking or any other illegal
activities that’ll compromise the legitimate interests of China
or any other countries,” he said in an e-mail.  The report reaches “unacceptable” conclusions, Wang said
in an interview. “The report was based on unfounded, groundless
information,” Wang said.  Created by Congress in 2000, the commission has been
documenting what China’s economic and military rise means for
the U.S. An October 2009  report   Northrop Grumman Corp.  prepared
for the commission detailed the importance the Chinese military
places on computer networks.  China’s Internet policies raised concerns in the Obama
administration after  Google Inc.,  owner of the world’s most
popular search engine, said in January it would stop censoring
search results in China following a security breach.  Shortly after Mountain View, California-based Google’s
announcement in January, Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said
perpetrators of cyber attacks such as the one made on Google
must face consequences.  The Chinese government repeatedly has said it wasn’t behind
the attacks on Google, which the company said originated in
China.  Decline in Attacks  The report also focuses on how China is interested in
stripping away the Internet’s anonymity.  China wants to create a system that would require people to
provide their given names and potentially other information to
gain access to the Internet, the report said, citing a Chinese
official’s speech.  The Chinese government has farmed out much of its
censorship activities to the private sector, such as  Baidu Inc. ,
which operates the country’s most popular search engine,
according to the report.  Executives at Beijing-based Baidu have criticized the
censorship, which they’re required to fund, the report said.  While the government’s strategy is to control as much of
the Chinese Internet dialogue as possible, it’s been
“selectively responsive” to grievances aired on the Web,
giving citizens a sense of empowerment, the report said.  The commission’s report also said that 2010 “could be the
first year in a decade” the Defense Department recorded a
decline in attacks against its computer networks. The department
said the decrease is the result of pre-emptive measures it’s
taken to thwart attacks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Bliss  in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net 
 Tony Capaccio  in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  