-- China Metal Demand ‘Robust’ as Cities, Factories Grow, Rio Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-21T09:49:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/china-metal-demand-robust-as-cities-factories-grow-rio-says.html
China’s growth in metals demand will
be “robust,” even as economic expansion slows, as the country
builds more cities, homes and factories, said  Rio Tinto Group ,
the world’s third-largest mining company.  “It’s being driven by the fundamentals; urbanization,
industrialization,”  Ian Bauert , Rio Tinto’s China managing
director, said in an interview in Shanghai today. Reliance on
iron ore imports will climb as the costs of domestic production
increase, he said. China, the world’s largest user of iron ore,
copper and aluminum, represents about a quarter of Rio’s sales.  China’s  gross domestic product grew  9.6 percent in the
third quarter, the smallest gain in a year, as inflation in
September accelerated to the fastest pace in 23 months. The
country buys more than half the world’s iron ore exports and
purchases last month jumped to the highest level since April,
indicating measures to curb steel output haven’t damped demand.  Over five years or more, “what we’ve seen in most of our
commodities is demand growing at or above GDP, over those sorts
of timeframes, and that’s what we expect to continue,” Bauert
said. “With the policy-induced slowdown, we’d anticipate that
maybe some of those growth rates might come back to GDP, but
still be pretty robust.”  Economic growth  has moderated from 11.9 percent in the
first quarter as officials rein in credit growth, clamp down on
speculation in the housing market and chase goals to cut energy
use and pollution. Power limits on steelmakers may cut supplies
by 9.6 percent for the rest of this year, according to Mysteel
Research Institute.  Imports Fall  China will build 10 cities larger than New York by 2025 and
need to import more steel, iron ore, coal, aluminum and copper,
Rio’s Chief Economist  Vivek Tulpule  said this month. Economic
growth will reach 10 percent in 2011, the Caijing Magazine said,
citing a report issued by the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences.  “The urbanization process has still got a long way to
go,” Bauert said today.  Iron ore imports fell 2.5 percent to 460 million tons in
the first nine months, according to customs  data . Shipments
soared 42 percent last year to a record 628 million tons as the
government’s $586 billion stimulus package revived demand for
steel used in construction and vehicles. Declining grades of
domestic ore may encourage increased imports, Bauert said.  “China has a fairly large domestic iron ore supply but the
costs in that sector are reasonably high compared to the cost of
imports,” Bauert said. Chinese ore grades are about 25 percent
iron content, compared with about 60 percent in ore from
Australia, requiring additional costs to concentrate, Bauert
said. Imports are forecast by the China Iron and Steel
Association to be the same as last year or decline.  Expansion  “We’d anticipate that iron ore imports as a percent of
total demand here would grow relative to domestic,” he said,
without giving an estimate. Rio is the world’s second-biggest
exporter of iron ore after Rio de Janeiro-based  Vale  SA.  Rio approved a $3.1 billion expansion of its Australian
iron ore operations this week after scrapping a joint venture
with BHP Billiton Ltd. to combine their ore mines. The company
is seeking to meet demand from steel mills in China, where usage
of the alloy is forecast to double by 2020 from 2008 levels.  China may reduce imports this year for the first time since
1998 as government measures to curb speculation in property trim
demand, according to Mysteel. The central bank unexpectedly
raised borrowing costs, starting yesterday, for the first time
since 2007, lifting the  benchmark  one-year lending rate to 5.56
percent from 5.31 percent, and the deposit rate to 2.5 percent
from 2.25 percent. Inflation was 3.6 percent in September, up
from 3.5 percent in August.  -- Helen Yuan ,  Helen Sun . Editors:  Richard Dobson ,  Keith Gosman ,
 James Poole   To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story: Helen Yuan in
Shanghai at   hyuan@bloomberg.net ; Helen Sun
in Shanghai at   hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net 
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  