-- China Fear of Echoing Post-Plaza Japan Limits `Hyundai Accord'
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2010-10-21T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/china-goal-to-avoid-japan-plaza-legacy-wards-against-g-20-hyundai-accord-.html
China’s reluctance to deliver
“shock therapy” through a faster appreciation of the yuan may
be a bid to avoid repeating history: Japan’s.  As Group of 20 finance chiefs begin talks today in
Gyeongju, South Korea, China is deflecting foreign pressure to
fast-track the yuan’s gains after limiting them to about 2
percent against the dollar since a June vow to embrace more
flexibility.  Chinese officials link their resistance against an even
quicker rise to fears it would hurt their economy the same way
Japan’s sank after 1985’s Plaza Accord shot the yen higher. As
Ministry of Commerce spokesman  Yao Jian  said Oct. 15, that
“rapid currency appreciation led exports to plunge,
unemployment and economic slowdown” and easier interest rates
which caused asset bubbles.  “There are uncomfortable similarities” between 1980s
Japan and modern China, said  Ronald McKinnon , who teaches
economics at Stanford University in California and whose 1997
 book  “Dollar and Yen” was published in China at the urging of
former People’s Bank of China official  Li Ruogu . “Chinese
officials have read about Japan so they know what happened.”  ‘Sound Bites’  That means the G-20 meeting will conclude tomorrow with
“lots of sound bites” about cooperating and no pledge to
intervene, leaving the yuan to a “modest appreciation” to 6.55
per dollar at the end of this year and 6.20 at the end of next
year, said  Mansoor Mohi-uddin , the Singapore-based head of
global currency strategy at UBS AG, the world’s second biggest
currency trader. The yuan traded at 6.65 yesterday.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and People’s
Bank of China Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  are among the G-20’s
finance ministers and central bankers crafting an agenda for the
Nov 11-12 summit of leaders in Seoul.  They will agree to avoid “competitive undervaluation” of
their currencies, according to an official from a G-20 country,
citing a draft of their statement to be released tomorrow. The
U.S. is pushing the G-20 to agree on a statement of cooperation
on exchange-rate issues, either this weekend or in Seoul, a U.S.
official said.  Tensions have escalated amid concern policy makers are
looking to weaker currencies to fuel growth by spurring exports.
China is accused of undervaluing the yuan, while a shift toward
even easier monetary policy in the U.S. and other industrial
nations is blamed for depressing their exchange rates. Caught in
the middle are emerging markets with floating currencies, such
as Brazil and South Korea, which are resorting to intervention
or capital controls to remain competitive.  Chinese Expansion  Pressure grew on China to let the yuan rise more rapidly as
data yesterday showed its economy expanded 9.6 percent in the
third quarter and inflation accelerated to the fastest pace in
almost two years. China’s central bank unexpectedly raised
interest rates this week for the first time since 2007.  Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  said Oct. 19 that
officials must strike a “grand bargain” to rebalance the world
economy while questioning whether the G-20 would rise to the
challenge. South African Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said
the same day there is a “serious danger of competitive
devaluations” and “if we continue on this road, it will result
in a trade war.”  New Accord  The friction is prompting calls for a new version of the
 Plaza Accord , an agreement signed by the Group of Five to weaken
the dollar.  Charles Dallara , who helped write the agreement and
is now managing director of the Washington-based Institute of
International Finance, told Bloomberg Television on Oct. 14 that
officials must “move past this bickering, unilateralism,
bilateralism and finger pointing which has unfortunately
characterized much of the last few weeks and try to find some
common ground on currencies.”  Douglas Borthwick , head of foreign-exchange trading at
Stamford, Connecticut-based Faros Trading, says there’s about a
50 percent chance of an agreement in which China sets a
timeframe to revalue the yuan by a specific amount.  “ China’s  the one in the driving seat here so it’s the one
that decides,” said Borthwick, who suggests any framework be
called the “Hyundai Accord” after the Gyeongju hotel the media
will gather in this week. Faros executes currency transactions
on behalf of hedge funds and institutional clients.  Japan’s Bubble  Japan’s experience nevertheless suggests history may not be
repeated this weekend. In Japan, those who believe the yen’s
rise following Plaza Accord lies behind Japan’s two decades of
weak growth subscribe to the view of “endaka fukyo” or “high
yen recession.” Following the Sept. 22 1985 deal, the yen
strengthened from about 240 per dollar to about 140 by the end
of the decade and then to near 83 by 1995.  As the currency rose, Japanese authorities tried to protect
the economy by easing monetary and fiscal policies, with the
Bank of Japan’s  discount rate  halving to 2.5 percent by 1987.
Such stimulus helped drive the  Nikkei 225  to almost 40,000 from
12,500, while property prices soared. When the Bank of Japan
started tightening monetary policy in 1989 the bubbles burst,
plunging the economy into two decades of rippling recessions and
deflation.  “It’s clear the yen’s appreciation dampened the nation’s
power and potential growth,” said  Susumu Kato , chief economist
for Japan at Credit Agricole CIB and CLSA in Tokyo. “The
stronger yen prompted Japanese companies to shift their
production overseas, limiting chances for investment and
employment at home.”  Not all agree, arguing Japan was also hobbled by failure to
rebalance the economy toward domestic consumption sooner, a
delay in raising interest rates until bubbles had formed, and
waiting too long to tackle banks with non-performing loans.  ‘Shock Therapy”  Japanese “financial companies were coping with a lot of
difficulties” other than the yen,  Toshihiko Fukui , the Bank of
Japan’s former governor, said in an Oct. 11 interview.  The debate now is whether China would repeat Japan’s
history if it let the yuan surge. Chinese central bank governor
Zhou Xiaochuan signaled such concern Oct. 8 when he said his
nation must avoid the “shock therapy” of excessive yuan
appreciation and that “very fast” gains probably wouldn’t end
global economic imbalances. Yuan gains of 20 percent to 40
percent would exacerbate Chinese unemployment and cause social
upheaval, according to Premier  Wen Jiabao .  “If we recall Japan’s economic policies in the 1980s, many
scholars and economists said that led to economic disorder and
it’s a lesson to take,” Ministry of Commerce spokesman Yao
said.  Trade Surplus  Japan’s experience suggests a stronger yuan wouldn’t
necessarily mean a lower  trade surplus  because investment in
China could decline if the country is viewed as more expensive,
said Stanford’s McKinnon. Financial companies would also
struggle to adapt to having to buy and hold more dollars, he
said.  Linking China to Japan of the late 1980s is a false
analogy, says  Michael Pettis , a finance professor at Peking
University. He notes the “real lesson from Japan for China” is
to strengthen domestic demand sooner and that once the currency
does rise not to resort to lower interest rates to spur
investment. Failure to heed that raises, not lessens, the
chances of a “lost decade” for China, says Pettis, who was
formerly a managing director of Bear Stearns Cos.  There are other reasons not to expect another currency
accord that’s backed with money, not least that governments now
wield less power in a market worth  $4 trillion  a day compared
with $1.7 trillion in 1998.  Louvre Accord  Such deals can also run out of control. The 1987 Louvre
Accord was required to reverse the dollar’s drop and U.S.
officials are unlikely to want a similar run on their currency
in case it spooks buyers of Treasuries.  An alternative may be for nations to begin setting targets
for their current-account balances as the U.S. proposes. Bank of
Canada Governor  Mark Carney  said Oct. 20 that the G-20 wants
mechanisms and timelines for greater currency flexibility.  China may still be moving in the direction of a rising
yuan, having allowed it to gain the most since 2005 in September
and rise by about 25 percent in five years. Since 1999, the
yuan’s performance has been the fourth best among 25 emerging
markets tracked by Bloomberg and the median forecast of 17
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News is for it to climb to 6.32
per dollar by the end of 2011.  If they are unable to get China to agree to strengthen the
yuan aggressively, fellow  G-20  countries might continue to take
action with their own currencies and implement capital controls
to try to compete until leaders meet next month.  “A new Plaza Accord of coordinated intervention seems
unlikely,” said Mohi-uddin. “That means unilateral actions
will continue and foreign exchange volatility will rise.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Kennedy  in Gyeongju, South Korea at
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  