-- China's Shenzhen Zhongjin Shuts Zinc, Lead Smelter After Toxic Leak Found
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-21T11:26:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/china-s-shenzhen-zhongjin-shuts-zinc-lead-smelter-after-toxic-leak-found.html
Shenzhen Zhongjin Lingnan Nonfemet
Co.,  China’s third-largest zinc producer, suspended output at
its Shaoguan smelter after authorities found that excessive
levels of thallium were discharged by the plant into a river.  Operations at the smelter were halted from today with the
stoppage estimated to reduce the company’s net earnings by about
27 million yuan ($4.1 million) a month, according to a company
 statement  to the Shenzhen stock exchange. The effects of the
toxic spill into the Beijiang River have been controlled and
measures have been taken to ensure the safety of drinking water,
the company said.  “Other production units under the company are operating
normally and it will take appropriate measures to seek a
resumption of output as early as possible,” it said in the
statement without elaborating.  Zinc gained as much as 2.7 percent to $2,505 a metric ton
on the London Metal Exchange, the highest price since April, and
traded at $2,490 by 7:03 p.m. in Shanghai. Trading of Zhongjin
shares was suspended today pending the announcement.  The Shaoguan smelter was slated to produce 350,000 tons of
lead and zinc this year, the statement said. That represents 83
percent of the company’s total 2010 output plan of 420,000 tons,
according to Bloomberg News calculations.  Thallium is a highly toxic byproduct metal collected in
residues from smelting copper, zinc and lead ores and is used in
specialized glass and radiation detection equipment, according
to the  U.S. Geological Survey.   Worst Polluter  China, the world’s worst polluter, needs to spend at least
2 percent of gross domestic product a year -- 680 billion yuan
at 2009 figures -- to clean up 30 years of industrial waste,
according to He Ping, chairman of the Washington-based
International Fund for China’s Environment.  Fujian-based  Zijin Mining Group Co. , China’s largest gold
producer, was forced to shut a copper plant and limit production
at a gold mine in eastern China’s Fujian province this year
after acid-laced waste spilled into a local river, killing
enough fish to feed 72,000 people for a year.  Authorities shut substandard smelters last year after
thousands of children were poisoned by lead, zinc and manganese
plants in Yunnan, Henan, Shaanxi and Hunan provinces.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  