-- China's Economic Growth Cools as Inflation Accelerates
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-21T02:16:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/chinese-economy-grows-9-6-slowest-pace-in-year-as-inflation-accelerates.html
China’s  economy  grew 9.6 percent in
the third quarter, the smallest gain in a year, as inflation
accelerated in September to the fastest pace in 23 months.   The increase in gross domestic product from a year earlier
topped economists’ median 9.5 percent  estimate . Consumer prices
rose 3.6 percent last month, the statistics bureau said at a
briefing in Beijing. That matched the median forecast.  China’s interest-rate increase two days ago, the first
since 2007, highlighted the government’s confidence in the
nation’s recovery and concern at asset-bubble and  inflation 
risks. The strength of the economy may determine how much the
government allows the yuan to gain as international tensions
build over currency interventions, a topic to be discussed by
Group of 20 officials meeting from tomorrow in South Korea.  “Tuesday’s rate hike confirms our view that policy makers
have become more comfortable with growth after a policy-induced
slowdown,”  Chang Jian , a Hong Kong-based chief China economist
at Barclays Capital, said before today’s release.  Industrial output  rose 13.3 percent in September from a
year earlier, the statistics bureau said. That compared with a
13.9 percent gain in August and the median 14 percent estimate
in a Bloomberg News survey of 23 economists.  September inflation compared with a 3.5 percent increase in
prices in August from a year earlier. Second-quarter economic
growth was 10.3 percent.  Stocks Decline  The  Shanghai Composite Index , which this month entered a
so-called bull market, fell 0.5 percent as of 10:10 a.m. local
time. The yuan was little changed against the dollar.  Policy makers have grappled this year with rising consumer
prices and record property-price gains after record  lending  and
a 4-trillion yuan ($600 billion) stimulus package pumped up
growth during the financial crisis. The nation’s  foreign
exchange-reserves  jumped last quarter to $2.65 trillion,
highlighting the risk that an excess of cash in the financial
system will fuel inflation.  Economic growth has moderated from 11.9 percent in the
first quarter as officials rein in credit growth, clamp down on
speculation in the housing market and chase energy-efficiency
and pollution targets.  Urban fixed asset investment gained 24.5 percent in the
first nine months of 2010 from a year earlier. That compared
with economists’ 24.6 percent median estimate.  Steering ‘Middle Course’  Retail sales rose 18.8 percent in September from a year
earlier, the bureau said. Producer price inflation cooled to 4.3
percent.  Policy makers seem to be steering the Chinese economy on
“a middle course between overheating and a sharp downturn,”
 Brian Jackson , an emerging-market strategist at Royal Bank of
Canada, said this week.  The rate increase followed a decision in June to scrap a
crisis policy of pegging the yuan to the dollar to aid exporters.
Since then the Chinese currency has gained about 2.6 percent.
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  wants more, arguing
this week that the yuan remains “significantly undervalued, more
so than is true of any major, significant emerging-market
currency.”  The yuan declined by the most in two months yesterday to
close at 6.6519 per dollar.  Liu Li-Gang , a Hong Kong-based
economist at Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., said
yesterday that the economy can withstand appreciation,
forecasting the currency will gain another 3 percent against the
dollar by year-end and 5 percent in 2011.  Relying on China  Mining companies  BHP Billiton Ltd.  and Rio Tinto Group,
carmaker Bayerische Motoren Werke AG and restaurant chain
operator YUM! Brands Inc. are relying on China’s industrial and
consumer demand as austerity measures and unemployment hamper
developed economies. The U.S. Federal Reserve said yesterday
that the American economy expanded at a “modest pace” in
September and early October.  Pledges by China’s government to boost the construction of
public housing and speed the completion of stimulus projects may
help to set a floor under the nation’s growth. In addition, a
five-year plan for 2011 to 2015 will include investment in
infrastructure, especially in central and western regions, and
in emerging industries such as renewable energy.  The World Bank this week lowered its outlook for the
economic expansion next year in China and across East Asia.
China’s 2011 growth forecast was cut to 8.5 percent from an
April estimate of 8.7 percent. That would be the least in almost
a decade.  China should tolerate slower growth as the nation adjusts
its economic model, labor costs rise and trade protectionism
worsens, government economist  Zhu Baoliang  wrote this week in
the overseas edition of the official People’s Daily.  The nation’s “potential” growth rate is moderating to
around 9 percent from an average pace of 11 percent in the past
five years and 10 percent in the past three decades, said Zhu,
chief economist at the State Information Center.  -- Li Yanping ,  Zheng Lifei . With assistance from  Jay Wang .
Editors: Paul  Panckhurst ,  Ken McCallum .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Li Yanping  in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7568 or
 yli16@bloomberg.net 
 Zheng  Lifei in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560 or
 Lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  