-- Chinese Ratings Company Dagong Ranks Austria's Debt Lower Than Hong Kong's
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-21T06:27:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/chinese-ratings-company-dagong-ranks-austria-s-debt-lower-than-hong-kong-s.html
Dagong Global Credit Rating Co. , the
Chinese firm seeking to become an alternative to Standard &
Poor’s, Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings, graded
Austria’s government debt lower than that of Hong Kong.  Austria is rated AA+, Dagong’s second-highest ranking and a
step below Hong Kong’s top AAA grade, the Beijing-based company
said in an e-mailed statement today. Austria, Europe’s 14th-
biggest economy, has the highest ratings from Moody’s, S&P and
Fitch, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Austria’s “financial strength has noticeably decreased.
The export destination structure which relies heavily on the
internal market of the eurozone encumbers its economic growth,”
Dagong said in the statement.  Ratings by companies such as S&P, Moody’s and Fitch came
under regulatory scrutiny after subprime mortgage securities
with top grades helped fuel the worst financial crisis since the
Great Depression. Pressure increased in Europe after Greece’s
rating was cut to junk by S&P in April, adding urgency to plans
to bail out the debt-plagued nation.  The current system has “flaws,” though rating companies
can also “play an important and positive role,” the
International Monetary Fund said in its Global Financial
Stability report on Sept. 29.  Dagong gave China’s government a higher debt rating than
the U.S., U.K. and Japan in a report covering 50 nations it
published in July. The Securities and Exchange Commission turned
down the firm’s request to become an approved U.S. debt rating
service last month, in part because it couldn’t ensure the
company would comply with U.S. reporting rules, which include
the ability to carry out on-site inspections.  Closely held Dagong issued nine new sovereign ratings, it
said in today’s statement, taking its total to 59.  Hong Kong’s top rating is higher than the AA+ it has from
S&P, its AA from Fitch and its Aa2 from Moody’s. China’s
political stability and the “optimistic outlook” for its
economy support the ranking, Dagong said.  -- Henry Sanderson . Editors:  Will McSheehy ,  Hugh Chow   To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Henry Sanderson  in Beijing at 86-10-6649-7548 or
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  