-- China's Stock Rally `Still Has Legs' as Economy Surprises, Yoshikami Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-27T08:01:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/china-interest-rate-boost-may-take-hot-air-out-of-stocks-aberdeen-says.html
This month’s rally in China’s stocks
“still has legs” as the nation’s economic growth exceeds
expectations and the world avoids a double-dip recession, said
 Michael Yoshikami , investment strategist at YCMNet Advisors.  The  Shanghai Composite Index  has jumped 13 percent since
the end of September, the most among 89 benchmark gauges tracked
globally by Bloomberg. Gains have slowed since China raised
borrowing costs on Oct. 19 for the first time since 2007 as
policy makers sought to avert an asset-price bubble. The stock
index slid 1.5 percent to 2,997.05 at the 3 p.m. close.  October’s gains by the Shanghai Composite have been
“pretty incredible,” Yoshikami, who oversees about $1 billion
at Walnut Creek, California-based YCMNet, said in a phone
interview today. “While it can’t continue to rally as we have
seen, it still has legs.”  Yoshikami, who was named by Barron’s as one of the Top 100
Independent Financial Advisors for 2009, said he was optimistic
about Chinese stocks because the global economy will avoid a
recession and experience “tepid” recovery instead. He joins
Aberdeen’s Asset Management Plc’s  Nicholas Yeo  in saying the
unexpected increase in interest rates underscored policy makers’
confidence in the recovery.  “Yes, China has risks from rates going up but they would
not be raising rates” if not for the economy’s strength,
Yoshikami said. “China is growing more than people think.”  Economic Growth  China’s economy grew 9.6 percent in the third quarter,
exceeding economists’ median 9.5 percent estimate and slowing
from the previous quarter’s 10.3 percent expansion.  Bank of America-Merrill Lynch raised its estimate for
Chinese economic growth in the fourth quarter to 9.3 percent
from 9 percent, according to an e-mailed report distributed
today. Citing the economy’s outlook, Moody’s Investors Service
on Oct. 8 put the nation’s debt rating on review for a possible
upgrade.  The People’s Bank of China Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  raised
the benchmark one-year lending and deposit rates by a quarter of
a percentage point to 5.56 percent and 2.5 percent, respectively.  Yoshikami, who invests in Chinese exchange traded funds,
said he likes consumer companies and is cautious on property
developers and banks.  “China’s banks have the issue of property risk,” he said.
There’s not a risk of a collapse but a risk of a correction but
not like what happened in both the U.S. and Europe.”  Property Prices  Policy makers have grappled this year with record property-
price gains after  record lending  and a 4-trillion yuan ($600
billion) stimulus package pumped up growth during the financial
crisis. The government has this year tightened down-payment
requirements, suspended loans for third-home purchases, and
pledged to speed trials of a property tax. Nomura Holdings Inc.
predicts average residential prices may fall as much as 10
percent by the end of next year.  Yoshikami said this year’s rally for emerging markets is
“‘justified” given the economic outlook for developing nations
relative to the West.  “The gains are justified when you have a growth rate that
is five times larger than the U.S.,” he said. “Why shouldn’t
their assets be priced more expensively.”  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  has gained 12 percent this
year as investors sought higher yields amid near-zero interest
rates in the U.S. and Japan. Emerging-market equity mutual funds
attracted more than $60 billion this year and bond funds lured
$41 billion, both on track for record annual inflows, according
to data compiled by EPFR Global, a Cambridge, Massachusetts-
based research firm.  -- Allen Wan . With assistance from  Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai.
Editors:  Richard Frost , Linus Chua   To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Allen Wan in Shanghai at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  