-- Christie Denies New Jersey Taxpayers $3.4 Billion Insisting Money Is Saved
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   D u n s t a n   M c N i c h o l
-- 2010-10-21T16:25:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/christie-denies-new-jersey-taxpayers-3-4-billion-insisting-money-is-saved.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie ,
who says he’s trying to save money for residents with the
highest U.S. tax burden, may cost them $3.4 billion in federal
funding that would have improved schools and eased congestion.  The first-term Republican this month halted the nation’s
largest mass-transit project, a tunnel under the Hudson River,
saying residents couldn’t afford overruns on its $8.7 billion
cost, even with the federal government pitching in $3 billion.
In August, Christie’s administration lost $400 million in U.S.
education funds because of an error on a grant application.  Christie is campaigning to fix the finances of a state that
has battled nine straight deficits and a $46 billion
underfunding of its pension system. He has slashed aid to towns,
trains and schools and criticized public-employee unions. The
48-year-old former prosecutor has become a Republican star,
campaigning for candidates in Pennsylvania, Connecticut and
Maryland, and won a Virginia Tea Party straw poll for president.  “How many times will the people of New Jersey lose out on
federal money so that our governor can score political points?”
Senate Majority Leader  Barbara Buono , a Metuchen Democrat, said
at an Oct. 19 rally of more than 200 construction workers at the
tunnel site in North Bergen.  Christie has said overspending led to the budget crisis. He
faced a record $10.7 billion deficit this fiscal year, more than
a third of his $29.4 billion budget. The governor said he is
being responsible by not allowing the state to foot the bill for
overruns on the Hudson River rail tunnel, whose cost may balloon
to $14 billion.  Two-Week Delay  The governor killed the project Oct. 7, and then agreed to
delay a final decision until tomorrow, at U.S. Transportation
Secretary  Ray LaHood’s  request. Christie told reporters Oct. 18
he was content to walk away from the tunnel unless someone else
agrees to pay for cost overruns. He said today he hasn’t
reversed his decision.  “I don’t care how much people want a tunnel to New York,
we don’t have the money for that,” Christie said at a town-hall
meeting in Scotch Plains. “Here’s the promise I will make, I’m
not going to stick you with that bill.”  Biggest Project  The tunnel is the nation’s most important infrastructure
project measured by the number of passengers who would use it,
said  Robert Yaro , president of the Regional Plan Association, a
New York-based transit-advocacy group. Yaro and  Martin Robins ,
the project’s original director, who now heads Rutgers
University’s  Alan M. Voorhees Transportation Center  in New
Brunswick, said they’ve never heard of any state turning down
that much federal money.  About $600 million has been spent on the project, which
broke ground last year under former Governor  Jon Corzine , 63, a
Democrat.  “It’s unparalleled, and it is very troubling,” Robins
said. “It seems to me it is on the verge of recklessness.”  National Campaign  Democrats, who control the state Legislature and New
Jersey’s two U.S. Senate seats, have called Christie’s move one
of the worst a governor has ever made. Assemblyman  John Wisniewski , chairman of the Democratic State Committee, said
Christie is acting to gain fame at the expense of New Jersey.  “Chris Christie is pursuing a rigid conservative agenda
and hurting New Jersey residents, all so he can enjoy national
media attention,” Wisniewski said in an Oct. 19 e-mail to
supporters.  Wisniewski, who also heads the Assembly transportation
committee, said Christie’s real motive for halting the tunnel is
to free money for the state’s depleted highway fund and avoid
raising the 10.5-cents-per-gallon gasoline tax. Christie has
said the tunnel and road-fund issues are separate.  The tunnel decision came the same day that Christie’s
ousted education commissioner,  Bret Schundler , 51, testified to
state lawmakers that New Jersey lost the U.S. Education
Department’s Race to the Top competition partly due to the
governor. Christie didn’t want to be seen as surrendering to the
teachers union in a dispute over whether performance should
matter in job cuts, Schundler said.  Teachers Union  Christie scrapped a compromise that won the New Jersey
Education Association’s endorsement of the bid after a radio
host accused him of “caving in” to the union, Schundler
testified. That failure to agree with educators cost New Jersey
at least 14 points of the 500 possible in the competition, said
Schundler, a former Jersey City mayor and two-time Republican
candidate for governor.  The governor “said that the leaders of the NJEA had
demeaned him and that it was utterly intolerable for him to be
viewed as having given in to them; the money was not worth it,”
Schundler said in a written copy of his testimony. He didn’t
return phone messages left at his home.  Schundler has acknowledged making an editing mistake that
cost the state 4.8 points on its application. New Jersey lost by
3 points, which let Ohio qualify as the last of 10 states to win
a share of the grants. Christie fired Schundler after the error,
saying Schundler misled him.  Salary Costs  Christie has said reducing school pay and administrative
costs would help control property-tax  bills  that averaged $7,281
last year, the highest in the nation.  Teachers in the state received an average salary of $63,111
in the 2008-2009 school year, compared with the national average
of $54,319, according to  data  from the National Education
Association. New Jersey’s state and local tax burden is also the
highest, with residents paying 11.8 percent of their income in
2008, according to the Washington-based  Tax Foundation .  Christie has said he won’t raise taxes to help close a
deficit that the nonpartisan Office of Legislative Services has
projected may be as high as $10.5 billion next fiscal year. The
governor plans to lower New Jersey’s income taxes during his
term, as he continues to reduce state spending.  The original tunnel agreement that Christie rejected called
for the federal government and Port Authority of New York and
New Jersey to each give $3 billion, and New Jersey to pay $2.7
billion, plus any overrun costs.  For Decades  State and federal officials have been discussing the tunnel
for decades. The 8.8-mile (14.2-kilometer) conduit was meant to
double the number of commuter trains to New York during peak
times. It would reduce round-trip commutes by as much as 30
minutes, and boost the value of homes near transit stations by
$18 billion, according to the Regional Plan Association.  Christie said he doesn’t want a repeat of Boston’s Big Dig,
the most expensive public-works project in U.S. history. The
work, which replaced an elevated highway with tunnels, was
estimated to cost $5 billion when ground was broken. It tripled
to $14.8 billion after overruns and structural problems.  Christie is making tough decisions to fix the problems
created after eight years of Democratic control of the
governor’s office, said Assemblyman  Joseph Malone , a Republican
from Bordentown in central New Jersey.  “Somebody has to take charge, and that someone’s going to
get criticized,” Malone said in an Oct. 18 telephone interview.  Malone said he has heard little outrage outside the tunnel
area over Christie’s decision to kill it. Malone said his
constituents would rather their governor use financial prudence.  A Commuter’s Stand  Concern over budgets prompted Moody’s Investors Service to
put a negative outlook on the state’s Aa2 rating, the third
highest, in September, according to the company. New Jersey’s
10-year bonds traded to yield 38 basis points higher than
generic AAA-rated general obligation bonds, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, as investors want a premium for the debt.
The state’s yield was as much as 64 basis points above generic
bonds Sept. 9, the data show. A basis is 0.01 percentage point.  Fifty-one percent of New Jersey voters approved of Christie
in a  poll  of 831 registered voters conducted Oct. 4-10 by
Fairleigh Dickinson University’s PublicMind. The poll, which had
an error margin of 3.5 percentage points, was his best measure
since early March. That was before he proposed a budget that cut
$1.2 billion in aid to towns and schools. New Jersey Transit in
May raised fares an average of 22 percent after Christie cut the
agency’s state subsidy to fill a budget hole.  “I understand about budgets and how the economy is tight,
but you have to look into the future,” said Newell Anderson,
55, a registered Republican from Princeton who has faced a
“commute from hell” on trains to New York this year.  “I’m paying $425 a month to stand all the way to New
York?” Anderson said. “I’ve got a problem with that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
 Dunstan McNichol  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 dmcnichol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  