-- Citadel Says Kurtzman to Run Equity Derivatives as Co-Head Boyle Leaves
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2010-10-21T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/citadel-says-kurtzman-to-run-equity-derivatives-as-co-head-boyle-leaves.html
Ken Griffin ’s $11 billion Citadel
LLC named  Brad Kurtzman  sole head of equity derivatives in the
securities unit after co-head  James Boyle  left yesterday, said
 Devon Spurgeon , a Citadel spokeswoman.  Boyle, who joined the Chicago-based firm last year, is at
least the third former Merrill Lynch executive to leave the
securities unit in the past year.  Todd Kaplan , the former head
of investment banking, left in January, less than a year after
joining.  Rohit D’Souza , who ran Citadel Securities, quit a year
ago after seven months in the role.  Separately, Citadel Securities plans to fire 12 people in
sales and trading, a person briefed on the plans said yesterday.
The layoffs, which will be made this week, represent about 5
percent of the sales and trading group, said the person, who
asked not to be named because the information is private.
Spurgeon declined to comment on the dismissals.  Griffin started the securities unit to expand his hedge-
fund firm by underwriting and trading stocks and bonds and
advising corporations on mergers and acquisitions.  Patrik Edsparr , who succeeded D’Souza, was ousted in May, seven months
after Griffin picked him for the position.  Merrill Lynch Veteran  Citadel Securities reported earnings of $81.6 million on
revenue of $1.01 billion last year, most of which came from
Citadel’s nine-year-old options and equities market-making
business, according to financial statements filed Feb. 25 with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Citadel Securities, which Griffin started in 2008, has
about 500 clients trading contracts worth more than $1 billion a
week, Spurgeon said. The firm started offering research to
clients last month covering more than 20 companies in the
telecommunications, gaming and lodging industries, she said.  Citadel plans to have a team of 12 senior analysts by the
middle of next year covering industries including health care,
financial services and technology, Spurgeon said. Citadel
Securities is also hiring within its fixed income and equities
businesses, she said.  Boyle joined Citadel from Bank of America Corp., which in
January 2009 bought Merrill Lynch & Co., where Boyle worked for
13 years and was global head of equity derivatives trading.  Kurtzman, who ran equity derivatives at Citadel Securities
with Boyle, also  joined  Citadel last year from Bank of America
and had worked at Merrill Lynch for eight years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Saijel Kishan  in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  