-- Citigroup Restores Singapore Equity Sales Rank on Property Initial Offers
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2010-10-21T09:32:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/citigroup-restores-singapore-equity-sales-rank-on-property-ipos.html
Citigroup Inc.  restored its position
in Singapore equity sales this year after a two-year slump as
the combination of the corporate and investment banking units
helped it win work on the biggest initial public offerings.  The lender boosted its market share in underwriting equity
offerings to 17.2 percent this year, its best showing in 11
years, from 2.8 percent in 2008, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Citigroup, based in New York, rose to second place in
the league table from 12th over the same period, behind  DBS
Group Holdings Ltd.  Citigroup also ranked second in 2007.  Singapore companies have raised $6.3 billion in IPOs and
secondary share sales this year, the most since 2007 and making
the island-nation the biggest market in Southeast Asia.
Citigroup’s Singapore team, led by head of global banking  Tracey Woon , worked on this year’s two biggest IPOs,  Global Logistic
Properties Ltd.  and Mapletree Industrial Trust.  “It’s amazing how just two years ago Citi was fighting for
their survival,” said  Richard Lai , chief executive officer of
 Mapletree Logistics Trust , which hired the bank this year as
sole underwriter for a private share placement. “Sometimes
surviving through a crisis helps galvanize a team.”  Citigroup Turnaround  Citigroup, the third-largest U.S. bank, had to get a $45
billion taxpayer bailout in 2008 as mortgage losses swelled.
That followed writedowns on subprime mortgages and related
securities that had led to the ouster of CEO  Charles O. “Chuck”  Price in late 2007. The Asian unit remained profitable
during the crisis, Woon said.  CEO  Vikram Pandit  said this week that Citigroup may return
capital to owners in 2012 after earnings beat analyst estimates.  Global Logistic, which raised S$3.45 billion ($2.65 billion)
and jumped 11 percent in its Oct. 18 trading debut, is the
eighth-biggest IPO globally this year.  Mapletree Industrial Trust, which raised S$939 million and
began trading today, ranks fifth in developed Asian markets this
year. It  surged  25 percent to S$1.16 from the 93-cent sale price.  Citigroup, as global coordinator with  JPMorgan Chase & Co. 
for the Global Logistic IPO, earned 2.25 percent in underwriting
fees, while it earned 1.75 percent in fees as one of the
underwriters for Mapletree’s IPO.  “Banks here don’t really compete on price, so it’s really
all about their relationship management with these public and
private firms,” said  Melvyn Teo , associate professor of finance
at Singapore Management University.  Global Logistic is the overseas warehousing unit of
 Government of Singapore Investment Corp.  and Mapletree is
controlled by state investment company  Temasek Holdings Pte .  Customer View  “We have an extremely stable team,” Citigroup’s Woon said
in an interview. “This is a team that has been together since I
joined Citi” in 2004, she said. Her team has 40 members.  Woon said Citigroup’s combination of its corporate and
investment banking units 18 months ago made it easier to offer
customers a full range of services. The move was a global push
to package products from deal advice to cash management and
loans services.  For Mapletree’s Lai, it was Citigroup’s ability to
integrate its processes from origination, corporate finance and
execution to syndicate, sales and research that helped the bank
“stand out from the competition.” He said Woon’s leadership
also played a part in clinching the deal.  “She has sound judgment which you can count on,” Lai said.
“It is very important for a client to be able to draw comfort
from the knowledge that she can work within the bank to get
things done.”  ‘Let It Cook’  Woon joined Citigroup from  Merrill Lynch & Co  in 2004 to
head its investment banking business for Singapore and Malaysia.
At Merrill, where she worked for nine years, Woon advised
Singapore’s  United Overseas Bank Ltd.  on its S$10 billion
takeover of smaller rival Overseas Union Bank Ltd. in 2001.  Sanjiv Misra , who was Woon’s boss when she joined the bank,
said Citigroup’s challenge was always about how to combine
corporate banking products with investment banking advice. Misra,
who resigned as head of Asia-Pacific corporate banking in 2008,
said a more localized reporting structure in recent years sped
up decisions and improved execution.  “You’ve got to put people in place and let it cook,” said
Misra, who’s now managing director of Phoenix Advisers Pte, a
Singapore-based advisory and investment firm he founded last
year. “It’s been cooking for a while then, all of a sudden, you
start seeing results.”  DBS, JPMorgan  DBS , which is 27.5 percent owned by Temasek, tops the
Singapore rankings of underwriting equity offerings with 21.1
percent of the market, rising from second place last year.  “We believe that our integrated approach to originating
and distributing our deals, coupled with strong client
relationship management, help to set us apart from the
competition,”  Kan Shik Lum , DBS’ head of equity capital markets,
said in an e-mail.  JPMorgan Chase has ranked in the top three in Singapore
equity deals since 2008, placing third this year, first in 2009
and second two years ago.  Property will continue to drive equity deals in Singapore
this year and next, said  David Douglas , Standard Chartered Plc’s
global head of equity capital market.  “The real estate and REIT sectors have been very active in
Singapore’s equity capital raising,” said Douglas, whose team
ranks sixth this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joyce Koh  in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Lars Klemming at   lklemming@bloomberg.net  