-- Citigroup to Top Venezuela Bond Ranks With $3 Billion PDVSA Debt Offering
-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l   a n d   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s
-- 2010-10-21T15:42:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/citigroup-tops-venezuela-bond-ranks-with-3-billion-pdvsa-deal.html
Citigroup Inc.  is set to overtake
 Deutsche Bank AG  and  Credit Suisse Group AG  as the top
underwriter of Venezuelan debt this year after managing state
oil company  Petroleos de Venezuela SA’s  $3 billion bond sale.  PDVSA’s offering is the biggest by a company in Venezuela
this year and allows New York-based Citigroup to move to No. 1
in the bond rankings for the first time in the country,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Deutsche Bank and
Credit Suisse are tied for second place at $1.5 billion each
after co-managing an August government debt sale.  The oil producer and President  Hugo Chavez  are stepping up
bond sales as PDVSA finances exploration projects, while the
government seeks dollars for importers struggling with currency
constraints and to pay for social programs. The presence of a
local investment team in Venezuela helped Citigroup secure the
PDVSA transaction, said  Russell Dallen , head bond trader at
Caracas Capital Markets at BBO Financial Services in Miami.  “It’s about rotation, institutional sponsorship, who has
more access to institutional money or made the best pitch,”
 Carlos Fuenmayor , executive director of investment bank
BancTrust & Co., said in a phone interview in Caracas.  Deutsche Bank, Germany’s biggest bank, and Credit Suisse,
Switzerland’s second-largest bank, declined to comment on the
PDVSA deal and underwriting rankings in Venezuela.  Government Debt Sale  Citigroup and Deutsche Bank shared the top spot in
Venezuelan underwriting last year after co-leading a $5 billion
government sale of securities maturing in 2019 and 2024.
Citigroup hadn’t managed a Venezuelan government bond sale since
2005 before that.  Venezuelan bond sales are set to fall this year from the
$11.3 billion of securities sold in 2009 after a plunge in oil
revenue.  The extra yield investors demand to own Venezuelan
government bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell 17 basis
points, or 0.17 percentage points, today to 1137, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ index. The government’s  average
dollar-bond yield  rose 10 basis points to 13.75.  PDVSA brought in Citigroup, the third-biggest U.S. bank by
revenue, to sell $3 billion of bonds maturing in 2017 and
oversee a debt swap this month that may be worth up to $3
billion. PDVSA, the world’s fourth-largest oil producer, last
hired an overseas investment bank in 2007 when it issued $7.5
billion of securities with ABN Amro Bank NV.  2009 Delays  The $3 billion bond sale will be Citigroup’s largest issue
in emerging-market countries since at least 2007, when the
company handled a $1.5 billion debt offering by the Peruvian
government, according to Bloomberg data.  Citigroup may have been hired after Caracas-based PDVSA
sold $6.3 billion of bonds with the  central bank  last year and
faced delays registering the securities with settlement agencies
without the assistance of an underwriter, said Dallen.  The 2017 bonds will also be sold under New York law, which
requires an investment bank and will help lower borrowing costs,
said  Asdrubal Oliveros , director of economic research at
Ecoanalitica in Caracas.  “PDVSA didn’t want to repeat their strategy from last
year, when they sold bonds under local law at a discount and had
a tough time selling them abroad,” Oliveros said. “That’s why
they hired a foreign bank to register the bonds in the
international market.”  PDVSA President  Rafael Ramirez  was traveling and
unavailable to comment for this story, said a company official,
who declined to be named in accordance with policy.  Investor Presentations  Citigroup organized presentations in London, New York and
Los Angeles to present PDVSA’s financial results and development
plans to investors, a PDVSA official who isn’t authorized to
speak publicly, said.  Anthony Ingham, a Citigroup spokesman, declined to comment.  “They’re definitely going all out,” Dallen said of
Citigroup. “This is the first roadshow that we’ve seen in some
time from Venezuela or PDVSA.”  Chavez and PDVSA are selling bonds in part to supply
dollars to importers amid controls implemented in 2003 to slow
capital flight. Currency and price controls have hindered
industrial production while nationalizations have dried up
foreign investment in the country.  PDVSA is also looking to finance crude exploration and
production projects with foreign partners to cut declining
output and tap the heavy oil of the Orinoco Belt.  Crude Exploration  The bond offering may rise to as much as $4.5 billion on
surging demand and after the central bank freed up more
liquidity in the financial industry by lowering reserve
requirements on Oct. 20, Oliveros said.  As Citigroup manages more debt sales in Venezuela,
Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank is the top underwriter of Latin
American international bonds this year with 13.5 percent of
market share for a total of 33 issues worth $9.95 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  JPMorgan  of New York is
second and Citigroup is sixth, before the PDVSA sale, with 7
percent of the market share for a total of 20 issues worth $5.18
billion.  “Our strategy across Latin America has been to reinforce
our debt capital markets effort to cover the region as a whole
better than the competition,”  Alberto Ardura , managing director
of debt capital markets for Latin America at Deutsche Bank, said
in a telephone interview from New York. “We have the highest
number of recurrent clients.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Daniel Cancel  in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net ;
 Corina Rodriguez Pons  in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  