-- Clarence Thomas’s Wife Dialed the Wrong Number: Ann Woolner
-- B y   A n n   W o o l n e r
-- 2010-10-21T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/clarence-thomas-s-wife-dialed-the-wrong-number-commentary-by-ann-woolner.html
Virginia Thomas ’s mistake wasn’t so
much that she looked up someone from her husband’s past to heal
lingering pain.  “I would love for you to consider an apology sometime and
some full explanation of why you did what you did with my
husband,” Thomas said on the phone message she left at  Anita Hill ’s office at Brandeis University.  Taking that call at face value, Virginia Thomas obviously
believes Hill lied when she testified that  Clarence Thomas 
relentlessly and vulgarly hit on her when he was her boss at the
very agency charged with protecting women against precisely that
sort of conduct.  It has been 19 years since Hill told the  Senate Judiciary
Committee  that Thomas, as chairman of the Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission in the 1980s, would speak to her
graphically of porn movies and pubic hair, sex organs and sex
with animals. He would urge her to go out with him, no matter
how often she said no.  Virginia Thomas’s error was in beginning and ending with a
single phone call. If she wants to set the record straight, she
should dial up other apparent perjurers, too.  She should ask them to clean their consciences of the lies
they fed the Senate Judiciary Committee in 1991 to try to keep
Thomas off the U.S.  Supreme Court  as puppets of the liberal
elite.  High on her call list should be Ellen M. Wells, a friend of
Hill’s who must have lied. She testified that Hill told her
about her harassing boss in 1982.  Recollections  So did Susan Hoerchner, another friend of Hill’s, who
 recounted  Hill’s discomfort over her boss’s unwillingness to
take no for an answer. He kept saying things like, “‘You know
I’m your kind of man, you just refuse to admit it,’” Hoerchner
said, recounting what Hill told her.  Then there was  John W. Carr , with whom Hill was involved in
a long distance relationship in 1983. According to his
 testimony , when he asked during one conversation what was
troubling her, Hill said her boss “was making sexual advances
toward her. I recall that she was clearly very disturbed by
these advances.”  Nor should the justice’s wife overlook  Joel Paul , a law
professor at American University. He told the committee that in
1987, when professors at the law school were interested in
recruiting Hill, he asked her why she’d left the EEOC.  She answered “reluctantly and with obvious emotion and
embarrassment, that she had been sexually harassed by her
superior,” Paul testified.  ‘Outcry’  When state prosecutors try to corroborate a claim of rape,
it helps if the victim made an “outcry,” or told someone of
the attack at the time that it happened. I don’t equate rape
with sexual come-ons, however unwanted. I mention it because in
both cases, an outcry can tip the scales for those trying to
decide whether to believe what she said instead of  what he said .  Perhaps it was all some sort of sexual fantasy that Hill
herself believed. That would explain all that outcrying. The
“nutty and slutty” theory was bandied about in the hearing,
too.  Or maybe it was just part of the liberal effort to deny
Thomas a seat on the  Supreme Court  where he could enshrine his
conservative views into high court precedent.  Oh, right. Hill worked in the  Reagan  administration and was
an outspoken defender of his views.  Well, it’s not as if other women came forward with stories
of Thomas’s sexual predation, right, Mrs. Thomas? Wrong.  Similar Story  Angela Wright, who had been Thomas’s press secretary at the
EEOC (and another conservative Republican)  told  the Senate staff
that Thomas had repeatedly pressured her for dates. He had asked
about her breast size and frequently commented on her body and
those of other women, she said. One night he showed up at her
apartment uninvited and unannounced, and again pressed her to go
out with him.  Wright, too, cried out. Rose Jourdain, another EEOC
employee, told  committee staff  that Wright had complained to her
about Thomas’s conduct.  Thomas had his defenders, too, some of whom tried to poke
holes in Hill’s testimony. It was an ugly, painful time for all
involved.  If I were Clarence Thomas’s wife and wanted to finally
clear the air, Hill wouldn’t have been my first call.  I’d first dial up Hoerchner, Wells, Carr, Paul, Wright and
Jourdain. I would probably also reach out to the men who knew
Thomas in college, law school and later, who confirmed to  book
authors  Thomas’s interest in pornography and his habit of
quipping about pubic hair.  They, too, corroborated Hill’s  characterization  of him.  Once all those other people admitted they lied, then I
would contact Hill and urge her to apologize.  Another Call  But if those others stuck to their guns and I still wanted
to clear the air, I would dial up  Anita Hill , anyway. This is
what I would say:  “Please consider my apology for what my husband did to you
when you were at the EEOC and when you came forward to tell the
truth about him.”  And if I were still speaking to my husband, I would tell
him to either apologize to Hill, too, or get over it.  Be satisfied, I would say. You won lifetime appointment to
the highest court in the land where you are a leader in the
movement to push American jurisprudence further to the right.  And one more thing. Be thankful that some people still
believe Anita Hill lied.  ( Ann Woolner  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ann Woolner in Atlanta at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  