-- Cnooc Said to Bid $5 Billion With GNPC for Kosmos Jubilee Stake
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n ,   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2010-10-22T17:55:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/cnooc-ghana-petroleum-said-to-offer-5-billion-for-kosmos-jubilee-stake.html
Cnooc Ltd. , China’s largest offshore
oil producer, and Ghana National Petroleum Corp. made a $5-
billion bid to buy Kosmos Energy LLC’s assets in the West
African country, including its stake in the Jubilee field,
according to three people with knowledge of the matter.  The all-cash, fully financed bid, the first from the Cnooc-
Ghana National group, was received about two weeks ago, said the
people, who declined to be identified as the talks are private.  The offer tops an earlier, failed bid of about $4 billion
from  Exxon Mobil Corp.  for the Kosmos assets, which include a
23.49 percent stake in Jubilee. The field holds an estimated 1.8
billion barrels of crude, enough to supply all U.S. East Coast
refineries for more than four years. State-owned Ghana National
also is holding preliminary talks with  Statoil ASA , seeking to
interest Norway’s largest oil company in becoming a third
partner in a Kosmos bid, said the people.  “Compared with the Exxons and the BPs, China’s oil
companies have a relatively short history in terms of operating
overseas and sometimes they have to pay a premium for the
quality assets that they want,” said  Wang Aochao , head of China
Energy Research at UOB-Kay Hian Ltd. in Shanghai. “Sellers know
that they have good financial support from the Chinese
government and the real desire to acquire these assets because
oil demand is growing very strongly in China.”  Stock Performance  Cnooc fell 0.9 percent in Hong Kong trading to HK$15.94,
while the Hang Seng index declined 0.6 percent. The stock has
gained 31 percent this year, outpacing the 8 percent advance in
the benchmark gauge.  Ghana National, which wants a Western company in the group,
is leading the talks with Statoil without its Chinese partner,
said one of those people.  BP Plc  had originally been part of the
group and backed out earlier this year to pursue other
investments, said people familiar with the matter.  Dallas-based Kosmos, which is backed by private-equity
firms Blackstone Group LP and Warburg Pincus LLP, is at the same
time working with Credit Suisse Group AG and Citigroup Inc. to
study a possible initial public offering of the assets, the
people said. A Credit Suisse spokesman declined to comment.
Citigroup couldn’t immediately be reached for comment.  Since Ghana National and Cnooc made their bid, there has
been little progress in the talks, said one of these people, as
Kosmos and its advisers also study the IPO as an alternative to
an outright sale.  IPO Pressure  Sellers typically line up an IPO to pressure a potential
buyer, said a person familiar with the deal. Any transaction
between the parties is at least several weeks away, this person
said.  “Statoil is considering opportunities around the world,
but we won’t comment on which ones specifically,” spokesman
Baard Glad Pedersen said on the phone from Stavanger yesterday.  Jim McCarthy, a spokesman for Kosmos, couldn’t immediately
comment.  Jiang Yongzhi , Cnooc’s Beijing-based spokesman,
declined to comment.  “Kosmos has stated they are staying on to pursue their
activities in Ghana, that is the situation,” said  Nana Asafu- Adjaye , managing director of Ghana National. He declined to
comment on whether Ghana National had bid with Cnooc.  Edward Bawa, spokesman for Ghana’s Energy Ministry, said he
would look into the matter and declined further comment.  Exxon Deal  Kosmos said on Oct. 12, 2009, it agreed to sell its
 Ghanaian assets , including the Jubilee stake, to Irving, Texas-
based Exxon. Kosmos also owns stakes in the Mahogany Deep, Odum,
Tweneboa and Teak prospects offshore Ghana.  The next day, Ghana National said it was still in talks
with Kosmos about acquiring the assets for itself. Kosmos and
Exxon canceled their deal in August.  Ghana, which is set to become Africa’s newest oil exporter
at the end of the year, may pump as much as 240,000 barrels of
oil from its offshore Jubilee field by 2014-15, Ghana National
Petroleum said this month. Ghana expects to pump 500,000 barrels
of oil a day by 2014.  U.K.-based  Tullow  Oil Plc, the field’s operator that holds
a 34.7 percent stake, and other partners including Ghana
National and Anadarko Petroleum Corp. are investing about $3.35
billion to develop the Jubilee field.  Anadarko rose $2.45, or 4.2 percent, to $61.24 as of 12:27
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Tullow, which
yesterday fell to the lowest in six weeks after an exploration
offshore well in Ghana failed to find oil, rose 0.7 percent, to
1,236 pence in London.  Cnooc’s Acquisitions  The Chinese oil explorer has said that overseas
acquisitions will help drive future growth. Record output helped
more than doubled profit in the first six months of this year,
with crude production outside China increased more than two
times to 17 million barrels during the period.  About 69 percent of Cnooc’s revenue comes from oil and gas
fields in China, according to the company’s annual report. The
energy producer has assets in Latin America, Nigeria, Kenya,
Indonesia and Australia. Chinese oil demand is expected to rise
27 percent to 11.63 million barrels a day by 2015, the
International Energy Agency said in June.  “This potential acquisition fits into Cnooc’s strategy,”
said Wang of UOB-Kay Hian. “This process of acquiring assets
overseas will continue, particularly in Africa and Latin
America, given China’s growing need for oil.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
 Brett Foley  in London at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeff St.Onge at   jstonge@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 