-- Coal India May Raise Maximum Amount in Nation's Largest Initial Offering
-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2010-10-21T11:55:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/coal-india-may-raise-maximum-amount-in-nation-s-largest-ipo.html
Coal India Ltd., the world’s biggest
producer of the fuel, may raise the maximum 151.5 billion rupees
($3 billion) sought in its initial public offer, according to
three people with direct knowledge of the matter.  Sale arrangers will advise the government to sell shares in
the state-run  company  at 245 rupees, the top end of the offered
range, the people said, declining to be identified because the
matter is confidential. A group of ministers will decide on the
price on Oct. 25, one of the people said. The IPO closes today.  Investors ordered at least $48 billion of stock in the
nation’s largest IPO on expectation Coal India will benefit from
surging fuel demand in the country, where 56 percent of power is
generated from coal. The funds may help Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government complete seven more offerings by March and
beat his record 400 billion rupee target for asset sales.  Coal India’s IPO cements  Kotak Mahindra Capital Co. ’s No. 1
ranking in managing first-time share sales in India in 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The offering may also
help the nation surpass 2007’s record 340 billion rupees in IPOs,
as initial sales have already raised 179 billion rupees this
year, the data show.  Citigroup Inc., Enam Securities Pvt.,  Deutsche Bank AG ,
Bank of America Corp. and  Morgan Stanley  also helped managed the
sale. Spokespeople at the six banks didn’t immediately reply to
e-mails seeking comment.  Partha S. Bhattacharyya , chairman of Coal India, didn’t
immediately respond to calls to his mobile phone.  Investors ordered 9.6 billion Coal India shares, or 15
times the 631.6 million shares on offer, according to data on
the National Stock Exchange’s website as of 4 p.m. local time.
The shares are being offered for 225 rupees to 245 rupees apiece.
Most of the bids came in at the high end of proposed range, the
people said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ruth David  in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  