-- Coffee Rises to 13-Year High on Crop Concerns; Cocoa Climbs
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-10-21T19:20:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/coffee-rises-to-13-year-high-in-new-york-on-brazil-colombia-crop-concern.html
Arabica coffee rose to a 13-year
high in New York and robusta coffee reached the highest level
since 2008 in London on concern that adverse weather in
producing countries is curbing supply. Cocoa climbed.  Wet weather in Asia is delaying the harvest and processing
of beans, said  Rodrigo Costa , the vice president of
institutional sales at Newedge USA LLC in New York. Rains in
Central America have also kept supplies from “flowing out of
the region,” he said. Colombia, the second-largest grower of
arabica, said on Oct. 15 that a fungus is damaging plants and
may reduce output next year.  “There are still big concerns” for South American crops,
said  Kona Haque , a London-based analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd.
“Every time you hear of any supply downgrade or production
disruption, that’s what’s causing prices to shoot up even more,
because there’s just no room for error. It’s going to remain a
volatile market.”  Arabica for December delivery rose 4.25 cents, or 2.2
percent, to settle at $2.01 a pound at 2 p.m. on ICE Futures
U.S. in New York. Earlier, prices reached $2.035, the highest
level for a most-active contract since Aug. 11, 1997.  Coffee output in Brazil, the world’s biggest producer, may
be lower than forecast next year as growers prune trees to
improve productivity, Carlos Besteti, manager of crop assessment
at the Agriculture Ministry’s crop forecasting agency said in an
interview.  Inventories Drop  Coffee  stockpiles  monitored by ICE totaled 1.84 million
bags as of Oct. 19, down 40 percent this year.  Global arabica demand will exceed supply by 1.3 million
bags in the year starting Oct. 1, Macquarie said last week in a
report. The robusta deficit will be 1.6 million bags, it said.
That matches the year-earlier shortfall. A bag weighs 132
pounds, or 60 kilograms.  Robusta gained as the government of Vietnam, the world’s
biggest producer of the variety, said floods and heavy rain in
central provinces left 54 people dead, 44 injured and 20
missing. Typhoon Megi, which left 19 people dead in the
Philippines, moved into the South China Sea as it headed for the
Chinese coast.  “A lot of people are seeing potential for lower Vietnamese
exports,” said  Doug Whitehead , an analyst at Rabobank
International in London. “The super-typhoon Megi could also be
inducing some pre-emptive buying in robusta.”  Rain Delay  Robusta futures for January delivery jumped $53, or 2.9
percent, to settle at $1,893 a metric ton on NYSE Liffe. Prices
reached $1,910, the highest level since Oct. 14, 2008.  “Concern over delays to the new crop should rainfall
persist” helped lift prices, along with the typhoon,  Ralph Hawes , a coffee trader with Sucden Financial Ltd. in London,
wrote in a note yesterday.  Robusta, used in instant coffee, is harvested mostly in
Asia and parts of Africa. Arabica, grown mainly in Latin
America, is favored for specialty beverages made by Starbucks
Corp. and other coffee chains.  Cocoa in London gained after the pound fell to a six-month
low against the euro, boosting the appeal of the raw material.  “I don’t see it as anything to do with supply and demand
fundamentals, it’s much more a reflection of currency
movements,” said  Gary Mead , a London-based analyst at VM Group.  Cocoa futures for December delivery climbed 42 pounds, or
2.3 percent, to settle at 1,902 pounds ($2,987) a ton in London.
In New York, cocoa futures for December delivery rose $40, or
1.4 percent, to $2,817 a ton.  Raw-sugar futures for March delivery fell 0.46 cent, or 1.6
percent, to settle at 28.35 cents a pound on ICE. In London,
refined-sugar futures for December delivery dropped $6.70, or
0.9 percent, to settle at $723.90 a ton.  Sugar loading at Brazil’s two main ports is accelerating
and lowering a backlog by half as dry weather allows vessels to
speed up shipments, according to research firm Santos Associados
Consultoria Ltda. and shipping agency Unimar Agenciamentos
Maritimos.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Kay  in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net ;
 Elizabeth Campbell  in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  