-- China’s Cold Snap May Strain Energy Supply, Hit Farms
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-21T05:51:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/cold-wave-in-china-may-affect-energy-supplies-agriculture-xinhua-reports.html
A cold snap will hit China today and
lower temperatures by as much as 16 degrees centigrade through
the weekend, potentially straining the country’s energy supply
and transportation and disrupting agricultural production.  The cold wave will be the most intense this autumn and will
bring rain, snow and frost to the country’s northern and
southeastern regions, the National  Meteorological Center  said on
its website today. The spell of cold weather may persist until
Oct. 26, according to the center.  China will likely have abnormally low temperatures this
winter because of the La Nina pattern, the official Xinhua News
Agency said in August. China National Petroleum Corp., the
country’s biggest oil and gas producer, will take “effective
measures” to ensure stable fuel supplies this winter and in
spring, the Beijing-based parent of PetroChina Co. said today on
its  website .  Snow may be expected in the western province of Xinjiang
and in some northeastern areas, and measures must be taken to
ensure adequate supplies of electricity, heat and natural gas,
the meteorological center said.  The Beijing government may start up the city’s heating
system, fueled by natural gas, earlier than normal this year
because of the cold weather, the Beijing Times reported today.
Gas demand in the Chinese capital may increase by more than 20
percent in 2010, the newspaper said.  China will start operating by the month-end a third
pipeline to transport gas from fields in the northwestern
province of Shaanxi to Beijing and the country’s eastern
provinces, the Beijing Times also said, citing Hu Weiping,
deputy director of the oil and gas department at the National
Energy Administration.  -- Wang Ying . Editors:  Ryan Woo ,  John Viljoen .  To contact the Bloomberg staff on this story:
Ying Wang in Beijing at 
 ywang30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 