-- Colorado Proposals May Spur Deficit, Ratings Cuts, Treasurer Kennedy Says
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2010-10-21T19:21:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/colorado-proposals-may-spur-deficit-ratings-cuts-treasurer-kennedy-says.html
     Oct. 21 (Bloomberg) --  Colorado ’s balanced budget and a
credit rating one level below top-grade may suffer if voters
approve ballot initiatives to limit taxation and government
borrowing, Treasurer  Cary Kennedy  said.  The proposals would shift $2 billion of education costs to
the state from local taxpayers and cut $2 billion in revenue
from the $7 billion budget, Kennedy said in an interview. State
spending on education and health would have to be cut, said
Kennedy, a Democrat in office since 2007.  “It would significantly weaken our state’s fiscal
position,” she said. “We’d face deficits that are
unprecedented and couldn’t be closed with reasonable measures.”  The three initiatives are among 159 referendums in 36
states on Nov. 2. Colorado, where 7 percent of the economy comes
from state and local government expenditures, is rated Aa1 by
Moody’s Investors Service and AA by Standard & Poor’s, second-
and third-highest, respectively.  If adopted, the Colorado initiatives “will dramatically
limit the flexibility of state and local governments in meeting
their future operating and capital demands,” Fitch Ratings said
in an Oct. 14 report. Bonds issued before 2011 won’t be impaired
by the initiatives, which are likely to be challenged in court
if approved, Fitch said. Fitch doesn’t rate the state.  Undecided Voters  About 10 percent of likely voters support the initiatives,
with about 40 percent undecided, according to a  poll  by KUSA-TV
and the Denver Post. The telephone survey of 649 people had a
margin of error of plus or minus 3.9 percentage points.  The initiatives were put on the ballot by individuals who
gathered signatures, according to  documents  on file with the
Secretary of State.  Amendment 60, which seeks to lower property taxes, and
Amendment 61, to prohibit state borrowing and limit local debt,
would alter Colorado’s constitution. Proposition 101 seeks to
lower income tax and vehicle fees by changing state law.  The proposals are the result of “grassroots” petition
drives to give citizens control over the taxes they pay, said
Louis Schroeder of Greenwood Village, identified in state
documents as one of the proponents.  “These  proposals  return to the people the power to tax
themselves,” Schroeder said in a telephone interview. “The
question is, should the taxpayers have the power to tell the tax
spenders how much they get to spend?”  Opponents call the propositions a “reckless package of
job-killing proposals” that would increase classroom size and
hurt local business, according to the website
 Donthurtcolorado.com .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Darrell Preston  in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  