-- Colombia Peso Falls as Santos, Central Bank Meeting Spurs Bets on Measures
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2010-10-21T19:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/colombia-peso-falls-as-santos-central-bank-meeting-spurs-bets-on-measures.html
Colombia’s peso fell the most in a
week as a meeting between President  Juan Manuel Santos  and the
central bank’s board sparked speculation officials will announce
additional measures to ease the peso’s rally.  The peso dropped 0.5 percent to 1,818.79 per dollar at 2:53
p.m. New York time, from 1,809.25 yesterday. Today’s decline
pared the peso’s jump this year to 12.4 percent, the second-best
performance after the Japanese yen among all currencies tracked
by Bloomberg.  While no announcement was made after today’s meeting, an
official from the president’s office who couldn’t be named
because of government policy said discussions on addressing the
currency’s appreciation will continue. Investors are betting
central bankers will announce further measures after the Oct. 29
monetary policy meeting, according to  Julian Ramirez , an analyst
at Bogota-based brokerage Proyectar Valores SA.  “The peso should continue with a weakening trend in the
short term until the new measures are known and the market
evaluates how far the central bank and the government are
willing to go and how far they can go” to ease gains in the
peso, said  Felipe Campos , head analyst at Bogota-based brokerage
Alianza Valores.  Government and central bank officials are seeking to ease a
rally in the peso that the country’s business associations said
in a letter this month threatens jobs and “jeopardizes the
Colombian economy’s positive outlook.”  Further Measures  Banco de la Republica may say it will buy dollars directly
in the market, Ramirez predicts.  The central bank said Sept. 15 it will buy a minimum of $20
million daily for at least four months. While the bank has
purchased an average daily of $20 million through auctions,
central bank chief  Jose Dario Uribe  has said Banco de la
Republica can buy “much more” or extend purchases beyond the
currently scheduled four months.  The market is also speculating officials may announce
capital controls, according to Campos.  Uribe said in a presentation this week that capital
controls currently aren’t justified as the costs of imposing the
measures outweigh the benefits.  The central bank may also lower its  overnight lending rate ,
which currently stands at a record-low of 3 percent,  Rupert Stebbings , head of the Colombian unit of Chilean brokerage
Celfin Capital SA, wrote in a note to clients today.  A rate cut “is more than viable when you look at the
benign inflation situation,” he wrote.  Annual inflation slowed to 2.28 percent last month, within
the central bank target between 2 percent and 4 percent.  The yield on the nation’s benchmark 11 percent bonds due
2020 rose 5 basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 7.03
percent, according to Colombia’s stock exchange. The bond’s
price fell 0.413 centavo to 127.338 centavos per peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Jaramillo  in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  