-- Confidence Drops to Lowest Point Since Recession Ended, Nanos Poll Shows
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2010-10-21T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/confidence-drops-to-lowest-point-since-recession-ended-nanos-poll-shows.html
Canadians’ confidence in the economy
has fallen to the lowest since the country emerged from last
year’s recession as households damp their outlook for the
recovery and real estate values, according to Nanos Research.  The  Nanos  Economic Mood Index, which is derived from
quarterly surveys that question Canadians on their personal
finances and outlook for the economy, job security and real
estate, fell to 111.4 in a poll taken Oct. 1 to Oct. 6. The
index has fallen three consecutive quarters after touching a
high of 121.2 in the fourth quarter of 2009, according to a copy
of the survey provided to Bloomberg News.  “I just see a slow erosion, largely a result of where they
expect the economy to be in the next while,”  Nik Nanos ,
president of Ottawa-based Nanos Research, said in a telephone
interview.  The index mirrors a deteriorating outlook for the global
recovery in recent months that prompted the Bank of Canada this
week to cut its forecast for growth and pause from further
interest rate increases. The bank cited a weaker U.S. outlook,
more moderate growth in emerging economies and slower
consumption in Canada.  The Bank of Canada kept its benchmark interest rate
unchanged on Oct. 19 after three previous increases, and lowered
its economic outlook for the next five quarters as household
spending and U.S. growth moderate. The bank cut its forecast for
growth this year to 3 percent from 3.5 percent, and next year to
2.3 percent from 2.9 percent.  Cautious Forecasts  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said Oct. 12 his government
will begin using more cautious growth forecasts for revenue
because economic risks are tilted to the “downside.”  Nanos said households in part take their cue from policy
makers to formulate their own outlooks.  “That’s part of the broader narrative on influencing
consumers,” Nanos said. “If Minister Flaherty continues to be
cautious, that’s a key signal to consumers to also be
cautious.”  The Nanos Economic Mood Index is based on surveys conducted
quarterly among about 1,000 Canadians by telephone. It’s a
composite of the Nanos Expectations Index that tracks views
related to the strength of the economy and real estate market,
and a Pocketbook Index based on questions related to personal
finances and job security.  The first data point of the indexes, which started at 100,
was the second quarter of 2008. The Expectations Index fell to
123.4 in the third quarter of this year, the lowest level since
the second quarter of last year. The proportion of Canadians who
predict the economy will strengthen in the next six months fell
to 29.7 percent from 39.4 percent in the previous quarter,
according to the survey. The share of people saying the economy
will weaken increased to a one-year high of 17.7 percent.  The polling has a margin of error of 3.1 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Theophilos Argitis  in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  