-- Ecuador's Correa May Issue Foreign Bonds, Lauds Benefits of `Weak Dollar'
-- B y   C e c i l i a   T o r n a g h i   a n d   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 2010-10-21T16:36:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/correa-may-sell-foreign-bonds-lauds-benefits-of-weak-dollar-.html
Ecuadorean President  Rafael Correa 
said the government may sell international bonds for the first
time since 2005 to finance everything from roads to dams, as
demand grows for the riskiest emerging-market assets.  “Perhaps we need to issue again public bonds,” Correa,
47, said in a Bloomberg Television interview at the presidential
palace in Quito. “With this rate of public investment, we in
the future will need some international financing.”  Ecuador’s dollar debt yields an average 10.1 percentage
points more than U.S. Treasuries, the most among major
developing nations after Venezuela, a sign of investor concern
after the government defaulted on bonds in 1999 and declared
$3.2 billion of notes invalid in 2008. Correa said he wants to
restore confidence in the South American nation after police
riots last month, which he described as an attempted coup, sent
the nation’s yield spread as high as 12.3 percentage points.  Correa, who has allied himself with Venezuelan President
 Hugo Chavez’s  drive toward what he calls 21st-century socialism,
took power in 2007 promising to rewrite the nation’s
constitution and lead a “citizen’s revolution” to modernize
government institutions and alleviate poverty.  Ecuador’s use of the U.S. dollar as its national currency
and dependence on oil puts Correa “under a lot of pressure in
terms of financing” as he seeks to control the budget deficit,
said  Jefferson Finch , an analyst at Eurasia Group in Washington.
The government has borrowed from China and multilateral lenders
such as the Inter-American Development Bank.  Perception of Ecuador  “We are worried about the perception of the country in the
international community,” Correa said in the interview
yesterday. “We have to continue working to show to the world
that Ecuador is a good place to invest.”  Correa, who has a doctorate in economics from the
 University of Illinois  at Urbana-Champaign, said his
government’s strategy was modeled on the ideas of Austrian
economist  Joseph Schumpeter , who popularized the term “ creative
destruction ” to describe how capitalism’s evolution would set
the stage for its future reinvention.  “We are trying to support very hard new investment because
the strategy of our government was like Schumpeter used to say:
a process of destruction,” Correa said.  Correa, who paid off Ecuador’s debt to the International
Monetary Fund in 2007 to free the country from obligations tied
to the loans, said last year the Washington-based fund was “one
of the guiltiest” of those responsible for the global economic
crisis.  Weak Dollar  At the same time, Correa lauds the benefits to Ecuador’s
 economy  of the weaker dollar by helping exports. Ecuador is
benefiting while nations from Brazil to South Korea take steps
to weaken their currencies.  “Thanks to God, in the last years the dollar has been very
weak so that is good for us because with a weak dollar we can
recover a little bit of competitiveness,” Correa said. “Since
we adopted dollarization, or the dollar as national currency,
the Federal Reserve policies have been convenient.”  The economy grew 2.7 percent in the second quarter from the
previous year, the worst performance in the region except for
Venezuela, which is in recession.  Correa tightened his grip over oil, mining, energy,
telecommunications and banking from a constitution approved in a
2008 referendum that also stripped the central bank of its
autonomy.  Oil Output  He passed an oil law by executive decree in July giving
“large” oil companies until Nov. 23 to sign new service
contracts and “marginal” producers until Jan. 22. Ecuador,
which gets 23 percent of its income from oil, is the smallest
member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.  Production of Ecuadorean oil, which sells at a discount to
West Texas Intermediate crude, has fallen 6.1 percent since
Correa took office, according to central bank data.  “The sustainability of the economy comes down to the price
of oil and exports of oil,” Eurasia Group’s Finch said
yesterday in a telephone interview.  Opposition to government plans to reduce police
compensation led to an uprising last month that left eight
people dead. Correa was trapped by protesters in a hospital for
several hours as they demanded the law be revoked. Authorities
have arrested at least 46 people for taking part in the gunfight
between police and security forces trying to free Correa.  “Some people say that we have to conciliate, we have to
talk,” Correa said. “It’s not possible to talk with people
like that. We are going to continue with our rules, the same
public policies.”  2005 Sale  Ecuador last sold international bonds in December 2005,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The government’s 9.375
percent bonds maturing in 2015 have dropped this year, pushing
the yield up 0.46 percentage point to 11.47 percent at 12:13
p.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  During Correa’s tenure, Ecuador defaulted on $3.2 billion
in bonds due in 2012 and 2030, saying the securities were
“illegitimate” and “illegal.” The government’s bonds due in
2015 were the only of three global notes Correa kept servicing.  Standard & Poor’s rates the nation’s debt B-, six levels
below investment grade and one level under Argentina. Moody’s
rates the debt Caa3, nine steps below investment grade.  Investors seeking higher returns amid near-zero interest
rates in the U.S, Europe and Japan may be willing to overlook
the government’s past credit issues and buy new debt from
Ecuador, said  Win Thin , a senior currency strategist at Brown
Brothers in New York.  Push for Yields  “This whole investors’ push for yields has brought out a
lot of emerging-market borrowers, both corporates and
sovereign,” Thin said in an interview. “It’s a little scary.”  Correa is now trying to boost government revenue from oil
production by forcing private oil companies, including  Repsol
YPF SA  of Madrid and Rio de Janeiro-based  Petroleo Brasileiro
SA , to switch to service contracts from production-sharing
accords or face expropriation.  “Now that we’ve gotten our house in order, we are very
optimistic that we’ll have a development push,” Correa said.
“We had to take apart everything to build something better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cecilia Tornaghi  in Quito at 
 ctornaghi@bloomberg.net ;
 Nathan Gill  in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  