-- Cotton Jumps as China Demand Signals Tighter Supply; Orange Juice Declines
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-10-21T14:32:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/cotton-jumps-as-china-demand-signals-tighter-supply-orange-juice-declines.html
Cotton futures rose for a second day
in New York amid tightening global supplies and signs of
climbing demand in China, the world’s biggest user and grower.
Orange-juice prices fell.  Cotton yields in China may be lower this year amid cool,
wet weather in growing regions, said  Andy Ryan , a senior-risk
management consultant at FCStone Fibers & Textiles. Futures on
the Zhengzhou Commodity Exchange rose to a record today. The
Asian country has increased imports in a bid to curb local
prices.  “This morning’s strength is directly related to the
Chinese markets,” said  Mike Stevens , an independent trader in
Mandeville, Louisiana. “It is a red-hot Chinese market that
went to new highs. It’s just the scramble for supplies.”  Cotton for December delivery rose 2.05 cents, or 1.8
percent, to $1.1631 a pound at 10:31 a.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in
New York. Yesterday, the most-active contract rose by 4 cents,
the exchange limit.  On Oct 15., futures reached $1.198, the highest level since
the fiber starting trading 140 years ago.  “Chinese cotton prices are driving the rest of the world
higher,” FCStone’s Ryan said from Nashville, Tennessee. “Their
market’s being driven higher by crop concerns and a very tight
world situation.”  Global inventories will fall 4.3 percent in the year that
began Aug. 1 from a year earlier, the U.S. government forecast
on Oct. 8.  Before today, futures in New York jumped 51 percent this
year, the most among the 19 raw materials in the Thomson
Reuters/Jefferies CRB  Index .  A weaker dollar, down about 2 percent this month against a
six-currency basket, has supported cotton and other commodities,
Ryan said. Before today, the CRB Index rose 4.2 percent since
Sept. 30.  Orange-juice futures for January delivery lost 0.75 cent,
or 0.5 percent, to $1.4765 a pound on ICE. Before today, the
price added 15 percent in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Campbell  in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 