-- Credit Suisse May Use Contingent Convertibles in Bankers' Pay, Dougan Says
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a   a n d   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r
-- 2010-10-21T13:54:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/credit-suisse-may-use-coco-bonds-in-bankers-pay-dougan-says.html
Credit Suisse Group AG  bankers may
in future receive part of their pay in contingent convertible
bonds, securities regulators are pushing firms to use to cushion
against losses, Chief Executive Officer  Brady Dougan  said.  “It’s something that we’ll certainly think about,” Dougan
said in a Bloomberg Television interview in Zurich today. “I
think it’s an interesting idea.”  Regulators and investors are pushing banks to link
compensation with long-term performance after annual cash
bonuses were blamed for contributing to the worst financial
crisis since the Great Depression. Contingent convertibles, or
CoCos, automatically become equity when triggers such as certain
capital levels are breached, supplying a buffer against losses.
Credit Suisse, if it implemented the plan, would be the first
firm in Europe to make CoCos part of bankers’ remuneration.  “They’re actually attractive investment instruments, so
from that point of view they’re not so bad for employees,”
Dougan said. “They also, I think, do help to align the
interests, which is something that obviously regulators and all
of us would like to see.”  Credit Suisse and Swiss rival  UBS AG  have already raised
fixed salaries as a proportion of overall compensation and are
deferring a part of variable awards into later years with the
possibility of clawing them back in case of future losses. In
2008, the bank decided to use leveraged loans and commercial
mortgage-backed securities as part of variable compensation for
about 2,000 senior employees.  ‘Sooner Rather Than Later’  A government-appointed panel recommended this month that
the two Zurich-based lenders hold as much as 9 percent of their
risk-weighted capital in CoCos. Demand for the securities could
rise as investors seek to replace their holdings of about 450
billion euros ($630 billion) in hybrid bonds that will mature or
be called by banks in the coming years because they will no
longer count as capital under the Basel rules, Dougan said.  “It’s a market that can develop and will develop,” he
said. Credit Suisse has already had enquiries from investors
interested in such notes, and the bank sees some benefits in
starting to sell them “sooner rather than later,” he said.  Dougan said it is “unlikely” that it will use CoCos in
the 2010 pay round, given that regulators are still to give
information on how banks should use the securities.  Credit Suisse said today it cut the amount it set aside to
pay investment-banking employees by 20 percent from a year
earlier as revenue at the unit slid 27 percent. The investment
bank’s nine-month compensation expense dropped to 6.21 billion
Swiss francs ($6.43 billion), or 49 percent of revenue, from
7.78 billion francs, or 44 percent, a year earlier. That’s
enough to pay each of the unit’s 21,200 employees 292,924 francs
for the period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elena Logutenkova  in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 