-- Credit Suisse Posts 74% Profit Drop on Lower Trading
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2010-10-21T07:55:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/credit-suisse-profit-tumbles-74-more-than-estimates-as-trading-declines.html
Credit Suisse Group AG , Switzerland’s
second-largest bank, reported a 74 percent slump in third-
quarter profit, missing analysts’ estimates as lower client
activity curbed trading revenue.  Credit Suisse fell as much as 3.9 percent in Swiss trading
after saying net income fell to 609 million Swiss francs ($630
million) from 2.35 billion francs a year earlier. Analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg estimated the Zurich-based bank would post
earnings of 861 million francs.  Chief Executive Officer  Brady Dougan  said the quarter was
characterized by “challenging conditions with low market
volumes and subdued client activity,” and reiterated the bank’s
intention to boost market share at the investment bank. The
slump in trading also hurt revenue at U.S. competitors,
including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  and Morgan Stanley.  “Credit Suisse earnings don’t look very good,” said
 Teresa Nielsen , an analyst at Vontobel Holding AG. “All U.S.
banks except for Morgan Stanley did better.”  Credit Suisse’s trading revenue slumped 41 percent to 2.54
billion francs, missing analysts’ forecast for about 3 billion
francs. Goldman Sachs, Citigroup Inc.,  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and
Morgan Stanley, all based in New York, as well as Charlotte,
North Carolina-based Bank of America Corp., on average reported
a 24 percent decline in trading revenue in the third quarter
from a year earlier, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Credit Suisse fell 1.29 francs, or 3 percent, to 42.05 at
9:27 a.m. in Zurich trading. The stock is down 18 percent this
year, compared with a 2.3 percent decline in the 54-company
Bloomberg  Europe Banks and Financial Services Index . UBS AG, the
largest Swiss bank, has gained 8.8 percent this year.  Hiring  “July was particularly and perhaps abnormally weak,
especially in investment banking,”  David Mathers , Credit
Suisse’s chief financial officer, told journalists on a
conference call. “August was also weak, but I think that would
be more what you’d expect given the normal seasonal patterns.
And then September did show some improvement from that.”  Client activity in October so far has been “more in line
with September,” Mathers said. He added that the bank is seeing
benefits from recent hiring for the securities unit, while
earnings were burdened in the quarter by the strengthening of
the Swiss franc against the U.S. dollar.  Debt and Equities  The equities sales and trading business, which posted the
second-highest revenue in the first half of the year behind
Goldman Sachs, saw revenue drop 41 percent to 1.08 billion
francs in the quarter, the lowest level since the end of 2008.  Fixed-income sales and trading revenue slumped to 1.46
billion francs from 2.48 billion francs a year ago. The results
were helped by “strong” revenue in U.S. residential mortgage-
backed securities trading and credit businesses, the bank said.  Credit Suisse aims to be in the top five in all regions in
credit, rates and foreign-exchange trading, Dougan, 51, told
investors in London last month. The bank increased sales
headcount by 25 percent, 32 percent and 35 percent in those
areas, respectively, this year.  The investment bank’s  pretax profit  dropped 77 percent to
395 million francs, missing analysts’ estimates of 756 million
francs. Earnings at the wealth management unit fell 15 percent
to 612 million francs, while the business attracted 12.4 billion
francs in net new assets. Corporate and institutional clients
unit posted a 56 percent jump in profit to 224 million francs,
and asset management’s earnings fell 57 percent to 135 million
francs.  Capital  The bank, which survived the credit crisis without
government assistance, said this month it expects to meet new
regulatory capital requirements without having to sell new
shares or to “materially” change its growth plans and  dividend 
policies.  A Swiss government-appointed panel proposed that the two
biggest Swiss banks need to hold almost double the capital
required under Basel III rules. By 2019, the lenders need to
have a common equity ratio of at least 10 percent, compared with
7 percent under Basel III rules, and total capital equal to at
least 19 percent of risk-weighted assets, compared with Basel’s
10.5 percent requirement.  Credit Suisse had a Tier 1 capital ratio of 16.7 percent at
the end of the third quarter, compared with 16.3 percent three
months earlier.  The bank may reach a common equity capital ratio of about
12 percent in 2013 if its earnings are in line with analysts’
expectations and it pays out about 30 percent in dividends,
according to Mathers’ presentation slides. That ratio would
still be more than 10 percent if net income is 50 percent lower,
the slides show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elena Logutenkova  in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  