-- Curtis’s Trannie, Groucho’s Despot Star in Funniest U.S. Films
-- B y   P e t e r   R a i n e r
-- 2010-10-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/curtis-s-trannie-groucho-s-despot-star-in-funniest-u-s-films.html
Tony Curtis ’s death prompted me to
compile an honor roll of the 10 funniest American talkies ever
made. My criterion was simple: number of belly laughs per
minute.  Curtis’s “ Some Like It Hot ” (1959) tops the list. He and
 Jack Lemmon  co-star as two Chicago jazz musicians who, having
accidentally witnessed the St. Valentine’s Day Massacre, elude
the mob by joining an all-girl band that includes  Marilyn Monroe ’s breathy Sugar Kane.  Even great comedies usually don’t feature more than a
couple of classic sequences. “Some Like it Hot,” co-written by
director Billy Wilder and I.A.L. Diamond, has one every few
minutes. The two-disc MGM Collector’s Edition is particularly
valuable for its extra features on the making of the film,
including Curtis’s remark (later retracted) that kissing the
temperamental Monroe was “like kissing Hitler.”  Stanley Kubrick ’s “ Dr. Strangelove ” (1964), co-written by
Terry Southern, is probably the greatest antiwar film, although
you’d have to be pretty humor-challenged to think of it that
way.  It’s a nihilist cackle of a movie featuring an all-star
cast of loons, including Sterling Hayden’s General Jack D.
Ripper, with his “purity of essence” fixation. There’s also
 George C. Scott ’s General “Buck” Turgidson, who would have
loved the smell of napalm in the morning, and  Peter Sellers ’s
Dr. Strangelove, who looks as if he was wheeled in from a  Fritz Lang  movie by way of Mad magazine.  ‘Duck Soup’  The Marx Brothers’ “ Duck Soup ” (1933), directed by Leo
McCarey, is another great antiwar, pro-laughter movie. Groucho
plays dictator Rufus T. Firefly of tiny Freedonia, who for no
particular reason declares war on neighboring Sylvania. Chico
and Harpo are his spies, and the ineffably clueless Margaret
Dumont is the butt of all their jokes. Hail Freedonia!  In “ It’s a Gift ” (1934), W.C. Fields plays a harried
grocery store owner whose chief nemeses are his harpy wife and
the preternaturally annoying Baby LeRoy. There may be no funnier
slow-burn sequence in movies than the one where Fields is
continually rousted from his porchside nap by annoying
passersby. One of them, a salesman searching for a Mr. Carl
LaFong, repeatedly drones, “That’s capital C, small a, small
r....”  Preston Sturges ’s “ The Lady Eve ” (1941) calibrates every
witticism and pratfall to the millisecond.  Henry Fonda  is the
geeky heir to a brewery fortune and amateur ophiologist
(“snakes are my life”) ensnared by wised-up con artist  Barbara Stanwyck . In its own Golden Age of Hollywood way, “The Lady
Eve” is as beautifully worked-out and satisfying as anything by
 George Bernard Shaw .  ‘The Producers’  Forget the Broadway musical of “ The Producers .” The best
incarnation of this screw-loose story about the wages of sin
remains  Mel Brooks ’s 1968 movie.  Zero Mostel  plays beady-eyed
scoundrel Max Bialystock, whose scheme to deliberately stage a
Broadway flop and make off with the investors’ money capsizes
when “Springtime for Hitler” becomes a surprise hit. The
elephantine Max is surprisingly fleet-footed, which comes in
especially handy while fleecing blue-haired dowagers.  Gene Wilder ’s pathologically whiny accountant Leo Bloom is Mostel’s
match.  When it opened in 1980, the terminally humorless criticized
“ Airplane! ” for being a mere joke-book movie. Yes, but what
jokes! Co-writer-directors Jerry and David Zucker and Jim
Abrahams brought out the lunacy that was always lurking just
beneath the stalwart surfaces of flight-disaster films like
“Airport” and “Zero Hour.” They also brought out the crazy
streak in poker-faced actors like  Leslie Nielsen ,  Lloyd Bridges ,
 Robert Stack  and  Peter Graves .  ‘Two Brains’  Sydney Pollack’s “ Tootsie ” (1982), co-written by  Larry Gelbart , is second only to “Some Like It Hot” in the
transvestism comedy sweepstakes.  Dustin Hoffman  plays an
unemployed actor who disguises himself as a woman to cop a star-
making role on a hit soap opera. My favorite scene: Hoffman
shows up in full drag for a lunch appointment with his
unsuspecting agent at the Russian Tea Room. The agent, played by
Pollack, takes one look at his client and moans: “I begged you
to get some therapy.”  Carl Reiner ’s “ The Man With Two Brains ” (1983) is the
funniest, though not the best-known,  Steve Martin  film. He plays
famed neurosurgeon Dr. Michael Hfuhruhurr, who falls in love
with a woman’s disembodied brain.  Kathleen Turner , fresh from
“Body Heat,” is the doc’s impeccably venal wife. Comedy
doesn’t get more blissfully silly than the scene in which
Martin, in a rowboat, romances the bottled brain of his beloved.  Albert Brooks ’s “ Lost in America ” (1985) is a road movie
with no destination. Brooks, who also co-wrote and directed,
plays a yuppie who ditches his job as an ad exec to “find
himself” by riding a motor home across the country with his
wife (Julie Hagerty).  The joke is that there isn’t all that much to find. When
his wife blows their nest egg in Las Vegas, Brooks tries to
persuade the casino manager ( Garry Marshall ) to give the money
back as a public gesture of goodwill. Minute-for-minute, this is
one of the most hilarious deadpan sequences ever filmed.  (Peter Rainer is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own).  To contact the writer responsible for this story:
Peter Rainer at  Fi1L2E@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 