-- Czech Interest Rates Are `Unsustainable' in Long Term, Central Banker Says
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2010-10-21T11:03:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/czech-interest-rates-are-unsustainable-in-long-term-central-banker-says.html
Current Czech  interest -rate settings
are “unsustainable” in the long term because they were set for
an “extraordinary situation,” central bank Vice Governor
Mojmir Hampl said.  Hampl, speaking to reporters today in Prague, didn’t
specify a time frame for when the two-week repurchase rate may
change. The Prague-based Ceska Narodni Banka left the benchmark
at a record-low 0.75 percent on Sept. 23 after it signaled
borrowing costs may be stable until the middle of next year.  Hampl, who voted to keep rates steady at the meeting, said
his view on economic developments hasn’t changed “markedly”
since the last policy session and he “sees strong”
inflationary and anti-inflationary risks.  “These risks are, to a large extent, offsetting each
other,” Hampl said. “In this situation, I can’t anticipate
when the rate may move.”  One of the risks is the uncertainty over the shape of
future financial regulation as tighter rules may hamper bank
lending in the Czech Republic’s main trading partners and hold
back the country’s economic growth, Hampl said.  The central bank will hold the next rate meeting on Nov. 4
when it will also present new quarterly economic forecasts.
Governor  Miroslav Singer  said yesterday the bank may revise its
growth  outlook  upwards. The central bank currently sees gross
domestic product expanding 1.6 percent this year and 1.8 percent
in 2011.  The Czech Republic’s  inflation  rate jumped 2 percent in
September, the highest in 18 months, on food, tobacco and
housing costs. The inflation rate matched the central bank’s
target and was below its forecast for that month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Laca  in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  