-- Dangote Cement to Raise Output Fivefold, Now Africa's Biggest by Capacity
-- B y   P a u l   O k o l o
-- 2010-10-21T07:23:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/dangote-cement-to-raise-output-fivefold-now-africa-s-biggest-by-capacity.html
Dangote Cement Plc, whose merger
with  Benue Cement Co.  makes it Africa’s biggest producer of the
building material by capacity, plans to raise capacity more than
fivefold by 2015 through expansion amid a construction boom in
Africa, Chief Operating Officer Kunle Alake said.  The company, based in the Nigerian commercial hub of Lagos,
plans to boost capacity to 46.2 million tons by 2015 through
investments in other African countries and in Nigeria, its home
base, Alake said in an interview on Oct. 18. Dangote plans to
increase capacity outside Nigeria to 16.2 million tons by 2015
and to 30 million tons within the West African nation. Its
Obajana cement plant is able to produce 5.2 million tons now
while  Benue Cement , with which Dangote merged this month, can
make 3 million tons.  “We’re in South Africa, Zambia, Senegal, Ethiopia, Sierra
Leone; we already have terminals in Ghana and we plan to have a
grinding mill in Cameroon,” Alake said. The company is also
planning to build a plant in Congo Republic.  Countries across the continent are building roads, houses,
bridges and railways, creating demand for the building material.
In Nigeria, the continent’s most populous country and top oil
producer, demand is said to grow an average 10 percent annually,
Access Bank Plc, a Lagos-based lender, wrote in a May report.  The merged entity’s capacity exceeds that of  Pretoria
Portland Cement Co. , which till now has been Africa’s largest
maker of the building material. Plants owned by PPC, as the
company is known, have capacity to produce 8 million tons of
cement products annually in South Africa, Botswana and Zimbabwe.  Sephaku Cement  Dangote raised its stake in Sephaku Cement in South Africa,
a unit of  Sephaku Holdings Ltd.  to 64 percent by buying shares
worth 779 million rand ($112 million) in June. Sephaku Cement is
developing the Aganang project that will produce 900,000 tons,
and the Delmas plant that will yield 1.25 million tons a year
when completed in 2013, according to Sephaku. The company also
has a plant in Benin.  In Nigeria, Dangote is doubling output at the Obajana plant
to 10 million tons next year, Alake said. Dangote’s nearest
competitor in Nigeria is Lafarge SA’s local unit,  Lafarge Cement
WAPCO Nigeria Plc , which plans to raise production to 4.2
million tons by next year from 2.2 million now through its
Lakatabu project,  Daily Trust  reported on Oct. 15.  Listing  “We are miles ahead of competition,” said Alake.  Dangote, which reported a 67 percent increase in profit for
the nine months through September to 75.3 billion naira ($495
million) yesterday, will start trading on the  Nigerian Stock
Exchange  on Oct. 26. The 2.09 trillion-naira listing, created
out of the merger of Dangote and Benue Cement in which Dangote
was the biggest shareholder, will boost the market’s value by
about 37 percent.  The Dangote Group also controls  Dangote Sugar Refinery Plc ,
Nigeria’s largest sugar refiner, and  Dangote Flour Mills Plc ,
which produces flour, pasta and polypropylene bags. The business
is headed by Aliko Dangote, a 53-year-old billionaire from the
northern Nigerian city of Kano.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Okolo  in Abuja 
 pokolo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 