-- Danone Plans $696 Million Share Buyback After Stake Sales; Confirms Goals
-- B y   T o m   M u l i e r
-- 2010-10-21T08:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/danone-reports-third-quarter-sales-gain-of-15-on-emerging-markets-u-s-.html
Groupe Danone SA , the world’s
biggest yogurt maker, said third-quarter sales rose 15 percent
as it increased prices for the first time in five quarters. The
company will buy back 500 million euros ($695 million) of stock.  Revenue in the three months ended Sept. 30 advanced to
4.35 billion euros from 3.78 billion euros a year earlier, the
Paris-based company said today. That beat the 4.24 billion-euro
median of four analysts’ estimates in a Bloomberg  survey .
Organic sales, or revenue excluding acquisitions and currency
swings, gained 6.9 percent, more than the 5.5 percent estimate.  Pricing added 0.6 percentage point to sales, after cutting
2.8 percentage points from sales in Danone’s  first half . The
company has returned to a “normal situation” where it can
manage prices better after having decreased them in past
quarters, Danone Chief Financial Officer Pierre-Andre Terisse
said on a conference call with journalists.  The report was “very solid given all of the gloom and
doom,” said  Warren Ackerman , an  analyst  at Evolution
Securities. “Water is the big beat, but dairy volumes and
pricing are reassuring.” Water sales advanced 8.7 percent,
while dairy volumes gained 5.6 percent.  Danone rose  as much as 1.39 euros, or 3.2 percent, to 44.77
euros in Paris trading, the sharpest advance in more than three
months. The stock was up 2.9 percent at 9:49 a.m., extending the
gain this year to 4.3 percent.  China, Russia Stakes  The company said it’s starting the buyback as it receives
about 500 million euros in cash from selling stakes in China
Huiyuan Juice Group Ltd. and Russia’s OAO Wimm-Bill-Dann Foods.  Danone repeated its target for full-year organic sales of
at least 6 percent. Danone gets more than 40 percent of  revenue 
from  emerging markets , a higher proportion than larger rival
Nestle SA. The company expects free cash flow from operations
this year to rise at least 10 percent.  Dairy costs have gained about 15 percent this year,
according to  Andy Smith , an analyst at MF Global, who said that
may prevent Danone from reaching its goal of maintaining its
full-year operating margin at last year’s level. The first-half
operating margin dropped to 15.3 percent from 16 percent a year
earlier, Danone said in July.  “We continue to see margin pressures,” wrote  David Hayes ,
an analyst at Nomura in London, before the release. He rates the
stock “reduce.”  Like-for-like shipments rose 6.3 percent, compared with
9.8 percent in the first half.  The maker of Activia started offering cheaper goods in
Europe, such as a range of 1-euro yogurts, last year to gain
customers during the recession.  The company said June 18 it will combine its Russian
unit with OAO Unimilk to become the biggest dairy producer
in that market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Mulier  in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 