-- Debenhams Plans to Pay First Dividend in 2 1/2 Years as Profit Increases
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2010-10-21T11:03:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/debenhams-plans-to-pay-first-dividend-in-2-1-2-years-as-profit-increases.html
Debenhams Plc , the U.K.’s second-
largest department store chain, plans to pay its first dividend
in 2 1/2 years as own-label fashion brands such as H! by Henry
Holland help boost sales and profitability.  The retailer aims to restart payouts to shareholders in
April 2011, which will be covered about three times by adjusted
earnings per share, Debenhams said in a  statement  today. Full-
year profit increased 21 percent, meeting the company’s
forecast. The  shares  gained the most in 18 months.  Debenhams has reduced  net debt  by 48 percent since it last
declared a dividend in 2008. Same-store sales and the gross
margin have been “positive” since the end of August, according
to the retailer, which was saddled with 1.2 billion pounds of
debt when it was re-listed on the stock market in May 2006.  “The balance sheet is no longer an issue,” Seymour Pierce
analyst  Kate Calvert  said in an e-mail. Debenhams cut net
borrowings to 517 million pounds ($813 million) as of Aug. 28
from 590 million pounds a year earlier.  Debenhams gained as much as 9.3 percent in London trading,
the steepest advance since April 29, 2009. The  stock  was up 5.55
pence, or 7.8 percent, to 77.05 pence as of 11:57 a.m.  “Increasing confidence in the sustainability of Debenhams’
growth story should start to close the valuation gap on its
peers,” said Calvert, who has a “buy” rating on the stock.  Cash Generation  Profit before tax and some items rose to 151 million pounds
in the 12 months ended Aug. 28, from 125.2 million pounds a year
earlier, London-based Debenhams said today. That was in line
with the company’s forecast last month of 150 million pounds.
Sales at stores open at least a year were unchanged.  The decision to reinstate the  dividend  is a result of
improved cash generation, Chief Executive Officer  Rob Templeman 
said. Operating cash inflow was 299.2 million pounds in the
year, up from 241 million pounds a year earlier.  Templeman wouldn’t rule out further acquisitions after
Debenhams bought Denmark’s Magasin du Nord chain in January.
“We still would have the firepower if we wanted to look at
other things. The free cash flow is incredibly strong.”  Women’s wear is “bouncing back” after market share was
unchanged last year, the CEO said. Debenhams has been refitting
U.K. stores and cut prices on new-season merchandise by as much
as 25 percent for four days in September.  “Although we remain concerned about the general retail
environment, we are encouraged by the start to the new financial
year, which has seen positive like-for-like sales and gross
margin in the early weeks,” Templeman said in the statement.  The CEO said he hasn’t had sufficient time to consider
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne ’s plans to cut half a
million public jobs and squeeze welfare by 11 billion pounds.  “Of course it’s going to have an impact, people are going
to have slightly slower disposable income, so it means we have
to work a bit harder,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Shannon  in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net . 