-- Democrat Sestak Closing Poll Gap With Toomey in Pennsylvania's Senate Race
-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 2010-10-21T17:17:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/democrat-sestak-closing-poll-gap-with-toomey-in-pennsylvania-s-senate-race.html
Democratic U.S. Representative  Joe Sestak  has pulled within two percentage points of former
Republican Representative  Pat Toomey  in the race for a U.S.
Senate seat from Pennsylvania, after trailing by seven points a
month ago, a  poll  released today shows.  If the vote were held today, the Quinnipiac University poll
shows that 46 percent of likely voters would support Sestak and
48 percent would back Toomey -- within the three-percentage-
point margin of error. That makes the race “a statistical dead
heat,” according to a statement accompanying the results. A
Sept. 22 Quinnipiac poll showed Toomey ahead 50-43 percent.  “Pennsylvania is a blue state and Democrats there have
begun to come home,”  Peter A. Brown , assistant director of the
 Quinnipiac University Polling Institute  in Hamden, Connecticut,
said in a statement, referring to the state’s frequent
preference for Democrats. “Democrats often engage later in the
campaign than do Republicans.”  Sestak and Toomey are vying to fill the seat of  Arlen Specter , the 80-year-old Republican-turned-Democrat who in the
May 2010 primary failed to win his new party’s nomination to
hold the seat. The nonpartisan  Cook Political Report  rates the
race a “tossup.” Republicans need a net gain of 10 seats to
take control of the Senate from Democrats.  Toomey, 48, is a former three-term representative from the
Lehigh Valley. He lost to Specter, who switched parties in 2009,
in the 2004 Republican Senate primary. Sestak, 58, is in his
second term representing a House district in the Philadelphia
suburbs.  Comeback  Sestak’s comeback may be driven in part by voters in the
Southeastern Pennsylvania area put off by  Christine O’Donnell ,
the Tea-Party backed Republican running for Senate in Delaware,
which shares a media market with Philadelphia, said  Jennifer Duffy , political analyst at the  Cook Political Report,  a
Washington-based publication that tracks political races.  This “closing” factor is also happening in other Senate
races, said  Stephen Hess , a Congress scholar at the Brookings
Institution, a policy institute in Washington. Democrat Jack
Conway is closing the gap with Republican  Rand Paul  in  Kentucky ,
and Democrat  Patty Murray  is closing the polling gap with
Republican  Dino Rossi  in Washington State, according to a
 compilation  of polls by Real Clear Politics, a political
website.  “For the GOP to win, the Senate requires a clean sweep of
10, which, if this is a trend, means that a Republican majority
Senate is highly unlikely,” Hess said in an e-mail message.  Republican Wave  “If the Republicans don’t win here, it would be a bad omen
for Colorado, a bad omen for West Virginia and a bad omen for
Nevada,” said  Stuart Rothenberg , editor and publisher of the
 Rothenberg Political Report , a non-partisan newsletter based in
Washington that covers U.S. political campaigns. With a large
number of older, white voters in Pennsylvania, “it would say
something about the size of the Republican wave if they were to
lose here,” Rothenberg said.  President  Barack Obama ’s approval rating in the state has
improved and that may be aiding his party, Brown said, although
he noted that it remained “decidedly negative.”  Obama’s approval rating in the current survey rose to 44
percent from 40 percent in Quinnipiac’s Sept. 22 survey, and the
percentage of voters who thought he wasn’t doing a good job as
president fell to 53 percent from 56 percent, according to the
statement.  Obama’s Policies  Sestak is favored by 53 percent of likely female voters,
compared with 41 percent for Toomey. The likely male voters
surveyed support Toomey over Sestak, 54-40 percent.  Just over half of the voters surveyed -- 51 percent -- say
they want their new U.S. senator to oppose, rather than support,
Obama’s policies. Forty-five percent of respondents say they
want Republicans to control the U.S. Senate next year, while 38
percent back Democratic control, the survey reported.  “There is still a mood in the likely Pennsylvania
electorate for change, which appears more likely to help Toomey
than Sestak,” Brown said. “Among the 33 percent of likely
voters who say they are angry with the federal government,
Toomey leads 77-17 percent.”  Quinnipiac surveyed 1,046 likely voters in Pennsylvania
from Oct. 13-17. The margin of error is plus or minus three
percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter S. Green  in New York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 