-- Derivative Trader’s Tea Party Gets a Crasher: Margaret Carlson
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2010-10-21T01:00:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/derivative-trader-s-tea-party-gets-a-crasher-margaret-carlson.html
The cake was baked in  Pennsylvania ’s
U.S. Senate race a long time ago.  This was to be the year for conservative  Pat Toomey , the
former U.S. representative and onetime president of the Club for
Growth, to win statewide in his second try. He’d almost taken
down Senator  Arlen Specter  in the Republican primary in 2004 and
was ready to vanquish him this time.  That prospect scared Specter into the arms of Democrats,
who welcomed him in 2009 with the promise that there would be no
bullies in their clubhouse. Specter, 80, expected to be handed
the nomination with a bow on top, then to show the 48-year-old
Toomey who’s boss in the general election.  Enter Democratic Representative  Joe Sestak , a former Navy
admiral who didn’t like being told what not to do. As he
challenged Specter for the nomination, he was snubbed by fellow
Democrats: How dare he muck up such a perfect deal, whereby
Democrats got a critical 60th vote in the Senate and an easy win
in the 2010 Senate race.  Specter led Sestak in polls for months, until those pesky
voters started paying attention. Sniffing the smoke of the
backroom deal, they balked. Specter, the anointed one, lost,
big-time.  Now Sestak seems to be enjoying a similar kick in the
homestretch of the general-election campaign. Two polls released
in the last two days showed him ahead of Toomey for the first
time -- up 44 percent to 41 percent in the  Morning
Call/Muhlenberg College  daily tracking poll, up 46 percent to 45
percent according to  Public Policy Polling , which in August had
him down by nine percentage points.  Lesson for Others  Is there a lesson for Democrats in Sestak’s impressive if
still incomplete comeback? Yes, though not one easily followed
by others at this late date.  It’s taken some time, but it seems Pennsylvania voters are
grasping that insider and outsider are more complicated labels
than Democrat and Republican. Toomey, the out-of-office
Republican, can be counted on to fight for the haves over the
have-nots -- what an insider does. Sestak, the Democrat with a
seat currently in the House, had the guts to challenge his party
by taking on Specter. That made him an outsider, with all the
attendant inconveniences.  While Democrats stopped shunning Sestak after he became
their nominee, he still faced an “I-told-you-so” atmosphere as
Toomey raced ahead in early polling. Sestak got the endorsements
of independents such as former Senator Chuck Hagel and New York
City Mayor Mike Bloomberg. A sulking Specter waited until this
month to endorse him and last week to appear with him.  Too Conservative  No matter. Sestak’s campaign has reminded voters time and
again that Toomey is too conservative for Pennsylvania, even
taking into account the description of the state as Pittsburgh
and Philadelphia with  Alabama  in between. Pennsylvania elects
moderate Republicans, such as Specter and former governors Tom Ridge and Richard Thornburgh. (Consider former Senator Rick Santorum the exception that proves the rule.)  A former  derivatives trader  on  Wall Street  before he
entered politics, Toomey was more conservative during his three
terms in the House, from 1999 to 2005, than 98 percent of U.S.
legislators since 1995, according to an  analysis  by the website
pollster.com, which relied on a computer analysis of roll-call
votes called  DW-Nominate . That score makes Toomey more
conservative than Senator  Jim DeMint , the Tea Party favorite;
more conservative than Santorum in his day; and about equal to
former Senator Jesse Helms.  Recession-scarred Pennsylvanians are more scared than
analytical. After all, their state capital, Harrisburg, has
hired attorneys for advice on seeking  bankruptcy protection . And
there’s nothing appealing about Toomey to those who work hard
and play by the rules.  ‘TARP Boondoggle’  He’s consistently against financial regulation and for
reducing corporate capital-gains and estate taxes. The AFL-CIO
says he voted with its interests 7 percent of the time during
his political career. He’s  blasted  Sestak for voting for “the
$700 billion TARP boondoggle” -- also known as the bailout
program, begun under President  George W. Bush , that may have
staved off a depression and might in the end produce a small
profit for U.S. taxpayers.  Sestak’s message may finally be getting through: Far from
an insurgent populist, Toomey is a fiscal elitist who has always
believed that if government looks after those at the top, the
bottom will take care of itself. As he said last night in a
debate with Toomey, “It’s ‘We the people,’ not ‘We the
marketplace’ or ‘We the corporation.’ That’s the difference in
this election.”  At least until now, Toomey has appealed to voters simply
because he’s no longer in  Washington . (Give credit where credit
is due: Unlike many of his big-talking colleagues, Toomey
carried out his pledge to term-limit himself in the House.) But
where you work matters less than whom you work for. Perhaps
that’s the advice Sestak can offer endangered Democratic
incumbents elsewhere.  ( Margaret Carlson , author of “Anyone Can Grow Up: How
 George Bush  and I Made It to the White House” and former White
House correspondent for Time magazine, is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Margaret Carlson in Washington at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  