-- ABC, CBS, NBC Block Google TV Access to Shows as Networks Seek More Fees
-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r
-- 2010-10-21T23:43:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/disney-s-abc-blocks-google-tv-access-to-shows-from-network.html
ABC, CBS and NBC have blocked access
to Google TV as the networks negotiate with  Google Inc.  over
rights to rebroadcast their programs over the Internet.  ABC won’t allow Google TV to show its programs, the  Walt
Disney Co. -owned network said today in an e-mailed statement.
CBS and NBC are also blocking content, according to people with
knowledge of the situation.  Google executives have been negotiating with major TV
providers since summer to obtain programming. The service, which
began this month, carries shows from websites associated with
 Time Warner Inc. ’s HBO and TBS. The clash with Google comes as
the biggest broadcast networks have been seeking compensation
from pay-TV systems for signals that are free over the air.  “We’re in the early phases of Google TV and already have
strong partnerships with Best Buy, Logitech and Sony, among
others,” Mountain View, California-based Google said in a
statement. “It is ultimately the content owner’s choice to
restrict users from accessing their content on the platform.”  Google and New York-based  CBS Corp.  couldn’t agree on a
price for the shows, said an executive with knowledge of the
network’s deliberations. NBC channels online viewers to its
NBC.com website, said a person with knowledge of the network’s
stance who wasn’t cleared to speak publicly.  Google TV also carries programming from NBC Universal’s
CNBC and from Chow, an online cooking site owned by CBS. For
now, New York-based  News Corp. ’s Fox is allowing its programming
to be seen on the Google service.  “The idea of blocking access to Google TV has been
explored, but a firm decision has yet to be reached,” Fox said
in an e-mail.  Google rose $4.01 to $611.99 today in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading. The shares have lost 1.3 percent this year.  The Wall Street Journal reported the networks’ dispute with
Google earlier today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ron Grover  in Los Angeles at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  