-- Dollar Weakens as Geithner Says Surplus Nations Should Use Exchange Rates
-- B y   Y a s u h i k o   S e k i   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 2010-10-22T06:33:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/dollar-set-to-halt-five-week-decline-versus-euro-before-g-20-nations-meet.html
The dollar fell against the euro
after U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said nations
with persistent trade surpluses should use policy tools
including exchange rates to reduce those imbalances.  The greenback slid versus 14 of its 16 major counterparts
as Geithner said in a letter obtained by Bloomberg News that
countries should not to use their currencies to win competitive
advantages. The dollar dropped against the yen on speculation
that the Federal Reserve will expand monetary easing at the next
Federal Open Market Committee Meeting in early November.  “Geithner wants them to import more,” said  Lee Wai Tuck ,
a currency strategist at Forecast Pte in Singapore. “His
comments seem to be the trigger for the dollar’s losses. It
could mean strengthening in other currencies.”  The dollar declined to $1.3964 per euro as of 7:33 a.m. in
London from $1.3920 in New York yesterday. It fell to 81.08 yen
from 81.33 yen. The euro bought 113.23 yen from 113.22 yen.  In a letter to his G-20 counterparts, Geithner said
officials “should commit to undertake policies consistent with
reducing external imbalances below a specified share of GDP over
the next few years.”  G-20 Meeting  Finance chiefs and central bankers will say after G-20
talks conclude in Gyeongju, South Korea, tomorrow they want a
“more market-determined exchange rate system that minimizes
adverse effects of excess volatility and disorderly movements in
exchange rates,” the G-20 official said. They will refrain from
“competitive undervaluation” of currencies, the official said.  The yen rose against the dollar as Japanese Finance
Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said it isn’t clear yet if the G-20
statement will refer to foreign-exchange issues.  Noda told reporters in Gyeongju that G-20 nations need to
share concern about competitive devaluation, but added it’s
still unclear if or how currencies will be mentioned in the
group’s statement. The G-20 encompasses Japan, the U.S., Canada,
the U.K., Germany, Italy and France and the biggest emerging
economies, including Russia, India, Brazil, and China.  “The failure of the G-20 to agree on the foreign-exchange
issue and include them in the communiqué will baffle investors
and make it harder for them to make new bets on any
currencies,” said  Daisaku Ueno , president in Tokyo at
Gaitame.com Research Institute Ltd., a unit of Japan’s largest
currency margin company.  Fed Outlook  The dollar traded near a 15-year low against the yen on
speculation Fed policy makers will signal in the coming week
that further credit-easing measures are needed to support growth.  The Fed snapped up $300 billion of Treasuries in 2009 under
a policy known as quantitative easing, or QE. Traders preparing
for another round of buying have dubbed it QE2.  St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  yesterday proposed
the central bank buy $100 billion in long-term Treasuries next
month and calibrate subsequent purchases based on the course of
economic recovery. Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser 
speaks today, and Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and New York Fed
President  William Dudley  speak on Oct. 25.  “The market’s focus could quickly turn to the upcoming Fed
meeting after the G-20,” said  Yuji Saito , director of the
foreign-exchange department at Credit Agricole Corporate and
Investment Bank in Tokyo. “The Fed is likely to do QE2. The G-
20 may not get a substantive agreement on currencies. The trend
for the dollar to weaken could persist.”  Interest-rate futures contracts on the Chicago Board of
Trade showed a 32 percent chance U.S. policy makers will cut the
target lending rate to zero by January. The probability was 26
percent a month ago. The key U.S. rate has been at a range of
zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yasuhiko Seki  in Tokyo at 
 yseki5@bloomberg.net ;
 Ron Harui  in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 