-- Dollar Pares Drop Versus Euro on Fewer Bets Against Greenback Before G-20
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2010-10-21T13:35:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/dollar-pares-drop-versus-euro-on-fewer-bets-against-greenback-before-g-20.html
The dollar pared its decline against
the euro as investors reduced bets that the U.S. currency will
fall before the Group of 20 meeting in South Korea.  Sterling slid to a six-month low versus the euro on
speculation the Bank of England will step up quantitative
easing. Global finance ministers are planning to say members
will refrain from “competitive undervaluation” of currencies
to soothe trade tensions, an official from a G-20 country said,
citing a draft statement and speaking on condition of anonymity.  “There’s a suggestion that there will be some accord
afterward that we won’t devalue our currencies,” said  Andrew Wilkinson , senior market analyst at Interactive Brokers Group
LLC in Greenwich, Connecticut. “That would be a potential
dollar-positive move.”  The dollar traded at $1.3995 per euro at 9:22 a.m. in New
York, compared with $1.3964 yesterday, after earlier dropping
0.6 percent. The dollar appreciated 0.1 percent to 81.21 yen,
from 81.09. The euro gained 0.3 percent to 113.55 yen, from
113.23.  Finance ministers and central bankers will say after talks
conclude in Gyeongju, South Korea, on Oct. 23 that they want a
“more market-determined exchange rate system that minimizes
adverse effects of excess volatility and disorderly movements in
exchange rates,” the G-20 official said today.  The Wall Street Journal cited Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  as saying major currencies are “in alignment” and he’ll
work to persuade leaders that the U.S. isn’t trying to weaken
the dollar.  Treasury Report  The U.S. Treasury delayed a report on foreign-exchange
markets last week, saying the yuan remained undervalued and that
China needed to show continued commitment to allowing the
currency to rise against the dollar over time. The yuan has
appreciated about 2 percent since a two-year peg against the
dollar was scrapped June 19.  The  Dollar Index , used by IntercontinentalExchange Inc. to
track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners including the euro and yen, fell less than 0.1
percent to 77.116, from 77.171 yesterday.  The gauge of the greenback has dropped 4.3 percent since
Sept. 21, when the Fed said in a statement following its policy
meeting that it’s prepared “to provide additional accommodation
if needed” to support the recovery. The Fed is next due to
decide on monetary policy Nov. 2-3.  Deutsche Bank raised its estimate for the euro to $1.45 for
both the end of the year and the end of the first quarter next
year, up from $1.30 and $1.35 respectively,  Bilal Hafeez , global
head of foreign-exchange strategy in London, said today in a
research note. His prediction for the end of next year is $1.30,
according to the note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  