-- Dollar Rises as Geithner Suggests No Need for More Weakness; Aussie Slips
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2010-10-21T07:24:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/dollar-rises-after-geithner-tells-wsj-major-currencies-are-in-alignment-.html
The dollar strengthened against 
most of its major counterparts after reported comments by U.S. 
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  suggested he sees no 
need for further weakness in the currency.  The  greenback  gained after the Wall Street Journal cited
Geithner as saying major currencies are “in alignment” and
he’ll work to persuade leaders at Group of 20 meetings that the
U.S. is not trying to weaken the dollar. Australia’s dollar
pared yesterday’s surge after Chinese data added to the case for
Asia’s biggest economy to take more tightening measures.  “Excessive expectations for a weaker dollar seem to be
waning before the G-20 meeting,” said  Kazuyuki Kato , treasury
department manager in Tokyo at Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., a
unit of Japan’s second-largest publicly traded lender by assets.
“Developing nations have voiced their concerns about a weaker
U.S. dollar.”  The dollar rose to as high as 81.83 yen before trading at
81.10 yen as of 8:17 a.m. in London, from 81.09 yen in New York
yesterday, when it touched 80.85, the weakest since April 1995,
when the post-World War II low of 79.75 was set. The dollar
appreciated to $1.3956 per euro, from $1.3964. The yen traded at
113.18 per euro, from 113.23.  The yen remains stronger than the 82.88 per dollar level it
reached on Sept. 15 when Japan acknowledged selling the currency
to help its export-dependent economy.  G-20 Meeting  G-20 nations’ finance ministers and central bankers meet
this week in South Korea to discuss currencies, government
stimulus efforts and other economic policies. Geithner will use
the meetings to help “rebalance” the world economy to be less
reliant on U.S. consumers, the Journal said, citing an
interview.  “Geithner’s comments are giving a knee-jerk boost for the
dollar,” said  Takashi Kudo , general manager of market
information service at NTT SmartTrade Inc., a unit of Nippon
Telegraph & Telephone Corp. in Tokyo.  Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  this week said
that nations trying to defend their exports must end the
“currency war,” while the nation raised taxes on foreign
investments in fixed-income securities for the second time in a
month to curb gains in the real.  Gains in the dollar were limited as signs the U.S. labor
market remains fragile may prompt the Federal Reserve to ease
monetary policy further.  Fed Policy Outlook  U.S. continuing jobless claims rose to 4.42 million in the
week to Oct. 9 from 4.40 million, according to the median
estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey before the
Labor Department releases the data today. The Conference Board’s
index of leading indicators rose 0.3 percent in September, the
same pace as in August, according to another Bloomberg survey
before today’s data.  “People certainly expect the Fed to do some kind of
additional easing in November,” said  Hitoshi Asaoka , senior
strategist at Mizuho Trust & Banking Co. in Tokyo. “They will
maintain their policy of easing for a while, not just a short
period.”  The Fed said yesterday in its Beige Book business survey by
the 12 regional banks that 8 of them, including San Francisco
and Chicago, reported some form of growth. The Philadelphia and
Richmond Feds said their economies were “mixed” while the
Cleveland region “held steady” and the Atlanta district
“remained slow.”  Interest-rate futures contracts on the Chicago Board of
Trade showed a 33 percent chance U.S. policy makers would cut
the target lending rate to zero by January. The probability was
25 percent a month ago. The key U.S. rate has been at a range of
zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  ‘Quite Sensitive’  The so-called Aussie slipped against its U.S. counterpart
as China’s economy expanded 9.6 percent in the third quarter and
its consumer price index rose 3.6 percent in September, stoking
inflation concern.  “There are worries over China’s growth because of its
large impact on the world,” said  Marito Ueda , senior marketing
director at FX Prime Corp., a foreign-exchange margin company in
Tokyo. “Quickening inflation would likely lead to selling of
equities. The Australian dollar could be sold.”  The MSCI  Asia Pacific Index  of regional shares slipped 0.1
percent and the  Nikkei 225  Stock Average declined 0.1 percent.  China increased its benchmark lending and deposit rates on
Oct. 19 after inflation accelerated to the fastest pace in 22
months. The one-year deposit rate will climb to 2.5 percent from
2.25 percent, the People’s Bank of China said on its website.  Australia’s dollar fell to 98.33 U.S. cents, from 98.71
cents. It rose to $1.0004 on Oct. 15, the highest since the
currency was freely floated in 1983. The Aussie dropped to 79.76
yen, from 80.04 yen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 