-- Credit Suisse CEO Sees Improvement in Client Trading
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a   a n d   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r
-- 2010-10-21T15:57:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/dougan-more-optimistic-on-client-activity-in-coming-quarters.html
Credit Suisse Group AG  expects
clients to trade more in coming quarters after “challenging
conditions” in the past three months contributed to a 74
percent profit slump, Chief Executive Officer  Brady Dougan  said.  “The most challenging aspects for our business were first
of all customer flows,” Dougan said in a Bloomberg Television
interview in Zurich today. “Our view is that these levels of
activities that we’ve seen in the third quarter are not
normalized levels going forward. We have a more optimistic view
of the industry over the next few quarters.”  A reduction in risk-taking leaves Credit Suisse,
Switzerland’s second-largest bank, more reliant on client
trading than competitors who take more positions for their own
account, Dougan said. The bank had a sharper drop in third-
quarter trading revenue than U.S. firms except  Morgan Stanley ,
and hasn’t cut compensation at the securities unit enough to
offset the decline in sales.  “The investment bank is the main driver of disappointment
due to equities and poor compensation ratio,” JPMorgan Chase &
Co. analysts led by  Kian Abouhossein  said in a note. “We will
probably have to cut earnings per share by several percentage
points based on back-of-the-envelope calculations.”  Credit Suisse shares  fell  4.5 percent after saying net
income fell to 609 million Swiss francs ($630 million) from 2.35
billion francs a year earlier. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
estimated earnings at the Zurich-based bank of 861 million
francs.  Compensation Costs  Trading revenue slumped 41 percent to 2.54 billion francs,
missing analysts’ forecast for 3 billion francs. Goldman Sachs,
Citigroup Inc.,  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and Morgan Stanley, all
based in New York, as well as Charlotte, North Carolina-based
Bank of America Corp., on average reported a 24 percent decline
in trading revenue in the third quarter from a year earlier,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Credit Suisse cut compensation costs at the securities unit
by 12 percent from a year earlier. The ratio of compensation to
revenue rose to 55 percent from 42 percent a year ago and 49
percent in the second quarter. Having increased the fixed pay,
as demanded by financial regulators, the bank now has less
flexibility in adjusting costs, Dougan told analysts today.  The reduction in earnings, which included a 589 million-
franc pretax charge on the bank’s own debt, probably means that
Credit Suisse will have to cut its dividend payment to about 1.5
francs a share for this year from 2 francs for 2009, said
 Christopher Wheeler , an analyst at Mediobanca SpA.  “It’s a little bit of a shock,” he said.  ‘Abnormally Weak’  Credit Suisse fell 1.93 francs to 41.41 francs in Zurich
trading. The stock is down 19 percent this year, compared with a
2.1 percent decline in the 54-company Bloomberg  Europe Banks and
Financial Services Index . UBS AG, the largest Swiss bank, has
gained 9.6 percent in 2010.  “July was particularly and perhaps abnormally weak,
especially in investment banking,”  David Mathers , Credit
Suisse’s chief financial officer, told journalists on a
conference call. “August was also weak, but I think that would
be more what you’d expect given the normal seasonal patterns.
And then September did show some improvement from that.”  Client activity in October so far has been “more in line
with September,” Mathers said. He added that the bank is seeing
benefits from recent hiring for the securities unit, while
earnings were burdened in the quarter by the strengthening of
the Swiss franc against the U.S. dollar.  ‘Disciplined’  The equities sales and trading business, which posted the
second-highest revenue in the first half of the year behind
Goldman Sachs, saw revenue drop 41 percent to 1.08 billion
francs in the quarter, the lowest level since the end of 2008.  Fixed-income sales and trading revenue slumped to 1.46
billion francs from 2.48 billion francs a year ago. The results
were helped by “strong” revenue in U.S. residential mortgage-
backed securities trading and credit businesses, the bank said.  Credit Suisse, which aims to gain market share in debt
trading, will be “disciplined” on further investments at the
investment bank if market challenges persist, Dougan, 51, said.
The bank wants to be in the top five in all regions in credit,
rates and foreign-exchange trading and boosted sales staffing in
each of those areas this year.  The investment bank’s  pretax profit  dropped 77 percent to
395 million francs, missing analysts’ estimates of 756 million
francs. Earnings at the wealth management unit fell 15 percent
to 612 million francs, while the business attracted 12.4 billion
francs in net new assets. Corporate and institutional clients
unit posted a 56 percent jump in profit to 224 million francs,
and asset management’s earnings fell 57 percent to 135 million
francs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elena Logutenkova  in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  