-- Dozing Chinese Shoppers Filling Ikea Beds Spur Expansion Plans
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-21T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/dozing-chinese-shoppers-filling-ikea-beds-spur-plans-to-double-outlets.html
Yang Shuqi paces up and down Ikea’s
Beijing store, looking for a “small bed with toys” for her
grandson. She doesn’t plan to buy it -- 1-year-old Beibei just
needs to take a nap.  Saturday afternoon is a bad time to look. Every bed in the
43,000-square-meter (463,000-square-foot) store is occupied,
with some children and adults fast asleep under the covers. The
local outlet of the world’s No. 1 home-furnishings  retailer  is
always full on weekends, Yang said.  Ikea, whose biggest Asian store is in China, plans to more
than double its outlets in the country by 2015 as  rising incomes 
turn more dozing visitors and diners at in-store restaurants
into furniture buyers. The home-furnishings market is projected
by Euromonitor International to surge 17 percent this year in
China, the world’s fastest-growing major economy.  “The idea is that maybe if you’ve been visiting  Ikea ,
eating meatballs, hot dogs or ice cream for 10 years, then maybe
you will consider Ikea when you get yourself a sofa,”  Ian Duffy , the company’s Asia-Pacific president, said in an
interview in Wuhan, central China. “Some people just come for
food; that’s OK. For them, it’s an experience.”  Retail Growth  Ikea said this month it will add $300 million to the $1.2
billion being spent by a mall developer part-owned by the
furnishings company, as the chain increases its stores in China
to 18 from 8. The retailer also has three outlets in Hong Kong
among more than 300 worldwide.  China’s economic transformation lifted 300 million citizens
out of poverty during the past three decades, according to the
 United Nations . The growing prosperity will help the nation’s
home-furnishings market expand to 186.9 billion yuan ($28
billion) this year, according to data from Euromonitor.  “Government stimulus spending and favorable policies
toward retailing and consumer lending have encouraged overall
retail growth in China,” said Alex Liu, an analyst at
Euromonitor in Shanghai. New financing options will help
consumers who use credit to buy big items, including Ikea
products, he said.  Ikea, founded in Sweden in 1943 by  Ingvar Kamprad , entered
mainland China in 1998. Kamprad, 84, and his family have an
estimated net worth of $23 billion, according to Forbes, placing
them 11th on the magazine’s  list of billionaires .  ‘Like You’re Abroad’  Bilanz magazine on Dec. 4 estimated his wealth at $35
billion, topping its list of richest Swiss residents.  The retailer’s Scandinavian-design furniture and in-store
cafeterias serving Western food are helping it tap the economic
boom in China, which more than tripled per-capita  gross domestic
product  in the past decade.  “I like the environment,” said Zhang Xihua, a 62-year-old
retired schoolteacher from the eastern city of Wenzhou. “It
makes you feel like you’re abroad.”  A trip to Ikea’s store in the northeastern section of
Beijing is part of her routine when she visits her son, she
said.  Ikea has the biggest share of China’s home-furnishings
market, at about 7 percent, according to Euromonitor. The
company doesn’t provide sales data for its stores in the
country.  China’s  real-estate boom  also is bringing customers to
Ikea, said Torsten Stocker, a partner at Monitor Group, a
consulting company in Shanghai.  Taking Pictures  Property sales in the first nine months of this year rose
15.9 percent from a year earlier to 3.19 trillion yuan, the
nation’s statistics bureau said Oct. 15.  “A lot of people bought their apartments and wanted to
decorate them over the last few years, which helped the home-
furnishings category expand,” Stocker said.  Even after years of record-breaking economic growth,
China’s per-capita gross national income ranked 120th by
purchasing power last year, according to  data  from the World
Bank.  For Ikea, boosting sales will involve persuading customers
such as Xu Nan, a 22-year-old college student, to make more
purchases.  “I’m still living in a dorm, but I want my future home to
look like this,” said Xu, spending a Saturday afternoon
lounging on the furniture and taking pictures with her
classmates in the Beijing store.  ‘Just for Fun’  Xu and her friends took turns posing on a black Vreta sofa
that sells for 7,999 yuan -- 31 percent of China’s per-capita
GDP last year, or about two months’  salary  for a typical
government employee.  Even if customers like Xu aren’t buying furniture yet, they
are establishing a connection to the Ikea brand, Stocker said.  “They just want to experience the furniture to see what
it’s like,” he said. “Ultimately, purchasing power will
increase in China, and more and more people will be able to
afford it.”  Duffy said that growing power already is evident.  “Over the last 10 years, we’ve seen a very big change in
the number of visitors that become customers,” he said. “Most
people buy something today.”  Wang Ran, a 28-year-old office worker, said he and his
fiancee visit the Beijing store every weekend to get furnishings
for the 60-square-meter apartment they bought earlier this year.  He has spent more than 10,000 yuan on items including a
“Karlstad” sofa and a series of “Abstrakt” kitchen products.  “I think people of my generation like Ikea’s Nordic
style,” Wang said.  Yang, who didn’t find a bed for her grandson, said she and
her family go to Ikea every month.  “We don’t need furniture for our home now, but we still
visit here very often, just for fun,” she said.  -- Michael Wei . Editors:  Frank Longid ,  Terje Langeland .  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Michael Wei in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7717 or
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  