-- Drugmakers Eager to Diversify Suppliers Help A10 Soar
-- B y   A n t o n e   G o n s a l v e s
-- 2010-10-21T18:09:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/drugmakers-eager-to-diversify-suppliers-help-a10-soar.html
In 1987,  Leah Brown  lost an uncle to AIDS. His death left Brown,
then a law student at Rutgers University, frustrated and deeply disappointed that drugs
to treat the deadly disease were not yet available. The stinging memory of losing her
“very best friend” stuck with Brown, inspiring the contract research company she
founded 18 years later, in 2005, to assist in medical research and the development of
new drugs.  With 13 years in sales in IT consulting within the health-care industry, Brown launched
A10 Clinical Solutions using around $25,000 in savings, a $150,000 home equity line of
credit, and a $25,000 loan from her mom. (Brown eventually paid her mom back at 8
percent interest.) In four years, Brown took the Cary (N.C.) company from $300,000 in
revenue to $8.3 million in 2009. By yearend, she plans to increase headcount to 300
and says revenue will more than double, to $20 million, and hit $30 million in 2011.
Even better, as far as Brown, a 46-year-old black woman, is concerned: She founded
the company herself without any venture capital. “It’s pretty rare,” she says.  While Brown is a rarity in the industry, her company is also unique because it brings its
customers a diversity of races through A10’s clinical researchers and staff. This is
important in human drug trials, because it helps make other minorities feel comfortable
and therefore more likely to complete trials, Brown says. While she does not have exact
numbers, no race dominates A10’s staff, which is 70 percent women. In general, a large
portion of A10’s work involves monitoring drug trials and overseeing the interaction
between physicians and patients to make sure the trials are not compromised.  From Paper to Electronics  A10 got its first big break in 2006 when Brown landed a contract with Talecris
Biotherapeutics, a company in Research Triangle Park, N.C., that develops medical
treatments based on blood plasma. The job of taking paperwork from clinical drug trials
and transferring it into electronic format was supposed to last three weeks. Instead, the
project went on for a year and brought in $100,000. The next break came later that year
when drugmaker Merck agreed to list A10 as a preferred supplier, which made it
possible for Brown to bid for jobs.  Brown’s entry into Merck and Talecris came through programs in which the companies
were actively looking for minority-owned businesses to diversify their service suppliers.
“It opened the door, but it did not close the business,” she says. Brown met
representatives from the companies at separate conferences designed to connect large
corporations with minority-run companies. She met Merck’s director of supplier diversity,
Jackie La Joie, at a conference sponsored by the National Minority Supplier
Development Council. They became friends and in 2008 started the Diversity Alliance
for Science, a nonprofit group dedicated to mentoring and helping women and
minorities build businesses in the life sciences. The group’s membership includes 300
companies run by women, minorities, disabled veterans, and gays.  Today, running drug trials for such clients as GlaxoSmithKline, Johnson &amp; Johnson
Services, and Amgen makes up roughly 80 percent of A10’s business. The rest involves
mostly contract research for government agencies, such as the National Institutes of
Health and the Centers for Disease Control. A10 recently won a 12-year CDC contract
to monitor the health of children who lived in government-issued trailers following
Hurricane Katrina in 2005. (The temporary housing was later found to have high levels
of formaldehyde, which pending lawsuits claim was responsible for respiratory and other
health problems.)  Avoiding Science Minutiae  While Brown’s researchers and staff handle customers’ projects, she spends most of
her time setting strategy, managing growth, and bringing in new business. “The most
important thing is to get out there selling,” she says. “That’s the reason our company
has been successful. I never got caught up in the minutiae of the science.”  Among contract research businesses, A10 is tiny compared with Covance,
Pharmaceutical Product Development, and Quintiles, which have thousands of
employees, as much as $2 billion in revenue, and resources to manage all phases of a
drug trial or research project. Last month, Covance reached a 10-year, $2.2 billion deal
with Sanofi-Aventis, France’s biggest pharmaceutical company. Such deals are likely to
make it harder for A10 and other small companies, says  David Windley , financial
analyst for Jefferies & Co. “I have a pretty hard time understanding how an A10 stays in
the game.”  That’s why Brown is expanding into other businesses. A10 recently entered a
partnership with a small health-care company to run in-house clinics for technology
companies. The clinic-operating business is small, just five clinics so far, making up less
than 5 percent of A10’s revenue. With rising health-care costs pushing companies
toward programs for preventive medicine, however, Brown expects the market to grow.
Windley agrees that supplying such services could become a substantial business for
companies like A10.  Whether A10 can continue to grow at such a torrid pace will depend on Brown’s
success in starting new ventures and grabbing projects that complement the work of
large contract research businesses. Meantime, Brown is content knowing she’s making
a contribution in medicine. “I believe I’m doing something real, and I think Uncle Allen
would be really proud of me. I know he would,” she says.  To contact the reporter on this story: Antone Gonsalves at  antoneg@pacbell.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Nick Leiber at
 nleiber@bloomberg.net  