-- Leading Index Probably Rose in Sign of Sustained U.S. Recovery
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2010-10-21T04:01:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/leading-index-probably-rose-in-september-signaling-sustained-u-s-rebound.html
The index of U.S. leading indicators
probably climbed in September for the third straight month,
signaling the recovery will extend into 2011, economists said
before reports today.  The Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook for the next
three to six months rose 0.3 percent, according to the median
estimate of 57 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Another
report may show the number of Americans filing  applications  for
jobless benefits dropped last week.  Gains in consumer spending, business investment and  exports 
may keep the world’s largest economy afloat even as housing
remains depressed. At the same time, growth will probably not be
strong enough to reduce  unemployment , underscoring why Federal
Reserve policy makers have said additional stimulus may be
needed.  “The soft patch in the economy is starting to lift, and
prospects for improved, more sustainable growth are rising,”
said  John Herrmann , senior fixed-income strategist at State
Street Global Markets LLC in Boston. “But we still need
stimulus. The underlying recovery is still too fragile.”  The New York-based Conference Board, a private research
group, will release its report at 10 a.m. Bloomberg survey
estimates ranged from gains of 0.1 percent to 0.6 percent.  The Labor Department’s report on jobless claims is due at
8:30 a.m. The median forecast of economists  surveyed  calls for a
declined to 455,000 from 462,000 the prior week. Estimates
ranged from 430,000 to 465,000.  Rising Shares  The Standard & Poor’s 500  index  has climbed 3.2 percent
this month as some Fed officials said they were prepared to pump
more cash into the economy to spur the recovery, a tactic known
as quantitative easing. The gauge jumped 8.8 percent in
September.  “There would appear -- all else being equal -- to be a
case for further action,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in
an Oct. 15 speech. The recovery is likely to be “fairly modest
in the near term,” and “the preconditions for a pickup in
growth next year remain in place,” he said.  Seven of the 10 indicators that make up the leading index
are known ahead of time: stock prices, jobless claims, building
permits, consumer expectations, the yield curve, factory hours
and supplier delivery times.  The Conference Board estimates new orders for consumer
goods, bookings for capital goods and the money supply adjusted
for inflation.  ‘Gradual Recovery’  CSX Corp. , the second-largest publicly traded U.S.
railroad, last week said third-quarter profit increased 43
percent, topping analysts’ estimates, as rising automotive
shipments boosted rail volumes.  Except for housing, “we’re seeing things continue their
gradual recovery,” Chief Executive Officer  Michael Ward  said in
an interview on Oct. 13.  The economy isn’t creating enough jobs to cut unemployment,
which is hovering near 10 percent.  President  Barack Obama  and the Democrats are confronted
with voter anger over the state of the economy less than two
weeks before the congressional election. An Oct. 7-10 Bloomberg
National Poll shows almost two-thirds of voters believe the
country is on the wrong track and unemployment is the top
concern for about half the electorate.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  