-- U.S. Leading Economic Indicators Increase for Third Month
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2010-10-21T14:07:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/leading-economic-indicators-in-u-s-rise-in-sign-recovery-is-sustainable.html
The index of U.S. leading indicators
rose in September for the third straight month, signaling the
recovery will extend into 2011.  The 0.3 percent increase in the New York-based Conference
Board’s gauge of the outlook for the next three to six months
matched the median forecast of 57 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Another report showed the number of claims for
jobless benefits fell last week to a level consistent with
little improvement in the labor market.  Gains in consumer spending, business investment and  exports 
may keep the world’s largest economy afloat even as housing
remains depressed. At the same time, growth will probably not be
strong enough to reduce  unemployment , underscoring why some
Federal Reserve policy makers have said additional stimulus may
be needed.  “We’re clearly on an expansion path,”  Chris Rupkey ,
chief financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.
in New York, said before the report. “But we’re still short of
a normal recovery. The economy is not growing fast enough to put
all those millions of unemployed people back to work.”  Manufacturing in the Philadelphia Fed region expanded this
month for the first time since July as factory payrolls grew, a
report from the branch of the central bank also showed today.
The general economic index rose to 1 from minus 0.7 in
September. Figures greater than zero signal growth.  Fewer Claims  Claims  for unemployment insurance benefits declined by
23,000 to 452,000 in the week ended Oct. 15, Labor Department
figures showed today. The prior week’s figures were revised up
by 13,000, to the highest level since late August.  The pace of firings has been little changed since the start
of the year, indicating unemployment will be slow to recede. A
Fed report yesterday showed the economy is growing at a “modest
pace” with companies still hesitant to hire, a reason central
bankers may ease monetary policy.  Stocks held earlier gains after the reports. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.5 percent to 1,183.6 at 10:04 a.m. in
New York. Treasury securities fell, sending the yield on the
benchmark 10-year note up to 2.51 percent from 2.48 percent late
yesterday.  Estimates for the leading index in the Bloomberg survey
ranged from gains of 0.1 percent to 0.6 percent. The Conference
Board revised the gain in August down to 0.1 percent from its
0.3 percent previous estimate.  Fewer Claims  Five of the 10 indicators in the leading index contributed
to the increase, led by the interest-rate spread between the
overnight federal funds rate and the yield on the 10-year
Treasury note.  Equity gains also propelled the gauge and continue to
signal sustained growth. The Standard & Poor’s 500 index has
climbed 3.2 percent in the first 20 days of this month on
growing speculation the Fed will pump more cash into the economy
to spur the recovery, a tactic known as quantitative easing.  “There would appear -- all else being equal -- to be a
case for further action,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in
an Oct. 15 speech. The recovery is likely to be “fairly modest
in the near term,” and “the preconditions for a pickup in
growth next year remain in place,” he said.  Declining Components  Three of the index components retreated, led by a measure
of supplier deliveries that signaled orders cooled.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan index of
consumer expectations which fell to 60.9, the lowest since March
2009, subtracted 0.06 points from the gauge. Building permits
dropped in September to the lowest level in more than a year.  The Conference Board’s index of coincident indicators, a
gauge of current economic activity, was unchanged in September
for a second month. The gauge tracks payrolls, incomes, sales
and production -- the measures used by the National Bureau of
Economic Research to determine the beginning and end of U.S.
recessions.  The gauge of lagging indicators increased 0.4 percent last
month. The index measures business lending, length of
unemployment, service prices and ratios of labor costs,
inventories and consumer credit.  Component Breakdown  Seven of the 10 indicators that make up the leading index
are known ahead of time: stock prices, jobless claims, building
permits, consumer expectations, the yield curve, factory hours
and supplier delivery times.  The Conference Board estimates new orders for consumer
goods, bookings for capital goods and the money supply adjusted
for inflation.  CSX Corp. , the second-largest publicly traded U.S.
railroad, last week said third-quarter profit increased 43
percent, topping analysts’ estimates, as rising automotive
shipments boosted rail volumes.  Except for housing, “we’re seeing things continue their
gradual recovery,” Chief Executive Officer  Michael Ward  said in
an interview on Oct. 13.  The economy isn’t creating enough jobs to cut unemployment,
which is hovering near 10 percent.  President  Barack Obama  and the Democrats are confronted
with voter anger over the state of the economy less than two
weeks before the congressional election. An Oct. 7-10 Bloomberg
National Poll shows almost two-thirds of voters believe the
country is on the wrong track and unemployment is the top
concern for about half the electorate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  