-- East Europe Needs Better Bank Regulation to Avoid Credit Bubbles, IMF Says
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2010-10-21T09:51:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/east-europe-needs-better-bank-regulation-to-avoid-credit-bubbles-imf-says.html
East European governments must
improve bank supervision and cut spending to prevent another
credit boom as the region emerges from the global financial
crisis, the International Monetary Fund said.  “It’s important to prevent the re-emergence of credit
booms,”  Bas Bakker , head of the IMF’s Emerging Europe division,
said yesterday in an interview in Vienna. “The countries that
had the biggest boom in pre-crisis years” are the ones that now
“see the most sluggish recovery,” he said.  The former communist countries in Europe and central Asia
are recovering from their deepest recessions since switching to
free-market policies two decades ago. Cheap credit helped growth
average 5 percent annually in the boom years. By August 2010,
the IMF had provided $70.7 billion of loans to the region,
making it the largest recipient of bailouts.  Policies that may help prevent credit bubbles include
better bank supervision, including oversight by the home
countries of foreign banks active in the region, curtailing
loans in foreign currencies, reduced government spending during
good times, and macroeconomic policies that allow interest rates
to stay low, Bakker said.  Economic growth across the region should average  3.9
percent this year  and 3.8 percent in 2011 after gross domestic
product shrank 6 percent in 2009, the IMF said yesterday in its
regional outlook. Romania, Croatia, Montenegro and Latvia will
contract this year, and Bulgaria will stagnate. All the
countries will return to growth in 2011, the forecast showed.  Export-Led Recovery  Rising exports to western Europe, the main market for the
region’s goods, is driving the expansion. High unemployment,
falling wages and a dearth of credit has held back domestic
demand in several of the countries, Bakker said.  Rising bad debts, high funding costs and weak consumer
confidence have held back bank lending in the region, Bakker
said. In Ukraine, Romania, Serbia, Latvia and Lithuania, more
than 15 percent of all loans were non-performing at the end of
last year, according to the IMF.  “Credit growth needs to be revived,” he said. “Without
credit growth, domestic demand is likely to stay weak and the
recovery is going to remain weak.”  Bakker said he expects the rise in bad loans to peak soon.  “Most of emerging Europe is now starting to pick up” and
non-performing loans “are either close to peaking or they
probably will peak in 2011,” he said. “In countries where
growth is still negative, it may take a little longer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net . 