-- EBay Plans $1.5 Billion of Debt in Debut Offering
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i   a n d   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2010-10-21T17:57:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/ebay-plans-1-5-billion-of-debt-in-three-parts-in-debut-offering.html
EBay Inc. , owner of the second-most
visited e-commerce site, plans $1.5 billion of debt in its first
offering, taking advantage of record-low borrowing costs.  The bonds may be issued as soon as today, according to a
person familiar with the transaction. The San Jose, California-
based company’s board approved $1.5 billion of debt “to
capitalize on historically low U.S. interest rates and maintain
financial flexibility,” Chief Financial Officer  Bob Swan  said
yesterday in a conference call with analysts.  EBay is tapping the debt market after companies from Wal-
Mart Stores Inc. to Microsoft Corp. sold securities at the
lowest coupons on record. The average yield on investment-grade
company bonds fell to 3.6 percent yesterday, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S. Corporate Master index, near the
3.56 percent on Oct. 8, the lowest since the daily measure was
made available in October 1986.  “They’re probably trying to get some cheap money and find
some investments, whether it’s a stock or something else,” said
 Lon Erickson , a money manager who helps oversee $9 billion of
fixed-income assets for Thornburg Investment Management Inc. in
Santa Fe, New Mexico. “It’ll probably be pretty cheap to find a
lot of projects that more than compensate for the debt.”  Stock Repurchase  Proceeds from the 3-, 5- and 10-year notes will be used for
general corporate purposes, which may include working capital,
acquisitions and capital expenditures, EBay said today in a
regulatory filing that didn’t include the size or timing of the
sale.  A $400 million portion of 3-year notes may yield 42 basis
points, or 4.2 percentage points, more than similar-maturity
Treasuries; $600 million of 5-year debt may pay a spread of 57
basis points; and $500 million of 10-year securities may yield
77 basis points more than benchmarks, said the person familiar
with the offering, who declined to be identified because terms
aren’t set.  The  weighted cost of capital  for EBay prior to the offering
was 11.54 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
After this sale, the cost will drop to 11.07 percent, the data
show. The debt is graded A2 by Moody’s Investors Service and A
by Standard & Poor’s, according to notes from the ratings
company today.  Relative Yields  EBay’s notes may carry lower relative yields than similar
securities from other issuers. The average A rated corporate
bond maturing in three to five years pays a spread of 154 basis
points, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.
AA rated bonds due in the same time period have a spread of 111
basis points, the data show.  The company is marketing the securities after yesterday
saying sales will be $2.39 billion to $2.49 billion this quarter
and that profit, excluding stock-option costs and other
expenses, will be 45 cents to 48 cents a share. Analysts in a
Bloomberg survey had projected revenue of $2.41 billion and
earnings of 44 cents.  The EBay board also approved a $2 billion stock repurchase,
following a $300 million buyback in the third quarter. The
company has $6.1 billion in cash, with about $115 million in the
U.S., Swan said on the call.  EBay rose $1.90, or 7.4 percent, to $27.56 at 1:52 p.m. in
New York on the Nasdaq Stock Market, after climbing to as much
as $28.44 for its biggest intraday gain in more than a year.
Before today, the stock had advanced 9.1 percent in 2010.  EBay had no secured or unsecured debt outstanding as of
Sept. 30, it said in today’s filing.  “It speaks to the environment of where high-quality, well-
rated credits are trading and the level of Treasury rates,”
Thornburg’s Erickson said of the proposed sale.  The most visited e-commerce site is Amazon.com Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sapna Maheshwari  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net ;
 Tim Catts  in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  