-- EBay Rises as Forecast Exceeds Analysts' Estimates
-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e
-- 2010-10-21T13:40:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/ebay-shares-advance-after-forecast-exceeds-analysts-estimates.html
EBay Inc. , owner of the second-most
visited e-commerce site, had its biggest gain in 15 months in
Nasdaq trading after forecasting fourth-quarter sales and
earnings that exceeded analysts’ estimates.  Sales will be $2.39 billion to $2.49 billion this quarter,
EBay said yesterday when it reported third-quarter results.
Excluding stock-option costs and other expenses, profit will be
45 cents to 48 cents a share. Analysts in a Bloomberg survey had
projected revenue of $2.41 billion and earnings of 44 cents.  Chief Executive Officer  John Donahoe , halfway through a
three-year campaign to revive growth, has cut listing fees to
lure more sellers and taken steps to make EBay’s main
Marketplaces commerce site easier to use. The company also is
benefitting from more consumers making purchases online and
using PayPal to handle payments.  “There is a lot of positivity here,” said  Sandeep Aggarwal , an analyst at Caris & Co. in San Francisco. “This is
clearly an indication that the EBay turnaround is becoming more
compelling.”  EBay rose $2.72, or 11 percent, to $28.38 at 9:39 a.m. New
York time on the  Nasdaq Stock Market , after climbing as high as
$28.44 for its biggest intraday gain since July 2009. Before
today, the stock had advanced 9.1 percent this year.  The company’s board also approved a $2 billion stock
repurchase, following a $300 million buyback in the third
quarter. The company has $6.1 billion in cash, with about $115
million in the U.S., Chief Financial Officer  Bob Swan  said on a
conference call with analysts.  Boosted Forecast  Third-quarter  profit  was 40 cents a share, excluding some
costs, compared with the 37 cents predicted by analysts. Sales
increased less than 1 percent to $2.25 billion. Analysts had
projected revenue of $2.18 billion.  Net income rose 24 percent to $431.9 million, or 33 cents a
share, from $349.7 million, or 27 cents, a year earlier.  EBay also raised full-year forecasts. Profit excluding
certain costs will be $1.67 to $1.70 a share, with sales of
$9.05 billion to $9.15 billion. In July, EBay predicted earnings
of as much as $1.65 and sales of up to $9 billion.  Retail spending in the U.S. will increase 2.3 percent to
$447.1 billion in November and December, the best year-end in
four years, according to the National Retail Federation.  “EBay’s core EBay.com website is one of the premier e-
commerce properties in the world,”  Fred Moran , an analyst at
Benchmark Co., said in a note to investors this week. “As e-
commerce recovers, growth should accelerate on EBay’s
marketplace.”  PayPal Gains  EBay also benefited from growing demand for its PayPal
payment processing unit. Revenue from the division that includes
PayPal rose 22 percent to $838.2 million. Total payment volume
climbed 26 percent to $22.4 billion.  PayPal accounts for about 37 percent of  EBay’s revenue  and
will eventually be larger than EBay’s e-commerce sites, Donahoe
has said. PayPal is holding a  conference  next week to encourage
developers to build systems that handle purchase and sales of
so-called virtual goods.  “PayPal is in the best position of any payment solutions
to become the de facto currency on the Web,” said  Jordan Rohan ,
an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in New York.  Since PayPal made its software more widely available last
year, developers have generated more than $30 million in payment
volume, Donahoe said in April.  ‘A Marathon’  PayPal, which estimates it controls about 10 percent of the
online payments market, is likely to introduce a mobile version
of its online checkout service for merchants by the end of the
month, according to ThinkEquity LLC.  A big part of Donahoe’s effort to revive growth is making
the main e-commerce site easier to access. Donahoe, who replaced
 Meg Whitman  as CEO in March 2008, has enlisted engineers to
overhaul 25 million lines of software code on EBay’s
Marketplaces.  “We still have an enormous amount of work to do,” Donahoe
said in an interview. “Today was just another positive step
forward in what’s a marathon.”  EBay is conducting an external search for an executive to
replace  Lorrie Norrington , who was in charge of Marketplaces
since 2008. Under Norrington, who’s leaving for family reasons,
EBay lowered listing fees for items and transitioned away from
auction sales, which are losing popularity, to focus on fixed-
price listings.  The changes have led to a surge in the number of products
offered on the site, though revenue growth hasn’t kept pace. The
conversion rate, or the number of visits that result in sales,
at EBay sites declined 1.3 percentage points to 28.5 percent in
the third quarter from the second quarter, according to Majestic
Research LLC.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joseph Galante  in San Francisco at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  