-- EBay Gets Microsoft Borrowing Costs in Debut Bonds
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i   a n d   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2010-10-21T22:27:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/ebay-sells-1-5-billion-of-bonds-in-three-parts-in-debut-sale.html
EBay Inc. , owner of the second-most
visited e-commerce site, made its bond-market debut by tying
 Microsoft Corp.  and PepsiCo Inc. for the second-lowest borrowing
costs on record for three-year notes.  The company issued $400 million of 0.875 percent, 3-year
notes, $600 million of 1.625 percent, 5-year debt and $500
million of 3.25 percent, 10-year securities, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The 3-year note coupon ties with bonds
issued by Microsoft last month and PepsiCo last week, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg, and was higher only than debt
sold by Wal-Mart Stores Inc. on Oct. 18, according to Bank of
America Corp. data.  EBay’s board approved the $1.5 billion of debt yesterday
“to capitalize on historically low U.S. interest rates and
maintain financial flexibility,” Chief Financial Officer  Bob Swan  said yesterday in a conference call with analysts. Average
yields on investment-grade company bonds fell to 3.6 percent
yesterday, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S.
Corporate Master index, near the 3.56 percent on Oct. 8, the
lowest since the daily measure started in October 1986.  “This trade might not happen a couple of years ago,” said
 David Trahan , head of investment-grade syndicate at Citigroup
Inc. in New York. “There wasn’t this kind of belief in this
business model. You can see today that people are pricing it
better than some bricks and mortar.”  Use of Proceeds  Proceeds from EBay’s notes will be used for general
corporate purposes, which may include working capital,
acquisitions and capital expenditures, the San Jose, California-
based company said today in a regulatory filing.  EBay’s 3-year debt yields 42 basis points, or 0.42
percentage point, more than similar-maturity Treasuries, the 5-
year notes pay a spread of 57 basis points, and the 10-year
notes yield 77 basis points more than benchmarks, Bloomberg data
show.  The  weighted cost of capital  for EBay prior to the offering
was 11.54 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
After this sale, the cost will drop to 11.07 percent, the data
show. The debt is graded A2 by Moody’s Investors Service and A
by Standard & Poor’s, according to notes from the ratings
company today.  The notes carry lower relative yields than similar
securities from other issuers. The average A rated corporate
bond maturing in three to five years pays a spread of 154 basis
points, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.
AA rated bonds due in the same time period have a spread of 111
basis points, the data show.  Stock Gains  EBay rose $1.535, or 6 percent, to $27.195 in New York on
the Nasdaq Stock Market. The stock has advanced 16 percent in
2010.  The company had no secured or unsecured debt outstanding as
of Sept. 30, it said in today’s filing.  “They’re probably trying to get some cheap money and find
some investments, whether it’s a stock or something else,” said
 Lon Erickson , a money manager who helps oversee $9 billion of
fixed-income assets for Thornburg Investment Management Inc. in
Santa Fe, New Mexico. “It’ll probably be pretty cheap to find a
lot of projects that more than compensate for the debt.”  “It speaks to the environment of where high-quality, well-
rated credits are trading and the level of Treasury rates,”
Thornburg’s Erickson said of the sale earlier today.  Microsoft, Wal-Mart  Microsoft , the world’s biggest software maker, sold $4.75
billion of bonds on Sept. 22, including $1 billion of 0.875
percent notes due in 2013, Bloomberg data show. It was equaled
by PepsiCo as part of a $2.25 billion issue on Oct. 19.  Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer, sold $5 billion of
debt on Oct. 18, including $750 million of 3-year, 0.75 percent
notes at a 30 basis-point spread. The coupon was the least on
the record for that maturities, according to Bank of America
Corp.  “EBay priced very well on a spread basis relative to the
comparables and rating,” Trahan said. “They outperformed other
comparably rated companies.”  The most visited e-commerce site is Amazon.com Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sapna Maheshwari  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net ;
 Tim Catts  in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  