-- Economy Challenges Caste as India's Bihar State Begins Month-Long Ballot
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c a s k i l l
-- 2010-10-21T09:30:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/economy-challenges-caste-as-india-s-bihar-state-begins-month-long-ballot.html
India’s Bihar began a month of
elections today that will test whether doubling economic growth
is enough to get its chief minister re-elected in a state where
caste and class allegiances have dominated.  By curbing crime, repairing as many as 5,400 kilometers
(3,375 miles) of national highways and district roads, and
raising spending on education and health in one of India’s
poorest states, the government of  Nitish Kumar , 59, raised
economic growth to an annual average of 10.7 percent in the four
years to March 2009, according to the  World Bank . Expansion
averaged 4.5 percent in the previous four-year period, the bank
said.  “Any win for the current government” will reflect popular
endorsement of Kumar’s ability to win “a new lease of life for
the state,” said Shaibal Gupta, secretary of the Patna, Bihar-
based  Asian Development Research Institute .  With Bihar accounting for 40 seats in the 545-seat federal
lower house of parliament in New Delhi, whichever party runs the
state has traditionally influenced national government formation.  The main challenger to Kumar’s Janata Dal (United) is
likely to be  Lalu Prasad , 62, a populist politician and former
federal rail minister, whose Rashtriya Janata Dal campaigns for
the empowerment of lower caste Hindus and the minority Muslim
community. Bihar has 83 million people, more than the population
of Germany.  “The election results will show whether caste-based
politics will now take a back seat,” Gupta said.  Kidnap, Murder  Prasad’s party, which ruled the state for 15 years up to
November 2005, has 54 seats in the 243-member state assembly to
88 for Kumar. The government in Bihar rules in a coalition with
the main federal opposition Bharatiya Janata Party.  “During Lalu Prasad’s regime, Bihar was completely ruined
in every aspect -- law and order, the economy, health and
education,” Ranjan Prasad Yadav, a federal Janata Dal (United)
lawmaker, said by phone from Patna. “People will not repeat the
previous mistake.”  In 2004, there were 411 cases of  kidnap for ransom ,
according to figures on the Bihar police website, compared to 55
so far in 2010. Murders fell from 3,861 in 2004 to 2,295 this
year.  Five years ago “people were scared to go out after
sunset,” said Sanjay Kumar, a New Delhi-based analyst at the
 Centre for the Study of Developing Societies , who is from Bihar.
“Your car may be stolen, your son may be kidnapped,” he said.  Poor State  While Bihar has 8.5 percent of India’s population it
accounts for 1.6 percent of its gross domestic product, the
World Bank says. Landless farm laborers make nearly half the
workforce, compared to 27 percent nationally. About 52 percent
of its people are illiterate. The state’s per capita income in
the year to March 2008 was a third of the national average.  Elections  will be held in six phases including today’s
voting to make it easier for security forces to protect polling
stations, and will run to Nov. 20. Counting is scheduled for Nov.
24.  “Nitish has fooled everybody. Those who propped him to
power are now feeling betrayed,”  Prasad , a former railway
minister known for his rustic speeches, said in an election
rally last week broadcast on television. “The so-called
development in Bihar is all a sham.”  The  Congress Party  of Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  is
fighting the election on its own and will hope to increase its
percentage of votes, said analyst Sanjay Kumar.  At least 154 of the 635 candidates contesting for 47 seats
in today’s first stage of polling face criminal charges,
 according  to the Association for Democratic Reforms, citing
signed affidavits submitted to the Election Commission.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bibhudatta Pradhan  in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Macaskill  in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at   hgovind@bloomberg.net  