-- Lehman Tells Court Barclays Didn't Disclose Gains in Brokerage Acquisition
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2010-10-21T15:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/lehman-says-barclays-didn-t-disclose-embedded-gains-in-brokerage-deal.html
Barclays Plc took assets it wasn’t
supposed to when it bought bankrupt  Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. ’s brokerage two years ago, and never told the judge, said a
lawyer for the defunct investment firm.  “This is a court of disclosure,”  Robert Gaffey  of Jones
Day, Lehman’s litigator, said in closing arguments today in a
bankruptcy court trial in Manhattan. “The court was never told
about billions of dollars in unauthorized transactions” that
gave Barclays an “embedded gain” on a deal that was described
to the judge by former Lehman President  Bart McDade  as
“balanced,” with benefits to bankrupt Lehman.  Lehman, which accuses Barclays of making an $11 billion
“windfall” when it bought the brokerage in the 2008 financial
crisis, is trying to convince U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  James Peck 
that he has grounds for overturning his own order approving the
sale. Barclays will present its closing argument later today.  The battle pits bankrupt Lehman, which examiner  Anton Valukas  said hid billions of dollars in risks before it failed,
against Barclays, the sole bidder for the brokerage.  Gaffey said the law is on Lehman’s side. Grounds for Peck
to revise his own sale order include mistakes or
misrepresentation that may be innocent, he told the judge.  Peck is presiding over three lawsuits against Barclays,
including one by the Lehman brokerage’s trustee,  James Giddens ,
and one by creditors.  Creditors  Any money Peck awards Lehman would help its creditors, who
stand to get 15.8 cents on the dollar on average, and hurt
shareholders of Barclays, which reported net income of 2.4
billion pounds ($3.8 billion) in the first half.  Peck, a 65-year-old native New Yorker, was the Manhattan
court’s second most-junior bankruptcy judge in September 2008
when he was randomly assigned the $639 billion Lehman
bankruptcy, the biggest in U.S. history.  His Sept. 19, 2008, order approving the brokerage sale was
signed four days after the 158-year-old bank collapsed. The
order was encouraged by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, which were
seeking to calm global securities markets spooked by the
bankruptcy, according to court testimony.  Peck’s order allowed Lehman’s and Barclays’ lawyers to
change any documents he had approved, or add documents that
weren’t finished yet, though he said the changes shouldn’t
“have a material adverse effect on the debtors’ estates” and
should be approved by Lehman, its creditors and Barclays.  Since April  In the trial, which has been going on since April, Lehman
accuses Barclays of taking a $5 billion “secret” profit on a
portfolio of securities it acquired with the brokerage, and of
making another $6 billion by writing up business assets,
skimping on promised payments and “grabbing” more financial
assets belonging to Lehman. Some of the disputed assets were
assigned to Barclays in a so-called clarification letter that
was filed in court on Sept. 22, 2008, two days after Peck
approved the sale.  Barclays says it wants $3 billion of assets that were never
delivered. Lehman has no legal right to challenge the
transaction now because its advisers knew and documented all the
details when the deal was struck, and defended it in a higher
court when it was challenged, according to Barclays.  Briefs summarizing each side’s evidence are due in late
November. Absent a settlement, Peck may rule in January or
February, lawyers in the case said.  Portion of Assets  “On one legal theory or another Judge Peck could rule that
the clarification letter was never formally approved by the
court and therefore is not protected by his sale orders,” said
 Chip Bowles , a bankruptcy lawyer at Greenebaum Doll & McDonald
PLLC in Louisville, Kentucky. “Far more likely would be
partially denying part of Barclays’s turnover motion and only
giving Barclays a portion of the assets they are seeking.”  Peck will be reluctant to overturn his entire sale order
for “bankruptcy policy reasons,” said Bowles. So-called 363
sales, which helped the former General Motors Corp. and Chrysler
LLC to reorganize in bankruptcy and created jobs for 10,000
Lehman employees at Barclays, normally are considered final in
the courts, he said.  Under Peck, the two-year case has cost Lehman creditors $1
billion in fees to managers and advisers, the most expensive
bankruptcy ever.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Linda Sandler  in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 