-- Lilly Profit Increases 38%, Exceeding Analysts' Estimates, on Lower Costs
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 2010-10-21T20:07:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/eli-lilly-reports-third-quarter-adjusted-eps-of-1-21-beating-estimates.html
Eli Lilly & Co. , the drugmaker whose
top products start facing generic competition next year, said
third-quarter profit rose 38 percent on lower expenses.  Net income  increased to $1.3 billion, or $1.18 a share,
from $941.8 million, or 86 cents a share, in the year-earlier
period, Indianapolis-based Lilly said today in a statement.
Earnings excluding some items were $1.21, beating the average
 estimate  of 18 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg by 6 cents.  Lilly has struggled to get new drugs on the market before
patents expire on its older medicines, led by the antipsychotic
Zyprexa. Two separate setbacks this week for diabetes drugs
under development may renew calls for Lilly to look for large
acquisitions to bolster revenue, a suggestion that has been
spurned by Chief Executive Officer  John Lechleiter .  “Overall, a reasonable quarter for the company, yet for
many investors, it is the longer-term financial outlook that
matters more and here, Lilly still looks challenged,” said  Tim Anderson , an analyst at Sanford Bernstein & Co. in New York, in
a note to clients today.  Lilly fell 51 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $35.50 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Revenue Misses Estimates  Revenue in the quarter increased 1.7 percent to $5.65
billion, $120 million short of analyst estimates. Top-selling
Zyprexa fell 0.8 percent to $1.21 billion, while the
antidepressant Cymbalta gained 4.4 percent to $825.3 million and
the cancer treatment Alimta rose 21 percent to $560.3 million.
Higher demand outside the U.S. drove revenue growth, Lilly said.  U.S. regulators surprised the company Oct. 19 by rejecting
Bydureon, an experimental once-weekly version of the diabetes
drug Byetta that Lilly co-promotes with San Diego-based  Amylin
Pharmaceuticals Inc.  The delay in approval may cost Lilly as
much as $425 million in revenue, according to  Seamus Fernandez ,
an analyst at Leerink Swann & Co. in Boston.  Lilly raised its  forecast  for full-year adjusted earnings
today to a range of $4.65 to $4.75. The company had said Aug. 17
that it expected profit excluding certain items to be $4.50 a
share to $4.65 a share this year. The new estimate doesn’t
include any potential costs related to Bydureon or teplizumab,
an experimental diabetes treatment that Lilly said yesterday had
failed to show benefit in a late-stage trial.  Acquisitions Needed  “At this point, it certainly makes sense for them to
pursue smaller product-oriented acquisitions,” Fernandez said
yesterday in a telephone interview. “They’ll get a lot of
questions on their strategy for continuing to pursue the
pipeline but not moving particularly aggressively” on
acquisitions and partnership deals.  Lilly’s third-quarter earnings included $59.5 million in
expenses related to severance pay as the company moves to trim
jobs and reduce future spending. Lilly reported $549.8 million
in expenses in the year-ago quarter, primarily related to the
sale of its Tippecanoe, Indiana, manufacturing facility and
settlements with states over its Zyprexa marketing.  Zyprexa brought in $4.92 billion last year, accounting for
23 percent of Lilly’s  sales . Patents expire in 2013 on the
antidepressant Cymbalta and insulin product Humalog, putting
almost half of the company’s revenue in jeopardy if lower-cost
generic copies enter the market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catherine Larkin  in Washington at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 