-- Hana Financial Tumbles in Seoul After Temasek Sells Stake at Lower Price
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a   a n d   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2010-10-21T08:14:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/temasek-said-to-sell-entire-9-6-stake-in-hana-financial-for-605-million.html
Hana Financial Group Inc. dropped
the most in a year after  Temasek Holdings Pte  sold its stake in
South Korea’s fourth-biggest financial company at a lower price
than offered previously.  Hana tumbled 7.3 percent, the  biggest drop  since Oct. 5,
2009, to 32,950 won at the 3 p.m. close in Seoul trading,
compared with the benchmark  Kospi  index’s 0.2 percent gain.
Temasek, Singapore’s state-owned investment firm, sold its 9.6
percent stake for 33,400 won ($29.70) a share, lower than its
initial offer band of 34,300 won to 35,550 won, two people with
knowledge of the deal said. That put the sale at 681 billion won.  Temasek, which recently bought a stake in a Brazilian oil
firm, is seeking to diversify its assets to energy investments
as demand in emerging markets increases. Its  Hana  sale comes a
week after the Seoul-based firm reported a 10 percent gain in
third-quarter profit on higher lending margins.  “The ample volume in the market from Temasek’s block sale
is hitting the stock hard today,” said  Joanne Lee , a banking
industry analyst at Shinhan Investment Corp. in Seoul.
“Although the stock will probably undergo a correction in the
short term, Hana’s strong earnings potential and sound
fundamentals will help it recover soon.”  ‘Active Investor’  Temasek sought to sell its 20.4 million shares of Hana,
according to the terms of the offer obtained by Bloomberg News
yesterday. Its investment in the Korean firm, held since 2004,
gave a return of 71 percent in the year ended March 31,
according to the Singapore company’s annual report in July.  “As an active investor, Temasek regularly reviews its
portfolio and remains open to maintaining, increasing or
reducing its holdings, depending on opportunities and market
conditions,” company spokesman  Jeffrey Fang  said in an e-mailed
statement, without giving a price.  Temasek’s recent investments in South Korea include light-
emitting diode device manufacturers Seoul Semiconductor Co. and
Seoul Optodevice Co., as well as biopharmaceutical firm
Celltrion Inc., Fang said.  “We understand that Temasek has sold its stake as part of
efforts to diversify its portfolio,” Lee Jung Dae, spokesman
for Hana, said by phone in Seoul. Credit Suisse Group AG managed
the Hana transaction.  Hana on Oct. 15 posted third-quarter profit of 265.1
billion won, more than analysts expected. The company’s banking
unit in September completed the  purchase  of an 18 percent stake
in China’s Bank of Jilin, almost three years after the plan was
announced in 2007.  Profit Gain  Temasek, which has S$186 billion ($143 billion) in assets,
said this week that it paid $400 million for a 14.3 percent
stake in the oil services unit of Brazil’s Odebrecht SA.  Temasek’s investments in financial firms rose to 37 percent
of its portfolio from 33 percent in the year to March 31, after
it increased its stake in China Construction Bank Corp. and the
value of such investments swelled as markets recovered,
according to its annual report in July.  During the same period, the value of its investments in
resources firms rose to S$11.2 billion, or 6 percent of its
total portfolio, from S$6.5 billion, or 5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story
 Seonjin Cha  in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net ;
 Joyce Koh  in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  