-- Emerging-Market Equities Advance Most in Five Days; Currencies Strengthen
-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2010-10-21T13:59:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/emerging-market-stocks-advance-most-in-a-week-as-earnings-outlook-improves.html
Developing-nation stocks  rose, with
the benchmark index heading for its biggest advance in five
days, after reports on China’s economic growth and European
manufacturing topped economists’ estimates.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  gained 0.7 percent to
1,109.12 at 9:47 a.m. in New York. The extra  yield  investors
demand to own developing-nation debt over U.S. Treasuries
dropped 6 basis points to 2.58 percentage points, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ Index. Currencies strengthened, led
by a 0.6 percent gain in Hungary’s forint against the euro.  The MSCI China Index  climbed 0.9 percent and yuan forwards
rose for the first time in three days after the government said
economic growth was 9.6 percent last quarter, beating the 9.5
percent median estimate in a Bloomberg survey. The Markit
Economics manufacturing gauge for Europe rose to 54.1 from 53.7,
compared with the median forecast for a drop to 53.2. Gauges of
consumer stocks in the emerging-markets index climbed more than
1 percent after better-than-forecast profits from  EBay Inc. ,
Nokia Oyj and Fiat SpA.  Stocks are benefitting from “a positive signal in terms of
earnings momentum,” said  Jim McCafferty , a Hong Kong-based Asia
research product manager for Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  The MSCI emerging-market index has advanced 12 percent this
year as analysts increased their 12-month earnings estimates by
28 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. China’s
expansion will help developing nations grow 6.4 percent as a
group next year, compared with 2.2 percent in advanced
countries, according to International Monetary Fund forecasts.  Yuan Strength  China’s growth may add fuel to arguments that the economy
can withstand a stronger yuan as officials from the Group of 20
prepare meet to discuss to currencies in South Korea tomorrow.
China raised interest rates on Oct. 19 for the first time since
the global credit crisis, affirming policy makers’ confidence in
the economic recovery and concern at price pressures.  Twelve-month non-deliverable forward contracts on the yuan
rose 0.27 percent to 6.4231 per dollar, reflecting bets the
currency will strengthen 3.5 percent in a year.  India’s  Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index  advanced 2
percent, the most among benchmark equity indexes in major
emerging markets, as Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. rallied
before its earnings report today. India’s largest software
exporter posted results that beat estimates after the close of
trading today.  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index  climbed 1.4
percent to a record high, while benchmark indexes in Indonesia
and Malaysia both added 0.3 percent.  East Europe Rally  Russia’s Micex Index increased 2 percent to the highest
intraday level since April 16 and the extra yield investors
demand on the government’s dollar bonds over U.S. Treasuries
dropped 8 basis points to 2.05 percentage points, according to
JPMorgan. Russia said it plans to raise 1.8 trillion rubles ($59
billion) in asset sales in the next five years to help balance
the budget.  Poland’s  WIG20 Index  climbed 0.7 percent and the Czech PX
Index advanced 0.3 percent. Markit said today in a statement
that Europe had “an increase in the rate of growth of
manufacturing new orders, driven largely by better export
sales.”  Brazil’s Bovespa Index advanced 0.2 percent after the
country’s unemployment rate fell to a record-low 6.2 percent in
September, below the 6.5 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg
survey of economists.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chan Tien Hin  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  