-- Ten-Year Bond Yields Hold Near Two-Year High as Coal India IPO Drains Cash
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n   a n d   A n i l   V a r m a
-- 2010-10-21T12:38:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/ten-year-bonds-drop-for-a-second-day-as-coal-india-share-sale-drains-cash.html
India’s  10-year bond  yields held
near a two-year high, heading for a fourth weekly increase, on
speculation state-owned  Coal India Ltd. ’s initial share sale is
reducing the amount of  cash  available to purchase debt.  The world’s biggest coal producer received bids for more
than 15 times the $3.4 billion of shares offered, data on the
National Stock Exchange’s website showed. The four-day sale
ended today. Banks  borrowed  an average of 507 billion rupees
($11.4 billion) from the central bank’s repurchase auction
window each day this month, compared with 251 billion rupees in
September, reflecting the cash shortage.  Government bond yields rose this week “due to tight
liquidity,” said  Mukesh Kumar , a fixed-income trader at State
Bank of Bikaner & Jaipur in Mumbai. “The Coal India IPO is
spurring demand for more cash.”  The yield on the 7.8 percent note due May 2020 was at 8.13
percent at the 5 p.m. close in Mumbai, compared with a two-year
high of 8.14 percent yesterday, according to the central bank’s
trading system. The rate added 6 basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, this week. The price was at 97.83 per 100
rupee face amount.  An increase in overnight  borrowing rates  in the local money
market signaled cash in the banking system has declined. The
rate at which Indian banks lend overnight to each other has
averaged 6.2 percent this month, up from 5.7 percent in
September, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Ten-year yields in India have climbed 54 basis points this
year, extending 2009’s record 2.3 percentage point  surge , data
on the Bloomberg show. The South Asian nation’s bonds are the
second-worst performers after China among 10 local-currency debt
markets outside Japan, according to indexes compiled by HSBC
Holdings Plc.  The cost of one-year interest-rate swaps, a fixed payment
made to receive floating rates, climbed four basis points this
week to 6.72 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net ;
 Anil Varma  in Mumbai at 
 avarma3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  