-- Enough Water on the Moon to Consider Space Station, U.S. Scientists Say
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2010-10-21T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/enough-water-on-the-moon-to-consider-space-station-u-s-scientists-say.html
The amount of water discovered on
the moon last year when scientists purposely slammed a rocket
into the lunar south pole may be enough to help set up a space
fueling station, according to latest data from the mission.  The National Aeronautics and Space Administration crashed
the Centaur rocket into a crater called  Cabeus , kicking up about
two tons of material estimated to contain 5.6 percent water,
according to reports in the journal Science. That’s more water
by mass than in the Sahara desert, which has 2 to 3 percent.  There may be sufficient water to separate into its
component parts, hydrogen and oxygen, and use the hydrogen for
rocket fuel, said  Anthony Colaprete,  a planetary scientist for
NASA at the Ames Research Laboratory in California and an author
of three of the papers. That could mean the moon would be useful
as a launching point for missions to other destinations, such as
a moon of Saturn or Jupiter.  “We didn’t know the moon after all,” said  Peter Schultz ,
a planetary geologist at Brown University in Providence, Rhode
Island and author of two of the papers, in a telephone
interview. “It’s like there was a different face and it was
hidden in a treasure trove.”  Also found were carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, ammonia,
silver and mercury.  Moon Ideal Stop-Over  The  moon  is an ideal stop-over because its gravity is one-
sixth of earth’s, and about 2 million pounds of fuel are
required to get into low earth orbit, Colaprete said.  “Once you get off earth, you’ve used a certain amount of
fuel, and if you want to go somewhere else, you have to bring
that fuel, but that makes it even harder to get off earth,”
Colaprete said. “If you can find resources on the moon, or
anywhere else, we can use them to generate fuel in space, and
use that infrastructure to bring humans to other places.”  Only half a percent of ice by mass would be enough to make
it worthwhile to extract  water  and separate it into its
principal components, Colaprete said. And water is better than
other forms of hydrogen because it takes less energy to separate
from oxygen than to take out hydrogen bound in rock, he said.  Other elements found in the crater were unexpected, Schultz
said. The most likely explanation is that they were generated or
left by impacts from meteorites or comets, although the moon
once had active volcanoes, which may have generated some of the
compounds.  Lunar Mission  The papers stem from the  Lunar Crater Observation and
Sensing Satellite . The LCROSS mission slammed the spent rocket
into a crater where hydrogen had been detected. The impact
tossed up about six feet of lunar material more than half a mile
above the crater floor, high enough to be seen in the sunlight.  For about four minutes, the plume was measured using  nearby
instruments . The amount measured was almost two tons, according
to the reports.  Cabeus is near the south pole of the moon, and is
permanently in shadow. Unlike other parts of the moon, which
have 14 earth days of sunlight followed by 14 of darkness, the
poles have sunlight about 80 or 90 percent of the time,
Colaprete said. That makes for better conditions for setting up
explorations, as well as a stop-over point.  “One possible architecture is a base in the illuminated
regions and then you can drive to the dark regions, which are
not too far away,” Colaprete said. “It’s a really extreme
environment, where you can quickly go from 70 to 80 percent
sunlight to permanent shadow.”  The next questions scientists want to address are where
else ice might be on the moon, as well as what the environment
around the impact site is like, Schultz said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Lopatto  in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 