-- Germany to Wrap EU Crisis Rule With Croatia's Entry
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2010-10-21T12:35:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/merkel-may-use-eu-expansion-plan-to-push-through-changes-in-bailout-rules.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
government may use the European Union’s next expansion as an
opportunity to enact rules forcing bondholders to share the cost
of state bailouts, a leader of Merkel’s coalition said.  Merkel may seek to pass a crisis-resolution mechanism,
which would help over-indebted euro-area countries reschedule
debts without declaring default, as part of technical amendments
to the EU treaty to admit Croatia, said  Michael Meister , deputy
parliamentary head of Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union.  “The entry of new member states requires treaty changes,”
Meister said in an interview today in Berlin. He said it “makes
sense” to tie the crisis mechanism to the votes by the EU’s 27
national governments on Croatia’s entry in 2012 or 2013.  Such a package deal may overcome resistance in EU capitals
to another full-scale overhaul of the bloc’s treaties. The
latest revamp took effect in 2009 after eight years of haggling,
referendum defeats in three countries and last-minute veto
threats by the Czech Republic.  A pledge by EU finance ministers this week to work on a
debt-rescheduling system is “encouraging because there is the
clear agreement to also talk about points that require a treaty
change,” Meister said. “There had been a lot of concern that
these questions would be filed away with the argument that a
treaty change is required.”  Czech, Irish Provisions  Three treaty provisions -- exempting the Czech Republic
from the EU’s bill of rights, confirming sovereignty guarantees
to Ireland and adjusting the size of the  European Parliament  --
are already set to be ratified in the bloc’s next expansion.  Whether that is the right method to push through the more
politically sensitive crisis mechanism is “questionable,” said
 Marco Incerti , an analyst at the  Centre for European Policy
Studies  in Brussels. “It will be a way of changing the treaty
which is not necessarily good in terms of involvement of the
citizens and democracy, especially in the current climate of
people taking to the streets because they are fed up with
austerity.”  Also unclear is the timing. Croatia’s original target for
joining was 2009. The bid was halted for 10 months last year by
a border dispute with Slovenia, an EU member. Croatia now aims
to be in shape for EU governments to start the entry-
ratification process by the second half of next year.  Germany yesterday won the backing of the  European
Commission  for the introduction of a permanent mechanism that
would replace the 750 billion-euro ($1 trillion) financial
backstop for debt-hit governments that expires in 2013 and is
funded by taxpayers alone.  “We will also do all we can to be better prepared for
critical developments than we were last time,” commission
President  Jose Barroso  said yesterday. A permanent mechanism
“can prevent such developments from arising in the future.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rainer Buergin  in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
 Brian Parkin  in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  