-- Terra Firma Employees Back Hands's Testimony on Plan for Competing EMI Bid
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2010-10-21T19:13:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/terra-firma-employees-back-hands-s-testimony-on-calls-update1-.html
Two Terra Firma Capital Partners
Ltd. employees supported the testimony of their boss, firm
founder  Guy Hands , that  Citigroup Inc.  banker  David Wormsley 
misled him about the 2007 auction for  EMI Group Ltd.   Hands, whose firm is suing Citigroup for fraud in an
$8.3 billion suit on trial in Manhattan federal court, claims
Wormsley falsely told him in three phone calls the weekend
before the auction that Cerberus Capital Management LP planned
to submit a competing bid of 2.62 pounds per share for EMI.  “Guy called me up over the weekend and he said, ‘I’ve just
had a conversation with David Wormsley and he tells me that
Cerberus is in. They will be bidding tomorrow, and they will be
bidding a price of 262,’” the witness, Riaz Punja, told jurors
today.  Terra Firma claims that if it had known Cerberus had
dropped out of the bidding before the May 21, 2007,
 auction, it wouldn’t have submitted its own bid of 2.65 pounds
for EMI, the 113-year-old music publishing and recording company
based in London. Instead, the firm claims, it would have taken
more time to study the transaction and negotiated a lower price.  Punja’s testimony comes after Hands said yesterday on
cross-examination that he has no documents that prove Wormsley
lied to him on the weekend leading up to the Monday-morning
auction.  Punja, who told jurors he headed a team that did due
diligence on EMI in the deal, said Terra Firma called the deal
“Project Dice” after the Rolling Stones song “Tumbling
Dice.” The Rolling Stones, Queen, Radiohead and  Paul McCartney 
are among artists that left EMI since the 2007 sale.  Second Witness  Earlier today, Terra Firma employee Kirsten Randell
testified that she took minutes for a meeting of the firm’s
investment advisory committee the day before the auction. One of
her handwritten notes from the meeting reads “other bidders -
one at 262.”  Hands is scheduled to resume his testimony tomorrow.  The case is Terra Firma v. Citigroup, 09-cv-10459, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in New York
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 