-- Ethiopia Rejects Human Rights Watch Allegation It Used Aid for Repression
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2010-10-21T10:49:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/ethiopia-rejects-human-rights-watch-allegation-it-used-aid-for-repression.html
Ethiopia ’s government rejected
allegations by  Human Rights Watch  that the state used
international aid for political repression.  On Oct. 18, the New York-based advocacy group said the
government used “donor-supported programs” to control political
opponents by denying them access to land, credit, fertilizers,
food aid and other resources.  Human Rights Watch’s “extraordinary attack” is part of an
“ongoing vendetta” by the rights group against Ethiopia and
doesn’t “reflect reality,” Ethiopia’s Foreign Ministry said in a
e-mailed statement from Addis Ababa, the capital, yesterday.  The government remains “entirely committed to transparency
in its dealing with the international community,” it said.  In elections in May, an alliance led by Prime Minister
 Meles Zenawi  won 545 out of 547 seats in parliament. A European
Union election observer mission said in a May 25 report that the
vote did “not meet certain international commitments.”  Ethiopia is the second-largest aid recipient in the world,
receiving around $3 billion annually, according to Human Rights
Watch. Last month, the U.S. announced new donations that took
total assistance to its Horn of Africa ally to $983 million for
the year.  The U.S. Agency for International Development said it was
“a little bit surprised” by the Human Rights Watch allegations
as donor investigations hadn’t found any evidence of abuse,
Thomas Staal, director of the agency’s Ethiopian unit, said in a
phone interview yesterday.  The report would be taken seriously and there was a “zero-
tolerance policy of any discriminatory practises,” Staal said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Davison  in Addis Ababa via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 