-- Dollar Advances Versus Euro as Investors Take Refuge Before G-20 Meeting
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2010-10-21T21:11:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/euro-rises-verus-yen-dollar-as-region-s-manufacturing-growth-accelerates.html
The dollar advanced against the euro
as stocks pared their gains, encouraging investors to take
refuge before the Group of 20 meeting in South Korea.  Global finance ministers are planning to say members will
refrain from “competitive undervaluation” of currencies to
soothe trade tensions, said an official from a G-20 country,
citing a draft statement and speaking on condition of anonymity.
Brazil’s real fell against the dollar as the government closed a
loophole yesterday on a new tax on foreigners’ investments.  “Currency markets are particularly sensitive today to the
risk headlines,” said  Nick Bennenbroek , head of currency
strategy at Wells Fargo & Co. in New York. “It reflects some
caution of market participants not willing to go out on a limb
ahead of this G-20.”  The euro fell 0.3 percent to $1.3919 at 5 p.m. in New York,
from $1.3964 yesterday, after gaining 0.6 percent. The euro
traded at 113.20 yen, compared with 113.23. The dollar
appreciated 0.3 percent to 81.33 yen, from 81.09.  Finance ministers and central bankers will say after G-20
talks conclude in Gyeongju, South Korea, on Oct. 23 that they
want a “more market-determined exchange rate system that
minimizes adverse effects of excess volatility and disorderly
movements in exchange rates,” the official said.  The Wall Street Journal cited Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  as saying major currencies are “in alignment” and
he’ll work to persuade leaders that the U.S. isn’t trying to
weaken the dollar.  Mantega and Geithner  Brazil’s Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  told reporters in
Brasilia that Geithner said to him yesterday by telephone that
the U.S. won’t weaken the dollar. Mantega said he agreed with
Geithner to seek at the G-20 meeting a means of preventing the
dollar from depreciating.  Mantega, in what he has described as a global “currency
war” to protect exporters, raised taxes on foreign inflows on
Oct. 18 for the second time this month.  Brazil’s real slid 1.1 percent to 1.6968 versus the dollar
as the government announced yesterday rules banning financial
institutions from renting, lending or swapping assets to
foreigners seeking to invest in the futures market.  “We have warned of increased event risk in Brazil, and
that seems to be taking hold now after policy makers took
measures today to close off some loopholes,”  Win Thin , a senior
currency strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in New
York, wrote in a note to clients.  Real’s Losses  The real is the second-biggest loser against the dollar
this week among the most-traded currencies, declining 1.9
percent. Foreign capital inflows helped push the real to a two-
year high of 1.6442 on Oct. 14.  The  Dollar Index , used by IntercontinentalExchange Inc. to
track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners including the euro and yen, gained 0.4 percent
to 77.466 after falling 0.4 percent.  The gauge of the greenback has dropped 3.7 percent since
Sept. 21, when the Federal Reserve said in a statement following
its policy meeting that it’s prepared “to provide additional
accommodation if needed” to support the recovery. The Fed is
next due to decide on monetary policy Nov. 2-3.  “The whole point of a second round of quantitative easing
is that you’ll make the economy better,” said  Andrew Wilkinson ,
senior market analyst at Interactive Brokers Group LLC in
Greenwich, Connecticut. “That’s being reflected in equity
prices, but it’s not being reflected in the dollar. At some
point, the dollar will snap back.”  Drop in Stocks  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  gained 0.2 percent after
earlier advancing 1 percent to a five-month high on an intraday
basis. Crude oil for December delivery extended its drop,
falling 1.3 percent to $80.68 a barrel.  The pound slid as much as 1.1 percent to 89.08 pence per
euro, the weakest level since March 31, as the Office for
National Statistics said that the U.K.’s retail sales fell 0.2
percent in September. The median forecast of 25 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey was for a 0.3 percent gain.  Minutes of the Bank of England’s last meeting issued
yesterday showed policy makers “felt the likelihood that
further monetary stimulus would become necessary in order to
meet the inflation target in the medium term had increased.”  Asian currencies rallied after China reported third-quarter
economic growth that beat analysts’ estimates, easing concern
that an unexpected interest-rate increase this week will slow
the world’s second-largest economy.  Taiwan’s currency gained for the first time this week,
appreciating 0.3 percent to NT$30.782. Singapore’s dollar
advanced 0.1 percent to S$1.3010.  China’s Economy  China’s gross domestic product increased 9.6 percent in the
third quarter from a year earlier, more than the 9.5 percent
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  Deutsche Bank AG raised its estimate for the euro to $1.45
for both the end of the year and the end of the first quarter
next year, up from $1.30 and $1.35, respectively,  Bilal Hafeez ,
global head of foreign-exchange strategy in London, said in a
research note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  