-- Euro Gains After Manufacturing Gauge Rises; Sterling Slumps
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2010-10-21T12:36:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/euro-gains-after-manufacturing-gauge-rises-pound-drops-on-boe-easing-bets.html
The euro rose for a second day
against the dollar after a gauge of regional manufacturing
unexpectedly increased, indicating the currency’s appreciation
may fail to check Europe’s economic growth.  The euro climbed against 13 of its 16 major peers. The U.K.
pound slid to a six-month low versus the common currency on bets
the Bank of England will boost the economy by printing cash as
Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s government reduces the deficit.
Deutsche Bank AG cut its forecasts for the dollar against the
euro, saying the greenback’s outlook is “clearly negative.”  “Germany is still competitive at current euro-dollar
rates,” said  Peter Frank , a currency strategist at Societe
Generale SA in London. “It cements in the market psyche the
fact that the euro is not overvalued at $1.40.”  The euro strengthened 0.4 percent to $1.4018 at 8:34 a.m.
in New York, from $1.3964 yesterday. It advanced 0.4 percent to
113.70 yen, from 113.23. The pound slid as much as 1.1 percent
to 89.08 pence per euro, the weakest level since March 31.  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners including the euro, yen, pound and Canadian
dollar, fell 0.3 percent to 76.939.  Asian currencies rose after China’s third-quarter economic
growth beat analysts’ estimates, helping to ease concern that an
unexpected interest-rate increase will slow the world’s second-
largest economy.  G-20 Meeting  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  will meet his
counterparts from the Group of 20 nations in Gyeongju, South
Korea, over the next few days with foreign-exchange policies
likely to be on the agenda. The policy makers are planning to
say members will refrain from “competitive undervaluation” of
their currencies, an official from a G-20 nation said today,
citing a draft statement and speaking on condition of anonymity.  The Wall Street Journal cited Geithner as saying major
currencies are “in alignment” and he’ll work to persuade
leaders that the U.S. isn’t trying to weaken the dollar.  Europe’s Markit Economics manufacturing gauge rose to 54.1
in October from 53.7 the previous month, exceeding analysts’
estimate for a drop to 53.2. There was “an increase in the rate
of growth of manufacturing new orders, driven largely by better
export sales,” Markit said today in a statement on its  website .
The organization’s composite index of services and manufacturing
industries fell to 53.4 from 54.1 in September.  German Notes  German two-year government notes fell for a seventh
straight day, widening the securities’ yield premium to U.K. and
U.S. debt, as traders added to bets the European Central Bank
will be first to withdraw extraordinary stimulus measures.  The U.K. two-year note yield fell to a record 0.557
percent, widening the  difference in yield  with German securities
three basis points to 38 basis points, the most since November.
The U.S.-German difference increased to 63 basis points.  “You’re getting a pretty big swing in interest-rate
differentials that is giving a push lower for sterling,” said
 Ray Farris , the London-based head of foreign-exchange strategy
at Credit Suisse Group AG.  Speculation that the Bank of England will add to asset
purchases pushed the pound lower against all of its major peers.
Minutes of the last policy-maker meeting showed yesterday that
the central bank may be moving toward bond purchases to shore up
the recovery. Government data today showed U.K. retail sales
unexpectedly dropped in September for a second month.  Osborne Plan  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  yesterday
detailed his plan to almost eliminate the nation’s record 156
billion-pound budget deficit.  “The spending review has added to the feeling that
monetary policy needs to do more work,” said  Daragh Maher ,
deputy head of global foreign-exchange strategy at Credit
Agricole SA in London. “It seems the foreign-exchange market is
more inclined to think quantitative easing is a done deal. The
data in the euro zone has tended to surprise to the upside. It
means the euro is going to be the winner.”  Investors should sell the pound as the U.K.’s budget cuts
will likely prompt the Bank of England to step up bond
purchases, according to UBS AG.  “The risk of renewed quantitative easing makes sterling a
sell,”  Mansoor Mohi-uddin , head of global currency strategy at
UBS in Singapore, wrote to clients today. “As Britain continues
to run a large trade imbalance, monetary policy may have to be
loosened again sharply to support the economy.”  Sterling fell 0.5 percent to $1.5767.  Deutsche Bank raised its estimate for the euro to $1.45 for
both the end of the year and the end of the first quarter next
year, up from $1.30 and $1.35 respectively,  Bilal Hafeez , global
head of foreign-exchange strategy in London, said today in a
research note. His prediction for the end of next year is $1.30,
according to the note.  Deutsche Bank forecasts the yen will strengthen to 75
against the dollar over the same period, according to the
report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  