-- Europe Commodity Day Ahead: Rare-Earth Users Say Prices Soaring on Quotas
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 1 ]   J a r r e t t   B a n k s   [ ]
-- 2010-10-21T06:47:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/europe-commodity-day-ahead-rare-earth-users-say-prices-soaring-on-quotas.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  ECONOMIC EVENTS, AGRIGULTURE EVENTS:
*T                                      Survey    Prior
Australia Import price Index 3Q QoQ     0.0%       1.9%
Australia Export price Index 3Q QoQ     4.0%      16.1%
(8:30 a.m. Sydney Oct 22)  South African Sugar Crop Production Forecast
(6 a.m. Oct 22)  U.S. Census Soybean Oil Reserves Sep.        -    3.303 M pounds
(8 p.m. Oct 22)  
EXCLUSIVE:  Rare-Earth Prices Soar as China Quotas Hit Manufacturers Abroad  Rare-earth prices have jumped as Chinese export quotas
crimped worldwide supplies for the elements used in the
manufacture of disk drives, wind turbines and smart bombs.  Rio’s Mirchi Says Global Aluminum Output Increase Needed by 2020  Aluminum producers will have to expand global output by
about two-thirds to keep pace with an expected consumption
increase of 5.3 percent a year over the next decade, an
executive at Rio Tinto Group’s Alcan unit said.  ADB Plans 2011 Water Bond on Asian Supply ‘Crisis’  The Asian Development Bank may issue a bond next year
solely for water projects in a bid to lend as much as $25
billion over the next decade amid persistent supply problems in
the region.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Declines as China’s Economy Slows, Dollar Rebounds  Copper dropped as China’s economy grew at the slowest pace
in a year in the third quarter and as the dollar rebounded.
Futures pared gains in Shanghai.  MINING:  Steel Production in China Declines on Power Curbs  Crude steel production in China, the world’s biggest maker,
dropped 5.9 percent in September compared with a year ago as the
government imposed power restrictions to meet energy-efficiency
targets.  Fortescue Metals Says to Consider Solomon Feasibility in Nov.  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. will consider a feasibility
study on the Solomon mine in November and will provide more
information once it’s approved, according to a regulatory filing.  Fortescue Says Cost of Developing Solomon Mine Is $5.4 Billion  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd., Australia’s third-biggest
producer of iron ore, said the cost of developing its Solomon
mine in Western Australia state will be $5.4 billion, about 67
percent more than initially expected.  China September Copper Output Gains on High Prices  Copper output in China, the largest producer, increased in
September for the first time in three months as smelters ramped
up production in response to high prices and ample raw material
supply.  China Steel Product Output 65.43 Million Tons in September  China’s steel product output in September was 65.43 million
metric tons, according to the statistics bureau.  Gujarat Mineral to Set Up Alumina Refinery, Aluminum Smelter  Gujarat Mineral Development Corp., an Indian mining company,
is seeking partners to set up an alumina refinery and an
aluminum smelter in the Kutch district of the western state of
Gujarat, according to a bid document posted on its website.  Japan Copper Cable Shipments Increase for Ninth Month  Japan’s copper wire and cable shipments climbed 5.2
percent in September from a year earlier, the most since June,
gaining for the ninth straight month, an industry group said.  Sims Says Profit Declines 75% as Margins Constrained  Sims Metal Management Ltd., the world’s biggest recycler of
scrap metal, said its profit in the first quarter declined 75
percent from a year earlier as scrap flows and margins remain
constrained.  Newcrest Says First-Quarter Gold Output Gains 79%  Newcrest Mining Ltd., Australia’s largest gold mining
company, said first-quarter gold production rose 79 percent,
boosted by the acquisition of Lihir Gold Ltd.  Dominion Rises Most in Four Years After Kingsgate Bid  Dominion Mining Ltd., an Australian gold producer, rose the
most in four years in Sydney trading after agreeing yesterday to
a A$376 million ($371 million) takeover bid from Kingsgate
Consolidated Ltd.  BHP, Rio to Hold Talks on Mining Tax, Australian Says  BHP Billiton Ltd., Rio Tinto Group and Xstrata Plc have
called a meeting today as they consider abandoning a mining tax
agreement brokered with Prime Minister Julia Gillard, the
Australian newspaper reported.  Intraco Allocates $100 Million to Acquire Mines, Bisnis Reports  PT Intraco Penta has allocated at least $100 million to
acquire coal and nickel mines next year, Bisnis Indonesia
reported, citing Petrus Halim, president director at the
Indonesian heavy equipment trading company.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold Declines as Geithner’s Comments Spur Advance in the Dollar  Gold declined after U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F.
Geithner said that the major currencies are “roughly in
alignment,” boosting the dollar and curbing demand for the
precious metal as a haven.  ANZ Forecasts Gold to Reach $1,420 in December Quarter on Dollar  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. forecast gold
prices will reach $1,420 an ounce in the December quarter,
raising its estimate by 7 percent. The metal may peak at $1,550
an ounce in the September quarter, up 13 percent from a previous
estimate, the bank said in an e-mailed report today.  AGRICULTURE:  Soybeans Advance to 16-Month High on Rising Demand From China  Soybeans climbed to the highest price in more than 16
months on speculation China, the world’s largest importer, may
boost overseas purchases to increase domestic supplies and cool
inflation.  Palm Oil Tops 3,000 Ringgit For First Time Since July 2008  Palm oil gained to more than 3,000 ringgit ($963) a metric
ton for the first time since July 31, 2008, on speculation that
supplies may lag behind surging demand from China and India.  Palm Oil May Rally to 3,330 Ringgit on Demand, Phillip Says  Palm oil, which traded at more than 3,000 ringgit ($963) a
metric ton today for the first time since 2008, may extend its
rally on increased Chinese demand and bullish technical signals,
according to Phillip Futures Pte.  Cold Wave to Affect Chinese Energy, Agriculture, Xinhua Reports  A cold wave may hit most parts of China from today,
bringing down temperatures by as much as 16 degrees centigrade
and producing “negative impacts” on the nation’s energy supply,
transportation systems and agricultural production, the official
Xinhua News Agency reported.  Rice Supplies From U.S., Major Exporters to Tighten, FAO Says  Rice stockpiles held by the world’s five biggest exporters
will likely decline next year, tightening global supply and
supporting prices, the United Nations said.  Bairaha Farms Rises to Record as Second-Quarter Profit Surges  Bairaha Farms Plc, a Sri Lankan poultry farming company,
climbed to a record in Colombo trading after second-quarter
profit grew nearly fivefold.  Corn Premiums Gain as U.S. Farmers Curb Sales; Soybean Bids Drop  Cash premiums for corn shipped to export terminals near New
Orleans this month rose yesterday after futures approached a
two-year peak, encouraging farmers to hold supplies. Soybean
premiums declined for a fourth session.  China Corn Imports Likely to Halt on Surging Costs, Portal Says  Surging prices of U.S. corn have likely halted further
imports from China, Grain.gov.cn, a portal run by state-owned
China National Grain & Oils Information Center, said in an e-
mailed report.  China October Soybean Imports May Be 4.65 Mln Tons, Center Says  China’s inbound shipments of soybeans may total 4.65
million metric tons in October, the China National Grain & Oils
Information Center said in emailed report. The volume will be
nearly the same as September’s and higher than the 4.16 million
tons estimated by the Ministry of Commerce, it said.  China’s Vegetable Oil Imports May Rise This Year, Center Says  China’s imports of vegetable oil, which fell in the
marketing year through September, may rise this year, the China
National Grain & Oils Information Center said in an e-mailed
monthly forecast report.  SOFT COMMODITIES:  Rubber Drops, Erasing Gains, as China Economic Expansion Slows  Rubber fell as data showed China’s economy expanded in the
third quarter at the slowest pace in a year, raising concern
demand may weaken from the largest user.  LIVESTOCK:  Fattest Hogs Since 2006 Erase Herd-Cut Price Gain: Chart of Day  Hog weights have ballooned to almost the heaviest level on
record, boosting supplies and erasing price gains after U.S.
farmers cut herds, said Altin Kalo, a commodity analyst at
Steiner Consulting Group.  Cattle Herd in Australian Feedlots Declines in September Quarter  Cattle numbers in feedlots in Australia declined to 765,818
in the September quarter from 790,772 in the June quarter,
according to a survey by the Australian Lot Feeders Association
and Meat & Livestock Australia. The results were released in an
e-mailed statement today.  DAIRY:  Fonterra Cooperative Sells Brownes Dairy Unit to DairyWest  Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. agreed to sell its Brownes
dairy business in Western Australia to DairyWest for an
undisclosed sum.  N.Z. Fraud Office Investigating Natural Dairy Land Transactions  New Zealand’s Serious Fraud Office has begun an
investigation into land transactions involving Natural Dairy (NZ)
Holdings Ltd. and other parties, it said in an e-mailed
statement.  WEATHER:  Typhoon Megi Weakens on Way to South Coast of China  Typhoon Megi, which left 19 people dead in the Philippines,
weakened as it moved closer to the coast of southern China,
where authorities have issued the highest alert and stepped up
preparations for landfall.  NSW Drought-Free for First Time Since 2001 After Rain, Whan Says  Australia’s New South Wales was free of drought for the
first time since June 2001 with parts of the state now facing
problems because of excessive rainfall, state Primary Industries
Minister Steve Whan said today in a statement.  ECONOMIES:  G-20 Countries Urged to Contribute to Food-Aid Fund, FT Reports  Four leading economies have written to G-20 governments
urging them to raise their contributions to a fund set up in
2009 to help poor countries achieve food security, the Financial
Times reported.  China’s 9.6% Growth May Add Weight to Calls for Currency Gains  China’s economy grew 9.6 percent in the third quarter and
inflation accelerated to the fastest pace in almost two years,
adding weight to calls for the engine of the global recovery to
let its currency appreciate more rapidly.  Stiglitz Urges More Fiscal Stimulus Instead of Fed Easing  Nobel Prize-winning economist Joseph Stiglitz said today
the U.S. needs more fiscal stimulus to aid the economy and that
more unconventional monetary easing by the Federal Reserve would
do little to spur the recovery.  OTHER MARKETS:  Crude Oil Declines After Dollar Recovers, Chinese Economy Slows  Oil declined as investors sold contracts against a
strengthening dollar and a report showed the Chinese economy
grew at the slowest pace in a year.  Geithner Tells WSJ Major Currencies Are ‘Roughly in Alignment’  U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said the
world’s major currencies are “roughly in alignment,”
suggesting there’s no need for the dollar to decline further,
the Wall Street Journal reported, citing an interview. 