-- European Services, Manufacturing Growth Weakens
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2010-10-21T10:28:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/europe-services-manufacturing-growth-slows-as-strong-euro-hurts-recovery.html
Europe’s  services and manufacturing 
 industries  expanded at the weakest pace in a year in October,
suggesting a global slowdown and the rising euro are starting to
undermine the region’s recovery.  A  composite index  based on a survey of euro-area purchasing
managers in both industries fell to 53.4 from 54.1 in September,
London-based Markit Economics said today. Economists forecast a
drop to 53.7, the median of 12 estimates in a Bloomberg survey
shows. A reading above 50 indicates expansion.  Europe’s economy is cooling as a stronger euro threatens to
hurt exports just as governments across the 16-nation region cut
spending to tackle budget deficits. ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said on Oct. 7 that the economy will show more moderate
growth in the second half after surging exports fueled the
fastest expansion in four years in the second quarter.  There could be “some further decline in the composite
index,” said  Nick Kounis , an economist at ABN Amro in
Amsterdam. “The big picture is that following a surprisingly
good start to the year, the euro-zone economy is now slowing to
much more moderate growth rates.”  The euro rose after the report, trading at $1.4011 at 12:05
p.m. in Frankfurt from $1.3964 yesterday.  The region’s  services index  fell to 53.2 in October from
54.1 the previous month, Markit said. That’s the lowest in eight
months. The  manufacturing gauge  rose to 54.1 from 53.7, while an
indicator of manufacturing output slipped to a 13-month low.  German ‘Support’  Global economic growth will probably cool to 4.2 percent
next year from 4.8 percent in 2010, the International Monetary
Fund said on Oct. 6. In the euro region,  gross domestic product 
may rise 1.7 percent this year and 1.5 percent next after
declining 4.1 percent in 2009, the Washington-based fund said.  The German  economy , Europe’s largest, has led a European
recovery as companies boosted spending to meet surging export
demand. Growth in Germany’s manufacturing industries accelerated
in October, while French output  growth  weakened, Markit said.  “Although we expect a continuation of the weakening trend
in activity in the coming months, risks of a double-dip
recession at the euro area-wide level remain low,” said  Marco Valli , chief euro-region economist at UniCredit in Milan. That’s
given “the strong support coming from Germany.”  Global Slowdown  The euro’s 9.5 percent ascent against the dollar over the
past three months may restrain export growth as the global
recovery weakens. U.S. manufacturing growth weakened in
September, while the world’s largest economy also lost more jobs
than forecast. U.K. retail sales unexpectedly fell in September,
the Office for National Statistics said today in London.  With euro-area  unemployment  at a 12-year high discouraging
European consumer spending, companies in the region are relying
on faster-growing economies to boost sales.  LVMH Moet Hennessy
Louis Vuitton SA , the world’s largest luxury-goods maker, said
on Oct. 14 that third-quarter sales jumped 24 percent, partly on
Asian demand.  Luca Cordero die Montezemolo , chairman of  Ferrari SpA , said
on Sept. 30 that the company will increase profit by more than
10 percent this year, helped by emerging markets. German rival
 Porsche SE  said last month that it expects the “positive
trend” to continue after full-year revenue rose 18 percent.  U.S., Japan  “The euro-region recovery remains relatively fragile,”
said  Juergen Michels , chief euro-area economist at Citigroup
Inc. in London. “We had a relatively good first half of the
year and there’s no question that there will be some cooling.”  Central banks around the globe are already seeking ways to
strengthen their economies. The Bank of Japan on Oct. 5 pledged
to keep its benchmark interest rate at “virtually zero” after
unexpectedly cutting borrowing costs for the first time since
2008, while the  Federal Reserve  has signaled it’s ready to
purchase additional assets.  The ECB on Oct. 7 kept its  benchmark interest rate  at a
record low of 1 percent after last month extending emergency
liquidity for banks into 2011. The Frankfurt-based central bank
last month forecast the euro-area economy to expand about 1.6
percent this year and around 1.4 percent in 2011. That’s up from
previous projections of 1 percent and 1.2 percent.  “The ECB doesn’t seem to be tuned into risks to the same
degree as others,” said  Simon Barry , chief economist at Ulster
Bank in Dublin. “If other central banks are becoming
increasingly concerned and if the global economy does weaken
over the next quarters, there’s little doubt that it will have
an impact on the European economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simone Meier  in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  