-- Ex-Florida Money Manager Nadel Sentenced to 168 Months in Prison for Fraud
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2010-10-21T23:28:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/ex-florida-money-manager-nadel-sentenced-to-168-months-in-prison-for-fraud.html
Arthur Nadel , the Florida money
manager accused of defrauding investors of $168 million, was
sentenced today to 14 years in prison.  Nadel, the 77-year-old founder of Scoop Management Inc. in
Sarasota, Florida, pleaded guilty in February to a 15-count
indictment filed by U.S. prosecutors in New York. The charges
included securities fraud, wire fraud and mail fraud.  “This was a massive fraud perpetrated on vulnerable
victims who rightly deserve the protection of the law,” U.S.
District Judge  John Koeltl  said before imposing the sentence.  Koeltl rejected a defense request for a five-year sentence
as too low. He cited Nadel’s age and fragile health in
sentencing him to less than the 19 1/2 years sought by
prosecutors.  “Arthur, you are an evil person,” Michael Sullivan, an
Illinois man who was one of Nadel’s 390 victims, said while
addressing the court during the hearing. “Only an imbecile or a
sociopath would do something this egregious.”  In addition to the prison sentence, Koeltl imposed three
years of supervised release and ordered Nadel to forfeit $162
million in proceeds from the crime. Koeltl said he will
determine later how much to order Nadel to pay in restitution to
his victims.  In Custody  Nadel has been in custody since surrendering to federal
authorities in Tampa, Florida, in January 2009. He disappeared
for two weeks as state authorities began investigating investor
complaints about missing money.  Nadel said today he has spent his time in jail thinking
about the harm he caused his victims and read the letters they
sent to the court.  “Recently I read their letters over and over again until
their anger and outrage became my own against myself,” Nadel
told Koeltl.  Nadel’s court-appointed attorney, Mark Gombiner, told the
judge his client is an “old, frail human being who doesn’t have
very much longer to live.” He asked for a sentence that would
leave “some hope that he won’t die in a prison cell.”  “Mr. Nadel feels very, very remorseful for  what has
happened to the people he betrayed,” Gombiner said.  Ponzi Scheme  At his February guilty plea, Nadel said he invented net
asset values for the hedge funds he once ran and illegally
transferred money from them. The government alleged he operated
the Ponzi scheme for 10 years beginning in 1999, covering
withdrawals with money from new investors.  Prosecutors suggested in court papers that Nadel should
receive a term of between 19 1/2 and 24 years “to reflect the
seriousness of his offenses.”  Nadel falsely told existing and potential investors that
his funds were yielding from 11 percent to 55 percent a year,
when in fact the returns were usually negative, according to
court documents.  “We’re talking about people who scraped together, through
hard work over decades, money that they put in Mr. Nadel’s
hands,” Assistant U.S. Attorney  Reed Brodsky  said in today’s
hearing.  Investors were told the funds’ accounts had more than $360
million, although less than $125,000 was available when the
scheme collapsed, according to prosecutors. Nadel took in $63.9
million in fees and trading profits, including $45 million from
2005 to 2007, they said.  The money supported Nadel’s lavish lifestyle and allowed
him to invest in businesses including a real-estate project in
North Carolina and his wife’s flower shop, prosecutors said.  At the request of Nadel’s attorney, Koeltl said he will
recommend that Nadel be sentenced to the federal medical center
in Butner, North Carolina, which is part of the prison complex
where  Bernard L. Madoff  is serving a 150-year sentence for
history’s biggest Ponzi scheme.  The case is U.S. v. Nadel, 1:09-cr-00433, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
 Bob Van Voris  in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  