-- Bombings Trial Witness Says He Left Al-Qaeda Over Payment of Wife's Care
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2010-10-21T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/ex-terrorist-at-new-york-trial-cries-over-al-qaeda-s-treatment-of-his-wife.html
A former al-Qaeda member testified
at a terrorism trial in New York that he left the group after it
failed to pay for his pregnant wife’s medical care and later
began cooperating with a U.S. probe of two embassy bombings.  L’Houssaine Kherchtou, 46, a Moroccan, testified yesterday
for the second day in the trial of  Ahmed Ghailani , who is
accused of assisting in al-Qaeda’s bombings of two U.S.
embassies in Africa. The 1998 attacks killed 224 people,
including 12 U.S. citizens. Prosecutors say he helped buy the
truck that was used to deliver the bomb to the embassy in Dar es
Salaam. The resulting explosion left 11 people dead.  Kherchtou, who joined the group in 1991, first became a
terrorist training camp instructor and later took flight lessons
to become  Osama bin Laden ’s personal pilot, he said. He
testified money became scarce for al-Qaeda members by late 1995
after the group moved to Sudan and a series of businesses
launched by bin Laden, including mining and gem dealing, failed.
He said al-Qaeda leaders decided to relocate to Afghanistan in
early 1996 after the Taliban took control of the country.  “I decided not to go back with them,” said Kherchtou, who
said he decided to remain in Khartoum, Sudan.  “At that time I had one girl, one kid, and another on the
way,” he said. “I didn’t see no future for those kids in
Afghanistan and I decided not to go.”  Al-Qaeda Refusal  Assistant Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Harry Chernoff  asked
Kherchtou whether he had a dispute with al-Qaeda leaders at the
time about medical treatment for his wife.  Kherchtou dropped his head, began to cry, nodded and wiped
his eyes under his wire-rimmed glasses. U.S. District Judge
 Lewis Kaplan  said he didn’t hear Kherchtou’s answer.  Chernoff rephrased the question saying, “Did your wife
need treatment for her pregnancy and al-Qaeda refused to pay the
bill?”  “Yes,” Kherchtou whispered, and began to weep, taking a
tissue and wiping tears from his face and blowing his nose.  When Kherchtou testified in 2001 at the first trial of four
co-defendants charged in the bombings, he testified he was
appalled to discover when he returned from a trip to Nairobi,
Kenya, that his wife, who needed $500 for a cesarean section,
was begging for money on the streets to pay for her care at a
Sudanese hospital.  Leaving Al-Qaeda  Kherchtou testified that he asked al-Qaeda to pay the
medical bills and it refused. He testified he decided to leave
the group after that dispute.  Kherchtou told the jury yesterday that he has pleaded
guilty to conspiring with bin Laden to kill U.S. nationals and
hasn’t been sentenced. He said that while he faces as long as
life in prison for his crimes, U.S. prosecutors have agreed to
write to the judge who sentences him. He could face no prison
time at all if he continues to help the U.S. government with its
investigations of al-Qaeda, he testified.  He said he agreed to cooperate with the Manhattan U.S.
Attorney’s office in 2000 after a series of unnamed intelligence
officers came to him and told him they were aware of all his
activities with al-Qaeda.  Kherchtou also testified that he didn’t have advance
knowledge about the attacks and that he was in Nairobi on the
day the U.S. embassy was bombed for a job interview as a
professional pilot.  Kherchtou said he, his wife and their daughters now live in
the U.S.  Ghailani, a Tanzanian and the first Guantanamo detainee to
be prosecuted in a U.S. civilian court, has pleaded not guilty
to the charges. His lawyers told jurors he was “duped” by al-
Qaeda members into helping collect items used in the attack.  The case is U.S. v. Ghailani, 98-cr-01023, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 