-- Expanded Pac-10 Conference to Share Revenue, Hold Football Championship
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-10-21T20:19:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/expanded-pac-10-conference-to-share-revenue-hold-football-championship.html
The  Pacific 10 Conference  agreed to
share revenue equally and hold a championship football game as
part of its first expansion since 1978.  The  University of Utah  and  University of Colorado  will
officially join the conference on July 1, 2011, boosting the
league’s membership to 12 schools.  Commissioner  Larry Scott  said schools in the new Pac-12
will equally share revenue, which will increase with the
conference championship game and a new television contract
starting in 2012-13. Previously, schools such as the  University
of Southern California  and  UCLA  received more money as part of
an appearance-based revenue-sharing model.  “With all that we have done and are going to be doing in
terms of building a bigger enterprise for this conference --
pooling all media rights -- equality of sharing going forward
was important,” Scott said at a news conference.  USC and UCLA will each still receive an annual bonus of $2
million until the league’s total revenue almost doubles to $170
million, Scott said. That will likely come after the new TV
contract and championship game are in place. Utah and Colorado
also get slightly smaller shares of league revenue during an
initial three-year phase-in period, Scott said.  The Pac-12 will join the  Southeastern Conference ,  Big 12 
and Atlantic Coast Conference among major college leagues
holding championship games for football. The expanded conference
will be split into six-team divisions that Scott said are
competitively balanced and preserve traditional rivalries.  Title Game  The division winner with the better conference record will
host the Pac-12 title game.  The conference’s North Division will feature the University
of Washington, Washington State, University of Oregon, Oregon
State, Stanford University and the University of California. The
South Division includes USC, UCLA, Arizona, Arizona State,
Colorado and Utah.  The Pac-12 will play a nine-game conference football
schedule, with four games against non-division opponents. There
won’t be divisions for other sports.  Scott said the Pac-12 is also “seriously exploring” the
formation of its own media network. The Big Ten Network will
make that league more than $87 million in 2011, the Los Angeles
Times said, citing media research firm SNL Kagan.  “It’s something we’re very interested in,” Scott said.
“Having said that, until we go through negotiations with
incumbent partners, there will be no decisions about launching a
network. We have obligations to negotiate with existing
partners.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  