-- Fannie, Freddie May Draw $363 Billion, FHFA Says
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2010-10-22T00:13:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/fannie-freddie-may-draw-363-billion-fhfa-says-update1-.html
Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , the
mortgage-finance companies operating under U.S. conservatorship,
could draw a total of $363 billion in Treasury Department aid
through 2013 if the housing market worsens, the Federal Housing
Finance Agency said.  The FHFA, which oversees the government-sponsored entities,
offered the estimate today as the worst-case in an analysis
modeled on the stress tests conducted on the nation’s biggest
banks last year. The actual total cost to taxpayers under the
regulator’s most dire scenario would be $259 billion, because
almost 30 percent of the funds would come back to Treasury as
dividend payments on its holdings of senior preferred stock.  Under the best-case scenario, which assumes a strong near-
term recovery in the housing market, the total cost to taxpayers
would be $221 billion, or $142 billion after dividends. A
middle-ground scenario would require total aid of $238 billion,
or $154 billion after dividends. So far the companies have drawn
$148 billion and returned $13 billion in dividends to Treasury.  “These projections are intended to give policy makers and
the public useful snapshots of potential outcomes for the
taxpayer support of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac,” FHFA Acting
Director  Edward J. DeMarco  said in a statement released with the
report. “The results reflect the potential effects of a limited
set of hypothetical changes in house prices.”  Brink of Collapse  Regulators took control of Washington-based Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac of McLean, Virginia, in September 2008 after losses
stemming from the subprime mortgage crisis pushed them to the
brink of collapse. Since then, the two companies have used U.S.
aid to buy and guarantee home loans while Washington policy
makers weigh an overhaul of the mortgage-finance system.  “The Obama administration has made clear that the current
structure of the government’s role in housing finance, while
necessary in the short-term to provide critical support to a
still-fragile housing market, is simply not acceptable for the
long-term,”  Jeffrey Goldstein , Treasury’s undersecretary for
domestic finance, said in a statement.  Nearly 90 percent of the companies’ losses are behind them,
with most attributable to loans made before the government took
control, Goldstein said.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac funded more than 62 percent of
new mortgages in the first half of this year, according to
Inside Mortgage Finance, a trade publication in Bethesda,
Maryland.  ‘Good Grasp’  The FHFA analysis, which relies heavily on housing-price
projections, presents an incomplete picture of the risks facing
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, said  Karen Shaw Petrou , managing
director at Federal Financial Analytics, a Washington-based
research firm.  “The report provides a sense of the GSEs’ likely cost to
taxpayers, but nowhere near a definitive picture of it,” Petrou
said in an analysis of the report.  The range of the FHFA’s projections “suggests the agency
doesn’t have a very good grasp on the GSEs’ losses going
forward,” said  Guy Cecala , chief executive officer of Inside
Mortgage Finance.  The Congressional Budget Office calculated last year that
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac would need $389 billion in federal
subsidies through 2019. The White House Office of Management and
Budget said in February that aid could total as little as $160
billion if the economy strengthens.  Other estimates are higher.  Sean Egan , president of Egan-
Jones Ratings Co. in Haverford, Pennsylvania, said a 20 percent
loss on the companies’ loans and guarantees could lead to a $1
trillion taxpayer bailout.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lorraine Woellert  in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 