-- Fatal Auto Crashes Involving U.S. Teens Drop 36% as States Boost Training
-- B y   P a t   W e c h s l e r
-- 2010-10-21T16:16:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/fatal-car-crashes-decline-in-u-s-teens-as-states-impose-more-driver-rules.html
Fatal car crashes involving teenage
drivers in the U.S. dropped 36 percent as states required more
training and seat-belt use rose, a government report said.  Fatal accidents with a 16- or 17-year-old at the wheel fell
to 1,437 in 2008, from 2,230 four years earlier, the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention said today in the Morbidity &
Mortality Weekly Report. During the five years, 11,019 people
died in the wrecks, with the teen drivers themselves making up
more than a third of the toll.  While the adolescents’ fatal crashes have been declining
since at least 1990, auto accidents remain the leading cause of
death in the age group, the Atlanta-based CDC said. For every
mile on the road,  teen drivers  are four times more likely to
have a wreck than older drivers, said Ruth Shults, an
epidemiologist at the CDC’s Center for Injury Prevention and
Control. Seat-belt laws and training mandates are reducing the
risk, she said.  “We’ve seen a pretty steady decline,” Shults said in a
telephone interview. “But when teens first start to drive is
still a very dangerous time for them.”  Graduated driver licensing programs, now in all states in
the U.S. except North Dakota, have been shown to cut the hazard
for teens, Shults said. These programs extend the time during
which teenagers must adhere to rules such as not driving at
night and minimizing the number of passengers in the car, Shults
said.  While the programs have yielded as much as a 40 percent
reduction in teens’ fatal crashes, parents remain the “most
important influence,” Shults said.  “Parents control the access to a car and set the rules for
its use,” Shults said. “They should spend as much time as
possible coaching their children as they can. Spending time and
setting rules of the road, with consequences if they don’t
follow them, pay off in fewer crashes and tickets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pat Wechsler  in New York at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 