-- Fed's Bullard Favors $100 Billion Start to Easing
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2010-10-21T20:55:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/fed-s-bullard-would-favor-100-billion-in-asset-purchases.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  proposed the central bank buy $100
billion in long-term Treasuries next month and calibrate
subsequent purchases based on the course of economic recovery.  “If we do decide to go ahead with quantitative easing, I
think there is a good program we could adopt, one I like, which
is to think in units of $100 billion between meetings” of the
Federal Open Market Committee, Bullard said today at a
conference hosted by the district bank. “We could give forward
guidance for the next meeting that would suggest how likely the
committee thinks we would continue these purchases.”  The Fed is considering buying more Treasury securities, as
well as taking steps to boost inflation expectations, to
stimulate the economy and reduce unemployment persisting near 10
percent, according to minutes of the Sept. 21 meeting of policy
makers released last week. The central bank was prepared to ease
monetary policy “before long,” the minutes said.  Bullard’s proposal, described to reporters at the
conference, is in line with his prior comments urging the
gradual calibration of monetary policy to changes in the
economy. He said he is in “sharp disagreement” to the idea of
starting the program with big purchases of assets, which he
criticized in an August speech as a “shock and awe” approach.  Best Policy  “This decision could be reviewed at each meeting,”
Bullard said. “That would give the ability at some point to
pause if the economic data were particularly strong or increase
amounts if the data came in weak. This is the kind of
flexibility the committee really needs to get the best monetary
policy we can have.”  In response to reporters’ questions, Bullard said he
retains the option to back away from urging introduction of his
program at the November meeting, noting that some additional
economic data including that for U.S. gross domestic product
hasn’t been reported.  The U.S. economy’s performance has been steady over the
past few months, free of the “economic shock” that could bring
about a broad-based decline in prices similar to the experience
in Japan, he said.  Bullard compared his proposal the making quarter-point
changes in the  federal funds rate . The changes, while having
small effects over time, add up to a larger impact, he said.  Yields Already Fell  “If we do go ahead at the meeting in November, we might
not actually see much effect” because long-term yields have
already fallen on investors’ expectation of asset purchases, he
said.  Bullard warned in July of a rising risk of a Japanese-style
deflation in the U.S. and called for purchases of Treasury
securities as a response to any negative shock. The latest plan
echoes Bullard’s call a year ago for a quantitative rule to
determine the suitable amount of asset purchases over time.  The St. Louis Fed president said while he hasn’t prepared
his 2011 economic forecast, he believes the current slowdown may
prove temporary.  “I am cautiously optimistic about the holiday season,
which looks reasonable, and about 2011,” he said, and many of
the business people he speaks with in the Midwest are more
upbeat about their businesses.  “You don’t expect an economic recovery to be always
smooth,” he said. “It is reasonable to think what we have gone
through is a rough patch,” with the recovery strengthening next
year.  The economy expanded at a “modest pace” in September and
early October with little sign of accelerating and companies
still hesitant to hire, the Fed said yesterday in its Beige Book
survey of regional conditions. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
Oct. 15 that there’s a case for additional stimulus because
inflation is too low and unemployment is too high.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Matthews  in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   Joshua Zumbrun  in Chapel Hill at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  