-- Feinberg Says `Time Will Tell' If His TARP Pay Remedies Worked
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2010-10-21T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/feinberg-says-in-testimony-time-will-tell-if-tarp-pay-remedies-worked.html
Kenneth Feinberg , the Obama
administration’s former special master on executive pay, said
his decisions to cut executive pay at bailed-out companies
including Citigroup Inc. and  Bank of America Corp.  have
triggered some initial positive results.  “Only time will tell if I was successful in achieving the
right balance, but the initial indications are positive,”
Feinberg said in testimony prepared for a hearing today before a
congressional panel overseeing the Treasury Department’s
Troubled Asset Relief  Program . Feinberg said 84 percent of the
executives covered by his 2009 rulings remained with their
companies.  Feinberg, 64, was appointed in June 2009 to monitor
compensation at seven firms that received taxpayer bailouts. Top
executives at those companies, which also include American
International Group Inc. and  General Motors Co. , saw their pay
cut, on average, by 50 percent because of Feinberg’s orders.  If Treasury “gets executive pay right, it could help lay
the foundation for long-term financial stability,” Senator  Ted Kaufman , chairman of the Congressional Oversight Panel, said in
a statement. “Any mistakes, on the other hand, could contribute
to the next financial collapse.”  Kaufman, a Delaware Democrat, was appointed by Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid  to replace  Elizabeth Warren , who left
the panel last month to help set up a new consumer watchdog
agency created by the financial overhaul law.  Excessive Pay  How much pay is excessive remains a subject of debate as
Wall Street firms disclose funds set aside for compensation in
financial statements. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said Oct. 19 it
was designating $13.1 billion for compensation and benefits in
the first nine months of the year, down 21 percent from a year
earlier, as revenue fell 14 percent.  The amount, equal to 43 percent of revenue, is enough to
pay each of the New York-based firm’s 35,400 employees $370,706
for nine months’ work. That’s down from an average $527,192 for
the firm’s 31,700 workers a year earlier, according to Goldman.  Feinberg left in September to become administrator of BP
Plc’s fund to pay claims stemming from the Gulf of Mexico oil
spill.  Patricia Geoghegan , a Treasury Department lawyer, was
named acting special master.  Citigroup, Bank of America and Chrysler Financial Corp.,
are no longer subject to the special master’s decisions. AIG,
GM, Chrysler Group LLC and Ally Financial Inc. remain subject to
future decisions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian Katz  in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  