-- Fiat Raises 2010 Forecasts on Tractors, Trucks Sales
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2010-10-21T16:53:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/fiat-raises-earnings-forecast-for-2010-after-truck-tractor-sales-increase.html
Fiat SpA  raised its 2010  forecasts 
after quarterly profit beat analysts’ estimates on sales of
Iveco trucks and Case New Holland tractors. The shares jumped to
the  highest level  in more than two years in Milan.  Full-year earnings before interest, taxes and one-time
items will be at least 2 billion euros ($2.8 billion), from a
previous target of as much as 1.2 billion euros, the Turin,
Italy-based carmaker said today. Third-quarter net income
reached 170 million euros, surpassing the 42 million-euro
 average estimate  of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne , who also runs
Chrysler Group LLC, is spinning off Fiat’s industrial units to
focus on reviving carmaking operations. Italy’s largest
manufacturer led a sixth consecutive monthly decline in European
car sales in September as demand wanes after government
incentives expired, industry figures showed.  “Results delivered by the auto business are better than
expected,” said  Erich Hauser , an analyst at Credit Suisse.
“Despite a decline in unit sales, Fiat managed to show flat
year on year revenue, helped by an exchange rate that favored
Fiat in Brazil.”  Two-Year High  Fiat  rose  52 cents, or 4.4 percent, to 12.24 euros, the
highest price since June 2008, in Milan trading. The stock has
advanced 19 percent this year, compared with a 22 percent gain
in PSA Peugeot Citroen and a 44 percent advance in  Volkswagen
AG , Europe’s largest carmaker.  Earnings before interest, taxes and one-time gains or
losses, which Fiat calls trading profit, rose 90 percent to 586
million euros, topping the 409 million-euro average estimate of
analysts. Nine-month trading profit more than doubled to 1.59
billion euros.  Full-year sales will top 55 billion euros from an earlier
forecast of more than 50 billion euros, Fiat said today. Third-
quarter revenue climbed 12 percent to 13.5 billion euros. Full-
year net income will be about 400 million euros instead of an
earlier projection for break-even, Fiat said.  Group sales may increase to 59 billion euros and trading
profit to as much as 2.6 billion euros in 2011, according to the
company’s business presentation in April.  “Our view on 2011 hasn’t changed since,” Marchionne said
today on a conference call with analysts. Fiat will update its
2011 targets in January, he said.  Incentives Expire  Auto sales in Italy in the first quarter of 2011 will be
worse than the same period in 2010, just before government
incentives in Italy for scrapping old cars for more fuel
efficient vehicles expired, Marchionne said today, without
giving numbers.  The carving out of operations including Iveco and  CNH
Global NV  into Fiat Industrial SpA will give Marchionne two
entities to facilitate future alliances. Fiat plans to list Fiat
Industrial shares on the Milan exchange Jan. 3.  “Investors are more focused on the spinoff,” said  Wolfram Mrowetz , who oversees 200 million euros including Fiat shares as
chairman of Alisei SIM in Milan. “Fiat is a stock to have in
your portfolio before the split, which will unveil the real
value of the two units and may lead to mergers and
acquisitions.”  Chrysler Stake  Fiat, which  acquired  a 20 percent stake in Auburn Hills,
Michigan-based Chrysler last year, expects to raise the holding
to 25 percent by the first quarter and to 35 percent by the end
of next year. Marchionne plans to take the automaker public,
probably in the second half of 2011, he said last month. Fiat is
“no position” now to decide on an option to acquire a further
16 percent in the U.S. carmaker after the holding rises to 35
percent, Marchionne said.  The CEO reiterated that the Alfa Romeo unit isn’t for sale
and may become a “premium brand” helped by the integration
with Chrysler.  “If someone will show up with a number which is by
definition outside the boundaries of what we consider achievable
outcomes, Fiat will have to take a hard look,” he said.  Volkswagen AG, Europe’s largest carmaker, is interested in
buying Alfa, supervisory board Chairman Ferdinand Piech said
last month.  Fiat’s net industrial debt rose 7 percent in the third
quarter to 3.97 billion euros. The Italian carmaker cut its debt
target for end of the year to less than 4 billion euros from
more than 5 billion euros.  Fabbrica Italia  Marchionne wants to boost efficiency at Fiat’s less
productive domestic plants, in exchange for shifting production
of its Panda model from Poland to Pomigliano. Fiat plans to
invest 20 billion euros through 2014 in Italy to improve plants
and vehicle development if unions agree to curb strikes and add
shifts.  “Fiat shares are appealing as the auto sector is reporting
better than expected” results, said  Emanuele Oggioni , who
manages 650 million euros including Fiat stock at Saint George
Capital Management in Lugano, Switzerland.  Third-quarter deliveries in Europe declined 25 percent to
197,800 vehicles, according to Fiat. The company’s passenger-car
sales worldwide slumped 16 percent to 391,400 cars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tommaso Ebhardt  in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  