-- Fidelity National Plunges as Insurer Limits Funds Available for Dividends
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a   a n d   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2010-10-21T20:04:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/fidelity-national-plunges-as-insurer-limits-funds-available-for-dividends.html
Fidelity National Financial Inc ., the
largest U.S. title insurer, plunged the most in 18 months after
saying it will use a smaller portion of earnings for  dividends 
until the company is more confident the economy will recover.  About 30 percent of this year’s net earnings will be used
for common stock dividends in 2011, Jacksonville, Florida-based
Fidelity National said in a statement late yesterday. That’s
down from more than 60 percent, the company said today on a
conference call.  “If we thought we were coming out of this downturn in
short order, we would have maintained the payout ratio,” an
executive said on the call. “The board just felt, ‘Let’s be a
little more conservative for the next year to see how the
economy does.’” The insurer said it may use some of the funds
it saves to repurchase shares and repay debt.  The housing slump has weighed on demand for title insurers,
who use their records and public documents to verify a seller is
the home’s true owner and that the property is free from liens.
Sales of existing houses in the U.S. were the second-lowest on
record in August, the most recent figures available, according
to the National Association of Realtors.  Net income in the third quarter was $83.2 million, compared
with $73.4 million a year earlier, the insurer said separately
yesterday. Fidelity National also said that  George Scanlon  was
promoted to chief executive officer, replacing  Alan Stinson .  The insurer dropped $1.76, or 12 percent, to $12.98 at 4
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock has
declined about 3.6 percent this year.  ‘Waiting for a Turn’  “The primary driver is the news that the board has decided
to change the dividend payout target,” said  Mark DeVries , an
analyst with Barclays Capital. The  payout  is 18 cents a share
per quarter, up from 15 cents in the first quarter.  The insurer “had a fairly attractive 5 percent dividend
yield for the last year and it’s also had a fairly steady
dividend policy,” DeVries said. “The 5 percent dividend
yield was an important source of returns for investors who were
otherwise waiting for a turn in the mortgage cycle.”  Fidelity said yesterday that it will require lenders to
sign a warranty assuring their paperwork is sound before backing
sales of foreclosed homes, as banks halt property seizures and
state attorneys general investigate whether lenders have taken
illegal shortcuts in foreclosing on homes.  Bank of America
Corp.,  the biggest U.S. lender, agreed to a similar contract
with Fidelity on Oct. 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Natalie Doss  in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net ;
 Danielle Kucera  in New York at 
 dkucera@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut in New York at   dkraut@bloomberg.net  