-- Finra Said to Name ex-SEC Lawyer Bradley Bennett as Enforcement Director
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2010-10-21T22:08:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/finra-said-to-name-baker-botts-s-bennett-as-agency-s-enforcement-director.html
The Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority named  Bradley Bennett , a partner at law firm  Baker
Botts LLP,  as head of its enforcement unit, the industry-funded
brokerage regulator said.  Bennett, 47, will replace acting enforcement director  James Shorris  on Jan. 1, Washington-based Finra said today in a
statement. He will be responsible for managing a 300-member
enforcement staff in 17 U.S. offices, Finra said.  Bennett, who serves as co-chairman of the white collar and
corporate investigations group at Baker Botts in Washington, has
represented corporate officers and investment advisers in Finra
and U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission probes of accounting
fraud, insider trading and financial disclosure, according to
the law firm’s website.  “It’s a tremendous professional privilege for me to have
the opportunity to work with people as talented as the folks
over at Finra and to work on issues as important as the ones
they deal with,” Bennett said in a telephone interview.  Before joining Baker Botts in 2001, Bennett worked at
Miller Cassidy Larroca & Lewin LLP, and spent four years in the
SEC’s enforcement unit. He holds degrees in government and law
from St. Lawrence University and Georgetown University.  “Brad will bring extensive knowledge and experience in
dealing with violations of securities rules,” said Finra Chief
Executive Officer  Richard Ketchum . “It is imperative that Finra
aggressively deal with wrongdoing in the industry to help
rebuild investor trust and confidence in the markets.”  Shorris became acting enforcement director after  Susan Merrill , 53, stepped down in March.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joshua Gallu  in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 