-- Floating Money Fund Price May Backfire as Investors React, U.S. Panel Says
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2010-10-21T21:49:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/floating-money-fund-prices-risk-unintended-consequences-hurting-market.html
Forcing money-market funds to give
up the stable $1 share price that helped the industry attract
almost $3 trillion may lead to unpredictable investor responses,
according to an advisory body to the Obama administration.  While a floating net asset value may reduce the risk of a
run on money funds during a crisis, such a change could push
investors into unregulated substitutes and hurt the industry’s
ability to supply companies with short-term credit, according to
a report published today by the President’s Working Group on
Financial Markets.  The report, commissioned by the U.S. Treasury Department in
June 2009 after the failure of the $62.5 billion  Reserve Primary
Fund  caused a run on the industry, examines potential regulatory
changes aimed at making money funds more stable without
endorsing any option. The Working Group said it would ask the
Financial Stability Oversight Council, established by the Dodd-
Frank reform bill, to identify the best choices and that the
Securities and Exchange Commission would seek public comments.  “The report may raise more questions than it answers,”
 Peter Crane , president of Crane Data LLC, a money-fund research
firm in Westborough, Massachusetts, said in a telephone
interview. “It doesn’t appear to push policy in any one
direction.”  The report “appropriately takes into account the strengths
and weaknesses and potential consequences of various regulatory
Proposals,”  Paul Schott Stevens , president of the Washington-
based Investment Company Institute, said in an e-mailed
statement.  ‘Unintended Consequences’  A floating share price could lead to “several unintended
consequences” as investors react to the fluctuations, the
Working Group said in its 35-page report.  The Treasury requested the report hoping to prevent a
repeat of the panic that swept money-market fund investors in
September 2008 following the Reserve Primary collapse. That fund
held debt issued by bankrupt Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., and
its failure to meet redemptions after falling to 97 cents a
share sparked a run that helped freeze global credit markets.  The SEC this year required money funds to increase cash
holdings and easy-to-sell securities and provide greater
disclosure of holdings.  Other alternatives examined by today’s report include a
private emergency liquidity facility, insurance for money funds
and a two-tiered system that would allow both stable-priced and
floating-priced funds to exist with different sets of
regulations for each.  ‘Contagion Effects’  The Working Group said a liquidity facility, if large
enough, could “reduce contagion effects” during a run by
providing an easy source of cash to meet redemptions.  The group is headed by Treasury Secretary Timothy  Geithner 
and includes Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ,
SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro , and Commodities Futures Trading
Commission Chairman  Gary Gensler .  Money-fund managers, backed by the ICI, have for more than
a year been preparing plans for an emergency liquidity facility
and lobbied heavily against the idea of a floating share price
for funds.  Such a move would “destroy money market funds as we know
them, imposing severe dislocations on America’s households,
businesses and governments, and disrupting the American
economy,” Stevens said in a July 26 speech in Boston.  The liquidity facility envisioned by the industry would
purchase holdings from a fund at face value to help it meet
redemptions without having to sell assets at a discount in the
event of a crisis. It wouldn’t insure funds against losses from
issuer defaults on their holdings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Condon  in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  