-- Foreign Banks Selling Swaps in U.S. to Face Dodd-Frank Rules, Gensler Says
-- B y   A s j y l y n   L o d e r
-- 2010-10-21T17:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/foreign-banks-selling-swaps-in-u-s-to-face-dodd-frank-rules-gensler-says.html
International banks selling
derivatives in the U.S. will face higher capital requirements
and new business conduct standards under the most sweeping
rewrite of Wall Street rules since the Great Depression,
according to a top regulator.  The Dodd-Frank financial overhaul gives the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission the power to regulate foreign
companies with derivatives businesses in the U.S., said
Commission Chairman  Gary Gensler  in a speech today before the
 Institute of International Bankers  in New York.  “Some of you may be wondering if your bank will be
regulated in the U.S. as a swap dealer,” Gensler said in
prepared remarks for the speech. “If your bank is doing
business here in the U.S., offering swaps to U.S.
counterparties, you may want to take a close look at the
statute.”  The CFTC and the Securities and Exchange Commission have a
year, in most cases, to draft new rules governing the $615
trillion over-the-counter derivatives market, including which
companies will be deemed swap dealers or major swap
participants, designations that entail increased scrutiny as
well as margin and capital requirements.  Gensler’s comments addressed concerns that the law will
chase businesses overseas. The commission has been working with
European regulators to draft a similar set of rules.  International Solution  “All this does is show the need to take a deep breath and
come up with a comprehensive international regulatory
solution,” said  Mark Young , an attorney specializing in
derivatives regulation at the Washington law firm Skadden, Arps,
Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP. “Trying to handle this sequentially
-- U.S., Asia, Europe -- is going to result in these pockets of
uncertainty, overlap and potential conflict.”  The legislation is named for its primary authors, Senate
Banking Committee Chairman  Christopher Dodd , a Connecticut
Democrat, and House Financial Services Chairman  Barney Frank , a
Massachusetts Democrat. It mandates that most interest-rate,
credit-default and other swaps be processed by clearinghouses
after being traded on exchanges or swap-execution facilities.
All swaps will have to be reported to central databases called
swap data repositories.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Asjylyn Loder in New York at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 