-- Fortescue U.S. Bonds May Yield 8%, Plans More Debt, Southern Cross Says
-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 2010-10-22T05:03:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/fortescue-u-s-bonds-may-yield-8-plans-more-debt-southern-cross-says.html
Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. ,
Australia’s third-biggest producer of iron ore, may price a
$2.04 billion sale of bonds to yield about 8 percent, according
to Southern Cross Equities Ltd.  The Perth-based mining company may seek to raise another $4
billion through two further bond sales next year to help fund
development of its Solomon mine, Southern Cross analysts led by
 Charlie Aitken  wrote in a note today, citing a meeting between
Fortescue Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Forrest  and the Sydney-
based brokerage’s London office.  “From the meeting it was clear Andrew is going headlong
for growth,” the analysts said. “He has developed a highly
cash generative business that will support the finance and
construction of the Solomon mines and associated
infrastructure.”  Fortescue, which started shipments from its Pilbara
operations in May 2008, boosted profit 14 percent in the year to
June 30 after increasing shipments 44 percent to 40.1 million
metric tons. The cost of developing the company’s Solomon mine
in Western Australia will be $5.4 billion, about 67 percent more
than initially expected, according to a preliminary sales
document prepared for the current bond sale.  Fortescue’s board will consider a feasibility study for the
Solomon deposit in November, the document said. The company may
need to raise as much as $10 billion from debt by 2017 to fund
“aggressive” expansion plans, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
analysts wrote last month.  Fortescue spokesman  Cameron Morse  declined to comment on
the Southern Cross report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McDonald  in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at   wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net . 