-- Australia Beer Market May Shrink as Consumer Tastes Change, Foster's Says
-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 2010-10-21T06:40:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/foster-s-group-says-australian-beer-market-to-fall-own-share-stabilized-.html
Foster’s Group Ltd. , Australia’s
biggest brewer, said it has stabilized its share of domestic
beer sales at about 50 percent in a market that may decline as
much as 5 percent in the second half of 2010.  Shifting consumer tastes to pre-mixed spirit drinks and
cheaper liquors are eroding beer sales,  John Pollaers , head of
the Carlton & United Breweries unit, said in Sydney today. New
Foster’s products such as Fat Yak have helped limit the decline
as traditional brands such as Victoria Bitter, the nation’s top
brew, continue to lose customers, he said.  Victoria Bitter, which generates about A$845 million ($830
million) of annual sales through retail outlets, is losing favor
with younger drinkers seeking sweeter and cheaper alternatives.
Next month Foster’s will start selling three new labels,
including Fusion Black, a sweeter beer, as it seeks to stem the
customer switch.  “Our portfolio is not adequately positioned,” Pollaers
said. “We have moved in the last few months to accelerate our
development.”  Foster’s lost 1 percentage point of Australian beer market
share in the 12 months ended June. About half of that was
because of the decline in traditional beers, Pollaers said.
Those account for 41 percent of beer sold in the nation, down
from 56 percent five years ago, according to Foster’s.  While Foster’s has 65 percent of the traditional beer
market and 49 percent of low-alcohol beers, both segments are
declining as drinkers switch to brews such as the low-
carbohydrate Hahn Super Dry made by second-ranked Lion Nathan
Ltd., a unit of Tokyo-based  Kirin Holdings Co.   Rum, Cola  Foster’s, based in Melbourne, is also losing out to pre-
mixed drinks such as the Bundaberg rum and cola made by  Diageo
Plc , the world’s biggest liquor maker.  Foster’s  rose 0.7 percent to A$6.10 at the 4:10 p.m. close
of trading in Sydney. The stock has gained 11 percent this year
compared with a 5.1 percent decline by the benchmark S&P/ASX 200
index.  The company is making more changes to win back customers
after Chief Executive Officer  Ian Johnston  unwound an earlier
integration strategy for its sales force, creating separate
teams for beer and wine. Sales territories have been redrawn and
representatives are spending more time with retailers,
restaurants and pub owners, Pollaers said.  Foster’s is holding a two-day investor briefing as it
proceeds with plans to split its beer and wine assets into
separate companies next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Fenner  in Sydney at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
mtighe4bloomberg.net 