-- European Refiner Profit Soars on French Strikes: Energy Markets
-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 2010-10-22T14:35:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/french-strike-pushes-europe-refiner-profits-to-2-year-high-energy-markets.html
European oil refiners are getting
the most profit from processing crude in two years as strikes in
France curb production and winter heating-fuel demand rises.  The return from converting crude into fuels such as
gasoline and diesel was $4.88 a barrel in the first two weeks of
October, the highest level since 2008, according to data from  BP
Plc . That compares with an average of $2.59 in the third quarter
of this year.  Nine out of 11 refineries in France have ceased production
and two are running at reduced rates amid protests that began at
ports on Sept. 27 before escalating over President Nicolas Sarkozy’s planned pension overhaul.  Total SA , France’s biggest
oil company, has five sites offline, while  Petroplus Holdings AG 
has two that are affected. Competitors elsewhere in  Europe , such
as  Finland ’s Neste Oil Oyj, are benefitting as margins rise.  “It’s going to be a winter of discontent in France,”
Ehsan Ul-Haq, a Walton-on-Thames, England-based senior market
consultant at KBC Energy Economics, said by phone. “French
refiners are losing the most. All the other refiners are
enjoying higher margins because of the strikes.”  France may have lost 80 percent of its oil-processing
capacity amid the stoppages, according to  Credit Agricole  CIB.
The country can handle 1.84 million barrels of crude a day, the
second-highest amount in Europe after  Germany , according to
Bloomberg data.  Lost Fuel Supplies  The reductions translate to a loss of about 540,000 barrels
a day of gasoil and diesel and 300,000 barrels a day of
gasoline,  Christophe Barret , a global oil analyst at Credit
Agricole in  London , said in an Oct. 18 research note.  “Neste is likely running at full tilt for the moment in
order to benefit from higher margins,” Gudmund Halle Isfeldt,
an oil and gas analyst at DnB NOR ASA,  Norway ’s largest bank,
said by phone from Oslo on Oct. 20. Margins have increased
because of the dispute and planned maintenance halts at plants
in Europe, Matti Lehmus, executive vice-president of Neste’s
oil-products division, said by phone from Espoo, Finland.  Total, Petroplus, Ineos Group Holdings Plc, LyondellBasell
Industries NV, and  Exxon Mobil Corp . began halting operations
last week. The stoppages include Total’s 345,000 barrel-a-day
Gonfreville site in Normandy, the country’s biggest.  Consumers are drawing on supplies from other parts of
Europe. Stockpiles of gasoil, including diesel and heating oil,
in independent storage in Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp had the
biggest weekly drop since mid-June, according to data from PJK
International BV, an industry research consultant.  Margins to Stay High  Inventories fell 7.8 percent to 2.34 million metric tons in
the week to yesterday, the data showed.  “There is plenty of oil stock or oil product stock in
Europe,”  Nobuo Tanaka , executive director of the Paris-based  International Energy Agency  said today in an interview in
Lisbon. “The issue is how to move these stocks into France or
into the necessary refinery.”  The higher margins may continue for the rest of the year,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “The need for France to rebuild product inventories post
resolution of the strike may also further support margins over
the balance of the fourth quarter,” analysts including  Lawrence Eagles  in  New York  said in an Oct. 20 report.  The disruption began with a strike on Sept. 27 at
Marseille, France’s biggest port, preventing dozens of ships
from discharging crude oil. Nationwide strikes that hit
refineries began on Oct. 12, with blockades of deliveries from
plants. France’s CGT union has vowed to continue the refinery
workers’ strike, Nadine Prigent, a negotiator, said yesterday.  Gasoline Rises  Gasoline for immediate loading in Amsterdam-Rotterdam-
Antwerp, Europe’s oil-trading hub, soared to trade at $779 a
metric ton on Oct. 14, the highest intra-day price since May 4.  Barge rates for gasoil to be transported along the Rhine
from the ARA-area to the German town of Karlsruhe climbed to 20
euros ($28) a ton yesterday, compared with 9.25 euros on Sept.
27, according to PJK data. Karlsruhe is about 8 miles (13
kilometers) from  France .  With strikes at French ports preventing deliveries,
“refiners and importers in northeastern France and  Switzerland 
looked at alternative ways to get product” and crude, Pieter Kulsen, founder of PJK, said by phone from Oosterhout in the
Netherlands.  Lower Water Levels  Part of the barge price increase is also related to a drop
in water levels on the Rhine, Kulsen said. Vessels are only able
to load about 40 percent of capacity, he said. The barge
clearance level at Kaub, a potential bottleneck 40 miles west of  Frankfurt , fell to 142 centimeters (56 inches) yesterday from
217 centimeters on Sept. 27, according to PJK data.  The clearance level is the depth at which a laden barge can
travel safely without the risk of running aground.  Thirty-three crude-oil tankers and 30 product tankers are
waiting to load or discharge, port agent Inchcape Shipping
Services said in a notice on its website yesterday.  “The impact of the French strike on the U.S. gasoline
market will be relatively limited” because of ample stockpiles
in that country,  Michael Lewis , a London-based analyst at
Deutsche Bank AG, said in a note today. The U.S. typically
imports the motor fuel from France and other European countries.  Inventories rose 0.5 percent to 219.3 million barrels in
the week to Oct. 15, U.S. Department of Energy data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  