-- HFT Investment Buying China Insurance, Consumer Stocks After Rate Increase
-- B y   J u n g m i n   H o n g
-- 2010-10-21T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/hft-investment-buying-china-insurance-consumer-stocks-after-rate-increase.html
HFT Investment Management Co., part-
owned by a  BNP Paribas SA  unit, is buying Chinese insurance,
consumer and health-care stocks, betting they’ll gain as incomes
rise and after China boosted interest rates.  “Looking at the market for the next five to 12 months, we
prefer those three sectors,” Chief Executive Officer  Tian Rencan , who oversees about $13 billion of assets at the
Shanghai-based company, said in an interview in Seoul. “They’re
already in our portfolios and the weighting could go up,” he
said, declining to be more specific.  China’s central bank unexpectedly lifted the benchmark one-
year lending rate to 5.56 percent from 5.31 percent on Oct. 19,
the first increase since 2007, to try to prevent an asset bubble
after China surpassed Japan in the second quarter as the world’s
second-largest economy. China’s  benchmark stock index  fell 0.7
percent from a six-month high yesterday after economic growth
slowed and inflation accelerated in September to the fastest
pace in 23 months.  Gross domestic product grew 9.6 percent in the third
quarter, the smallest gain in a year, while consumer prices rose
3.6 percent last month, the statistics bureau said yesterday.  China Life Insurance Co. , the nation’s biggest insurer, has
jumped 29 percent this month, outpacing a 12 percent rally by
the benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index . Ping An Insurance (Group)
Co., China’s second-largest insurer, has advanced 24 percent.  Investment Returns  Life insurers will benefit in a rising rate environment
from improved investment returns and increased flexibility to
price products,  Ivan Cheung , a Hong Kong-based analyst at Mirae
Asset Securities, wrote in a report this week.  Kweichow Moutai Co. , China’s biggest baijiu liquor producer
by market value, rose to the highest since December this month,
while  Shandong Dong-E E-Jiao Co. , a traditional Chinese herbal
medicine maker, surged 80 percent this year.  HFT Investment , a venture between BNP Paribas Investment
Partners and Haitong Securities Co., China’s second-biggest
brokerage by market value, plans to boost its workforce by 10
percent next year, according to Tian.  The company, which has 80 percent of assets in equities,
opened its first overseas unit in Hong Kong to serve
international customers, said Tian, who is visiting Seoul to
speak at a conference and meet clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jungmin Hong  in Seoul at 
 jhong47@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at   wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  