-- G-20 Must Coordinate Policy to Avoid Capital Limits, IMF's Blanchard Says
-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 2010-10-21T18:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/g-20-must-manage-currencies-to-avoid-capital-limits-imf-s-blanchard-says.html
Group of 20 finance chiefs must
coordinate currency policies to prevent too many emerging
markets from implementing capital controls and accumulating
reserves, said  Olivier Blanchard , the International Monetary
Fund’s chief economist.  G-20 policy makers are meeting in South Korea through Oct.
23 amid concern that countries are pursuing weaker exchange
rates as a route to stronger economic growth, either by limiting
currency gains with interventions like China or by discussing
possible monetary easing, as the U.S. and U.K. have done.  The emerging market currency gains are part of a global
economic restructuring, Blanchard told reporters in Santiago,
Chile. As the global economy recovers from recession, developing
nations must seek ways to spur domestic demand while the U.S.
tries to increase exports and U.S. consumers spend less, he
said.  “The goal of the G-20 should be to allow for this
rebalancing,” said Blanchard, who is in Chile to attend a
central bank seminar. “The important point is that in emerging
market countries -- not all of them again, but on average -- an
appreciation is needed for the world to recover fully.”  The Hungarian forint has strengthened 13 percent against
the dollar in the past three months, leading the 25 emerging
market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Chile’s peso has
appreciated 7.8 percent, beating out six other major currencies
in Latin America.  China Rate Decision  China’s decision to increase its benchmark rate for the
first time since 2007 was driven more by a desire to prevent the
world’s second-largest economy from overheating than to increase
the value of the yuan, he said. China is reluctant to allow its
currency to appreciate, he said.  “We understand the Chinese position,” he said. “At the
same time, it makes it harder for other countries to accept an
appreciation because if you’re competing with China and China is
not changing its exchange rate, you’re going to lose your
competitiveness.”  Steps by countries like Brazil to stem capital inflows
should be carried out in a prudent manner, Blanchard said.
Brazil’s government has twice raised inflow taxes this month to
protect exports from what Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  on
Sept. 27 called a global currency war.  “There are contexts in which the capital flows may be so
large that they create problems for countries,” he said. “In
the case of Brazil, it is reasonable given the appreciation that
they have seen to think about the use of, again, macro
prudential measures, in addition to the capital controls that
they have put in place.”  The appreciation of the Chilean peso has been
“reasonable,” he said, adding that he is not an expert on the
South American economy.  “If the appreciation became much stronger, then I would
think that the central bank and the Ministry of Finance would
think about the usual tools: more intervention, and perhaps
macro prudential tools such as restrictions on, again, foreign
currency borrowing,” Blanchard said.  Chile’s central bank last intervened in the currency market
in 2008 by buying dollars in the spot market in $50 million
daily tranches.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Randy Woods  in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  