-- G-20 Seeks to Refrain From Competitive Undervaluation
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2010-10-21T08:53:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/g-20-will-pledge-accord-to-avoid-competing-undervaluation-of-currencies.html
Group of 20 finance chiefs are
planning to say members will refrain from “competitive
undervaluation” of their currencies in a bid to soothe trade
tensions before they derail the world economy.  Finance ministers and central bankers will say after talks
conclude in Gyeongju, South Korea, on Oct. 23 they want a “more
market-determined exchange rate system that minimizes adverse
effects of excess volatility and disorderly movements in
exchange rates,” an official from a G-20 country said
today, citing a draft statement and speaking on condition of
anonymity.  G-20 policy makers are convening amid concern countries are
pursuing weaker exchange rates as a route to stronger economic
growth, either by limiting currency gains with interventions
like China or by discussing possible monetary easing, as the U.S.
and U.K. have done. The risk is of a protectionist backlash that
curbs economic growth, with emerging markets including Brazil
and South Korea already introducing capital controls to stay
competitive.  The U.S. is pushing for the G-20 to agree on a statement of
cooperation on exchange-rate issues either this weekend or when
its leaders meet next month in Seoul, a U.S. official said today.  Feel Comfortable  China needs to let the yuan rise so other emerging market
nations will feel comfortable letting market forces affect their
currencies, Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said in a
Wall Street Journal interview published today, repeating a theme
from speeches he gave Oct. 6 in Washington and Oct. 18 in Palo
Alto, California. Geithner also said that “major currencies”
are “roughly in alignment now.”  The U.S. is trying to forge a united front among the Group
of Seven nations in urging China and other emerging market
nations to let their currencies rise, said  Marc Chandler , global
head of currency strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in
New York.  “How the dollar does against the euro and sterling might
be different than how the dollar does against Asia,” Chandler
said. He predicted there would be increasing pressure on China
at the G-20 meetings, without an international agreement on
intervention such as the Plaza Accord in 1985.  China’s Growth  China’s surprise shift to higher interest rates this week
underscores the task developing nations face as they struggle to
keep speculative cash from destabilizing their economies.
Pressure grew today on the country to allow the yuan to extend
its gains as data showed the economy grew 9.6 percent in the
third quarter and inflation accelerated to its fastest pace in
two years.  The U.S. backs current-account targets to gauge whether
individual trade surpluses or deficits are sustainable, and
Geithner wants the  International Monetary Fund  to take on a
larger role of economic surveillance, U.S. officials said. The
G-20 must help the IMF fulfill its roles in overseeing global
monetary systems and giving countries frank evaluations of their
exchange-rate policies, the Treasury official said.  Canada wants to “address, with our G-20 colleagues,
mechanisms to enhance and timelines to enhance the flexibility
of currencies,” Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  told
reporters yesterday.  Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  said finance chiefs
need to reach a “bargain” to coordinate economic policies,
though real agreement would require a “revolution.”  ‘Grand Bargain’  “What is needed now is a grand bargain among the major
players in the world economy,” King said in an Oct. 19 speech
to business leaders in Dudley, England. “A bargain that
recognizes the benefits of compromise on the real path of
economic adjustment in order to avoid the damaging consequences
of a move towards protectionism.”  “The weapon of choice today is a competitive
devaluation,” Nobel Prize-winning economist  Joseph Stiglitz 
said yesterday in an interview on Bloomberg Radio’s “The Hays
Advantage” with  Kathleen Hays . “Of course, not everybody can
weaken their currency relative to others.”  Geithner delayed a report on foreign-exchange markets last
week, saying the yuan remained undervalued and that China needed
to show continued commitment to allowing the currency to rise
against the dollar over time. The yuan has risen about 2 percent
since a two-year peg against the dollar was scrapped on June 19.  China Central Bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  earlier this
month said his nation needs to avoid the “shock therapy” of
excessive yuan appreciation and “very fast” gains probably
wouldn’t end global economic imbalances. Premier  Wen Jiabao  also
warned of the dangers of a rapid rise, saying yuan gains of 20
percent to 40 percent would exacerbate Chinese unemployment and
cause social upheaval.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Gyeongju, South Korea at
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
 Simon Kennedy  in Gyeongju, South Korea at
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  