-- Gallant Marine Helps Editor Mount Surfboard as Friends Wipe Out
-- B y   N a n c y   M o r a n
-- 2010-10-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/gallant-marine-helps-editor-mount-surfboard-as-friends-wipe-out.html
Lured by the sun, the baby waves and
an eye-candy surfing instructor, I found myself on Santa
Monica’s postcard-perfect beach, its famous Ferris wheel and
roller coaster decorating the background.  “At which point do I attach the cord to my ankle?” I
asked, struggling to control my 8-foot, blue-striped board in
waist-deep water. While the question drew the stink eye of the
high school friends joining me in the lesson, teacher Charlie
Jinkles -- a buff former Marine who served in Iraq -- gamely
submerged himself to attach it for me.  Yes, I like surfing. At least more than I thought I would.  A milestone birthday had arrived, and jumping from a plane,
scaling Everest or learning Swahili were all much lower on my
shortlist of ways to celebrate. But hanging ten in California
didn’t seem like the most rational way to ring in the next four
decades of my life.  After all, I could get sucked out to sea, break my nose
again, or end up on some distant beach looking like a dead eel
in my wet suit.  First it was Maria’s turn. She had lived in San Diego once
and even brought her own wet suit. But it had been a while.
Touching the “rails,” or the edges of the board, while
mounting it did her in and served as a lesson to us all.  “Okay, paddle ... PADDLE!” Charlie shouted at Kristen as
she tried to catch her first wave. Not bad, I thought, as I
plotted how to one-up her and prove just how hip East Coast
girls can be.  $7.22 Billion Market  After encouraging my friends, laughing each time they took
a spill and scanning the water for  leopard sharks , it was my
turn.  It’s a good thing that I grew up on Cape Cod,
Massachusetts, and am quite familiar with the sensation of a
large blast of salt water up the nose while gallons shoot down
the throat. By the fifth attempt I was up on the board. Short
and sweet, but standing on the board nevertheless.  Now I was part of the U.S. “surf/skate” industry, a $7.22
billion market, according to the  Surf Industry Manufacturers
Association ’s 2008 retail report, which lumps the two categories
together because of their shared clientele. That marks an 11
percent increase from 2004 and a 3.5 percent decline from 2006.  What sustains surfing even in tough economic times are the
likes of Charlie and those tanned, briny occupants of the
trailers near Paradise Cove beach farther north in Malibu.  That passion for riding the waves is also what fuels groups
like  Stoked Mentoring , a New York- and Los Angeles-based
nonprofit that matches kids with mentors to learn skateboarding,
snowboarding and surfing. One of its mottos is, “Falling is an
opportunity to get back up.” Our hero Charlie was headed to a
Stoked event the following day.  ‘Smooth Is Fast’  Each time got easier as we kept in mind his board-mounting
mantra of “slow is smooth and smooth is fast.” From there, we
were to paddle ahead of the crest, assume a downward-facing-dog-
like position, and “pop” into a two-legged stance. My best
performance, a solid six seconds standing before flopping, was
criticized for a lack of bend in the knees.  As the surfing lesson went into its second hour, I found
myself relaxing and even enjoying the exploit, alternately
humming The Surfaris’ “Wipe Out” and the theme song to
“Hawaii Five-O.” Charlie’s insistence that each wave provides
a new and different experience from the last was indeed true.  I also discovered that each one offered the gift of a new
way to embarrass oneself upon the inevitable wipeout. There was
the near-miss-of-the-head wipeout; the I-tried-out-for-Cirque-
du-Soleil-but-didn’t-make-it spill; and the yeah-I-meant-to-do-
that variety.  Torn Tendon  Suddenly, a commotion in shallower water got our attention.
Maria, an emergency-room nurse in real life, found herself
examining Kristen’s bent middle finger. She’d suffered a torn
tendon, but persevered through the weekend -- earning “street
cred” with her orthopedic surgeon.  It was a much-needed break from Manhattan, to which I
returned a calmer person with a broader vocabulary. “Gnarly”
became my way of describing something good.  Duke’s  seafood in
Malibu, the finely appointed  Casa del Mar  hotel in Santa Monica,
 Getty Villa , and  Eva Longoria Parker ’s Beso restaurant in West
Hollywood were among my many gnarly experiences.  As was spending quality time with Kristen and Maria, our
own little Hollywood jet set from Harwich High. I learned that
life can begin at 40. All you have to do is go surfing.  Learn to Surf LA  offers individual and group lessons year-
round starting at $120 and $75 per person, including surf
equipment. Reduced rates are available for multiclass packages.
The school can be reached at +1-310-663-2479 or via e-mail at
 info@learntosurfla.com   ( Nancy Moran  is an editor for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Nancy Moran at  nmoran@bloomberg.net  or
.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 