-- Geithner Tells WSJ Major Currencies `Roughly in Alignment' Ahead of G-20
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2010-10-21T02:51:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/geithner-tells-wsj-major-currencies-roughly-in-alignment-ahead-of-g-20.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said the world’s major currencies are “roughly in
alignment,” suggesting there’s no need for the dollar to decline
further, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing an interview.  Geithner emphasized the U.S. isn’t pursuing a deliberate
policy of devaluing its currency, the newspaper reported
before he meets with finance ministers and central
bankers from Group of 20 economies in South Korea.  The dollar rose against most of its counterparts after the
report was published, climbing to 81.61 yen as of 10:38 a.m. in
Tokyo from 81.09 yen in New York yesterday. It touched 80.85
yesterday, the weakest since April 1995, when the post-World War
II low of 79.75 was set. The dollar gained to $1.3941 per euro
from $1.3964. The yen traded at 113.35 per euro from 113.23.  Geithner told the newspaper the U.S. “would like countries
to move toward a set of norms on exchange-rate policy.” The
report cited U.S. officials as saying conditions aren’t ripe for
a global accord on currencies such as the 1985 Plaza Accord to
push the dollar down.  The dollar has dropped since Aug. 27, when Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled the Federal Reserve is prepared to ease
monetary policy. It is trading near parity against its
Australian counterpart for the first time since 1983.  China’s Yuan  In the interview, the Treasury chief divided world
currencies into three groups. In one, he put countries with
currencies “undervalued by any measure,” especially China’s
yuan. He said, though, that if the pace of yuan appreciation
seen since September were sustained, it would help correct the
undervaluation. Other emerging-markets play a role, he said.  In a second group, he put “emerging economies with
flexible exchange rates that intervene or impose taxes to try to
reduce the risks of significant overvaluation, of bubbles and of
inflationary pressures,” the paper reported. The U.S. isn’t
objecting to such efforts, Geithner said.  In the third group, he put “the major currencies, which
are roughly in alignment now,” a suggestion that he sees no
need for the dollar to sink more than it already has against the
euro and yen, according to the newspaper.  Earlier this week in Palo Alto, California, Geithner said
that no country can “devalue its way to prosperity and
competitiveness.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 heath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  