-- Geithner Said He Won't Let Dollar Fall, Mantega Says
-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o   a n d   I u r i   D a n t a s
-- 2010-10-21T19:01:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/geithner-said-he-won-t-let-dollar-fall-pledged-joint-action-mantega-says.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  told Brazil’s Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  yesterday
that the U.S. won’t allow the dollar to weaken, Mantega said.  Mantega said he and Geithner agreed to act jointly with the
Group of 20 nations to find a solution for the dollar’s
depreciation. Geithner also said in a telephone conversation
that the impact of Federal Reserve policies is being
“overestimated,” Mantega told reporters in Brasilia today.  “He said he doesn’t intend to allow a devaluation of the
dollar,” Mantega said. “He assured me that the policy is not
to weaken the dollar, but on the contrary, to strengthen it.  “I then asked him about the Fed’s policy and he said that
this policy’s impact is being overestimated,” Mantega said.  Brazil’s finance minister said he told Geithner that a firm
stance by the U.S. against further weakening in the dollar would
“create conditions to open a negotiation” with other countries
seeking to reduce volatility in their currencies, and may help
reduce pressure on China to strengthen the yuan.  “Otherwise it’s hard, to weaken the dollar and to want a
revaluation of the yuan,” Mantega said.  G-20 policy makers are convening in South Korea amid
concern countries are pursuing weaker exchange rates as a route
to stronger economic growth, either by selling their own
currencies or by discussing monetary easing, as the U.S. and
U.K. have done. The moves risk a protectionist backlash that
curbs global growth, with emerging markets including Brazil and
South Korea already stiffening capital controls to stem the rise
of their currencies.  Dollar Flows  Massive amounts of dollars are flowing into emerging
markets in search of higher returns, leading to what Mantega has
called a “currency war.” Brazil on Oct. 18 raised to 6 percent
from 4 percent a tax on some foreign investments and yesterday
closed a tax loophole in the country’s derivatives market in a
bid to stem the inflow of dollars.  Geithner said Oct. 18 that “no country can devalue its way
to prosperity” and the U.S. will “work very hard to make sure
that we preserve confidence in a strong dollar.”  The Brazilian real has gained 36 percent against the dollar
since the end of 2008, the third-strongest performance among the
16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The real fell 1.2
percent today to 1.6982 per dollar at 1:40 p.m. New York time.  Finance chiefs from the Group of 20 are planning to say
members will refrain from “competitive undervaluation” of
their currencies in a bid to soothe trade tensions, an official
from a G-20 country said today, citing a draft statement and
speaking on condition of anonymity.  ‘Satisfactory’ Growth  Finance ministers and central bankers will say after talks
conclude in Gyeongju, South Korea, on Oct. 23 that they want a
“more market-determined exchange rate system that minimizes
adverse effects of excess volatility and disorderly movements in
exchange rates,” the official said.  Brazil’s gross domestic product may grow 7.5 percent this
year, up from a previous estimate of 7 percent, the Finance
Ministry said in a report published on its website today. The
ministry also raised its forecast for average growth between
2010 and 2014 to 5.9 percent, from 5.7 percent.  Consumer prices may rise 5.1 percent this year, the
ministry said, raising its July forecast of 5 percent.  Brazil’s economy is growing at a “quite satisfactory”
level after slowing in the second quarter, Mantega said.  “The use of installed capacity fell and inventories
rose,” Mantega said. “So there’s no inflationary pressure from
the demand point of view.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Arnaldo Galvao  in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net 
 Iuri Dantas  in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  