-- GM, EarthRenew, Cello Energy, Lehman: Bankruptcy
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2010-10-21T12:34:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/general-motors-earthrenew-cello-energy-lehman-bankruptcy.html
General Motors Corp.’s bankruptcy
estate seeks approval of a settlement that would set aside $773
million of U.S. money to resolve environmental claims by the
federal government and 14 states.  A mixture of cash and assets, put into trusts, would clean
up and administer 89 properties, 59 of which are known to be
contaminated, Gary Grindler, acting deputy attorney general,
said in a statement. A 30-day period to gather public comment
will precede a request for bankruptcy court approval.  More than half the money would go for sites in  New York  and  Michigan , Grindler said.  The  St. Regis Mohawk Tribe , the  U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency  and the states are part of the settlement. The
tribe has yet to accept the proposal. A public hearing was set
to take place last night.  The accord paves the way for the carmakers’ unwanted
business to wind down in bankruptcy on the eve of a hearing
scheduled for today at which the Old GM estate will seek court
approval of terms of its liquidation.  When GM filed for bankruptcy in June 2009, it sold
attractive assets to a newly formed company and left the 89
properties in the settlement being considered yesterday under
bankruptcy protection.  The U.S. Treasury and  Canada ’s export credit agency had
lent the bankrupt estate $1.175 billion to wind down the
bankrupt properties. The EPA later filed claims in the case for
environmental cleanup costs, as did the states.  Money for the settlement will come from past government
loans to the automaker, said Tim Yost, a spokesman for the
estate.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Robert Gerber in New York in May gave
the company a four-month extension of time in Chapter 11 to
resolve environmental and asbestos liabilities.  Two units of the carmaker formed to hold environmental
liabilities owed about $1.2 billion in cleanup costs, according
to court papers. The amount set aside by Old GM is the largest
of recent environmental settlements.  Chrysler Corp. and Lyondell Chemical Co. resolved billions
in environmental claims, according to court papers.  Old GM’s settlement includes $641 million in cash and non-
cash assets worth $120 million. It has paid $11.5 million to
clean properties during its bankruptcy.  The so-called  Massena site  in Saint Lawrence County will
receive $120.8 million. The U.S. alleged that GM’s aluminum die-
casting plant, operating there from 1959 to 2009, polluted the
property with polychlorinated biphenyls, or PCBs.  The St. Regis Mohawk Tribe has lands affected by
contamination from the Massena property.  The settlement doesn’t affect U.S. claims against Old GM
for past costs related to natural-resources damages at the
properties being placed in the trust, according to Grindler’s
statement.  The case is In re Motors Liquidation Co., 09-50026,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  New Filings  EarthRenew Corp. Files for Protection From U.S. Creditors  EarthRenew Management General Partner Ltd. , the Canadian
company providing corporate finance services to rural based
businesses, filed for protection from U.S. creditors under
Chapter 15 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code yesterday in Wilmington,  Delaware , according to court files.  The debtor listed assets of less than $50,000 and
liabilities of $1 million to $10 million, according to the
bankruptcy petition.  Affiliates of Calgary, Alberta-based EarthRenew also filed
and the companies have requested joint administration of the
cases, court papers revealed. A court filing showed that the
bankrupt affiliates include EarthRenew IP Holdings LLC,
EarthRenew Corp., EarthRenew Inc., EarthRenew Management LP,
EarthRenew Operational Employee LP, and EarthRenew Strathmore
General Partner Ltd.  The case is In re EarthRenew Corp., 10-br-13366, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Cello Energy Files For Bankruptcy Following Civil Judgment  Cello Energy LLC has filed for protection under Chapter 11
of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, according to court papers.  Bay Minette , Alabama-based Cello Energy filed its petition
in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Mobile, declaring less than
$50,000 in assets and liabilities of $10 million to $50 million,
according to court papers. The largest of the unsecured
creditors is Parsons & Whittemore Enterprises Corp., which has a
claim of $10.4 million, court files.  Other unsecured debts include $640,000 owed to the Internal
Revenue Service and $1 million owed to Biofuels Operating Co.,
according to court papers.  Rye, New York-based Parsons & Whittemore Enterprises
obtained a certificate of judgment Sept. 29 in the U.S. District
Court in Mobile for $10.4 million against Cello Energy in a
lawsuit it brought against the energy company in 2007, according
to court papers in that case. Parsons & Whitmore Enterprises
sued Cello Energy over an investment it made “for the exclusive
right to participate” with Cello Energy “in the commercial
development of technology that allows the production of
synthetic fuels from cellulosic and polymer-based material,”
according to the complaint.  A meeting of creditors in the bankruptcy case is scheduled
for Nov. 23 at the bankruptcy courthouse in Mobile.  The bankruptcy case is In re Cello Energy LLC, 10-04877,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of Alabama (Mobile).  The civil case is Parsons & Whittemore Enterprises Corp. v.
Cello Energy LLC, 07-00743, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of Alabama (Mobile).  Petra Offshore Fund, REIT Unit File for Bankruptcy in New York  Petra Offshore Fund LP, along with its Petra Fund REIT
unit, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy court protection in New
York.  Petra Fund REIT, an investor in commercial real estate-
backed loans, and the parent company listed assets of $1 million
to $10 million and liabilities of $100 million to $500 million
in filings yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan.  The Chapter 11 filing follows a judgment one of the fund’s
creditors, KBS Preferred Holding I LLC, won against Petra to
collect on its debt, according to an affidavit filed with the
bankruptcy petition.  Petra said it has a restructuring agreement with a secured
creditor that requires it to file for bankruptcy.  The case is In re Petra Fund REIT Corp., 10-15500, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan.)  Antietam, Affiliate of SageCrest, Seeks Bankruptcy  Antietam Funding LLC, a Connecticut-based holder of life
insurance assets, sought bankruptcy protection yesterday,
listing as much as $500 million in debt.  Antietam, a subsidiary of hedge fund SageCrest II LLC that
filed for bankruptcy in 2008, seeks to have its Chapter 11
jointly administered with that of SageCrest. It listed as much
as $100 million in assets in its filing in Bridgeport,  Connecticut .  Antietam’s primary asset is a portfolio of life insurance
investments, according to court documents.  “Their sole business is to lend monies to finance payments
of insurance premiums and, in the event the borrowers fail to
repay the loans, to foreclose on and own the underlying
policies,” lawyers for Antietam wrote.  SageCrest Finance LLC, SageCrest Holdings Ltd. and
SageCrest Dixon Inc. are also jointly administered with the
bankruptcy of  SageCrest II. The fund, managed by Windmill
Management LLC, filed for bankruptcy Aug. 17, 2008.  SageCrest and its affiliates provided secured loans to
small and midsized business, specializing in life-insurance
products, real estate finance and auto finance.  The bankruptcy case is Antietam Funding LLC, 10-52523,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Connecticut (Bridgeport). The
consolidated case for SageCrest is 08-50754, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Connecticut (Bridgeport).  Updates  Ambac to Withdraw $6 Billion in Claims Against Lehman    Ambac Financial Group Inc . will withdraw more than $6
billion in claims against bankrupt Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
over derivatives transactions.  The agreement was approved yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy
Court in Manhattan.  The claims, filed in September 2009, were based on Lehman’s
“purported breach of obligations” related to residential
mortgage-backed securities deals with Ambac, Lehman said in an
Oct. 5 filing. Under terms of the settlement, Lehman will
release the insurer from demands for unspecified payments and
from liabilities under derivatives transactions insured by
Ambac, New York-based Lehman said.  Ambac, the second-largest bond insurer before the onset of
the credit crisis, started “rehabilitation proceedings” in
March in a Wisconsin court that bar Lehman from suing the
company over the claims or insured derivatives deals, according
to the filing.  The case is In re  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc ., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Lehman Can Halt Lawsuits Filed to Recover Payments  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., the investment bank in
bankruptcy, can halt dozens of lawsuits it filed against banks
and investors to recover payments as part of its effort to
recover money for creditors.  Judge James Peck of the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan
approved Lehman’s request to stay the lawsuits while it
negotiates with defendants, a group that includes  Bank of
America Corp . and Deutsche Bank AG as trustees for investors.  Lehman filed about 50 lawsuits, known as avoidance actions,
to meet a statute of limitations for bringing the complaints and
preserve its claims, according to court papers. It has
agreements that could lead to lawsuits against additional
defendants. More than 1,000 parties are potentially involved,  Harvey Miller , Lehman’s bankruptcy attorney told Peck at
yesterday’s hearing.  Lehman won approval to halt the lawsuits so it can avoid
the costs of litigation. The stay applies to cases that have
been filed and future cases, according to court papers. Several
of the defendants named in the lawsuits filed objections, and
Peck imposed a nine-month period for the stay.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Tronox Wins Court Approval of $425 Million Exit Loan    Tronox Inc ., the bankrupt chemical maker, won court
approval of a $425 million loan to replace a prior loan for the
same amount, funding its exit from bankruptcy.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Allan Gropper approved the loan
agreement yesterday on an interim basis at a hearing in New
York. The new loan, syndicated by Goldman Sachs Lending Partners
LLC, will save Tronox about $1.45 million a month in interest
expense, the company said in court documents.  The loan replaces a $425 million loan approved in December
2009, which funded operations in bankruptcy. The need for more
funding “prompted Tronox to refinance both tranches of the
Existing Facility (to allow the entire $425 million facility to
roll into exit financing) in addition to pursuing a revolving
credit facility,” lawyers for the company wrote.  The loan will default if a final order approving it isn’t
entered by Nov. 17, the date on which Tronox plans to seek final
court approval of its Chapter 11 plan, according to court
papers.  Tronox will also seek court approval of a $125 million
revolving credit facility and has an agreement with Goldman
Sachs Lending Partners on an inter-creditor agreement that
governs the loan, according to court documents.  Oklahoma City-based Tronox filed an outline of a
reorganization plan on Sept. 1 that set aside $320 million to
cover what it estimates are $1.4 billion to $5 billion in
environmental claims.  The bankruptcy case is Tronox Inc., 09-10156, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  TerreStar Wins Interim Approval for EchoStar Loan  TerreStar Networks Inc., a satellite mobile-communications
company, won court approval to begin borrowing from  EchoStar
Corp ., the telecommunications company financing TerreStar’s
bankruptcy restructuring.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Sean Lane in Manhattan yesterday
approved an order allowing TerreStar, a unit of  TerreStar Corp .,
to borrow as much as $18 million of a $75 million loan from
EchoStar. TerreStar will return to court in November for
permission to borrow the remainder.  TerreStar, based in Reston, Virginia, was in court after
filing for bankruptcy Oct. 19 to reduce its $1.6 billion debt.
The company provides mobile satellite coverage throughout the
U.S. and Canada in areas where traditional mobile networks are
unavailable, according to court papers.  EchoStar, a television equipment and satellite services
company, and New York hedge fund Harbinger Capital Partners are  TerreStar Corp .’s largest shareholders, according to Bloomberg
data.  EchoStar, based in Englewood, Colorado, has agreed to
support a restructuring plan in which it and other secured
noteholders would swap their debt for equity, according to court
papers. EchoStar would also backstop $100 million of a $125
million rights offering under the plan.  The case is In re TerreStar Networks Inc., 10-15446, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Briefly Noted  NYC OTB to Remain Open Under Debt-Forgiveness Plan  New York City  Off-Track Betting Corp. , the bankrupt
operator of 68 wagering locations across the city, will remain
open after reaching a debt-forgiveness agreement with unsecured
creditors. About $95 million owed by OTB, which in March was
ruled eligible for Chapter 9 reorganization, will be resolved,
according to a statement yesterday by New York Governor David Paterson. The agreement is the “cornerstone” of OTB’s plan to
emerge from bankruptcy that will be filed with the court,
according to the release. Creditors including Yonkers Racing
Corp. and New York Racing Association will forgive about $65
million in exchange for some of OTB’s wagering operations and
changes to state racing laws to help video-lottery terminal
operators generate revenue.  The case is In re New York City Off-Track Betting Corp.,
09-17121, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Tribune Board May Have Shelved Decision on Michaels, WSJ Says  Tribune Co.’s board of directors may have shelved a
decision on the future of Chief Executive Officer Randy Michaels, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing people
familiar with the situation. While the board was to have
discussed his position Oct. 19, an unidentified spokesman said
the directors were concentrating on the company’s reorganization
plan, to be filed on Oct. 22. Michaels told local reporters in  Chicago  he was still working, the newspaper said.  Separately, Tribune Co. unsecured investors are to ask a
judge to rule whether they have the right to sue real estate
billionaire Sam Zell, who led a buyout of the company a year
before it filed for bankruptcy in December 2008, the New York
Post reported, without saying where it obtained the information.  Tribune filed for bankruptcy in December 2008, a year after
a buyout led by real estate billionaire Sam Zell.  For more Bloomberg reporting about Tribune Co., click here
and click here.  Quote of the Day  “To some degree, banks have been flying blind in terms of
pricing this type of loan exposure,” Andrew Davison, senior
vice- president for project finance at Moody’s Investors Service
said yesterday, commenting on project finance loans.  Davison is the author of a report published this week on
the use of debt to finance infrastructure development.  For more on loan pricing and risk of default, click here.  Downgrades/Other Ratings Actions  H&R Block Placed on Credit Watch; Affiliate Downgraded    H&R Block Inc .’s ratings, including its BBB/A-2
counterparty ratings, were placed on credit watch “with
negative implications” yesterday by  Standard & Poor’s  Ratings
Services, according to a statement by the ratings company.  The rating action also applies to the counterparty credit
ratings of H&R Block Inc.’s unit Block Financial LLC, S&P said
in the statement.  The negative CreditWatch reflects the “heightened risk”
that H&R Block Inc. may not be able to offer refund anticipation
loans, or RALs, during its fiscal 2011 tax season.  Separately, H&R Financial LLC’s long-term rating was
downgraded to Baa2 from Baa1 and the senior unsecured notes to
Baa2 from Baa1, by Moody’s Investors Service, according to a
statement yesterday by the ratings company.  The “rating outlook is negative,” Moody’s said in the
statement.  The downgrade “reflects declining tax return volumes over
the last two years, the risk of further market share losses in
the bricks and mortar segment to digital products over the
medium term,” as well as and regulatory and business risks,
Moody’s said in the statement.  For more about Moody’s ratings action, click here.  Eli Lilly’s A1 rating Placed on Review by Moody’s  Eli Lilly’s A1 long-term rating was placed on review for
possible downgrade by Moody’s Investors Service, according to a
statement by the ratings company yesterday, adding that the
“outlook is negative.”  “Approximately $6.7 billion of rated debt” is affected,
according to the statement.  Moody’s affirmed Eli Lilly’s prime-1 short-term rating,
reflecting its strong liquidity profile, Moody’s said in the
statement.  The rating actions follow the recent Federal Drug
Administration request for a new clinical trial for diabetes
drug Bydureon, according to the statement. The “earliest date
of U.S. approval now appears to be mid-2012,” according to
Moody’s statement. The “Bydureon delay follows several other
setbacks” for Eli Lilly related to “pipeline progress and
patent challenges,” stated Michael Levesque, Moody’s Senior
Vice President.  For more, click here.  American National Insurance and Units Downgraded by S&P    American National Insurance Co . yesterday saw its
counterparty credit and financial strength ratings and those of
certain operating units downgraded by Standard & Poor’s Ratings
Services to A+ from AA-, according to a statement by S&P.  The units affected by the ratings action are American
National Insurance Co. of  Texas , American National Property &
Casualty Co., and American National General Insurance, according
to the statement.  “The downgrade primarily reflects the operating
performance” of American National Insurance Co. group’s
property and casualty business, “which has been volatile and
has weakened as a result of sustained operating losses over the
past few years, mainly because of significant catastrophe
losses,” Standard & Poor’s credit analyst David Zuber said in
the statement.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story: Carla Main in Jersey
City,  New Jersey  at   cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 