-- General Growth Plan Objections Resolved as Bankruptcy Exit Set for Nov. 8
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2010-10-21T16:03:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/general-growth-bankruptcy-plan-objections-have-been-resolved-lawyer-says.html
The last objections to  General
Growth Properties Inc. ’s restructuring plan have been resolved,
a lawyer for the company said in U.S. bankruptcy court in
Manhattan. The plan still requires a judge’s approval.  The announcement by lawyer  Marcia Goldstein  in today comes
18 months after Chicago-based General Growth filed the biggest
real estate bankruptcy in U.S. history, weighed down by a
$27 billion debt load it was unable to refinance because of the
financial crisis and the collapse of the commercial mortgage-
backed securities market.  The plan will pump billions of dollars of new capital into
the company and split off a group of housing and other
properties into a new company named after Howard Hughes.
Goldstein told U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Allan Gropper  that the
company hopes to exit bankruptcy by Nov. 8.  General Growth first focused on restructuring about
$15 billion in mortgage debt tied to about 140 properties, an
effort it completed earlier this year. It then turned to its
corporate-level debt and became the subject of a takeover battle
between rival  Simon Property Group Inc.  and an investor group.  Those investors -- Brookfield Asset Management Inc.,
Fairholme Capital Management LLC and Pershing Square Capital
Management LP -- prevailed, committing more than $8 billion to
take the mall owner out of bankruptcy.  The bankruptcy plan provides $7 billion of new  capital  for
General Growth, Goldstein said. It pays creditors in full and
provides a recovery for shareholders, which is rare for a
bankruptcy reorganization. Shareholders are generally the last
in line to get paid when a company files for bankruptcy and are
typically wiped out.  59-Cent Shares  General Growth rose 4 cents to $17.40 at 11:48 a.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite  trading , compared with a closing
price of 59 cents on April 16, 2009, the day it filed for
bankruptcy.  Shareholders will receive new General Growth stock and
stock in the spinoff company, Howard Hughes Corp., which will
own a group of money-losing assets, including master-planned
communities and mixed-used projects. With the spinoff, General
Growth will concentrate on its retail business, owning or
managing more than 180 shopping malls in 43 states, according to
court papers.  The case is In re General Growth Properties Inc., 09-11977,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 