-- General Growth Plan Approval Resolves Biggest U.S. Real Estate Bankruptcy
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2010-10-21T20:41:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/general-growth-plan-approval-resolves-biggest-u-s-real-estate-bankruptcy.html
General Growth Properties Inc. , the
second-largest mall owner in the U.S., won court approval of the
last stage of its restructuring, a year and a half after filing
the biggest real estate bankruptcy in U.S. history.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Allan Gropper  in Manhattan signed off
today on a plan that will pump billions of dollars of new
capital into the company and split off a group of housing and
other properties into a new company named after  Howard Hughes .  Gropper’s ruling comes 18 months after Chicago-based
General Growth filed for bankruptcy, weighed down by a $27
billion debt load it was unable to refinance because of the
financial crisis and the collapse of the commercial mortgage-
backed securities market.  As a result of the reorganization, General Growth is a
company with “terrific assets in the hands of terrific
sponsors,”  Tom Nolan , the company’s president and chief
operating officer, said in an interview.  “We’re very pleased. This has been a very, very
successful” restructuring, he said.  General Growth hopes to exit bankruptcy by Nov. 8,  Marcia Goldstein , a lawyer for General Growth, told the judge.  After filing for bankruptcy in April 2009, General Growth
first focused on restructuring about $15 billion in mortgage
debt tied to about 140 properties, an effort it completed
earlier this year. It then turned to its corporate-level debt
and became the subject of a takeover battle between rival  Simon
Property Group Inc.  and an investor group.  Investors Prevail  Those investors -- Brookfield Asset Management Inc.,
Fairholme Capital Management LLC and Pershing Square Capital
Management LP -- prevailed, committing more than $8 billion to
take the mall owner out of bankruptcy.  The bankruptcy plan provides $7 billion of new  capital  for
General Growth and results in “a substantial deleveraging” of
the company, Goldstein said. About $1.6 billion in so-called
Rouse bonds will be reinstated, Nolan said.  The plan provides a full recovery for creditors and a
recovery for shareholders, which is rare in a bankruptcy
reorganization. Shareholders are generally the last in line to
get paid when a company files for bankruptcy and are typically
wiped out.  Capital Markets  John Jerome , the lawyer for the bankruptcy committee
representing General Growth shareholders, told Gropper at the
hearing that the bankruptcy case gave the company time to
realize the value of its assets while the capital markets
recovered.  “It’s only in Chapter 11 where this could have happened.
I’m very pleased your honor that we end this proceeding in
Chapter 11 on the note that this is the way Chapter 11 should
work,” he said.  General Growth fell 43 cents, or 2.5 percent, to $16.93 in
New York Stock Exchange composite  trading . Its closing price was
59 cents on April 16, 2009, the day it filed for bankruptcy.  Shareholders will receive new General Growth stock and
stock in the spinoff company, Howard Hughes Corp., which will
own a group of money-losing assets, including master-planned
communities and mixed-used projects. With the spinoff, General
Growth will concentrate on its retail business, owning or
managing more than 180 shopping malls in 43 states, according to
court papers.  The case is In re General Growth Properties Inc., 09-11977,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 