-- German Business Confidence May Decline in October as Economic Growth Slows
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 2010-10-21T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/german-business-confidence-may-decline-in-october-as-economic-growth-slows.html
German  business confidence  probably
eased from a three-year high in October as economic growth
slowed from the fastest pace in two decades.  The  Ifo institute  will say its  business climate index ,
based on a survey of 7,000 executives, fell to 106.5 from 106.8
in September, which was the highest since June 2007, according
to the median of 38 forecasts in Bloomberg News  survey . Ifo
releases the report at 10 a.m. in Munich today.  Germany’s economy is losing some momentum after expanding
2.2 percent in the second quarter, driven by booming exports.
While foreign demand for German goods may wane as the global
recovery stutters, falling unemployment is boosting consumer
confidence and spending at home. The government yesterday more
than doubled its 2010 growth forecast to 3.4 percent.  “The Ifo index is still at a relatively high level and a
decrease wouldn’t signal the end of the recovery,” said  Juergen Michels , chief euro-area economist at Citigroup Inc. in London.
“Economic growth will remain robust in coming quarters, with
domestic demand instead of exports increasingly driving the
upswing.”  Ifo’s measure of executives’ expectations will decline to
102.9 from 103.9, the survey of economists shows. The gauge of
the current situation will probably rise to 110 from 109.7. That
would be the highest since May 2008.  Consumer Confidence  German  factory orders  increased almost four times as much
as economists forecast in August and consumer confidence climbed
to a three-year high in October on higher income expectations.
 BASF SE , the world’s biggest chemical maker, this week raised
its profit goal for 2010 after third-quarter earnings surged.  Germany’s benchmark  DAX stock index  has gained more than 10
percent this year, compared with a decline of 3 percent in the
Euro Stoxx 50 gauge of euro-area equities. At the same time,
 investor  confidence fell to a 21-month low this month.  Europe’s services and manufacturing industries expanded at
the weakest pace in a year in October, suggesting a global
slowdown is starting to undermine the region’s economies,
Germany’s biggest export market. Belt-tightening across the 16-
nation euro area, as governments try to rein in budget deficits,
may also crimp demand.  The euro has climbed 17 percent against the dollar since
June 7, making German exports more expensive outside the
currency bloc. Group of 20 finance chiefs meet in Gyeongju,
South Korea, today amid concern some countries are pursuing
weaker exchange rates to bolster their economies.  German economic growth slowed in the third quarter from the
second, the Finance Ministry said yesterday.  “The economy is still booming and what you see now is a
tail-off in the expectation that it’s going to get even
better,” said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Group NV in
Brussels. “Company order books are full and that will keep the
economy going until the end of next year, just not at the same
pace.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christian Vits  in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  