-- Yankees Avoid Postseason Elimination, Phillies Move to Brink With Loss
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r   a n d   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-10-21T06:32:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/giants-beat-phillies-yankees-win-to-avoid-elimination-in-mlb-playoffs.html
It’s “win or go home” for the New
York Yankees and the Philadelphia Phillies, the past two World
Series winners, who are each one loss away from postseason
elimination.  The Yankees won yesterday to keep alive their quest for
back-to-back World Series titles. The Phillies, Major League
Baseball’s 2008 champion, must avoid defeat today at the San
Francisco Giants after falling behind 3-1 in the National League
Championship Series.  Robinson Cano  and  Nick Swisher  hit back-to-back home runs
as the Yankees won 7-2 against the Texas Rangers yesterday,
sending the American League Championship Series back to
Arlington, Texas, with the Rangers leading the series 3-2.  “You either win or go home,” Cano said in a news
conference. “We know what it feels like to go to the World
Series and win a championship. We want to go back again.”  Juan Uribe’s  sacrifice fly in the ninth inning last night
gave the Giants a 6-5 win over the Phillies.  “Last year, I was at home on the beach,” said  Pablo Sandoval , who had a two-run double for the Giants. “Coming
through, being in the postseason, helping my team -- it’s one of
those dreams when you’re a little kid.”  In New York, Cano and Swisher hit solo home runs to start
the third inning, staking pitcher  CC Sabathia  to a 5-0 lead.
 Curtis Granderson  added a solo home run and Sabathia allowed two
runs over six innings as the home team ended a three-game losing
streak.  Hughes vs. Lewis  Game 6 is tomorrow night, with  Phil Hughes  starting for the
Yankees against the Rangers’  Colby Lewis . A decisive seventh
game, if necessary, would be Oct. 23 in Texas.  “It wasn’t time for us to end this thing,” Swisher said.
“It’s still 3-2, but we feel pretty good. I’m just really
looking forward to seeing what’s going to happen in Texas.”  Cano hit his fourth home run of the series, tying him with
nine others for the most in a league championship series. He hit
third in the Yankee lineup in place of  Mark Teixeira , who will
miss the rest of the postseason after straining his right
hamstring in Game 4.  “When it’s win or go home, you’ve got as much energy as
you need,” Cano said during a news conference.  The Yankees’ bullpen, which was tagged for 11 runs over
five innings the previous two games, sealed the win as  Kerry Wood  tossed two scoreless innings and  Mariano Rivera  retired the
Rangers in the ninth.  First Road Loss  Texas lost for the first time in six road games this
postseason and was denied, at least temporarily, its first trip
to the World Series in franchise history.  “Those guys over there are the champs,” Texas manager  Ron Washington  said of the Yankees. “We didn’t expect them to lay
down.”  The Phillies, who are the two-time defending NL champions
and won the 2008 World Series title, also are one loss from
going home.  “If we like to play with our backs against the wall, it’s
there now,” Phillies manager  Charlie Manuel  said. “We’re
standing right there.”  Aubrey Huff  singled with one out in the Giants’ ninth and
 Buster Posey  singled into the right-field corner for his fourth
hit of the game. Uribe, who entered the game in the ninth inning,
then lofted a ball to left field off Game 2 winner  Roy Oswalt  to
score Huff with the winning run.  Posey joined Freddy Lindstrom, who had four hits for the
New York Giants in the 1924 World Series, as the only rookies in
franchise history with four hits in a postseason game. He also
drove in two runs.  ‘Adrenaline’  “This is exciting. You got adrenaline,” Posey said in a
television interview. “If you’re tired of this, there’s
something wrong with you.”  The Phillies’  Roy Halladay  and the Giants’  Tim Lincecum 
renew their pitching duel tonight in Game 5 in San Francisco, a
repeat of the Game 1 matchup won 4-3 by Lincecum. Halladay
pitched a no-hitter in the NL Division Series and Lincecum is
the two-time reigning Cy Young Award winner as the best pitcher
in the National League.  The Giants opened the scoring in the first inning on a
single by  Freddy Sanchez , two wild pitches by Phillies starter
 Joe Blanton  and Posey’s run-scoring single.  In the third, Huff singled with two outs and chugged around
the bases to score on a double by Posey that just evaded left-
fielder  Ben Francisco .  The Phillies broke a 14-inning scoreless streak with four
runs in the fifth to take a 4-2 lead. The runs were the first
allowed at home by Giants’ starting pitchers this postseason,
breaking a streak of 27 scoreless innings covering four games
against Atlanta and Philadelphia.  Phillies’ Big Inning  With runners on second and third and one out,  Shane Victorino  singled up the middle to score a run. The runner from
second,  Carlos Ruiz , was thrown out at home plate trying to
score.  Chase Utley  then singled to knock out Giants starter
 Madison Bumgarner , and  Placido Polanco  greeted reliever  Santiago Casilla  with a two-run double to left-center. The fourth run
scored on a wild pitch.  The Giants responded with a run in their half of the fifth
on a run-scoring single by Huff. In the sixth,  Pat Burrell  led
off with a walk off reliever  Chad Durbin  and  Cody Ross  doubled
down the left-field line before Sandoval doubled to left-center
to score two runs.  Philadelphia tied the game 5-5 in the eighth on a leadoff
double by  Ryan Howard  and  Jayson Werth’s  double into the left-
field corner off reliever  Sergio Romo .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rob Gloster  at AT&T Park in San Francisco at 
1397 or  rgloster@bloomberg.net ;
 Erik Matuszewski  at Yankee Stadium in New York at 
   matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  