-- Glaxo Profit Shows Little Change After Avandia Costs
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2010-10-21T16:02:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/glaxo-profit-little-changed-after-costs-related-to-avandia-diabetes-drug.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc , the U.K.’s
largest drugmaker, said third-quarter profit showed little
change, held back by costs tied to the Avandia diabetes
treatment and generic competition to its Valtrex medicine.  Earnings excluding restructuring costs were 1.44 billion
pounds ($2.3 billion), or 28.2 pence a share, London-based Glaxo
said in a statement today. That beat the average estimate of
27.3 pence from 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The U.K. drugmaker said Sept. 23 it would stop promoting
Avandia worldwide after regulators said the treatment will be
withdrawn from the market in Europe and sales will be limited in
the U.S. because of an increased risk of heart attacks. Glaxo
received a subpoena from the U.S. Justice Department related to
the development and marketing of Avandia, the company said.  “Avandia, Valtrex and pandemic sales declines weighed on
Glaxo’s earnings in the quarter,”  Gbola Amusa , an analyst at
UBS AG in London who has a “buy” recommendation on the stock,
said in a telephone interview. “Once these year-over-year
pressures subside, we expect GSK to become a growth stock.”  Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Witty  has said that because
the worst of Glaxo’s patent expirations are over, the drugmaker
can turn its focus to expansion in emerging markets and consumer
products while spurring innovation in its own labs. Total sales
in the quarter were 6.81 billion pounds.  Shares Fall  Glaxo shares fell 17 pence, or 1.3 percent, to 1,275 pence
as of 4:35 p.m. London time. The stock has fallen 3.4 percent
this year, compared with a 3.5 percent gain in the 18-member
 Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index .  Health-care reform in the U.S. and government austerity
measures in Europe shaved about 2 percent from revenue, the
company said.  “Despite the challenging environment we face, I remain
confident that GSK’s outlook continues to improve,” Witty said
in the statement. The drugmaker is “emerging back into
daylight” and is showing “tremendous resilience,” he told
reporters on a conference call today.  Glaxo’s earnings exclude costs related to some acquisitions
and expenses from a restructuring program, which Witty expanded
in February. Including those items, net income was 1.29 billion
pounds, compared with 1.34 billion pounds a year earlier. The
company raised its quarterly  dividend  7 percent, to 16 pence a
share, the 15th consecutive increase.  Avandia Slump  Sales  of Avandia, once the world’s best-selling diabetes
drug, sank 65 percent to 70 million pounds. Avandia revenue will
be “minimal” after this year, Glaxo said.  Glaxo  booked costs
of 147 million pounds linked to Avandia last quarter.  Glaxo said a number of state attorneys general have issued
demands for information about Avandia in addition to the U.S.
Justice Department request, the company said.  “These enquiries are at an early stage, and GSK is
cooperating with these offices,” Glaxo said in today’s
statement. Lawsuits are pending in U.S. and state courts, and
new cases continue to be filed, the company said. Glaxo said it
isn’t yet able to determine whether the new cases will require
additional legal provisions.  In the U.S., drug revenue declined 8 percent to 1.95
billion pounds in the quarter, hurt by sales of generic copies
of Glaxo’s Valtrex treatment for genital herpes and price
pressures resulting from the overhaul of the U.S. health-care
system.  Relenza Sales  Sales of the Relenza flu drug plunged 91 percent as the
company had benefited from “significant government orders” in
the year-earlier quarter, Glaxo said. The company this year has
shipped 25 million doses of seasonal flu vaccine to the U.S.,
compared with 17.5 million doses a year earlier, and expects to
ship more in the fourth quarter than it did a year earlier,
Witty said.  “Everybody’s sensitivity about flu is higher,” Witty told
analysts on a conference call today. “We have been able to get
our production schedule accelerated so we, particularly for the
U.S., were able to get significant volumes earlier in the
season. And one of the keys in the U.S. is to be there early.”  Witty told reporters during that call that he will continue
sticking to “bolt-on” acquisitions to expand in vaccines,
consumer health and emerging markets.  Glaxo is “not addicted” to acquisitions and isn’t keen on
“splashing out billions of dollars” to buy a large drugmaker
“no matter what happens in the market,” Witty said. Most large
deals “are value-destroying,” he said, adding that he is more
interested in deals ranging from “a few hundred millions” to
“mid-single digit billions.”  Sanofi-Aventis SA , France’s largest pharmaceutical company,
made an $18.5 billion hostile offer on Oct. 4 for  Genzyme Corp .,
the world’s largest maker of medicines for rare genetic
disorders. Pfizer Inc., the world’s biggest drugmaker, said Oct.
12 that it would buy  King Pharmaceuticals Inc . for $3.6 billion
to expand its share of the $22 billion market for painkillers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Albertina Torsoli  in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  