-- Goldman Sachs Said to Mull Repaying Buffett's $5 Billion Stake
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2010-10-21T13:48:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/goldman-sachs-said-to-mull-repaying-buffett-s-5-billion-stake.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  is
considering repaying the $5 billion investment it received two
years ago from  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc., said a
person familiar with the company’s plans.  A repayment isn’t likely to happen imminently because the
bank requires approval from the Federal Reserve, said the
person, who declined to be identified because the deliberations
aren’t public. The person wouldn’t say whether Goldman Sachs is
already seeking the Fed’s consent. The Wall Street Journal
reported earlier today on the possible repayment.  Goldman Sachs turned to Buffett, the second-richest
American and a cult figure in the investing world, to shore up
the investment bank’s capital and restore market confidence
after  its stock  tumbled and borrowing costs spiked following the
Sept. 15, 2008, collapse of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc . News
of Berkshire’s investment also helped Goldman Sachs raise $5.75
billion from a stock offering a day later.  Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein , 56, repeatedly
invoked the deal with Buffett, announced on Sept. 23, 2008, as
evidence that Goldman Sachs wasn’t relying on government funds
received from the U.S. Treasury a few weeks later. And Buffett,
80, praised Blankfein’s leadership after Goldman Sachs was sued
for fraud by the Securities and Exchange Commission in April.
The case was settled in July for $550 million.  $500 Million Cost  Goldman Sachs, the most  profitable  securities firm in Wall
Street history, would like to retire the preferred shares it
sold to Buffett at the height of the financial crisis and
replace them with a cheaper form of capital, the person said.
Refunding Berkshire would also free Goldman Sachs’s top
executives from a requirement that they retain 90 percent of the
stock they own in the New York-based company.  David Wells , a spokesman at Goldman Sachs, declined to
comment.  Carrie Kizer , a spokeswoman for Omaha, Nebraska-based
Berkshire, didn’t immediately return messages seeking comment.  Berkshire’s stake gets a 10 percent dividend, costing
Goldman Sachs $500 million a year. By contrast, the $2.25
billion of five-year notes the firm issued in July yield 2.95
percent, according to data from Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The firm held $173 billion in cash and other easy-to-sell
assets at the end of September and could use some of that money
to repay Buffett, the person said. The company is also
responding to new capital rules imposed by international
regulators under the Basel III regime, which wouldn’t count
Berkshire’s stake as Tier One capital, the person said.  Warrants  Buffett’s $5 billion investment in perpetual preferred
shares, announced on Sept. 23, 2008, can be called at any time
at a 10 percent premium. Berkshire also received warrants to buy
$5 billion of common stock with a strike price of $115 per
share, which can be exercised at any time within five years.  Under the terms of Berkshire’s investment, Blankfein, Chief
Financial Officer  David Viniar  and Co-Presidents  Gary Cohn  and
 Jon Winkelried  were named in the “material definitive
agreement” that prevents them, their families and their estates
from selling more than 10 percent of the common stock they own
until Oct. 1, 2011, or until Berkshire redeems its $5 billion in
preferred stock, whichever comes soonest. Winkelried left
Goldman Sachs in March 2009.  The agreement pertained to stock owned by the executives as
of Sept. 28, 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 