-- Goldman Sachs May Repay $5 Billion to Warren Buffett, WSJ Says
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y   a n d   C h r i s   P e t e r s o n
-- 2010-10-21T05:26:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/goldman-sachs-may-repay-5-billion-to-warren-buffett-wsj-says.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  may repay a
$5 billion investment from  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc.  that boosted the bank during the 2008 financial crisis, the
Wall Street Journal said, citing unidentified people.  Goldman Sachs has the option of paying $5.5 billion to
redeem the shares, although that would trigger a charge of $1.6
billion and need approval from the U.S. Federal Reserve, the
newspaper said.  Edward Naylor , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs in
Hong Kong, declined to comment.  Berkshire’s investment in September 2008 reassured
investors and allowed Goldman Sachs to raise another $5 billion
the following day, according to the newspaper. Goldman Sachs is
considering using some of its $173 billion in “excess
liquidity” to repay Berkshire, the Journal reported.  Annual  dividends  of 10 percent on Berkshire’s preferred
Goldman Sachs shares have cost the investment bank about $1
billion, the equivalent of more than $1.3 million a day, the
newspaper reported. Funding from debt markets has become cheaper
since the crisis, and Goldman Sachs would be able to replace the
capital, the Journal said.  Repaying Berkshire’s investment would also lift
restrictions that prevent Goldman Sachs Chief Executive Officer
 Lloyd Blankfein  and other executives from selling more than 10
percent of their shares in the firm, according to the report.
That curb was requested by Buffett at the time of the deal, the
newspaper said.  It’s not clear whether executives at the New York-based
bank have sought approval from the Federal Reserve for repaying
Berkshire, the Journal said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Angus Whitley  in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  