-- Google Gets Android on More Than 95 Devices to Boost Ad Sales
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2010-10-21T18:12:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/google-gets-android-on-more-than-95-devices-to-boost-ad-sales.html
Google Inc . has landed its Android
software on more than 95 handsets, up from about 60 in May,
helping sales chief  Nikesh Arora  in his bid to generate revenue
from mobile advertising and other businesses besides Web search.  The company benefits as more manufacturers, such as
Motorola Inc., use the Android operating system in smartphones
and as marketers spend more on ads aimed at device owners.  “We are at a very nascent stage in mobile advertising,”
Arora said this week in an interview. “The more you’re concerned
about your return on investment -- and you’re going to spend
more on advertising -- we like it.”  Arora, 42, is using mobile and display advertising to
lessen the company’s reliance on search, which makes up most of
its revenue. Google, owner of the most-used engine for finding
information on the Web, faces rising competition for advertising
dollars from Facebook Inc. and Microsoft Corp.  “There’s a lot of pressure that they need to accelerate
growth in nontraditional ways, and they’re starting to do that,”
said  Mike Hickey , an analyst at Janco Partners Inc. in Greenwood
Village, Colorado, who rates the stock a buy and doesn’t own it.  Google is also relying on display ads, including video
clips and graphic banner ads that appear alongside text on Web
pages. Google, which had $27.6 billion  in sales  in the last four
quarters, said last week it expects to exceed $2.5 billion in
annual display-ad sales and $1 billion in mobile-ad revenue.  Google, based in Mountain View, California, declined 61
cents to $607.37 at 2:05 p.m. New York Time on the Nasdaq Stock
Market. The shares had fallen 1.9 percent this year through
yesterday.  Brand Awareness  To expand in display advertising, Google  purchased 
DoubleClick for $3.24 billion in 2008. That business has
increased the daily number of ads it serves by 300 percent in
the last four years, according to Google.  The mobile and display businesses, which have some overlap,
helped the company top sales  estimates  in the third quarter.
Revenue, excluding sales passed on to partner sites, was $5.48
billion, exceeding the $5.26 billion average of estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Google needs display advertising to attract advertisers
that want to raise awareness of a brand -- not drive an
immediate online purchase, said  Andrew Frank , an analyst at
Gartner Inc. in New York.  “There’s a long-standing belief that sight, sound and
motion are important to convey the emotional aspects of a
brand,” he said. “It’s of course difficult to do that with
textual search ads.”  Android Gains  Google bulked up in display through the 2006 acquisition of
YouTube, the most visited U.S. video-sharing site. The number of
videos being watched that can be monetized -- or targeted with
ads -- exceed 2 billion on a weekly basis, up more than 50
percent from a year earlier, Google said last week.  The company bolstered its display capabilities in the past
year through acquisitions, including Teracent, which tailors ads
for online users, and Invite Media, which helps customers place
ads via exchanges on websites more effectively. The company is
open to more acquisitions, Arora said.  “We’re happy with all the stuff we have right now; we’re
working hard at delivering,” he said. “If there’s something
interesting that comes up, it’s very important to not shut the
door.”  Android, which Google acquired in 2005, has surged in
popularity among consumers, overtaking  Research In Motion Ltd. ’s
BlackBerry to become the top smartphone operating system in the
U.S. in the second quarter, according to Gartner. It’s more
widely used than Apple Inc.’s mobile software.  Google, which doesn’t charge for Android, sells advertising
tied to searches, and applications and mobile sites, including
games and entertainment, used on smartphones that run Android.
Google also generates mobile ad sales from the placement of ads
on other mobile operating systems, including those of RIM and
Apple.  “Android is hugely profitable,” Google Chief Executive
Officer  Eric Schmidt  said during the conference call last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Womack  in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  