-- Google 2.4% Rate Shows How $60 Billion Lost to Tax Loopholes
-- B y   J e s s e   D r u c k e r
-- 2010-10-21T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/google-2-4-rate-shows-how-60-billion-u-s-revenue-lost-to-tax-loopholes.html
Google Inc.  cut its taxes by $3.1
billion in the last three years using a technique that moves
most of its foreign profits through Ireland and the Netherlands
to Bermuda.  Google’s income shifting -- involving strategies known to
lawyers as the “Double Irish” and the “Dutch Sandwich” --
helped reduce its overseas tax rate to 2.4 percent, the lowest
of the top five U.S. technology companies by market
capitalization, according to  regulatory filings  in six
countries.  “It’s remarkable that Google’s effective rate is that
low,” said  Martin A. Sullivan , a tax economist who formerly
worked for the U.S. Treasury Department. “We know this company
operates throughout the world mostly in high-tax countries where
the average corporate rate is well over 20 percent.”  The U.S. corporate income-tax rate is 35 percent. In the
U.K., Google’s second-biggest market by revenue, it’s 28
percent.  Google, the owner of the world’s most popular search
engine, uses a strategy that has gained favor among such
companies as Facebook Inc. and Microsoft Corp. The method takes
advantage of Irish tax law to legally shuttle profits into and
out of subsidiaries there, largely escaping the country’s 12.5
percent income tax. (See an interactive graphic on Google’s tax
strategy  here .)  The  earnings  wind up in island havens that levy no
corporate income taxes at all. Companies that use the Double
Irish arrangement avoid taxes at home and abroad as the U.S.
government struggles to close a projected $1.4 trillion  budget
gap  and European Union countries face a collective projected
deficit of 868 billion euros.  Countless Companies  Google, the third-largest U.S. technology company by market
capitalization, hasn’t been accused of breaking tax laws.
“Google’s practices are very similar to those at countless
other global companies operating across a wide range of
industries,” said  Jane Penner , a spokeswoman for the Mountain
View, California-based company. Penner declined to address the
particulars of its tax strategies.  Facebook, the world’s biggest social network, is preparing
a structure similar to Google’s that will send earnings from
Ireland to the Cayman Islands, according to the company’s
filings in Ireland and the Caymans and to a person familiar with
its plans. A spokesman for the Palo Alto, California-based
company declined to comment.  Transfer Pricing  The tactics of Google and Facebook depend on “transfer
pricing,” paper transactions among corporate  subsidiaries  that
allow for allocating income to tax havens while attributing
expenses to higher-tax countries. Such income shifting costs the
U.S. government as much as $60 billion in annual revenue,
according to Kimberly A. Clausing, an economics professor at
Reed College in Portland, Oregon.  U.S. Representative  Dave Camp  of Michigan, the ranking
Republican on the House Ways and Means Committee, and other
politicians say the 35 percent U.S. statutory rate is too high
relative to foreign countries. International income-shifting,
which helped cut Google’s overall effective tax rate to 22.2
percent last year, shows one way that loopholes undermine that
top U.S. rate.  Two thousand U.S. companies paid a median effective cash
rate of 28.3 percent in federal, state and foreign income taxes
in a 2005 study by academics at the University of Michigan and
the University of North Carolina. The combined national-local
statutory rate is 34.4 percent in France, 30.2 percent in
Germany and 39.5 percent in Japan, according to the Paris-based
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.  The Double Irish  As a strategy for limiting taxes, the Double Irish method
is “very common at the moment, particularly with companies with
intellectual property,” said  Richard Murphy , director of U.K.-
based Tax Research LLP. Murphy, who has worked on similar
transactions, estimates that hundreds of multinationals use some
version of the method.  The high corporate tax rate in the U.S. motivates companies
to move activities and related income to lower-tax countries,
said Irving H. Plotkin, a senior managing director at
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP’s national tax practice in Boston. He
delivered a presentation in Washington, D.C. this year titled
“Transfer Pricing is Not a Four Letter Word.”  “A company’s obligation to its shareholders is to try to
minimize its taxes and all costs, but to do so legally,”
Plotkin said in an interview.  Boosting Earnings  Google’s transfer pricing contributed to international tax
benefits that boosted its earnings by 26 percent last year,
company filings show. Based on a rough analysis, if the company
paid taxes at the 35 percent rate on all its earnings, its share
price might be reduced by about $100, said  Clayton Moran , an
analyst at Benchmark Co. in Boca Raton, Florida. He recommends
buying Google stock, which closed yesterday at $607.98.  The company, which tells employees “ don’t be evil ” in its
code of conduct, has cut its effective tax rate abroad more than
its peers in the technology sector: Apple Inc., the maker of the
iPhone;  Microsoft , the largest software company;  International
Business Machines Corp. , the biggest computer-services provider;
and Oracle Corp., the second-biggest software company. Those
companies reported rates that ranged between 4.5 percent and
25.8 percent for 2007 through 2009.  Google is “flying a  banner  of doing no evil, and then
they’re perpetrating evil under our noses,” said  Abraham J. Briloff , a professor emeritus of accounting at Baruch College in
New York who has examined Google’s tax disclosures.  “Who is it that paid for the underlying concept on which
they built these billions of dollars of revenues?” Briloff
said. “It was paid for by the United States citizenry.”  Taxpayer Funding  The U.S.  National Science Foundation  funded the mid-1990s
research at Stanford University that helped lead to Google’s
creation. Taxpayers also paid for a scholarship for the
company’s cofounder, Sergey Brin, while he worked on that
research. Google now has a stock market value of $194.2 billion.  Google’s annual reports from 2007 to 2009 ascribe a
cumulative $3.1 billion tax savings to the “foreign rate
differential.” Such entries typically describe how much tax
U.S. companies save from profits earned overseas.  In February, the  Obama  administration proposed measures to
curb shifting profits offshore, part of a package intended to
raise $12 billion a year over the coming decade. While the key
proposals largely haven’t advanced in Congress, the IRS said in
April it would devote additional agents and lawyers to focus on
five large transfer pricing arrangements.  Arm’s Length  Income shifting commonly begins when companies like Google
sell or license the foreign rights to intellectual property
developed in the U.S. to a subsidiary in a low-tax country. That
means foreign profits based on the technology get attributed to
the offshore unit, not the parent. Under U.S. tax rules,
subsidiaries must pay “arm’s length” prices for the rights --
or the amount an unrelated company would.  Because the payments contribute to taxable income, the
parent company has an incentive to set them as low as possible.
Cutting the foreign subsidiary’s expenses effectively shifts
profits overseas.  After three years of negotiations, Google received approval
from the IRS in 2006 for its transfer pricing arrangement,
according to filings with the Securities and Exchange
Commission.  The IRS gave its consent in a secret pact known as an
advanced pricing agreement. Google wouldn’t discuss the price
set under the arrangement, which licensed the rights to its
search and advertising technology and other intangible property
for Europe, the Middle East and Africa to a unit called Google
Ireland Holdings, according to a person familiar with the
matter.  Dublin Office  That licensee in turn owns Google Ireland Limited, which
employs almost 2,000 people in a silvery glass office building
in central Dublin, a block from the city’s Grand Canal. The
Dublin subsidiary sells advertising globally and was credited by
Google with 88 percent of its $12.5 billion in non-U.S. sales in
2009.  Allocating the revenue to Ireland helps Google avoid income
taxes in the U.S., where most of its technology was developed.
The arrangement also reduces the company’s liabilities in
relatively high-tax European countries where many of its
customers are located.  The profits don’t stay with the Dublin subsidiary, which
reported pretax income of less than 1 percent of sales in 2008,
according to Irish records. That’s largely because it paid $5.4
billion in royalties to Google Ireland Holdings, which has its
“effective centre of management” in Bermuda, according to
company filings.  Law Firm Directors  This Bermuda-managed entity is owned by a pair of Google
subsidiaries that list as their directors two attorneys and a
manager at Conyers Dill & Pearman, a Hamilton, Bermuda law firm.  Tax planners call such an arrangement a Double Irish
because it relies on two Irish companies. One pays royalties to
use intellectual property, generating expenses that reduce Irish
taxable income. The second collects the royalties in a tax haven
like Bermuda, avoiding Irish taxes.  To steer clear of an Irish withholding tax, payments from
Google’s Dublin unit don’t go directly to Bermuda. A brief
detour to the Netherlands avoids that liability, because Irish
tax law exempts certain royalties to companies in other EU-
member nations. The fees first go to a Dutch unit, Google
Netherlands Holdings B.V., which pays out about 99.8 percent of
what it collects to the Bermuda entity, company filings show.
The Amsterdam-based subsidiary lists no employees.  The Dutch Sandwich  Inserting the Netherlands stopover between two other units
gives rise to the “Dutch Sandwich” nickname.  “The sandwich leaves no tax behind to taste,” said Murphy
of Tax Research LLP.  Microsoft, based in Redmond, Washington, has also used a
Double Irish structure, according to company filings overseas.
 Forest Laboratories Inc. , maker of the antidepressant Lexapro,
does as well, Bloomberg News reported in May. The New York-based
drug manufacturer claims that most of its profits are earned
overseas even though its sales are almost entirely in the U.S.
Forest later disclosed that its transfer pricing was being
audited by the IRS.  Since the 1960s, Ireland has pursued a strategy of offering
tax incentives to attract multinationals. A lesser-appreciated
aspect of Ireland’s appeal is that it allows companies to shift
income out of the country with minimal tax consequences, said
Jim Stewart, a senior lecturer in finance at Trinity College’s
school of business in Dublin.  Getting Profits Out  “You accumulate profits within Ireland, but then you get
them out of the country relatively easily,” Stewart said. “And
you do it by using Bermuda.”  Eoin Dorgan, a spokesman for the  Irish Department of
Finance , declined to comment on Google’s strategies
specifically. “Ireland always seeks to ensure that the profits
charged in Ireland fully reflect the functions, assets and risks
located here by multinational groups,” he said.  Once Google’s non-U.S. profits hit Bermuda, they become
difficult to track. The subsidiary managed there changed its
legal form of organization in 2006 to become a so-called
unlimited liability company. Under Irish rules, that means it’s
not required to disclose such financial information as income
statements or balance sheets.  “Sticking an unlimited company in the group structure has
become more common in Ireland, largely to prevent disclosure,”
Stewart said.  Deferred Indefinitely  Technically, multinationals that shift profits overseas are
deferring U.S. income taxes, not avoiding them permanently. The
deferral lasts until companies decide to bring the earnings back
to the U.S. In practice, they rarely repatriate significant
portions, thus avoiding the taxes indefinitely, said Michelle
Hanlon, an accounting professor at the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology.  U.S. policy makers, meanwhile, have taken halting steps to
address concerns about transfer pricing. In 2009, the Treasury
Department proposed levying taxes on certain payments between
U.S. companies’ foreign subsidiaries.  Treasury officials, who estimated the policy change would
raise $86.5 billion in new revenue over the next decade, dropped
it after Congress and Treasury were lobbied by companies,
including manufacturing and media conglomerate General Electric
Co., health-product maker  Johnson & Johnson  and coffee giant
Starbucks Corp., according to federal disclosures compiled by
the non-profit Center for Responsive Politics.  Administration Concerned  While the administration “remains concerned” about
potential abuses, officials decided “to defer consideration of
how to reform those rules until they can be studied more
broadly,” said Sandra Salstrom, a Treasury spokeswoman. The
White House still proposes to tax excessive profits of offshore
subsidiaries as a curb on income shifting, she said.  The rules for transfer pricing should be replaced with a
system that allocates profits among countries the way most U.S.
states with a corporate income tax do -- based on such aspects
as sales or number of employees in each jurisdiction, said
 Reuven S. Avi-Yonah , director of the international tax program
at the University of Michigan Law School.  “The system is broken and I think it needs to be
scrapped,” said Avi-Yonah, also a special counsel at law firm
Steptoe & Johnson LLP in Washington D.C. “Companies are getting
away with murder.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Drucker in New York at 
 jdrucker4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net . 