-- Greece's Debt Swaps Signal Threat of Imminent Default Easing: Euro Credit
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2010-10-22T10:53:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/greece-s-default-swaps-show-threat-of-imminent-default-easing-euro-credit.html
For the first time since January,
insuring against Greece defaulting within a year is cheaper than
buying cover for longer, a sign of declining risk in the nation
that sparked Europe’s sovereign debt crisis.  Credit-default swaps protecting Greek government bonds for
a year cost 565 basis points, 61 basis points less than 10-year
protection, according to CMA in London. Before the nation was
rescued with a 110 billion-euro ($153 billion) international
loan package in May, investors concerned Greece would renege on
its debt commitments were willing to pay 665 basis points more
for one-year swaps than for 10-year insurance.  The shift suggests that Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s
spending cuts and austerity measures are buying the country time
to reduce a budget deficit that’s more than four times the
European Union’s limit. Greece’s debt is still the world’s
second-riskiest behind Venezuela’s, with a 44 percent
probability of default within five years, CMA prices show.  “The momentum toward Greece has gone much, much more
positive in the last few weeks,” said  Anke Richter , a credit
strategist at London-based brokerage Conduit Capital Markets
Ltd. “They’ve shown the market they’re bringing their house in
order and they’re making good progress.”  Greek government bonds were Europe’s best performers in the
third quarter, returning 4.8 percent, the most since the three
months ending June 2009, indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies show.  ‘On Track’  Moody’s Investors Service said Oct. 5 that Greece’s drive
to overhaul public finances had “impressed” the New York-based
firm, which signaled that it may now raise the nation’s rating,
having cut it to junk in June. The country is “very much on
track” to return to international bond markets in the next 12
to 18 months,  Ajai Chopra , acting director of the International
Monetary Fund’s European Department, said Oct. 20.  Longer-term debt insurance is typically more expensive than
shorter-term protection, and an inversion of the credit-default
swap curve signals investors are speculating there’s an imminent
risk of default.  Europe’s sovereign debt crisis erupted at the end of 2009
after Greece’s newly elected socialist government said the
budget deficit was twice as big as the previous administration
had disclosed. The EU and IMF approved the aid package on May 2
in exchange for Papandreou agreeing to cut public-sector wages
and pensions and raise taxes on fuel, alcohol and cigarettes.  Still Inverted  The Greek credit-default swap curve remains inverted beyond
one year, with two-year swaps costing more than any other
maturity, according to CMA. Prices for all contracts remain
elevated. One-year insurance started the year at 143 basis
points, before rising to 1,300 basis points at the peak of the
crisis in June.  “Markets have improved but sovereign concerns are still
there,” said  Giada Giani , an economist at Citigroup Inc. in
London, the largest U.S. bank.  Eurostat, the EU’s statistics office, will provide revised
Greek budget deficit figures for 2006 to 2009 by mid-November.
The shortfall is currently put at 13.6 percent of gross domestic
product, and the revision may push Greece back above Ireland as
the country with the largest 2009 gap, setting a new record
since the start of the euro. EU members are supposed to have
deficits no higher than 3 percent of the size of their economy.  Highest Yield  Yields on  10-year  Greek bonds remain the highest in the
euro region, at 9.4 percent. That compares with 6.54 percent for
Ireland, 5.93 percent for Portugal, 4.17 percent for Spain and
3.87 percent for Italy.  Credit-default swap curves for Spanish, Portuguese and
Irish debt also inverted this year. Swap prices show that, after
Greece, Ireland is the second-riskiest European nation with a 30
percent chance of default in five years, ahead of Portugal at 26
percent, according to CMA.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A basis point on
a contract insuring $10 million of debt is equivalent to $1,000
a year.  IMF Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  said Oct. 10
in a Bloomberg HT television interview that Greece is taking the
right steps to reduce spending and will extend terms of its
loans if euro-region nations agree. Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao 
said on Oct. 2 that China’s committed “very positively” to
adding to its holdings of Greek bonds.  “Sentiment has turned round a little regarding Greece,”
said  Rob Dekker , who helps manage $32 billion of European
government debt at F&C Asset Management Plc in Amsterdam. “More
people looking at it from a fundamental point of view.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Abigail Moses  in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net ;
 Maria Petrakis  at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  