-- Icahn Offers MGM Studio Debt Holders Minimum for Vote In Takeover Battle
-- B y   A n t h o n y   P a l a z z o
-- 2010-10-21T14:22:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/icahn-offers-mgm-studio-debt-holders-minimum-price-for-vote-on-plan-block.html
Carl Icahn  offered to guarantee
 Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc.  lenders a minimum price for the film
studio’s debt if they vote with him to block a plan to turn over
management of the company to Spyglass Entertainment.  The 74-year-old billionaire offered lenders the right to
sell him MGM’s senior secured loans for 45 cents on the dollar,
about what they have fetched in recent trades. The offer is
conditioned on acceptance by holders of $963 million of the Los
Angeles-based studio’s debt, Icahn said today in a statement.  Icahn supports an alternative proposal by  Lions Gate
Entertainment Corp.  to acquire MGM for as much as $1.8 billion
in equity and debt. Under the Lions Gate plan, MGM creditors
would own about a 55 percent stake in the combined company. The
Spyglass plan would give current lenders 95 percent of the
equity in MGM and wipe out the debt in a streamlined bankruptcy.  Icahn’s latest offer gives investors “the right to keep
the upside on their MGM position, if there is one, without
taking risk on the downside,” he said in the statement.  MGM stopped paying interest on more than $3.7 billion in
debt last year. The put rights offered by Icahn would be
exercisable until two weeks after MGM emerges from bankruptcy or
one year from the voting deadline of Oct. 29, whichever comes
first.  Lions Gate, based in Vancouver, British Columbia and run
from Santa Monica, California, made its competing offer on Oct.
12 with the support of Icahn. He has separately offered to buy
Lions Gate for $7.50 a share and has been battling management
for control of the independent studio since early this year.  Lions Gate rose 1 cent to $7.50 at 10:18 a.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares had climbed 29
percent this year before today.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  