-- Microsoft’s Phones Not Good Enough: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2010-10-21T17:58:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/microsoft-s-windows-phone-7-isn-t-good-enough-rich-jaroslovsky.html
Ever seen a Microsoft Zune HD? It’s
a lovely little device for watching movies, listening to music
and playing games. Slim, sleek, sophisticated -- and irrelevant.  That’s because the Zune HD was released two years after the
debut of  Apple Inc. ’s iPod Touch. By the time it joined the
battle, the war was already lost.  In technology, being late can be as disastrous as being
wrong. And that’s the battle  Microsoft Corp.  is now fighting
with the release of Windows Phone 7, its new smartphone
operating system. The good news is that the software is
generally a winner: fun, easy to use and not just another iPhone
wannabe. The bad news is that the good news may not matter.  Microsoft hasn’t just lost market share since the iPhone
inaugurated the modern smartphone era, it has seen its position
implode, falling to 5 percent in the second quarter from 22
percent in 2004.  The company simply can’t afford to be shut out of the
booming market. Morgan Stanley analyst  Mary Meeker  predicts that
within five years, more users will connect to the Internet on
mobile devices than the desktop computers that Microsoft has
dominated for decades. Unless the company can establish a
beachhead in mobile, it’s facing a long slow slide into
irrelevance.  Android Threat  As devastating as the iPhone’s arrival proved, Microsoft’s
true mortal threat comes from  Google Inc. ’s Android software,
which in little more than a year has skyrocketed. Google says it
is now activating more than 200,000 new Android devices a day.
While Google gives its software to manufacturers, Microsoft
charges for its.  To make Windows Phone 7 a success, Microsoft also is
spending massively on marketing and offering its business
partners other inducements that Google doesn’t. Phones equipped
with the new operating system go on sale early next month.  Chief Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer ’s previous attempts
to stem the Android-iPhone tide resulted in embarrassment upon
embarrassment, including a roundly panned update of Microsoft’s
previous mobile operating system in 2009 and, earlier this year,
the dismal failure of its Kin line, two phones built around
social networking that were killed off less than two months
after they were introduced.  In other words, the stakes could hardly be higher. And
because of that, Microsoft -- which is exerting a great deal of
control over manufacturers in terms of the look and feel of the
new Windows Phone 7 handsets -- deserves a lot of credit for
being willing to do a few things that go against the prevailing
smartphone norm.  Live Tiles  The difference is apparent from the moment you power up a
Windows Phone. Instead of screen after screen of application
icons, as with the iPhone and Android phones, you’re presented
with a set of colorful rectangles Microsoft calls “live
tiles.” Some of these provide information and summon basic
functions, such as the phone tile that tells you how many calls
you’ve missed and brings up the dial pad; some are links to
programs, such as a mobile version of Microsoft’s Internet
Explorer Browser; and some are entry points for what Windows
Phone 7 calls “hubs.”  To the extent that  Windows Phone 7  has a Big Idea, hubs is
it. These are collections of programs, information and functions
organized around a single theme. There are six of them: People,
Pictures, Music and Video, Marketplace, Microsoft Office and
Games.  Accessing Music, Photos  The People hub, for instance, agglomerates your address
book, Facebook friend list and updates in one place. Music and
Videos is based on the Zune software, which is easy to use and
syncs with content on your computer. Games brings the  Xbox Live 
service to mobile phones, allowing you to play against other
users, though I personally prefer not to share with others
evidence of my startling lack of ability. The Pictures hub is
both a home for your own photos and videos and a portal for
viewing and commenting on others’ Facebook photos.  The idea sounds more complicated than it is. I found the
hubs generally logical and easy to grasp; their major
shortcoming is that they are too limited.  Facebook, for example, is well integrated into the People
hub -- but Twitter isn’t. For that, you have to leave the tile
view to scroll through a tiresome vertical list of apps.  The Pictures hub is great if you and your friends all use
Facebook or Microsoft’s Windows Live to store photos online. Use
 Yahoo ’s Flickr or some other service? Not so lucky.  Microsoft has a good idea here, but it has to do much more
to make its phones friendlier to the things I want to use on it,
not what it and its partners want me to use.  Business Considerations  That, in fact, is my biggest complaint about Windows Phone
7: Too much about it seems dictated by business considerations
rather than user experience. For instance, the two AT&T Inc.
phones I tested -- the  HTC  Surround and the  Samsung  Focus --both
included a fat first-screen tile touting  AT&T ’s U-verse
television service.  Office, which includes limited-function productivity
software, seems to be a hub because, well, Microsoft owns
Microsoft Office.  The Surround and HTC’s HD7, which is appearing in the U.S.
on the T-mobile network, both have tiles leading to an “HTC
Hub” that, confusingly, includes its own interface and featured
apps.  Playing Catch Up  Because Windows Phone 7 is, essentially, an entirely new
smartphone platform, it will take a while before we have any
sense of whether and how quickly third-party developers write
apps for it. (The new Marketplace hub is still in the process of
being populated.) Certainly  Microsoft , with its deep pockets,
will do all it can to provide inducements, but it’s safe to say
that it will lag far behind the iPhone, Android devices and even
Research In Motion Ltd.’s BlackBerry for a long time to come.  Similarly, Microsoft has a lot of catching up to do in
terms of basic functionality. Among other things, Windows Phone
7 doesn’t yet offer a visual listing of voicemail messages, as
Android phones and iPhones do, nor is it equipped to share
its Internet connection with other devices.  Facing a field crowded with well-entrenched competitors,
Microsoft smartly decided it stood little chance with a me-too
entry. Its gamble to do things differently resulted in a product
that, all things being equal, provides a plausible alternative.
But at this late date, all things aren’t equal, and Windows
Phone 7, while much better than previous Microsoft offerings,
doesn’t do any one thing so much better that it makes you have
to have it.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Rich Jaroslovsky in San Francisco at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 