-- Military's Don't Ask, Don't Tell Policy Will Stand Temporarily, Court Says
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2010-10-21T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/military-s-don-t-ask-don-t-tell-policy-will-stand-temporarily-court-says.html
A U.S. appeals court temporarily
delayed enforcement of a ruling requiring the government to end
its “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” policy barring gays and lesbians
from serving openly in the military.  A three-judge panel at the U.S. Court of Appeals in San
Francisco yesterday temporarily postponed the ruling, saying in
a three-sentence order it wanted “to provide this court with an
opportunity to consider fully the issues presented.”  The government asked the court yesterday to delay the
Oct. 12 order after the lower-court judge who issued it turned
down an emergency request for postponement. The government is
seeking to keep the ruling from taking effect until the appeals
court can hear the case, which could take weeks.  President  Barack Obama  supports repeal of “Don’t Ask,
Don’t Tell,” the government said in court filings. Still,
terminating the rule should take place only after advance
planning and training, the government said. The Defense
Department’s findings on how the ban should be ended are
scheduled to be completed Dec. 1.  U.S. District Judge  Virginia Phillips  in Riverside,
California, ruled last month that the law setting up the “Don’t
Ask, Don’t Tell” policy violates constitutionally protected
rights to due process and free speech.  ‘Significant Immediate Harm’  Phillips’s order “risks causing significant immediate harm
to the military and its efforts to be prepared to implement an
orderly repeal of the statute,” the U.S. said in the filing
with the appeals court.  Tracy Schmaler , a Justice Department spokeswoman, didn’t
immediately return a voice-mail message after regular business
hours.  “While we are disappointed with the court’s ruling
granting a temporary administrative stay, we view the decision
as nothing more than a minor setback,” said  Dan Woods , White &
Case partner who is representing Log Cabin Republicans, the
group that sued to overturn the policy, said in an e-mail.  The court gave the Log Cabin Republicans until Oct. 25 to
file papers opposing a longer postponement while the
government’s appeal is being decided.  The lower court case is Log Cabin Republicans v. U.S., 04-
08425, U.S. District Court, Central District of California
(Riverside). The appellate case is Log Cabin Republicans v.
United States, 10-56634, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Karen Gullo  in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 