-- Lilly, MacroGenics Say Diabetes Treatment Misses Goal in Late-Stage Study
-- B y   D a v i d   O l m o s
-- 2010-10-21T00:17:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/lilly-macrogenics-say-diabetes-treatment-misses-goal-in-late-stage-study.html
Eli Lilly & Co . and MacroGenics Inc.
said an experimental diabetes treatment failed to help patients
in a late-stage study, the second setback for a Lilly diabetes
drug candidate in two days.  An analysis by an independent panel of experts determined
that the drug, teplizumab, was not effective in slowing the
progress of Type 1 diabetes, the companies said in a statement.
Lilly and MacroGenics will suspend the study, the third of three
phases of clinical trials usually needed to gain U.S. regulatory
approval, and two additional trials of the drug for Type 1
diabetes, Kelley Murphy, a Lilly spokeswoman, said today in a
telephone interview.  Lilly, based in Indianapolis, licensed teplizumab from
MacroGenics, a closely held company in Rockville, Maryland, that
is also developing drugs to treat cancer and infectious
diseases. Teplizumab was the most advanced drug in MacroGenics’s
pipeline, the company said on its website. Lilly is seeking new
treatments to replace revenue when older medicines including its
 top-seller , the antipsychotic Zyprexa, lose patent protection
beginning next year.  “Lilly and MacroGenics will be considering all options for
teplizumab in Type 1 diabetes,” Gwen Krivi, a vice president in
Lilly’s diabetes group, said in the statement.  Patients with Type 1 diabetes don’t produce the insulin
needed to regulate blood sugar. It usually is diagnosed in
children and young adults and was formerly known as juvenile
diabetes, according to the  American Diabetes Association .  John Lechleiter , Lilly’s chief executive, in April 2008
cited teplizumab as one of three most promising experimental
drugs in the company’s pipeline.  Lilly’s shares fell $1.44, or 3.9 percent, to $36.01 at 4
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the company’s
biggest single-day decline in 10 months. Lilly and its partners,
 Amylin Pharmaceuticals Inc.  and  Alkermes Inc.  announced
yesterday that U.S. regulators had rejected a proposed once-
weekly version of their diabetes drug Byetta.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Olmos  in San Francisco at 
 dolmos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 Rgale5@bloomberg.net  