-- IMF Says Asia's Economies Lead Global Recovery, Raising Inflation Concern
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2010-10-21T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/imf-says-asia-s-economies-lead-global-recovery-raising-inflation-concern.html
Asia’s world-leading economies will
keep drawing capital because interest rates in the U.S. and
other advanced nations will be low for a prolonged period, the
International Monetary Fund said, urging officials in the region
to withdraw stimulus to contain inflation.  “The main short-term policy challenge for Asian policy
makers is to manage the exit from policy stimulus now that the
recovery is well under way,” the Washington-based IMF said in a
report released today. “An early move to normalize monetary
policy stances is needed to head off  pressures  in goods and
asset prices.”  The IMF, founded after World War II to rescue countries in
financial distress, issued its report the day before Group of 20
finance ministers and central bankers begin talks in Gyeongju,
South Korea. The fund, which bailed out nations including
Thailand and Korea in 1997, referred in the report to Asia’s
susceptibility to boom-bust cycles.  China’s currency, the yuan, remains “substantially below”
a level consistent with medium-term economic fundamentals, the
fund said, repeating a phrase that IMF staff used in a report
earlier this year.  China kept the yuan stable at about 6.83 per dollar from
July 2008 to June 2010, after allowing it to gain 21 percent in
the previous three years.  The IMF report today said even after a 2 percent gain
against the U.S. dollar this year, the yuan remains “roughly
its level of the late 1990s” in real effective terms.  Currency ‘Flexibility’  Referring to currency policies across the region, the fund
said “greater exchange rate flexibility will be an important
component of policy tightening” and may be justified even in
the absence of “strong and visible” consumer price pressures.  Asia’s economic growth will likely become “more
sustainable” at “still high levels,” while exports are
forecast to “moderate from pre-crisis trends, but will remain
robust,” the IMF said. Inflation, as a result, “is expected to
increase across most of the region,” it said.  Near-zero rates in the U.S. are spurring record investments
in securities of faster-growing economies such as India and
China. The head of the Asian Development Bank two days ago urged
emerging economies in the region to allow some appreciation in
their currencies or risk “significant” inflation pressures as
capital flows into their markets.  Boom-Bust ‘History’  “History suggests that Asia can be susceptible to asset
boom-bust cycles during periods of ‘excess liquidity,’” the IMF
said in its Regional Economic Outlook for Asia and the Pacific.
“Real policy rates are still well below their pre-crisis levels
in most economies despite the rapid recovery and, with a few
exceptions they are also well below estimated levels that are
consistent with stable inflation and zero output gaps.”  All of Asia’s major currencies, except the Hong Kong dollar
which is pegged to the U.S. currency, have strengthened this
year. That’s prompted some countries to take steps aimed at
slowing incoming capital as their currencies rise to levels that
threaten to slow exports.  Nations from South Korea to Thailand sold their currencies
in recent weeks to curb gains. India’s central bank, which has
raised interest rates five times this year, will seek to limit
“serious damage” to exporters, Deputy Governor  Subir Gokarn 
said at a conference on Oct. 14.  China this week unexpectedly raised rates for the first
time since 2007 as it seeks to curb asset-price inflation.  Renewed Slowdown  The IMF said the main risk to Asia is renewed  financial
turbulence  in advanced economies that disrupts domestic demand.
“Although Asia’s economic fundamentals are generally strong,
the region would feel the impact of fresh turmoil and a renewed
slowdown in the rest of the world in light of its close trade
and financial linkages with advanced economies,” the IMF report
said.  The U.S. economy expanded at a “modest pace” in September
and early October with little sign of accelerating and companies
still hesitant to hire, the Federal Reserve said yesterday in
its Beige Book business survey by the 12 regional banks.  That may boost the case for U.S. policy makers to further
ease monetary policy to boost job growth and inflation that’s
too slow for the Fed. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Oct. 15 that
there’s a case for additional stimulus because inflation is too
low and unemployment is too high.  Rising Reserves  The IMF said the acceleration in reserve accumulation in
emerging Asia since May has also contributed to excess liquidity
in many countries.  Inflows of capital contributed to an unprecedented $194
billion increase in China’s foreign-exchange reserves last
quarter, highlighting the risk of excess liquidity fueling more
price gains.  The IMF report was released hours after China’s statistics
bureau reported that the economy grew 9.6 percent in the third
quarter, the smallest gain in a year, as inflation accelerated
in September to the fastest pace in 23 months. Consumer prices
rose 3.6 percent last month, the statistics bureau said at a
briefing in Beijing.  China’s policy makers are trying to curb lending and
prevent an asset-price bubble in a country that surpassed Japan
in the second quarter as the world’s second-largest economy. The
danger is that higher rates will funnel speculative money from
abroad into China, pushing property and consumer prices higher.  Japan’s Stance  In contrast, the IMF said that given the yen’s appreciation
and sluggish domestic demand, the Bank of Japan “should
continue to stand ready to ease policy further to address
possible downside risk to the outlook.” The BOJ on Oct. 5
unexpectedly cut its benchmark rate for the first time since
2008.  “The short-term baseline outlook for Asia remains positive,
with growth expected to settle at more sustainable but still
high levels,” the IMF said. “Growth is likely to remain
particularly strong in the large, domestic-demand-driven
economies of China, India, and Indonesia.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 heath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  