-- IMF Sees `Property Bubble' in China Cities Like Shanghai, Not Nationwide
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2010-10-21T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/imf-sees-property-bubble-in-china-cities-like-shanghai-not-nationwide.html
Shanghai’s property market and some
wealthier areas of Beijing may be starting to overheat, even as
housing prices in China more broadly aren’t rising excessively,
the International Monetary Fund said.  “Mass-market residential markets in Shanghai and Shenzen
and luxury residential markets in Beijing and Nanjing may be in
the early stages of excessive price growth,” the Washington-
based IMF said in its Asia and Pacific Regional Economic Outlook
today. “A property bubble appears to be inflating in some of
the larger cities, although it does not seem as if property
prices are significantly above fundamentals for the country as a
whole.”  New home prices in Shanghai climbed 11 percent to 22,376
yuan ($3,366) per square meter in the week ended Oct. 17 from
the previous week, property consultant Shanghai UWin Real Estate
Information Services Co. said two days ago. Home sales fell 23
percent last week, it said.  Since April, Chinese policy makers have tightened down-
payment requirements, suspended loans for third-home purchases
and pledged to speed up trials of a property tax that may be
rolled out nationwide. The measures appear to have already had
some impact on price growth, the IMF said today.  “Given the awareness of China’s authorities of the risks
posed by excessive property price growth, and their experience
in containing them, the threat of a housing price bust and
consequent financial instability is not immediate,” the IMF
said in the report.  China’s government will impose further policy curbs on the
property market to reduce social tensions that could arise from
increasing home prices,  Louis-Vincent Gave , chief executive
officer of Marshall Wace GaveKal Asia Ltd., said this week.  China two days ago unexpectedly raised its benchmark
lending and deposit rates for the first time since 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 heath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  