-- U.S. Leading Economic Indicators Increase for Third Month
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a   a n d   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2010-10-21T20:24:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/initial-unemployment-claims-in-u-s-declined-23-000-last-week-to-452-000.html
The gauge of the U.S. economy’s
prospects rose in September for a third month, signaling the
recovery will extend into 2011.  The New York-based Conference Board’s index of leading
economic indicators climbed 0.3 percent, matching the median
forecast of 57 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The number
of claims for jobless benefits last week was consistent with
little progress in the labor market, another report showed.  Improving earnings forecasts by companies from  EBay Inc.  to
 Caterpillar Inc.  propelled a rally in stocks, bolstering the
view that gains in consumer spending, business investment and
 exports  will keep the world’s largest economy afloat. At the
same time, persistent  unemployment  is a reminder the Federal
Reserve may need to do more to spur a pickup in growth.  The data “point toward a sustainable, albeit modest,
economic recovery,” said  Stuart Hoffman , chief economist at PNC
Financial Services Group Inc. in Pittsburgh. “The job market is
showing no real improvement. It’s not good enough for the Fed.”  Another showed manufacturing in the region covered by the
Philadelphia Fed expanded this month for the first time since
July as factory payrolls grew. Its  general economic index  rose
to 1 from minus 0.7 in September, the branch of the central bank
said. Figures greater than zero signal growth.  Claims  for unemployment insurance benefits declined by
23,000 to 452,000 in the week ended Oct. 15, Labor Department
figures showed today. The prior week’s figures were revised up
by 13,000, to the highest level since late August.  Elevated Unemployment  The pace of firings has been little changed since the start
of the year, indicating unemployment will be slow to recede. A
Fed report yesterday showed the economy is growing at a “modest
pace” with companies still hesitant to hire, a reason central
bankers may ease monetary policy.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.2 percent to
1,180.26 at the 4 p.m. close in New York. The Dow Jones
Industrial Average briefly surpassed its highest close since
September 2008, when Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed for
bankruptcy.  Estimates for the leading index in the Bloomberg survey
ranged from gains of 0.1 percent to 0.6 percent. The Conference
Board revised the gain in August down to 0.1 percent from its
0.3 percent previous estimate.  Five of the 10 indicators in the leading index contributed
to the increase, led by the interest-rate spread between the
overnight federal funds rate and the yield on the 10-year
Treasury note.  Rising Stocks  Equity gains also propelled the gauge and continue to
signal sustained growth. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has
climbed 3.2 percent in the first 20 days of this month on
growing speculation the Fed will pump more cash into the economy
to spur the recovery, a strategy known as quantitative easing.  “There would appear -- all else being equal -- to be a
case for further action,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in
an Oct. 15 speech. The recovery is likely to be “fairly modest
in the near term,” and “the preconditions for a pickup in
growth next year remain in place,” he said.  Caterpillar, the world’s largest maker of construction and
mining equipment, raised its full-year earnings forecast and
posted third-quarter profit that topped analysts’ estimates amid
higher emerging-market demand.  EBay, owner of the second-most visited e-commerce site,
forecast fourth-quarter sales and earnings that exceeded
analysts’ estimates. The San Jose, California-based company has
cut listing fees to lure sellers and has made its site easier to
use. The company also is also benefitting from a rise in the
number of consumers making purchases online.  Lack of Jobs  The economy isn’t creating enough jobs to cut unemployment,
which is hovering near 10 percent.  Claims are “still consistent with a sluggish labor
market,” said  Jonathan Basile , an economist at Credit Suisse in
New York. “We’ve been stuck in a range for most of the year. It
doesn’t tell you that the layoff trend has improved dramatically
this year.”  A Columbus Day holiday-shortened work schedule prompted
several states to estimate claims for the prior week, a Labor
Department spokesman said as the data were released to
reporters. The final tallies turned out to be larger than the
estimates, leading to the upward revision, he said.  Continuing Claims  The number of people continuing to receive jobless benefits
fell by 9,000 in the week ended Oct. 9 to 4.44 million, the
lowest since June 26.  The continuing claims figure does not include the number of
Americans receiving extended and emergency benefits under
federal programs. Those who’ve used up their traditional
benefits and are now collecting  emergency  and  extended  payments
increased by about 279,000 to 5.07 million in the week ended
Oct. 2.  President  Barack Obama  and the Democrats are confronted
with voter anger over the state of the economy less than two
weeks before the congressional election. An Oct. 7-10 Bloomberg
National Poll shows almost two-thirds of voters believe the
country is on the wrong track and unemployment is the top
concern for about half the electorate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net ;
 Bob Willis  in Washington at 
 Bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  