-- Uncompleted Residential Developments in Ireland Are Vacant `Ghost Towns'
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2010-10-21T11:56:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/ireland-s-unfinished-residential-developments-become-vacant-ghost-towns-.html
Irish residential developments that
have been started and left unfinished are “ghost towns,” with
more than a quarter of the houses vacant.  A survey of 2,800 developments found that of 120,000
dwellings, 77,000 are complete and occupied, the  Ministry of
Housing and Local Services  said today in a statement. A further
10,000 homes are at stages of construction ranging from site-
clearance to wall-plate level, according to the statement.  “Thousands are left living in ghost estates with dangerous
conditions such as open sewers and water contamination,” said
Terence Flanagan, a member of the opposition Fine Gael party,
in an e-mailed statement after the announcement.  The number of empty homes in Ireland surged after a decade-
long construction boom collapsed in 2007. Developers were forced
to abandon incomplete projects as banks curtailed lending.  The Irish government said last month it expects its budget
deficit to climb to 32 percent this year, as the cost of bailing
out banks carrying bad loans may total as much as 50 billion
euros ($70 billion).  The government said today it’s forming an expert group,
including banks, developers, builders, engineers and government
authorities, to draw up proposals on how to deal with unfinished
developments. The group will meet in the “next couple of
weeks,” the statement said.  Development Land Price  The price of development land in Ireland rose to more than
58,400 euros a hectare in 2006, the highest in Europe, according
to the National Institute for Regional and Spatial Analysis,
citing data from Savills Plc, a property agent. The government
has channelled 33 billion euros into five banks, compared with
the 31 billion it expects to collect in tax this year.  Ciaran Cuffe, a junior minister with responsibility for
planning, told reporters in Dublin today that he’s surprised the
“overhang” of new unoccupied properties isn’t bigger, in view
of earlier predictions.  At the same briefing, Housing Minister Michael Finneran
said he expects vacant homes to help meet social needs this year
and next. The houses are “not a burden but a financial asset,”
he said.  Some houses that have been transferred to the  National
Asset Management Agency , set up to absorb risky loans, may be
leased for social accommodation, Finneran said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Finbarr Flynn  in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  