-- Netanyahu in `Close Contact' With U.S. on Efforts to Restart Peace Talks
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2010-10-24T13:12:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/israel-starts-some-600-west-bank-homes-since-settlement-freeze-group-says.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said he is in close contact with the U.S. government
as part of an effort to restart peace talks with the
Palestinians.  “Our goal is not just to resume the process, but to
advance it in such a way that it can’t be halted in a few weeks
or months,” Netanyahu said today at his weekly Cabinet meeting
in Jerusalem, according to a transcript from his office. “We
are holding intensive contacts with the American
administration.”  The Palestinians have said they won’t continue negotiations
unless Netanyahu freezes all construction in West Bank
settlements. The prime minister has so far refused to renew a
partial moratorium on settlement building that expired Sept. 26.
He said he would consider extending the freeze if Palestinians
recognize Israel as a “Jewish state,” a condition Palestinian
leaders reject on the grounds it undermines the right of return
for Palestinian refugees.  Netanyahu referred to comments by Palestinian leaders that
they might seek recognition from the United Nations if direct
negotiations with Israel collapse.  “I think that any attempt to bypass them by appealing to
international bodies is unrealistic and will not give any
impetus to a genuine diplomatic process,” he said.  The Arab League has given the U.S. until early November to
persuade Israel to stop the building before it considers other
options to the direct talks that started Sept. 2.  Renewed Construction  Since the end of the freeze, Israeli settlers in the West
Bank have started construction on more than 600 homes, according
to the Tel Aviv-based monitoring group  Peace Now .  Israel has built about 120 settlements in the West Bank
since the late 1960s. Another 100 smaller settlements, which
Israel calls outposts, were built during the past decade. About
500,000 Jews have moved to the West Bank and east Jerusalem
since 1967.  The United Nations says the settlements are illegal, and
the International Committee of the Red Cross says they breach
the Fourth Geneva Convention governing actions on occupied
territory. President  Barack Obama  has said the settlements
aren’t legitimate.  Israel says the settlements don’t fall under the convention
because the territory wasn’t recognized as belonging to anyone
before the 1967 Middle East war, in which Israel prevailed, and
therefore isn’t occupied.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Ferziger  in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 