-- Issa Accuses Obama of `Playing Faster and Looser' With Rules Than Bush
-- B y   P a t r i c k   O ’ C o n n o r   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2010-10-21T20:49:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/issa-accuses-obama-of-playing-faster-and-looser-than-bush.html
U.S. Representative  Darrell Issa ,
poised to be chairman of the House Oversight Committee if
Republicans regain the majority on Nov. 2, accused President
 Barack Obama  today of “playing faster and looser with the
rules” than former Republican President  George W. Bush .  The comparison, defending earlier remarks Issa made on  Rush Limbaugh ’s radio show in which he called Obama “one of the most
corrupt presidents in modern times,” came during an interview
on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt .”  As evidence, Issa pointed to a Pentagon practice, under
Obama, of recruiting private contractors to work for the
government with promises of better benefits and higher salaries.  He offered no further proof of subverted rules in Obama’s
Democratic administration. And he was more forgiving about the
administration’s offer of jobs to a pair of Democrats -- U.S.
Representative  Joe Sestak  in Pennsylvania and former state
legislator  Andrew Romanoff  in Colorado -- if they chose not to
pursue primary challenges against two incumbent senators. The
candidates ran.  “It appears as though presidents have been doing this,
even though it’s illegal, for a long time,” Issa said.  He also said he has no plans to further investigate the
Securities and Exchange Commission’s fraud allegations against
the  Goldman Sachs Group Inc .  “The process there worked perfectly,” Issa said,
referring to a report issued Oct. 15 by the agency’s inspector
general that found no evidence a lawsuit filed against the Wall
Street firm was driven by politics. “We’re satisfied.”  Corral Votes  The inspector general agreed to take a look at the case
after Issa questioned whether the SEC filed the lawsuit to help
Obama corral votes for then-pending legislation to overhaul the
country’s financial markets.  In the interview, Issa reiterated his call for tougher,
more frequent scrutiny of the Federal Reserve because it
controls “trillions of dollars of guarantees” that aren’t
included with the money Congress spends each year.  “We do have to have a select team in the House and the
Senate, really be able to look in-depth behind the curtain,
rather than simply have the Fed chairman come up and lecture
us,” he said. One issue is to examine in retrospect how much
money the Fed committed at a particular time compared with what
the central bank said it was doing, Issa said.  Over the past two years, Issa’s committee has disclosed
internal Fed e-mails that he says showed cover-ups of bailout
payments to creditors of  American International Group Inc . and
details of  Bank of America Corp. ’s takeover of Merrill Lynch &
Co.  Regular Oversight  “There needs to be regular oversight,” he said. “This is
no different than our clandestine services. It doesn’t have to
be all public. The audit of the Fed does not have to be put on
the Internet.”  Issa plans to investigate hiring practices in the
administration, particularly within the Department of Defense.
His spokesman, Frederick Hill, explained that the congressman
was talking about the Pentagon’s practice, under the Obama
administration, of “going to employees of contractors, trying
to recruit them to bring them in house” by “telling them
they’d get better benefits or better salary.”  “It’s an illegal practice,” just as illegal as it is for
private contractors to try to recruit government workers on the
same project, he said.  Defeating Contractors  The Obama administration has “pushed their preference to
limit the number of contracts and do more in-sourcing,” Hill
said. “They are trying to do that by defeating contractors” by
“bringing their employees” into the government or “not
letting them work effectively on their contracts.”  Issa singled out Vice President  Joe Biden  for his failure
to monitor that money. The California Republican said neither he
nor Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman  Ed Towns ,
a New York Democrat, has met with Biden about the stimulus.  “Vice President Biden was supposed to be the great
overseer of stimulus money,” he said.  At the same time, he lavished praise on  Earl Devaney , the
inspector general for the Department of the Interior who’s been
given the job of overseeing stimulus spending, saying, “He’s
done as good a job as anyone who was ever handed $800 billion of
oversight, little budget and no time to do it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Patrick O’Connor  in Washington at 
 poconnor14@bloomberg.net ;
 James Rowley  in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  