-- Hitler's Nemesis Still Carries a Big Stick: Theodore Bromund
-- B y   T h e o d o r e   B r o m u n d
-- 2010-10-21T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/hitler-s-nemesis-still-carries-a-big-stick-commentary-by-theodore-bromund.html
Time and again Britain has been
badly misjudged. Napoleon derided it as a “nation of
shopkeepers.”  Adolf Hitler  was sure it would knuckle under
after Dunkirk. The Argentines were sure it would readily cede
the Falkland Islands. And  Saddam Hussein  never gave it a
thought. All of them lost their wars with Britain.  The British defense review, announced this week, has given
critics an opportunity to misjudge the U.K. again, and many have
made the most of it. But even if the cuts are carried out in
full, Britain will still be a major military power. The review
isn’t flawless, but it represents continuity, not change.  The U.K.’s oversized place in world history makes it easy
to forget how small an island the nation of 61 million actually
is. It is home to less than 1 percent of the global population
and accounts for barely 3 percent of the world’s output. Yet the
review will leave Britain with the world’s fourth-largest
military budget, behind only the U.S., China and Russia. That is
the definition of a nation punching above its weight.  Britain today faces the same problem it has had for
hundreds of years: It has worldwide interests that it can’t
defend on its own. Any effort to do so would bankrupt the
nation. As always, the country must balance its need to maintain
fiscal stability -- the true source of its historic power --
with its need to defend its interests.  Coalition of Willing  The review emphasizes that Britain in the future expects to
fight as part of a coalition. That is hardly new. Contrary to
popular myth, Britain has rarely stood alone against its
enemies. It has normally fought as part of a coalition. The
Battle of Britain was a glorious victory, but fighting without
allies, as  Winston Churchill  recognized, was profoundly
undesirable. The important question is not whether Britain needs
allies. It is whether Britain is preparing in the right way for
the right kinds of war.  The defense review is the work of the Conservative-Liberal
Democrat coalition, but it was shaped by the grim realities they
inherited from 13 years of Labour government.  Tony Blair ’s
foreign policy was muscular; his defense budgets were anything
but. After announcing in 1998, in the last defense review, that
Britain had taken its post-Cold War “peace dividend,” Labour
took another and spent it on social services.  Second Greece  The result was that, by 2010, Britain was close to becoming
a second Greece. This failure of fiscal discipline, a common
feature of postwar Labour governments, made it essential for the
incoming administration to scrutinize public spending. What was
true when Churchill was prime minister remains true today: A
bankrupt Britain can’t be a major military power.  We have now seen the results of that scrutiny, in the form
of Chancellor  George Osborne ’s cuts. The government’s failure to
ring-fence defense was a serious error, and Britain will be
lucky to escape its consequences. But given that the cuts had to
come, Defense Secretary  Liam Fox  has done well to protect the
forces from the worst of it. Compared with other departments,
whose budgets will drop by almost 20 percent, defense’s 8
percent drop is modest.  The critics are focusing their fire on the fate of
Britain’s aircraft carriers, which are scheduled for completion
in 2014 and 2016, only for one of them to be sold off. The other
will have no planes until 2020 until it is equipped with the
Anglo-American Joint Strike Fighter. Coupled with the scrapping
of the Ark Royal, that will leave Britain without a carrier-
borne strike force for almost a decade.  Boots on Ground  This decision, too, is unwise. But it points to the broader
problems that have bedeviled British defense planning for
decades. Procuring military equipment is an expensive and long-
run business, and the U.K. has repeatedly locked itself into
contracts for weapons that escalated in price and fell behind on
delivery dates. The result is that it has increasingly looked to
the U.S. to take care of buying the heavy equipment, while
Britain focuses on putting boots on the ground. The latest
review only continues that trend.  In a world of counter-insurgency wars, combat-ready troops
are about the most valuable thing to have. Britain, like the
U.S., has had to relearn a lot of painful lessons about how to
fight insurgencies, and the learning process isn’t over. But if
Britain and the U.S., which is proceeding under the same
assumption, are right that Afghanistan is the future of war, the
direction Britain has moved makes sense.  The problem is that Britain and the U.S. are probably
wrong. Efforts to predict the future of war are necessary, but
they are also usually incorrect. The problem with the defense
review isn’t, fundamentally, with what it does. It is with what
it does not do: make the case for armed forces that can deter
enemies more technologically advanced than the Taliban. That
would be costly. But both Britain and America need to remember
the cheapest war of all is the one you don’t have to fight.  ( Theodore Bromund  is a senior research fellow at the
Heritage Foundation’s Margaret Thatcher Center for Freedom. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Theodore Bromund at  Theodore.Bromund@heritage.org   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  