-- ITT Educational Shares Retreat as Enrollment of New Students Declines 3.9%
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2010-10-21T14:03:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/itt-educational-shares-retreat-as-enrollment-of-new-students-declines-3-9-.html
ITT Educational Services Inc. , the
No. 3 for-profit college in the U.S. by market value, said the
number of new students fell, sending shares down.  New enrollment in the third quarter dropped 3.9 percent to
26,664, the Carmel, Indiana-based company said today in a
statement. ITT fell $1.56, or 2.6 percent, to $57.36 at 9:51
a.m. on the New York Stock Exchange.  ITT’s first decline in new student enrollment since 2002
adds to investor concern that recruiting students may be an
issue for companies throughout the sector, said  Kelly Flynn ,
Boston-based analyst at Credit Suisse Group. Last week,  Apollo
Group Inc. , the biggest education company by enrollment,
withdrew its forecast for the year ending Aug. 31, citing
regulatory scrutiny and a possible 40 percent decline in new
students. ITT reported third-quarter earnings rose 25 percent
and reiterated its 2010 forecast.  “It’s good they were able to beat earnings, but at this
point investors probably care more about the new student growth
than the earnings outperformance because new student growth is a
leading indicator of general business performance,” Flynn, who
rates the shares “neutral,” said in a telephone interview.  Shares of ITT had  declined  39 percent this year before
today. An index of 13 education stocks lost 1 percent.  Net Income  Net income climbed to $93.2 million, or $2.82 a share for
the three months ended Sept. 30, from $74.6 million, or $1.98, a
year earlier, ITT said. That beat the $2.73-a-share average of
14 analysts’ estimates  compiled  by Bloomberg. The number of
continuing students rose 19 percent to 61,340.  For-profit education companies are facing increased
regulatory pressure from Washington, where President  Barack Obama ’s administration is preparing new rules governing the
institutions’ recruitment of students. Senator  Tom Harkin , an
Iowa Democrat, is investigating for-profit colleges’ recruitment
practices, program quality and use of government funds.  ITT’s student enrollment increased 29 percent in the year
ended March 31, and the company increased tuition rates 5
percent in March, company filings show.  New student enrollment in the second quarter rose 10
percent compared with a year earlier, ITT said in July. The
company boosted its 2010 earnings forecast to the range of $11
to $11.35 a share, from $10.50 to $11.25, Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer  Kevin M. Modany  said at the time.  Regulatory Scrutiny  Apollo, operator of the University of Phoenix, said
industry challenges, including “ongoing regulatory and other
scrutiny which has led to heightened media attention,” were
likely to hurt its financial results.  An improving economy may cloud ITT’s outlook, said  Ariel Sokol , an analyst with UBS Investment Research in New York.  “When the economy was doing really bad, enrollment started
to accelerate substantially, new starts went up considerably and
the costs to acquire new customers went down,” Sokol said.
“There’s concern about demand abating as the economy improves,
as people weigh the cost-benefit of attending school versus
getting a job.”  The U.S. Department of Education plans to hear education
companies and advocacy groups comment, on Nov. 4 and 5, on a
proposed rule that would tie for-profit colleges’ eligibility
for student aid to their loan-repayment records and job
placement. The Department had delayed final publication of the
so-called gainful-employment rule after receiving more than
90,000 comments, fueled partly by letter-writing campaigns at
for-profit colleges.  The Department expects to publish rules on or around Nov. 1
that will restore a ban on education companies’ paying
recruiters on the basis of the number of students signed up.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Esmé E. Deprez  in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net . 