-- Janus Shares Fall Most in Five Months as Fund Firm's Redemptions Increase
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2010-10-21T20:34:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/janus-shares-fall-most-in-five-months-as-fund-firm-s-redemptions-increase.html
Janus Capital Group Inc. , owner of
the Janus, Intech and Perkins funds, fell the most in almost
five months in New York trading after client redemptions
accelerated in the third quarter.  Janus dropped 5.9 percent, the most since June 29, after
saying investor withdrawals widened to $2.9 billion from $1.3
billion in the second quarter. Clients pulled a net $2.1 billion
from the Intech unit and $1.8 billion from traditional equity
funds, even as U.S. stocks had their best September in 71 years,
the Denver-based company said today in a statement.  Investors redeemed more than $14 billion in the past two
years from Intech, which uses mathematical models to trade
securities, after the unit’s funds failed to reach their own
return targets. Rising stock markets lifted Janus’s assets under
management and contributed to a third-quarter profit that
quadrupled from a year earlier.  “They beat on the earnings side, but the fund flow story
is more important when thinking about growth prospects,”
 Michael Kim , an analyst with Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP in
New York, said in a telephone interview.  Net income rose to $32.5 million, or 18 cents a share, from
$8.2 million, or 5 cents, in the third quarter of 2009, when
legal settlements and severance payments reduced profit, the
company said. Kim expected Janus to earn 17 cents a share,
higher than the 16-cent average estimate of 10 analysts  surveyed 
by Bloomberg.  Bond Funds  Janus declined 68 cents to $10.85 at 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading, after falling as much as 9.3
percent earlier in the day. It has lost 19 percent this year,
while the 15-member Standard & Poor’s  index  of asset managers
and custody banks is little changed.  Clients deposited a net $1 billion to the firm’s fixed-
income funds.  Doug Sipkin , an analyst at Ticonderoga Securities, said in
a research note today the quarter “will be viewed as mildly
disappointing” because he expected better fund flows.  Janus, which invests about 90 percent of assets in
equities, benefited as the Standard & Poor’s  500 Index  gained
8.8 percent last month, the best September since 1939. Market
performance lifted asset under management by 9.2 percent from
the previous quarter.  The firm paid out $13.6 million in client reimbursements
related to “two significant fund administrative errors in the
third quarter,” the company said in the statement.  Revenue Rises  “Errors of the this magnitude are completely unacceptable
to me,” Chief Executive Officer  Richard M. Weil , said during a
conference call with analysts. “We must have processes and
controls that catch the inevitable human errors.”  Weil said a “tax reversal” lifted results by 5 cents a
share.  Revenue increased 7.1 percent from a year earlier to $243.8
million, driven by a 9.1 percent jump in investment management
fees, reflecting higher assets. Assets rose 5.9 percent from a
year earlier, to $160.8 billion.  Expenses fell 5.7 percent to $186.7 million, mainly because
of an 11 percent drop in employee compensation and benefits.  BlackRock Inc ., the world’s largest money manager, said
yesterday third-quarter net income rose 74 percent to $551
million after the acquisition of Barclays Global Investors more
than doubled the assets it manages for investors.  Janus recorded a $20.5 million expense in the third quarter
of 2009 for a legal settlement and a $12.1 million loss to cover
the severance payment of former Chief Executive Officer  Gary Black , who quit in July 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Condon  in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net .
JNS US <Equity> CN 