-- Japan Bonds Post Weekly Loss as Fed Comments Limit Pressure on BOJ to Ease
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2010-10-22T07:55:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/japan-s-bonds-may-extend-weekly-drop-on-bets-yen-gains-may-pause-on-g-20.html
Japanese bonds completed a second
weekly loss as U.S. policy makers mulled whether another round
of debt purchases was necessary, reducing pressure on the Bank
of Japan to ease monetary policy further.  Ten-year  yields  climbed to the highest in two weeks as
stocks advanced before a report next week forecast to show U.S.
existing home sales increased last month. Federal Reserve policy
makers said this week more Treasury purchases may not be needed.
The BOJ next meets on Oct. 28.  “I don’t expect new action by the BOJ this time as I see
no new signs of danger looming,” said  Junichi Makino , a senior
economist at Daiwa Institute of Research Ltd. in Tokyo. “It’s
not the time to keep buying bonds.”  The yield on the 0.8 percent bond due September 2020 rose
half a basis point to 0.89 percent as of 4:51 p.m. in Tokyo at
Japan Bond Trading Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt
broker. The price fell 0.45 yen to 99.181 yen. The yield has
risen 1.5 basis points this week.  Ten-year yields earlier increased to 0.9 percent, matching
the highest since Oct. 8. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Ten-year bond futures for December delivery declined 0.14
to 143.46 at the afternoon close on the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  The BOJ on Oct. 5 cut its overnight call rate target to a
range of zero to 0.1 percent, the lowest level since 2006, from
0.1 percent. Policy makers said they would set up a 5 trillion
yen ($61.5 billion) fund to buy government bonds and other
assets, expanding the balance sheet.  Fed Outlook  U.S. existing home sales advanced 3.6 percent to a 4.28
million annual pace in September, according to a Bloomberg News
survey before the Oct. 25 report.  The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  rose 0.5 percent, snapping a
two-day decline.  Losses in Japan’s bonds were limited on speculation yields
near a two-week high attracted buyers.  “Gains in 10-year yields have been snapped at 0.9 percent
a few times, setting up a pattern,” said  Katsutoshi Inadome , a
strategist in Tokyo at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities
Co., a unit of Japan’s largest bank. “Yields are likely to
remain in a tight range until new factors come up.”  The Federal Open Market Committee meets on Nov. 2-3 and is
considering whether to increase government debt purchases to
spur growth and keep prices in the economy from falling, a
strategy known as quantitative easing.  ‘Hard Case’  Richmond Fed President  Jeffrey Lacker  said Oct. 20 a new
round of quantitative easing “would be a hard case to make,”
while his Philadelphia counterpart  Charles Plosser  said he’s
“less concerned about deflation risks” than some officials.  “Events in early November such as the Fed meeting and the
U.S. mid-term election will be a watershed for bond markets,”
said  Shinji Nomura , chief debt strategist at Nikko Cordial
Securities Inc. in Tokyo. “Investors are poised to buy on dips
rather than pushing up bond prices higher.”  Ten-year yields may rise to 1.2 percent by year-end,
Nikko’s Nomura said. Should his forecast prove accurate,
investors who bought today would make a 2.5 percent loss,
according to Bloomberg data.  Japan’s life insurers will buy government bonds dated 20
years or longer in the fiscal year ending in March, easing the
steepening of the yield curve, RBS Securities Japan Ltd. said.  Insurers tend to boost purchases of Japanese “super-long”
notes and shift to domestic from foreign debt in the second half
of the business year, said  RuiXue Xu , a strategist at the unit
of Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. in Tokyo.  Japan’s three biggest insurers -- Nippon Life Insurance Co.,
Dai-ichi Life Insurance Co. and Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Co.
-- this month said they plan to buy Japanese bonds.  “It’s unlikely the yield curve will steepen further,” Xu
said. “It wouldn’t be surprising if relatively cheap super-long
bonds will correct, supported by demand from life insurers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 