-- Japan Lawmakers Seek Diet Resolution on Claim to Disputed Isles
-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2010-10-21T04:43:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/japan-lawmakers-seek-diet-resolution-on-claim-to-disputed-isles.html
A group of ruling-party and
opposition Japanese lawmakers plans to submit a Diet resolution
re-asserting the country’s claim over uninhabited islands at the
center of a dispute with China that has soured relations.  Ruling  Democratic Party of Japan  legislator  Kazuhiro Haraguchi  said the 50-member group also seeks to promote
legislation to help local fishermen and residents near the
islands in the East China Sea. The move comes as both countries
are seeking to repair ties frayed after a Chinese fishing
trawler collided with two Japanese Coast Guard boats in the area.  “We must constantly work hard to protect our sovereignty
and national interests,” said Haraguchi, a former internal
affairs minister, in an Oct. 19 interview. “We want to confirm
previous agreements with China without falling into narrow-
minded nationalism.” The group seeks to submit the resolution
before the parliament session ends on Dec. 3, he said.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  is aiming to mend ties with
Japan’s biggest trading partner even as China restricts supplies
of rare earth minerals used in Toyota Motor Corp.’s hybrid cars.
Kan met with Chinese Premier on Oct. 4 in Brussels and the
countries are working to arrange another meeting at this month’s
summit of Asian leaders in Hanoi.  Rival Claims  The collision reignited the dispute over the islands, known
as Senkaku in Japanese and Diaoyu in Chinese, and sparked
protests in both countries last weekend. As many as 3,000 people
rallied in Tokyo against China while demonstrators in China’s
Sichuan Province forced the early closure of one Japanese store
and smashed windows in another.  Sovereignty over the area near the islands would enable the
holder rights to undersea natural gas and oil reserves. China
and Japan have yet to put into effect a 2008 agreement to
jointly develop the gas fields.  Takeshi Iwaya, a  Liberal Democratic Party  lawmaker who co-
chairs the group with Haraguchi, said there’s no difference
between the ruling or opposition parties when it comes to
diplomacy and security.  “We’d like to play a role to harmonize various parties’
steps,” Iwaya said on Oct. 19. “Japanese interest in
territorial issues has been raised whether one likes it or
not.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sachiko Sakamaki  in Tokyo at 
 Ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net ;
 Takashi Hirokawa  in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  