-- Japan’s Toxic Cocktail Fails U.S. Taste Test: Caroline Baum
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2010-10-21T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/japan-s-toxic-cocktail-fails-u-s-taste-test-caroline-baum.html
Japan is an old country, and I’m not
talking about the place.  Twenty percent of the population is 65 or older, putting
Japan in first place, in a tie with Italy, in the geriatric
country competition, according to the  Stanford Center on
Longevity .  The average number of births per woman has been below the
replacement rate of 2.1 births per woman for 40 years. At the
same time, Japan boasts the highest life expectancy of any
country: 82 years.  Put it all together, along with a reluctance to address
financial-sector insolvency and industry inefficiency, and you
get a toxic mix. A shrinking workforce must support a growing
number of retirees, auguring slower economic growth and reduced
living standards.  Deflation, in other words, isn’t the worst of Japan’s
problems. It’s a symptom, not a cause, of two decades of post-
bubble economic malaise.  In the 20 years since the  Nikkei 225  Stock Index peaked
just shy of 39,000, Japan’s consumer price index has averaged
0.5 percent. That’s 0.5 percent with a plus sign in front of it.
In the last 10 years, the  CPI  has declined at an average 0.3
percent rate. Even the most discerning shopper can’t
differentiate between the two.  Avoidance Model  And yet, Japan is the model, albeit an avoidance model, for
the U.S. Federal Reserve. In contemplating another round of
quantitative easing, U.S. policy makers are determined to ensure
that Japan’s deflation  doesn’t happen here .  Is the U.S. deflation prone? Almost five years after the
 housing bubble  burst and almost three years after the U.S.
economy slipped into recession, there is no deflation in the
data. All that economic slack Fed officials point to -- an
 unemployment rate  of 9.6 percent and industry  utilization rates 
at recession-like levels -- and a contraction in credit, and
still there’s no sign of falling economy-wide prices. (The Fed
claims that the CPI has an upward bias, which is why it targets
an inflation rate of 1.5 percent to 2 percent instead of zero
and calls it price stability.)  Deflation, if confined to gently falling prices and not a
Great-Depression-like downward spiral, isn’t the scourge Fed
officials make it out to be. Just ask Japanese consumers.  In an Oct. 15  column , the Financial Times’  Gillian Tett 
cites the results of a Bank of Japan survey of the public’s
attitude toward deflation. Forty-four percent said deflation was
favorable; 35 percent were neutral on falling prices; and 21
percent gave it the thumbs down.  Deflation’s Upside  In a country for old men (and women), consumers want their
yen to go a long way, especially with  wages  declining for the
better part of the last decade.  Of course, deflation is bad for debtors, who have to repay
their loans in yen or dollars that have appreciated in value.
Historically Japan has been a nation of savers, even as the
Japanese government racked up debt equal to 200 percent of gross
domestic product from umpteen (who can keep track?) fiscal
stimulus initiatives.  “It’s as if the Obama administration had done a lot of
fiscal stimulus programs and no TARP,” says  Carl Weinberg ,
chief economist at High Frequency Economics in Valhalla, New
York, referring to the U.S. Treasury’s Troubled Asset Relief
Program to recapitalize the banks.  Unlike Japan, the U.S. realized it had to fix Wall Street
(the banks) in order to fix Main Street (get credit flowing).
Both streets are still in need of road repair.  Compare and Contrast  There are a lot of other ways in which the U.S. isn’t
Japan. As a young nation, our culture is oriented toward
individuality, not conformity. Our economy and job growth rely
on entrepreneurship, not industrial policy.  As a nation, we aren’t content to sit still, to endure
years of sub-par growth. We can’t relax with persistently high
 unemployment , the kind from which Europe suffers. We demand that
our government “do something” even though we’re not sure
exactly what we want the government to do. (Provide benefits and
cut taxes?)  To be sure, the U.S. has its share of problems, including
an aging population (12 percent is 65 and older, according to
the Stanford Longevity Center), trillion-dollar  deficits ,
unsustainable entitlement programs for the sick and elderly and
a political class that only thinks as far as the next election.  Japan’s deflation is the outgrowth of two decades of
economic malaise, which in turn is the result of burst property
and equity bubbles, the devastating effect it had on bank
balance sheets and the government’s tendency to prop up zombie
banks and zombie companies.  If the Fed wants to draw parallels between Japan and the
U.S., which prefers its bubbles one at a time, I’d suggest an
alternative to the deflation route. Both countries offer prima
facie evidence of the need for bubble avoidance. Central
bankers’ protestations to the contrary, the damage from leaning
into them is a lot less than cleaning up afterward.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  