-- Japanese Stock Futures, Australian Index Advance on U.S. Earnings, Economy
-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 2010-10-21T23:33:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/japanese-stock-futures-australian-index-advance-on-u-s-earnings-economy.html
Japanese  stock   futures  and
Australian shares gained as higher-than-estimated U.S. company
earnings and a drop in jobless claims boosted confidence in a
global economic recovery.  American depositary receipts of  Canon Inc. , a Japanese
camera maker that gets about 80 percent of its revenue overseas,
climbed 1 percent from the closing share price in Tokyo. Those
of Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s largest carmaker, advanced
0.5 percent. Telstra Corp., Australia’s largest telephone
company, rose 0.4 percent today in Sydney.  “The improvement in company earnings is reducing the
number of U.S. jobless claims,” said  Juichi Wako , a senior
strategist at Tokyo-based Nomura Holdings Inc. “Investors don’t
expect jobless claims to recover, but at least they don’t have
to worry about a deterioration.”  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  expiring in
December closed at 9,395 in Chicago yesterday, compared with
9,370 in Singapore. They were bid in the pre-market at 9,390 in
Osaka, Japan, at 8:05 a.m. local time. Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200
Index  rose 0.2 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index
increased 0.4 percent in Wellington.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  were little
changed. The index advanced 0.2 percent yesterday in New York as
better-than-estimated earnings from EBay Inc. to  McDonald’s Corp. 
and the drop in jobless claims helped offset a slump in
financial companies amid speculation that banks face more losses
from bad mortgages.  U.S. Employment, Economy  Initial jobless  claims  fell by 23,000 to 452,000 last week,
Labor Department figures showed yesterday in Washington. The
total number of people receiving unemployment insurance fell,
while those getting extended payments rose.  Separately, the gauge of the U.S. economy’s prospects rose
in September for a third month, signaling the recovery will
extend into 2011. The New York-based Conference Board’s index of
leading economic indicators climbed 0.3 percent, matching the
median forecast of 57 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  After the close of regular New York trading, American
Express Co., the biggest credit-card issuer by purchases, said
third-quarter profit jumped 70 percent, while Amazon.com Inc.,
the largest online retailer, forecast fourth-quarter operating
income that fell short of analysts’ estimates.  The yen depreciated to as low as 81.37 against the dollar
today in Tokyo, compared with 81.15 at the close of stock
trading yesterday. Against the euro, Japan’s currency weakened
to 113.26 from 112.92. A weaker yen boosts overseas income at
Japanese companies when converted into their home currency.  G-20 Meeting  Global finance ministers are planning to say members will
refrain from “competitive undervaluation” of currencies to
soothe trade tensions, said an official from a G-20 country,
citing a draft statement and speaking on condition of anonymity.
Officials from the Group of Twenty countries are meeting this
week in South Korea.  Crude oil for December delivery fell 2.4 percent to settle
at $80.56 a barrel in New York yesterday, as China’s oil
processing grew the least in 18 months after government measures
to cool the economy reduced fuel consumption, and as the dollar
rebounded against the euro. The  London Metal Exchange Index  of
six metals including aluminum and copper slumped 0.4 percent
yesterday.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  has increased 7.7 percent in
2010, compared with gains of 5.8 percent by the  S&P 500  and 5.4
percent by the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index . Stocks in the Asian
benchmark are valued at 14.2 times estimated  earnings , compared
with 14 times for the S&P 500 and 12.3 times for the Stoxx 600.  In China, Cnooc Ltd., the country’s largest offshore oil
producer, and Ghana National Petroleum Corp. made a $5-billion
bid to buy Kosmos Energy LLC’s assets in the West African
country, according to three people with knowledge of the matter.  Ping An Insurance (Group) Co., China’s second-largest
insurer, is diversifying into property and private equity and
increasing its holdings in Chinese stocks to boost investment
performance after its worst year since 2005.  To contact the reporters for this story:
 Norie Kuboyama  in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
 Toshiro Hasegawa  in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net . 