-- China May Be Drilling in East China Sea Near Disputed Islands, Japan Says
-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i   a n d   J o h n   D u c e
-- 2010-10-21T04:57:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/japan-says-china-may-be-drilling-in-east-china-sea-near-disputed-islands.html
Japan said China, the world’s
biggest energy consumer, may be drilling in an offshore gas
field near a group of disputed islands in the East China Sea.  “There’s a possibility China is drilling as there’s been
equipment transported that hadn’t been there before,” Foreign
Minister  Seiji Maehara  said at the lower house national security
committee meeting in Tokyo today. “We cannot definitively say,
so we’re requesting China to check and analyze it while we will
also analyze to confirm it.”  Tensions have heightened since last month when a Chinese
trawler collided with two Japanese Coast Guard boats near the
islands, known as Senkaku in Japan and Diaoyu in China. Last
weekend, demonstrators in the Chinese province of Sichuan forced
the early closure of an Isetan Mitsukoshi Holdings Ltd. store
and smashed windows at an Ito-Yokado supermarket.  China’s foreign ministry had no immediate comment on the
allegation.  Jiang Yongzhi , a Beijing-based spokesman for Cnooc
Ltd., the country’s biggest offshore energy explorer, declined
to comment.  Japan said earlier this year it will bring the dispute with
China over developing the Chunxiao gas field to an international
maritime tribunal. Asia’s two biggest economies have failed to
implement an agreement signed in June 2008 to jointly develop
the field, known as Shirakaba in Japan.  China and Japan are working on arranging a summit between
Prime Minister Naoto Kan and Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao at this
month’s meeting of Asian leaders in Hanoi.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sachiko Sakamaki  in Tokyo at 
 ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net ;
 John Duce  in Hong Kong at 
 Jduce1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 