-- Thomas's Wife Removes Name From Health-Care Memo
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2010-10-21T20:05:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/justice-thomas-s-wife-removes-her-name-from-memo-opposing-health-care-law.html
Justice  Clarence Thomas ’s wife asked
to have her name removed from a memo that called President
 Barack Obama ’s health-care overhaul “unconstitutional,” as she
distanced herself from an issue that may come before the  U.S.
Supreme Court .  Virginia Thomas ’s name appeared on the memo by mistake,
according to a statement issued by  Liberty Central , the
nonprofit group she founded to support the Tea Party movement.
The group that issued the memo has removed Thomas’s name,
Liberty Central Chief Operating Officer Sarah Field said in the
statement.  “Liberty Central assiduously avoids taking a position on
the constitutionality of this, and other issues, and will
continue to do so in the future,” Field said.  Thomas was in the news earlier this week after she
telephoned  Anita Hill , the woman whose sexual harassment
allegations almost derailed Clarence Thomas’s 1991 high court
nomination, and asked for an apology.  Liberty Central today also changed the attribution of a
health-care position paper on its website and then  removed  it
entirely. A “corrected” version of the article had been
attributed to former New York Lieutenant Governor  Betsy McCaughey . It said the Constitution “does not permit” one
aspect of the law. Liberty Central said it removed the article
entirely “to eliminate any confusion or misinterpretation.”  The incidents underscore the balance Thomas may have to
strike as she increases her political activism, touching on
topics the Supreme Court could consider.  Appearance Problem  While judicial conflict-of-interest rules don’t cover her,
she could undercut the court’s credibility by commenting on
legal issues, said  Stephen Gillers , a legal ethics specialist
who teaches at New York University School of Law.  “Mrs. Thomas will surely cause concern if she takes a
strong public position on legal issues that are likely to come
before her husband,” Gillers said. “The public may believe
that he cannot help but be influenced by her vocal and publicly
expressed position.”  Even so, Gillers said, Justice Thomas would have no duty to
step aside from a health-care case.  Lawsuits challenging the health-care law are moving toward
the Supreme Court. Suits filed in Virginia, Florida and Michigan
claim the measure exceeds Congress’s constitutional authority.  Cutting Spending  The  memo  that included Virginia Thomas’s name, along with
those of 29 other small-government activists, calls on Congress
to take 10 steps to cut spending. In advocating repeal of the
health-care law, the memo states that “a clear majority of the
American people have made it clear that they oppose this
unconstitutional law that diminishes the quality of health care
while increasing its cost.”  Virginia Thomas “did not review the memo,” Field said.
“It was reviewed by staff who mistakenly signed off with her
name on it.”  The memo, which appears on the website of the American
Spectator magazine, was put together by the Conservative Action
Project, an informal group of activists that meets on a regular
basis to discuss policy issues.  The memo says that a repeal would “save taxpayers over $1
trillion.” The Congressional Budget Office has said the measure
will cost $940 billion while more than offsetting that amount
through tax increases and spending cuts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 