-- Kellogg Lowers Forecast Amid Weakening Cereal Business, More Competition
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e   a n d   B u r t   H e l m
-- 2010-10-21T20:21:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/kellogg-lowers-forecast-amid-weakening-cereal-business-more-competition.html
Kellogg Co. , the largest U.S. maker
of breakfast cereal, lowered its profit forecast for the year,
citing slumping demand for cereal and heightened competition.  Per-share earnings, excluding some items, will climb 4
percent to 5 percent, the Battle Creek, Michigan-based company
said in a statement today. That compared with a previous
forecast of 8 percent to 10 percent. This is the second time
Kellogg has cut its profit forecast this year.  Chief Executive Officer  David Mackay  said the cereal maker
has faced a “challenging year” after recalling 28 million
boxes of cereal in June. Kellogg, whose brands include Froot
Loops and Apple Jacks, also is coping with escalating
competition from Ralcorp Holdings Inc., which makes Post cereal,
and Cheerios-maker General Mills Inc.  “It is unacceptable to have to lower their own bar twice
in three months,”  David Kolpak , who helps Cleveland-based
Victory Capital Management manage $42 billion, said in a
telephone interview. “Somebody ought to pay for this.” His
firm’s holdings include Kellogg stock.  The  shares  fell 27 cents to $49.75 at 4 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. They have dropped 6.5 percent
this year, compared with a 5.8 percent increase in the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index.  The company also said sales will decline 4 percent in the
third quarter, or 2 percent when excluding the impact of
foreign-currency translation. Sales excluding currency effects
may fall about 1 percent this year.  Product Recall  Four months ago, Kellogg began a product recall due to what
the company called an “uncharacteristic” flavor and smell in
packages of brands including Corn Pops and Froot Loops. The
move, which triggered a 13 percent drop in North American cereal
sales in the second quarter, has had a “lingering impact” on
results, the company said. Kellogg is scheduled to report
earnings Nov. 2.  About one-fourth of Kellogg’s total sales come from North
American cereal.  Results  have fallen short of analysts’
estimates in two of the past three quarters, after exceeding
them for seven quarters in a row.  “I’m disappointed but not surprised,” said  Walter Todd ,
co-chief investment officer at Greenwood Capital, which owns
about 50,000 shares of Kellogg. Todd said he has reduced his
position in the company by 50 percent over the past six months
and may sell more.  Total sales fell about 2 percent last year as budget-wary
consumers bought more private-label products during the economic
slump and the company eliminated 30 percent of its North
American product line to focus on more profitable items.
Kellogg’s other brands include Pop-Tarts, Eggo waffles and
Nutri-Grain bars.  Commodity Costs  The foodmaker also is dealing with rising commodity costs
as prices for ingredients such as corn and sugar surge. Sugar
prices climbed to their highest price in eight months yesterday
on forecasts for a smaller cane crop in Brazil, the world’s
largest producer. Before today, corn surged 60 percent since the
end of May, reaching a two-year high last week, as adverse
weather reduced U.S. production.  Minneapolis-based General Mills is raising prices on about
one-quarter of its cereal products to cope with “increasing
input costs,” according to spokeswoman  Kirstie Foster . Kellogg
spokeswoman  Kris Charles  said today the company hasn’t yet
raised prices on cereal or other products, and declined to
comment on future moves.  Analyst  Andrew Lazar  of Barclays Capital said in a note to
clients today that General Mills’ price increase “will have
many willing followers.”  Alexia Howard , a New York-based
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, said in an Oct. 18 report to
clients that Kellogg’s cost of goods sold will increase 4.2
percent next year, up from an earlier estimate of 3.6 percent.  -- Editors:  Julie Alnwick ,  Robin Ajello   To contact the reporters on this story:
 Burt Helm  in New York at 
 Bhelm3@bloomberg.net 
 Matthew Boyle  in New York at 
 Mboyle20@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  