-- Kenya Will Start Nairobi-Eldoret Fuel Pipeline by June
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2010-10-21T10:52:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/kenya-plans-to-start-operating-nairobi-eldoret-fuel-pipeline-by-june-2011.html
Kenya will start operating a new
325-kilometer (202-mile) fuel pipeline from Nairobi, the
capital, to the western town of Eldoret by June, said  Selest Kilinda , managing director of the state-owned  Kenya Pipeline Co.   Demand for energy to run businesses and vehicles is
increasing in East Africa as economic growth accelerates and
amid a lack of infrastructure to supply fuels, Kilinda said in
an interview today in Nairobi.  Trucks carrying gasoline from the ports of Mombasa in Kenya
and Tanzania’s city of Dar es Salaam encounter poor roads as
they travel to countries in the region including Uganda,
Burundi, Rwanda, southern Sudan and the Democratic Republic of
Congo, he said.  "With the second pipeline, we can ship more using the
safest, most cost-effective and environmentally friendly means,"
Kilinda said.  The 14-inch pipeline cost about $200 million to build and
will initially have the capacity to carry 390,000 liters
(103,027 gallons) per hour, Kilinda said. It runs alongside a
more than 30-year-old pipeline that links Mombasa to Nakuru in
southwestern Kenya, he said.  The new pipeline may be upgraded to 600,000 liters per hour
in a second phase that would require the construction of two
more pumping stations, he said.  Uganda Pipeline  A separate development by the Ugandan and Kenyan
governments to extend a pipeline from Eldoret to Kampala, the
capital of neighboring Uganda, has been held up, he said.  The plan is "on hold until we know what the Ugandan
government wants to do with their oil and the size of the
refinery they’ll build," Kilinda said.  The project may only be viable if Uganda builds a refinery
with the capacity to process enough oil to export through a
“reverse flow” pipeline to Kenya, he said.  Tamoil East Africa Ltd., a unit of Libya’s overseas
refiner, has proposed the reverse flow system and is awaiting
approval on the plan, Gamal Bouargob, the project engineer, said
March 31. Uganda is set to become an oil producer when Tullow
Oil Plc begins production at the Kasamene field next year.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  