-- Kenyan Tea Strike Enters a Fourth Day; Workers Plan to Petition President
-- B y   C o n s o l a t a h   L u c a s
-- 2010-10-21T09:35:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/kenyan-tea-strike-enters-a-fourth-day-workers-plan-to-petition-president.html
Kenyan  tea-industry workers may
petition the East African nation’s president and prime minister
over a dispute about the use of plucking machines to harvest the
crop, a labor-union official said.  The Kenya Plantation and Agricultural Workers Union plans
to hold demonstrations in Nairobi, the capital, and Mombasa,
site of the world’s biggest black-tea auction, from Oct. 25
unless their demands that companies stop using the machines are
met, Meshack Khisa, director of industrial relations at the
union, said today.  “We will petition the office of the prime minister and
president to intervene,” he said in a phone interview from
Kericho, 262 kilometers (163 miles) northwest of Nairobi. “We
also plan to picket at the tea-auction offices in Mombasa.”  Kenya is the world’s biggest exporter of black tea.
Production may increase by 11 percent to 350 million kilograms
(770 million pounds) this year, the Kenya Tea Board said last
month. Agriculture accounts for a quarter of gross domestic
product in Kenya, East Africa’s biggest economy.  The Kenya Tea Growers Association said a court injunction
blocked the strike and called on employees to return to work. A
court will decide on Oct. 26 whether tea producers can continue
using plucking machines, Charles Kipng’ok, the chairman of the
association, said in a phone interview today.  Manual Laborers  The strike involves an estimated 50,000 manual laborers in
tea plantations in the western Rift Valley and is aimed at
protecting the livelihoods of thousands of Kenyan families who
will be affected if machines continue to be used, Khisa said.
There are about 80,000 pickers in Kenya, he said.  “About three-quarters of plucking is already being done by
machines” on estates in Kericho, Nandi Hills, Sotik and Kissi,
Khisa said.  “We have tried to lobby industry representatives, but they
are quite adamant to go on with the tea-plucking machines,”
Khisa said. “They say they are cutting costs and economical. We
are trying to protect jobs.”  Industry and employee representatives will hold talks today
led by the Labor Ministry, Issa Wafula, assistant secretary-
general of KPAWU, said in a separate interview.  African tea prices rose for a third week, increasing to an
average of $2.57 a kilogram (2.2 pounds) from $2.41 last week,
Tea Brokers East Africa Ltd. said in an e-mailed statement on
Oct. 19. Weekly auctions are held in Mombasa, on Kenya’s
Atlantic coastline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Consolatah Lucas  in Mombasa at 
 clucas14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 