-- Keynes’s Arts Council Suffers Rebuke in Budget Cuts: Commentary
-- B y   N o r m a n   L e b r e c h t
-- 2010-10-21T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/keynes-s-bloated-arts-council-gets-whacked-in-u-k-cuts-norman-lebrecht.html
The U.K.’s visual-arts sector got
off lightly in Chancellor  George Osborne ’s spending review while
the performing arts got hammered. That’s the headline
assessment, and the figures seem to bear it out --superficially,
at least.  The real impact is more diverse and interesting, in some
instances devastating.  Spending on national galleries and museums will be trimmed
15 percent over four years which, at about 4 percent a year, is
broadly manageable and won’t require the shutdown, layoffs and
exhibition cancellations that would have been necessitated by a
predicted 30 percent cut.  Museums will continue to offer free admission, an
enlightened policy of the former Labour Party government that
draws more people each year to galleries than to professional
soccer, the national sport.  By stark contrast,  Arts Council England  (ACE), which in
2010-11 is distributing 449 million pounds ($708 million) in
Treasury revenue to thousands of performing and creative bodies,
will take about a 100 million pound average hit every year over
four years. At the end of the four-year period, the council will
receive a grant of 350 million pounds in real terms, amounting
to a 29.6 percent cut in its subsidy.  The ACE has been told to protect regularly funded
“frontline” companies -- such as the  Royal Opera House 
(getting 28.3 million pounds) and the  National Theatre  (19.6
million pounds) -- within a 15 percent reduction. What this
means is limited damage. The ROH and  English National Opera 
(17.9 million pounds) might have to drop new productions by one
or two per season. That’s no big deal.  Strong Rebuke  The cuts will bite the smaller fry. The ACE has regular
funding arrangements with 880 ensembles and awards informal
grants to some 4,000 more. Its freedom to foster new ventures
has been stunted. It also was ordered to halve administration
costs -- a humiliating rebuke after a recent slimming took 21
percent off structural costs.  Still, the ACE is a byword for bloating its bureaucracy to
supervise the rules it keeps inventing. Even as Osborne’s axe
was falling, the council still was advertising online for a
Governance Officer in London and a Relationship Manager, Digital
and Creative Economy, in Yorkshire, a job whose connection to
making art is oblique, to say the least.  The Arts Council, created in 1945 by the economist  John Maynard Keynes  to nurture cultural renewal in a war-devastated
economy, has suffered the greatest reversal in its history.  Forgan’s Failure  The chairwoman,  Liz Forgan , ex-head of Guardian Media Group
Plc and a Labour loyalist, adopted a muted role in recent
months, having failed to sway Conservative and Liberal Democrat
opinion toward her paper-driven empire.  A price needs to be paid.  When the ACE meets next week to discuss the allocation of
cuts to clients around the country, initially a flat cut of 10
percent, both chair and chief executive should offer their
resignations for presiding over the worst reversal in U.K.
history of state funding for the arts.  Resignation is the honorable course of action in defeat --
and this has been a catastrophic debacle for the ACE, a public
declaration of no-confidence.  By contrast, museums, from the moment the coalition
government was formed, mobilized business people on their boards
who donate to the coalition parties to make their case at the
highest level.  MacGregor’s Profile  Neil MacGregor , director of the  British Museum , was on BBC
Radio every week with “A History of the World in 100 Objects,”
drawing 10 million downloads. The profile of museums never has
been higher and the government prudently backed off.  Inevitably, all is not as it seems. While London-based
“national” galleries such as the BM, the  V&A  and the  Tate  have
been saved from radical surgery, regional museums like Oxford’s
 Ashmolean  and the  Ulster Museum of Belfast  are in jeopardy.
Schisms also have appeared in the museum world between the BM’s
MacGregor and Tate’s  Nicholas Serota  as to whether funding
should focus on tradition or on contemporary art -- an argument
that will grow more rancorous over the next four years of
tightened belts.  In performing arts, for example, the outstanding  City of
Birmingham Symphony Orchestra  under the young conductor  Andris Nelsons , will suffer a double-whammy cut both on its ACE grant
and on money from the city council. Birmingham’s touring opera
company will struggle to survive. The promises of politicians
will sound emptier in the provinces than in London.  Chance for Reform  Yet there is room for maneuver. Although the government has
ring-fenced funding for the 2012  Olympic Games , a parallel
Cultural Olympiad, headed by the ROH’s Chief Executive  Tony Hall , can and should be cut with impunity and the money
redistributed elsewhere.  Changes at the Arts Council and the removal of its top
brass will abolish a screed of politically correct objectives
and free up new leaders to pursue a Keynesian agenda of renewal.  Cooperation with the British Broadcasting Corporation on
cultural ventures -- job-protecting anathema in the past -- soon
could become a reality. Amid the cries of pain across British
arts, there are audible sighs of relief at the limits of the
damage and the chance for reform.  ( Norman Lebrecht  is a critic for Muse, the arts and culture
section of Bloomberg News. His book, “Why Mahler?,” is newly
published by Pantheon. The  opinions  expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Norman Lebrecht  in London at  norman@normanlebrecht.com .
 Norman@normanlebrecht.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 