-- King Pressured to Honor `Deal' as Cameron Delivers Austerity
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2010-10-21T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/king-pressured-to-honor-boe-deal-after-cameron-delivers-austerity-drive.html
Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King 
is under pressure to show just how far he’s willing to go to
support Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s once-in-a-generation
austerity drive.  Cameron, 44, has broken with the convention established by
the previous Labour government and publicly put the onus on the
Bank of England to shore up Britain’s economy. Finance minister
 George Osborne , 39, said as recently as yesterday that the
central bank can “deploy monetary policy tools” to offset the
budget squeeze he unveiled this week to cut half a million jobs.  That puts the spotlight on King, 62, as he presides over a
running argument at the central bank on whether to expand  bond
purchases . With the governor having spent the past year lobbying
Cameron to cut the deficit, he must now balance the government’s
expectation for payback with the need to preserve the
independence given to the bank by  Gordon Brown  in 1997.  “Mervyn basically pushed them toward a tighter fiscal
consolidation,” said  Rachel Lomax , a former Treasury official
who served under King as Bank of England deputy governor from
2003 to 2008 and is now a director at HSBC Holdings Plc. “I’m
sure he hasn’t said anything explicitly, but implicitly the
promise is if it gets too rough we’ll do some more quantitative
easing. That’s what I think the deal is.”  While Brown, 59, seldom mentioned monetary policy both as
prime minister and in the preceding decade as finance minister,
the coalition government has kept up a running commentary.
Cameron said Oct. 11 that the central bank was best-placed to
promote economic growth, and Business Secretary  Vince Cable  said
Sept. 20 that an interest-rate increase “would be a problem.”  Monetary Activist  “I’ve always been, if you like, a fiscal conservative but
a monetary activist,” Cameron said this month.  King said in early 2008 that it would be “foolish” for
politicians to try to influence monetary policy. The financial
crisis has nevertheless reshaped the relationship between the
central bank, based in London’s eastern financial district, and
the Treasury in Westminster.  At stake is the independence that King says helped foster
the longest streak of uninterrupted economic growth in two
centuries and low  inflation  in the decade before the crisis hit.  “It doesn’t mean that the BOE has become the East End
branch of the Treasury,” said  Neil Mackinnon , an economist at
VTB Capital Inc. and a former Treasury official. “But the
notion of strict independence has probably been eroded by the
extraordinary developments that we’ve seen arising from the
economic and financial crisis.”  Blurred Lines?  The bank has legal independence on setting monetary policy,
though its asset program means its policies are now intertwined
with government funding. The Bank of England’s 200 billion
pounds ($315 billion) in bond purchases since March 2009 means
it now controls around one fifth of U.K. gilts, making it the
biggest single holder. The bank has also pledged to coordinate
its market activities with the Treasury’s bond agency.  “The lines get very blurred,”  George Magnus , senior
economic adviser at UBS AG in London, said in an interview. “If
the bank were ever in a position where it wanted to raise
interest rates, because of inflation or the economy recovering,
then the Treasury may actually have a view about that in terms
of debt service costs. It becomes very fuzzy.”  Cameron’s comments coincide with a crossroads in central
bank policy as it moves closer to buying more bonds. Minutes of
the Oct. 7 meeting, published Oct. 20, showed “some” officials
on the nine-member Monetary Policy Committee think it’s more
likely that further stimulus “would become necessary.”  Adam Posen  voted to expand purchases, while  Andrew Sentance  kept up
his campaign for an interest-rate increase.  The Bank of England’s  benchmark  is currently at a record
low of 0.5 percent.  Subdued Gauges  With King signaling this week that “extremely subdued”
inflation gauges might make more bond-buying necessary and
government ministers hinting the economy needs aid, the bank may
face a challenge in claiming it is acting alone if officials act
at their next decision on Nov. 4.  Any move would come at a time when inflation has exceeded
the government’s 3 percent upper limit for seven months.  Robin Marshall , an economist at Smith and Williamson Investment
Management in London, says that King seems less preoccupied by
hitting the 2 percent inflation target given him by Brown than
nursing growth during the Conservative-led government’s
austerity drive.  “He’s now interpreting his mandate more broadly,”
Marshall told  Andrea Catherwood  on Bloomberg Television. “It’s
not just an inflation target, he sees it as sustaining demand
management as well, sustaining demand if fiscal policy is going
to be locked up over the next five years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jennifer Ryan  in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  