-- KKR Hiring Nine Goldman Sachs Traders for Hedge Fund
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 2010-10-21T20:06:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/kkr-is-set-to-hire-nine-goldman-traders-for-hedge-fund-focused-on-equities.html
KKR & Co.  is poised to start a unit
to invest in stocks with a cadre of proprietary traders from
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , after new financial regulations
spurred the investment bank to shed a team that made bets with
the company’s capital.  KKR, founded by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , is close
to hiring nine members of Goldman Sachs’s U.S. principal-
strategies team,  Kristi Huller , a spokeswoman for the New York-
based buyout firm, said in an interview.  Bob Howard , who heads
that group, will join KKR as managing director.  “This is part of a strategic build-out of our asset-
management platform,” Kravis and Roberts said today in an e-
mailed statement.  The hirings mark KKR’s first venture into overseeing liquid
equities, an area that may include hedge funds. The firm, along
with larger competitor Blackstone Group LP, is pushing into
businesses outside traditional private equity to boost fees and
appease public shareholders eager for stable profit growth. KKR
competed with investment bank Perella Weinberg Partner LP and
hedge fund Avenue Capital Group, run by  Marc Lasry , to hire the
Goldman Sachs traders.  Goldman Sachs is disbanding the team to comply with new
U.S. rules aimed at curbing risk. A provision of the Dodd-Frank
financial-overhaul act prohibits banks from risking capital by
betting for their own accounts.  Client Business  Howard will report to  William Sonneborn , head of KKR’s
asset-management division, who is expanding the unit beyond its
focus on credit investments. The group currently oversees about
$13 billion, mostly in bank loans and mezzanine loans.  Howard’s group, which is scheduled to join KKR’s New York
office in January, will not function as a proprietary-trading
unit. KKR is scheduled to start raising money for the new
strategy after it builds the necessary systems, according to
a person with knowledge of the firm’s plans.  Huller declined to comment on fundraising plans.  “Our goal has been to add new capabilities and exceptional
talent that allow us to strengthen our product offering and
better service our clients,” Kravis and Roberts said about the
new unit. “Bob and his team will be an ideal fit for that
objective as we’ve been impressed with their investment
experience and performance as well as their ability to manage
risk.”  Shares Rise  KKR rose 42 cents, or 3.7 percent, to $11.80 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Blackstone Group LP,
the largest private equity firm, rose 2.8 percent to $13.75.  Citigroup analyst  William Katz  today raised his price
estimate for KKR to $15 a share from $14, noting that investors
may value the stock at a higher price-to-earnings multiple. Katz
rates the shares ’’buy,’’ according to a note to clients.  David Viniar , Goldman Sachs’s chief financial officer,
confirmed on a conference call earlier this week that the firm
has closed the proprietary trading group.  “Over several decades, Principal Strategies has been a
successful global investing business with a strong performance
record and a culture of disciplined risk management,”  Ed Canaday , a spokesman for New York-based Goldman Sachs, said in
an e-mailed statement today. “We wish Bob and his team every
success in their home.”  Morgan Stanley, the sixth-largest U.S. bank by assets, said
yesterday it agreed to give up control of its FrontPoint
Partners LLC hedge-fund unit to the fund’s managers. New York-
based Morgan Stanley will maintain a minority stake in
FrontPoint.  Going Public  Blackstone’s credit and marketable alternatives business --
including the GSO Capital and fund of hedge-funds unit -- is its
biggest by assets under management. The New York-based firm went
public in June 2007 and has failed to reach its $31-a-share
initial public offering price since then as profits from buyouts
remain elusive.  KKR moved its listing to the U.S. this year after merging
with its publicly traded European fund in 2009. That combination
followed a failed attempt to sell shares in the U.S. in 2007.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cristina Alesci  in New York at 
 Calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Kelly  in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  