-- KKR Is Said to Bid for ING Unit to Add Real Estate Investments
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r
-- 2010-10-21T20:13:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/kkr-is-said-to-plan-bid-for-ing-groep-unit-to-add-real-estate-investments.html
KKR & Co.  is planning an offer for
 ING Groep NV’s  global real estate investment unit as the
private-equity firm diversifies its holdings, according to
people with knowledge of the situation.  Vornado Realty Trust and  Leon Black ’s Apollo Global
Management LLC are also looking at the unit, said the people,
who declined to be identified because the matter is private. A
buyer would have to assume capital commitments ING has made to
its real-estate funds, which managed 71.1 billion euros ($99.1
billion) of  assets  as of June 30.  KKR is seeking to invest in asset management-businesses as
corporate buyouts have shrunk to a fraction of their size during
the boom in mergers and acquisitions. The firm said today it is
close to hiring nine traders from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to
start a unit that will raise money for an equities hedge fund.  ING Real Estate Investment Management, or REIM, has more
than 650 clients and includes ING Clarion in the U.S.  “We’ve announced that we are evaluating the position of
REIM within the bank,” said  Raymond Vermeulen , a spokesman for
Amsterdam-based ING. “We haven’t concluded that process yet.”  A spokesman for New York-based Apollo, a spokeswoman for
New York-based KKR and a spokeswoman for Vornado, also in New
York, declined to comment.  Required Sale  ING, the  biggest Dutch financial services company , agreed
to sell 18.4 billion euros of insurance businesses and its U.S.
online banking unit as a condition for winning the European
Union’s approval for receiving state aid during the global
financial crisis.  As banks sell assets, private-equity firms are working to
build out their asset management divisions. Apollo plans to buy
Citigroup Inc.’s real estate investment business, a move that
may nearly triple the value of its property assets.  Vornado, whose chairman is developer  Steven Roth , is the
third-biggest U.S. REIT by market capitalization, according to
Bloomberg data. The company controls about 34.7 million square
feet of offices in New York and the Washington area, with an
additional 22.7 million of retail property across the U.S.,
according to its website.  The company had cash and marketable securities of $1.1
billion, and $2.4 billion of unused credit, according to its
second-quarter regulatory filing. Vornado bought 9.9 percent of
the common shares of the J.C. Penney Co. department store chain,
it said on Oct. 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cristina Alesci  in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Keehner  in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 