-- NBA Commissioner Stern Says No Measurable Progress Made in Contract Talks
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2010-10-21T20:29:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/nba-commissioner-stern-says-no-measurable-progress-made-in-contract-talks.html
National Basketball Association
Commissioner  David Stern  said the league hasn’t made any
measurable progress in contract negotiations as it looks to cut
player costs by as much as $800 million, or about one-third.  Stern spoke in New York following meetings of the NBA’s
Board of Governors, calling the status of collective bargaining
discussions and both sides’ focus on reaching an agreement
“palpable but not quantifiable.”  “I couldn’t give you any listing numerically or in word
form of progress, but there seems to be a mutual determination
to push and probe and do and discuss,” Stern said at a news
conference. “There’s an increasing understanding on both sides
of what the risk of not making this deal entails.”  A voicemail message left at the office of  Dan Wasserman ,
spokesman for the National Basketball Players Association,
wasn’t immediately returned.  The current agreement between the league and its players
expires on June 30.  The NBA initially asked the union to reduce player costs by
$750 million to $800 million, though that figure could change
with the league’s revenue, Stern said.  Adam Silver , the league’s deputy commissioner, said the NBA
spends about $2.1 billion annually in player salary and
benefits, according to the Associated Press. The league told the
union that the NBA also needs to make its own cuts in every
major business category, Silver said.  Both Stern and Silver said the league should know whether
there is serious danger of a work stoppage by the time the NBA
holds its All-Star Game on Feb. 20 in Los Angeles.  “We’ve been relatively under the radar, compared at least
to the NFL,” Silver said. “But I think the NFL’s labor
situation will have a direct impact on ours. If they’re out,
that’s going to focus the attention on the potential for us to
be out in spring.”  The National Football League’s labor agreement with its
players’ union expires March 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mason Levinson  in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 