-- New Jersey's $70 Billion Pension Fund Is Negotiating Fee Cut From Managers
-- B y   D u n s t a n   M c N i c h o l
-- 2010-10-21T22:27:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/new-jersey-pension-fund-rises-to-70-2-billion-highest-level-in-two-years.html
New Jersey ’s $70.2 billion pension
fund for teachers and government workers is negotiating
reductions in fees and expenses for private managers after
paying $125 million last year, said  Timothy Walsh , director of
the Division of Investment.  The state is seeking new terms at the same time it’s
proposing to increase the share of its holdings that can be
placed in privately managed assets, such as hedge funds, to 38
percent from 28 percent, according to testimony at a  State
Investment Council  meeting today.  The 13th largest U.S. pension fund, according to its
website, hopes to work out a lower fee structure by year end,
Walsh said in an interview after the meeting.  “We went through a period when general partners were in
great demand,” said Robert Grady, chairman of the council,
which sets policy for the fund. “The pendulum has swung a bit
back to the limited partners. I think it’s perfectly appropriate
and responsible for New Jersey and other states to negotiate the
best terms they can.”  The California Public Employees’ Retirement System, the
biggest public pension in the U.S., negotiated a $50 million cut
in fees from CIM Group LP, a Los Angeles real-estate investment
manager, according to an announcement yesterday.  Management Fees  New Jersey pays most of its private partners 2 percent
management fees and a 20 percent share of gains, state records
show.  The fund had about 14 percent of its assets in privately
managed alternative investments, according to a report presented
to the State Investment Council today. The council voted to
raise the maximum allowable allocation in alternatives to 38
percent from 28 percent.  The pension fund gained 8.3 percent for the fiscal first
quarter ended Sept. 30, according to the director’s report. The
fund’s $70.2 billion value is the highest in two years,
according to state records and the report.  For September, the fund realized investment gains of 4.2
percent. U.S. equities returned 9.4 percent, international
stocks gained 9.3 percent and domestic fixed income was down
0.14 percent, according to the report.  “The world markets could be characterized for September
with two words, ‘nervous ebullience,’” the report said. “On
the two-year anniversary of the start of the world equity and
credit market crash, the S&P 500 had its best September since
1939.”  The state Treasury’s Investment Division manages money for
seven pension plans, which provide benefits to 728,000 working
and retired teachers, police officers and government employees.  Through June 30, 2009, actuaries calculated the pension
system was underfunded by $46 billion. It had 66 percent of the
assets needed to fund promised benefits, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dunstan McNichol  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 dmcnichol@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 