-- New York Stirs Teacher Angst Over Use of Student Test Scores in Ratings
-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 2010-10-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/new-york-city-teachers-union-sues-to-block-release-of-performance-ratings.html
A New York City court battle over
the release of performance reports for public-school teachers
highlights a national debate over judging instructors by their
students’ success on standardized tests.  The  United Federation of Teachers  yesterday asked the New
York Supreme Court to block release of reports that measure
individual instructors’ success in boosting student scores. The
union and the city agreed not to release teachers’ names until
the case is heard, Jesse Levine, a New York City assistant
corporation counsel, said in an interview. News organizations
made freedom-of-information requests to release and publish the
data, which the union says is flawed and unfair.  The Obama administration is pushing to use standardized
test scores to evaluate teachers, an effort being fought by
their unions. The public disclosure of such information now
seems inevitable, said  Kati Haycock , president of the Education
Trust, a nonpartisan research and advocacy group in Washington.  “It would be one thing if teacher differences were minor -
- they’re not,” Haycock said in a telephone interview. “They
are huge. It would be irresponsible to teachers and, more
important, irresponsible to kids, if we didn’t generate these
data and use them for improvement.”  Michelle Rhee , schools chancellor of the District of
Columbia, drew controversy for her use of student test scores to
measure teacher quality and dismiss instructors. Rhee announced
her resignation last week after her educational policies became
an issue in the unsuccessful re-election bid of her boss, Mayor
 Adrian Fenty .  ‘Value-Added’  New York City has the nation’s largest public school
system, with 1.1 million students. New York’s performance
ratings use “value-added” analysis to assess teachers,
according to the union’s court filing. This approach attempts to
determine whether pupils make larger or smaller gains than their
previous test scores would have predicted. In theory, the
ratings give teachers credit for their students’ improvement,
regardless of each pupil’s starting point, Haycock said.  Accurately assessing the impact of individual teachers on
students is tricky, in part because they often receive
instruction from many teachers, Haycock said. The data should be
used as part of a host of measures, said  Douglas Ready , an
assistant professor at Columbia University’s Teachers College in
New York.  Not Toaster Ovens  “Evaluating a teacher is not like rating a toaster oven,”
Ready said in a telephone interview. “Test scores are important
to know, but they can’t be the sole criteria by which teachers
and schools are judged.”  The New York Times and Wall Street Journal were among the
news organizations that filed requests for the teacher ratings
to be publicly disclosed. New York was scheduled to release the
data today on 12,000 teachers before the agreement was reached
to withhold the names. Oral arguments in the case are scheduled
for Nov. 24.  “While we respect UFT’s right to sue, we believe that the
public has a right to this information under the law,” Natalie
Ravitz, a spokeswoman for the city’s education department, said
in an e-mail.  “This information is misleading,”  Michael Mulgrew ,
president of the teachers’ union, said yesterday during a press
conference. “Thousands of parents are going to be given
erroneous information. Let’s give parents the right information
-- real information.”  The Los Angeles Times in August published a series of
articles that analyzed 6,000 elementary school teachers’
effectiveness in raising students’ math and English scores. The
release of the data spurred union protest, and one teacher
committed suicide after the articles’ publication.  New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg is the founder and
majority owner of Bloomberg LP, parent of Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Hechinger  in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at   Jkaufman17@bloomberg.net . 