-- New York Fed Faces `Inherent Conflict' in Mortgage Buybacks
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   a n d   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2010-10-21T13:54:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/new-york-fed-faces-inherent-conflict-in-seeking-to-recover-mortgage-loss.html
The Federal Reserve Bank of New
York’s effort to recover taxpayer money used in bailouts during
the crisis may be at odds with its mission to ensure the
stability of the financial system.  The New York Fed, which acquired mortgage debt in the 2008
rescues of Bear Stearns Cos. and  American International  Group
Inc., joined a bondholder group including Pacific Investment
Management Co. that aims to force  Bank of America Corp.  to buy
back some bad home loans packaged into $47 billion of
securities, people familiar with the matter said this week.  Concern that Bank of America may be forced to buy back
soured  mortgages  helped send its stock down almost 5 percent in
the last two days, wiping out $5.92 billion of its market value.
The decline runs counter to the Fed’s goal of strengthening the
banking system after the worst crisis since the Great
Depression.  “This is an inherent conflict,” said former Atlanta Fed
research director  Robert Eisenbeis , now chief monetary economist
at Cumberland Advisors Inc. in Sarasota, Florida. “They’re
transferring the loss from what would have been Bear Stearns
through the Fed to the originators of the mortgages. That’s an
odd chain, and I don’t know how you manage that.”  The bondholder group that includes the New York Fed sent a
letter to Bank of America and Bank of  New York Mellon Corp. , the
trustee for the bonds created by Bank of America’s  Countrywide
Financial Corp.  unit, saying that Countrywide failed to service
the loans properly, according to a statement this week from
their lawyer. The statement didn’t name the firms.  Preventing Collapse  Countrywide’s servicing failures, including insufficient
record keeping, may open the door for investors to seek
repurchases, said  Kathy Patrick , the bondholders’ lawyer at
Gibbs and Bruns LLP in Houston. Patrick represents investors who
own at least 25 percent of so-called voting rights in the deals
and stand to recover “many billions of dollars,” she said.  The Fed has no choice except to shield the assets it
acquired as it stepped in to prevent a collapse of the financial
system, said  Joseph Mason , a finance professor at Louisiana
State University in Baton Rouge.  “The New York Fed is, acting along with other
institutional holders, trying to preserve the value of their
securities holdings,” Mason said. “To act otherwise would be
inappropriate and would be viewed as a waste of the government’s
money that was invested in this bailout.”  The  Federal Reserve System , made up of 12 regional banks
plus the Washington-based Board of Governors, works with other
regulators to ensure the safety and soundness of the financial
system.  Wall Street Banks  The New York Fed plays a key role because it oversees many
of the biggest Wall Street bank holding companies, including
JPMorgan Chase & Co., Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Citigroup
Inc. Bank of America, the largest U.S. bank by assets, is based
in Charlotte, North Carolina, and overseen by the Richmond Fed.  Richmond Fed President  Jeffrey Lacker  said yesterday that
there’s no conflict in the central bank’s role. He didn’t
discuss Bank of America specifically.  “I don’t see a conflict of interest between our role in
holding MBS and our role in assuring a safe and sound financial
system,” Lacker said in a question-and-answer session with
reporters in College Park, Maryland. “I think we carry out both
in pursuit of the same ultimate goal.”  Risks to System  The Dodd-Frank Act enacted this year expanded the Fed’s
authority by giving it responsibility for overseeing non-bank
financial firms deemed “too big to fail” because their
collapse might pose a risk to the system. Those may include
insurers such as New York-based AIG and Fairfield, Connecticut-
based General Electric Co.’s GE Capital unit.  The Fed’s effort to avoid losses on mortgage securities
originated by Countrywide and then bought by Bear Stearns
creates “a vicious circle,” Cumberland’s Eisenbeis said.  “It all comes about because of the Fed’s unwillingness to
impose losses on creditors” when it bailed out Bear Stearns.
Had the New York Fed let the investment firm collapse, “then we
wouldn’t have this problem,” he said.  New York Fed spokesman  Jack Gutt  declined to comment. In
August, he said that the institution was involved in “multiple
efforts related to exercising our rights as investors,” which
would “support our primary goal of maximizing the value of
these portfolios on behalf of the American taxpayer.”  Heightened Scrutiny  The Fed’s actions during the crisis have brought heightened
scrutiny from Congress, which approved legislation that will
require government audits of the bailouts and force the central
bank to reveal recipients of emergency credit.  The Fed owns assets from the Bear Stearns and AIG bailouts
in three holding companies. The New York Fed, which has policies
to manage conflicts of interest between its multiple units,
created its Special Investments Management Group in January to
oversee the assets.  Maiden Lane LLC, named for the street bordering the New
York Fed’s Manhattan headquarters, bought about $30 billion of
Bear Stearns assets that JPMorgan didn’t want when it acquired
the company. Maiden Lane II and III were created to hold the
assets from AIG’s rescue. BlackRock Inc., the world’s biggest
money manager, was hired to manage the assets and is also part
of the bondholder group.  ‘Highly Unusual’  “This is a highly unusual position that the Fed has put
itself in,” said  Sylvain Raynes , a principal at R&R Consulting
in New York and co-author of “Elements of Structured Finance,”
which was published in May by Oxford University Press. “They
made their bed and now they have to lie in it.”  Efforts to recoup losses from soured mortgages that spawned
the credit crisis come amid probes of the wave of foreclosures
that followed.  Attorneys general in all 50 states are investigating
whether loan servicers have improperly foreclosed on homes,
contributing to concerns that banks will be forced to buy back
billions of dollars in loans from investors because of faulty
paperwork.  New York Fed President  William Dudley  said this week that
the Fed is working with the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency and the  Federal Deposit Insurance Corp . to review
foreclosure practices and “evaluate any potential impact on the
housing market, financial institutions and the overall
economy.”  Future losses from forced repurchases of soured U.S.
mortgages whose quality failed to meet sellers’ promises will
likely total $55 billion to $120 billion, JPMorgan analysts John
Sim and  Ed Reardon  said in an Oct. 15 report. The $47 billion of
Countrywide securities affected by the bondholder letter
represents the current face amount of the debt, not the
potential recovery for investors.  Bondholder Efforts  The intensification of bondholder efforts to get banks to
repurchase loans “suggests that the fallout from the credit
crisis is far from over,” said  Brian Yelvington , head of fixed-
income strategy at Knight Libertas LLC in Greenwich,
Connecticut, citing the “the huge amount of mortgages that
might be involved.”  The Fed isn’t the only one in the group to face conflicting
goals in trying to get banks to absorb losses.  BlackRock Chief Executive Officer  Larry Fink  said in
response to a question on an Oct. 20 conference call about the
letter to Bank of America that his firm’s “No. 1 job is to be a
fiduciary for investors.” At the same time, Bank of America is
New York-based BlackRock’s  third-largest shareholder , according
to data compiled by Bloomberg based on filings, and Fink’s firm
oversees a range of assets that would likely be affected by
weakened banks.  Unfounded Claims  Bank of America Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan 
said this week that the company will “defend” its shareholders
against unfounded claims.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  fell 1.6 percent on Oct.
19, the day that Bloomberg News reported that the Fed was part
of the group seeking to force banks to buy back loans, on
concern other banks might also be at risk. It was the index’s
biggest drop since August.  Fink said in a Bloomberg Television interview that the
market reaction has been overdone as bond investors won’t be
able to prove “that large” of a number of repurchases are
required and because some banks’ reserves are “probably
adequate.”  Government-controlled Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which the
U.S. has been supporting with almost $150 billion of capital to
help stabilize the housing market and protect investors in their
debt from losses, face a similar dilemma as they try to shift
their losses to lenders.  Fannie, Freddie  Freddie Mac also joined the bondholder letter, and about 53
percent of Bank of America’s $12.9 billion of outstanding
repurchase requests stem from loans directly owned or insured by
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, according to the company.  “The losses are extraordinary, and we owe it to the
American taxpayer to find out where these losses are coming
from,”  Edward J. DeMarco , the Federal Housing Finance Agency’s
acting director, told lawmakers last month.  The New York Fed’s participation in bondholder campaigns
increases the chances banks will be forced to repurchase loans,
said Raynes of R&R Consulting.  “It’s like having a big gorilla in the room,” Raynes
said. “It’s a big advantage if you are dealing with people.
It’s like being sued by the government -- it does make a
difference.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Caroline Salas  in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  