-- New Jersey Rail Tunnel Needs Tighter Oversight, Federal Document Says
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2010-10-21T21:45:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/new-jersey-s-8-7-billion-rail-tunnel-needs-more-oversight-u-s-memo-says.html
New Jersey  began its stalled $8.7
billion rail tunnel without proper oversight and faces
“significant risk” of overruns, according to a document from
the U.S. Transportation Department inspector general’s office.  Former Governor  Jon Corzine ’s administration should have
hired a private-sector inspector general to oversee the project
when it commenced work in September 2009, the federal officials
said in a May 17  report  that a state lawmaker released today.
Corzine, a Democrat, gave Comptroller  Matthew Boxer  that
responsibility.  Republican Governor  Chris Christie  on Oct. 7 ordered work
halted, saying the project might end up costing $14 billion.
Under the original plan, the federal government and Port
Authority of New York & New Jersey each were to pay $3 billion
for the work, and the state $2.7 billion. Christie said state
taxpayers would be “on the hook” for anything more.  New Jersey Transit  started the project “despite the
benefits and widespread use of integrity monitors in New York
and New Jersey,” Joseph W. Come, assistant inspector general
for surface and maritime program audits at the Transportation
Department, said in the memo. “Based on our years of monitoring
major construction projects in the area, we believe NJT should
reconsider its decision.”  The Federal Transit Administration’s “decision to award an
early systems work agreement may keep the project within budget
and on schedule but it is not without significant risk,” Come
wrote, without estimating how much the project may go over
budget.  Adding it Up  The memo was among more than 150 pages of documents the
Christie administration released to Assembly Transportation
Chairman  John Wisniewski , a Sayreville Democrat who has opposed
the governor’s decision, after a public-records request.
Wisniewski said the documents don’t support the overruns of as
much as $5 billion Christie cited in stopping the project, known
as Access to the Region’s Core.  The governor’s spokesman,  Michael Drewniak , said the
documents were the first of many that will be released on a
“rolling basis.”  The report was “among the red flags for the governor,”
Drewniak said in an interview.  Calvin Scovel , U.S. Transportation Department inspector
general, announced in March that he planned to audit FTA
oversight of projects in and around New York. The projects to be
scrutinized included the Metropolitan Transportation Authority’s
Fulton Street Transit Center, Second Avenue Subway and East Side
Access projects, all of which received money from President
 Barack Obama ’s economic stimulus-package.  ‘Thin Air’  Olivia Alair , a Transportation Department spokeswoman,
declined to comment on the report. David Wonnenberg, a spokesman
for the inspector general’s office, didn’t immediately respond
to a telephone call and e-mail seeking comment.  Federal officials never justified Christie’s estimates of
as much as $5 billion in overruns, Wisniewski said in a
statement.  “That claim seems as though it was simply pulled out of
thin air by the governor,” the lawmaker said. “The governor is
risking New Jersey’s economic future with numbers that, at least
according to these documents, have no basis in reality.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
 Angela Greiling Keane  in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 