-- Nexans May Sell Stock to Help Fund Draka Bid, Chief Financial Officer Says
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2010-10-21T06:27:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/nexans-may-sell-stock-to-help-fund-draka-bid-chief-financial-officer-says.html
Nexans SA, the world’s biggest maker
of cables, may sell new shares to help fund its 731-million euro
($1 billion) bid for  Draka Holding NV  if the Dutch target’s
management and supervisory board approve the takeover offer.  A capital increase to fund part of the deal “is
possible,”  Frederic Michelland , chief financial officer of
Paris-based Nexans, said in a telephone interview on Oct. 19. In
addition, he said, “it’s reasonable to think that a significant
part of this deal will be funded with the cash of the group.”  Nexans, whose cash offer of 15 euros a share has the
backing of Flint Beheer NV, owner of 48.5 percent of  Draka ,
wants a “friendly deal” and won’t pursue a hostile offer,
Michelland said. A transaction could be completed in late March
or early April, he said.  Nexans, which competes with  Prysmian SpA  and  General Cable
Corp. , is seeking to restore  margins  after the recession and
competition from  South Korean  rivals hurt earnings and prompted
plant closures. Buying Draka, Europe’s third-biggest cables
maker, would give Nexans a bigger footprint in Asia, and more
sales in cables for telecommunications and energy infrastructure
including wind turbines.  “A combination of Nexans and Draka could allow us to make
a real step forward in  specialty cables , which are one of the
group’s priorities,” Michelland said. “That would accelerate
our deployment in some areas that are priorities, such as wind
turbines, where Draka has recognized positions and know-how.”  Further Expansion  The acquisition doesn’t mean Nexans won’t seek further
 expansion , the CFO said.  “If it goes through, the deal won’t prevent the
continuation of a selective strengthening of the group outside
Europe, or on energy infrastructure cables,” he said. “It’s
too early” to quantify “potential overlaps” between Nexans
and Draka.  The offer values Draka’s 48.7 million ordinary shares at
731 million euros, according to Bloomberg calculations. Nexans
hasn’t decided whether to bid for Draka’s 5.75 million
 preference shares , Michelland said.  Draka dropped 36 cents, or 2.3 percent, to 15.30 euros
yesterday. Nexans  fell  0.2 percent to 54.51 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francois de Beaupuy  in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 