-- Nippon Life to Buy More Foreign Debt as Japan's Yields Near Seven-Year Low
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 2010-10-21T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/nippon-life-to-buy-more-foreign-debt-as-japan-s-yields-near-seven-year-low.html
Nippon Life Insurance Co.  said it
may increase holdings of foreign bonds to supplement returns on
yen-denominated debt as yields on domestic government securities
stay near the lowest level in seven years.  Japan’s biggest life insurer is likely to put a portion of
its 400 billion yen ($4.93 billion) in new investments into
overseas bonds during the second half of the fiscal year ending
in March, said  Yosuke Matsunaga , general manager of the Osaka-
based company’s finance and investment planning department.
Currency-hedged foreign debt made up 11 percent of Nippon Life’s
47.1 trillion yen portfolio at the end of last month, according
to a statement issued by the company.  “It’s tough to totally depend on domestic bonds,”
Matsunaga told reporters at a briefing in Tokyo. “It’s more
likely our investments will combine domestic debt and currency-
hedged foreign bonds, and depending on the yen’s appreciation,
non-hedged foreign ones.”  Japanese insurers are seeking higher returns to meet
payoffs on policies as prolonged deflation in the country
depresses stock prices and sustains demand for bonds. Dai-ichi
Life Insurance Co., the nation’s No. 2 life insurer, said last
week it plans to reduce investment in domestic stocks and mainly
invest in Japanese government bonds, while smaller rival Meiji
Yasuda Life Insurance Co. said two days ago it may raise foreign
bond investments by 200 billion yen.  Comparative Returns  Nippon Life’s returns on investments fell short of its
projections by at least 30 billion yen for four of the past five
years, according to an annual report on its website. Of the
insurer’s portfolio, non-hedged foreign debt made up 5 percent
and domestic bonds 41 percent.  Japanese government debt handed investors a 3.4 percent
return in the six months ended Sept. 30, compared with a 7.6
percent return on U.S. Treasuries, according to an index
compiled by Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit. The
Nikkei 225 Stock Average slid 16 percent during the period.  Benchmark 10-year yields in Japan may end March as low as
0.7 percent, a level unseen since June 2003, Nippon Life said.
Ten-year  yields  sank to a seven-year low of 0.82 percent on Oct.
6 a day after the Bank of Japan cut its key interest rate to a
range of zero to 0.1 percent and announced the creation of a 5
trillion yen fund to buy government and corporate debt,
exchange-traded funds and real-estate investment trusts.  The yen may reach a new record low of 75 per dollar at the
end of March, Nippon Life also forecast. It touched 80.85
yesterday, the weakest since April 1995, when the post-World War
II low of 79.75 was set.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Masaki Kondo  in Tokyo at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
 Komaki Ito  in Tokyo at   kito@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 