-- Nokia Third-Quarter Net Beats Analysts' Estimate; Shares Rise
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2010-10-21T16:13:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/nokia-third-quarter-net-beats-analysts-estimate-shares-rise.html
Nokia Oyj , the world’s biggest maker
of mobile phones, posted third-quarter profit that beat
analysts’ estimates as it sold more smartphones, boosting
shares. The company said it plans to cut 1,800 jobs globally.  In the first results since the Finnish company named
 Stephen Elop  chief executive officer last month, Nokia reported
 net income  of 529 million euros ($740 million), or 14 cents a
share, from a loss of 559 million euros, or 15 cents, a year
earlier.  Analysts had predicted  profit of 182.5 million euros.
Sales rose 5 percent to 10.3 billion euros.  “Finally you can say the negative spiral has changed and a
lot of points are at least initially looking better,” said
 Niklas Lund , who helps manage 1.3 billion euros of assets
including Nokia shares at Alandsbanken Asset Management in
Helsinki. The recently introduced lineup of smartphones “are
all higher priced and that’s why the trend could be broken.”  The first profit to beat estimates since the fourth quarter
of last year may provide Elop with a breather as he tries to
claw back ground lost in the high-end smartphone market to  Apple
Inc. ’s iPhones and devices using  Google Inc. ’s Android platform.
Smartphone volumes surged 61 percent to 26.5 million in the
quarter, the first time this year that Espoo, Finland-based
Nokia has beaten industry smartphone growth rates of 50 percent.  “Smartphone sales were a bit better than expected and
that’s improved average selling prices and margins,” said
 Michael Schroeder , a FIM Bank analyst in Helsinki. The outlook
for fourth-quarter devices and services revenue of 8.2 billion
to 8.7 billion euros was also seen as a positive, he said.  ‘Unambiguous Support’  Shares rose  6.3 percent to 8.21 euros in Helsinki, the most
since Jan. 28. The lack of hit touchscreen devices and delays in
redeveloping its Symbian operating software pulled Nokia’s share
price below 10 euros for the past six months. It plummeted from
28.60 euros in November 2007 to 6.61 euros in June.  Nokia needs to create “sustainable differentiated value”
to stand out against rivals, Elop said on an analyst call,
adding that the board of directors has assured him “unambiguous
support to aggressively pursue any necessary measures” to
strengthen the company.  The Nokia board led by Chairman  Jorma Ollila  last month
appointed Elop, a 46-year-old  Microsoft Corp.  executive to take
over the company from 30-year Nokia veteran  Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo . Smartphone chief  Anssi Vanjoki  announced his
departure before Elop began on Sept. 21.  In signs Elop is beginning to put his stamp on the company,
Nokia today said it will merge development efforts for its
smartphone platforms Symbian 3 and Symbian 4 and provide users
with a continuous upgrade path.  ‘Smokescreen?’  “It remains to be seen whether this is just a smokescreen
pulled over a very difficult operating system transition -
whether they don’t want to talk about Symbian 3 and 4 because
they’re missing on those milestones - or if there’s a real
gameplan here that will change Nokia’s positioning and the
quality of the user experience,” said  Alexander Peterc , a
London-based analyst at Exane BNP Paribas. “The market is
positive because something’s moving along, at least.”  Nokia struggled through the summer to produce Symbian 3, a
new version of its main smartphone software optimized for
touchscreen use. That hurt its ability to capture the growth in
smartphones as consumers embraced devices offering computer-like
capabilities from games playing to surfing YouTube.  Nokia shipped some units of the N8, the flagship of its new
touchscreen series, in the third quarter and will ramp up
volumes of the device as well as three follow-on products for
the end-of-year shopping season.  Mixed Reviews  The N8 has been praised by reviewers for its hardware,
particularly the high-definition photo and video camera. The new
Symbian and its integration with services have, however,
received mixed reviews.  “The Finnish mobile-making team shot itself in the foot
with its N8 launch purely through a bungled execution on the
software front,”  Vlad Savov , a reviewer at Engadget, a consumer
electronics weblog, wrote. “Delay after delay on the Symbian 3
front meant the awesomely specified hardware didn’t see the
light of retail day until, arguably, too late.”  Nokia said today that the planned job cuts will affect
Symbian smartphones development, services, research and
development and corporate functions.  “The job cuts means there will be a new restructuring
program and it will hit Devices and Services this time, which
has so far been pretty clean in terms of restructuring costs,”
said  Helena Nordman-Knutson , an analyst at Oehman in Stockholm.  Product Mix  In the third quarter, shortages of screens and cameras used
in cheaper devices forced Nokia to hold back some shipments,
pulling low-end phone volumes down 9 percent to 83.9 million.  “Nokia’s  margins  benefited, among other one-time factors,
from component shortages that hit low-end, low-margin mobile
phones,” said Nordea Bank analyst  Sami Sarkamies .  Nokia’s devices division also profited from a one-time
royalty payout that raised margins 80 basis points, or 0.8
percent, and a one-time 127 million-euro tax benefit.  That helped push the division’s adjusted operating margin
to 10.5 percent, exceeding the company’s forecast of 7 to 10
percent for the quarter.  The average  selling price  increased to 65 euros from 61
euros last quarter, helped by currency effects as well as the
product mix. The average price for smartphones fell to 136 euros
from 190 euros a year ago while the low-end mobile phone price
rose to 42 euros. The company’s selling prices in Europe fell on
a competitive market for operator subsidies, Chief Financial
Officer  Timo Ihamuotila  said on the call.  Market Share  Overall market share dropped to 30 percent from 34 percent
a year ago as shipments fell in Asia-Pacific, Middle East and
Africa. Smartphone market share was 38 percent compared to 37
percent in the year-ago quarter and 41 percent in the second
quarter, the company said.  Nokia Siemens Networks, a joint venture with  Siemens AG ,
missed estimates, posting an adjusted margin of -3.9 percent
against between -2 percent and 2 percent expected by Nokia.  Fourth-quarter results  will see less favorable tax rates
and hedging outcomes, as well as continuing component shortages
and the marketing spending that was shifted later in the year,
Ihamotila said.  “I’m a little surprised  Nokia shares  held onto the gains
as without one-time effects they would have missed on the top
line and probably on the profit line as well,” said BNP
Paribas’s Peterc.  Nokia today cut its volume market share forecast for 2010,
saying its percentage of the total number of phones sold this
year will be “slightly down” this year compared with 2009.  It raised its 2010 outlook for industrywide sales, saying
deliveries will gain more than 10 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Diana ben-Aaron  in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at   vroot@bloomberg.net  