-- Norilsk Nickel Shareholders Defeat Rusal Motion, Vote to Retain Board
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a   a n d   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2010-10-21T13:50:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/norilsk-nickel-shareholders-defeat-rusal-motion-vote-to-retain-board.html
A majority of OAO GMK  Norilsk Nickel 
investors voted against shareholder  United Co. Rusal ’s motion to
re-elect the board of Russia’s biggest miner in a blow to
billionaire  Oleg Deripaska ’s ambitions to boost his influence.  Shareholders at an extraordinary general meeting today
voted to keep the board, Chairman  Vasily Titov  said.  Rusal, with 25 percent of Norilsk, called for an EGM to re-
elect the board after a June shareholder vote that the world’s
biggest aluminum producer said was manipulated. The result gave
Rusal three board seats to billionaire  Vladimir Potanin ’s four.
Potanin’s Interros Holding Co. also owns 25 percent of Norilsk.  Potanin has clashed with Deripaska, Rusal’s biggest owner,
over how Norilsk manages cash and operations. Deripaska wants
bigger dividends to help Rusal pay off about $13 billion of debt
and a management overhaul. Potanin backs Chief Executive Officer
 Vladimir Strzhalkovsky ’s team and wants to curb Rusal’s control
of Norilsk, fearing Deripaska will seek to merge the two.  Shareholders with 70.52 percent of Norilsk had registered
to vote today at the start of the EGM. Norilsk, the largest
nickel maker, also supplies half of the world’s palladium.  Titov said shareholders representing 38 percent of Norilsk
shares voted to change the board and 47 percent were against,
with 0.4 percent abstaining.  “The fact that we were not able to secure enough votes
will not distract us from the positive agenda which was outlined
earlier,” Rusal said in an e-mailed statement.  Strzhalkovsky today reiterated the company’s readiness to
support a pool of investors to buy Rusal’s stake in Norilsk.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Kolesnikova  in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Torrey Clark at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net  