-- Novartis Third-Quarter Net Rises on Lucentis, Exforge
-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r
-- 2010-10-21T20:18:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/novartis-third-quarter-net-rises-8-4-on-higher-lucentis-exforge-revenue.html
Novartis AG  indicated  Alcon Inc. 
shareholders should take another look at its $11.5 billion
buyout offer now that an increase in the Swiss drugmaker’s share
price and a rally in the franc have lifted the value of the bid.  Novartis, which owns 77 percent of the eye-care company,
isn’t waiting to buy the remaining shares and instead is
starting to work with Alcon at “arm’s length,” Novartis Chief
Executive Officer  Joe Jimenez  said on a conference call after
reporting an 8.4 percent increase in third-quarter profit.
Novartis is willing to pay a fair price and no more, and the
deal must benefit both companies, he said.  “We will see how things play out,” Jimenez said. “This
has to be a fair offer for Novartis and Alcon. The
attractiveness of that offer has gone up.”  The rise in Basel, Switzerland-based Novartis’s stock eases
pressure on Jimenez to sweeten the terms, said  Andrew Weiss , an
analyst at Bank Vontobel AG in Zurich. The independent directors
committee of Alcon’s board has demanded a higher price since
Novartis offered Alcon’s public shareholders less than Nestle SA
received this year for its 52 percent stake.  Novartis finished unchanged at 30 Swiss francs in Zurich.
The shares have risen 13 percent since touching their low for
the year on July 30, while the Swiss franc has gained 7 percent
against the dollar.  In announcing the purchase of Nestle’s stake on Jan. 4 for
$28.3 billion, or $180 a share, in cash, Novartis also said it
would exchange 2.8 of its shares for each of Alcon’s. That
valued the publicly traded stock at about $153 a share that day.
The offer is now worth about $165.80, based on today’s closing
price for Novartis and the franc’s exchange rate with the
dollar.  Higher Price  Nestle deserved a higher price than Alcon’s public
shareholders because the Nestle stake gave Novartis control of
Alcon, Novartis has said. Alcon, the world’s largest eye-care
company, is based in Huenenberg, Switzerland, and its shares
trade on the New York Stock Exchange. Alcon has traded at  a
premium  to the Novartis bid as  investors  speculated on a higher
offer.  Novartis bought 25 percent of Alcon from Nestle in 2008 for
$143 a share. Combined with what it paid Nestle this year, the
average price was $168.  “The offer is just short of $168, and at $168 it will be
difficult for the IDC to block a merger,” Weiss said in a
telephone interview today, referring to the independent
directors. “The terms are good, the price is in line. The ice
under the IDC’s feet is getting thin.”  Alcon fell $1.06, or 0.6 percent, to close at $167.70.  Rising Profit  Novartis’s  net income  rose to $2.28 billion in the third
quarter from $2.1 billion a year earlier, the company said in a
statement today. Analysts predicted $2.22 billion, according to
the average of 15 estimates compiled by Bloomberg over the past
month. Sales increased 13 percent to $12.6 billion. Demand for
drugs to treat eye disease and high blood pressure and a new
generic blood thinner helped lift earnings.  Novartis is rebuilding its stable of products to help
replace revenue it will lose when its best-seller, Diovan for
hypertension, starts to lose U.S. patent protection in 2012.
Regulators approved Lucentis, an eye medicine, and  Exforge , a
blood-pressure drug, in the past four years. Novartis began
selling a copy of Sanofi-Aventis SA’s Lovenox blood thinner this
year.  Sales growth this year will be in the mid teens on a
percentage basis because of the inclusion of four months of
revenue of Alcon, the company said. Excluding Alcon, Novartis
maintained its forecast from July for growth at a mid-to-high
single-digit pace on a constant currency basis.  Diovan, Gleevec  Prescription drug sales climbed 5 percent to $7.6 billion.
Lucentis sales climbed 19 percent to $398 million, while Exforge
increased 30 percent to $222 million.  Diovan generated $1.5 billion in revenue, a gain of 1
percent, and sales of Gleevec for leukemia rose 4 percent to $1
billion. Diovan faces competition from Teva Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd.’s generic version of Merck & Co.’s Cozaar
hypertension pill, which won U.S. regulatory approval in April.  Revenue from the  Sandoz  generic-drug business gained 18
percent to $2.2 billion. Enoxaparin, the generic of Lovenox, had
$292 million of sales. Novartis won U.S. regulatory approval in
July to sell the drug, which uses technology from Momenta
Pharmaceuticals Inc.  Momenta shares rose 85 cents, or 5.8 percent, to close at
$15.57 on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  Alcon yesterday raised its profit forecast for the year and
reported a 13 percent drop in third-quarter earnings on costs
linked to the Novartis offer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eva von Schaper  in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  