-- NTT Data Said to Be in Talks to Acquire Keane for More Than $1.2 Billion
-- B y   Y o s h i n o r i   E k i   a n d   P a v e l   A l p e y e v
-- 2010-10-21T09:20:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/ntt-data-said-to-be-in-talks-to-acquire-keane-for-more-than-1-2-billion.html
NTT Data Corp. , the network-services
unit of Japan’s largest phone company, is in advanced talks to
buy Keane Inc. for more than 100 billion yen ($1.2 billion) to
expand in the U.S., a person familiar with the matter said.  NTT Data plans to purchase all the shares in Boston-based
Keane, which is half-owned by a Citigroup Inc. unit, the person
said, declining to be identified because the talks are
confidential. The companies seek to reach an agreement by the
end of this month, he said.  A deal would add to NTT Data’s overseas acquisition this
year as the company aims to quadruple its overseas sales in
three years to March 2013. The move is part of the foreign
exchange-fueled expansion by its parent  Nippon Telegraph &
Telephone Corp. , which in July agreed to buy South Africa’s
Dimension Data Plc for 2.1 billion pounds ($3.3 billion).  “The acquisition is well within the framework of NTT
Data’s overseas expansion plan,”  Hidemasa Mizumoto , an analyst
at Mizuho Investors Securities Co. in Tokyo, said by phone
today. “The focus is on what kind of group synergies can be
realized in combination with NTT’s purchase of Dimension.”  The Nikkei newspaper reported on the negotiations earlier
today, prompting Tokyo-based NTT Data to say in a statement that
the company wasn’t the source of the information. Tara Jantzen,
a Keane spokeswoman, declined to comment.  NTT Data  climbed 1.5 percent to close at 250,600 yen on the
Tokyo Stock Exchange, after climbing as much as 3.2 percent. The
benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average fell 0.1 percent.  The Tokyo-based company said in May 2009 that it aims to
increase its overseas sales to 300 billion yen by March 2013,
compared with 70 billion yen for fiscal 2009. NTT owns 54
percent of NTT Data, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yoshinori Eki  in Tokyo at 
 yeki@bloomberg.net ;
 Pavel Alpeyev  in Tokyo at 
 palpeyev@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net . 