-- Nucor Net Trails Estimates on Unexpected Price Drop
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2010-10-21T20:31:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/nucor-net-trails-estimates-on-unexpected-price-drop-update2-.html
Nucor Corp. , the largest U.S.
steelmaker, reported third-quarter profit that trailed analysts’
estimates because of lower-than-expected selling prices. The
company said the current quarter may be more challenging.  Net income  was $23.5 million, or 7 cents a share, in the
three months ended Oct. 2, compared with a net loss of $29.5
million, or 10 cents, a year earlier, Charlotte, North Carolina-
based Nucor said today in a statement. The  average estimate  of
10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for profit of 10 cents a
share, the top end of a range that Nucor forecast on Sept. 14.
Sales rose 32 percent to $4.14 billion.  Nucor, led by Chief Executive Officer  Dan DiMicco , said the
company ran its mills at 68 percent of capacity, compared with
71 percent in the second quarter. The company’s prices rose
through July and then fell more than expected in August and
September, said  Michelle Applebaum , who runs Chicago-based
equity research company Michelle Applebaum Research.  “Their prices were $30 a ton less than what I was
forecasting, and that impacted margins,” Applebaum, a former
analyst at Citigroup Inc., said in a telephone interview. “We
have never seen this kind of price volatility in the steel
industry before.”  Average third-quarter prices for  hot-rolled steel coil , a
benchmark product used in cars and buildings, were about $564 a
ton, 18 percent higher than a year earlier, according to data
compiled by Metal Bulletin. Average prices slipped 11 percent
from the second quarter.  Global ‘Uncertainty’  Nucor said there is “increased uncertainty” about the
U.S. and global economies.  “The fourth quarter may indeed turn out to be the most
challenging quarter of the year,” Nucor said in the statement.  Prices for steel scrap in the current quarter will be
unchanged to “slightly higher” compared with the third
quarter, Chief Operating Officer  John J. Ferriola  said today on
an earnings conference call.  Nucor fell $1.49, or 3.8 percent, to $37.89 at 4:15 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  The shares  have
dropped 19 percent this year.  Reliance Steel & Aluminum Co. , the largest U.S. metal
service center, also reported earnings that trailed analysts’
estimates. Third-quarter  net income  rose 17 percent to $48.7
million, or 65 cents a share, from $41.8 million, or 57 cents, a
year earlier, Los Angeles-based Reliance said today in a
statement. The  average estimate  of nine analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg was for profit of 72 cents a share.  Reliance Forecast  Reliance  forecast  fourth-quarter profit of 35 cents to 45
cents a share, trailing the 73-cent average estimate of eight
analysts surveyed.  The third-quarter results were a function of falling steel
prices compounded by Reliance’s “first-in, first-out” method
of inventory accounting, Applebaum said.  “I call it the LIFO quarter from hell,” she said.  Reliance fell $1.10, or 2.6 percent, to $41.36 in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading.  The shares  have dropped 4.3
percent this year.  Nucor said LIFO accounting reduced its third-quarter
earnings by $50 million, compared with a $120 million credit a
year earlier.  Nucor has posted four consecutive quarterly profits since
reporting  losses  through the first three quarters of 2009.  U.S. Steel Corp. , the second-biggest U.S.-based steelmaker
by market capitalization, and West Chester, Ohio-based AK Steel
Holding Corp. are scheduled to report quarterly results on
Oct. 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jack Kaskey  in New York at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey@bloomberg.net.s  