-- Obama Targets Women Voters in Seattle, Key Constituency to Win Election
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2010-10-21T19:49:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/obama-targets-women-voters-in-seattle-key-constituency-to-win-election.html
President  Barack Obama  focused on
women and young voters in Seattle as he sought to ramp up the
enthusiasm of two crucial Democratic-leaning constituencies less
than two weeks before elections to decide control of Congress.  Obama campaigned for incumbent Senator  Patty Murray  during
stops in the backyard of a Seattle home and at a rally on the
campus of the University of Washington.  He told a group of women at the backyard event that his
initiatives will help them prosper in the workplace and benefit
their families. There and at the rally he took aim at
Republicans, who are poised to make gains in the midterm
elections, saying they would return to policies that led to the
worst recession since the Great Depression.  “Well Seattle, it’s up to you to tell them you haven’t
forgotten,” Obama said to a cheering crowd at the university.
“It’s up to you to say, ‘We are not buying what you are
selling.’”  The president is on the second day of a five-state campaign
swing to defend his party’s congressional majorities. He has
stops today in Washington and California, where Murray and
 Barbara Boxer  are fighting to hold onto their seats. White House
officials say both races are must-wins for Democrats to keep
control of the Senate.  Get Out the Vote  With less than two weeks before the election, the president
is raising money and campaigning in Democratic-leaning states,
seeking to rouse the party’s base and revive some of the
enthusiasm, especially among younger voters, that helped him win
the presidency in 2008.  “There’s no doubt that we’re getting to a point in the
campaign where it’s important that the campaigns that have
identified their voters make sure we get them out to, get them
out on Election Day,” White House press secretary  Robert Gibbs 
told reporters traveling with the president.  The backyard event is timed to an administration report
released today that says the president’s policies have benefited
women, who make up 47 percent of the workforce, through
initiatives on the economy, education and health care.  White House officials said the discussion is meant to
highlight the potential impact of the Nov. 2 vote on women
because many of the president’s policies, such as the health-
care law, are opposed by Republicans.  “There are stakes for women in this economy and this
election, and this is a good opportunity to underscore that,”
White House senior adviser  David Axelrod  said.  Senate Race  Obama was joined at the event by Murray, who is being
challenged by Republican  Dino Rossi , a businessman and former
state senator. Vice President  Joe Biden  and first lady  Michelle Obama  have also appeared for Murray in recent weeks. Later
today, Obama will help raise money for the three-term senator
before addressing a party-organized a rally at the University of
Washington.  A  poll  by the Seattle-based university conducted Oct. 5-14
found Murray leading Rossi by 8 percentage points, 50 percent to
42 percent among registered voters. The poll has an error margin
of plus or minus 4.3 percentage points.  The campaign help from Obama, Biden and others “will only
help solidify the lead,” said Matt Barreto, an associate
professor of political science at the university and director of
the poll.  Obama is still popular in the western portions of the
state, particularly Seattle, he said.  Support From Women  Murray is doing well among women, leading by 17 points,
while trailing Rossi by 1 point among men. She has “very
effectively campaigned to women” and their support is giving
Murray her lead, Barreto said.  An event with Obama focused on women “fits in great” with
Murray’s campaign, he said.  The  report  from Obama’s National Economic Council said that
 unemployment  among women increased to 8.3 percent in June 2009
from 4.9 percent in December 2007, when the recession began.
Single mothers were hardest hit, with an unemployment rate of
13.6 percent, the highest in more than 25 years, the report
said.  Women saw earnings drop by 2.8 percent during the
recession. In 2009 women’s median earnings were $26,030 compared
with men who earned $36,331, according to the report.  Gibbs denied the report on women was timed to the political
calendar.  “It’s an issue that obviously is on everybody’s mind and
I’m sure is on the minds of people of the states that are
represented by women in the Senate and those that aren’t,” he
said.  Republicans need a net gain of 39 seats to get a majority
in the 435-member House of Representatives. The nonpartisan
Rothenberg Political Report forecasts Republicans will gain 40
to 50 seats, with 60 possible. In the Senate, where Republicans
now hold 41 of 100 seats, report editor  Stuart Rothenberg 
expects Republicans to pick up six to eight seats, not enough to
claim a majority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Seattle at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  