-- Obama Meets With Jobs, Raises Cash on West Coast Campaign Swing
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 2010-10-22T01:31:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/obama-plans-to-meet-apple-ceo-jobs-today-u-s-official-says.html
President  Barack Obama  and  Apple
Inc.  Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  met today and talked
about education, energy policy and ways to create jobs,
according to the White House.  Obama, who was in California for a political event, met
with the Apple chief at a San Francisco hotel.  “They discussed American competitiveness and education,
especially reforms such as the president’s Race to the Top
initiative,” White House press secretary  Robert Gibbs  said in a
statement. “They then talked about energy independence and ways
to increase job creation.”  Earlier today, Gibbs told reporters that the talk with Jobs
was “a meeting the president was interested in having.” Obama
was “eager to talk to him about the economy, innovation and
technology, education,” Gibbs said.  The president is in the Bay Area to help the Democratic
National Committee raise money at two fundraisers, one at the
home of clean technology venture capitalist  Steve Westly  and
another at the home of  Marissa Mayer ,  Google Inc. ’s vice
president of search products. The DNC aims to raise about $1.8
million from the two events, according to a Democratic Party
official.  Obama is scheduled to spend the night in the city before
leaving for Los Angeles as part of a campaign swing on behalf of
California Democratic Senator  Barbara Boxer .  Stumping for Democrats  With less than two weeks until the midterm elections, the
president is on the second day of a five-state trip to raise
money for Democratic candidates and raise enthusiasm from party
supporters.  Tomorrow he’ll attend an event in Los Angeles for Boxer, a
three-term senator who is facing Republican  Carly Fiorina , the
former chief executive officer of  Hewlett-Packard Co. , in a
close race.  California voters will decide another of the year’s most
high-profile contests in the governor’s race between former  EBay
Inc.  CEO  Meg Whitman , the Republican nominee, and Democratic
state Attorney General  Jerry Brown , a former governor.  A poll released today by the nonpartisan Public Policy
Institute of California showed Brown with a 44-36 percent lead
among likely voters. Boxer leads Fiorina 43-38 percent in the
same poll.  Obama and Jobs last met during the 2008 campaign, according
to Gibbs.  Jobs has supported Democratic candidates and organizations
in the past. He donated $50,000 to the DNC in 2000 and $26,700
to the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee in 2006,
according to Federal Election Commission records. Jobs also
contributed $1,000 to former White House Chief of Staff  Rahm Emanuel  when Emanuel was running for the U.S. House in 2004.  On Oct. 19, Apple predicted profit of $4.80 a share for
this quarter, short of the $5.03 average of  estimates  compiled
by Bloomberg before the announcement. Apple  has risen  46.9
percent so far this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in San Francisco at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
 Nicholas Johnston  in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  