-- Obama Urges Democrats in Oregon to Rally Behind Candidates on Nov. 2 Polls
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2010-10-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/obama-urges-democrats-to-rally-behind-candidates-on-nov-2.html
President  Barack Obama  told
Democrats in Oregon last night that the party needs their help
in the final days before the Nov. 2 elections, saying Republican
victories would bring back policies that caused the worst
recession since the 1930s.  Speaking at a rally in Portland for Oregon Democratic
gubernatorial candidate  John Kitzhaber , Obama said that the
Republican campaign strategy is based on “amnesia” and that
the vote -- less than two weeks away -- will set the course of
the U.S. economy.  “They figure you’re going to forget, because you’re
angry,” Obama told the crowd at the Oregon Convention Center.
“This election isn’t about anger, it isn’t about fear. This
election is about a choice, and the stakes couldn’t be higher.”  The president continues a five-state campaign swing to
defend his party’s congressional majorities with stops today in
Washington and California, where incumbent Senators  Patty Murray 
and  Barbara Boxer  are fighting to hold onto their seats. White
House officials say both races are must-wins for Democrats to
keep control of the Senate.  The president is raising money and campaigning in
Democratic-leaning states where he is likely to have the biggest
impact. He is also is seeking to revive some of the enthusiasm,
especially from younger and first-time voters, that helped
solidify his victory in 2008.  Congressional Outlook  Republicans need a net gain of 39 seats to get a majority
in the 435-member House of Representatives. The nonpartisan
 Rothenberg Political Report  forecasts a Republican gain of 40 to
50 seats, with 60 possible. In the Senate, where Republicans now
hold 41 of 100 seats, Rothenberg expects Republicans to pick up
six to eight seats, not enough to claim a majority.  Last night in Oregon, where Kitzhaber, who served two terms
as governor, is tied with Republican candidate  Chris Dudley , a
former player in the National Basketball Association, Obama told
Democrats that they can prove the analysts wrong.  “You can defy the conventional wisdom -- yes, you can,”
Obama said, repeating a slogan from his presidential campaign.  Obama and the Democrats are confronted with voter anger
over the state of the U.S. economy. An Oct. 7-10 Bloomberg
National Poll shows that almost two-thirds of voters believe the
country is on the wrong track, and unemployment is the top
concern for about half the electorate. The  deficit , which was
almost $1.3 trillion for the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30,
ranks as the second most pressing issue, cited by 27 percent.  State Economies  The economic issue is underscored in the states Obama is
visiting. California, Nevada and Oregon have unemployment rates
above the national  average  of 9.6 percent. In Nevada, where
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  is struggling in his race
against Tea Party-backed candidate  Sharron Angle , the jobless
rate is 14.4 percent, the highest in the U.S., and the home
foreclosure rate is five times the national average, according
to  RealtyTrac Inc . of Irvine, California.  Today in Seattle, Obama will work to solidify the
Democratic base for Murray, who is in a close race against
Republican  Dino Rossi , a businessman and former state senator.
Vice President  Joe Biden  and first lady  Michelle Obama  have also
campaigned for Murray in recent weeks.  Obama will hold a backyard discussion focusing on women and
the economy before raising funds for Murray’s campaign and
headlining a rally at the University of Washington.  Focus on Women  The backyard event is timed around an administration
report, out later today, that promotes the benefits of Obama’s
economic policies for women. Obama intends to highlight the
stakes for women in this election.  “We’ll see good enthusiasm on this trip,” White House
press secretary  Robert Gibbs  told reporters yesterday aboard Air
Force One. “There’s no doubt that we’re getting to a point in
the campaign where it’s important that the campaigns that have
identified their voters, make sure we get them out on election
day.”  This evening, in California, where Boxer is battling
Republican  Carly Fiorina , the former chief executive officer of
 Hewlett-Packard Co. , Obama will headline two fundraisers for the
Democratic National Committee that aim to raise $1.8 million.  Since March 2009 Obama has raised roughly $45 million for
Democratic candidates and party organizations -- about $11.25
million of that since Labor Day, according to an administration
official, who spoke on condition of anonymity before the figures
are formally reported.  While Democratic fundraising committees for the House and
the Senate entered the final full month of the 2010 campaign
with more money than their Republican counterparts, Republican-
leaning outside groups such as  Karl Rove ’s American Crossroads
are more than making up the difference.  Independent Organizations  The independent organizations, a frequent target of Obama’s
criticism, spent about $73 million from Sept. 1 to Oct. 12, four
times as much as Democratic-leaning organizations, Federal
Election Commission records show.  The president also will deliver remarks at a Los Angeles
fundraiser for Boxer and then hold two rallies, one at the
University of Southern California and another in Las Vegas,
aimed at generating support from younger voters. He will also
campaign and raise money for Reid in Nevada and on Saturday will
campaign for gubernatorial candidate  Mark Dayton  in Minnesota
and raise money for House candidates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Seattle at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  