-- Mobile Talent in Short Supply as Employers Seek to Fill Jobs
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2010-10-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/mobile-applications-talent-in-short-supply-as-employers-seek-to-fill-jobs.html
Technology companies are running up
against a dearth of qualified developers to create applications
for mobile devices, according to a survey by online job board
 Dice Holdings Inc.   Almost 57 percent of employers and outside recruiters that
hired for mobile-related jobs this year plan to boost such hires
in the next 12 months, the survey, conducted on behalf of
Bloomberg Businessweek.com, showed. More than half the
respondents described the supply of quality mobile-software
designers and engineers as “scarce.”  Companies need app developers as the market for mobile
software surges to $17.5 billion by 2012, from $4.1 billion last
year, according to a study by  Chetan Sharma Consulting . The
demand for programmers who can write for mobile platforms, such
as  Apple Inc. ’s iPhone, Google Inc.’s Android and  Research In
Motion Ltd. ’s BlackBerry, has stoked competition among
recruiters, driven up salaries and led employers to consider
getting new talent through acquisitions.  “We’re seeing a lot of companies that have mobile as a
component of their strategy,” said  Steve Fredrick , general
partner at private-equity firm Grotech Ventures in Vienna,
Virginia, and founder of job site  StartUpHire . “There just
aren’t that many people who have experience with mobile
software, and there’s a desire for people who know how to make
that work.”  Small Rise  The software publishing industry employed 257,300 workers
in August, an increase of just 0.7 percent from a year earlier,
according to the  U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics .  The online survey, conducted Oct. 11-15, was based on 283
recruiters who use New York-based Dice’s site and said they had
hired mobile professionals this year. Dice sells services to
businesses who recruit employees through its  site .  More than a fifth of respondents said they hired
substantially more mobile experts this year than last year, and
more than a third said they added slightly more. Some 36 percent
hired about the same number, while 6.6 percent said mobile
hiring fell this year.  In the next 12 months, a fifth of recruiters anticipate a
substantial increase in hiring, 37 percent see a slight
increase, and 34 percent plan to hire about the same number.  The most common salary range for mobile engineers and
designers was $75,001 to $100,000, according to 41 percent of
respondents. About 28 percent said average pay was $100,001 to
$125,000, while 21 percent said it was $50,001 to $75,000.  Higher Salaries  Almost a third of employers raised salary levels for the
average mobile worker “higher than normal,” citing the
increase in demand for talent.  Experience with  Apple ’s mobile platform carried the most
weight on resumes, with 72 percent of recruiters saying they are
hiring for development of iPhone applications, and 38 percent
saying iPhone expertise is the most attractive among platforms.  “Anybody that has an application that has been working on
a notebook now wants that to work on an iPad, an iPhone and on
Google Android,” said  Todd Thibodeaux , chief executive officer
of the trade group  Computing Technology Industry Association  in
Oak Brook, Illinois.  He described the supply of qualified talent as “scant.”
“There’s a whole bunch of specialties that have to develop and
emerge there,” Thibodeaux said.  Android Software  About 60 percent are hiring for  Android  development, and 23
percent said new recruits with knowledge of Google’s platform is
most highly prized. Some 48 percent of employers are hiring for
BlackBerry, while just 16.1 percent said that’s the most
desirable type of mobile expertise.  This month, Dice’s site had 758 job listings requiring
skills or experience with the iPhone, up from 264 a year ago.
The site had 685 listings requiring Android skills, up from 158.  “If you look at jobs that require either iPhone skills or
Android skills, the number of jobs is still pretty small, but if
you look at the growth rate, it’s huge,” said  Tom Silver ,
senior vice president at Dice.  Mobile was described as one of the top three priorities in
technology hiring by 35 percent of employers. A year from now,
as more businesses incorporate mobile technology, Silver
predicts that number will be closer to 50 percent.  The vast majority of employers, or 95 percent, said mobile
hiring was either competitive or extremely competitive.  Overseas Demand  That competition has intensified partly because of
increased demand for talent in other countries, especially India
and China, said  Russell Hancock , CEO of  Joint Venture: Silicon
Valley Network , a San Jose, California-based group formed by
business leaders to focus on talent-pool concerns in the region.  While programmers and other skilled workers from India and
China have had a significant presence in technology companies
during the Internet boom, “in the past decade, that has tailed
off significantly,” Hancock said.  Some businesses are resorting to acquisitions. About half
of the respondents plan to add mobile-software expertise by
buying companies in the next 12 months.  Other companies have learned to be more flexible in their
hiring.  Jeremy Stoppelman , co-founder and CEO of local-business
reviews site Yelp Inc., said he began recruiting engineers
talented enough to learn and adjust to new types of mobile
platforms.  “If you’re doing searches for people with iPhone
experience, it isn’t going to be a deep pool of people,”
Stoppelman said. “We just look for good engineers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Douglas MacMillan  in San Francisco at 
 Dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 