-- Merkin, Och-Ziff, Deutsche Bank, Eurostar, Lehman, Hands in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2010-10-21T10:52:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/och-ziff-deutsche-bank-eurostar-lehman-hands-cazenove-in-court-news.html
New York Attorney General Andrew
Cuomo asked a judge to rule without trial that Ezra Merkin and
his Gabriel Capital Corp. engaged in fraud by secretly placing
client funds with swindler Bernard Madoff.  Cuomo, who sued Merkin in 2009 for steering $2.4 billion to
Madoff in exchange for millions of dollars in fees, filed a
motion for summary judgment Oct. 18 in New York state Supreme
Court in Manhattan. Madoff is serving 150 years in prison after
pleading guilty in 2009 to running the biggest Ponzi scheme
ever.  The “undisputed evidence” establishes that Merkin and
Gabriel induced hundreds of people to invest in funds he
controlled by not disclosing that the funds were managed by
Madoff, according to the filing. There was misrepresentation and
concealment in offering memos, quarterly investor letters and
personal meetings, the filing said.  “The attorney general has established that defendants
engaged in ‘deceitful practices’ in violation of the Martin Act
and Executive Law,” the motion says, citing the state
securities fraud statute and the law governing persistent fraud
or illegality.  Andrew Levander, an attorney who represents Merkin, said in
an e-mailed statement that Cuomo’s motion for summary judgment
was “entirely unfounded” and should be denied. He also
reiterated yesterday that the case was without merit.  “Indeed, discovery has shown that investors in the Ascot,
Gabriel and Ariel funds were not misled in connection with their
investments,” Levander said, referring to Merkin’s funds Ascot
Fund Ltd., Ascot Partners, Ariel Fund Ltd., and Gabriel Capital
LP.  Merkin, 57, and Gabriel also breached their fiduciary
duties to investors by not disclosing and investigating signs
that something was amiss with Madoff’s fund, according to
Cuomo’s filing.  The attorney general is seeking $729 million in restitution
of fees, unspecified restitution for investor losses as a result
of Madoff’s fraud, and an order prohibiting Merkin from acting
as an investment adviser or money manager in the future.  The Cuomo case is New York v. Merkin, 450879/2009, New York
state Supreme Court (Manhattan.) The other cases are Noel M.
Wiederhorn, MD v. Merkin,601265/2010, and Sandalwood Debt Fund
v. Merkin, 651441/2010, New York state Supreme Court.  For more, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Och-Ziff Wins Lawsuit Against London Firm Over Name  Och-Ziff Capital Management Group , the hedge-fund firm run
by Daniel Och, won a lawsuit against a London investment adviser
and its founder to block the use of the Och name.  OCH Capital LLP  and its founder, Thomas Ochocki, infringed
the Och-Ziff trademark, Judge Richard Arnold in London ruled
yesterday. Och-Ziff’s European unit sued the London firm last
year and asked the court to stop the firm from using the first
portion of its name. Och-Ziff has more than $26 billion in
assets under management.  OCH Capital began operating in September 2009, according to
the judgment. Och-Ziff learned of the firm when an interior
designer who works for the hedge fund saw the OCH Capital sign
on a building in the Mayfair neighborhood of London and assumed
it was Och-Ziff.  “OCH is strongly distinctive for financial services,”
Arnold said in the judgment. “There is a manifest likelihood of
confusion on the part of both types of consumer.”  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for New York-based Och-
Ziff, declined to comment.  Damages in the case will be set at a later hearing.  A lawyer for OCH Capital, Alistair Wilson, said during a
three-day trial two weeks ago that the London-based firm
pronounces its name as initials, and offered to Och-Ziff to
clarify that late last year by changing its name to O.C.H.
Capital. The name was never changed, Arnold said in the
judgment.  The case is Och-Ziff Management Europe v. OCH Capital LLP,
112/10, High Court of Justice, Chancery Division (London).  For more, click here.  Deutsche Bank Wins Appeals Case Over 2007 Boersig Appointment  Deutsche Bank AG, Germany’s biggest lender, won “most
parts” of an appeals case over decisions at its 2007
shareholder meeting, the Frankfurt Higher Regional Court said in
an e-mailed statement yesterday.  The court upheld the meeting’s decision to confirm the
election of Clemens Boersig to the bank’s supervisory board as
well the 2006 annual financial statement. The court struck down
the meeting’s vote to discharge the management and supervisory
boards from liability for the year.  The suit is one of about a dozen filed by Leo Kirch, the
German businessman who blames  Deutsche Bank  for the collapse of
his media empire. In June, Deutsche Bank lost an appeals court
ruling by a different chamber of the same court over votes at
its 2008 shareholder meeting, including the re-election of
Boersig to its supervisory board.  A spokesman for Kirch, who declined to be identified, said
he couldn’t comment because he hadn’t received the written
judgment. Deutsche Bank also declined to comment.  Kirch started a legal battle against the lender after the
bank’s former chief executive officer Rolf Breuer commented
about the creditworthiness of Kirch’s former media group on
Bloomberg TV in February 2002. Kirch has sued the bank over each
annual shareholder meeting at Deutsche Bank since 2003.  “Like several rulings of other chambers of this court, the
judges held there was no need to make provisions for a damage
claim by Kirch Group based on an interview of Deutsche Bank’s
former chief executive,” the court said.  Yesterday’s case is OLG Frankfurt, 23 U 121/08.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  New Suits  Fannie Mae Sues Insurers Over Mortgage Loan Losses  Fannie Mae  sued insurance companies, including Great
American Financial Resources Inc. and The Travelers Cos.,
claiming they are responsible for losses on the $131 million
Fannie Mae paid for fraudulent mortgage loans.  In the lawsuit filed yesterday in federal court in
Washington, Fannie Mae said that under Financial Institution
Bonds sold by the insurers, they are responsible for the losses.
The company currently faces $108 million in exposure, it claims.  In June 2009, Michael J. McGrath Jr., the former president
of U.S. Mortgage Corp., pleaded guilty to two criminal counts in
a conspiracy that prosecutors said defrauded Washington-based
Fannie Mae.  McGrath said that from 2004 until January 2009 he
fraudulently sold credit-union loans and used the proceeds to
finance U.S. Mortgage’s operations and investments.  Other defendants in yesterday’s lawsuit include Chubb Group
of Insurance Cos., Lloyd’s of London, CNA Insurance Co., HCC
Insurance Holdings Inc.’s Professional Indemnity Agency, Zurich
North America, Liberty Mutual Group, and Fidelity & Deposit Co.
of Maryland.  The case is Federal National Mortgage Association v.
Certain Underwriters at Lloyd’s, London, 10cv1775, U.S. District
Court for the District of Columbia (Washington).  HealthMarkets Accused by Los Angeles of Defrauding Customers  HealthMarkets Inc., an insurance company controlled by
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  and Blackstone Group LP, was accused of
defrauding customers in a lawsuit brought by Los Angeles.  The health insurer and two of its subsidiaries sold “junk
insurance” that was marketed as comprehensive but had hidden or
obscure exclusions that left policyholders without coverage when
they needed it, Los Angeles City Attorney Carmen Trutanich said
in a complaint filed yesterday in California state court.  Blackstone and  Goldman Sachs , which bought HealthMarkets in
2006, must have, or should have known that the company was
engaged in a fraudulent scheme to sell ineffective insurance,
according to the complaint.  “The investor defendants have participated in, encouraged
and facilitated the continuance of the scheme through their
control of the board directors of defendant  HealthMarkets  and
key board committees, including the compliance and governance
committee,” the city attorney said.  The lawsuit accuses the insurer of unfair competition and
false advertising and seeks a court order requiring
HealthMarkets and its subsidiaries to provide coverage in
keeping with its promises, statutory damages of $2,500 per
violation and restitution.  Donna Ledbetter, a spokeswoman for North Richland Hills,
Texas-based HealthMarkets, had no immediate comment on the
lawsuit. Goldman Sachs spokesman Lucas van Praag and Blackstone
spokeswoman Heather Lucania, didn’t immediately return calls for
comment after regular business hours.  The case is People v. HealthMarkets, BC447886, Los Angeles
County Superior Court.  BP Sued by Groups Seeking Cleanup of Wildlife Habitats  BP Plc  should pay damages and create a fund to restore
wildlife and habitats harmed by the Gulf of Mexico oil spill,
environmental groups said in a lawsuit.  The complaint filed yesterday in federal court in New
Orleans by Defenders of Wildlife, Gulf Restoration Network Inc.
and Save the Manatee Club Inc. alleges that at least 27
federally protected species inhabiting the Gulf region were
harmed by the worst marine oil spill in U.S. history.  The endangered animals include five types of sea turtle,
four species of whales and Florida’s manatees, which the
environmentalists claim are being harmed, harassed and “taken”
in violation of the U.S. Endangered Species Act because of the
oil spill.  Scott Dean, a Houston-based spokesman for BP, declined to
comment.  BP, which is based in London, is still trying to clean up
more than 4.1 million barrels of crude oil spewed into the Gulf
by a damaged subsea well off the Louisiana coast. The spill was
caused by the explosion and sinking of the Deepwater Horizon
drilling rig, under contract to BP, which occurred six months
ago yesterday.  The case is Defenders of Wildlife v. BP Plc, 2:10-cv-03879,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New
Orleans).  Eurostar Sued by Alstom Over Order for Siemens Trains  Eurostar Group Ltd., which runs rail services through the
Channel Tunnel, is being sued by French trainmaker Alstom SA
over its decision to buy expresses for 600 million euros ($830
million) from  Siemens AG  of Germany.  Alstom filed a complaint at the High Court in London
yesterday saying that the tender can’t be concluded because the
Siemens units don’t meet safety regulations that apply in the
tunnel, spokesman Stephane Farhi said yesterday in an e-mail.  Eurostar said on Oct. 7 it would purchase 10 Siemens trains
to add routes and fend off competition from Germany’s Deutsche
Bahn AG, which plans services via the tunnel from 2013. Alstom’s
complaint centers on the choice of units with multiple engines,
which would require an amendment to safety rules, even though
its own proposal featured similar technology, Eurostar said.  “Eurostar firmly believes that the arguments raised by
Alstom in support of its challenge are without foundation,” the
Anglo-French company, which is controlled by French state rail
operator SNCF, said in an e-mail. “Siemens submitted a bid that
was significantly better than that of Alstom on key aspects.”  The tender process was “robust,” with all bids received
“fairly and objectively evaluated,” Eurostar said.  Munich-based Siemens said the Alstom lawsuit isn’t directed
against it while expressing confidence that the court will find
that correct procedures were followed.  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Lehman Can Halt Lawsuits Filed to Recover Payments  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. , the investment bank in
bankruptcy, can halt dozens of lawsuits it filed against banks
and investors to recover payments as part of its effort to
recover money for creditors.  Judge James Peck of the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan
approved Lehman’s request to stay the lawsuits while it
negotiates with defendants, a group includes  Bank of America
Corp.  and  Deutsche Bank AG  as trustees for investors.  “I am satisfied that a stay is absolutely desirable here
and in the best interest of all parties,” he said.  Lehman filed about 50 lawsuits, known as avoidance actions,
to meet a statute of limitations for bringing the complaints and
preserve its claims, according to court papers. It has
agreements that could lead to lawsuits against additional
defendants. More than 1,000 parties are potentially involved,
Harvey Miller, Lehman’s bankruptcy attorney told Peck at
yesterday’s hearing.  Lehman won approval to halt the lawsuits so it can avoid
the costs of litigation. The stay applies to cases that have
been filed and future cases, according to court papers. Several
of the defendants named in the lawsuits filed objections, and
Peck imposed a nine-month period for the stay.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  GM Estate Seeks Approval of Environmental Agreement  General Motors Corp. ’s bankruptcy estate seeks public and
court approval of a settlement that sets aside $773 million to
resolve environmental liabilities.  The mix of cash and assets, to be put into trusts, will
clean up and administer 89 properties, 59 of which are known to
be contaminated, according to a statement by Gary Grinder,
acting deputy U.S. attorney general. A 30-day period to gather
public comment will precede a request for bankruptcy court
approval.  “More than half of the cleanup funds to be paid to the
environmental response trust will be provided for the
environmental remediation of sites in New York and Michigan,”
Grinder said in the statement.  The resolution of environmental issues paves the way for
the old GM estate to end bankruptcy, after U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
Robert Gerber in New York in May gave the company a four-month
extension of its time in Chapter 11 to resolve environmental
liabilities.  The case is In re Motors Liquidation Co., 09-50026, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  New York Courts Mandate Lawyers Certify Foreclosures  New York state courts will require lawyers in residential
foreclosure actions to certify they have taken “reasonable”
steps to verify the accuracy of documents submitted to the
court.  The new rule, released in a statement by the New York state
Unified Court System, is effective immediately.  Chief Judge Jonathan Lippman introduced the requirement in
response to disclosures of deficiencies in residential
foreclosure  filings  nationwide, including notarization and
“robo-signing” and affidavits that falsely state the signer
has knowledge of the facts, the statement said.  “We cannot allow the courts in New York State to stand by
idly and be party to what we now know is a deeply flawed
process, especially when that process involves basic human needs
-- such as a family home -- during this period of economic
crisis,” Lippman said in the statement.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Hands Says He Has No Record of Crucial EMI Deal Calls  Guy Hands, the founder of Terra Firma Capital Partners
Ltd., testified that he has no records to back up his claim that
 Citigroup Inc.  banker David Wormsley misled him in three crucial
telephone conversations about the 2007 auction for  EMI Group
Ltd.   Hands, who was cross-examined in his $8.3 billion fraud
suit against Citigroup, said yesterday he is unaware of any
notes or documents showing that Wormsley falsely told him,
during the weekend before the auction, that Cerberus Capital
Management LP planned to submit a competing bid for EMI.  “You cannot identify one single piece of paper in the
corporate records that reflects that you had a conversation with
David Wormsley about his representation that Cerberus was going
to bid 262 on Monday, May 21?” Citigroup attorney Ted Wells,
referring to the purported 2.62 pounds-a-share bid, asked Hands
in the Manhattan federal court trial.  “I’m not personally aware of any, no,” Hands answered.  The phone conversations are central to Hands’s claim that
Wormsley misled Terra Firma into overpaying for EMI, the 113-
year-old music company, which has lost money since the
 acquisition . Hands testified yesterday that the firm wouldn’t
have participated in the auction had he known there were no
other bidders.  Hands claims that on the final weekend before the auction,
Wormsley, whom he described in testimony as his friend and
business associate, told him in three separate phone calls that
Cerberus remained in the auction and was submitting a bid for
2.62 pounds ($4.15) a share.  The case is Terra Firma v. Citigroup, 09-cv-10459, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Ex-Cazenove Partner Calvert Drops Conviction Appeal, FSA Says  Malcolm Calvert, the ex-partner at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ’s
Cazenove unit who served a third of his 21-month sentence for
insider trading, dropped his appeal of the conviction and a
524,000-pound ($827,000) penalty.  Calvert, who was released from prison about two weeks ago,
has since ended his challenge at the Court of Appeal,  Financial
Services Authority  spokesman Christopher Hamilton said
yesterday. The early release was the decision of the U.K. prison
service, he said.  Judge Peter Testar in May ordered Calvert to forfeit
474,000 pounds and pay another 50,000 pounds to cover the FSA’s
prosecution costs. At an earlier hearing, the FSA had asked for
almost 500,000 pounds in costs.  Calvert was convicted in March.  Harvey Dyson, Calvert’s lawyer, didn’t return an e-mail
seeking comment.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Fannie Mae Suspends Use of Stern Law Firm in Foreclosures  Fannie Mae , the largest provider of mortgage financing in
the U.S., said it halted referrals to a Florida foreclosure-
processing law firm that’s being investigated by the state
attorney general.  The Law Offices of David J. Stern PA have drawn scrutiny in
Attorney General Bill McCollum’s investigation into the
foreclosure of homes based on possibly fraudulent or improperly
prepared documents. Citigroup Inc. said last week that it had
suspended referrals to Stern’s Plantation, Florida-based firm.  “Given the increasing questions related to the Stern law
firm, we decided it was appropriate and responsible to suspend
new referrals to the firm,” Amy Bonitatibus, a spokeswoman for
Washington-based Fannie, said yesterday.  The suspension began Oct. 11, she said. Fannie Mae, which
has a $3.3 trillion book of business, has hired law firm Bradley
Arant Boult Cummings LLP to review Stern’s processes and
operations.  Jeffrey Tew, David Stern’s attorney, said that his client
was “cooperating fully” with the Fannie Mae inquiry and that
the mortgage giant “is doing their due diligence in light of
some things that have been published.”  “The firm is fine with that and we’re happy to let them do
their review,” Tew said.  Freddie Mac , the nation’s second-largest provider of
mortgage financing, has also suspended referrals to Stern’s firm
pending a review, Brad German, a spokesman, said in an e-mail.  The company is “deeply concerned about recent reports that
some law firms handling foreclosure cases may have failed to
follow appropriate legal standards in preparing or filing
documents used in the prosecution of foreclosure cases,” German
said. McLean, Virginia-based Freddie has a $2.2 trillion book of
business.  Merck Vioxx Accord Lead Lawyers to Get $315 Million  A lead group of lawyers will get $315.3 million for doing
most of the work on lawsuits against  Merck & Co.  over its Vioxx
painkiller while other attorneys who filed suits will share
$1.24 billion, a judge ruled.  Lawyers who worked for the so-called common benefit of the
plaintiffs in thousands of lawsuits against Merck deserve 6.5
percent of the $4.85 billion settlement, less than the 8 percent
they initially sought, said U.S. District Judge Eldon Fallon in
New Orleans.  Fallon said in August 2008 that lawyers who sued could
collect as much as 32 percent of the  settlement . The judge ruled
yesterday that the $315.3 million in common-benefit fees will
come from the total legal fees, leaving $1.24 billion for other
lawyers who sued Merck.  “The tension in this case is between the attorneys who
have done common benefit work and the primary attorneys who have
not,” Fallon ruled. “The undeniable fact remains that the
great bulk of the work as well as the expense was borne by the
attorneys who performed common benefit work.”  The lawyers outside the common-benefit group include those
who filed suits on behalf of individual clients.  The settlement, announced in November 2007, resolved almost
50,000 claims of Vioxx users who blamed the drug for heart
attacks, strokes and lesser injuries.  The company reserved $1.9 billion for legal fees.  The case is Vioxx Products Liability Litigation, MDL-1657,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New
Orleans).  For more, click here.  Chicago Lawyer Pleads Guilty in Tax-Shelter Fraud  A Chicago attorney pleaded guilty to conspiracy and tax
evasion charges for his role in a billion-dollar phony tax-
shelter scheme that brought down his law firm in 2007.  Erwin Mayer, 47, a former attorney at the defunct law firm
 Jenkens & Gilchrist , faces as long as 10 years in prison at his
sentencing, scheduled for Feb. 10 before U.S. District Judge
William H. Pauley in Manhattan.  “I am filled with shame and remorse for what I did,”
Mayer said Oct. 19 in court.  Mayer was one of seven people indicted in June 2009 on
charges of conspiracy and tax evasion for their roles in
marketing the phony shelters from 1994 to 2005. Prosecutors said
the defendants used the shelters to generate more than $7.32
billion in fraudulent tax losses for at least 931 wealthy
individuals.  Jenkins & Gilchrist in 2005 agreed to pay $81.6 million to
clients who sued over its tax-shelter advice. In March 2007, the
firm avoided prosecution by admitting it developed and marketed
tax shelters that generated more than $1 billion in phony
losses, and then shut down.  The case is U.S. v. Daugerdas, 1:09-cr-00581, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 