-- Oil Declines as Chinese Demand Growth Slows, Dollar Rebounds Versus Euro
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2010-10-21T20:08:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/oil-declines-as-chinese-refinery-demand-growth-slows-to-least-in-18-months.html
Crude fell as China’s oil processing
grew the least in 18 months after government measures to cool
the economy reduced fuel consumption, and as the dollar
rebounded against the euro.  Oil dropped 2.4 percent following data from China Mainland
Marketing Research Co. that showed refineries in the world’s
biggest energy-consuming country processed about 8.5 million
barrels a day in September. That’s a 6.6 percent gain from a
year earlier, the smallest increase since March 2009. A rising
U.S. currency curbs the investment appeal of commodities.  “The Chinese data has raised concerns about emerging
market demand,” said  Jason Schenker , the president of Prestige
Economics LLC, an Austin, Texas-based energy consultant. “The
dollar’s gain has contributed to today’s drop.”  Crude oil for December delivery fell $1.98 to settle at
$80.56 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Prices are
down 1 percent from a year ago.  Brent crude oil for December settlement declined $1.77, or
2.1 percent, to $81.83 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange.  The Chinese economy grew 9.6 percent in the third quarter
and inflation accelerated to the fastest pace in almost two
years. Consumer prices jumped 3.6 percent in September from a
year earlier, the statistics bureau in Beijing said today.  The expansion in China’s gross domestic product is down
from 10.3 percent in the second quarter and 11.9 percent in the
first three months of the year.  ‘Disappointing Numbers’  “The Chinese numbers didn’t knock the socks off of oil
traders,” said  Phil Flynn , vice president of research at
PFGBest in Chicago. “You’ve got a China demand premium built
into the oil price. The disappointing numbers overnight,
together with slower GDP growth, higher inflation and higher
interest rates, are putting a damper on bullish sentiment.”  The central bank on Oct. 19 raised the benchmark one-year
lending and deposit rates by 25 basis points, the first increase
since 2007.  “It wasn’t the fundamentals that drove oil into the mid-
$80s,” said  Rick Mueller , director of oil markets at Energy
Security Analysis Inc. in Wakefield, Massachusetts.
“Expectations were getting ahead of reality. The Chinese
headlines were a signal that we can’t always count on their
tremendous growth to support the market.”  Oil surged to $84.43 on Oct. 7, the highest intraday level
since May 4, as the dollar extended its decline against the yen
and euro and applications for U.S. unemployment benefits fell.  Dollar Increase  The U.S. currency rose 0.3 percent against the euro to
$1.3926 today, after earlier dropping as much as 0.6 percent.
The correlation between movements in oil and the euro has been
0.73 over the past year. A reading of 1 would indicate they move
in lock-step.  “We’re starting to see a bit more of a focus on the
fundamentals of the market,” said  Michael Fitzpatrick , a broker
with  MF  Global in New York. “We’ve traded with the stock market
and the dollar lately, but those correlations are starting to
break down.”  G-20 policy makers are meeting in South Korea through Oct.
23 amid concern that countries are pursuing weaker exchange
rates as a route to stronger economic growth, either by limiting
currency gains with interventions like China or by discussing
possible monetary easing, as the U.S. and U.K. have done.  “The G-20 meeting is a wild card as measures may be agreed
to stave off further dollar declines,” said  John Kilduff , a
partner at Again Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge fund
focusing on energy. “For the recent rally to maintain itself,
the monetary punch bowl must be brimming and available.
Otherwise, further declines are likely.”  Commodity Index  The  Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index  of 19 raw materials
dropped 1.2 percent to 295.55. Fifteen of the commodities
declined and four gained. Gold futures for December delivery
fell $18.60, or 1.4 percent, to settle at $1,325.60 an ounce on
the Comex in New York.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will
increase shipments by 1.2 percent in the four weeks to Nov. 6,
according to  Oil Movements , which monitors tanker charters. The
group will ship 23.33 million barrels a day during the period,
the Halifax, England-based consultant said in a report.  Global oil consumption typically rises in the fourth
quarter as the Northern Hemisphere winter stokes demand for
heating fuels.  Oil volume on the Nymex was 552,131 contracts as of 3:21
p.m. in electronic trading in New York. Volume totaled 750,891
contracts yesterday, 8.2 percent above the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.41 million contracts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mark Shenk  in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 