-- Molycorp, Lynas May Add to Gains as China Restricts Supply of Rare Earths
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2010-10-21T04:14:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/molycorp-lynas-may-add-to-gains-as-china-restricts-supply-of-rare-earths.html
China’s clampdown on exports of rare
earths essential for the electronics and new-energy industries
may create a windfall for a handful of Western companies seeking
to benefit from surging global demand.  Molycorp Inc. , owner of the world’s largest non-Chinese
deposit of rare-earth metals, and  Lynas Corp.  both plan to open
mines in the next two years to meet the demand, forecast by the
Chinese Rare Earths Industry Association to gain by almost two-
thirds by 2015. Their shares have more than doubled this half,
tracking gains in prices for rare earths that are used in the
manufacture of disk drives, wind turbines and smart bombs.  “There’re only two genuine new companies coming on-stream
that can offer a meaningful level of production and that’s
Molycorp in the States and Lynas in Australia,”  Hunter Hillcoat ,
an analyst at Investec Bank Australia Ltd., said by phone from
Sydney. The risk is “you have to assume they can bring on
production seamlessly and that the price is still at the same
level by the time they’re in production,” he said.  China, producer of more than 90 percent of the world’s rare
earths, reduced its second-half export quota for the minerals by
72 percent in July and is now further restricting exports in the
$1.2 billion market, according to industry participants.  Prices 
for some of the minerals jumped as much as sevenfold in the past
six months, prompting companies including Glencore International
AG, the biggest commodities trader, to seek to restart and open
mines.  Mothballed Mine  Molycorp plans to restart a mothballed California mine in
the second half of 2011 and produce about 20,000 metric tons of
rare earth oxides by the end of 2012. The Mountain Pass mine met
almost all the world’s rare-earth metals demand before closing
eight years ago. The company may double its planned capacity to
40,000 metric tons, it said Oct. 19. The Greenwood Village,
Colorado-based company has surged 144 percent since raising $394
million in a July initial public offering.  Sydney-based Lynas  plans to start production from its A$550
million ($541 million) Mt. Weld project in the third quarter
next year with initial output of 11,000 metric tons a year,
which will double to 22,000 tons by the end of 2012, it said
Sept. 28. Its share have soared 210 percent this year.  “Lynas is in a good position because it signed a number
of” sales agreements,  Andrew Sullivan , an analyst at BBY Ltd.,
said from Sydney. “It definitely has first-mover advantage for
Western or non-Chinese rare earths users that are looking to
diversify. The same could be said about Molycorp. It’s got
agreements in place for quite a bit of its production.”  Australian Block  Australia in September last year blocked China Non-Ferrous
Metal Mining (Group) Co. from buying a majority stake in Lynas.
It blocked a A$2.6 billion bid by state-owned China Minmetals
Corp. for OZ Minerals Ltd. in March 2009 on national-security
concerns.  Rare earths are 17 chemically similar elements, including
neodymium and dysprosium. The oxides are used in the production
of equipment for  General Dynamics Corp. ’s M1A2 Abrams tank and
Aegis SPY-1 radar made by Lockheed Martin Corp.  Global demand for rare earths will rise to about 225,000
tons by 2015, compared with 125,000 tons this year, Molycorp
Chief Executive Officer  Mark A. Smith  said this week in an
interview, citing research from  Roskill , a U.K.-based metals and
minerals research company. By 2015, China will produce 175,000
tons of the minerals, leaving a gap of about 50,000 tons a year
to be filled mainly by Molycorp and Lynas, he said.  Prices have climbed sevenfold in the last six months for
cerium oxide, which is used for polishing semiconductors, and
other elements have more than doubled, according to  Metal-Pages
Ltd.  in London, which tracks rare-earth prices.  ‘Small Market’  “It is still a relatively small market compared to other
commodity markets, but the growth in it is a lot stronger,”
said  Mark Pervan , head of commodity research at Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. “I suspect there will be a price
pressure on that market to see a supply response.”  Contributing to the rise in prices is an expectation of
further restrictions. China will probably tighten export
controls next year,  Shigeo Nakamura , president of Advanced
Material Japan Corp., said at a conference in China yesterday.
China said the quota reduction was needed in order to shut
polluting mines and still be able to meet domestic demand.  “The big impact is what’s going to happen in the medium
term, over the two to four years” in terms of supply, said
 Dudley Kingsnorth , owner and chief executive officer of Perth-
based advisory company Industrial Minerals Co. of Australia. “I
can’t see any major project being in production before 2015,
2016, apart from Lynas’ Mt. Weld and Molycorp’s Mountain Pass.
There will be opportunities for other companies in the latter
half of this decade.”  Arafura, Alkane  Arafura Resources Ltd.  and  Alkane Resources Ltd.  are two
other Australian companies that may attract investors, said
BBY’s Sullivan. Arafura said this month it’s in talks to raise
funds for its rare earth project. The Perth-based company, in
which East China Exploration and Development Bureau has the
largest stake with 22.2 percent, is planning to produce 22,000
tons a year of rare earth oxides from 2013.  “If you have higher risk appetite, Arafura is more
attractive,” BBY’s Sullivan said. Its project is less advanced
than those of Molycorp and Lynas, he said.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Perth at 
 Jscott14@bloomberg.net 
 Elisabeth Behrmann  in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 