-- Hong Kong's Consumer Prices Rose 2.6% in September, Slower Than Estimated
-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 2010-10-21T08:51:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/hong-kong-s-consumer-prices-rose-2-6-in-september-slower-than-estimated.html
Hong Kong’s inflation held above 2
percent for a second month in September as rental prices rose.  Consumer prices gained 2.6 percent from a year earlier,
after rising 3 percent in August, the government said today on
its website. That was slower than the median 3 percent estimate
of 12 economists in a Bloomberg News  survey .  Inflationary pressure may “build up further” this year
should there be a more-than-estimated gain in housing rentals
amid a “property-market rally,” the Hong Kong Monetary
Authority said in a  report  last month. The yuan’s appreciation
would also push up prices through imports, according to the de
facto central bank.  “The rising private housing rentals and a weakening
currency would add pressure on prices,”  Joanne Yim , a Hong
Kong-based economist at Hang Seng Bank Ltd., said before today’s
report. Yim predicts inflation will accelerate to 5.4 percent in
September next year.  The Chinese yuan has gained more than 2 percent against the
U.S. dollar since June 19, when the central bank said it would
pursue a more flexible exchange rate. Hong Kong’s currency is
pegged to the U.S. dollar.  One-off government measures such as electricity subsidies
and waivers of property rates and public housing rentals may
have distorted the city’s inflation numbers. Excluding such
effects, inflation was 2.2 percent last month, compared with 1.9
percent in August, today’s report showed.  Inflation excluding the effect of government stimulus
measures may rise further because of “brisk growth” in the
local economy and “elevated” import prices, the government
said in today’s release.  Hong Kong private housing rentals in 73 major home estates
rose 16.7 percent in September from a year earlier, real estate
broker  Centaline Property Agency Ltd.  said earlier this month.  The  Asian Development Bank  last month raised its inflation
forecast for Hong Kong this year to 2.6 percent from April’s
estimate of 2.2 percent. Hong Kong’s government in August kept
its forecast for full-year inflation at 2.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sophie Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  