-- LontohCoal Seeks to Raise $500 Million From Hong Kong Initial Offering
-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 2010-10-21T13:47:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/lontohcoal-of-south-africa-aims-to-raise-500-million-in-hong-kong-ipo.html
LontohCoal , a closely held South
African miner, said it plans to raise between $300 million and
$500 million from an initial public offering in Hong Kong.  The company, based in Johannesburg, may sell shares in Hong
Kong as early as the first half of 2011, spokeswoman Lizelle du
Toit said by phone from the South African commercial capital
today. Investors in Hong Kong “understand the risk of doing
business” in Zimbabwe, where LontohCoal has one of its three
mines, she said.  LontohCoal has two coal mines in South Africa and a 51
percent stake in the Lubimbi project in Zimbabwe, according to
the company’s website. Lubimbi has estimated reserves of 1.2
billion metric tons of high-quality thermal and coking coal in a
planned open-cast mine, it said.  Funds from the IPO will be used to develop LontohCoal’s
mines in South Africa’s KwaZulu-Natal and Limpopo provinces, as
well Lubimbi, where production is expected to start in May next
year, du Toit said.  The company “doesn’t foresee” problems
with a law in Zimbabwe under which all companies must sell 51
percent of their local assets to black Zimbabweans, she said.  “We believe South Africa’s bi-lateral protection agreement
with Zimbabwe will protect our investment, and meetings with
Zimbabwean government officials have given us added
confidence,” said Du Toit. She declined to say how much the
company is likely to invest in Zimbabwe.  LontohCoal plans to invest a total of $50 million to $60
million over the next six months, Chief Executive Officer Tshepo
Kgadima said in an e-mailed statement today. He cited production
targets of 70,000 tons per month of anthracite coal, 80,000 tons
of coking coal and 140,000 tons of thermal coal.  Zimbabwe’s biggest coal miner is  Hwange Colliery Co. Ltd. ,
followed by  RioZim Ltd ., which mines the country’s Sengwa field.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Latham  in Durban at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  