-- Morgan Stanley Begins Clearing Rate Swaps Through CME
-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n   a n d   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2010-10-21T22:04:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/morgan-stanley-begins-clearing-interest-rate-swaps-through-cme.html
Morgan Stanley, owner of the world’s
largest brokerage, said it started clearing interest rate swaps
for customers this week through  CME Group Inc.   Morgan Stanley is the third bank to announce it’s clearing
swaps transactions through Chicago-based CME on behalf of money
manager clients, as regulators write rules that will mandate
that much of the privately negotiated derivatives market be
backed by clearinghouses such as CME. The New York-based bank
said it also plans to begin clearing client trades through
London-based LCH.Clearnet’s SwapClear and credit-default swaps
through Intercontinental Exchange Inc.’s clearinghouse,
according to an e-mailed statement today.  The Dodd-Frank Act, signed into law by President  Barack Obama  in July, mandates that most interest-rate, credit-default
and other swaps be processed by central counterparties and
traded on exchanges or similar systems, taking business from the
Wall Street banks that pioneered the transactions. All trades in
the  over-the-counter market  will be reported to regulators.
Dealers and their biggest clients will face higher capital
requirements to use the market.  “We are focusing resources where we see client demand,”
 Stephen O’Connor , a managing director and head of Morgan
Stanley’s counterparty portfolio management group, said today in
a telephone interview. “Central clearing is going to be the
law. People are now on a more accelerated timeline.”  Deutsche Bank, Citigroup  Clearinghouses, which are capitalized by their members,
increase stability in OTC derivatives markets because they
lessen the effect of a default by sharing the risk among the
members and use daily margining procedures to keep accounts
current. The central counterparties, or CCPs also allow
regulators to see market positions and prices.  “‘We have to do our own due diligence,” O’Connor said.
“The CCPs are the new too-big-to-fail institutions. The risk
management of the CCPs is paramount. They are already the
biggest counterparties in the market and there’s going to be
massive concentration at three or four CCPs to begin with.”  Deutsche Bank AG and Citigroup Inc. have also said they
started clearing interest-rate swaps with CME this week.  CME Group cleared $407.5 million in interest-rate swaps in
its first three days of operation, said  Michael Shore , a
spokesman.  Bilateral Rate Swaps  Participants in the CME Group plan include Freddie Mac,
Fannie Mae, Pacific Investment Management Co.,  BlackRock Inc. 
and Citadel LLC, the Chicago-based company said in an Oct. 18
statement. Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae have more than $1 trillion
of bilateral rate swaps between them. Morgan Stanley didn’t
disclose the names of the money managers for which it cleared
swaps nor the size of the trades. Deutsche Bank said it cleared
a swap with Citadel LLC. Citigroup didn’t name its counterparty.  CME Group will compete with  International Derivatives
Clearing Group LLC , majority owned by  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.  and
with  LCH.Clearnet  clearing trades in the $349 trillion interest-
rate swap market. Rate swaps make up the biggest class of over-
the-counter derivatives.  Banks already clear rate-swap trades among themselves
through LCH.Clearnet and credit swaps through Intercontinental’s
ICE Trust.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shannon D. Harrington  in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Leising  in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 