-- Osborne Says King May Act If U.K. Deficit Cut Leads to Slump
-- B y   A n d r e w   A t k i n s o n
-- 2010-10-21T15:26:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/osborne-says-boe-s-king-may-act-on-easing-if-lower-deficit-leads-to-slump.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  signaled that he’s counting on Bank of England Governor
 Mervyn King  to temper any economic slump that might be triggered
by the government’s deficit-reduction effort.  The austerity plan Osborne announced yesterday has “some
caution built in to it and there is of course the freedom for
the Bank of England to deploy monetary-policy tools as well,”
Osborne told BBC Radio 4’s “Today” show.  Osborne’s comments come as minutes of this month’s Bank of
England rate decision, published yesterday, suggest that policy
makers are leaning toward expanding emergency bond purchases.
The bank has spent 200 billion pounds ($316 billion) in a
program called quantitative easing.  Two-year government notes rose, driving the yield down 2
basis points to 0.574 percent, close to the lowest on record, at
4 p.m. in London. Yields on 10-year gilts fell 5 basis points to
2.93 percent and the pound slid 0.8 percent against the euro to
88.81 pence.  “The risk of renewed quantitative easing makes sterling a
sell,”  Mansoor Mohi-uddin , head of global currency strategy at
UBS in Singapore, wrote to clients today. “Monetary policy may
have to be loosened again sharply to support the economy.”  Bank of England policy maker  David Miles  said that while
he’s “guardedly optimistic” about the economic outlook, the
bank still has “weapons” at its disposal, according to an
interview with the Stoke-on-Trent-based Sentinel newspaper
published on its  website .  Spending Cuts  Osborne yesterday detailed spending cuts to shrink the
 budget deficit  to 2 percent of economic output by 2015 from more
than 10 percent today. The plan may lead to the loss of half a
million public-sector jobs.  The Bank of England held its benchmark interest rate at a
record low of 0.5 percent this month. Policy makers split three
ways over whether to add more stimulus, with  Adam Posen  voting
to restart asset purchases and  Andrew Sentance  demanding an
interest-rate increase to keep inflation in check. King signaled
earlier this week he may be open to stepping up asset purchases
to prevent deflationary pressures from emerging.  “It has become a popular view in the market that we will
have another round of QE,” said  Alan Clarke , an economist at
BNP Paribas SA in London. “It seems to be a matter of when and
not if.”  The Labour Party, which lost power to Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s Conservative-led coalition in May, said the cuts risk
derailing a recovery already showing signs of cooling.  Sales Fall  U.K. retail sales dropped in September for a second month
as consumers curbed spending on items from clothing to gasoline,
the Office for National Statistics in London said today.  “If we don’t go back into double-dip recession we’re going
to be knocking along the bottom for some time,” Labour’s
Treasury spokesman,  Alan Johnson , told  Francine Lacqua  on
Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move” program today.
Quantitative easing was now “back on the agenda,” he said.  Osborne’s reliance on welfare cuts to balance the budget
left some economists and analysts doubting he will achieve his
goals. The chancellor yesterday outlined an extra 7 billion
pounds of savings from the social-security bill, spending over
which the government lacks total control.  Cameron and Osborne say their austerity program is keeping
interest rates low and securing the nation’s top-grade credit
rating. Their challenge is to persuade markets they will meet
their targets while also convincing voters and their Liberal
Democrat coalition partners that the cuts are worth the pain.  ‘No Room for Error’  “Basically, there’s no room for error,” said  Peter Dixon ,
an economist at Commerzbank AG in London. “The likelihood is
that something will go wrong. Even if it doesn’t, and we’re on
track, and the costs of putting the fiscal squeeze in place are
quite high, the coalition may start to have differing views on
whether a tough fiscal stance may be maintained.”  The Institute for Fiscal Studies said that with the
exception of the richest 2 percent of the population, the
poorest will be hit proportionately harder than the better off.
Families with children are the biggest losers, it said.  The measures may not be enough to erase the structural
deficit and further spending cuts or tax increases may be
needed, the London-based research group said today. “The
chancellor would be best advised to have a Plan B in his
pocket,” said IFS Acting Director  Carl Emmerson .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Atkinson  in London at 
 a.atkinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  