-- Moscow Mayor Sobyanin Vows to Tackle City's Gridlock, Deficit, Corruption
-- B y   L u c i a n   K i m   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2010-10-21T14:09:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/moscow-mayor-sobyanin-vows-to-tackle-city-s-gridlock-deficit-corruption.html
Sergei Sobyanin , Russian Prime
Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s former chief of staff, became Moscow
mayor today with a vow to tackle the city’s gridlock, widening
budget deficit and corruption.  Sobyanin replaces  Yury Luzhkov , whom Medvedev fired last
month after 18 years running Europe’s largest city. He was
inaugurated after earlier winning the approval of the Moscow
city council, where Putin’s United Russia party holds 32 out of
35 seats.  “Step by step we’ll fix the city’s problems,” Sobyanin
said on state television after the Moscow City Duma approved his
nomination by President  Dmitry Medvedev . “At the very least
we’ll continuously improve the situation.”  The Moscow mayor, like the leaders of Russia’s regions, is
essentially appointed by the Kremlin, after then-President Putin
abolished direct gubernatorial elections in 2004. Forty-six
percent of Muscovites would prefer electing their mayor in a
direct vote, while 8 percent agree with the current system,
according to  a poll  published by the Levada Center last week.  While Sobyanin was relieved of his duties on the federal
level, he promised to remain in Putin’s “big team” during a
government meeting today. Medvedev named  Vyacheslav Volodin , 46,
a senior United Russia functionary, to replace Sobyanin as
Putin’s chief of staff and deputy prime minister.  ‘Loss of Confidence’  Medvedev said at the inauguration ceremony that Sobyanin
will have to work “24 hours a day” to maintain the standard of
living Moscow has achieved since the 1990s and to help turn the
city into the financial center for Eurasia.  Sobyanin, a former Siberian governor whom Putin brought to
Moscow in 2005, inherits a raft of problems that caused Medvedev
to dismiss his predecessor for a “loss of confidence.” In the
weeks before his firing, Luzhkov, 74, was attacked by state
television for traffic jams and the fortune of his wife  Yelena Baturina , Russia’s richest woman. Finance Minister  Alexei Kudrin 
has said Moscow should sell assets to plug its 120 billion ruble
($3.9 billion) deficit.  Transportation problems are the capital’s number one
concern, shared by 42 percent of Muscovites, according to  a poll
published yesterday  by the All-Russian Center for the Study of
Public Opinion, or VTsIOM. Inflation came in second place,
concerning 28 percent of the capital’s residents.  Bribery, Red Tape  Sixty-six percent of Muscovites questioned by the  Levada
Center  said they expect corruption and abuse of power to remain
the same. Fifty-eight percent said Medvedev should follow up on
corruption accusations leveled against Luzhkov.  Sobyanin promised today to improve Moscow’s investment
climate, which he said had been damaged by bribery, red tape,
traffic jams and lack of transparent management. He also
criticized Luzhkov for spending beyond the city’s means.  The new mayor, acknowledging that he wasn’t directly
elected by voters, thanked Muscovites for the confidence they
showed him via their council members.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lucian Kim  in Moscow at 
 lkim3@bloomberg.net ;
 Lyubov Pronina  in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  