-- House of Lords Suspends Three Lawmakers for Expense Claims Breaching Rules
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2010-10-21T14:43:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/house-of-lords-suspends-three-lawmakers-for-expense-claims-breaching-rules.html
Three members of the U.K. House of
Lords were suspended over their expenses claims after lawmakers
backed the recommendations of an investigation which found they
gave incorrect addresses for their homes.  Amirali Bhatia ,  Pola Uddin  and  Swraj Paul  all breached
rules about the designation of their main properties, a probe by
the Privileges Committee of Parliament’s upper house concluded.  Uddin was suspended until the end of the parliamentary
session in April 2012 and was ordered to repay 125,349 pounds
($197,688), while Bhatia was suspended for eight months and Paul
for four months. Bhatia and Paul have already repaid money that
was wrongly claimed.  “All three peers concerned fell short of the standard of
conduct that the house and the public are entitled to expect,
and we must as a house act decisively,”  Thomas Strathclyde , the
leader of the House of Lords, told lawmakers in London today.
“The public expect us to react with firmness and unity to
demonstrate our abhorrence at wrongdoing.”  Bhatia and Uddin were found to have been acting in good
faith when they made the claims, the committee said. While Paul,
founder and chairman of Caparo Industries Plc, also acted in
good faith, his actions “were utterly unreasonable, and
demonstrated gross irresponsibility and negligence,” it said.  Uddin had identified an apartment in Maidstone, southeast
England, as her main residence for travel and expenses purposes.
Bhatia said his main home was in Reigate, in an apartment
occupied by his brother. Paul claimed for a flat in a hotel in
Oxfordshire owned by Caparo Holdings, even though he said he’d
never spent a night there. The committee found all three lived
in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Penny  in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 