-- Joseph Lents Dodged Foreclosure for 8 Years, Started a Movement
-- B y   P e t e r   C o y ,   P a u l   M .   B a r r e t t   a n d   C h a d   T e r h u n e
-- 2010-10-21T17:28:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/how-joseph-lents-dodged-foreclosure-for-eight-years-and-started-a-movement.html
In 2002, an accountant in  Boca
Raton ,  Florida , named Joseph Lents was accused of securities-law
violations by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Lents, who was chief executive officer of a now-defunct voice-
recognition software company, had sold shares in the public
company without filing the proper forms. Facing a little over
$100,000 in fines and fees, and with his assets frozen by the
SEC, Lents stopped making payments on his $1.5 million mortgage.  The loan servicer,  Washington  Mutual Inc., tried to
foreclose on his home in 2003 but was never able to produce
Lents’s promissory note, so the state circuit court for Palm
Beach County dismissed the case. Next, the buyer of the loan,
DLJ Mortgage Capital, stepped in with another foreclosure
proceeding. DLJ claimed to have lost the promissory note in
interoffice mail. Lents was dubious.  “When you say you lose a $1.5 million negotiable
instrument -- that doesn’t happen,” he said in an interview in
 Bloomberg Businessweek ’s Oct. 25 issue.  DLJ claimed that its word was as good as paper. But at
least in Palm Beach County, paper still rules. If his mortgage
holder couldn’t prove it held his mortgage, it couldn’t
foreclose.  Eight years after defaulting, Lents still hasn’t made a
payment or been forced out of his house. DLJ, whose parent,
Credit Suisse Group AG, declined to comment for this story,
still hasn’t proved its ownership to the satisfaction of the
court. Lents’s debt has grown to about $2.5 million, including
unpaid taxes, interest and penalties.  The Lents Defense  As the stalemate grinds on, Lents has the comfort of
knowing he’s no longer alone. When he began demanding to see the
IOU, he says, “I was looked upon like I had leprosy. Now, I
have probably 20 to 30 people a month come to me” asking for
advice. Lents is irked when people accuse him of exploiting a
loophole. “It’s not a loophole,” he says. “It’s the law.”  The Lents Defense, as it might be called, doesn’t work
everywhere. Thousands of Floridians have lost their homes in
lightning-fast “rocket dockets.” In 27 other states, judges
don’t even review foreclosures, making it harder for homeowners
to fight back. Now, allegations of carelessness and outright
fraud in foreclosures have become so widespread that attorneys
general in all 50 states are investigating. So are the feds.  Even if the documentation problems turn out to be
manageable -- as  Bank of America Corp . and others insist they
will be -- the economy will still suffer long-term consequences
from the loose underwriting that caused the subprime-housing
bubble.  $1.1 Trillion  According to an Oct. 15 report by JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
securities unit, some $2 trillion of the $6 trillion in U.S.
mortgages and home-equity loans that were securitized during the
height of the bubble, from 2005 through 2007, are likely to go
into default. The report says the housing bust will ultimately
cause losses of $1.1 trillion on those bonds.  While banks and investors take their hits, millions of
homeowners continue to be punished by unaffordable mortgage
payments and underwater home values.  Laurie Goodman , a mortgage
analyst at Amherst Securities Group LP in  New York , said in an
Oct. 1 report that if government doesn’t step up its
intervention, more than 11 million borrowers are in danger of
losing their homes. That’s one in five people with a mortgage.  “Politically,” she wrote, “this cannot happen. The
government will attempt successive modification plans until
something works.”  Fight Over Losses  Wall Street’s unspoken strategy has been to kick mortgage
losses down the road until an economic recovery reinflates the
housing market. The faulty-foreclosure crisis has forced the
issue back into the present tense, triggering a fight over who
will bear the brunt of those losses. The list of combatants --
all of whom are trying to minimize their share of the damage --
is long: homeowners, lenders and mortgage brokers, loan
servicers, underwriters of mortgage-backed securities and buyers
of those securities, title insurers, ratings firms, and the
federally controlled mortgage buyers  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac .  While JPMorgan predicts that bondholders will absorb most
of the estimated $1.1 trillion loss, they may succeed in
foisting about $55 billion on banks. If the bank losses turn out
to be steeper than JPMorgan and most other analysts expect,
taxpayers may be asked to inject more capital into the financial
institutions. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, already wards of the
state, might require more capital as well, the Federal Housing
Finance Agency said in an Oct. 21 report.  Careless Lending, Recordkeeping  The past five years of rising foreclosures, to the highest
rate since the Great Depression, have exposed the carelessness
with which banks lent money. The banks figured they could always
seize ownership and resell at a profit, assuming they hadn’t
already dumped the loan on an unwary investor. And they wouldn’t
let technicalities impede the process. The website
4closurefraud.com, which is operated by the Carol C. Asbury Save
My Home Law Group, has links to documents from Nassau County,
New York, in which someone entered “BOGUS” as the grantee for
the mortgage, or the party entitled to foreclose.  During the housing boom, transactions were flowing so fast
that banks couldn’t keep up with the paperwork. The mortgage
industry depended on a digital overlay of its own invention,
Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems, a database whose
owners include Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, Bank of America,  Citigroup Inc .’s CitiMortgage, JPMorgan’s Chase Home Mortgage,
Wells Fargo & Co. and title insurers. No matter who bought the
loan, MERS was purported to be the mortgagee, or party that
would foreclose if a borrower stopped paying.  Assault on the System  Of all newly issued U.S. mortgages, 60 percent list MERS --
a unit of Reston, Virginia-based MERSCorp that has no employees
of its own -- as the mortgagee.  “It’s a total attack on the public system,” says
Christopher L. Peterson, a law professor at the University of
Utah in Salt Lake City who has consulted in cases against MERS.  As MERS sped up loan processing, it created a giant legal
hairball. According to Peterson, state judges in Kansas,
Arkansas and Maine have said that MERS has no standing in
foreclosure proceedings under their states’ laws if they can’t
produce the promissory note. In early October, a federal judge
in Oregon blocked Bank of America as trustee from foreclosing on
a home in the MERS system.  Karmela Lejarde, a MERS spokeswoman, says its standing has
always been upheld, “either in the initial court proceeding or
upon appeal.”  Judges also resent that would-be foreclosers show up in
court representing themselves as vice presidents of MERS even
though they work for various loan servicers. Fixing the
paperwork won’t be easy because many of the notes have been lost
or even deliberately shredded.  Documents Destroyed  The Florida Bankers Association told the state  Supreme
Court  last year that in many cases “the physical document was
deliberately eliminated to avoid confusion immediately upon its
conversion to an electronic file.”  Beyond the losses to banks, investors and homeowners from
the housing crisis, there is an incalculable psychic cost of a
legal system that may well have let banks skirt the law.  “The whole financial system is becoming a lot less
transparent,” says Hernando de Soto, a Peruvian economist who
has written on the importance of well-defined property rights.
“You can’t size up risk anymore.”  It’s a perfect October day on the Jacksonville, Florida,
campus of  Lender Processing Services Inc ., and Greg Whitworth, a
division president, is rallying a crowd of 200 employees inside
a big white tent on the sun-drenched banks of the St. Johns
River.  Year of the Megas  “We are killing our competition!” Whitworth says. The
company is celebrating what it calls “the Year of the Megas”
-- key customers Bank of America, Wells Fargo and JPMorgan Chase
-- with a picnic of Mediterranean chicken salad, lemon cooler
cookies and sweet tea.  LPS, as the company is known, is the biggest U.S. mortgage-
and-foreclosure outsourcing firm. Last year its revenue from
default services climbed to $1.1 billion. Its nearest rival,
Santa Ana, California-based  CoreLogic Inc ., takes in less than
half of that.  One gray patch hovers over the celebration: The back-office
technology provider’s runaway success means it is tangled up in
the foreclosure crisis.  “I was thinking about the dark clouds over the company,”
Joe Nackashi, the chief information officer, tells the crowd.
“Sure, we have made mistakes. But I don’t want to let that
cloud this day.”  Plumbing Breaks  LPS supplies much of the digital plumbing for the
convoluted home-finance system. At the start of 2010, it said
its computer programs were handling 28 million loans with a
total principal balance of more than $4.7 trillion -- or more
than half the nation’s outstanding mortgage balances. With 8,900
employees and revenue of $2.4 billion, it sells software and
manpower to most of the largest U.S. lenders and loan servicers.  “The banks were not prepared for this volume of
foreclosures, and that has played to the company’s advantage as
the outsourcer,” says Brett Horn, associate director of equity
research at Chicago-based Morningstar Inc.  The industry uses LPS computer programs and sometimes LPS
employees to code, store and transfer many mortgage records.
When things work smoothly, mortgage servicers rely on LPS
software to help monitor payments. When homeowners fall behind,
LPS helps assemble the information needed to foreclose.  Assembly Line  As described in an in-house newsletter published in
September 2006 by Fidelity National Foreclosure Solutions, a
predecessor of LPS, a single 18-person “document execution”
team brings Henry Ford’s mass-production techniques to the
foreclosure business.  “The document execution team is set up like a production
line, ensuring that each document request is resolved within 24
hours,” the newsletter said. “On average, the team will
execute 1,000 documents per day.”  That was four years ago, when the foreclosure rate was a
quarter what it is now. It was when some of those documents
proved difficult to track down that trouble set in. If a
foreclosure lawyer working on behalf of a bank or servicer asked
LPS for an errant mortgage, some company workers may have gone
to extremes to keep the foreclosure assembly line moving,
according to prosecutors and plaintiffs’ lawyers. The Florida
attorney general’s office has alleged that in some cases,
corners may have been cut, signatures forged and documents
backdated. Industry employees have said in sworn depositions
that “robo-signers” executed paperwork without reviewing it.  Florida Investigation  The U.S. Attorney’s Office in Tampa and the state of
Florida are investigating whether LPS and affiliated companies
have fabricated documents and faked signatures. LPS employees
“seem to be creating and manufacturing ‘bogus assignments’ of
mortgage in order that foreclosures may go through more quickly
and efficiently,” the Florida Attorney General’s Office says in
an online description of its civil investigation. “We’re
concerned that people might be put out of their houses unfairly
and unjustly,” Bill McCollum, the attorney general, told
Bloomberg Businessweek.  In a third investigation, the U.S. Trustee Program, the
branch of the Justice Department that polices bankruptcies, is
looking into whether LPS is “improperly directing legal
action” to hasten foreclosures, according to a 2009 opinion
issued by the bankruptcy court in Philadelphia. A Trustee
spokeswoman declined to comment.  “The system is so organized that there is a company,
Lender Processing Services, who allegedly has created the means
to systemize fraud,” U.S. Representative Alan Grayson, a
Florida Democrat, said Sept. 29, on the House.  Fee Splitting  Foreclosure-defense lawyers have filed suit against LPS in
Mississippi and Kentucky, seeking class-action status and
accusing the company of improperly splitting fees with pro-
foreclosure lawyers. LPS fell 33 percent this year through
yesterday in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. That
compares with the 12 percent increase by the Standard & Poor’s
400 Midcap Index.  LPS executives acknowledge slip-ups, but nothing amounting
to fraud. In a federal securities filing in February, the
company said it had “identified a business process that caused
an error in the notarization of certain documents, some of which
were used in foreclosure proceedings.” LPS says it fixed the
problem and closed the subsidiary in  Georgia  where it occurred.  As for the processing team described in the in-house
newsletter, Michelle Kersch, an LPS spokeswoman, says the
company decided such affidavit-execution services were “not an
appropriate use of resources,” and ended them in September
2008. Still, LPS “signs a limited number of documents for
clients,” including assignments of mortgage, she said.  Isolated Errors  “We are dealing with sensationalism versus facts,”
Jeffrey S. Carbiener, the company’s chief executive officer,
told analysts in an Oct. 6 conference call. “Isolated instances
of errors” are bound to occur, but they “are now being brought
out and pointed back to that robo-signing, making it sound like
a large percentage of these transactions are invalid. That is
just simply not the case.” He called the class-action suits
“fishing expeditions.”  To keep the paperwork moving, LPS uses a variety of
incentives. Top-performing workers receive monthly “Drive for
Pride” awards that sometimes include $500 in company stock and
a spot in an underground parking garage. LPS also devised a
coding system to grade outside foreclosure attorneys based on
their speed in completing tasks. Fast-acting attorneys receive
green ratings; slower lawyers are labeled yellow or red and may
receive fewer assignments.  Fidelity National  “Bill will move quickly and expect you to be there to pull
your weight,” says Jerry Mallot, executive vice president of
the Jacksonville Regional Chamber of Commerce. “I wouldn’t call
the environment at his company kind and genteel.”  Bill is William P. Foley II, a 65-year-old West Point
graduate, real estate lawyer and wealthy vintner. He made a
fortune assembling the country’s largest title-insurance
company, beginning with his purchase in 1984 of Fidelity
National Title. By 2003, Fidelity National, then based in  Santa
Barbara , California, had $10 billion in annual revenue and 32
percent of the U.S. title-insurance market. Frustrated by the
high cost of operating in  California , Foley was convinced by
Mallot and then-Florida Governor Jeb Bush, an occasional golfing
companion, to relocate to Jacksonville. A spokeswoman said
Foley, who left the LPS board last year, wasn’t available to
comment.  Growing Dismay  Spun off in 2008, LPS is one of the city’s largest
employers, with 2,400 local workers. Its headquarters is in a
12-story office building on palm-lined Riverside Avenue, part of
a complex that also houses Fidelity National Financial, the
original title insurer, and Fidelity National Information
Services, a 2006 spinoff now called FIS.  Foley and his wife, Carol, split time between a home in
Jacksonville’s Ponte Vedra Beach, a ranch in Whitefish, Montana,
and California, where Foley owns seven wineries. His
compensation last year from LPS and the Fidelity National
companies was $45.9 million, according to company filings.  The growth of LPS and other foreclosure outsourcing has
dismayed even some professionals deeply involved in the process.
Judge Diane Weiss Sigmund of the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Philadelphia last year published an unusual 58-page opinion
scrutinizing LPS because, she said, she wished “to share my
education” with others in the system “who may be similarly
unfamiliar with the extent that a third-party intermediary
drives the Chapter 13 process.”  ‘Slavish Adherence’  Her opinion described an attempt by the multinational bank  HSBC Holdings Plc  to foreclose on the home of Niles and Angela
Taylor, who had filed for bankruptcy protection from their
creditors. Judge Sigmund ruled the bank’s outside attorneys
mistakenly tried to take the Taylors’ home because of three
disputed flood-insurance payments totaling $540. She blamed
lawyer incompetence, exacerbated by a “slavish adherence” to
an LPS computer system called NewTrak.  What bothered the judge, she wrote, was the way HSBC and
its lawyers entrusted “the NewTrak system [with] the management
of its defaulted loans in bankruptcy. ... With the HSBC data
uploaded to an LPS system, LPS responds to the perceived needs
of retained counsel. ... The retained counsel does not address
the client directly.”  Overreliance on LPS contributed to six months of
unnecessary hearings, the judge wrote. After she ordered the
parties to settle the issue in person, they did so in just an
hour. HSBC acknowledged that the property didn’t require flood
insurance after all, and the truce cleared the way for
resolution of the Taylors’ bankruptcy plan.  No Punishment  Judge Sigmund, who has since retired, scolded one of HSBC’s
outside lawyers for being too “enmeshed in the assembly line”
of managing foreclosures and ordered her to take extra ethics
training. The judge instructed HSBC to remind all of its lawyers
in writing not to defer excessively to computerized data
systems. LPS, the judge added, didn’t deserve punishment because
the outsourcer had merely provided tools that others misused.  McCollum, the Florida attorney general, suspects that in
other cases LPS is more than an innocent facilitator. In April,
he says a homeowner contacted his office, alleging that LPS
paperwork had been “forged in some way.” His office opened a
civil investigation. While McCollum, a Republican, would not
provide specifics, subpoenas his office issued on Oct. 13 demand
information on six employees of an LPS subsidiary called Docx.  Multiple Titles  The attorney general’s office is investigating whether the
employees had the authority to execute mortgage documents for
lenders and servicers. One employee, Linda Green, at various
times identified herself as a vice president or representative
of more than a dozen different banks and mortgage companies,
according to the subpoena.  “Docx has produced numerous documents, called assignments
of mortgage, that even to the untrained eye appear to be forged
and/or fabricated as the signatures of the same individual vary
wildly from document to document,” the attorney general’s
office says on its website.  LPS disclosed in February that the Tampa U.S. Attorney’s
Office is “reviewing the business processes” of the Docx unit.
April Charney, a senior attorney with Jacksonville Area Legal
Aid and an outspoken critic of LPS, says she was contacted by a
federal prosecutor about the company earlier this year. The
prosecutor informed her in April, she adds, that the Justice
Department was seeking depositions from LPS and Docx employees.  LPS says it shut the Docx unit in April and is cooperating
with investigators.  Good for Business  “We feel like we have taken all appropriate corrective
actions,” Carbiener, the CEO, told analysts on Oct. 6. “We
don’t feel like this is going to have or will have a material
impact on our financial results.”  The foreclosure chaos could be good for business, he said.
Dogged by foreclosure-defense attorneys and government
investigations, lenders and servicers will have to retrace their
steps.  “Those services that we provided initially we’ll provide
again,” Carbiener said. “For those loans that are held in
review, we have the opportunity to earn additional revenues.”  The big banks continue to insist that documentation
problems are the legal equivalent of rounding errors.  On Oct. 18, Bank of America, which suspended foreclosures
in all 50 states, played down that suspension and said it would
resubmit foreclosure affidavits in 23 states after completing a
speedy review of 102,000 files. Citigroup said its foreclosure
process was “sound.”  ‘Blip’  JPMorgan Chase Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  told
investors on Oct. 13, “If you’re talking about three or four
weeks, it will be a blip in the housing market.” He added, “If
it went on for a long period of time, it will have a lot of
consequences, most of which will be adverse on everybody.”  Ohio Attorney General Richard Cordray on Oct. 19 expressed
deep skepticism that Bank of America had managed to complete its
internal review in just 2 1/2 weeks, saying, “I would caution
that they still have significant financial exposure in many,
many cases.”  Even if the homeowners deserve to be foreclosed on,
paperwork problems could stand in the way. Mark J. Grant, a
managing director for structured finance at Dallas-based
Southwest Securities, wrote on Oct. 18 that what may lie ahead
is a “Whangdepootenawah,” a word from Ambrose Bierce’s  Devil’s
Dictionary  meaning “disaster; an unexpected affliction that
strikes hard.”  ‘Retching in the Streets’  Grant wrote, “I doubt that you have followed the
contagion down the path to the end because if you had, if anyone
had ... there would be a lot more retching in the streets and on
Wall Street’s trading desks.”  Even if the IOUs can be straightened out quickly, the
fighting won’t stop. Quoting unnamed sources, the Washington
Post reported on Oct. 19 that the Obama administration’s
Financial Fraud Enforcement Task Force is investigating whether
financial firms committed federal crimes in filing fraudulent
court documents to seize people’s homes.  Meanwhile, a high-stakes fight is breaking out between the
banks that made loans and the investors who bought them. A shot
was fired on Oct. 18 when a group of major investors claimed
that Bank of America’s Countrywide Home Loan Servicing had
failed to live up to its contracts on some of more than $47
billion worth of Countrywide-issued mortgage bonds. The group
said Countrywide Servicing has 60 days to correct the alleged
violations, such as failure to sell back ineligible loans to the
lenders. According to people familiar with the matter, the group
includes Pacific Investment Management Co., BlackRock Inc. and
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.  Loss Estimates  For banks that have just started making money again after
near-death experiences in 2008, mortgage losses could delay the
return to good health. Chris Gamaitoni, an analyst for Compass
Point Research & Trading, a Washington financial advisory firm,
estimates losses for the big banks of $134 billion from having
to buy back bad loans from private investors and another $27
billion in losses from buying back loans from Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac. Other estimates are lower--from $20 billion to $84
billion--in part because those analysts are less certain than
Gamaitoni that investors will succeed in court.  Bank of America, the nation’s largest lender, has resorted
to tough tactics in resisting repurchases of bad loans. Facing
pressure from Freddie Mac, one of the two government-controlled
mortgage-finance companies, to buy back money-losing home loans
with problems like inflated appraisals, overstated borrower
income, or inadequate documentation, Bank of America issued a
blunt threat, according to two people with direct knowledge of
the incident.  Never in Writing  If Freddie Mac didn’t back off its demands for the
buybacks, Bank of America officials said, the bank would take
more of the new, more profitable mortgages it is originating
these days to rival Fannie Mae, these people said. Freddie and
Fannie, known as GSEs for government-sponsored entities, need a
steady supply of healthy new loans to climb out of their
financial hole.  The claimed threat from Bank of America, which wasn’t put
into writing, according to one of these people, was taken
seriously enough that it has been discussed at several Freddie
Mac board meetings, including in mid-October. Some officials
have urged the Federal Housing Finance Agency -- the government
conservator that has controlled Fannie and Freddie since they
were bailed out in 2008 -- to confront Bank of America and
prevent it from trying to play one against the other, which may
be infuriating but is not illegal.  The Dilemma  “If the tactic worked, I’d be shocked and appalled,” said
Thomas Lawler, a former portfolio manager at Fannie Mae and now
an economic consultant. “The GSEs are supposed to be run now to
minimize losses to the taxpayers. Freddie ought to ignore the
threat.”  FHFA Acting Director Edward J. DeMarco declined to comment,
as did officials of Freddie Mac. Bank of America, based in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , also declined to comment.  For policy makers, the dilemma is this: Enormous losses
will cause problems wherever they end up. They could further
harm Fannie and Freddie, which insure the vast majority of the
nation’s mortgages and have already received almost $150 billion
in taxpayer support. Or, if Fannie and Freddie succeed in
pushing the burden back to the banks, the losses could cripple
some of the major institutions that have just emerged from a
government bailout.  Buyback Requests  Bank of America faces $12.9 billion in buyback requests,
and mortgage insurers have asked for the documents on an
additional $9.8 billion on which they may consider seeking
repurchases, according to regulatory filings. Bank of America
has put aside $4.4 billion for buybacks, and CEO  Brian T.
Moynihan  says the costs will be manageable.  “The Treasury is very aware that they can’t push too hard
on this because if you do push too hard it might put the
companies in negative capital again,” says Paul J. Miller, an
analyst at FRB Capital Markets in Arlington, Virginia. “There’s
a lot of regulatory forbearance going on.”  Aside from ignoring banks’ bad debts, the federal
government hasn’t done much to fix the crisis. Both houses of
Congress easily passed a bill this year that would have
undermined centuries of law by requiring every state to
recognize MERS-type electronic records from other states. Only a
pocket veto by President Barack Obama kept it from becoming law.  One option, opposed by Obama and most Republicans in
Congress but favored by Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid and
others, is a national moratorium on foreclosures. It would last
until regulators assure themselves that lenders have
straightened out their foreclosure procedures.  Proposals  Opponents say it would delay the recovery of the housing
market by preventing qualified buyers from getting their hands
on foreclosed homes. Supporters of the idea, such as Dean Baker,
co-director of the Center for Economic and Policy Research in
Washington, say there are plenty of already foreclosed homes
available for sale and thus no urgent need to add to the supply.  Goodman, the Amherst Securities analyst, says banks need to
reduce the principal that people owe on their homes so they have
an incentive not to walk away. “Ignoring the fact that the
borrower can and will default when it is his/her most economical
solution is an expensive case of denial,” Goodman writes. If
the home whose mortgage was reduced happens to regain value, 50
percent of the appreciation would be taxed, she says. Meanwhile,
to discourage people from sitting tight in homes while
foreclosure proceedings drag on, she would have the government
tax the benefit of living in the home rent-free.  Speed Is Needed  CitiMortgage is testing an innovative alternative based on
the legal procedure known as “deed in lieu of foreclosure.”
The owner turns the deed over to the bank without a fight if the
bank promises not to foreclose, lets the family stay in the
house after the agreement for six months and gives relocation
assistance.  In a New York Times blog post on Oct. 19, Harvard
University economist Edward Glaeser suggested federal assistance
to overwhelmed state and local courts, as well as $2,000
vouchers for legal assistance to low-income families that can’t
afford to fight foreclosures. Bloomberg News columnist Kevin Hassett, who is director of economic policy studies at the
American Enterprise Institute in Washington, wrote in his Oct.
18 column that the newly created Financial Stability Oversight
Council should make the foreclosure mess its first big project,
“take authority for solving it, and do so as swiftly as
possible.”  Speed is essential. The longer it drags on, the more the
foreclosure crisis corrodes Americans’ faith in their financial
and legal systems. A pervasive sense of injustice is bad for the
economy and democracy as well. Take Joe Lents. The Boca Raton
homeowner hasn’t made a mortgage payment since 2002, but he
perceives himself as a victim. “I want to expose these guys for
what they’re doing,” Lents says. “It’s personal now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Coy in New York at 
 pcoy3@bloomberg.net ;
Paul M. Barrett in New York at 
 pbarrett17@bloomberg.net ;
Chad Terhune in Atlanta at 
 cterhune@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Eric Pooley at   epooley2@bloomberg.net  