-- HP Sued by Shareholders Over Kickback, Foreign Bribery Claims
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2010-10-21T22:36:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/hp-sued-by-shareholders-over-kickbacks-settlement-foreign-bribery-claims.html
Directors at Hewlett-Packard Co.,
the world’s largest computer maker, were sued by shareholders
over claims they permitted or encouraged violations of federal
kickback and foreign bribery laws.  From 2007 to 2009, HP violated the federal anti-kickback
law by paying government vendors “influencer fees” to win
contracts to design information technology systems, according to
the complaint filed in federal court in San Jose, California.
The company is also under investigation for possible violations
of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.  Current and former directors at HP “consciously condoned
HP’s illegal and unethical marketing practices,” according to
the Oct. 19 complaint. The misconduct has “put the company at
risk of having its U.S. government contracts rescinded,” the
shareholders claim, adding that HP sales to U.S. agencies from
2007 to 2009 totaled more than $880 million.  The case relies in part on HP’s announcement in August that
it agreed to pay $55 million to settle a Justice Department
probe of whether the company overcharged taxpayers through a
General Services Administration contract. That settlement also
resolved a False Claims Act lawsuit, first filed by a
whistleblower and joined by the government, alleging that the
company paid kickbacks.  While the U.S. made HP aware of its illegal marketing
practices in “late 2006/early 2007,” the directors allowed the
unlawful conduct to continue until Dec. 31, 2009, according to
the shareholder complaint.  The complaint also cites HP’s disclosure last month that
the Justice Department and U.S. Securities Exchange Commission
joined a probe by the German Public Prosecutor’s Office
examining whether the Palo Alto, California-based company
engaged in bribery overseas.  “It is painfully obvious that HP’s board has not and will
not act as a disinterested and independent check on illegal
corporate action, and that to remedy this misconduct, HP’s
shareholders need to bring suit,” according to the complaint.  The case seeks to recover the False Claims Act fines and
repayment of the salaries paid to the directors serving from
2007 to 2009.  HP spokeswoman  Mylene Mangalindan  didn’t immediately return
a call seeking comment. John McCool, an outside spokesman for
the company, said HP is reviewing the complaint.  The case is Saginaw Police and Fire Pension Fund v.
Andreessen, 10-4720, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joel Rosenblatt  in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 