-- Palestinians Want UN Recognition as State If Peace Talks Fail, Poll Shows
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2010-10-21T10:30:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/palestinians-want-un-recognition-as-state-if-peace-talks-fail-poll-shows.html
Most Palestinians support asking the
United Nations Security Council to recognize an independent
state if peace talks fail, while two out of five favor an armed
uprising against Israel, a poll showed.  Asked to respond “yes” or “no” to a range of options,
69 percent endorsed seeking Security Council recognition, while
54 percent favored the unilateral declaration of a state. The
 Harry S. Truman Research Institute  for the Advancement of Peace
at the Hebrew University in Jerusalem and the  Palestinian Center
for Policy and Survey Research  in the West Bank city of Ramallah
interviewed 1,270 Palestinians for the poll, published today.  Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  says he will
not participate in further U.S.-mediated peace talks, which
started in September, unless Israel stops building in West Bank
settlements. The Palestine Liberation Organization is
considering alternatives if the talks fail. Israeli Prime
Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said he may halt construction for
two months if Palestinians recognize Israel as a Jewish state,
which they have refused to do.  “The poll found a preference among Palestinians for
seeking UN recognition over resorting to violence,” Yaakov
Shamir, a Truman researcher, said in a telephone interview.  The survey showed 51 percent of Palestinians supported a
campaign of non-violent resistance against Israel while 41
percent would reactivate the “intifada,” or armed uprising. In
a separate survey of Israelis, 63 percent said they fear the
Palestinians will resume the intifada, while 42 percent said
they would stick to non-violence.  The pollsters interviewed Palestinians face-to-face in the
West Bank, east Jerusalem and the Gaza Strip, and that survey
had a margin of error of 3 percentage points, according to an e-
mailed statement. The Israeli sample included 610 adults
interviewed by phone in Hebrew, Arabic or Russian, and had a
margin of error of 4 percentage points.  The study was carried out between Sept. 30 and October 7.
Israel ended a 10-month freeze on construction in West Bank
settlements on Sept. 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Ferziger  in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  