-- China Interest Rate Increases Likely in 2011, Survey Shows
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 2010-10-22T09:03:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/pboc-likely-to-increase-interest-rates-in-2011-survey-shows-china-credit.html
China’s central bank will likely
hold off from adding to this week’s interest-rate increase until
2011, when it will raise borrowing costs at least twice to tame
inflation, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The People’s Bank of China will leave the benchmark one-
year lending  rate  at 5.56 percent through December, according to
12 of 17 forecasts made yesterday in a Bloomberg News survey.
Eight of 12 respondents said the rate, used to set a minimum
cost for loans in the world’s fastest-growing major economy,
will jump at least half a percentage point by the end of 2011.
Nomura International Ltd. had the most aggressive estimate,
predicting a one percentage point increase for next year.  “The risk is inflation will remain an issue and that’s why
next year we have four more rate hikes” as our forecast,  Robert Subbaraman , chief economist for Asia excluding Japan at Nomura,
said in an interview yesterday in Hong Kong. “Administrative
measures are starting to lose their effectiveness.”  Policy makers in emerging markets are stepping up efforts
to cool price gains as central banks in the U.S. and Japan favor
near-zero interest rates and money-printing to avert recessions.
Economic expansion in China will moderate to 9 percent in 2011
from 10.1 percent this year, based on the median estimates in
the Bloomberg surveys. Second-quarter data show growth rates
were 8.8 percent in Brazil and India, while Russia’s was 5.2
percent.  China’s Moves  During the past month, China announced its first rate
increase since 2007, boosted reserve-requirement ratios for the
largest banks for the fourth time this year and allowed gains in
the yuan to accelerate in a bid to prevent asset bubbles as
funds pour into the nation.  Foreign-exchange  reserves  jumped by $100 billion in
September to a record $2.65 trillion, the biggest increase since
Bloomberg began tracking the data in 1995. Traders in the swaps
market also expect borrowing costs to rise next year.  The People’s Bank raised its benchmark one-year lending by
a quarter of a percentage point on Oct. 19 to 5.56 percent and
the deposit rate by the same amount, to 2.5 percent. China caps
the maximum rate banks can pay on deposits and sets a floor on
borrowing costs of 90 percent of the benchmark one-year rate, a
requirement in place since 2004.  “It seems increasingly clear that Beijing still has more
to do to keep the Chinese economy on an even keel,” said  Brian Jackson , an emerging-market strategist at Royal Bank of Canada
in Hong Kong. “We continue to expect more rate hikes. Risks are
building” for a move in the first quarter, he said in an
interview yesterday.  Interest-Rate Swaps  One-year interest-rate  swaps , the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase  rate , rose 19 basis
points this week to a four-month high of 2.38 percent. While the
swap rate is still lower than the  deposit rate , the rising level
suggests investors are adding bets on another increase in
borrowing costs this year.  Five-year interest-rate swaps climbed 35 basis points this
week to 3.44 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The  Shanghai Composite Index  of stocks gained 0.1 percent.  China’s  gross domestic product  increased 9.6 percent in the
last three months from the same period of 2009, the smallest
gain in a year, the statistics bureau reported.  Inflation 
accelerated to a 23-month high of 3.6 percent in September. The
U.S. economy expanded 3 percent in the second quarter and in
Japan, where  consumer prices  have been sliding for 18 months,
growth was 2.4 percent.  Capital Flows  Inflows of capital caused the yuan to strengthen 1.7
percent in September, the biggest monthly gain since a peg ended
in July 2005. It has appreciated 0.5 percent this month to
6.6574 per dollar in Shanghai. Non-deliverable forwards show
traders expect 2.8 percent appreciation to 6.4780 during the
next 12 months.  The currency will end this year at 6.60 per dollar before
strengthening 5.8 percent to 6.24 in 2011, based on the median
estimates in yesterday’s Bloomberg survey.  The rate increase “is an admission that they are worried
about the property sector,”  Ben Simpfendorfer , a Hong Kong-
based economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc, said in an
interview yesterday. “They are struggling to control it.”  Since April, Chinese policy makers have tightened down-
payment requirements, suspended loans for third-home purchases
and pledged to speed up trials of a property tax that may be
rolled out nationwide.  Property Prices  Even with the added controls, property prices in 70 Chinese
cities climbed 0.5 percent last month from August and the value
of real-estate sales soared 56 percent, the statistics bureau
reported Oct. 15. New home prices in Shanghai climbed 11 percent
to 22,376 yuan ($3,366) per square meter in the week ended Oct.
17 from the previous week, according to property consultant
Shanghai UWin Real Estate Information Services Co.  Capital inflows have pushed down rates in China, which has
the lowest 10-year bond yield among the BRIC nations at 3.6
percent, compared with 11.93 percent in Brazil, 8.14 percent in
India and 7.59 percent in Russia.  The yield on China’s 3.28 percent bond due in August 2020
was little changed at 3.6 percent according to the National
Interbank Funding Center. It surged 22 basis points on Oct. 20.
Three-month bill yields climbed 20 basis points to 1.77 percent
at an auction yesterday, the first time since June 10 the rate
has increased.  Banks have lent about 6.3 trillion yuan this year and can
extend a maximum of about 400 billion yuan in each of the final
three months if the government is to meet a target of limiting
new lending to 7.5 trillion yuan.  “As further hikes are expected, declines in asset prices
will become more likely as credit becomes more expensive,”  Lina Wong , a Shanghai-based managing director of Colliers
International Ltd. said in a statement to reporters yesterday.
Colliers is the world’s third-largest global property broker.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
 Sophie Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net ;
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 