-- Pernod-Ricard First-Quarter Sales Climb 10%, Exceeding Analyst Estimates
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2010-10-21T12:47:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/pernod-ricard-sales-growth-beats-estimates-buoyed-by-emerging-markets.html
Pernod-Ricard SA , the maker of
Chivas Regal whiskey and Absolut vodka, reported first-quarter
sales growth that beat estimates, driven by its top 14 brands
and demand in emerging markets.  So-called organic sales, which exclude the effects of
acquisitions or disposals and currency swings, advanced 10
percent in the three months ended Sept. 30, the company said
today in a statement. That was more than double the 4.5 percent
median estimate of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Pernod jumped as much as 6.7 percent in Paris trading, the
steepest gain in almost six months, leading beverage shares
higher as the sales reassured investors that conditions in
Europe and the U.S. are improving. Diageo Plc  rose  as much as
6.9 percent to a record, while Carlsberg AS climbed as much as
5.2 percent, its  steepest advance  in more than five months.  “The market should be reassured that the wider industry is
confirming firmer trading trends in its key U.S. market,”  Simon Hales , an analyst at Evolution Securities, said in a report.  Remy Cointreau SA, the maker of Remy Martin cognac, said
today that first-half revenue rose to 428.2 million euros from
361.9 million euros, “with dynamics remaining strong in Asia.”  Pernod’s sales were “buoyed by a huge outperformance in
Asia” and other countries outside Europe and the Americas, UBS
AG analysts including  Melissa Earlam  wrote in a note today.
“France is also better than expected.” UBS has a “neutral”
recommendation on the stock.  Martell Cognac  The  shares  traded up 6 percent, or 3.70 euros, at 65.26
euros as of 2:40 p.m. in Paris. Pernod has advanced 8.9 percent
this year, less than the 11 percent advance for Diageo, the
world’s largest distiller.  Pernod’s total revenue rose 14 percent to 1.88 billion
euros from 1.65 billion euros a year earlier. Organic sales of
Martell cognac jumped 45 percent, fuelling 17 percent growth for
Pernod’s top 14 “strategic spirits and champagne brands.”  “What you’re getting is very strong growth, partly in
Martell,” and from Pernod’s Royal Salute brand, which advanced
37 percent,  Trevor Stirling , an  analyst  at Sanford C. Bernstein
in London, said today. “Growth is driven by cognac again.”  Organic sales in Europe excluding France, where the company
gets most of its revenue, rose 2 percent as growth in Ukraine
and Russia offset “stable” sales in western Europe. Pernod’s
home market saw 5 percent growth, with a recovery in demand for
its Mumm and Perrier-Jouet champagne brands. Sales in the U.S.
were stable, and rose 3 percent overall for the Americas unit.  Diageo, Carlsberg  “In Europe, performance is better than we experienced last
year,”  Gilles Bogaert , Pernod’s finance director, said today by
telephone. “Western Europe is on the way to stabilization.”  Diageo last week reported that organic sales grew 5 percent
as a “weaker” environment in Europe offset revenue growth at
its Asia Pacific and International units. The London-based
distiller expects organic operating profit growth for the year
of more than 2 percent. The shares rose as much as 80 pence to
1,240 pence today.  Carlsberg, the biggest brewer in Russia,  rose  as much as
5.2 percent after Pernod and Remy reported strong sales in the
country. That indicates an improving consumer environment there,
said  Andy Ford , an analyst at MF Global in London. Eastern
Europe accounts for about half of Carlsberg’s operating income.  Pernod, which has “high balance sheet leverage,”
according to UBS, said today it will target net debt of 4 times
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
by June 2012, at average exchange rates.  The company announced in the past week that it sold its
Renault cognac brand and some New Zealand wine brands, including
Lindauer. The disposals were “portfolio pruning,” according to
Bogaert. “There’s nothing significant on the table right now”
in terms of further sales, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Clementine Fletcher  in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 