-- Persian Gulf Banks Planning $1.5 Billion Sukuk on Rebound: Islamic Finance
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2010-10-21T12:08:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/persian-gulf-banks-planning-1-5-billion-sukuk-on-rebound-islamic-finance.html
Islamic bond sales by banks in the
Persian Gulf may reach $1.5 billion this month, taking total
offerings this year to the highest on record, as the region’s
recovery lures investors.  Islamic Development Bank, a Jeddah-based multilateral
lender, sold $500 million of five-year sukuk yesterday to yield
40 basis points more than the benchmark midswap rate. Abu Dhabi
Islamic Bank PJSC, the United Arab Emirates’ second-biggest
Islamic bank, may sell $1 billion of debt, according to
Bahrain’s Unicorn Investment Bank BSC. The offerings would bring
to $2.4 billion issuance from financial institutions this year,
the most since Bloomberg started tracking the data in 2003.  “Banks are taking the lead because they are the ones that
need money the most after the last two years’ of writedowns and
provisioning,”  Nida Raza , senior vice president of capital
markets at Manama-based Unicorn, an Islamic investment bank,
said in a phone interview yesterday.  Islamic bond sales from the six countries that make up the
Gulf Cooperation Council are picking up after Dubai World’s
agreement in September with 99 percent of its creditors to alter
the terms on $24.9 billion of borrowings reduced the risk that
the company will default and bolstered investor appetite for
debt from the region. Economic growth in the Middle East and
North Africa will accelerate to 4.1 percent this year, from 2
percent in 2009, the International Monetary Fund said Oct. 6.  Sukuk Trust  Shariah-compliant bonds sold by banks and financial
institutions in the Gulf have gained 15.5 percent this year,
according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai GCC Financial Services US
Dollar Sukuk Index . Islamic notes sold by issuers from the GCC
have returned 12.2 percent in the period, according to the
 HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai GCC US Dollar Sukuk Index . Debt in developing
markets gained 15.7 percent, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global
Diversified Index shows.  Abu Dhabi Islamic said Oct. 18 it will start holding “non-
equity” meetings in Asia, Europe and the Middle East from Oct.
20. ADIB has a $5 billion sukuk trust certificate program,
according to a  prospectus  dated July 8 posted by the bank on the
London Stock Exchange’s website. The bonds will be issued from
“time to time” in any currency, it said.  Tirad Mahmoud , chief
executive officer at ADIB, declined to provide further details,
when contacted by e-mail yesterday.  The average yield on sukuk sold by GCC issuers fell 14
basis points, or 0.14 percentage point, this month to 5.95
percent yesterday, according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai GCC US
Dollar Sukuk Index . The yield has risen from this year’s low of
5.549 percent on Oct. 6. While the spread to the London
interbank offered rate shrank four basis points to 471 this
month, it has widened 31 basis points this week.  Yields Drop  The extra yield investors demand to hold Dubai’s dollar
sukuk rather than Malaysia’s 3.928 percent Islamic note due June
2015 has widened 22 basis points to 394 this month, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on Dubai’s 6.396 percent
sukuk maturing in November 2014 increased three basis points to
6.46 percent, the data show.  The spread between the average yield for emerging-market
sukuk and the London interbank offered rate shrank three basis
points to 369 this month, according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US
Dollar Sukuk Index .  Sales of sukuk have been slow to pick up this year in the
Gulf with $3.2 billion of issuance this year, from $4.2 billion
a year earlier. Non-Islamic debt offerings from the Gulf reached
$24.3 billion, compared with $25 billion a year-earlier,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There is a risk of oversupply,”  Ahmad Alanani , the
Dubai-based director of fixed-income sales at investment bank
Exotix Ltd., said in an interview yesterday. “Yields are
getting tighter, while we are having a new issue almost every
day. The market is only open for the government-linked entities.
At some point, we are going to see saturation.”  ‘Cleaning Up’  Banks in the U.A.E., the second-biggest Arab economy, are
recovering after the global financial crisis weakened lending,
crimped investment income and spurred loan defaults. The
nation’s banks are “cleaning up, internally,” by streamlining
policies, loans and provisions,  Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank PJSC ’s
Chief Executive Officer  Ala’a Eraiqat  said at a conference in
London yesterday.  Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank  posted a 31 percent increase in
third-quarter profit as income from fees and commissions soared,
the lender said on Oct. 18.  Qatar Islamic Bank SAQ , the nation’s
biggest Shariah-compliant lender, said on Oct. 17 that profit in
the quarter rose 62 percent.  The bank sold $750 million of five-year Islamic bonds on
Sept. 30 and the  National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC , the U.A.E.’s
second-largest lender by assets, raised 500 million ringgit
($160 million) in June from an offering in Malaysia.  ‘Appetite’  “There is definitely healthy appetite for these
issuances,”  Shehzad Janab , head of asset management at Dubai-
based Daman Investments PSC, which has more than 5 billion
dirhams ($1.4 billion) of securities under management, said in
an interview on Oct. 19. “As long as you have cheap money
sloshing around in the system, you will have demand for regional
bonds.”  The Islamic Development Bank is rated the highest AAA at
Standard & Poor’s and Aaa at Moody’s Investors Service. ADIB is
rated A2 by Moody’s, the sixth-highest investment grade.  “You needed an investment-grade issuer to open up the
market,” said Unicorn’s Raza. “Now that we’re seeing this
happening, I wouldn’t rule out more issuance from Abu Dhabi and
Qatar.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Haris Anwar  in Dubai on 
 Hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  