-- Peru Studying Measures to Control Capital Inflows, Economy Ministry Says
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2010-10-21T22:25:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/peru-studying-measures-to-control-capital-inflows-economy-ministry-says.html
Peru is studying measures to stem
capital inflows to prevent the sol from appreciating too
quickly, Deputy Economy Minister  Carlos Casas  said.  The Finance Ministry is considering “administrative
measures” that would give it greater control over the inflows,
Casas told reporters today in Lima. The government is discussing
possible steps with the central bank and regulators of the
securities, banking and pension industries, he said.  “The idea isn’t to create new taxes -- instead the idea is
probably more along administrative lines, to have greater
control and know where the capital is coming from,” Casas said.
A limit on local banks’ currency movements is among the measures
policy makers are considering, Casas said.  Peru risks attracting higher capital inflows next year as
investors use “excessive” global liquidity to buy securities
with higher yields in emerging markets, Casas said. Peru’s
central bank has increased its  reference rate  five times this
year from 1.25 percent to the current 3 percent to avert
inflationary pressures and cool an economy that the Finance
Ministry says may grow 8.5 percent.  The sol weakened 0.1 percent to 2.7935 per dollar at 5:52
p.m. New York time from 2.7910 yesterday. Foreign inflows drove
the currency to a two-year high last month.  The yield on Peru’s benchmark 8.6 percent sol-denominated
bond due August 2017 rose three basis points, or 0.03 percentage
point, to 4.83 percent, according to Deutsche Bank AG’s local
unit.  Inflows, Policy Coordination  Economies throughout the region are seeking to address
pressures on their currencies resulting from surging inflows of
capital. Brazil’s government this week boosted a tax on foreign
capital inflows for the second time this month in a bid to stem
a rally in its currency, the real.  “We have to see how capital inflows are in the last
quarter of this year and the first quarter of next year in order
to take steps in this respect, with extensive coordination with
the central bank,” Casas said.  The Finance Ministry will buy at least $500 million this
year to help stabilize the currency, complementing central bank
 purchases  that have totaled almost $9 billion, Casas said.  Slowing public spending growth as the government winds up
its fiscal stimulus will also help slow gains in the currency,
he said. The government has proposed a “relatively austere”
budget for 2011, he said.  The sol may weaken to 2.80 per dollar by the end of this
year as uncertainty about the outcome of April’s presidential
elections drives investors to seek refuge in the dollar, Casas
said.  Management  According to BBVA Banco Continental, the currency may
strengthen to 2.72 per dollar by the end of next year, depending
on the magnitude of foreign inflows and the actions taken by
Peruvian policy makers.  “Peru is a small economy that could have difficulty
absorbing massive inflows of capital,” which can cause
unsustainable growth in the economy and asset prices, said  Hugo Perea , chief economist at BBVA Banco Continental, in a phone
interview from Lima.  “The authorities want to avoid this scenario by managing
the inflows so they don’t lead to excessive private sector
spending, overheating of the economy, excessive expansion in
credit and eventually an asset bubble,” Perea said.  Sol Volatility  Currency volatility is a threat to the Peruvian financial
system and the economy because of the high proportion of credit
and deposits in dollars, said  Alberto Ramos , an economist at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., in an e-mailed note to clients today.  The central bank has introduced measures including higher
reserve requirements and raising the limit on pension funds’
investments overseas to curtail demand for soles and reduce
volatility.  Peru’s Banks Superintendency is proposing limiting local
banks’ dollar forwards holdings, a move which will be negative
for the sol “as large banks are surely going to reduce
exposure,” said  Pedro Tuesta , a Latin America economist at
4Cast Inc., in a note to clients.  The rule seeks to limit the banks’ net positions in dollar
forwards to 25 percent of their assets, or 500 million soles,
whichever is greater, according to a draft of the rule dated
Oct. 15 and published on the regulator’s  website .  The introduction of the limit is for “macro-prudential”
reasons, said Luis Zegarra, the regulator’s spokesman, in an e-
mailed statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Quigley  in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  