-- Philippine Police Clear Exchange Building of Bomb Threat; Trading Resumes
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2010-10-21T05:45:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/philippine-stock-exchange-halts-trading-evacuates-staff-after-bomb-threat.html
The Philippine police said it
cleared a bomb threat that forced the evacuation of an office
complex where the stock exchange is located and halted trading.  Stock trading, which stopped from 10:21 a.m. Manila time
because of the threat, resumed at 1 p.m. and will be extended
until 2 p.m., the exchange said in an announcement. Trading
usually starts at 9:30 a.m. and ends at noon.  “The police have cleared the building and gave their okay
for people to go back to work so we are letting everyone in
now,” said Jorge Marco, spokesman at Ayala Land Inc., the
nation’s biggest developer that owns the Tower One & Exchange
Plaza complex. “We have no details of the call or the caller.”  The property, whose tenants include UBS AG and ING
Groep NV’s investment unit, was vacated earlier so the police
could investigate the bomb threat,  Philippine Stock Exchange
Inc.  President  Val Suarez  said. The evacuation of the 36-story
development was the first because of a bomb threat, Marco said.  “It’s better to clear the vicinity while this is being
confirmed,” Suarez said in an interview after he evacuated the
building in Makati, the financial district in the nation’s
capital. “Safety is something you don’t take lightly.”  Nicanor Bartolome , regional director for the National
Capital Region Police Office, said the police is conducting an
investigation to trace the source of the call.  “Whenever we get information like this, we cant just set
it aside,” he said in a phone interview. “The police has to
act and take appropriate action. The caller can face a liability
depending on the circumstances.”  Investors said their trades were disrupted as they left the
building. The benchmark  Philippine Stock Exchange Index  rose 1.2
percent to 4,242.16 as of 1:43 p.m. in Manila, set for the
highest in two weeks.  “This has been a big inconvenience for investors
considering market activity was picking up,” said Jonathan
Ravelas, strategist at Manila-based Banco de Oro Unibank Inc.,
the nation’s biggest bank by assets. “Hopefully, this will not
revive the image to overseas investors that the Philippines is a
risky place.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian Sayson  in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  