-- Philadelphia-Area Manufacturing Expanded in October
-- B y   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n
-- 2010-10-21T14:58:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/philadelphia-fed-factory-index-rises-in-october-to-1-0.html
Manufacturing in the Philadelphia
region expanded less than forecast in October as a measure of
orders contracted for a fourth month.  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s  general economic 
index rose to 1 from minus 0.7 a month earlier. Readings greater
than zero suggest expansion in the area covering eastern
Pennsylvania, southern New Jersey and Delaware. Economists
forecast the gauge would increase to 2, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  Less inventory rebuilding and consumers constrained by
 joblessness  near 10 percent may restrain factories, which led
the economy out of the worst recession in seven decades. At the
same time, growing economies overseas and corporate investment
in new equipment may help fuel U.S. production.  “With consumer spending still not adding too much to
anything, we’re still relying on the business side of the
equation to boost economic growth,” said  Jennifer Lee , an
economist at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto.  Stocks rallied as improving earnings bolstered investor
optimism. The  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index increased 0.9 percent
to 1,188.24 at 10:53 a.m. in New York. The yield on the 10-year
Treasury note increased to 2.49 percent from 2.48 percent late
yesterday.  Separate figures today showed fewer Americans filed for
first-time unemployment benefits and the index of leading
economic indicators rose for a third month.  Jobless Claims  The Labor Department today said initial jobless claims
declined by 23,000 to 452,000 last week, a level that’s
consistent with little improvement in the labor market.  The index of leading economic indicators increased 0.3
percent in September, signaling the recovery will extend into
2011, Conference Board figures showed.  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey of 53 economists before
the Fed bank’s report ranged from minus 5 to a gain to 9.  The Philadelphia Fed bank’s shipments gauge rose to 1.4
from minus 7.1 in September. The employment index increased to
2.4 from 1.8 a month earlier.  Factories nationally may be restrained in adding to their
workforces after being among the leading industries in payroll
gains earlier in the year. The U.S. lost 34,000  manufacturing
jobs  in August and September, after adding 170,000 in the first
seven months of the year.  New Orders  The new orders measure increased to minus 5 from minus 8.1,
today’s report showed.  The Philadelphia Fed’s index of prices paid jumped to 31.5,
the highest level since May, from 9.8. The gauge of prices
received increased to minus 9 from minus 13.9.  The overall Philadelphia Fed’s index isn’t composed of the
individual measures, so some economists consider it a gauge of
sentiment among manufacturers. A report from the  New York Fed 
last week showed factory expansion accelerating this month, with
measures of new orders and employment increasing.  The gauge of business activity six months from now rose to
41 in October from 26.3. Measures of expected orders,
employment, sales and capital spending all increased.  Economists monitor the New York and Philadelphia Fed
factory reports for clues about the Institute for Supply
Management national figures on manufacturing during the month.
That measure has shown factory growth is easing and October data
will be released on Nov. 1.  11 Percent  Manufacturers make up 11 percent of the economy and had
benefitted from expanding world trade, inventory restocking and
stronger corporate spending for new equipment.  While economists project the boost from inventory
replenishment has ended, businesses may still be updating
equipment and software. Output of technology equipment,
including computers and semiconductors, rose in September,
according to the Fed’s industrial production report released
Oct. 18.  There is “slow recovery in a few areas,”  General Electric
Co. ’s Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  said during a call
with analysts last week after the world’s biggest producer of
power-plant turbines reported third-quarter sales that missed
analysts estimates. “The environment continues to get better.”  Foreign demand may help sustain growth. Exports rose 0.2
percent in August to the highest level in two years, Commerce
Department figures showed last week. New York-based Alcoa Inc.,
the largest U.S. aluminum producer, earlier this month reported
profit that beat analysts’ estimates and said sales abroad are
climbing.  Sales at  DuPont Co.,  the third-largest U.S. chemical maker
will rise more than 15 percent this year amid strong demand for
titanium dioxide pigment, farm products, electronics, solar-
energy materials and car parts, executive vice president Jeffrey
Keefer said at a conference Sept. 30. The company is based in
Wilmington, Delaware.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington at 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  