-- Pinault Browses Art Fair, $2.8 Million Fontana Sells
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2010-10-22T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/pinault-lenny-kravitz-browse-fiac-art-fair-as-2-8-million-fontana-sells.html
French billionaire  Francois Pinault 
and singer  Lenny Kravitz  browsed France’s largest art fair,
where a $2.8 million  Lucio Fontana  work was among the few early
big-ticket sales.  Pinault, the owner of  Christie’s International , “Leon”
lead actor  Jean Reno , Miami collectors Don and Mira Rubell and
New York-based adviser Kim Heirston were among the invited
visitors to the 114 dealers’ booths at FIAC, or the Foire
Internationale d’Art Contemporain, in Paris’s Grand Palais. Many
wealthy buyers were hesitating, reflecting a sober mood in
strike-bound France, said exhibitors.  “It’s a little quieter than last year,” the New York-
based  Per Skarstedt  said in an interview at the Oct. 20 preview.
“Maybe some people have been scared away by the strikes. We’ve
done OK, though, with smaller things.” Skarstedt said he had
sold five pieces by the early evening of the VIP day, ranging in
price from $150,000 to $350,000.  FIAC -- which features a further 81 galleries at an annex
in the Cour Carree of the Louvre -- comes a week after the
Frieze Art Fair in London. There dealers spoke of a slow
recovery in the contemporary art market, with many sales at
post-boom price levels.  The Paris show coincided with nationwide French strikes
against President  Nicolas Sarkozy’s  plan to raise the retirement
age. Preview attendance was 21,608 people, 8 percent up on last
year, the organizers said.  Cindy’s Cigarette  As at Frieze, buyers chose items priced at $500,000 or
less. The 1984  Cindy Sherman  photo “Untitled #132,” showing
the artist brandishing a beer and a cigarette, sold for
$250,000, said Skarstedt. His most expensive work -- the 1994
 Richard Prince  painting, “Anyone Can Find Me,” -- had yet to
find a buyer at $1.8 million by the end of the second day.  Among the other high-value items yet to attract firm offers
were  Anish Kapoor ’s unique 20-foot-wide snake sculpture,
“Slug,” dating from 2009, offered by Paris dealer  Kamel
Mennour  for 1.8 million pounds ($2.8 million); the  Takashi Murakami  figure, “Kiki,” offered by fellow Paris trader Paolo
Vedovi at $1.6 million; and a painting by Abstract Expressionist
 Joan Mitchell , dating from 1958, at $4.5 million with New York
dealers  Cheim & Read .  “People used to drop $2 million at a fair without
thinking,” Adam Sheffer, a Cheim & Reid director, said in an
interview. “Now that doesn’t happen anymore. They take longer
to take negotiate. We’ve lost the buyers and the collectors have
returned.” The gallery had sold a smaller Mitchell canvas,
priced at $450,000, to a South American collector, Sheffer said.  Basquiat Sale  Collectors were also taking their time on the booth of New
York dealer  Christophe Van de Weghe .  Jean-Michel Basquiat’s  1984
painting, “Desmond,” and the 1956  Alexander Calder  mobile,
“Lune Blanche,” marked at $2.8 million and $2.9 million
respectively, were still available last night. Van de Weghe had,
however, sold the 1987 Basquiat acrylic and oil word painting,
“The Whole Livery Line,” to a U.S. client for $1.1 million.  “Because of  Gagosian  opening in Paris, there are
definitely more Americans around this year,” Gaia Donzet, head
of the Paris branch of the Italian dealers  Tornabuoni Art , said
in an interview. A four-slash red Fontana “Concetto Spaziale”
from 1966 sold a U.S. collector on the second day for 2 million
euros ($2.8 million), Donzet said.  Sculptures by the Brazilian artist  Lygia Clark  were among
the few works attracting early sales of more than $500,000.  In April, a 1960 Neo-Concretist aluminum “Bicho”
sculpture by Clark sold for a record 367,250 pounds at Phillips
de Pury & Co’s BRIC auction in London, underlining collectors‘
growing focus on the neglected field of contemporary Latin
American art.  French Collector  Four more “Bicho” pieces from the 1960s were offered at
the booth of the Paris dealer  Natalie Seroussi . Two sold to a
French collector during the morning of the preview for about
700,000 euros each, Seroussi said.  More than a third of the galleries at the event are based
in France.  “The fair is very French,” the New York and Sao Paolo-
based private dealer Andrew Terner said in an interview. “Paris
has been struggling to find a place in the international art
world. FIAC keeps the city in the game.”  New works by younger international sculptors with growing
reputations continue to attract collectors. A unique 5-foot-high
head by the British, Los Angeles-based artist  Thomas Houseago 
priced at $80,000 was one of 15 sales made by the Brussels-based
dealer  Xavier Hufkens  during the early hours of the preview in
the $10,000 to $100,000 range.  Rosenblum Foundation  It was bought by the Paris-based collector Steve Rosenblum,
whose foundation opens to the public this week. FIAC, unlike
Frieze, includes dealers who specialize in early 20th-century
art.  Last year’s FIAC tried a “Modern Project” section with
dealers offering 24 museum-quality 20th-century works priced as
much as $40 million. The innovation didn’t result in any
publicly confirmed sales during the fair and wasn’t repeated.
This year, dealers in modern art were vastly outnumbered. The 63
galleries exhibiting at FIAC for the first time or returning
were dominated by specialists in contemporary works.  For many visitors, the modernist masterpiece of the 2010
fair is  Max Beckmann’s  1934 portrait of his lover Hildegard
Melms, or “Naila.” Shown by the Bern dealers,  Galerie Henze &
Ketterer , it is priced at 19 million euros and attracted a
reserve before arriving in Paris.  “ FIAC  is different from  Frieze ,” Markus Rischgasser,
director of the Zurich-based  Galerie Eva Presenhuber , said in an
interview. “In London, it’s all about the rush of collectors on
the first and second days, and then you’re left with a crowded
tent. Here you see serious people throughout the fair, and they
take their time.”  ( Scott Reyburn  writes for Muse, the arts and culture
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Scott Reyburn  in Paris at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 