-- Ping An Sees Little Improvement From Worst Year Since 2005
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-22T01:55:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/ping-an-sees-little-improvement-from-worst-year-for-investing-since-2005.html
Ping An Insurance (Group) Co. ,
China’s second-largest insurer, is diversifying into property
and private equity and increasing holdings in  Chinese stocks  to
boost investment performance after its worst year since 2005.  “Returns are lower than last year and I’d say it’s the
toughest time” in five years, after bond yields and the
benchmark stock index declined,  Timothy Chan , 49, deputy chief
investment officer of Ping An and chairman of its asset
management units, said in an interview at the company’s office
in Shanghai. “The forecast for investment returns in 2011 looks
very similar to this year’s levels.”  The government is widening the investment scope of insurers
including Ping An and  China Life Insurance Co. , which held most
assets in bonds and bank deposits, limiting returns. Ping An had
86 percent of its portfolio invested in fixed income and 9
percent in equities at the end of June, Chan said.  Ping An may expand to commercial property, infrastructure
and take a stake in  AIA Group Ltd. , the Asian business of
American International Group Inc., to generate higher returns
after 10-year  government bond yields  fell to a 12-month low in
July of 3.17 percent. The yields have since climbed to 3.6
percent as the government raised borrowing costs.  “We will try to improve yields by adding more credit
risk,” Chan, who helps oversee 600 billion yuan ($90 billion)
at the  Shenzhen-based insurer , said yesterday.  Real Estate  The China Insurance Regulatory Commission said in August it
would allow insurers to invest in real estate and equities of
unlisted companies and give them more freedom in stock-market
investments. The yield on Ping An’s  investment income  was 3.7
percent in the first half of this year, down from 4.8 percent in
the same period last year. China’s inflation rate jumped to 3.6
percent in September, the fastest pace in almost two years.  Chan, who joined Ping An in 2005 and previously worked at
BNP Paribas Asset Management, is boosting his equity allocations
as the Shanghai Composite Index, the benchmark index, extends
its rally since reaching a 2010 low in July. The measure has
jumped 26 percent since July 5 after lagging behind advances in
other emerging markets and as a rising yuan lured capital
inflows. The measure fell 0.3 percent to 2,974.41 as of 9:53
a.m. in Shanghai, bringing this year’s decline to 9.2 percent.  ‘More Positive’  “We are still getting more positive on the equity market
on valuation and also the government policy is still favorable
toward equities,” Chan said. “This year we had a big
correction and valuations have come off to a more reasonable
level and earnings growth remains pretty stable.”  The Shanghai Composite  trades  at 17 times estimated
earnings, compared with about 24 times at the start of the year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The index dropped this
year after the government tightened monetary policy to curb
potential bubbles in the property market.  China’s stocks will benefit from the announcement that
insurers will be able to invest as much as 25 percent of their
assets in yuan-denominated shares and allowing foreigners to
hold 10 percent of their investment quotas in index futures,
 Sean Darby , a Nomura Holdings Inc. equity strategist, said in an
August report.  Chan favors  insurers and banks , based on valuations, and
said machinery makers for industries related to environmental
protection will benefit as China reforms its economy to reduce
its reliance on fixed-asset investment and export-driven growth.  Interest Rate Increase  The central bank raised borrowing costs for the first time
since 2007 on Oct. 19, two days before official data showed the
economy grew 9.6 percent in the third quarter and inflation
accelerated to the fastest pace in almost two years.  Inflation “isn’t going away” and the central bank should
“theoretically” further raise interest rates, Chan said. “The
biggest concern is negative interest rates. Either rates have to
go up or inflation has to come down.”  Officials have reined in  new lending  and clamped down on
speculation in the housing market to limit the risk of asset
bubbles after record property-price gains this year.  China’s insurers will face increasing risks as their
investment channels are expanded,  Wu Dingfu , chairman of the
China Insurance Regulatory Commission, wrote in an article
published in China Finance magazine this month. The nation’s
insurance industry still faces “many” uncertainties and
unstable factors as changes in the external environment have a
greater effect on their risk, Wu wrote.  Falling Investment Income  Ping An’s total  investment income  from insurance funds
fell 26 percent in the first half from a year earlier to 10.4
billion yuan, the company said in August. It had 2.2 billion
yuan in net realized and unrealized losses on investments,
compared with a 5.6 billion yuan gain a year earlier. First-half
profit climbed 29 percent as premiums expanded and its property-
insurance unit made money, and that helped offset the effects of
stock-market declines on investment returns, it said.  Ping An plans to raise holdings of non-guaranteed corporate
bonds, which offer a  higher yield , as returns on government debt
aren’t high enough to match liabilities, Chan said. Government
and corporate bonds have gained 3.1 percent this year after a
0.3 percent loss in 2009, according to an index compiled by
Chinabond, the nation’s largest debt-clearing house.  China will let insurers invest as much as 5 percent of
total assets in privately held companies and 10 percent in real-
estate assets, according to rules posted by the China Insurance
Regulatory Commission on its website on Aug. 5.  Widening Investment Scope  “‘We will widen the investment scope to include
investments in infrastructure such as toll roads, property
investments such as offices, hotels and service apartments
and private equity,” Chan said.  Ping An is among major institutional investors interested
in obtaining stakes in AIA’s Asian Unit, the Financial Times
reported Oct. 17, citing people with knowledge of the matter it
didn’t identify. AIG raised about HK$138.3 billion ($17.8
billion) selling shares in its main Asian unit in the largest
initial public offering in Hong Kong, said three people with
knowledge of the matter. “We will definitely participate if the
valuation is attractive,” Chan said.  Chinese insurance companies are expected to emerge as a
dominant force in the local property market and their real
estate portfolio may rise to a combined $131 billion by 2020,
according to a Jan. 28 report by DTZ Holdings Plc. Ping An’s
real-estate investments now account for “less than 1 percent”
of funds, Chan said.  Short-Term Risks  “Diversified investments will be good for insurers like
Ping An in the long run because most Chinese insurers’
investments are banking deposits that generate very low
returns,” said  Zhang Kun , a strategist at Guotai Junan
Securities Co. in Shanghai. “But short-term risks may increase
after the government raised interest rates.”  Chan expects slower growth in the regional economy in 2011
and is “cautious” about investing in foreign assets given the
outlook for appreciation in the yuan. The renminbi, as the
Chinese currency is officially known, may rise 3 to 5 percent
this year and next against the dollar, he said.  China’s economic expansion, running at more than three
times the pace of growth in the U.S., may add fuel to arguments
that the economy can withstand a stronger yuan. Escalating
tensions over currencies can lead to a “trade war” and dent
global growth, Chan said.  “There’s no imminent trigger but it’s something we
monitor,” he said. “It’s always better to be cautious.”  -- Chua Kong Ho  and  Judy Chen , With assistance from  Zhang Shidong  and Dingmin Zhang. Editors:  Allen Wan ,  Linus Chua   To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Chua Kong Ho in Shanghai at 
 Kchua6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  