-- Sterling Hits Six-Month Low Against Euro as BOE Leans Toward More Easing
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2010-10-21T16:15:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/pound-falls-against-euro-dollar-as-central-bank-leans-toward-more-easing.html
The pound fell to the weakest in
more than six months versus the euro after the Bank of England’s
minutes showed policy makers may be leaning toward more bond
purchases to shore up the recovery.  Sterling depreciated against 14 of its 16 of its most-
traded peers after some members of the central bank’s Monetary
Policy Committee “felt the likelihood that further monetary
stimulus would become necessary in order to meet the inflation
target in the medium term had increased in recent months,”
according to minutes of the MPC’s last meeting, issued
yesterday. Policy maker  Adam Posen  voted to boost QE by 50
billion pounds ($79 billion.) A measure of U.K. retail sales
dropped in September for a second month.  “They key issue today is that it appears the MPC is
shifting towards Adam Posen, so the risks of more QE have
increased significantly based on that,” said  Derek Halpenny ,
European head of currency research at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi
UFJ Ltd. in London. “The pound is going to go down against most
currencies at the moment, but sterling-dollar ultimately will be
supported by QE hanging over the market in the States as well.”  Sterling weakened against the euro for the second day,
depreciating 0.7 percent to 88.72 pence per euro as of 5:09 p.m.
in London. It earlier fell as much as 1.1 percent to 89.09
pence, the weakest level since March 31. The pound weakened 0.7
percent to $1.5745, after strengthening 0.9 percent yesterday.  The euro appreciated against 13 of its 16 most-traded
counterparts after Germany’s finance ministry said economic
growth will be sustained. Industrial production accelerated in
the later part of the third quarter, signaling “the economy’s
continued expansion,” Deputy Finance Minister Hans Bernhard
Beus said in a monthly ministry report today.  Gilts Rise  The MPC split three ways as a majority voted to maintain
the key interest rate at 0.5 percent and bond purchases at 200
billion pounds.  Posen said the recovery in the economy appears “patchy.”
He also said inflation is falling and will continue to drop.  “The assessment I’m getting from the businesses I speak to
is largely in line with my personal take and the overall MPC
take, which is that we are having a recovery, but it’s not a
huge bustling, booming recovery,” he told the Midlands Business
Insider newspaper in an interview published on its website.  U.K. retail sales dropped in September for a second month,
falling 0.2 percent from August, when they declined 0.7 percent,
the Office for National Statistics said today in London.
Economists predicted a 0.3 percent rise, according to the median
of 25 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey. Sales rose 0.5
percent from a year earlier, the least since January.  Budget Deficit  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  yesterday
detailed his plan to almost eliminate the nation’s record 156
billion-pound budget deficit.  Osborne proposes to slash 500,000 public-sector jobs,
impose a levy on banks and cut spending by 81 billion pounds
over five years. He aims to narrow a deficit the government
forecasts at 10.1 percent of gross domestic product this year to
2.1 percent of GDP in the 2014-15 fiscal year. Debt interest
costs would fall by more than 5 billion pounds by 2015.  Gilts rose, pushing down the yield on the 10-year note five
basis points to 2.94 percent. The yield on the two-year gilt
slipped to 0.56 percent, the lowest since Bloomberg began
gathering the data in 1992, before trading two basis point lower
on the day at 0.59 percent. Thirty-year U.K. bond yields fell
four basis points to 4.06 percent.  The pound has depreciated 5.9 percent this year against a
basket of its developed-country peers, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, making it the worst
performing currency.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Stephen Morris  in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  