-- Provincial Debt Overtakes Corporates as Funding Need Eases: Canada Credit
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-10-21T14:37:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/provincial-debt-overtakes-corporates-as-funding-need-eases-canada-credit.html
Canadian provincial bonds are
outperforming corporate issues during the second half of the
year, reversing the first-half outcome, as provinces complete
borrowing and benefit from overseas and safety demand.  Provincials are headed for a sixth straight month of
positive returns, the most since the nine-month streak ended in
March 2008, according to The Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Canadian Provincials & Municipals Index. The index has gained
4.1 percent since June 30, topping a 3.5 percent return for the
Canadian Corporate Index, following a 4.4 percent to 4 percent
advantage for corporates over provincials during the first six
months of the year.  Investors are returning to provincial bonds from corporates
as governments draw near fulfilling annual borrowing
requirements. Looming economic risks may also be of concern to
corporate-bond investors as the Bank of Canada cut growth
projections yesterday and said the withdrawal of monetary
stimulus would be “gradual” amid weakness in the U.S. economy
and slowing domestic consumption and housing markets.  “Canadian governments are benefiting from tremendous
international demand for their bonds,” said  Warren Lovely , a
government-debt strategist for Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce in Toronto. That demand has “kept provincial issuance
running comfortably ahead of schedule.”  Regional Borrowing  Provincial issuers have raised about C$50 billion ($48.9
billion) in domestic and international markets since the April 1
beginning of the fiscal year, or about 69 percent of total
requirements, Lovely said. Quebec will be focused on pre-funding
for 2011, while Ontario is also ahead of schedule, he said.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the province of Quebec sold an
additional C$500 million of 4.5 percent bonds maturing in
December 2020, while Manitoba issued an additional C$250 million
of 4.15 percent bonds maturing in June 2020.  Brookfield Asset Management , Canada’s largest publicly
traded real estate owner, sold C$350 million of 5.3 percent
bonds maturing in March 2021. Export Development Canada, which
markets export credit agencies for the federal government,
issued $1 billion of 1.25 percent bonds maturing October 2015.  The extra yield investors demand to hold the debt of
corporate rather than federal debt was unchanged yesterday at
143 basis points, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
data. Corporate spreads have ranged between 154 basis points in
June and 114 basis points in January since the start of the
year.  Canadian government bonds have returned 7.4 percent this
year, after reinvested interest, according to another Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index. U.S. Treasuries are up 9.04
percent, compared with a 6.1 percent gain for government bonds
globally.  Loonie Falls  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, fell 0.1 percent
to C$1.4274 against the euro and traded at C$1.0215 per U.S.
dollar at 9:11 a.m. in Toronto. It touched C$1.4334 versus the
euro yesterday, the weakest level since March 1.  Canada’s index of leading economic indicators fell 0.1
percent in September, led by housing and manufacturing, after a
revised gain of 0.6 percent in August, Statistics Canada said
today. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News said the index
would rise 0.2 percent, based on the median of eight estimates.
The index’s average monthly increase during the past decade was
0.3 percent.  Provinces will “aggressively pre-fund ahead of another
large requirement” next year, which would bring total borrowing
this fiscal year to about C$80 billion, a record, Lovely said.  Ontario, Quebec  Ontario has sold C$24.4 billion in debt this year, about 63
percent of its total program, with just more than half the
borrowing in Canadian dollars, according to Lovely’s data.
Quebec and British Columbia have issued C$9.4 billion and C$4.8
billion, respectively. The three provinces, Canada’s largest,
account for about 53 percent of total provincial borrowing,
which last fiscal year was C$77.1 billion, according to Lovely.  Demand for provincial debt due in 2025 to 2035, bonds which
are typically ignored by foreign investors, may increase as
pension funds extend maturities and the spread between 10-year
and 30-year government bonds, which yesterday touched the most
in about 18 months, returns to more typical levels, according to
 Jean-Francois Godin , a fixed-income analyst at Desjardins
Securities in Montreal.  Provincial bonds with maturities of longer than 15 years
have lost 0.1 percent this year, compared with a gain of 0.4
percent for the broader market, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch data. Relative yields on the longer-maturity
provincial bonds stood at 87 basis points yesterday, from as
much this year as 109 basis points in May and as least as 70
basis points in March.  Helping Spreads  “This sector should perform well compared to the rest of
the curve,” Godin said in a telephone interview. Provincial
governments have completed a majority of their borrowing
requirements for the fiscal year, “so they’re ahead, they’re
going to be very picky in terms of where they issue. That should
help spreads in the long end.”  Godin declined to list specific bonds or provinces poised
to rise.  Provincials are headed toward a return 10.4 percent this
year, the most since gaining 11.1 percent in 2000.  The 10 best-performing provincial bonds in the broad
corporate index mature no later than September 2019, with issues
by Manitoba, Alberta and British Columbia returning the most,
according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch data. The 10
worst-performers are due no earlier than December 2037,
including bonds from Manitoba, Nova Scotia and Ontario.  Return to Balance  The province of Alberta has the highest rating for its
long-term debt at AAA, according to data released by DBRS Ltd.
DBRS confirmed the province of Manitoba’s ratings at A this
month, saying that while the province’s “debt burden continues
to grow” it “is well-positioned to withstand a potentially
prolonged period of slow economic growth.”  “Initially, investors were feeling that in many instances,
the return to balance would take time and would require somewhat
stronger GDP growth than likely to occur over the medium term,”
 Paul-Andre Pinsonnault , senior fixed-income economist at
National Bank of Canada in Montreal, wrote in an e-mail. “In
the context of low interest rates, expected QE south of the
border and little inflation risk in the short run, the absolute
yield level provided by provinces looks attractive.”  The Bank of Canada this week cut its forecast for growth
next year to 2.3 percent from 2.9 percent, and for this year to
3 percent from 3.5 percent. The bank’s forecast includes an
“expectation” there will be more monetary stimulus in the
U.S., bank Governor  Mark Carney  said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sean B. Pasternak  in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  