-- Publicis Third-Quarter Sales Rise on Digital Activities, Emerging Markets
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2010-10-21T10:14:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/publicis-third-quarter-sales-rise-on-digital-activities-emerging-markets.html
Publicis Groupe SA , owner of the
Saatchi & Saatchi and Leo Burnett ad agencies, said third-
quarter revenue rose 9.2 percent, led by digital activities in
North America and business in emerging markets such as China.  Organic revenue, which excludes acquisitions and mergers,
increased to 1.32 billion euros ($1.84 billion) from 1.05
billion euros a year earlier, the Paris-based company said in an
e-mailed statement today. The stock had its biggest gain in
Paris intraday trading since May 26.  Publicis  Chief Executive Officer  Maurice Levy  expects
digital sales in North America and in emerging markets to
account for 60 percent of all revenue at the company in two-to-
three years. The company will also outpace market growth for the
next three years and will continue seeking acquisitions, he said
in an interview last night.  “Unfortunately, we have more money than we can spend and
there’s not enough in the market to be acquired,” Levy said.  The company won $4.8 billion of net new business in the
first nine months of 2010, from clients including Glaxo Smith
Kline, H&R Block and Gucci.  Shares rose as much as 3.7 percent to 37.06 euros and were
up 3.4 percent as of 12:07 p.m., valuing the company at 7.1
billion euros.  Publicis will post a “strong” fourth quarter, Levy said,
adding that “the fourth quarter is where we can always see some
increases in investment or some cuts and there is a traditional
level of uncertainty.”  Growth Target  Publicis will probably reach 2008’s level of revenue growth
in 2011, Levy said.  Advertising markets have rebounded faster than expected,
Publicis’s ad-buying agency,  ZenithOptimedia Group Ltd. , said
this week, lifting its 2010 growth forecast for the third time
this year. Global ad expenditure this year will increase 4.8
percent, compared with a forecast of 3.5 percent in July and 2.2
percent April, the agency said.  Companies are devoting more of their budgets to marketing
campaigns after cutbacks during the recent economic downturn.  Havas SA , Publicis’s French rival, this week said its
third-quarter revenue rose 5.3 percent to 386 million euros
while the U.S.’s  Omnicom Group Inc.  yesterday said its sales
rose 5.5 percent in the quarter to $2.99 billion.  Publicis said it had net debt of 512 million euros at the
end of September, a decline of 277 million euros from the year
before.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kristen Schweizer  in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net . 