-- Traders Expect Nearer-Term Losses for H&R Block, Swaps Show
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2010-10-22T00:17:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/traders-expect-near-term-trouble-for-h-r-block-swaps-show.html
Credit-default swap traders drove
the cost of protecting H&R Block Inc.’s debt against near-term
losses to the highest ever, compared with longer-dated
contracts.  The tax preparer originated home mortgages through January
2008 and some of the loans were bundled into securities. Buyers
of the bonds have the right to demand the company buy back the
debt if loans were sold based on false or missing information.
H&R Block has repurchase reserves of $188 million for potential
losses on faulty mortgages, interim Chief Financial Officer
 Jeffrey Brown  said Sept. 3.  “People perceive a great deal of short-term risk, and that
if you make it past those risks, then you’re probably OK,” said
 Michael Reiner , a credit strategist at Societe Generale.  One-year credit swaps on debt of  Block Financial LLC , which
issues all of Kansas City, Missouri-based parent H&R Block’s
public corporate debt, are trading 230.8 basis points higher
than the annual cost to protect the bonds for five years,
according to data provider CMA.  Contracts protecting the debt for five years rose 11 basis
points to 831.9, CMA prices show. One-year credit-default swaps
for Block climbed 17.7 basis points to 1,062.7, CMA prices show.
The rush to protect debt for the near term may be waning, Reiner
said.  “At some point, it becomes a little overdone,” he said.
The company’s next  debt maturity  isn’t until 2013, and resolving
the mortgage putback issue may take a while, he said. “It’s not
like they’re going to be required to take back all these
mortgages at par tomorrow or in a year from now. It’s going to
be a few years.”  Kate O’Neill Rauber, a spokeswoman for the company, didn’t
immediately respond to telephone messages seeking comment.  Mortgage Risk  H&R Block faces risk from almost $13 billion of mortgages
sold by its former Option One mortgage unit that are currently
at least 60 days delinquent or have caused investor losses in
the past year, RBS Securities Inc. said in a report today. That
compares with the company’s market capitalization of $3.28
billion.  Across the industry, banks affected by mortgage putbacks
will lose about 53 percent on loans that they must repurchase,
according to an Oct. 19 report by Barclays Capital Plc.  Moody’s Investors Service downgraded Block Financial one
step to Baa2 with a negative outlook, citing declining volumes
on tax returns and the risk of further losses in market share to
digital competition. The view also reflects the potential for
increased mortgage repurchases, Moody’s said.  Markit CDX Falls  Credit-default swaps on the Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Index, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
declined 0.9 basis point to a mid-price of 96.9, according to
index administrator Markit Group Ltd. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  The index, which typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates, closed at the lowest in
more than five months on Oct. 13 at 95.5 basis points.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings decreased 2 basis points to 99.3, and
the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps on 50
companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings dropped 12.5
basis points to 460, Markit prices show.  Credit-default swaps fell on some companies that reported
third-quarter earnings. Contracts on Travelers Cos. dropped 7.3
basis points to 79.2 after the company beat estimates and raised
its earnings forecast for 2010. Those on Freeport-McMoRan Copper
& Gold Inc. fell 9.6 basis points to 124.5 after the largest
publicly traded copper producer reported profit that topped
analysts’ estimates and increased its dividend after output and
metal prices increased.  Possible Acquisition  Contracts on newspaper publisher the  New York Times Co. 
eased 26.2 basis points to 239, CMA data show, after an investor
group said yesterday it may make an offer to acquire the
company’s Boston Globe newspaper.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  