-- Rare-Earth Furor Overlooks China's 2006 Industrial Policy Signal
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-21T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/rare-earth-contention-in-u-s-japan-overlooks-china-s-2006-policy-signal.html
China’s curbs on rare-earth exports
may owe more to a 2006 policy to create fewer, larger companies
than a knee-jerk response to trade and territorial disputes.  A directive that year tagged mining among the pillar
industries the government wanted state enterprises to dominate
to enhance returns and global competitiveness. This year it
started closing down private mining companies to consolidate the
industry around a handful of producers led by  Inner Mongolia
Baotou Steel  Rare Earth High-Tech Co.  Global repercussions from the overhaul drew attention in
July when the government said it would cut export quotas 72
percent in the second half of the year. China accounts for more
than 90 percent of worldwide production of the metals, used in
components for  Toyota  Motor Corp. hybrid cars, Lockheed Martin
Corp. radars and General Dynamics Corp. tanks.  “It’s not a new policy,” said  Peng Bo , an analyst at
Shenzhen, China-based Guosen Securities Co. “China, as a
supplier of 97 percent of rare-earth demand, feels a need to
control both production and exports and doesn’t want to sell at
dirt-cheap prices.”  The export cutbacks and China’s near-monopoly has prompted
the U.S. government to seek to revive domestic mining and led
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  to call for expanded production
in eastern Europe and Central Asia as an alternative supply.  China said this week it hasn’t suspended shipments to
the U.S. and Europe as reported on Oct. 20 by the New York Times.
Those sanctions were imposed after a Chinese official summoned
foreign journalists to denounce U.S. trade actions, including a
probe into Chinese subsidies of clean energy exports, the Times
said.  Japan Shipments  Japan said China halted shipments of rare earths last month
after a collision in disputed waters between a Chinese trawler
and the Japanese Coast Guard led to the fishing-boat captain’s
detention. Chief Cabinet Secretary  Yoshito Sengoku  said Oct. 20
that the import situation “hadn’t changed” weeks after the
captain’s release.  Nobel Prize-winning economist  Paul Krugman  wrote in the New
York Times on Oct. 18 that “the incident shows a Chinese
government that is dangerously trigger-happy, willing to wage
economic warfare on the slightest provocation.”  China started to rein in mining of rare earths in May 2009,
setting production quotas to help bolster prices. The caps and
subsequent export restrictions did just that. Cerium oxide, used
for polishing semiconductors, soared sevenfold in the past six
months and other elements have more than doubled, according to
Metal-Pages Ltd. in London, which tracks prices. The term rare
earth applies to a group of 17 chemically similar metal elements
that also include lanthanum and neodymium.  ‘Management and Control’  China’s Premier  Wen Jiabao  on Oct. 6 told European business
leaders in Brussels it was “necessary to exercise management
and control over the rare earth industry, but there won’t be any
embargo,”  according  to the official People’s Daily. “China is
not using rare earths as a bargaining chip,” the newspaper
cited him as saying.  Outside of China, the surge in prices persuaded companies
to announce new production plans. A California mine owned by
Greenwood, Colorado-based  Molycorp Inc . that was shuttered in
2002 plans to reopen within the next two years. Sydney-based
 Lynas Corp.  said it may start extracting rare earth metals in
Australia late next year.  “Until 2012 when we start producing, the U.S. has to rely
on China,” Molycorp Chief Executive Officer  Mark Smith  said in
an Oct. 19 interview in Xiamen, China, where he was attending an
industry conference.  Mine Closures  Inside China, mine closures continue. Inner Mongolia Baotou
is now the sole producer in the South Africa-sized region from
where it takes its name, Deputy General Manager  Li Zhong  said at
the same industry gathering.  There remain more than 100 smaller producers in southern
China that are coming under increasing regulatory scrutiny
because of the 2006 consolidation edict and reports of
environmental damage caused by mines that generate 2,000 tons of
waste for every ton of ore.  “Small rare-earth producers in the south have suffered
from government regulations and policies,” said Wen Yihui,
general manager of Hunan Yiyang Hongyuan Rare Earth Co Ltd. ,
one of the largest private producers in southern China. “We are
still a small producer whose survival is very much reliant on
government policy changes.”  Japanese Precedent  Government-led industry consolidation aimed at creating
profitable companies in strategic industries is not unique to
China. In postwar Japan, the former Ministry of International
Trade and Industry pushed an industrial policy aimed at limiting
competition in steel, coal mining, shipbuilding and other
industries, according to Takako Ishihara, a professor
specializing in antitrust policy at Hyogo University. China’s
version also includes steel, autos and telecommunications.  Liu Aisheng, former director of the Chinese Society of Rare
Earth, said in an August interview that excessive mining by
small companies caused inefficiencies and low prices that the
government needed to address by limiting production.  “Chinese exports have declined, because domestic reserves
dropped significantly,” said Jiang Fan, deputy director general
of the  Commerce Ministry’s  Department of Foreign Trade, speaking
in Xiamen on Oct. 19. “China’s rare earth industry once was
very chaotic, and seriously damaged the environment and
resources.”  -- Xiao Yu ,  Michael Forsythe ,  Feiwen Rong . Editors:  Bill Austin ,
 Ben Richardson .  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story Xiao Yu in
Xiamen at   yxiao@bloomberg.net ; Michael
Forsythe in Beijing   mforsythe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs in Sydney at 
 ahobbs@bloomberg.net . 