-- Treasuries Fluctuate Amid Speculation on Policy Makers' Bond-Buy Decision
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2010-10-22T20:54:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/treasury-30-year-yield-near-one-week-low-as-investors-seek-higher-returns.html
Treasuries  fluctuated amid
speculation about how much U.S. debt the Federal Reserve may buy
if it resumes asset purchases to spur the economy.  Ten-year note yields touched a one-week high after falling
earlier following Fed Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard ’s statement yesterday that the size of asset buys should
be based on economic conditions, starting with $100 billion next
month. Citigroup Global Markets Inc. said it expects $500
billion to $700 billion in purchases.  Alan Blinder , former vice
chairman of the Fed, said $500 billion is “too small.”  “We’re in a wait-and-see mode now,” said  Kevin Flanagan , a
Purchase, New York-based fixed-income strategist for Morgan
Stanley Smith Barney. “There are a lot of balls being juggled,
and the market is trying to figure out what is going to be the
end game here.”  The benchmark  10-year note yield  rose one basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 2.56 percent at 4:53 p.m. in New York
after touching 2.58 percent, the highest level in a week,
according to BGCantor Market Data. It earlier fell as much as
two basis points. The yield, which was little changed on the
week, reached a high for the year of 4.01 percent in April. The
price of the 2.625 percent security due in August 2020 declined
1/8, or $1.25 per $1,000 face amount, to 100 18/32.  The  30-year bond  yield fell three basis points to 3.93
percent. The yield, which reached a 2010 high of 4.86 percent in
April, earlier increased to 3.99 percent. The yield fell five
basis points for the week.  ‘Further Action’  Investors have been debating how much debt the Fed may buy
to spur inflation and employment since Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said Oct. 15 there appears to be a “case for further action.”
The strategy is called quantitative easing.  The central bank will say after its Nov. 2-3 policy meeting
it will buy securities at a rate of $100 billion per month for
an initial total of $500 billion to $700 billion, Citigroup
strategists led by  Amitabh Arora  in New York wrote in a research
note today. The firm is one of 18 primary dealers that trade
with the Fed. Citigroup clients’ average expectation of the
amount is $560 billion, according to a survey by the firm.  “The Fed should definitely try and expand its balance sheet
a lot -- at least $1 trillion or so if they want to make a dent
on the lack of liquidity,” said  Dominic Konstam , global head of
interest-rates research in New York at primary dealer Deutsche
Bank AG, in an interview with Bloomberg Radio.  ‘Making It Up’  Blinder, the former central-bank vice chairman, said policy
makers “are making it up as they go along.”  He said in an
interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  he doesn’t
expect the central bank to announce a “shock-and-awe” purchase
effort next month but to “dribble it out” by buying in smaller
increments.  “It does take a lot of money to move the prices of
government bonds,” Blinder said, adding that “$500 billion for
the total amount is too small.”  Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  said today he
doesn’t consider deflation “a significant risk right now.”  “I actually see the prospects of inflation returning to
about 2 percent over the course of the next year, gradually
rising,” Plosser, 62, said at an event in Philadelphia.  Bullard of the St. Louis Fed proposed that the central bank
buy long-term Treasuries next month and consider more purchases
later in units of $100 billion.  “We could give forward guidance for the next meeting that
would suggest how likely the committee thinks we would continue
these purchases,” Bullard said at a conference.  Reinvestment Program  The Fed bought $2.49 billion of Treasuries today as part of
a program to reinvest principal payments on its mortgage
holdings into long-term government debt. They mature from April
2013 to June 2013, the New York Fed said in a  statement . The
central bank has purchased $58.2 billion of Treasuries since
beginning the program Aug. 17.  The U.S. will sell $35 billion in two-year notes, the same
amount of five-year securities and $29 billion in seven-year
debt in auctions that begin Oct. 26, the Treasury said
yesterday. It will also sell $10 billion of five-year inflation-
indexed securities on Oct. 25.  Policy makers need to be mindful of the effect their
actions are having on the dollar, said  Richard Fisher , president
of the Dallas Fed and a former deputy U.S. trade representative.  “We need to be aware of the impact whatever we do has on
other variables, and one of the variables is the dollar, the
value of the dollar against other currencies,” Fisher said in an
interview this week at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York.  The greenback fluctuated as Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  proposed that G-20 members meeting in Gyeongju, South
Korea, resolve currency tensions by lowering trade surpluses and
deficits to “below a specified share” of their economies.  Drop in Dollar  The Dollar Index , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major
trading partners, has fallen 3.8 percent since Sept. 21, when
the Fed said it was “prepared to provide additional
accommodation” to support the economic recovery.  Some investors are betting Fed efforts to spur the economy
will lead to faster inflation, yields indicate.  The  difference  between the rate on 30-year bonds and
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader
expectations for consumer prices, widened to 2.54 percentage
points from 2.12 percentage points on Oct. 1. The five-year
average is 2.40 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  