-- Record Crop Cooling Food Inflation Attracts Nomura to Bonds: India Credit
-- B y   M a d e l e n e   P e a r s o n   a n d   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2010-10-22T05:56:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/record-crop-cooling-food-inflation-attracts-nomura-to-bonds-india-credit.html
India is forecasting record crops
this year that may damp food prices, prompting Nomura Holdings
Inc. and Barclays Plc to predict a rally in the nation’s  bonds .  The nation will have unprecedented harvests of corn and
soy,  Atul Chaturvedi , chief executive officer of Adani Wilmar
Ltd., a unit of India’s biggest farm-produce trader, said in an
Oct. 20 interview. Shree Renuka Sugars Ltd., the largest refiner
by capacity, said last week output will beat estimates. Nomura
predicts the benchmark 10-year bond  yield  will drop 37 basis
points to an eight-month low of 7.75 percent by March 31 and
Barclays expects a similar slide by year-end.  Kokusai Asset Management Co. and Forefront Capital
Management Pvt. say five interest-rate increases this year will
cool  inflation , even after China raised borrowing costs this
week for the first time since 2007. The Reserve Bank of India,
which needs to keep food costs from escalating in a nation where
more than 70 percent of residents live on less than $2 a day,
forecasts gains in the wholesale-price index will moderate to 6
percent by March from 11 percent in April.  “The price effect will be visible from November onwards as
actual harvesting starts now,”  Sonal Varma , a Mumbai-based
economist at Nomura, said in an Oct. 19 interview. “We are
bullish on bonds based on inflation.”  Food Inflation  Food inflation slowed to 15.5 percent in the week ended
Oct. 9 from 16.3 percent a week earlier and this year’s high of
22.9 percent reached in June, a government report showed this
week. Data last week showed wholesale-price inflation in
September was 8.62 percent, holding near an eight-month low of
8.51 percent in August.  Reserve Bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao, who has lifted the
reverse repurchase rate 175 basis points, or 1.75 percentage
points, in 2010, will leave the rate unchanged for the rest of
the year, according to the median forecast of eight economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. The central bank meets next on Nov. 2 to
review the  repurchase  rate, currently at 5 percent.  “The environment surrounding India’s bond markets has been
improving with the risk of aggressive rate hikes fading,”
 Takahide Irimura , head of emerging-market research in Tokyo at
Kokusai Asset that manages about $60 billion in assets, said in
an interview on Oct. 20.  Above-Average Rains  The government says the heaviest monsoon rains since 2007
will boost farm output, which accounts for about 20 percent of
the economy in the nation of 1.2 billion people. India received
913 millimeters (35.9 inches) of rainfall between June 1 and
Sept. 30, or 102 percent of the long-term average, according to
a statement on India Meteorological Department’s website.  Monsoon-sown food-grain output may rise 10.4 percent and
rice output may climb 5.9 percent, the farm ministry said on
Sept. 23. Corn production may exceed 20 million metric tons in
the year to June 2011, topping a record 19.73 million tons,
Adani Wilmar’s Chaturvedi said. Soybean output may climb to an
all-time high of more than 10 million tons, he said.  Sugar production may be 26 million metric tons in the year
started Oct. 1,  Narendra Murkumbi , managing director of Shree
Renuka Sugars, said in an interview on Oct. 13. That is more
than 25.5 million tons forecast by the Indian Sugar Mills
Association.  ‘Good for Inflation’  “A decent harvest plus above-average monsoon mean we’ve
seen better yields,” Radhika Gupta, Mumbai-based director at
Forefront Capital, said in an interview on Oct. 19. “So
ultimately prices of staples should moderate, which is a good
thing for inflation.”  At the same time, the increase in food prices in China has
accelerated as floods have disrupted supplies. In September,
food costs rose 8 percent from a year earlier, after climbing
3.7 percent in January, this year’s lowest pace. The nation’s
 consumer price  inflation accelerated 3.6 percent last month, the
fastest in 23 months, the statistics bureau said yesterday.  Since China raised borrowing costs on Oct. 19, the yield on
India’s 7.8 percent note due May 2020 has climbed 5 basis points
to 8.13 percent yesterday.  The yield on the 10-year bond fell one basis point to 8.12
percent as of 9:09 a.m. in Mumbai after the central bank said
late yesterday it will buy back 120 billion rupees of bonds due
this year and next through an auction on Oct. 25.  India’s 10-year bond yield is higher than China’s 3.63
percent and lower than Brazil’s 12.18 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The  difference  in yields between India’s
debt due in a decade and similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries was
559 basis points and has averaged 317 in the past decade.  Foreign Investment  Overseas investors have pumped a record $23.3 billion into
Indian stocks this year, according to exchange data, making a
measure that weighs company earnings against their shares prices
the costliest in Asia. Inflows into rupee bonds this year are at
$10 billion, the Securities & Exchange Board of India said
yesterday.  “There’s very little slack available and we’re starting to
see non-food inflationary pressures as the primary driver in
inflation,”  Kenneth Akintewe , a Singapore-based investment
manager at Aberdeen Asset Management Plc that oversees $261
billion globally, said in an interview on Oct. 20. “There is
still a need for policy to address this. I’m expecting that you
would see around 25 to 50 basis points before the RBI entertains
moving to a hold.”  As borrowing costs rose, the nation’s local-currency debt
returned 3.52 percent in 2010, the worst performance in Asia
excluding China, where investors earned 2.50 percent, according
to indexes compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc.  The rupee has gained 2.3 percent in the past month, the
third-best performance among Asia’s most-active currencies
excluding the yen, on optimism that policy makers are gaining
control over inflation. The currency fell 0.4 percent today to
44.4850 per dollar.  “Given the moderation in inflation, we think the Reserve
Bank is almost done with its rate-increase cycle,”  Kumar Rachapudi , a fixed-income strategist at Barclays in Singapore,
said in an interview on Oct. 20. “We expect the benchmark
inflation to come down to 6 percent by December-end and that may
send the yield on the 10-year bond lower by as much as 30 basis
points to 7.7 percent.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Madelene Pearson  in Mumbai at 
 mpearson1@bloomberg.net 
 Kartik Goyal  in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  