-- Republicans Seek to Capitalize on Bailouts, Health Care: Races to Watch
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 2010-10-21T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/republicans-seeking-to-capitalize-on-bailouts-health-care-races-to-watch.html
With the Nov. 2 midterm elections
less than two weeks away, political analysts are focusing on
races that will help determine whether Republicans oust
Democrats from control of the U.S. House and Senate and how the
two parties fare in gubernatorial races.  Bloomberg Businessweek takes a look in its Oct. 25 issue at
eight key contests, from coast to coast, that illustrate some of
the issues, trends and voter dynamics at work in the 2010
campaign. These factors include turnout concerns facing
Democrats, public opposition to the Troubled Asset Relief
Program and the health-care overhaul, and the role of spending
by pro-Republican outside groups.  Indiana: Early Clue  When Democrat  Baron Hill  won his U.S. House race in 2006,
he retook the Indiana seat from the Republican who had bounced
him from office two years earlier. Hill’s return signaled a
national wave that put his party in control of Congress.  This year, Republicans hope to once again defeat Hill in
this competitive district in the state’s southeast corner. With
polls closing at 6 p.m. Eastern, the outcome may provide an
early glimpse of what’s in store nationwide.  Hill faces a new Republican challenger, local prosecutor
Todd Young. A Hill loss could indicate “a really bad night for
the Democrats,” said Brian Vargus, a political scientist at
Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis. The district
-- which includes Bloomington, home of Indiana University, and
which Obama lost to  John McCain  by 1 percentage point in 2008 --
“is the type Republicans should win in a wave,” said  Nathan Gonzales  of the nonpartisan Rothenberg Political Report.  Virginia: Turnout Crucial  Buoyed by college students and blacks energized by  Barack Obama ’s presidential bid, Democrat  Tom Perriello  two years ago
won a U.S. House seat in Virginia by 727 votes -- in percentage
terms, the nation’s closest congressional contest. This year,
his race against Republican  Robert Hurt , a state senator, tests
whether Democrats can survive without Obama on the ticket and
with their records including such unpopular votes as the health-
care overhaul passed in March.  In the largely rural district that includes the University
of Virginia, about 20 percent of 2008’s voters were African
American, and the college yielded 4,000 new Democratic backers.
Many of those have graduated, while newcomer students don’t seem
as motivated.  “Perriello would be lucky to get a third” as many to the
polls, said  David Wasserman  of the nonpartisan Cook Political
Report. Perriello raked in $3.1 million by Oct. 15 to Hurt’s
$1.7 million. Still, polls show him lagging Hurt, who excoriates
government’s growth.  West Virginia: Senate Control  Democrat  Joe Manchin  is the popular West Virginia governor
vying for the Senate seat opened up by  Robert Byrd ’s death in
June. An Oct. 12 survey by Public Policy Polling, though, shows
47 percent of voters would prefer Manchin, who won re-election
with 70 percent of the vote in 2008, remain as governor.  He’s also battling Obama’s unpopularity in the state; the
lost it in 2008 by 13 percentage points. The upshot may be a
crucial Republican win that helps the party gain the 10 seats it
needs for Senate control.  Republican businessman John Raese has turned the contest
into a toss-up by urging West Virginians to do their part to put
a check on Obama. To counter that argument, Manchin in one ad
dons a hunter’s outfit and, toting a shotgun, promises to “get
the federal government off our backs.” The ad ends with Manchin
shooting a bullet through Obama-backed climate-change
legislation -- disliked in the coal-rich state -- that’s nailed
to a tree.  Ohio: Obama Visits  Obama was back in Columbus, Ohio, on Oct. 17 for a get-out-
the-vote rally on the Ohio State University campus. It was his
11th trip to the state since taking office -- and his fourth to
Columbus. One of his aims is to aid U.S. Representative  Mary Jo Kilroy , a freshman Democrat battling for another term. Obama
himself, though, has plenty to gain from reminding Ohio voters
why they backed him in 2008.  He won Kilroy’s district by 9 percentage points, while she
eked out a 2,311-vote win. Polls show Kilroy trailing this year
after supporting Obama’s health-care bill, the economic stimulus
package, and new rules for the nation’s financial markets.  Some Obama voters are rethinking their support for the
president and his party. “I just think we need a change,” said
Gordon Reis, a resident of Worthington, Ohio. He said he plans
to vote for just one Democrat this year -- a county commission
candidate -- after voting for Obama and Kilroy in 2008.  Texas: TARP Vote  There’s no shortage of Democratic candidates under fire for
having cast unpopular votes in the last two years. One of those
is Texas Democrat  Chet Edwards , a 10-term House incumbent who
has hung onto his heavily Republican district, wedged between
Dallas and Austin, in part by rejecting some of his party’s
biggest priorities.  This term, he opposed Obama’s health-care overhaul. He gave
Republican challenger Bill Flores an opening with votes for TARP
and the stimulus plan, which the lawmaker concedes might finally
do him in. “It may cost me an election,” Edwards told the Dallas
Morning News. “But it was the right thing to do.”  Analysts give Flores the edge, even though most Republican
leaders in Congress voted for TARP, too. News that the bank
bailout will cost about $50 billion, a fraction of what was
initially projected, may be too late for Edwards.  Colorado: Outside Spending  Colorado may be Republican  Karl Rove ’s next proving ground.
Independent groups, two of which the one-time political
strategist for former President  George W. Bush  helped start, are
pouring money into the state. Between Sept. 1 and Oct. 17,
outside groups reported spending $13.6 million in Colorado, more
than in any other state, with $8.5 million helping Republican
candidates.  “You can’t have your television on for 10 or 15 minutes
without seeing at least two or three ads saying that someone
shouldn’t have been born,” said  Kenneth Bickers , chairman of the
University of Colorado at Boulder’s political science
department.  The Rove groups,  American Crossroads  and  Crossroads GPS ,
raised $56 million and spent $3.7 million through Oct. 17 to
oppose Democratic Senator  Michael Bennet , who is in a tight race
with Republican  Ken Buck , a favorite of Tea Party activists
seeking reduced government. Colorado also has three House
Democrats --  Ed Perlmutter ,  John Salazar , and  Betsy Markey  --
battling to survive politically, making them vulnerable to
attacks. The outside money may tilt the balance.  Nevada: Tea Party Test  Even Las Vegas oddsmakers would be hard-pressed to pick
this one.  Polls show  the contest in Nevada between Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid  and  Sharron Angle , a Tea Party-backed
Republican, is one of the nation’s closest. It may well be the
most important, too.  The race has become a proxy for whether Tea Party
insurgents who overcame opposition from many elected Republicans
to win primaries can go on to triumph in general elections. And
in the case of Angle, she is trying to defeat one of the leaders
of the party in power. Obama has rallied around Reid, with the
president set to make his third appearance in the state
tomorrow. Reid needs all the help he can get -- Angle raised
more than $14 million in the year’s third quarter to his
$2.8 million. Much of the spending has gone toward attack ads.  When the candidates faced off in an Oct. 14 debate, Reid
repeatedly called Angle extreme, while Angle called on Reid to
“man up” in dealing with the long-term financing of the Social
Security program.  Oregon: Governor’s Race  The anti-politician mood evident in much of the U.S. is
bolstering the prospects of Republican Chris Dudley in Oregon’s
gubernatorial race, as the political newcomer seeks to break the
state’s streak of six straight Democratic chief executives.  If Dudley prevails, he would be part of a net gain in
Republican governors that some analysts say could go as high as
eight and may include replacing Democratic administrations in
such major states as Ohio, Pennsylvania and Michigan. That would
put the party in enviable shape as states prepare to redraw
their political boundaries in the wake of the 2010 Census.  Dudley, a former center on the Portland Trail Blazers
basketball team, is in a tight race with Democrat  John Kitzhaber 
to replace retiring Governor  Ted Kulongoski . Kitzhaber, governor
from 1995 to 2003, argues his experience will benefit a state
with 10.6 percent unemployment. Dudley, literally a towering
figure at 6-foot-11, said his lack of a political pedigree is an
asset. Oregon’s balloting is mail-in or hand-in by 8 p.m. local
time on Nov. 2. Results are announced on Election Day after 11
p.m. Eastern. 