-- Rice Futures Advance, Heading for Longest Winning Streak Since March 2008
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2010-10-21T12:20:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/rice-futures-advance-heading-for-longest-winning-streak-since-march-2008.html
Rice futures advanced for an eighth
straight day, heading for the longest winning streak since March
2008, on concern that increased demand and crop losses in the
biggest producers may curb global supply.  Stockpiles held by the world’s five biggest exporters will
likely decline next year, tightening global supply and
supporting prices,  Concepcion Calpe , senior economist at the
Food & Agriculture Organization of the UN, said from Rome. The
price has gained 16 percent this month.  “The danger will be for next year,” Calpe said in a phone
interview yesterday. “The U.S. will likely revise production
downward and stocks held by major exporters will be in a tighter
situation than this year. They’ll export a lot this year.”  Rice for January delivery rose 14.5 cents, or 1 percent, to
$14.53 per 100 pounds on the Chicago Board of Trade. Futures
earlier touched $14.59, the highest price for the most-active
contract since Feb. 4.  Shipments from Thailand, Vietnam, Pakistan, the U.S. and
India, which account for about 80 percent of global trade, will
gain 8.4 percent from a year earlier to 24.7 million metric tons
this year, draining stockpiles, according to Bloomberg
calculations based on Oct. 8  estimates  by the U.S. Department of
Agriculture.  “Concerns over tightening supply and lower stockpiles are
supportive of prices,” Kiattisak Kanlayasirivat, a director at
Novel Commodities SA’s Thai office, which trades about $600
million of rice a year, said from Hong Kong today.  The USDA lowered on Oct. 8 its estimate for this year’s
U.S. rice paddy production by 5 percent to 11 million tons and
forecast that average yield per acre would drop to the lowest
since the 2005-2006 season.  Crop Losses  The harvest in the U.S., the world’s fourth-largest
exporter last year, may be at least 10 percent smaller than the
latest USDA estimate, missing a forecast for record output and
pushing prices higher,  Dwight Roberts , president of the U.S.
Rice Producers’ Association, said Oct. 11.  Hot weather was forecast to curb yields in the U.S., as
rice crops in Thailand and Vietnam, the two largest exporters,
and the Philippines, the biggest buyer, were hurt by excessive
rains and flooding. Crop damage in those countries comes amid
production losses in Pakistan, the third-largest exporter last
year, where floods destroyed 2.39 million tons of rice, Farm
Minister  Nazar Muhammad Gondal  said on Sept. 28.  “These weather patterns are making the already tight
market even more confusing,” Roberts said in an e-mail today in
response to Bloomberg questions. “This market has volatility
stamped all over it. Every day, weather developments bring a new
twist.”  Typhoon Damage  The main harvest in Thailand may drop as much as 20 percent
to less than 20 million tons after the worst floods in four
years, Banjong Tungjitwattanakun, vice president of the Thai
Rice Mills Association, said yesterday. The main crop, harvested
from October to April, typically accounts for 75 percent of
annual output.  The Philippines lost 314,577 tons of rice from Typhoon
Megi, the Department of Agriculture said in a statement today.
The damage widened from 222,336 tons estimated yesterday.  Losses may reach 600,000 tons, Agriculture Secretary
Antonio Fleta said Oct. 18, a day before the storm made
landfall.  In Vietnam, rice crops were flooded after rains earlier
this month, Nguyen Hieu Tam, head of rice research at Hanoi-
based Vietnam Market Analysis and Forecast Joint Stock Company,
said in an e-mail.  “There has been no official statistics about the loss to
agriculture,” Nguyen said. “The loss has, reportedly, reached
hundreds of thousands hectares of paddy.”  Reports on crop losses and expectations of tighter
stockpiles in the world’s biggest shippers are sustaining the
rice rally, Novel’s Kiattisak said.  That may also push the Thai rice  export  price, the Asian
benchmark, as much as $30 a ton higher by the end of the year,
from $510 a ton yesterday, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Luzi Ann Javier  in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole in Singapore at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  