-- Rice Supplies From U.S., Major Exporters to Tighten, FAO Says
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2010-10-21T04:13:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/rice-unlikely-to-fall-as-u-s-major-shippers-stocks-dwindle-fao-says.html
Rice stockpiles held by the world’s
five biggest exporters will likely decline next year, tightening
global supply and supporting prices, the  United Nations  said.  “The danger will be for next year,”  Concepcion Calpe ,
senior economist at the Food & Agriculture Organization of the
U.N., said in a phone interview yesterday. “The U.S. will
likely revise production downward and stocks held by major
exporters will be in a tighter situation than this year. They’ll
export a lot this year.”  Shipments from Thailand, Vietnam,  Pakistan , the U.S. and  India , which account for about 80 percent of global trade, will
gain 8.4 percent from a year earlier to 24.7 million metric tons
this year, according to Bloomberg calculations based on Oct. 8
 estimates  by the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .  Rough-rice futures in  Chicago  have surged 51 percent from
this year’s low of $9.55 per 100 pounds on June 30 as floods
destroyed crops in Pakistan and Thailand, dry weather curbed
yields in the U.S. and Typhoon Megi wrecked harvests in the  Philippines , the world’s biggest buyer.  “Prices are unlikely to fall,” Calpe said from  Rome .
“They need to have a good harvest this year to build up
stock,” she said, referring to Thailand and Vietnam, the two
biggest exporters.  Rice gained for an eighth day today, heading for the
longest winning streak for a most-active contract since March
2008. The contract climbed as much 0.8 percent to $14.495 per
100 pounds, the highest since Feb. 12, and traded at $14.48 at
12:12 p.m. Singapore time.  ‘More Confusing’  “These weather patterns are making the already tight
market even more confusing,” Dwight Roberts, president of the
U.S. Rice Producers’ Association, said in an e-mail in response
to Bloomberg questions. “This market has volatility stamped all
over it. Every day, weather developments bring a new twist.”  The Thai export price, the benchmark for  Asia , may rise to
as high as $550 a ton by the end of the year, from $510
yesterday, when the Philippines enters the global market to meet
its import needs, according to Roberts.  The main harvest in Thailand may drop as much as 20 percent
to less than 20 million tons after the worst floods in four
years hit the nation’s growing regions, Banjong
Tungjitwattanakun, vice president of the Thai Rice Mills
Association, said yesterday.  The main Thai crop, typically harvested from October to
April, accounts for 75 percent of the nation’s annual output.  In Vietnam, the second-largest shipper, rice crops were
flooded after rains earlier this month, Nguyen Hieu Tam, head of
rice research at Hanoi-based  Vietnam  Market Analysis and
Forecast Joint Stock Company, said in an e-mail.  Vietnam Losses  “There has been no official statistics about the loss to
agriculture,” Nguyen said. “The loss has, reportedly, reached
hundreds of thousands hectares of paddy.”  The rice harvest in the U.S., the world’s fourth-largest
exporter last year, may be at least 10 percent smaller than the
latest USDA estimate, missing a forecast for record output and
pushing prices higher, Roberts said Oct. 11.  The USDA lowered on Oct. 8 its estimate for this year’s
national rice paddy production by 5 percent to 11 million tons
and forecast that average yield per acre would drop to the
lowest since the 2005-2006 season.  The lower output forecasts for  Thailand  and U.S. came after
harvests in Pakistan were devastated by flooding. This week,
Typhoon Megi lashed the Philippines, widening the Southeast
Asian nation’s production deficit.  The country had lost 222,336 tons of rice from the storm as
of yesterday, Philippines Agriculture Spokesman Salvador
Sallacup said, citing initial estimates from affected areas.
Losses may reach 600,000 tons, Agriculture Secretary Antonio
Fleta said Oct. 18, a day before the storm made landfall.  Losses may widen as more areas report the extent of the
damage, Sallacup said. The storm affected 234,980 hectares
(580,648 acres), including Cagayan Valley and central Luzon, the
country’s two largest rice-growing regions, Sallacup said
yesterday. That’s bigger than the 157,000 hectares estimated by
Fleta two days earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole in Singapore at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  