-- Richard Becomes Atlantic's 17th Named Storm, Forecast to Intensify Soon
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2010-10-21T19:02:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/richard-becomes-atlantic-s-17th-named-storm-may-grow-on-track-to-mexico.html
Tropical Storm Richard developed in
the waters of the Caribbean off the coast of Honduras on a
projected track that will take it ashore on Mexico’s Yucatan
Peninsula early next week, the  National Hurricane Center  said.  Richard is the 17th system with winds of at least 39 miles
(63 kilometers) per hour to emerge this year, making 2010 the
sixth-most active Atlantic hurricane season on record and the
third-most active in the past 15 years. Only 2005 and 1995 have
seen more storms.  “Gradual intensification seems to be the best bet in the
short term,” according to a hurricane center forecast analysis
issued just before 11 a.m. East Coast time.  The storm may grow into a hurricane in the next few days as
it moves toward the Yucatan and enters the southern Gulf of
Mexico. Richard won’t be a threat to U.S. oil and gas platforms,
said  Jim Rouiller , senior energy meteorologist with Planalytics
Inc. in Berwyn, Pennsylvania.  The Gulf of Mexico is home to 31 percent of U.S. oil and 10
percent of its gas production, most of it concentrated in the
waters from Mississippi to Texas.  Richard is currently 200 miles south-southeast of Grand
Cayman with maximum sustained winds of 40 mph, according to the
hurricane center.  Likely Path  Rouiller said the most likely scenario is for the storm to
arc toward Florida and western Cuba after it crosses the
Yucatan, losing strength because colder and dryer air, as well
as hostile wind shear, will tear at its structure.  Some computer models show the system growing into a major
hurricane with winds of at least 111 mph, Category 3-level on
the five-step  Saffir-Simpson scale , prior to making landfall in
Mexico early next week, according to the hurricane center.  With 17 storms, 2010 is behind just 2005, with its record
28 storms, for the most this century. In 2008 and 2003, 16
developed. Nineteen formed in 1995.  “We’re getting into a very active season, one that is
reaching unusually active levels,” Rouiller said. “It just
lends credence to the notion that the Gulf of Mexico has dodged
a bullet this year. So has Florida.”  Preseason predictions called for 2010 to be an active year
because of warm water in the Atlantic and a lack of wind shear
across the basin.  Earlier Predictions  In August, the U.S.  Climate Prediction Center  revised its
forecast to call for 14 to 20 storms. It had originally
predicted 14 to 23 storms.  Colorado State University  in August
repeated its preseason forecast for 18 storms, 10 hurricanes and
5 major hurricanes. In addition to the 17 storms that have
formed, there have been 9 hurricanes, 5 of which became major.  “Certainly from a numbers perspective we’re very happy,”
said  Phil Klotzbach , co-author of the Colorado State forecast.
“It is certainly coming in as good as we can expect. You don’t
expect to do this good every year.”  The season, which  officially ends Nov. 30 , may produce a
few more storms.  The hurricane center is tracking a tropical wave off the
coast of Africa that has a 10 percent chance of becoming a storm
in the next two days. That system has caught Klotzbach’s eye.  Looking Ahead  The wave “is looking phenomenal and that could even form
in the next couple of days,” Klotzbach said. “Which would be
pretty interesting because usually you don’t have stuff form off
the coast of Africa  in late October .”  The waters between Africa and the Lesser Antilles are where
storms tend to form during the heart of hurricane season, from
mid-August to mid-September. As the Northern Hemisphere enters
autumn, the conditions that can help hurricanes form tend to
diminish in that area.  This year, the waters of the Atlantic have been warmer than
normal, which is in part what prompted many forecasters to
predict a more active season. Klotzbach said the water is still
very warm and may be what is helping the new system develop.  The Yucatan and Central America have received the bulk of
storm hits this year.  Last week, Hurricane Paula grazed the Yucatan before
striking western Cuba as a tropical storm, a month after
Tropical Storm Matthew drenched Honduras, Guatemala and southern
Mexico. Tropical Storm Karl plowed across the Yucatan on Sept.
15 after going ashore south of Cancun, then strengthened into a
hurricane over the Gulf before striking mainland Mexico near
Veracruz.  Earlier this season, Hurricane Alex also struck the area,
as did Tropical Storm Agatha, which came in off the Pacific. At
least 300 people have died from this year’s storms, according to
reports from several Central American nations.  “Certainly the U.S. has been very lucky,” Klotzbach said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian K. Sullivan  in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  