-- RIM BlackBerry Data Studied Amid Government Pressure
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2010-10-21T21:44:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/rim-blackberry-data-to-undergo-lab-study-amid-government-tracking-concern.html
Research In Motion Ltd.’s  BlackBerry
device will be studied by University of Toronto computer
scientists to determine how the smartphone’s data traffic is
handled in countries where governments have tried to track it.  The project was prompted by what the university’s Citizen
Lab said is a need to monitor the activities of companies that
“own and operate cyberspace, particularly as they come under
increasing pressure to cooperate with governments on national
surveillance and censorship laws, policies and requests,”
according to a  statement  on its website.  RIM has had to work this year with regulators in the United
Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia and India, which threatened to block
the BlackBerry amid concern that the device’s encrypted services
might be used for terrorist attacks and illegal actions. RIM
averted a ban in Saudi Arabia in August and in the United Arab
Emirates on Oct. 8.  India’s government has twice postponed planned shutdowns of
BlackBerry service and on Oct. 12 gave Waterloo, Ontario-based
RIM until the end of the year to come up with a solution to
allow security agencies to monitor BlackBerry data.  “Decisions taken by private-sector actors, often at the
behest of governments seeking access to their data or assistance
blocking websites, can have major consequences for human
rights,” the study’s organizers said in the release. “These
decisions can lack transparency and public accountability.”  “This project is meant to address that lack of
transparency,” they said.  No ‘Special Deals’  RIM said at the time of the United Arab Emirates decision
that it follows the principles for working with government
officials it laid out in an Aug. 12 statement and wouldn’t
comment further. RIM said in that statement it doesn’t do
“special deals for specific countries,” adding that the
security of its corporate e-mail system hasn’t changed.  RIM has also said it cannot help governments access the e-
mail systems of corporate customers because those companies hold
the encryption keys to those servers, not RIM.  Marisa Conway , a spokeswoman for RIM, didn’t immediately
reply to a message seeking comment on the Citizen Lab study.  Citizen Lab is teaming to perform the research with
Information Warfare Monitor, a venture between the university
and SecDev Group, an Ottawa-based think tank focused on security
issues. The lab helped uncover a cyber-espionage plot against
India’s government earlier this year that involved computers in
China.  RIM  rose  2 cents to $49.10 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The stock has dropped 27 percent
this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hugo Miller  in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 