-- Aluminum Demand to Rise 5.3% a Year, Output Increase Needed, Rio Projects
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2010-10-21T01:49:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/rio-s-mirchi-says-global-aluminum-output-increase-needed-by-2020.html
Aluminum producers will have to
expand global output by about two-thirds to keep pace with an
expected consumption increase of 5.3 percent a year over the
next decade, an executive at  Rio Tinto Group ’s Alcan unit said.  Unless new smelters are built by 2020, demand for the metal
used in car parts and airplanes will outstrip supply by 27
million metric tons a year, Amir Mirchi, vice president of
business development for the Middle East and North Africa at Rio
Tinto Alcan, said, citing company forecasts. Global aluminum
production and consumption this year will probably rise to about
40 million tons, he said.  “Growth has resumed, and the trend is very solid,” Mirchi
said at a conference in Montreal today organized by the Quebec
Manufacturers and Exporters group. “Experience has shown us
that when demand is there, production will be there. Someone
somewhere will build new capacity.”  HSBC Holdings Plc said in a note dated Oct 18 that it is
now turning positive on the metal after being bearish for two
years as it sees “tangible signs of impending market
tightness.” The bank sees a deficit in supply in 2012 and 2013.  Alcoa Inc. , the largest U.S. aluminum producer, expects
demand to grow at 6 percent a year in the next decade,  Alan Cransberg , managing director of the company’s Australian unit,
told a forum in Perth Oct. 18. Citing higher demand from China,
Brazil, Russia and India, Alcoa said earlier this month that
global consumption will climb by 13 percent this year.  Aluminum makers globally are shifting production to
developing countries as energy costs, which represent about one-
third of the cost of making the metal, climb in developed
nations, Mirchi said. China, which produced less than 1 million
tons of aluminum in 2000, now makes more than 15 million tons
annually, he said.  Part of the increase in global aluminum output may come
from a doubling of production at Oman’s Sohar smelter through
the addition of a second potline, Mirchi said. Rio owns 20
percent of Sohar, which produces more than 370,000 tons of the
metal annually.  “In Oman we have completed phase 1, and we have a goal to
get to more than 800,000 tons,” Mirchi said. Expansion “is
currently being considered by the joint venture partners,” he
said, without saying when a decision will be made.  Besides Rio, investors in Sohar include  Abu Dhabi National
Energy Co.  and Oman Oil Co.  Rio is also considering whether to build a smelter in
Algeria, Mirchi said in an interview after his speech. He
declined to say when a decision would be made.  “We are working with the Algerian government, and we are
still at the exploratory stage,” he said.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Frederic Tomesco  in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  