-- Rivlin's Shadow Panel Using 1983 Tactic to Break Deficit Logjam
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2010-10-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/rivlin-s-shadow-panel-adopts-reagan-era-tactic-to-fight-deficit-gridlock.html
Alice M. Rivlin , the grande dame of
budget politics, is trying to pull off the Washington equivalent
of a triple backflip off the high board.  Appointed by President  Barack Obama  to the bipartisan
commission named to recommend ways to rein in the runaway
 deficit , the 79-year-old says the group is paralyzed by politics
six weeks before its report is due, Bloomberg Businessweek
reports in its Oct. 25 issue.  The panel has all but taken  Medicare , one of the biggest
deficit drivers, off the table after the political battle over
this year’s health-care overhaul. Most Republican members are
dead-set against tax increases, most Democrats have drawn a
bright line around Social Security, and no serious negotiations
are taking place while midterm-election fights are being waged.  Rivlin is adopting a tactic that broke a similar stalemate
in January 1983, when the  National Commission on Social Security
Reform  disintegrated in partisan bickering.  Then-Senator  Daniel P. Moynihan , a New York Democrat,
walked across the Senate floor to Republican  Bob Dole  of Kansas,
the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, and said: “Bob,
we can’t let things end this way,” says  Steve Bell , who was
close to the discussions as the Budget Committee chief of staff.  The two lawmakers then formed a rump group that met outside
Congress and crafted a deal, which President  Ronald Reagan 
signed into law three months later, to raise the cap on payroll
taxes and the retirement age.  Republican Co-Chairman  Aiming for a repeat of history, Rivlin is leading what some
call a shadow deficit commission with Bell’s boss, former
Senator  Pete Domenici , a New Mexico Republican. It’s sponsored
by the Bipartisan Policy Center, a research organization started
by former Democratic and Republican Senate majority leaders, and
partially funded by the Rockefeller and Peterson foundations.
The commission meets regularly at the center’s Washington
office.  Also on the panel are  James Blanchard , a former Democratic
governor of Michigan, and  Donald Marron , director of the
Congressional Budget Office in 2005, when Republicans still
controlled Congress. They have joined 15 other budget hawks to
devise a plan they hope will serve as a model if the president’s
commission deadlocks, as many predict it will.  The Obama panel, officially called the National Commission
on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform, requires approval from 14
of its 18 members to recommend ways to balance the budget by
2015, excluding interest on the debt. The ad hoc group, which
predates the real deficit commission, is working on a plan that
will address the taboos the Obama commission is skirting,
including raising taxes and cutting  Social Security  and
Medicare, Rivlin says.  No Elected Officials  Making those tough choices is easier for her group, she
says, because it counts no elected officials.  “We are a similar-size group and also very dedicated to
getting a solution,” says Rivlin, a senior fellow at the
Brookings Institution in Washington and a former Federal Reserve
vice chairman. “The difference is none of us are running for
public office.”  The official panel, led by former Senator  Alan K. Simpson ,
a Wyoming Republican, and  Erskine B. Bowles , former President
 Bill Clinton ’s chief of staff, has a Dec. 1 deadline. Rivlin’s
group plans to unveil a proposal Nov. 17, giving the official
commission time to study it.  ‘Last-Minute Deliberations’  “We hope we can influence the last-minute deliberations
the same way that the ‘83 commission looked like it would fall
apart and came back together,” says Bell, now a visiting
scholar at the Bipartisan Policy Center.  Bruce Reed , director of the Obama panel, denies it has
given up on health care, yet agrees it will be tough.  “It will be harder to reach a supermajority on that issue
than on any other,” he says.  By all accounts, the  U.S. budget deficit  is on an
unsustainable path. It was $1.29 trillion, or 8.9 percent of the
total economy, in the 2010 fiscal year that ended Sept. 30.  Debt 
held by the public, now $9.2 trillion, or 63 percent of gross
domestic product, is projected to reach $18.5 trillion, or
78 percent of GDP, by 2020, according to the Office of
Management and Budget. Between 1960 and 2000, debt averaged
37 percent of GDP. Interest payments could reach $1 trillion a
year within a decade.  Failure to address the debt could undermine would-be
lenders’ confidence that the U.S. government can make good on
what it owes. That in turn may force the  Treasury  to borrow at
higher interest rates, choking off growth and triggering a
downturn that would bring greater  unemployment , stagnant wages,
and ever more debt.  Medicare No-Go  The shadow panel, Rivlin says, won’t be afraid to sound the
alarm. While Medicare is likely a no-go for the actual
commission, she says her group will put it front and center.
Medicare spending, at  $519 billion , or 3.6 percent of GDP, this
year, is projected to hit $929 billion by 2020, the CBO says.
Without any changes, it will be insolvent within seven years,
Medicare trustees say.  “You can’t solve the problem in any permanent sense
without reducing the rate of health-care growth,” Rivlin says.
“That is the central issue.”  She says her parallel effort also will suggest cuts to
 Social Security . Spending for that program is projected to rise
to about 6.2 percent of GDP by 2035, when nearly all baby
boomers will have retired, from about 4.8 percent this year.
Rivlin wouldn’t offer specifics, while saying there is a
“finite” list of options, including increasing the early
retirement age, currently 62.  Earnings Cap  In a July 21 article, Rivlin also argued for benefit
reductions for high earners, along with raising the limit on
earnings subject to the payroll tax, now at $106,800. One plan
by  Robert C. Pozen , chairman emeritus of MFS Investment
Management in Boston, would base initial benefits on prices
rather than wages, and could solve half the problem since wages
historically rise faster than prices.  The president’s panel may limit itself to making a
recommendation about what to do with the Bush-era tax cuts that
expire at the end of the year, says  Ross K. Baker , a
congressional expert at Rutgers University in New Brunswick, New
Jersey.  “It’s a time-honored tradition when you’ve got an
intractable problem to hand it over to a commission,” he says.  Getting anyone to listen to her group will be a tall order,
Rivlin says. Yet as an independent voice, it could provide
political cover for unpopular solutions.  “The cover of outside experts is important,” says  Chuck Blahous , a former economic aide to President  George W. Bush  and
a public trustee for Social Security and Medicare. “Otherwise,
you just wind up replicating the partisan divide in Congress.”  The shadow group sees its work as an example for Obama’s
commission, Rivlin says. “We think it’ll be useful; we think
it’ll get attention.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Heidi Przybyla  in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  