-- Ruble Strengthens from One-Month Low as Weakening, Crude Oil Lures Traders
-- B y   E m m a   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2010-10-21T08:21:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/ruble-strengthens-from-one-month-low-as-weakening-crude-oil-lures-traders.html
The  ruble  rebounded from its weakest
level in almost a month against the dollar as rising oil prices
spurred traders to buy the currency at cheaper levels.  Russia’s currency gained 0.6 percent to 30.73 per dollar
by 11:20 a.m. in Moscow, after dropping to the weakest since
Sept. 23 yesterday.  The ruble was the worst performing developing market
currency versus the dollar tracked by Bloomberg yesterday. It
slumped to its weakest level against the central bank’s dollar-
euro basket since December amid speculation investors were
testing the currency’s new corridor, which Bank Rossii expanded
to 4 rubles from 3 on Oct. 13, according to  Ivan Tchakarov ,
chief Russia economist at BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research.
Crude, Russia’s chief export earner, gained for a second day,
rising as much as 1.1 percent to $82.70 a barrel in New York
today.  Yesterday’s declines were “just pure panic with the
central bank choosing an inopportune time to change its
intervention strategy at a time of declining current-account
surplus,” Tchakarov said in an e-mail interview in Moscow.
“Time seems ripe for a reversal.”  Russia is easing its control over the ruble as other
emerging markets try to limit their currency’s strength and
restrict foreign investors’ access to local assets. While Brazil
doubles a tax on bond purchases by overseas investors, South
Korea audits banks’ foreign currency trading and South Africa
buys dollars to stem gains in the rand, Russia is becoming more
“marginal” as it moves toward allowing the managed currency to
trade freely by a 2012 target, Bank Rossii’s First Deputy
Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev  said Oct. 5.  Ruble Versus Euro  The ruble weakened for a second day against the euro,
slipping as much as 0.6 percent to 43.0029 per euro, the weakest
since Jan. 13. It was little changed at 36.1970 versus the
basket, which  Bank Rossii  uses to minimize swings in the ruble
that hamper exporter competitiveness. The currency has weakened
versus the basket in the last seven trading sessions before
today, the longest run of losses since August 2009, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The basket rate is calculated by multiplying the dollar-
ruble rate by 0.55, the euro-ruble rate by 0.45, then adding
them together. The so-called floating corridor monitored by the
central bank after last week’s expansion is 32.9 to 36.9,
according to UniCredit SpA. Ulyukayev refused to confirm its
parameters.  ‘Sentiment Catches Up’  Russian companies need to pay back more than $12 billion of
foreign currency-denominated loans in December, the most since
at least September, Tchakarov wrote in a research note e-mailed
today. This demand for dollars and euros will subdue the ruble
through to the end of the year, he said.  Merrill is advising clients to start putting so-called long
positions on the ruble, or bets on its appreciation, in the
middle of December as the impact of redemptions subsides and
“as sentiment catches up with equities and investors
internalize the central bank’s new intervention policy,”
Tchakarov said.  The ruble is not in a “weakening” trend,  German Gref ,
chairman of OAO Sberbank, Russia’s largest lender, said today by
video address to a conference in Moscow.  Russia plans to sell holdings in companies it has
controlling stakes in including OAO Rosneft, OAO Aeroflot, VTB
Group and Sberbank, First Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Shuvalov 
said late yesterday. This process will provide “medium-term”
support for the ruble as investment inflows into the country are
bolstered, Royal Bank of Canada analysts led by  Nick Chamie ,
global head of emerging markets, wrote in a research note e-
mailed late yesterday.  NDFs  Options traders have become more bearish on the ruble, with
the currency’s one-week risk reversal rate -- the premium of put
options over calls -- at 1 percent today, from as low as 0.5
percent at the beginning of the week, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Non-deliverable forwards, known as NDFs, which
provide a guide to expectations of currency movements and
interest-rate differentials, show the ruble weakening to 30.9875
per dollar in three months, from yesterday’s 30.8995.  The yield on Russia’s dollar bonds due 2020 snapped five
trading sessions of declines, falling by five basis points to
4.25 percent. Dollar bonds maturing 2015 rose, pushing the yield
down 13 points to 2.99 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma O’Brien  in Moscow at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  