-- S. Korea Government Studying `Several' Measures to Control Capital Flows
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   F r a n c e s   Y o o n
-- 2010-10-21T08:38:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/s-korea-government-studying-several-measures-to-control-capital-flows.html
South Korea’s government is
discussing several measures to control capital flows, Vice
Finance Minister  Yim Jong Yong  said.  “We studied several possible measures such as a Tobin tax,
bank tax, leverage controls and then chose the derivatives
limits in June,”  Yim  told reporters in Gwacheon today. “We’re
now discussing all of these measures, but nothing has been
decided yet.” A Tobin tax is applied to financial transactions.  Nations from Brazil to China are striving to restrain their
currencies by selling them or applying capital controls as
investors seek higher-yielding emerging market assets amid near-
zero U.S. borrowing costs. Capital flooding into Asia may lead
to excessive exchange-rate moves, asset bubbles and financial
instability, International Monetary Fund head  Dominique Strauss- Kahn  said Oct. 18.  “We have to be very careful in approaching this issue as
it can have a huge impact,” Yim said. “We also need to
consider how the market will react.” Levying taxes can be “too
rigid” as it needs parliamentary approval and give the
impression that South Korea is trying to control the currency
market, he said.  The won closed 0.2 percent down at 1,129.60 per dollar in
Seoul today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, and has
risen by 6.6 percent in the past three months. That’s the third-
biggest gain in non-Japan Asia, an advance that may threaten
export competitiveness.  Bank Audit  South Korea began an audit of banks handling foreign-
currency derivatives on Oct. 19 to clamp down on speculation.
Morgan Stanley and DBS Group Holdings Ltd. were among those
scrutinized.  Finance chiefs of emerging economies have blamed monetary
easing by advanced nations for pushing investment into their
markets and stoking currency appreciation. The U.S. and Europe
have been pressuring emerging countries to let their exchange
rates appreciate to rebalance demand in the world economy.  Further measures to counter capital inflows triggered by
“low” interest rates overseas are being prepared, Finance
Minister  Yoon Jeung Hyun  said at a parliamentary audit in Seoul
two days ago. The authorities will act when “herd behavior”
causes sudden moves in the currency, Yoon said.  Brazil this week stepped up efforts to curb gains in the
real by announcing an increase in inflow taxes. Taiwan’s central
bank said in a statement released two days ago that it will step
into the currency market when the local dollar “overshoots.”
Thailand said last week it will remove a 15 percent tax
exemption for foreigners on income from domestic bonds.  G-20 Tension  Currencies and trade flows may dominate the Oct. 22-23
meeting of Group of 20 finance ministers in Gyeongju, South
Korea, and the summit of G-20 leaders in Seoul next month.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  will meet his
counterparts in Gyeongju as tensions heat up over China’s yuan.
Geithner last week delayed a report on foreign-exchange markets,
saying the yuan remained undervalued and that China needed to
show continued commitment to allowing the currency to rise
against the dollar over time.  “In my personal opinion, I think we will reach an
agreement” over currency disputes, Yim said. “China is showing
an effort -- they raised interest rates. It won’t do them both
any good if they fight because that may lead to trade
protectionism.” China increased interest rates on Oct. 19 for
the first time since 2007.  The G-20 finance chiefs are planning to promise to refrain
from “competitive undervaluation” of their currencies,
according to a G-20 official citing the current draft of a
statement, which may still be revised before it’s issued on Oct.
23.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
 Frances Yoon  at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  