-- Saint-Gobain Third-Quarter Sales Rise 7.8%, Led By Asia, Beating Estimates
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2010-10-21T17:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/saint-gobain-third-quarter-sales-rise-7-8-led-by-asia-beating-estimates.html
Cie. de Saint-Gobain SA , Europe’s
biggest supplier of building materials, said third-quarter sales
rose 7.8 percent, helped by higher demand in emerging markets
and an improvement in European construction markets.  Revenue rose to 10.5 billion euros ($14.6 billion) from
9.72 billion euros a year earlier, the Paris-based company said
today in an e-mailed statement. That compares with an  average
estimate  of 10.3 billion euros in a Bloomberg survey of five
analysts. Excluding acquisitions, asset sales, and exchange
rates, revenue rose 2.3 percent, Saint-Gobain said.  Sales in the quarter “continued to be driven by the
emerging countries and Asia  region  and by the Innovative
Materials Sector,” allowing price increases in all the group’s
divisions “over the past few months,” the company said.
European construction “gathered pace,” while North American
construction markets “were hit by repercussions of over-
optimistic expectations from distributors.”  Saint-Gobain  said on Oct. 13 the company may sell a
minority stake of its packaging business in an  initial public
offering  next year. Chief Executive Officer Pierre-Andre de
Chalendar wants the maker of glass, plasterboards and pipes to
focus on housing and construction products, and seeks medium-
sized acquisitions in emerging markets and in the energy-
efficiency and solar-energy industries.  Packaging Revenue  Revenue at the packaging business rose 0.2 percent on a
comparable structure and currency basis to 923 million euros in
the third quarter. Like-for-like sales rose 1.4 percent at the
distribution  unit , while they fell 3.1 percent in the
construction products unit and advanced 13 percent at the glass
and innovative materials unit.  The French supplier of flat glass, packaging and pipes
reiterated its full-year goals of “strong growth” in operating
income at constant exchange rates, with an operating income for
the second-half 2010 “slightly above the first half.” It also
maintained its goal for free  cash flow  of 1.4 billion euros,
while keeping “a robust financial structure.”  Saint-Gobain said it will focus on controlling prices, and
passing on higher costs for raw materials and energy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francois de Beaupuy  in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 