-- Sarkozy Orders Shut Refinery Back to Work as Pension Vote Nears
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2010-10-22T09:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/sarkozy-speeds-vote-on-retirement-age-as-labor-unions-call-another-strike.html
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
ordered striking refinery staff back to work to ease fuel
shortages as the Senate planned to vote on his proposal to raise
the retirement age.  Workers at  Total SA’s  Grandpuits refinery southeast of
Paris, one of the  11 that have been shut in protest strikes,
said they would challenge the order in court as unions called
for a walkout next week, extending protests against his pension
overhaul into an eighth week.  “There is a right to strike but there is no right to
prevent people from working and traveling,” Energy Minister
 Jean-Louis Borloo  said today on BFM television. He said about 20
percent of the country’s service stations were dry.  Senate passage of the bill, likely to come tonight, won’t
quell opposition to the plan to raise the retirement age to 62
from 60 and the age for a full pension to 67 from 65. Violence
has begun to break out at protests this week, with Sarkozy
threatening to crack down on “rioters.”  “We will never accept this law,”  Jean-Claude Mailly ,
secretary general of Force Ouvriere, said today on RMC radio.
“Just because a law has been voted through doesn’t mean we just
say: ‘Oh, too bad.’”  Seeking to mute the disruptions, the government moved to
speed parliamentary passage of the pension bill, invoking a rule
yesterday that allows the Senate to cast a single vote on the
legislation and 200 remaining amendments. Senators will vote on
it tonight, said the chamber’s president,  Gerard Larcher .  At the Grandpuits refinery, a crowd of activists blocked
riot police from entering the plant. All 11 of France’s active
refineries have been on strike for at least a week.  ‘Scandalous’ Order  Unions said they would contest the move in the courts.
“There is a right to strike,”  Charles Foulard , a CGT union
organizer, said on BFM. “This is scandalous, this is not what
you do in a country with human rights.”  Prime Minister  Francois Fillon  called for a meeting of fuel
suppliers and distributors today in Paris, according to an e-
mailed statement from  his office .  Following Senate passage, a joint Senate and National
Assembly committee should meet Oct. 25 to iron out differences
between their versions of the bill, and parliamentary passage
should be completed by the middle of next week, Larcher said.  Unions are divided about whether to continue the protests
after the bill has passed parliament. At a press conference last
night hosted by eight unions, the CFDT and the CFE/CGC said they
will call off protests after parliamentary passage.  Union Doubts  Marcel Grignard, a CFDT negotiator, said last night that
the union won’t take any steps “that put in doubt the
legitimacy of parliament’s right to legislate.”  The overall impact on France’s economy “for the moment is
not significant,”  Laurence Boone , an economist at Barclays
Capital in Paris, said in a note to clients.  A 22-day strike in 1995 cut 0.2 percentage points from
gross domestic product for one quarter. “To date, there have
been only a few days of strikes, and these were not observed 100
percent” thanks to a law that ensures minimum service levels in
key industries and that didn’t exist in 1995, she said.  The  French Chemical Industry Union  said in a statement it
is losing “100 million euros ($140 million) a day” because of
the strikes, without giving details.  Air France has lost 25 million euros in revenue. Thierry
Gregoire, president of hotel federation UMIH, said on BFM that
cancelations are running 50 percent above normal.  Protesters Arrested  Between 4,000 and 17,000 students demonstrated in Paris
yesterday, along with as many as 5,000 in the southwestern city
of Bordeaux and about 1,500 in Montpellier in southern France,
according to police and student union figures. Police arrested
29 youths in Lyon yesterday after riots and also faced
skirmishes in the western city of Poitiers.  “Rioters will not have the last word in a democracy, in a
republic,” Sarkozy said  in comments  in Bonneval, in western
France. Rioters “will be arrested, tracked down and punished,
in Lyon and elsewhere.”  Today is the last day of school before the All Saints mid-
term break. School resumes Nov. 4.  The national railway remains slightly disrupted while the
 Paris metro  and the airports are functioning normally. Eight out
of 10 high-speed trains will run today and six of 10 commuter
and regional trains will operate.  Eurostar  trains to and from
the U.K. will work normally and the Thalys network to Belgium,
the Netherlands and Germany will be “almost” normal, rail
operator  SNCF  said in a statement.  Other European countries, including Germany, Italy and
Britain, have recently raised their retirement ages or extended
the number of years of work needed to qualify for a pension.  Sarkozy’s government says the retirement overhaul is needed
to balance the pension system’s budget by 2018. The changes are
part of its efforts to reduce the overall deficit. This year,
the gap will stand at 7.7 percent of gross domestic product and
Sarkozy plans to cut it to 6 percent next year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gregory Viscusi  in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
 Helene Fouquet  in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  