-- Sarkozy Moves to Speed Senate Vote on Raising Retirement Age Amid Strikes
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2010-10-21T15:46:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/sarkozy-moves-to-speed-senate-vote-on-raising-retirement-age-amid-strikes.html
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
moved to speed passage of his plan to raise the retirement age
as unions threatened to extend their protests.  The government invoked a rule allowing the Senate to cast a
single vote on the bill and 257 remaining amendments, seeking to
win final parliamentary passage next week. Senators may vote
tomorrow, Labor Minister  Eric Woerth  said today.  “You say it’s a coup de force,” Woerth told senators
today after citing  article 44  of the Constitution that allows
the government to call for an emergency vote. “It’s only the
application of the constitution.”  Unions, balking at the government’s refusal to halt the
pension bill, met today and planned to announce actions for next
week. The government had planned to vote on the bill today and
says ”enough debate” has been carried out, Woerth said. He
said the bill could be voted “in the coming hours” or, more
likely, tomorrow, in remarks on  Public Senat television  channel.  Government officials began tallying the cost of transport
disruptions and strikes at oil refineries, saying they’re
hurting French competitiveness. Strikes against the bill, which
would raise the retirement age to 62 from 60, have caused about
half the country’s service stations to run out of gasoline and
prompted the singer  Lady Gaga  to cancel two shows in Paris.  “All this is costing the French economy very dearly at a
time when we’re coming out of the crisis, regaining market
share,”  Christian Estrosi , France’s industry minister, said in
an interview on France Info radio.  Chemical Losses  The French Chemical Industry  Union  said in a statement
today it is losing “100 million euros a day” on the strikes,
without giving further details.  Between 4,000 and 17,000 students demonstrated in Paris
today, and up 5,000 in the coastal city of Bordeaux, according
to police and student unions figures.  The parliamentary rule will cut to about 15 hours the
debate for the remaining about  200 amendments  left to review.
The Senate held 120 hours of debate in the past three weeks to
review the bill.  The government’s decision followed its refusal to bow to
the opposition  Socialist Party ’s demand to suspend debate in the
upper house or to union requests to withdraw the bill. Police
have been deployed to keep fuel supplies flowing.  About 4,000 the 12,000 service stations in France are
experiencing supply shortages, said  Serge Papin , head of the
Super U network of 800 outlets which has placed a 30-euro
($42.12) cap on fuel purchases. The worst shortages are in
western and central France, he told France Inter radio.  On Oct. 19, unions staged the fourth national strike and
the sixth day of protests in two months against the bill, which
also raises the age for a full pension to 67, moving France into
line with other Group of Seven nations.  Other European countries, including Germany, Italy and
Britain, have recently raised their retirement ages or extended
the number of years of work needed to qualify for a pension.  Sarkozy’s government says the retirement overhaul is needed
to balance the pension system’s budget by 2018. The changes are
part of its efforts to reduce the overall deficit. This year,
the gap will stand at 7.7 percent of gross domestic product and
Sarkozy plans to cut it to 6 percent next year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gregory Viscusi  in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
 Helene Fouquet  in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  