-- Sarkozy Moves to Speed Vote on Retirement Age as Unions Call New Strike
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2010-10-21T18:13:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/sarkozy-speeds-vote-on-pensions-as-french-labor-unions-call-another-strike.html
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
moved to speed passage of his plan to raise the retirement age
as unions called for a new strike, extending their protest into
its eighth week.  Labor unions said today that they will strike on Oct. 28,
the fifth day of walkouts since Sept.7, and stage rallies on
Nov. 6. The government, seeking final parliamentary passage of
the pension bill next week, earlier today invoked a rule that
allows the Senate to cast a single vote on the legislation and
about remaining 200 amendments. Senators may vote on it tonight
or tomorrow, Labor Minister  Eric Woerth  said.  “The government bears full responsibility for the
extension of the protest because of its intransigent attitude,”
the CGT, CFDT, UNSA, CFTC and FSU unions said in a joint
 statement . “Labor unions are solemnly asking the government and
lawmakers not to adopt this reform at it is.”  There’s been “enough debate” already, Woerth said today
in remarks on  Public Senat television  channel. In comments to
senators, he cited  article 44  of the Constitution that allows
the government to call for an emergency vote. “It’s only the
application of the constitution,” he said.  The first walkout against the bill, which would raise the
retirement age to 62 from 60 and the age for a full pension to
67 from 65, came on Sept. 7 when the lower chamber of parliament
started its debate. Unions staged their fourth national strike
on Oct. 19 and the sixth day of protests in two months against
the legislation.  Counting the Cost  Government officials began tallying the cost of transport
disruptions and strikes at oil refineries, saying they’re
hurting French competitiveness. Strikes have caused about half
the country’s service stations to run out of gasoline and
prompted the singer  Lady Gaga  to cancel two shows in Paris.  “All this is costing the French economy very dearly at a
time when we’re coming out of the crisis, regaining market
share,” Industry Minister  Christian Estrosi  said in an
interview on France Info radio.  Between 4,000 and 17,000 students demonstrated in Paris
today, as many as 5,000 in the coastal city of Bordeaux, and
about 1,500 in Montpellier, according to police and student
union figures. Police arrested 29 youths in Lyon yesterday after
riots and also faced skirmishes in the western town of Poitiers.  “It’s a scandal. Rioters will not have the last word in a
democracy, in a republic,” Sarkozy said  today in comments  from
Bonneval, in western France. Rioters “will be arrested,
retrieved and punished, in Lyon and elsewhere.”  Debating for Hours  The parliamentary rule will cut to about 15 hours the
debate for the estimated  200 amendments  that remain to be
reviewed. The Senate held 120 hours of debate in the past three
weeks to review the bill.  The government’s decision followed its refusal to bow to
the opposition  Socialist Party ’s demand to suspend debate in the
upper house or to union requests to withdraw the legislation.
Police have been deployed to keep fuel supplies flowing.  About 4,000 the 12,000 service stations in France are
experiencing supply shortages, according to Alexandre de
Benoist, head of the association of independent service
stations. Energy Minister  Jean-Louis Borloo  told the Senate that
2,790 out 12,000 gas stations had shortages, compared with 3,190
yesterday.  Prime Minister  Francois Fillon  called for a meeting of fuel
suppliers and distributors tomorrow in Paris, according to an e-
mailed statement from  his office .  Train Disruptions  The national railway remains slightly disrupted in France,
while the  Paris metro  and the airports are functioning normally.
Eight out of 10 high-speed trains will run tomorrow and six of
10 commuter and regional trains will operate.  Eurostar  trains to
and from the U.K. will work normally and the Thalys system
operations to Belgium, the Netherlands and Germany will be
“almost” normal, national railway  SNCF  said in a statement.  Other European countries, including Germany, Italy and
Britain, have recently raised their retirement ages or extended
the number of years of work needed to qualify for a pension.  Sarkozy’s government says the retirement overhaul is needed
to balance the pension system’s budget by 2018. The changes are
part of its efforts to reduce the overall deficit. This year,
the gap will stand at 7.7 percent of gross domestic product and
Sarkozy plans to cut it to 6 percent next year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gregory Viscusi  in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
 Helene Fouquet  in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  