-- Seadrill Sells Convertible Bonds to Finance Expansion
-- B y   M e e r a   B h a t i a
-- 2010-10-21T16:22:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/seadrill-plans-to-sell-650-million-convertible-bonds-update1-.html
Seadrill Ltd. , the oil rig operator
controlled by billionaire  John Fredriksen , was fully subscribed
in a sale of $650 million in convertible bonds and may seek more
funds for acquisitions as the drilling market strengthens.  The sale includes an increase option of as much as $100
million to the joint bookrunners of the sale, the Bermuda-based
company said today in a statement. The seven-year bond issue was
“fully subscribed,” Chief Financial Officer  Esa Ikaheimonen 
said by phone today.  Seadrill also sold $350 million in bonds last month to fund
growth as  Fredriksen  forecast takeovers in the industry and said
tighter drilling regulations after the Gulf of Mexico oil spill
will boost earnings.  “With $1 billion you don’t acquire too many additional
units,” the CFO said. “It certainly satisfies us in terms of
the more immediate requirements, but going forward we certainly
will be looking for even further growth and therefore financing
of that growth will continue to be a bit of an issue.”  The bonds will be issued on or around Oct. 27 and will have
an annual coupon of 3.375 percent, payable semi-annually and a
conversion premium of 30 percent over the share price at
pricing, the company said. The reference price for the common
shares was set at $29.9363, based on a volume weighted average
price of 173.96 kroner between launch and pricing.  Jack-Up Rigs  Seadrill  will use the proceeds for investments and may buy
back part of its existing convertible bonds, the company said.
It earlier this month entered into an agreement for the
construction of two jack-up drilling rigs with Jurong Shipyard
in Singapore, including options for four more of the vessels.
Jack-up rigs are drilling facilities with extendable legs.  “We like to operate a modern fleet and hence certainly
ordering new rigs directly from the yards is an alternative
going forward, in the jack-up market as well as in the deepwater
market,” the CFO said. “There are also other opportunities for
single assets or multiple asset acquisitions.”  Seadrill  dropped  2.8 kroner, or 1.6 percent, to close at
175.9 kroner in Oslo. The stock has gained 19 percent this year,
adding to last year’s 169 percent gain.  ABG Sundal Collier Holding ASA, Credit Suisse Group AG and
Deutsche Bank AG are joint bookrunners, while DnB NOR Markets,
Nordea Markets and SEB Enskilda are acting as co-managers.  The U.S. halted deepwater drilling for six months after an
April 20 explosion on a BP Plc-operated Transocean Ltd. rig in
the Gulf of Mexico killed 11 workers and started the country’s
worst oil spill. Shares in  Transocean , the largest offshore oil
driller, have slumped 28 percent since the disaster.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Meera Bhatia  in Oslo at 
 mbhatia2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  