-- U.K. Retail Sales Unexpectedly Drop for Second Month
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2010-10-21T10:36:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/september-retail-sales-unexpectedly-drop-for-second-month-on-budget-fears.html
U.K.  retail sales  unexpectedly
dropped in September for a second month and mortgage approvals
fell to the lowest in 1 1/2 years as consumers braced for the
deepest budget squeeze since World War II.  Sales fell 0.2 percent from August, when they declined 0.7
percent, the Office for National Statistics said today in
London. Economists predicted a 0.3 percent gain, according to
the median of 25 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey. Mortgages
approved by the six biggest banks dropped to 44,000 from 45,000
in August, the Bank of England said in a separate report.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said today that
the Bank of England can use monetary policy to aid the economy
as his clampdown on public spending eliminates half a million
jobs. Policy makers split three ways this month as they argued
whether to add stimulus to shore up the recovery.  “There’s a lot of pressure on the consumer from high
inflation, tax rises, and the forecast fall in public-sector
jobs,”  David Tinsley , an economist at National Australia Bank
in London and a former Bank of England official, said in an
interview. “Earnings growth will be low and the labor-market
recovery will still be in its infancy. That’s not a background
for consumers to be going out and spending lots of money.”  The pound fell to the lowest in more than six months
against the euro, trading at 88.89 pence per euro as of 11:35
a.m. in London. The yield on the benchmark U.K. government two-
year bond was down 1 basis point today at 0.588 percent.  On the year, sales rose 0.5 percent, the least since
January. The decline on the month was led by gasoline, clothing,
and Internet and mail-order companies, the statistics office
said. Consumer spending on gasoline has picked up less than
retailers expected this year amid an increase in the price of
oil, officials said.  Homebase, Argos  Excluding fuel, sales were unchanged on the month. Declines
in other categories offset gains of 0.1 percent in sales at both
food stores and non-food retailers, the statistics office said.  Home Retail Group Plc, the U.K. owner of the Homebase home-
improvement chain and Argos catalog stores, said yesterday that
first-half pretax profit declined 23 percent as cash-strapped
consumers spent less on furniture and video games at Argos and
it offered discounts to drive revenue.  Recent data indicate the pace of U.K. economic growth
slowed in the third quarter. British unemployment claims climbed
for a second month in September, and Nationwide Building Society
says that consumer confidence plummeted to an 18-month low. The
Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors said Oct. 12 that its
U.K. housing-market gauge fell to a 16-month low last month.  Mortgage ‘Uncertainty’  Mortgage approvals fell to their lowest level in 17 months
in September as “uncertainty” about the impact of the budget
squeeze deterred potential homebuyers, the Bank of England said,
using its data from the six biggest U.K. banks.  Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  earlier this week
signaled he may be open to stepping up asset purchases to
prevent deflationary pressures from emerging in the economy.
Some gauges of U.K. inflation are “extremely subdued” and
monetary policy remains a “potent weapon,” he said on Oct. 19.  Still, seven of the bank’s nine policy makers voted for no
change to the benchmark interest rate and emergency bond-
purchase plan on Oct. 7, according to minutes of their meeting
released yesterday.  Adam Posen  demanded more bond purchases and
 Andrew Sentance  opted for an interest-rate increase.  The central bank must be “ready to move in either
direction,” Chief Economist  Spencer Dale , said in an interview
published in the Birmingham Post and Mail newspaper today. While
his policy colleague  David Miles  said he’s “guardedly
optimistic” about the economic outlook, the Sentinel newspaper
reported today, the Midlands Business Insider said Posen
described the recovery as “patchy.”  Inflation  in Britain held at 3.1 percent in September,
exceeding the government’s 3 percent limit for a seventh month.
The retail deflator showed a 2.1 percent annual price increase,
the most in four months, the statistics office said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  