-- Haze Blanketing Singapore Prompts Complaint at Indonesia Fires
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2010-10-21T13:55:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/singapore-government-urges-indonesia-to-deal-with-haze-from-forest-fires.html
Singapore is seeking talks with
Indonesia to discuss the recurring problem of forest fires on
the island of Sumatra that has covered Singapore and western
Malaysia with smoke haze.  Singapore’s Minister for Foreign Affairs  George Yeo  is
asking to speak to the Indonesian Foreign Minister  Marty Natalegawa  tomorrow, the government said in a statement today.
 Yaacob Ibrahim , Singapore’s Environment and Water Resources
Minister, has also contacted his Indonesian counterpart to
“register our concerns,” according to the e-mailed statement.  “This is not the first time that we have informed the
Indonesians that they should pay attention to the hotspots both
in Sumatra and Borneo,” Ibrahim said yesterday. “We are a bit
disappointed that this is happening.”  Smoke from forest fires mainly in Indonesia clouds parts of
Southeast Asia every year as farmers on the islands of Borneo
and Sumatra clear land by burning trees and bushes. Pollution
levels reached hazardous levels in Malaysia yesterday. In 1997
and 1998, smoke haze caused economic losses of almost $9 billion
as tourism fell and health-care costs rose.  Singapore’s environment minister said yesterday should the
situation worsen, officials from the  Association of Southeast
Asian Nations  may hold a meeting to discuss what steps to take.
“We cannot take this matter lightly,” Ibrahim told reporters,
according to a transcript of his remarks released by his
ministry.  Health Warning  An Asean  website  that monitors the fires shows that
southwesterly to westerly winds are carrying the smoke haze to
West Malaysia and Singapore.  “Persons with existing heart or respiratory ailments should
reduce physical exertion and outdoor activity,” the National
Environment Agency of Singapore said on its website.  The so-called 24-hour  Pollutant Standards Index  reading
reached 80 yesterday, compared with as low as 23 at the
beginning of the month. The three-hour reading as of 8 a.m.
today was 72. A PSI reading of less than 50 is considered “good,”
51 to 100 is “moderate” and higher than 101 is “unhealthy,”
according to the agency. A reading of more than 300 is
“hazardous.”  ‘Hazardous’ Level  Schools in the Muar area of Malaysia’s southern Johor state
were advised to temporarily close because the haze reached a
“hazardous” level, Bernama reported today, citing Deputy Prime
Minister  Muhyiddin Yassin .  The Air Pollutant Index reached 400 yesterday which is
considered “dangerous,” the report said, citing Muhyiddin, who
is also education minister.  Muhyiddin yesterday chaired a meeting of the National
Security Council on the haze situation in Muar, it said. A haze-
monitoring operations room was opened in the district, according
to the national news service.  “On many occasions we have told the Indonesians to take
extra measures to ensure that this does not recur,” Yaacob said.
“If things worsen, we will probably register our concern again,
perhaps on even stronger terms to our Indonesian colleagues.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  