-- Slim Leads Record M&A Fueling Most Bond Sales in Six Months: Brazil Credit
-- B y   T a t i a n a   B a u t z e r
-- 2010-10-21T22:42:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/slim-leads-record-m-a-fueling-most-bond-sales-in-six-months-brazil-credit.html
Brazilian companies are selling the
most local bonds since April as they finance record acquisitions
and investment to tap into the fastest expansion in two decades.  Bond offerings climbed to 5.25 billion reais ($3.1 billion)
in the first two weeks of October from 1.58 billion reais in all
of September, according to the capital markets association known
as  Anbima .  Embratel Participacoes SA , a unit of billionaire
 Carlos Slim ’s  America Movil  SAB, accounted for 60 percent of the
sales by issuing 3.15 billion reais, the most by a non-financial
company since 2006, to pay for a stake increase in cable-TV
operator  Net Servicos  de Comunicacao SA.  Companies are turning to the local debt market to finance
growth as analysts predict Latin America’s biggest economy will
expand 7.1 percent this year, the most since 1986. The value of
deals where Brazilian firms were targets has climbed to $84
billion this year, more than for any full year since at least
1998, from $61 billion for all of 2009, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That compares with $32 billion in takeovers of
Russian companies, $34 billion in India and $87 billion in China
this year, according to the data.  “The local market is gaining depth,”  Ricardo Kovacs , a
senior analyst at Moody’s Investors Service in Sao Paulo, said
in a phone interview. “These issues show the evolution of
Brazilian capital markets. Even with shorter terms than
international bonds, they are a good alternative for companies
with revenue exclusively in local currency.”  Overnight Rate  Embratel, based in Rio de Janeiro, sold three-year bonds
linked to the country’s overnight interbank rate on Oct. 8. With
that rate trading at 10.64 percent yesterday, the bonds yield
about 11 percent. By comparison, government floating-rate bonds
due in 2013 pay yields in line with the overnight rate while its
fixed-rate securities yield 11.82 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Central bankers left their overnight rate target at 10.75
percent at a policy meeting yesterday after raising it 200 basis
points, or 2 percentage points, from a record low earlier in the
year to prevent the expansion from sparking a surge in
inflation. Brazil’s benchmark target compares with rates of no
more than 1 percent in the U.S., Europe and Japan.  Brazil will likely sell more bonds denominated in reais
overseas this year as part of its efforts to stem gains in the
currency, Treasury Secretary  Arno Augustin  said.  Augustin, in an interview in Brasilia, said the foreign
bond sales in local currency could help slow capital inflows
from foreigners who currently enter the domestic market to buy
assets in reais.  Yields Rise  Yields on Brazil’s interbank rate futures contract due in
January 2012 rose seven basis points to 11.34 percent today.  The real weakened 1.1 percent today to 1.6968 per dollar.
It’s gained 2.8 percent this year and 36 percent since the end
of 2008, prompting the government to raise a tax on foreigners’
fixed-income purchases this week to 6 percent to stem the rally.  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell two basis points to 184
basis points today, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+
index.  Local Brazilian bond sales have totaled 35.7 billion reais
this year, an 86 percent increase from the amount issued through
the first 10 months of last year, according to Anbima. Companies
are awaiting approval for another 3.1 billion reais in
offerings.  ‘Fast Rule’  Companies are also boosting international issues, having
sold a record $30.9 billion in the first nine months of the
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  All the local offerings this month were done through a
regulation requiring the debt be sold exclusively to
institutional investors in a process similar to private
placement in the U.S. The rule, implemented by Brazilian
securities regulators in January 2009, allows companies to sell
bonds faster than through a traditional debt offering. The deals
can only include 20 buyers.  “We are seeing a credit boom using debentures under the
fast rule,” Gustavo Dezouzart, partner at Oliveira Trust,
trustee for 6.5 billion reais of issues this year, said in a
phone interview from Rio de Janeiro.  The average maturity on debt issued in Brazil has climbed
to 5 years from 3.8 years in 2009. The last issue this month, by
Votorantim Cimentos, the cement unit of Brazil’s Grupo
Votorantim, was 1 billion reais of 10-year bonds. The
lengthening of maturities is allowing infrastructure companies,
utilities and homebuilders to finance their longer-term
investments,  Rubens Cardoso , capital markets director at state-
controlled Banco do Brasil SA, said in a phone interview from
Sao Paulo.  Amil Offering  “We are seeing record levels of issuance to support
growing investment,” Cardoso said.  Amil Participacoes SA , a health insurance provider, has set
price ranges for 900 million reais in floating-rate bonds with
three-, four- and five-year maturities that will be used to
repay one-year bridge loans taken to acquire Medial Saude SA
last year. On the three-year bonds, the company will pay up to
the overnight rate plus 140 basis points, according to a person
familiar with the transaction.  “Acquisition and project financing have become more usual
in the local market,” said  Marcio Pepino , head of capital
markets at Banco Espirito Santo SA.  Smaller, private companies that before only had access to
bank credit lines can now raise capital through private debt
offerings, according to Dezouzart. The securities can be issued
in the time it takes to secure a loan,  Alberto Kiraly , vice-
president of Anbima in Sao Paulo, said in an Oct. 1 interview.
They are attractive to banks because they can sell the notes
more easily than loans should they want to unload them, he said.  “Today banks are the main buyers,” Kiraly said. “But as
we see higher volumes being financed, the trend is to broaden
the investor base.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tatiana Bautzer  in Sao Paulo at 
 tbautzer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  