-- South Africa Bonds Slump After Marcus Says Interest Rates at `Low Point'
-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 2010-10-21T08:43:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/south-african-bonds-slump-after-governor-marcus-says-rates-at-low-point-.html
South African bonds fell for a third
day, pushing yields to the highest since Oct. 12, after the
Financial Mail quoted Central Bank Governor  Gill Marcus  as
saying a “low point” in interest rates may have been reached.  The benchmark 13.5 percent government security due
September 2015 fell 16 cents to 125.52 rand by 10:25 a.m. in
Johannesburg, raising the yield by three basis points to 7.21
percent.  “There’s been an initial knee-jerk reaction, knocking the
market weaker,” Mark le Roux, head of fixed interest at
Coronation Fund Managers in Cape Town, said by telephone.  South Africa’s monetary policy makers have lowered their
benchmark interest rate eight times since December 2008 to a
 record low 6 percent  in an attempt to stimulate the economy.
Near-zero interest rates in developed nations have encouraged
inflows into higher-yielding emerging markets, boosting their
currencies and undermining export competitiveness.  “We think this is a low point in interest rates -- unless
something happens,” the Johannesburg-based weekly magazine
quoted Marcus as saying. Policy makers are not “soft on
inflation” and investors should “not necessarily” expect an
interest-rate reduction when the monetary policy committee
announces its next rate decision on Nov. 18, Marcus said in the
interview.  Policy makers “should be focused on the data” and may
change their minds “if the data changes,” Marcus said.  The rand has surged almost 36 percent against the dollar
since the start of 2009, reducing the cost of fuel and other
imports and helping to keep inflation within the 3 percent to 6
percent target range since February. The gains have prompted
trade unions and manufacturers to argue for more aggressive
interest-rate reductions to weaken the currency, which they say
is undermining economic growth and worsening unemployment.  Dollar Strength  The solution to the rand’s strength “isn’t necessarily
that you intervene in your currency” as it requires a
“combination of actions,” Marcus was cited as saying in the
Financial Mail.  “What we are seeing is U.S. dollar weakness rather than
rand gains, and to think that the mighty Reserve Bank can
somehow stabilize the U.S. dollar is ridiculous,” said Marcus.  The rand traded little changed at 6.9208 per dollar, from a
previous close of 6.9191. Against the euro, the rand lost 0.5
percent to 9.7084.  FRAs, or forward-rates agreements, showed money-market
investors reduced bets the  Reserve Bank  will lower its benchmark
rate when it announces its next decision next month. The cost of
 three-month contracts for cash in three months  rose 6.5 basis
points to 5.785 percent. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  