-- South African Treasury Will Raise Economic Growth Forecast, Minister Says
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2010-10-21T12:17:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/south-african-growth-may-be-moderately-higher-minister-gordhan-says.html
South Africa’s National Treasury
will raise its economic growth forecast for this year when it
releases the mid-term budget on Oct. 27, Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said.  “The economy performed slightly better than our
projections in the first two quarters,” Gordhan said in a
written reply to a question from a lawmaker in Cape Town today.
“The actual growth outcome for 2010 may be moderately higher
than our budget forecast.”  In the budget released in February, the Treasury forecast
growth of 2.3 percent this year, 3.2 percent in 2011 and 3.6
percent the following year. Africa’s largest  economy  slid into
recession in the final quarter of 2008 and returned to growth in
the third quarter of last year as commodity prices rose and
demand for exports recovered.  South Africa should aspire to 7 percent growth, though this
probably won’t be achieved over the “medium term,” Gordhan
said.  Studies by the Treasury show that 7 percent growth over 10
years will double national income and create about 5.5 million
 jobs . South Africa’s jobless rate rose to 25.3 percent in the
second quarter, the highest of 62 countries tracked by
Bloomberg.  Impact of Strike  A 20-day strike by civil servants that ended on Sept. 6 is
unlikely to have a “material effect” on this year’s growth
outlook, Gordhan said.  The government agreed on Aug. 31 to increase wages by 7.5
percent and raise monthly housing allowances to 800 rand ($116)
from 500 rand, to end the strike, which shut thousand of schools
and interrupted services at hospitals and courts. South Africa’s
 inflation  rate is currently 3.5 percent.  While the strike will have only a “modest” effect on
spending, “the longer-term impact of the higher wage settlement
on the fiscus will be much more serious as interest costs rise
in response to higher government borrowing and the wage bill
crowds out investment spending,” Gordhan said. “If large real
wage settlements for public servants are not matched with higher
productivity, the outcome of the strike could also fuel
inflationary pressures.”  The government sees no need for further stimulus measures
to revive the economy and that record-low interest rates will
aid its recovery, Gordhan said in reply to another parliamentary
question.  “The pace of global growth has improved markedly this year
supported by stimulatory fiscal and monetary policies adopted by
most countries in 2009,” he said. “While the probability of a
double-dip has increased recently, we have not factored this
into our base-case scenarios for the global or domestic
economies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 