-- Standard Bank to Cut 2,100 Jobs in London and South Africa to Reduce Costs
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2010-10-21T16:54:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/standard-bank-may-cut-1-200-permanent-jobs-in-south-africa-maree-says.html
Standard Bank Group Ltd ., Africa’s
largest bank, said it will cut as many as 2,100 jobs in London
and Johannesburg in an effort to reduce expenses.  About 1,200 permanent roles in South Africa are likely to
be made redundant, Group Chief Executive Officer  Jacko Maree 
said in an e-mailed statement. About 30 percent are general
staff and the rest are managerial and executive roles. Also,
about 600 contractors’ positions will be terminated, while in
London, the bank proposes that 300 roles be made redundant,
including those of both permanent and non-permanent employees.  “Regrettably, there will be limited redeployment
opportunities for retrenched employees,” Maree and  Sim Tshabalala , the head of the Johannesburg-based bank’s South
African unit, said in the statement today.  Standard Bank’s cost-to-income  ratio  of 58.1 percent at the
end of the first half compares with South African rivals Absa
Group Ltd.’s 54 percent,  Nedbank Group Ltd.’s  55 percent and
FirstRand Ltd.’s 57 percent for the full year through June.
Standard Bank’s staff costs increased 6 percent to 9.5 billion
rand ($1.37 billion), accounting for more than half of operating
expenses, in the first six months of the year.  Standard Bank wants to focus on emerging nations after
expanding in Russia, Argentina, Nigeria and other African
markets faster than local competitors. The company’s share price
is the worst-performing of the five-member  FTSE/JSE Africa Banks
Index  this year, rising 5.1 percent compared with an average
increase of 9.4 percent.  The company consulted with Sasbo, the South African union
representing workers in the finance industry, and has formed
“an appropriate collective consultation forum” in London,
according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Renee Bonorchis  in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  