-- U.S. Asks Federal Appeals Court to Delay `Don't Ask, Don't Tell' Decision
-- B y   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n
-- 2010-10-21T14:49:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/swift-boat-donor-perry-helps-fund-rove-s-political-group-with-7-million.html
Texas home builder  Bob Perry  donated
$7 million to  American Crossroads , helping the political group
advised by Republican strategist  Karl Rove  raise almost $15
million in about six weeks.  Perry was a  top donor  in 2004 to the Swift Boat Veterans
for Truth, which ran ads against Democratic presidential nominee
 John Kerry . Perry made a series of donations to American
Crossroads between Sept. 1 and Oct. 13, according to reports the
group filed yesterday with the  Federal Election Commission .  American Crossroads and its sister group, Crossroads GPS,
have raised at least $56 million to spend on the Nov. 2
congressional elections. They are part of a wave of Republican-
leaning organizations that are making up for a fundraising
advantage held by Democratic Party committees.  “The power of individual wealthy Americans is rising to
levels not seen since the ‘robber baron’ days,” said  Steffen Schmidt , a political science professor at Iowa State University
in Ames. “Bob Perry’s case is just the tip of the iceberg.”  Rove, who was a chief strategist to former President  George W. Bush , and Perry, a longtime donor in Texas, have known each
other for decades. “The donations speak for themselves,” said
 Anthony Holm , a spokesman for Perry.  Super PACs  American Crossroads is part of a new set of organizations
dubbed super PACS by election lawyers. They can take unlimited
amounts from contributors and are required to disclose those
donors and detail their spending to the FEC on a regular basis.  Crossroads GPS is set up as a nonprofit issue-advocacy
group and doesn’t have to disclose its donors. That has drawn
protests from President  Barack Obama  and fellow Democrats, who
say Americans deserve to know who is paying for the ads running
across the country.  Both Crossroads groups saw a surge in fundraising after a
round of public attacks by Obama and White House aides  David Axelrod  and  Robert Gibbs , spokesman  Jonathan Collegio  said last
week. They now plan to raise $65 million together.  “We took in a donation from a pilot, he wrote a check for
$500 to  Crossroads GPS ,” Collegio said. “It says, please thank
the following people for bringing your organization to my
attention: Barack Obama, David Axelrod, Robert Gibbs. The End.
So we have a lot of donations like these.”  Texas Money  Rove has been raising money for the groups, and much of it
has flowed from Texas, where Rove rose to prominence as a
political strategist.  Robert Rowling , chief executive officer of
TRT Holdings Inc., in Irving, Texas, has now given $2.5 million,
according to the latest report. The company itself is listed as
contributing about $2.3 million.  Among smaller donations, the group reported a $50,000
contribution from real estate developer  Donald Trump .  Another Republican-leaning super PAC, Club for Growth
Action, reported raising $1.7 million in September from donors
including executives in the financial and energy industries.
 John Childs , head of the closely held Boston private equity firm
J.W. Childs Associates, gave $500,000.  The First Amendment Alliance, which has run ads against
Democrats including Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of Nevada
and Colorado Senator  Michael Bennet , brought in $1.1 million
from Aug. 31 to Sept. 30. In addition to contributions from
energy and financial executives, the First Amendment Alliance
also reported a $50,000 contribution from Perry.  Spreading Money  In some cases, the groups are spreading money among
themselves. The New Prosperity Foundation, which has spent money
to help  Mark Kirk , the Republican Senate candidate in Illinois,
reported a $250,000 donation from American Crossroads.  The Emily’s List offshoot  Women Vote!  listed an $80,000
contribution from America’s Families First, which in turn got
$500,000 from the International Association of Firefighters.
Emily’s List works to elect Democratic women who favor abortion
rights; America’s Families First is running ads and sending mail
in congressional districts supporting Democratic candidates.  Women Vote! also got $250,000 from  Donald Sussman , founder
of the Greenwich, Connecticut-based hedge fund Paloma Partners.
“When women participate in the political process, we all
benefit from the values, perspective, and work ethic they bring
to the table,” Sussman said in an e-mailed statement.  Republican-leaning outside groups spent more than three
times as much as pro-Democratic groups on the elections between
Sept. 1 and Oct. 17, according to FEC filings. That’s helped
Republican candidates who aren’t getting as much aid from the
national party as in past cycles.  Party Money  The Republican National Committee yesterday reported that
it had $3.4 million in cash at the end of September after
raising almost $10 million and taking a $2.5 million loan. The
Democratic National Committee had more than $13 million in the
bank after bringing in almost $19 million during the month.  Spending on political ads has risen across the country,
according to the  Wesleyan Media Project , operated from Wesleyan
University in Middletown, Connecticut. The group said
candidates, parties and interest groups spent about $198 million
on ads for House and Senate races between Sept. 1 and Oct. 7, an
increase of 75 percent from 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kristin Jensen  in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  