-- U.K. Mortgage Approvals Declined to 17-Month Low in September
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2010-10-21T08:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/u-k-mortgage-approvals-fell-to-17-month-low-in-september-amid-budget-cuts.html
U.K. mortgage approvals fell to the
lowest in 17 months in September as “uncertainty” about the
impact of the government’s budget squeeze deterred potential
homebuyers.  The number of home loans fell to 44,000 from 45,000 in
August, the Bank of England said today in London, based on data
from six banks. The value of loans fell to 5.6 billion pounds
($8.8 billion), the lowest since April, from 5.9 billion pounds.  Britain’s housing market recovery is showing signs of
faltering as the government implements spending cuts to reduce
the budget deficit. The fiscal plan will lead to half a million
public job losses and cut spending on welfare, housing
assistance and disability payments. Central bank Governor Mervyn
King said on Oct. 19 that Britons should expect “some
volatility” in the economy.  “Most major U.K. lenders indicated that mortgage approval
numbers had been lower than expected,” the central bank said in
a statement. There was a “weakening in confidence among
potential homebuyers against the backdrop of some weakening in
the outlook for house prices and uncertainty about the effects
of government spending cuts.”  U.K. house prices plunged in September by the most since at
least 1983, falling 3.6 percent from August, Lloyds Banking
Group Plc’s Halifax division said Oct. 7. Still, property
website Rightmove Plc said Oct. 18 that asking prices in England
and Wales rose 5 percent in October from September, the most in
six months, as home sellers brushed off the fiscal squeeze.  Central Bank Split  The Bank of England held its benchmark interest rate at a
record low of 0.5 percent this month and its bond-purchase
program at 200 billion pounds as policy makers assessed signs
the economic recovery is slowing.  Minutes of the decision published yesterday showed the
first three-way split  in almost a year, with Adam Posen voting
to boost the bond plan by 50 billion pounds and Andrew Sentance
pushing for a quarter-point increase in the key rate.  The minutes also said some policy makers “felt the
likelihood that further monetary stimulus would become necessary
in order to meet the inflation target in the medium term had
increased in recent months.”  King said in a speech two days ago in Dudley, England that
“as demand rebalances, we should expect some volatility in
inflation as well as in the path of output.”  The mortgage-approvals data published today is based on
reports from Banco Santander SA, Barclays Plc, HSBC Holdings
Plc, Lloyds, Nationwide Building Society and Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  