-- U.K. ‘Stealth’ Carbon Tax May Add 10% to Company Energy Bills
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2010-10-21T12:07:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/u-k-stealth-carbon-tax-may-add-10-to-company-energy-bills.html
The U.K. Treasury’s decision to keep
about 3.5 billion pounds ($5.5 billion) from a carbon-cutting
program for large electricity users may add 10 percent to energy
bills for universities, hospitals and shops.  The change, announced by the Treasury yesterday after
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne ’s spending review,
will add about a tenth more to the bills of the program’s
participants, said Ben Wielgus, lead adviser on the program for
the accounting firm KPMG.  “It’s a double whammy for the public sector because
they’re all facing spending cuts and they’re being taxed as well
for their energy use,” Wielgus said today in a telephone
interview. KPMG and its clients will be affected by the changes,
he said. “Organizations in the scheme are now paying
significantly more for energy.”  U.K. Energy Minister  Charles Hendry  said in a phone
interview today that the shift is designed to make the program
“simpler” to understand. The British Retail Consortium, an
industry lobby group, called it a “stealth” tax on companies
including its members, the supermarket chains  Tesco Plc , J
Sainsbury Plc and Wal-Mart Stores Inc.’s Asda unit.  “It affects almost all of the retailers with an annual
turnover over 60 million pounds,”  Richard Dodd , head of
campaigns for the lobby group, said today by telephone. It will
cost one “major” national retailer 10 million pounds a year,
he said, declining to name the company.  Deadline to Enroll  Companies had until Sept. 30 to register for the program or
face fines. Under the original plan, they would have had to pay
for emissions allowances starting in 2011. The government
yesterday postponed that by a year and scrapped league tables
that would have redistributed the revenue back to participants
based on their emissions-reduction performance.  “This is a measure for simplifying the process,” Hendry
said today. “Much of the feedback we’ve had from business about
the CRC has been about the complexity of it. The changes that
we’ve made now give a clearer, stronger price signal for
participants, which will certainly incenitivize the take-up of
energy saving measures.”  The plan covers about 10 percent of U.K. emissions, taking
in companies and organizations not included in the European
Union Emissions Trading System. The government’s climate
adviser, the Climate Change Committee, last month recommended
the program be simplified with participants split into public
and private sector to prevent a redistribution of revenue from
schools and hospitals to corporations.  Cost of Permits  The allowances will cost 12 pounds per ton of carbon
dioxide to start, and the Treasury said it assumed the cost will
rise to 16 pounds a ton starting in the tax year ending in 2014.  Under the original plan, companies and groups that improved
energy efficiency the most would have received back a bonus of
as much as 10 percent above what they paid into the program,
paid for by the worst performers, according to Wielgus.  “Organizations like universities who thought they’d do
well and had invested to do so now face a 10 percent charge so
instead of making a profit, they’re making a loss,” Wielgus
said. “Under the old plan, even if you were a hospital at the
bottom of the league table you’d have had to pay about 1 percent
of your energy bills extra. Now it’s nearer 10 percent.”  Asked if the charge will remain in place for universities
and hospitals included in the program, Hendry said, “There’s a
consultation process which we’ll be starting shortly that will
look at the detail of how this goes forward.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Morales  in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net 
 Catherine Airlie  at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net 
Stephen Voss on 
 sev@bloomberg.net  