-- Hostile Deals Face Tougher Rules From U.K. Regulator
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2010-10-21T18:03:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/u-k-takeover-panel-seeks-additional-disclosures-of-advisers-merger-fees.html
The U.K. merger regulator proposed
changes to rules that would reduce the “tactical advantage” of
hostile bidders for U.K. companies after Kraft Foods Inc.’s
acquisition of Cadbury Plc provoked an outcry from politicians.  Potential buyers would have to make a firm offer within
four weeks of announcing an approach and disclose information on
financing, under rules proposed by the U.K. Takeover Panel
today. The panel also called for additional disclosure of
financial and legal advisers’ fees related to mergers.  The panel started a review of the nation’s takeover law
earlier this year after criticism of  Kraft Foods ’s acquisition
of  Cadbury . The changes are “tougher” than most were
expecting, said James Palmer, a lawyer at  Herbert Smith LLP .  The changes “will make bidders much more nervous about
leaking the deal,” Palmer said. “That’s going to make life
harder for very leveraged or hostile bidders. It is a very
significant step, and I don’t think the market was expecting
it.”  The panel’s proposal would curb so-called virtual offers,
creating a four-week limit on the period in which an acquiring
company must announce its firm intention on whether it will make
an offer once the approach becomes public.  ‘Needed Tool’  “The good news is that dealmakers should adapt easily to
these changes and bidders will not be deterred,” said  Richard Cranfield , chairman of the corporate practice at Allen & Overy
in London. “The four-week ‘put up or shut up’ period should
enhance measures to keep a deal confidential as long as
possible, a much needed tool.”  The panel rejected the “most controversial proposals,” to
limit the speed at which investors could increase their
shareholding and voting rights of a company, and raising the
minimum acceptance approval for takeovers from “50 percent plus
one,” Palmer said.  The London-based body also proposed banning measures that
reduced the likelihood of a successful counter-bid, such as so-
called inducement fees. The fees, meant to encourage a bidder to
complete a takeover, are paid by a target company to the bidder
if the deal isn’t completed.  “The general prohibition on the entry into inducement
fees, and other deal protection measures, is something of a
surprise and will be a very noticeable change,” said Stephen
Nash, a deal lawyer at Eversheds LLP.  Fee Disclosure  Companies should also disclose “the estimated fees of the
advisers to each of the parties to an offer,” the Takeover
Panel said. The disclosures extend to investment bankers,
accountants, lawyers and public-relations consultants.  The U.K. government in July said it would review whether an
increase in merger fees and a requirement for pre-notification
of some takeovers might help avoid “hasty deal-making” that
doesn’t benefit the U.K. economy. The Department for Business,
Innovation and Skills said it was “deeply concerned” that
institutional investors seeking short-term gain swayed the
outcome of Kraft’s takeover of Cadbury.  The panel also proposed changing the law to require more
disclosure of the acquiring company’s intentions regarding a
targeted company and to “improve the ability of employee
representatives to make their views known.”  The Takeover Panel criticized Kraft in May for reversing a
pledge to keep open a Cadbury plant in Somerdale, England, when
it decided to move the factory to Poland.  Kraft  agreed in
January to buy the maker of Creme Eggs and Dairy Milk chocolate
for about 11.7 billion pounds ($18.4 billion) in a deal that
created the world’s largest confectioner.  Former Business Secretary  Peter Mandelson , in January
testimony to lawmakers, rejected suggestions that the government
should have more power to block takeover bids. The business
secretary had faced calls from Labour Party members of
parliament to find a way to block the sale of the British
chocolate maker.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Lindsay Fortado  in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 