-- House's Markey Asks Locke, Chu, Gates to Probe China's Rare Earth Policies
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2010-10-21T21:39:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/u-s-congressman-markey-asks-locke-chu-gates-to-probe-china-rare-earth.html
U.S. Representative  Edward Markey 
asked the Obama administration to report on China’s curbs on the
export of rare-earth elements and ramifications for the military
and U.S. clean-energy producers.  Markey, the chairman of the House Select Committee on
Energy Independence and Global Warming, said in a letter today
to four Cabinet members that he is concerned by reports China is
imposing additional restrictions on rare-earth materials.  “I am troubled by this recent turn of events,” said
Markey, a Massachusetts Democrat. Dependence on China for rare
earths and that country’s “willingness to use this reliance for
leverage in wider international affairs poses a potential threat
to American economic and national security interests,” he said.  The letter was sent to Energy Secretary  Steven Chu , Defense
Secretary  Robert Gates , Commerce Secretary  Gary Locke  and U.S.
Trade Representative  Ron Kirk . The Defense Department is
preparing a report on the military risks from limits on rare-
earth exports.  Quotas imposed by China, which produces more than 90
percent of the world’s rare earths, have been faulted by U.S.
lawmakers and officials in Japan and Germany. China in July
reduced by 72 percent its second-half export quota for the
minerals, 17 chemically similar metal elements, such as
lanthanum and neodymium, used in making powerful magnets and
radar equipment. It is now further restricting exports,
according to industry participants.  China started to rein in mining of rare earths in May 2009,
setting production quotas to help bolster prices. The caps and
subsequent export restrictions accomplished that goal.  Prices Soar  Prices for cerium oxide, used for polishing semiconductors
needed to make electronic devices operate, soared sevenfold in
the past six months and other elements have more than doubled,
according to Metal-Pages Ltd. in London, which tracks prices.  Markey asked Chu which of the 17 elements are being
restricted by China and “to what extent is the U.S. clean-
energy sector reliant” on those imports. He also asked Gates
what impact those curbs on trade would have on defense
application.  President  Barack Obama ’s spokesman said yesterday the
National Security Council staff is looking into reports that
China is blocking shipments. “They’ve seen the reports,” press
secretary  Robert Gibbs  told reporters traveling with Obama on a
West Coast campaign trip. “They’re looking into them but don’t
have anything they could confirm about those reports.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Drajem  in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 