-- U.S. to Pay Farmers for Non-Food Crops for Biofuels, Vilsack Says
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n   a n d   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2010-10-21T14:59:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/u-s-to-pay-farmers-for-non-food-crops-for-biofuels-vilsack-says.html
The U.S. will pay farmers to produce
non-food crops that can be converted to fuels for planes, cars
and power plants to reduce reliance on imported oil and boost
rural economies, Agriculture Secretary  Tom Vilsack  said today.  The Agriculture Department will resume payments to farmers
under the 2008 Biomass Crop Assistance Program for eligible
perennial crops and work with the Federal Aviation
Administration to develop aviation fuels from farm wastes,
Vilsack said today at the  National Press Club .  The effort is part of a plan to boost annual production of
biofuels, including corn-based and cellulosic ethanol, to 36
billion gallons required by the Renewable Fuels Standard. U.S.
drivers will use about 138 billion gallons of gasoline this
year, and ethanol facilities are expected to produce 12.8
billion gallons of the additive, according to the Washington-
based Renewable Fuels Association.  “Domestic production of renewable energy, including
biofuels, is a national imperative,” Vilsack said at a press
conference. “That’s why USDA is working to assist in developing
a biofuels industry in every corner of the nation.”  Vilsack said he is directing the agency to plan within 60
days and help fund construction of five refineries spread across
the U.S. to process biomass into fuels. Higher costs for
refiners related to use of the new feedstocks will be paid from
up to $281.5 million that remains from the 2008 Farm Act,
Vilsack said.  Poet LLC, the largest U.S. ethanol producer, plans to seek
approval to consume these biomass crops under at a cellulosic
refinery in Emmetsburg, Iowa, and at a pilot plant in Scotland,
South Dakota, the company said today in an e-mailed statement.
Sioux Falls-based Poet also plant to use waste for a generator
at an ethanol plant.  The Environmental Protection Agency last week approved
increasing concentrations of ethanol blended with gasoline for
U.S. vehicles made in 2007 and later to 15 percent from 10
percent. A decision on whether to extend that ruling to cars
built from 2001 to 2006 will come next month after more testing,
the EPA said.  To boost demand for ethanol during the transition to higher
concentrations, the agency will help deploy 10,000 blending
pumps at convenience stores and filling stations around the
country. Each of those pumps cost $25,000, which would put the
total cost of the expansion at $250 million, Vilsack said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christopher Martin  in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net ;
 Alan Bjerga  in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 