-- U.S. Labor Department Sues Four Firms for Entrusting Investments to Madoff
-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s
-- 2010-10-21T20:10:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/u-s-labor-department-sues-over-pension-plans-bernard-madoff-investments.html
The U.S. Labor Department sued four
investment firms for allegedly failing to examine swindler
 Bernard Madoff ’s business practices before entrusting him with
hundreds of millions of dollars in pension funds.  Ivy Asset Management LLC, Beacon Associates Management
Corp., J.P. Jeanneret Associates Inc., Andover Associates
Management Corp. and their principals were named as defendants
in a complaint filed today in federal court in Manhattan.  The suit was brought under the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act on behalf of union-sponsored and single-employer
benefit plans, according to the complaint. The Labor Department
asked the court to order the defendants to “restore to the
plans all losses suffered” as a result of fiduciary breaches by
the defendants related to Madoff investments.  “These defendants chose their own financial interests over
those of the plans whose assets they were duty bound to manage
prudently,” Labor Secretary  Hilda Solis  said in a statement.  Madoff, 72, is serving a 150-year prison term after
admitting to orchestrating the biggest Ponzi scheme in history.
When he was arrested in December 2008, account statements
reflected 4,900 accounts with $65 billion in nonexistent
investments, according to  Irving Picard , the trustee overseeing
the Madoff bankruptcy.  ‘Very Seriously’  “Ivy takes its responsibilities to its clients very
seriously,” Craig Brown, a spokesman for the firm, said in an
e-mailed statement. He said the firm had fulfilled its duty to
those clients.  “This lawsuit relates to a non-discretionary advisory
business, where Ivy provided information to professional
investment advisers, who in turn chose how to use that
information and how and where to invest their clients’ assets,”
Brown said.  Ivy is a unit of New York-based  Bank of New York Mellon
Corp.   In May, New York Attorney General  Andrew Cuomo  sued Ivy,
along with its former chief executive officer,  Lawrence Simon ,
and former chief investment officer,  Howard Wohl , for allegedly
misleading clients about Madoff-related investments. Simon and
Wohl are named as defendants in the Labor Department suit.  Tab Rosenfeld, a Manhattan attorney who represents White
Plains, New York-based Beacon and principals Joel Danziger and
Harris Markhoff in other Madoff-related litigation, said by
phone that he hadn’t seen the Labor Department’s complaint and
couldn’t comment on it. Rosenfeld also has represented Andover.  Brian Whiteley, a Boston-based lawyer who represents
Syracuse, New York-based J.P. Jeanneret and its principals,  John Jeanneret  and  Paul Perry , didn’t immediately return a call
seeking comment.  The case is Solis v. Beacon Associates Management Corp.,
10-cv-08000, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 