-- U.S. Seeks G-20 Cooperation on Currencies, Pushes on Yuan
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2010-10-21T04:53:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/u-s-seeks-g-20-cooperation-on-currencies-pushes-china-on-yuan-valuation.html
Group of 20  policy makers will try
to resolve differences over exchange-rate policies this weekend
as U.S. officials continue to press China to let the yuan
appreciate faster.  The U.S. is pushing for the G-20 to agree on a statement of
cooperation on exchange-rate issues, either during the Oct. 22-
23 gathering in Gyeongju, South Korea, or at a summit of leaders
in Seoul in November, a U.S. official said today. The U.S. has
said it wants currencies to respond to market forces and
economic fundamentals, rather than government intervention.  China needs to let the yuan rise so other emerging market
nations will feel comfortable letting market forces affect their
currencies, Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said in a
Wall Street Journal interview published today, repeating a theme
from speeches he gave Oct. 6 in Washington and Oct. 18 in Palo
Alto, California. Geithner also said that “major currencies”
are “roughly in alignment now.”  Geithner’s comments show the U.S. is trying to forge a
united front among the Group of Seven nations in urging China
and other emerging market nations to let their currencies rise,
said  Marc Chandler , global head of currency strategy at Brown
Brothers Harriman.  “How the dollar does against the euro and sterling might
be different than how the dollar does against Asia,” Chandler
said. He predicted there would be increasing pressure on China
at the G-20 meetings, without an international agreement on
intervention such as the Plaza Accord of 1985.  Dollar Gains  Geithner’s comments led to gains in the dollar, sending it
to 81.27 yen as of 11:32 a.m. in Tokyo from 81.09 yesterday in
New York. The dollar gained to $1.3913 per euro from $1.3964.  G-20 officials convene amid concern countries are pursuing
weaker exchange rates as a route to stronger economic growth,
either by limiting currency gains with government purchases like
China or by discussing possible monetary easing, as the U.S. and
U.K. have done.  Stuck in the middle are nations such as South Korea and
Brazil, which have introduced controls to slow currency gains
and capital inflows. China’s surprise shift to higher interest
rates this week underscores the task developing nations face as
they struggle to keep speculative cash from destabilizing their
economies.  Record Flows  Emerging-market equity mutual funds attracted more than $60
billion this year and bond funds lured $41 billion, both on pace
for record annual inflows, according to data compiled by EPFR
Global, a Cambridge, Massachusetts-based research firm. The
investment drove 19 of 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg higher versus the dollar.  While Brazil has been more willing to relax its exchange-
rate controls, it is now finding that approach difficult to
sustain because of actions by other large emerging-market
nations, a U.S. Treasury official told reporters yesterday,
without naming China specifically. Brazil and India are framing
the issues the G-20 will need to tackle, the official said.  Group of 20 finance chiefs will pledge to “refrain from
competitive undervaluation” of their currencies, Dow Jones
Newswires reported, citing a draft of a statement for release
after the Gyeongju meeting. The G-20 will also promise to move
toward a “more market-determined exchange rate system,” and
seek to minimize “adverse effects of excess volatility and
disorderly movements in exchange rates,” according to Dow Jones.  IMF Roles  The U.S. backs current-account targets to gauge whether
individual trade surpluses or deficits are sustainable, and
Geithner wants the  International Monetary Fund  to take on a
larger role of economic surveillance, U.S. officials said. The
G-20 must help the IMF fulfill its roles in overseeing global
monetary systems and giving countries frank evaluations of their
exchange-rate policies, the Treasury official said.  Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  said finance chiefs
need to reach a “bargain” to coordinate economic policies,
though real agreement would require a “revolution.”  “What is needed now is a grand bargain among the major
players in the world economy,” King said in an Oct. 19 speech
to business leaders in Dudley, England. “A bargain that
recognizes the benefits of compromise on the real path of
economic adjustment in order to avoid the damaging consequences
of a move towards protectionism.”  ‘Weapon of Choice’  “The weapon of choice today is a competitive
devaluation,” Nobel Prize-winning economist  Joseph Stiglitz 
said yesterday in an interview on Bloomberg Radio’s “The Hays
Advantage” with  Kathleen Hays . “Of course, not everybody can
weaken their currency relative to others.”  Geithner last week delayed a report on foreign-exchange
markets, saying the yuan remained undervalued and that China
needed to show continued commitment to allowing the currency to
rise against the dollar over time. The yuan has risen 2.7
percent since a two-year peg against the dollar was scrapped on
June 19.  China Central Bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  earlier this
month said his nation needs to avoid the “shock therapy” of
excessive yuan appreciation and “very fast” gains probably
wouldn’t end global economic imbalances. Premier  Wen Jiabao  also
warned of the dangers of a rapid rise, saying yuan gains of 20
percent to 40 percent would exacerbate Chinese unemployment and
cause social upheaval.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Gyeongju, South Korea at
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
 Simon Kennedy  in Gyeongju, South Korea at
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net 
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  