-- U.S. Stocks Rise on Corporate Earnings, Jobless Claims Data
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2010-10-21T20:46:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/u-s-stock-index-futures-rise-ebay-netflix-advance-as-seagate-declines.html
U.S. stocks rose, sending benchmark
indexes higher for a second day, as better-than-estimated
earnings from EBay Inc. to  McDonald’s Corp.  and a drop in
jobless claims helped offset a slump in financial companies amid
speculation that banks face more losses from bad mortgages.  EBay , the owner of second-most visited e-commerce site,
jumped 6 percent, while  McDonald’s  climbed 1.3 percent.  Netflix
Inc. , the movie-rental service, surged 13 percent after raising
subscriber projections.  Bank of America Corp.  slid 3.3 percent.
 Alcoa Inc.  and Occidental Petroleum Corp. slumped at least 1.3
percent as commodities prices sank amid a rebound in the dollar.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index advanced 0.2 percent to
1,180.26 at 4 p.m. in New York, after earlier declining as much
as 0.6 percent. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  rose 38.60
points, or 0.4 percent, to 11,146.57 and earlier topped the
highest level on a closing basis since the week Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. filed for bankruptcy in September 2008.  “The turn in corporate profits is feeding into the economy
itself,” said  Michael Strauss , who helps oversee about $27
billion at Commonfund in Wilton, Connecticut. “We’re seeing the
overwhelming majority of companies beating earnings estimates.
There’s a pick-up in spending activity and some of that may
include hiring. That’s a good environment for equities.”  Earnings Scorecard  Benchmark gauges yesterday surged the most in two weeks as
profit at  Boeing Co.  and Yahoo! Inc. topped projections and
speculation grew the Federal Reserve will pump more cash into
the economy in a tactic known as quantitative easing. Per-share
earnings have  topped  estimates at more than 85 percent of
companies in the S&P 500 that have reported results since Oct.
7, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Net income has grown
47 percent for the group as sales increased 7.5 percent.  The  S&P 500  rose 1.1 percent to 1,178.17 yesterday as the
Fed said in its Beige Book business survey that U.S. economic
growth showed little sign of accelerating last month, fueling
speculation it will boost purchases of government debt.  Stocks maintained gains this morning after the index of
U.S. leading indicators climbed in September for the third
straight month, signaling the recovery will extend into 2011.
Another report showed manufacturing in the Philadelphia region
expanded less than forecast in October as a measure of orders
contracted for a fourth month.  Jobless Claims  Initial jobless  claims  fell by 23,000 to 452,000 in the
week ended Oct. 15, Labor Department figures showed today before
markets opened. The total number of people receiving
unemployment insurance fell, while those getting extended
payments rose.  “The latest economic figures show that the jobs market is
improving at a slow pace albeit in the right direction,” said
 Jason Pride , director of investment strategy at Glenmede in
Philadelphia, which manages $18 billion. “Corporate profits
have been pretty good. Investors are reacting accordingly.”  EBay  rallied 6 percent to $27.20 after the auction site
forecast higher-than-estimated sales and earnings. Chief
Executive Officer  John Donahoe , halfway through a three-year
campaign to revive growth, has cut listing fees to lure more
sellers and taken steps to make EBay’s Marketplaces commerce
site easier to use.  McDonald’s  rose 1.3 percent to $78.44. The world’s largest
restaurant chain posted a 10 percent gain in third-quarter
profit after luring more customers with new menu items. Net
income rose to $1.39 billion, or $1.29 a share. That compared
with the $1.25 average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Netflix  Netflix soared 13 percent to $172.69. The online and mail-
order movie service provider projected fourth-quarter profit of
as much as 74 cents a share, beating the average analyst
estimate of 70 cents.  Netflix  raised its year-end subscriber
forecast to as much as 19.7 million from up to 18.5 million.  Bank of America slid 3.3 percent to $11.36, leading the S&P
500 Diversified Financials  Index  down 1 percent, the largest
decline among 24 industries. The lender has slumped 7.9 percent
over the last three days as concerns grew that flawed
foreclosure procedures could worsen the earnings outlook for the
industry.  “There’s a dark cloud over the financials,” said  Michael Nasto , senior trader at U.S. Global Investors Inc., which
manages about $2.5 billion in San Antonio. “It’s fear about the
foreclosure situation. Even as earnings beat estimates, there’s
a potential for things to get worse in the future.”  Steve Leuthold , whose Leuthold Core Investment Fund has
beaten 88 percent of its rivals in the past five years, said
he’s willing to consider investing in banks.  ‘Another Look’  “We’re getting some of the bank groups that are rating
attractive at this time, so I will take another look,”
Minneapolis-based Leuthold said today in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop with  Betty Liu .” “You are
looking at values, and sometimes when you are trying to be a
value player, you must look beyond the short-term negative
fundamentals. We do not own any now, but it is possible.”  Caterpillar Inc . fell 1.2 percent to $78.89 after the
largest maker of construction and mining equipment predicted
higher expenses for pensions, research and taxes in 2011.  Alcoa slumped 1.3 percent to $12.78, while Occidental
Petroleum declined 2.7 percent to $78.80, leading gauges of raw-
materials and energy lower as the dollar rose, reducing the
appeal of commodities as an alternative investment. The S&P GSCI
Spot Index of 24 commodities declined 1.7 percent.  The Dollar Index, which tracks the U.S. currency against
six major peers, rose 0.4 percent to 77.49, rebounding from as
low as 76.84.  “We’ve been running out of steam,” said  Peter Sorrentino ,
who helps oversee $13.3 billion at Huntington Asset Advisors in
Cincinnati. “We’ve had a big run-up, especially in commodities.
There’s not a lot of conviction here. The whole financial sector
is going to be haunted going forward. Banks are a sort of
barometer for the entire market. If there’s a cloud over them,
they are going to cast a cloud over everything they touch.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 