-- U.S. Meat-Industry Proposal May Cut Jobs, Boost Costs, Lobbying Group Says
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2010-10-21T20:57:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/u-s-meat-industry-proposal-may-cut-jobs-boost-costs-lobbying-group-says.html
A U.S. Department of Agriculture
proposal to boost competition in meat processing may eliminate
104,000 jobs and boost retail costs by 3.3 percent, a meatpacker
lobbying group said.  About 30,000 jobs would be lost among farmers, processors
and other groups directly related to the meat industry, while
74,000 jobs in “supplier and ancillary industries” will be
cut, according to a  study  released today by the American Meat
Institute. Consumer costs would increase by $2.7 billion from
$80.6 billion spent annually on meat.  The rule, proposed by the USDA in June, would require
meatpackers to justify their choice of one farmer supplier over
another. This may make packers vulnerable to lawsuits, spurring
them to eliminate most marketing contracts with producers, said
 Mark Dopp , the institute’s general counsel. The study assumes
prices that meatpackers pay for livestock will mirror spot
markets, which are more volatile and would boost costs, he said.  “The way this rule is written is going to fundamentally
change packer behavior,” Dopp said on a conference call with
reporters. “It is going to largely make marketing agreements go
away.”  The proposed rule would  reduce  the U.S. gross domestic
product by $14 billion, and federal, state and local governments
would face $1.36 billion in lost tax revenue, according to the
Washington-based group. Smithfield Foods Inc., the world’s
biggest pork processor, and Tyson Foods Inc., the largest U.S.
chicken processor, are members.  ‘Fair Shake’  The USDA is accepting comments on the proposed rule and
cannot comment on the lobbying group’s study, agency spokesman
 Caleb Weaver  said.  “USDA has a responsibility to look out for all of our
farmers and make sure that the playing field is as level as it
can possibly be, so that farmers and ranchers of all sizes get a
fair shake,” Weaver said in an e-mail. “We will take all of
the comments we receive very seriously.”  Bill Bullard , the chief executive officer of producer group
R-CALF USA, said the economic impact will be “minimal” because
“absolutely no language” in the rule prohibits packers from
entering marketing accords with producers. The institute
“grossly over-exaggerated any costs,” he said in a telephone
interview from Billings, Montana.  “This study is based on the premise that packers will
decide not to participate in marketing programs,” Bullard said.
“We believe that is nothing but a hollow threat to prevent
packers from disclosing information about their cattle-
procurement practices.”  There are about 950,000  cattle farms  in the U.S., compared
with 1.6 million in 1980, and the hog industry has declined to
71,000 farms from 666,000, according to the USDA. The average
poultry grower makes about 34 cents per bird, while processing
companies make about $3.23 per bird, the USDA said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  