-- Mortgage Rates in U.S. Rise for First Time in Five Weeks, Freddie Mac Says
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2010-10-21T14:11:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/u-s-mortgage-rates-rise-for-first-time-in-five-weeks-update1-.html
Mortgage rates for U.S. loans
increased for the first time in five weeks, pushing up borrowing
costs from a record low.  The  rate  for a 30-year fixed loan climbed to 4.21 percent
in the week ended today from 4.19 percent, Freddie Mac said in a
statement. The average  15-year  rate rose to 3.64 percent from
3.62 percent, according to the McLean, Virginia-based mortgage-
finance company.  Record-low mortgage rates have done little to increase
property demand as the U.S. unemployment rate hovers near 10
percent. The Mortgage Bankers Association’s  index  of mortgage
applications fell 11 percent in the week ended Oct. 15, the
biggest decline since June, the Washington-based group said
yesterday. Refinancing dropped 11 percent, while purchases
decreased 6.7 percent.  “You need more than just low rates, you need bank and
consumer confidence to pick up,” Andres Carbacho-Burgos, an
economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in West Chester,
Pennsylvania, said in an interview. “Both are at a very low
level and will probably remain that way until the first quarter
of 2011 at least.”  Housing  starts  rose to a 610,000 annual rate in September,
the most since April, Commerce Department figures showed Oct.
19. Building permits fell 5.6 percent to the lowest level in
more than a year, led by a plunge in applications for
multifamily units.  Sales of existing houses were the second-lowest on record
in August, the most recent figures available, according to the
National Association of Realtors. Demand has slumped since the
April expiration of a tax credit of as much as $8,000 for
homebuyers.  “The housing market is only just now starting to emerge
from its hangover after the expiration of the homebuyer’s tax
credit,” said Carbacho-Burgos. “There’s not a whole lot of
reason to expect an improvement in confidence or home buying
until we see an improvement in unemployment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Kucera  in New York at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
at  kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 