-- Ukraine's Hryvnia May Gain as Fed Keeps Rates Low, Investment Capital Says
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 2010-10-21T06:17:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/ukraine-s-hryvnia-may-gain-as-fed-keeps-rates-low-investment-capital-says.html
Ukraine’s currency may strengthen to
7.30 per dollar by the end of 2011 as the U.S. Federal Reserve
keeps interest rates low and capital floods into emerging
markets, Investment Capital Ukraine said.  The hryvnia will probably appreciate to 7.80 per dollar by
the end of this year, the Kiev-based investment bank’s analysts,
led by  Alexander Valchyshen , said late yesterday in an e-mailed
note to clients.  “As the economic recovery and accompanying recovery of
consumer demand are expected to be combined with, and possibly
fueled by, the extraordinarily loose monetary policy of the Fed,
we foresee rising inflation,” the analysts said in the report.
“The central bank will allow nominal currency appreciation if
the anticipated flood of foreign capital investment occurs.”  The hryvnia fell 45 percent against the dollar in the 12
months through August 2009, making it the worst performer among
more than 170 currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The currency has
dropped 0.7 percent against the dollar since Sept. 1, after
strengthening for the previous eight months.  The currency’s depreciation is “temporary” and was caused
by “expectations,” the central bank’s chief adviser,  Valeriy Lytvytskyi , told journalists yesterday. The central bank, which
controls the exchange rate by buying and selling dollars, will
“mitigate sharp fluctuations,” he said.  The central bank reported Oct. 6 that it sold $686.9
million on the interbank market last month to arrest the
hryvnia’s decline.  The bank cut its benchmark discount rate to 7.75 from 8.5
percent on Aug. 10, its third reduction this year, as inflation
slowed.  Inflation  jumped to 10.5 percent in September, the highest
since March, fueled by the cost of food, according to the
government. Food prices climbed 13.2 percent in September from
the same month a year earlier, after rising 8.8 percent in
August, the state statistics committee said Oct. 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daryna Krasnolutska  in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net ; 