-- Unesco Suspends Award Sponsored by Equatorial Guinea's President Obiang
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2010-10-21T17:09:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/unesco-suspends-award-sponsored-by-equatorial-guinea-s-president-obiang.html
The United Nations’ cultural body
suspended an award funded by  Equatorial Guinea  President  Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo  after criticism from scientists and human
rights groups, the UN agency known as Unesco said.  The  United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization  was to give a $300,000 prize to as many as three
scientists for research that improved quality of life, Unesco
spokeswoman Susan Williams said today by phone from Paris.  “The executive board of Unesco has decided to suspend the
prize and continue the consultations among all parties concerned
in a spirit of mutual respect, until a consensus is reached,”
Williams said. “It effectively puts the prize on hold
indefinitely.”  Obiang has ruled sub-Saharan Africa’s fourth-biggest oil-
producer since 1979, when he seized power from his uncle in a
coup. He won a fourth term in elections in November, securing
95.4 percent of the vote. Groups including New York-based  Human
Rights Watch  said conditions were not in place for a free and
fair contest, and have accused Obiang of human rights abuses.  The Equatorial Guinea Embassy in Washington didn’t respond
to the announcement when asked in a phone call and an e-mail
seeking comment.  Global Witness, the U.K.-based advocacy group, said Unesco
should drop the prize altogether.  “A dictator who has impoverished his citizens and enriched
himself and his family by plundering the country’s oil wealth
has no place sponsoring a UN prize,”  Simon Taylor , director of
Global Witness, said in an e-mailed statement.  Corruption Index  The award jury made a recommendation in May to consult with
Unesco’s 193 members “given the increasing number of voices
being raised against the prize,” Williams said.  “Scientists, important NGOs that we work with and the
director-general,  Irina Bokova , concerned by the protests
against the prize, asked UNESCO’s executive board to review the
situation and come up with a consensual solution,” she said.  Equatorial Guinea ranks 168th out of 180 countries on
Transparency International’s  2009 list  of global corruption
perceptions. A  2004 U.S. Senate investigation  into money
laundering found that Washington-based Riggs Bank was holding as
much as $750 million in accounts controlled by Obiang, his
family members or government officials.  Obiang proposed the prize, funded from his Foundation for
the Preservation of Life, in 2007 and Unesco adopted it in 2008,
Williams said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Colin McClelland  in Toronto at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 