-- Hungary Stake in Refiner Mol Would Be `Beneficial,' Minister Fellegi Says
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s   a n d   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2010-10-21T16:21:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/hungary-seeks-surgut-s-mol-stake-may-finance-from-market-fellegi-says.html
The Hungarian government would find
it “beneficial” to become a shareholder in central Europe’s
largest refiner  Mol Nyrt.  and may use market financing for a
potential purchase of  OAO Surgutneftegaz ’s stake in the company,
National Development Minister  Tamas Fellegi  said.  Hungary and Russia are working to agree on a broad range of
energy issues by the end of the year, including Surgut’s 21.2
percent stake in Mol, Fellegi said in an interview in Budapest
yesterday. The detailed accord on Surgut’s stake would be worked
out following an agreement between the two countries.  “We believe it would be beneficial for the state if it
could become a shareholder in Mol,” he said. “One of the
possible solutions is for the Hungarian state to become a
shareholder in Mol by means of purchasing the stake currently
held by Surgutneftegaz.”  Siberia-based Surgut purchased the Mol stake from
Austria’s OMV AG for 1.4 billion euros ($2 billion) in March
2009 after the Hungarian refiner fended off OMV’s hostile
takeover attempt. The stake is worth 460 billion forint ($2.3
billion) at yesterday’s closing price.  Mol rose 515 forint, or 2.5 percent, to 21,240 forint
today, its highest since Oct. 6.  ‘Not Worried’  Surgut wants to sell its stake in Mol, Reuters reported
citing an unidentified person in the Russian company.  “We want to sell it and we are in constant talks with
Mol,” Reuters reported, citing the person.  Hungary may be able to finance a potential transaction from
the market “based on the preliminary feedback we’ve received,”
Fellegi said. “I’m not worried about raising the necessary
funds, should the government wish to.”  Mol and the Hungarian government said Surgut’s acquisition
was also a hostile takeover attempt. The Russian company has
been barred from exercising its ownership rights as its holding
hasn’t yet been registered into Mol’s books.  Mol’s share price has more than doubled since March 30,
2009, when Surgut announced its purchase of the stake. The stock
gained 25 percent this year, compared with an 11.5 percent
advance in the 13-member benchmark BUX index.  The Mol stake is one of a “range of issues in the area of
energy cooperation” with Russia and the government wants to
reach an agreement encompassing these by the end of the year,
Fellegi said. Other topics include long-term natural-gas
agreements that expire in 2015 and gas projects such as South
Stream, Fellegi said.  ‘One-sided Energy Dependence’  Hungary, which relies on imports for about 80 percent of
its natural gas consumption, is also seeking new supply sources
and transport routes to “abolish its one-sided energy
dependence,” on Russia, Fellegi said this month. The country
supports the European Union’s Nabucco, Russia’s South Stream
natural gas pipeline projects and the AGRI liquefied natural gas
venture with Romania, Georgia and Azerbaijan.  “It’s the ambition of both the Russian and the Hungarian
parties to reach an agreement on this energy cooperation package
by the end of the year,” he said.  Hungary is also close to a deal to end Russia’s involvement
in the unprofitable national carrier  Malev Zrt ., Fellegi said.  Hungary took a 95 percent stake in the airline after the
company’s latest privatization attempt failed, replacing Russian
state-owned development bank Vnesheconombank as the controlling
shareholder. The deal included the lender agreeing to pay 32
million euros ($45 million) in bank guarantees to Hungary and
convert Malev’s existing loans to cheaper ones.  The government, which agreed to provide 25.2 billion forint
to Malev by converting debt to stock and paying the balance in
cash, considers its ownership role temporary and is looking for
potential investors in the carrier.  “We’re currently in intensive negotiations with three
strategic partners on a possible cooperation” with Malev, the
minister said.  Transport Companies  The five-month-old government, under pressure to meet
budget- deficit  targets set by the International Monetary Fund
and the European Union in a 2008 bailout agreement, wants to
exit Malev to save the cost of running it. The cabinet is also
seeking to revamp public transportation companies, including
national railway Mav Zrt., Fellegi said.  “Comprehensive” debt consolidation at the railway company
“isn’t a realistic option in the current situation,” the
minister said.  As part of Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s cost-reduction
drive, Hungary will suspend all public-private partnership
projects as a review of these contracts revealed that the
government carries all the risk in each case, Fellegi said.  The government would need to spend about 120 billion forint
in 2011 to fund these projects should everything remain
unchanged, Fellegi said. The ministry calculates with saving
about 50 billion forint by suspending such contracts where
execution hasn’t started, he said.  Fellegi denied earlier press reports that the government
may be interested in buying Bayerische Landesbank’s local unit,
 MKB Zrt .  “According to my knowledge, the Hungarian state is not
conducting any talks on acquiring MKB,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Edith Balazs  in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  