-- Balkan, Hungarian Banks Are East Europe’s Riskiest, Fitch Says
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2010-10-21T09:44:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/hungary-romania-bulgaria-banks-are-east-europe-s-riskiest-fitch-says.html
Romanian, Hungarian and Bulgarian
banks are the most vulnerable in eastern Europe to any renewed
crisis as the volume of bad loans remains high and sluggish
economic growth curtails lending, Fitch Ratings said.  “Banks are not doing so well, specifically in terms of
banking asset-quality data, in Romania, to some extent Hungary
and to a lesser extent Bulgaria,”  Michael Steinbarth , a senior
director at Fitch in London, said in an interview. “Romanian,
Hungarian and Bulgarian banking systems also display weaker
features because of macroeconomic imbalances.”  East Europe’s banks, including units of Milan-based
 UniCredit SpA , Vienna-based  Erste Group Bank AG  and Paris-based
 Societe Generale SA , struggled to roll over debt, including
foreign-currency mortgages and consumer loans, during the credit
crunch. Romanian and Bulgarian banks are also at risk of
contagion from the Greek debt crisis, and Hungary’s temporary
bank levy is cutting into profits.  Hungary and Romania needed International Monetary Fund
bailouts to avoid defaults during the crisis. While the region
is recovering from its deepest recession since adopting free-
market policies two decades ago, government austerity measures
are keeping growth rates subdued as the European Union seeks to
prevent continent’s debt crisis from escalating.  In Romania deficit-reduction efforts over the next several
years will curtail economic growth, Steinbarth said Oct. 12.
Prime Minister  Emil Boc  is cutting jobs and wages to meet an
IMF-backed goal of narrowing its shortfall to 6.8 percent of
gross domestic product this year from 7.2 percent last year.  Hungary Bank Tax  Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  has pledged to cut
the deficit to less than the EU limit of 3 percent next year, a
goal the country hasn’t reached since joining the bloc six years
ago. Bulgaria has to bring its  budget shortfall  to the EU limit
next year from 4.8 percent or face EU penalties.  “The various governments have taken measures to reduce”
economic risks “but more needs to be done,” Steinbarth said.
“Most economies are still going through the economic cycle.”  Emerging European economies will expand an average 3.7
percent this year, according to the IMF’s Oct. 6 global
forecasts. Hungary’s GDP will grow 0.6 percent, while Bulgaria’s
economy is stagnating, the IMF said. Romania’s economy will
shrink 1.9 percent, according to the IMF.  Hungary’s bank tax, the largest in Europe, will impede the
recovery “because banks are likely to try to pass it on to
customers,” Steinbarth said.  The tax is 0.5 percent on assets of more than 50 billion
forint ($223 million). It will raise 187 billion forint
annually, or about 0.6 percent of GDP.  Negative Outlooks  Fitch has negative outlooks on 15 of 44 banks it rates in
the region, signaling possible rating cuts. Six are in Bulgaria
and four in Poland.  “Contributing factors include the impact of the unwinding
of bank credit booms as well as foreign-currency debt on balance
sheets of banks and some reliance on funding from European
parent banks, including Greek parent banks for Bulgaria and
Romania,” Steinbarth said.  Greece’s fiscal crisis, which led to an EU-led bailout in
May, raised funding costs for the country’s banks, increasing
the risk they would fail to repay debt at Balkan units. Almost a
third of Bulgaria’s banks and 12 percent of Romania’s are owned
by Greek parents such as Piraeus Bank SA and  Alpha Bank SA .  Greek-owned banks in the Balkans will receive 630 million
euros ($871 million) of loans from the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development, the lender said Oct. 5.  Delinquent Loans  Delinquent loans in Bulgaria were 12.6 percent of lending
in June, almost twice the year-earlier figure, central bank data
show. Hungary’s ratio was 7.5 percent in June, the financial
regulator said. Romanian loans at least 90 days overdue were
11.3 percent of the total in August, the central bank said.  “Non-performing loan ratios are likely to remain high in
2010 and also loan impairment charges with some reduction
expected for next year,” Steinbarth said.  There are still lessons to be learned from the crisis, such
as the need to reduce foreign-currency lending, Steinbarth said.
In Hungary, Romania and Bulgaria, loans in euros and Swiss
francs, popular during the boom years to escape high interest
rates, are about two-thirds of outstanding credit.  “Rapid credit build-up is unlikely to be repeated in the
near term,” Steinbarth said. “Foreign-currency lending is an
issue that needs to be addressed.”  The risks prompted some banks to leave the region.  Allied
Irish Banks Plc  is selling a 70 percent stake in Poland’s Bank
Zachodni WBK SA to  Banco Santander SA  as regulators force it to
bolster its balance sheet. Germany’s BayernLB, which needed 10
billion euros from the state of Bavaria, may sell its 89.8
percent stake in Hungary’s MKB Bank. Austria’s Hypo Alpe,
nationalized last year, plans to sell assets regionwide.  “The Austrians, Unicredit and some others are still the
strategic players in the region and they are committed to
staying,” Steinbarth said. “In the medium term, central and
eastern Europe have better growth prospects than the more
developed European markets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Agnes Lovasz  in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  