-- Unilever's Sara Lee Deal Needs `Extra Care,' European Union's Almunia Says
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2010-10-21T09:25:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/unilever-s-sara-lee-deal-needs-extra-care-european-union-s-almunia-says.html
Unilever ’s planned acquisition of
Sara Lee Corp.’s body-care unit is being scrutinized with
“extra care” by the European Union,  Joaquin Almunia , its
antitrust commissioner, said today.  “This is a complex case” which will have an impact on a
large number of consumers, he said today at a conference in
Brussels. This “makes the search for suitable remedies
particularly challenging because not all the brands, products,
and markets present the same problems.”  Rotterdam- and London-based Unilever agreed to buy Sara
Lee’s shower gel and European detergents business to expand into
the higher-growth personal care category as part of Chief
Executive Officer  Paul Polman ’s push to double sales. The 1.3
billion-euro ($1.8 billion) deal would add brands including
Radox and Sanex to Unilever, the world’s second-largest consumer
goods company.  “This isn’t a huge strategic deal; if it doesn’t happen,
it’s negative for them but it’d be more of an irritation,”
 Julian Hardwick , a London-based analyst at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc, said today. “Ultimately what it’ll come
down to is whether the remedies which the EU demands, which will
be some brand divestments, will be so onerous as to be
unattractive to Unilever.”  The European Commission extended its deadline for the
review of the acquisition to Nov. 25, the third time the
antitrust regulator delayed the review ruling. The EU sent a
formal statement of objections regarding the deal to the
companies in August.  “It would not be appropriate to comment on the contents of
our remedies proposal at this stage,” said  Paul Matthews , a
spokesman for Unilever.  Unilever’s  shares  rose 1.8 percent, or 37 cents, to 21.50
euros in Amsterdam as of 11:03 a.m. Dutch time, the biggest
gainer in the benchmark Amsterdam Exchange Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Clementine Fletcher  in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 