-- United, Southwest Aid `Shock and Awe' Airline Profits
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2010-10-21T20:16:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/united-southwest-push-airlines-to-biggest-profits-since-2007.html
United Airlines, Continental
Airlines and  Southwest Airlines Co.  posted third-quarter profits
from rising fares to help push earnings at the largest U.S.
carriers to their highest in three years.  Profit at the  eight biggest airlines  was $2.44 billion,
based on results from today and yesterday. That beat estimates
of $2.4 billion from CRT Capital Group LLC’s Michael Derchin and
$2.3 billion from Deutsche Bank AG’s  Michael Linenberg .  U.S. airlines have maintained most of the cuts in seating
capacity they enacted in 2008, giving them more ticket-pricing
power as business travel rebounds following the recession. The
collective profit at the major carriers marked their best three-
month period since 2007’s second quarter.  “I do expect another good quarter for the airlines, though
the shock and awe certainly happened this quarter,” said  Vicki Bryan , an analyst for New York-based Gimme Credit LLC. “It’s
unusual for the airline industry to consistently make money,
much less when most other industries are struggling.”  The  Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index  rose 1.8 percent at
4:15 p.m. in New York. That extended yesterday’s 7.2 percent
gain after  Delta Air Lines Inc. , American Airlines parent AMR
Corp. and  US Airways Group Inc.  beat analysts’ estimates and
posted profits after year-earlier losses.  Strong Fundamentals  “Structurally, the fundamentals are strong,” said  Robert Mann  of aviation consultant R.W. Mann & Co. in Port Washington,
New York. “This period of profitability could last, barring the
ever-present potential for external shocks.”  Southwest’s net income was $205 million, or 27 cents a
share, after a year-earlier loss of $16 million, or 2 cents.
United’s net income totaled $387 million, while Continental’s
total was $354 million, according to  United Continental Holdings
Inc. , the parent company created after the two carriers closed
their merger on Oct. 1.  The United and Continental results reported today were
their last as separate companies. They will fly as different
airlines until they receive a single operating certificate from
U.S. regulators, probably in late 2011. Chicago-based United
Continental Holdings is now the world’s largest airline.  JetBlue, Alaska  JetBlue Airways Corp.  said today that third-quarter profit
rose almost fourfold to $59 million, or 18 cents a share.
Seattle-based  Alaska Air Group Inc. , parent of Alaska Airlines
and commuter carrier Horizon Air, said net income jumped 40
percent to $122.4 million, or $3.32 a share.  Southwest plans to boost capacity 8 percent in 2011’s first
quarter and 5 percent in the second, Chief Financial Officer
 Laura Wright  said. The Dallas-based airline doesn’t intend to
increase its fleet next year and will achieve the gains by
flying its Boeing Co. jets more, she said. Southwest is adding
capacity to offset deep cuts in 2010’s first half, and hasn’t
decided on a full-year change, Wright said.  Delta’s earnings were the largest among the eight big
carriers, at $929 million, or $1.10 a share, excluding some
costs. Linenberg projected Delta would earn 95 cents a share,
and Derchin estimated $1.01.  The industry’s strength in pricing is showing up in
measures such as unit revenue, the amount collected for each
seat flown a mile, and average fares. United said unit revenue
rose 19 percent on its main jet operations, and average fares at
Southwest jumped 16 percent to $132.53.  “We’ll continue to show revenue gains year-over-year in
the fourth quarter,” Southwest Chief Executive Officer  Gary Kelly  said in an interview. “We’ve got momentum built up for
year-over-year improvement into the first quarter.”  AirTran Holdings Inc. , the discount carrier being acquired
by Southwest, probably will report a profit tomorrow of 17 cents
a share, the average of 12 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Deferred Deliveries  JetBlue, based in New York, said it deferred 10 deliveries
of  Airbus SAS  A320s to cut capital spending and opted out of
orders for two  Embraer  E-190s. That trimmed deliveries to seven
A320s in each of 2012 and 2013, with the delayed jets arriving
in 2016.  “These actions reduce our aircraft-purchase obligations by
over $500 million through 2013,” CEO  Dave Barger  said on a
conference call.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mary Schlangenstein  in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
 Mary Jane Credeur  in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 