-- United Rentals Plans Debt as Company Bond Sales Jump 87%: New Issue Alert
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2010-10-21T09:15:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/united-rentals-plans-debt-as-company-bond-sales-jump-87-new-issue-alert.html
United Rentals Inc. , the equipment-
leasing company with more than 550 locations, is marketing debt
as corporate bond sales jump 87 percent from the similar period
last week amid better-than-expected third-quarter earnings.  United Rentals may sell $750 million of 10-year notes as
soon as today at a yield of 8.25 percent to 8.5 percent,
according to a person familiar with the transaction, who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set. It boosted
its offer from $500 million, the person said.  CSX Corp.  and  UnitedHealth Group Inc.  are among companies
that have offered $21 billion of debt this week, compared with
$11.25 billion in the similar period last week, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales are jumping as per-share
earnings have  topped estimates  at 67 of the 79 companies in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index that have reported results since
Oct. 7, Bloomberg data show.  “As we’re getting to the end of the earnings season
reporting time, we’re going to see more names come to market,”
said  Rajeev Sharma , a money manager at First Investors
Management who helps oversee $1.4 billion of investment-grade
debt in New York. “With rates where they are, it’s a good time
for these guys to come in.”  The extra yield investors demand to own investment-grade
bonds instead of Treasuries rose 1 basis points to 183 basis
points yesterday, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch
U.S. Corporate Master Index. Absolute yields on the debt were
unchanged at 3.6 percent, the index data show.  UnitedHealth Notes  UnitedHealth, the biggest U.S. health insurer by revenue,
helped lead $2.47 billion of debt sales yesterday, Bloomberg
data show. Investment-grade companies accounted for $1.95
billion of sales, and high-yield, high-risk companies issued
$515 million, the data show.  Spreads on speculative-grade corporate bonds widened 2
basis points to 606 basis points, according to the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield Master II Index. Yields
rose 1 basis point to 7.78 percent.  High-yield, high-risk bonds are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and BBB- by Standard & Poor’s. A basis point
is 0.01 percentage point.  United Rentals will use proceeds from its offering to
repurchase 7.75 percent senior subordinated notes maturing in
2013, including payment for a call premium, and to reduce
borrowings under a credit line, according to a statement
distributed by Business Wire yesterday. The Greenwich,
Connecticut-based company will issue the debt through United
Rentals North America Inc., it said in the statement.  The company last  issued  bonds in November 2009, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The 10-year notes will be callable after five years, said
the person familiar with the offering.  The following is a description of at least $7.3 billion of
pending sales of dollar-denominated bonds in the U.S.  Investment Grade  POSCO, the world’s third-largest steelmaker by production,
plans to sell as much as $700 million of 10-year fixed-rate
senior unsecured notes denominated in U.S. dollars, according to
a person familiar with the transaction. The debt may yield 190
basis points to 200 basis points more than similar-maturity U.S.
Treasuries, said the person, who declined to be identified
because the matter is private.  TRANSNET LTD., South Africa’s state-owned ports, rail and
pipeline operator, said it may sell $1 billion worth of bonds in
international markets to pay for expansion. Transnet has 35.2
billion rand ($5 billion) of debt outstanding.  KOREA GAS CORP., the world’s biggest buyer of liquefied
natural gas, plans to raise as much as $1 billion from dollar-
denominated bonds to fund overseas investments, according to a
person with knowledge of the matter. The Seongnam-based company
hired five banks to help it sell notes, the person said,
declining to name the banks and asking not to be identified
because the information is confidential. Deutsche Bank AG,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and UBS AG arranged the meetings, the
person said.  Not Rated  BWAY PARENT CO. may sell $125 million of five-year notes
that may pay interest in cash or additional debt, according to a
person familiar with the offering who declined to be identified
because terms aren’t set. The company, a unit of Madison
Dearborn Partners LLC, owns Bway Holding Co., the maker of cans
and containers owned by Madison Dearborn Partners LLC.  STERICYCLE INC. plans to issue $175 million of seven-year,
3.89 percent notes and $225 million of 10-year, 4.47 percent
debt after receiving informal commitments from 22 institutional
investors to buy the securities, it said in a statement
distributed by Business Wire.  AVANGARDCO INVESTMENTS PUBLIC LTD., Ukraine’s biggest egg
producer, plans to sell $250 million to $350 million of five-
year bonds that may yield less than 9 percent, according to a
person familiar with the transaction, who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t set.  High Yield  UNITED RENTALS INC., the equipment rental company with more
than 550 locations, plans to sell $750 million of notes due
2020, according to a person familiar with the transaction.
Proceeds from the senior subordinated notes, which will be
issued through United Rentals North America Inc., may be used to
buy back 7.75 percent senior subordinated debt maturing in 2013
and to reduce borrowings under a credit line, the company said
in a statement distributed by Business Wire. The 10-year notes
will be noncallable for five years, said the person, who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD. , Australia’s third-biggest
producer of iron ore, plans to sell $2.04 billion of U.S.
dollar-denominated bonds to repay outstanding debt, according to
a statement to the Australian stock exchange. The senior
unsecured notes will be rated BB+ and will mature in October
2015, Fitch Ratings said in a separate statement.  (Added Oct. 19. See  FMG AU  .)  AMERICAN ACHIEVEMENT CORP., the maker of class rings and
yearbooks for the educational institution market, plans to sell
$365 million of senior secured notes due 2016. The debt will be
guaranteed on a second-priority senior secured basis by parent
company AAC Holding Corp., the company said in an Oct. 18
statement distributed by Business Wire.  (Added Oct. 19. See 75407Z US .)  RURAL/METRO CORP., the provider of medical transportation
and fire protection, plans to sell $200 million of senior notes
due 2018 through a private offering, the company said in an Oct.
18 statement distributed by Marketwire.  {Added Oct. 19. See  RURL US  .)  HIDILI INDUSTRY INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT LTD., the Chinese
coal mining company, plans to sell $400 million of five-year
dollar bonds, according to a person familiar with the matter,
who asked not to be identified as details are private. Moody’s
rated the debt B1 and S&P ranked it BB-, one step higher.  (Added Oct. 19. See  1393 HK  .)  SUN HEALTHCARE INC., a provider of nursing and health-care
services to senior citizens, plans to sell $225 million of notes
due 2018 through Sabra Health Care REIT Inc., the company said
in a statement distributed by Marketwire. Sun Healthcare will
guarantee the senior notes until it completes its separation of
Sabra Health Care into a publicly traded company, according to
the statement. Proceeds may be used to repurchase Sun
Healthcare’s outstanding 9.125 percent senior subordinated debt
due 2015, the company said.  OMNOVA SOLUTIONS INC., the maker of specialty chemicals
used in paper and carpets, plans to sell $250 million of senior
notes to help fund its purchase of Eliokem International SAS and
to repay or replace bank debt, the Fairlawn, Ohio-based company
said in a statement. A new $200 million term loan will also help
pay for the acquisition, the company said. Omnova has no
outstanding bonds, said company spokeswoman  Sandi Noah .  FRIENDFINDER NETWORKS INC., the publisher of Penthouse
magazine, plans to sell $296 million of secured first-lien notes
due 2013, according to a note from Standard & Poor’s. S&P rated
the debt from the private Boca Raton, Florida-based company B.  Offerings in Pipeline  CODELCO, the world’s biggest copper producer, hired
Deutsche Bank AG and HSBC Holdings Plc to manage a bond sale,
said a person familiar with the transaction who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t set. The state-owned company led
the rescue of 33 miners trapped half a mile below Chile’s
Atacama Desert.  CREDIT BANK OF MOSCOW plans to sell five-year dollar bonds,
according to a person familiar with the transaction.  The sale
of Reg S securities is being arranged by Commerzbank AG, ING
Groep NV and Raiffeisen Bank International, the banker said.  DOHA BANK QSC, Qatar’s third-largest bank, hired Morgan
Stanley and JPMorgan Chase & Co. to manage a planned $500
million bond sale, its chief executive officer said. The
offering, announced on the Qatar Exchange website, will be
marketed to investors in the U.S., Europe and the Middle East,
 Raghavan Seetharaman  said in an Oct. 20 telephone interview.  HUTCHISON WHAMPOA LTD. , the Hong Kong-based telecoms, ports
and property company owned by  Li Ka-Shing , hired Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. to sell perpetual hybrid dollar notes, according to a
person familiar with the matter. Hutchison’s notes, which will
be senior only to the company’s shares, were assigned
preliminary ratings of BBB by Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings, according to separate statements by those companies.
The notes can be bought back in October 2015 and will become
floating-rate paying an additional 100 basis points of interest
in October 2020 if not already redeemed, Fitch said.  SANTANDER U.K. PLC , a unit of Spain’s largest bank, plans
to sell mortgage-backed securities, according to two people
familiar with the transaction. The lender hired Barclays
Capital, Bank of America Merrill Lynch and JPMorgan Chase & Co.
to help its investment banking unit to arrange the transaction,
said the people, who declined to be named before the deal is
completed. Santander will meet European and U.S. investors next
week before pricing the deal in November. The notes will be
issued in dollars, pounds and euros and sold through Holmes
Master Issuer PLC Series 2010-1.  BELARUS may sell debt in the U.S. and Asia, according to
Finance Minister Andrei Kharkovets. “We will undoubtedly enter
the Asian and the American markets,” Kharkovets said in an Oct.
15 interview in Moscow, declining to comment on the timing of
possible sales.  GEORGIAN RAILWAY LLC, the former Soviet republic’s state-
owned rail company, is preparing a bond roadshow in the U.S.,
Giorgi Gagnidze, the company’s financial director, said in
comments broadcast on Rustavi-2 television.  ICICI BANK LTD., India’s second-largest lender, hired
Barclays Capital, Citigroup Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG to sell as
much as $1 billion of bonds with maturities between five and 10
years, according to three people familiar with the offering.
India’s second-biggest lender is rated Ba1 by Moody’s Investors
Service and BBB- by S&P.  IRVING PLACE CAPITAL may issue $250 million of senior
secured notes to help pay for its leveraged buyout of Thermadyne
Holdings Corp. and refinance the company’s debt, Thermadyne
Chief Financial Officer Steven Schumm said in an Oct. 5
interview. The company will also arrange a $60 million asset-
based revolving credit line. Jefferies Group Inc. and Royal Bank
of Canada will manage the sale of six-year bonds, Schumm said.  KOREA NATIONAL OIL CORP. hired Barclays Plc, BNP Paribas
SA, Credit Suisse Group AG, Deutsche Bank AG and Korea
Development Bank for a sale of dollar bonds, a person familiar
with the deal said on Oct. 6. The company known as KNOC said in
September it plans to raise between $500 million and $1 billion
to fund acquisitions. KNOC is rated A1 by Moody’s Investors
Service and A by Standard & Poor’s.  AL BARAKA BANK EGYPT ESC, a unit of Bahrain-based  Albaraka
Banking Group , may sell dollar-denominated Islamic bonds in the
second half of 2011, the bank’s chairman said Sept. 29. The bank
has not decided on the size of the bond, he said.  AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC.  is planning its first
debt offering since its bailout two years ago as the insurer
moves toward independence from the U.S. government, Chairman
Steve Miller said Sept. 29.  TURKIYE IS BANKASI AS , a Turkish bank, applied to Turkey’s
capital markets regulator to sell dollar-denominated bonds
abroad, according to a filing with the Istanbul Stock Exchange.  AEGIS LTD., an outsourcing unit of Essar Group, may sell
the first non-convertible dollar bonds from an Indian
information technology company. The company, which bought
PeopleSupport Inc. in 2008, may sell its bonds as part of a
financing package that would include a loan of as much as $350
million to consolidate debt, Chief Financial Officer C.M. Sharma
said.  GATX CORP ., a Chicago-based company that leases railroad
cars and other equipment, filed a shelf registration with the
Securities and Exchange Commission to sell debt securities and
pass-through certificates. The debt securities may be senior or
subordinated, according to the filing.  JSW STEEL LTD , India’s third-largest steelmaker, plans to
sell dollar bonds for the first time in three years and as
rupee-denominated finance costs rise. JSW has applied for credit
ratings before a possible offshore bond sale to help build a 200
billion rupee ($4.3 billion) steel and power plant in West
Bengal, Chief Financial Officer  Seshagiri Rao  said.  ARGENTINA may sell $1 billion of bonds due in 2017, El
Cronista newspaper reported, without saying how it obtained the
information. The government is also planning to offer an
exchange for dollar bonds due in 2011 and 2012, the Buenos
Aires-based publication said.  RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORP., India’s state-owned lender to
power projects, may sell as much as $300 million of bonds in
U.S. dollars, Finance Director  Hari Das Khunteta  said in a
telephone interview. Rural Electrification plans to raise $500
million from debt sales in the year ending March 31, he had said
on April 16.  CZECH REPUBLIC plans to sell as much as $2 billion of
dollar bonds to diversify from koruna and euro debt,  Eduard Janota , former finance minister, said in an interview for Mlada
Fronta Dnes  newspaper .  POTASH CORPORATION OF SASKATCHEWAN INC. , the world’s
largest fertilizer company by capacity, filed a registration
statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for
$2 billion of debt securities.  INDONESIA plans to name three banks to help it sell about
$650 million of Islamic bonds,  Dahlan Siamat , director for
Islamic financing at the finance ministry, said in a telephone
interview in Jakarta. The government sold its first
international Islamic dollar bonds in April 2009.  JORDAN plans to sell about $500 million of bonds, Finance
Minister Mohammad Abu Hammour said in an interview on June 23.
The sale will be denominated in U.S. dollars “as it’s a stable
currency and the Jordanian dinar is pegged to it,” Abu Hammour
said.  URUGUAY may sell as much as $1 billion of bonds in 2011,
including $500 million of dollar-denominated debt,  Carlos Steneri , director of public credit at Uruguay’s Ministry of
Economy and Finance, said June 3 at a Latin Finance conference
in London. The dollar-denominated bonds may have a maturity of
20 years or more, Steneri said.  MALAYSIA plans to raise about $1 billion from its first
sale of conventional dollar bonds in eight years after drawing
bids for five times the Islamic debt it offered, a finance
ministry official said. The government may hire banks including
CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. and HSBC Holdings Plc to arrange the
sale by Sept. 30, said the official, who declined to be named as
the discussions are private. Malaysia raised $1.25 billion from
a Shariah-compliant dollar bond on May 27. Malaysia is rated A3
by Moody’s and A- by S&P.  GHANA is considering selling its second dollar bond in 2011
to tap investor demand as the start-up of oil production boosts
economic growth and narrows the budget deficit, Deputy Finance
Minister  Fifi Kwetey  said. The government was considering a
“no-deal roadshow” to gauge international investors’ appetite,
Kwetey said in a May 26 interview in Abidjan. Ghana sold its
first global bond in 2007, raising $750 million to help fund the
construction of roads and power plants.  ANGOLA received credit ratings from Moody’s, S&P, and Fitch
Ratings that put it on par with Nigeria, Lebanon and Belarus,
and paved the way for a planned sale of international bonds. The
southern African nation’s creditworthiness was rated at B+ by
S&P and Fitch, four levels below investment grade. Moody’s
assigned an equivalent ranking of B1.  MONGOLIA plans to raise $500 million selling bonds in 2010
and the remainder of a planned $1.2 billion program will be sold
according to market conditions,  Batbayar Balgan , director
general of the financial and economic policy department of
Mongolia, said at a forum in Ulan Bator on June 16. The
government scaled back its plans for global bond sales after
Europe’s debt crisis drove up borrowing costs. Investment banks
are advising Mongolia to issue debt with maturities of 5 years
to 10 years, Finance Minister Sangajav Bayartsogt said in a Feb.
9 interview. The securities may yield 8 percent to 11 percent,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sapna Maheshwari  at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 