-- University of Massachusetts Build Americas Face Glut of Bonds: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l
-- 2010-10-21T04:01:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/university-of-mass-build-america-bonds-face-buyer-s-market-muni-credit.html
The University of  Massachusetts ,
which enrolls more than 58,000 students on its five campuses, is
selling $438 million in Build America Bonds through its Building
Authority as taxable issuance reached an 18-month high.  The federally subsidized securities are part of today’s
record $568 million sale by the college, which will boost its
debt load by 24 percent to $2.4 billion, according to
preliminary offering documents. About $126 million will be sold
as tax-exempts, with another $3 million in traditional taxables.
The bonds, which are being sold competitively, are rated third-
highest at Aa2 and AA by Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch
Ratings, respectively.  More than $4.8 billion in taxable debt is being marketed
this week, the  highest level  since April 2009, including about
$2.5 in Build Americas, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The university may need to increase yields because there is so
much competition, said  John Flahive , Boston-based director of
fixed income for BNY Mellon Wealth Management.  “It’s a buyer’s market, no doubt about it,” said Flahive,
who helps manage about $20 billion in municipal bonds. “Buyers
can afford to be a lot more discerning with the types of credits
and spreads, in an environment where there’s plenty to choose
from.”  New York City’s  Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority ,
which carries identical ratings, competitively sold $280 million
in revenue-backed Build Americas yesterday, with 30-year
securities priced to yield 5.55 percent, or 165 basis points
above benchmark  U.S. Treasuries . A basis point is 0.01 of a
percentage point.  Previous Sale  The university’s previous Build America sale, a $272
million issue in October 2009, offered 30-year debt priced to
yield 6.57 percent, or 230 basis points above Treasuries due in
August 2039. The so-called spread was 181 basis points Oct. 19,
the most recent trade, according to Municipal Securities
Rulemaking Board data.  “We’re confident it will be successful and attract a lot
of attention,” Building Authority Chief Financial Officer Steve
Dansby said in a telephone interview. “If it comes in anywhere
close to where our financial adviser is suggesting, it will be a
very attractive deal.”  Dansby declined comment on the spread forecast.  Housing, Marine Sciences  Proceeds from today’s sale will help finance a $4.5 billion
capital plan university trustees approved for fiscal years 2011
through 2015, offering documents show. Projects include a new
academic building at the Boston campus, new student housing in
Amherst and a marine sciences building in Dartmouth, according
to a report by Moody’s, which assigned a stable outlook.  “The university’s broad position within the commonwealth,
status as a flagship system, and importance in the public higher
education system of the commonwealth provide a strong
underpinning to its market position,”  Kimberly Tuby  and  John Nelson  wrote.  Build America Bonds, the fastest-growing part of the $2.8
trillion U.S. municipal debt market, were first sold in April
2009 as part of the economic-stimulus package and include a 35
percent federal subsidy on interest-rate costs. Legislation
introduced by Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus  would
extend the program, which expires Dec. 31, by one year with the
subsidy reduced to 32 percent. Previous extension attempts
stalled in Congress. About $147 billion have been issued to
date.  “We targeted October for our financing, theorizing a rush
to issue BABs” before the 35 percent subsidy expired, Dansby
said. “Apparently a number of people had the same idea.”  Following are descriptions of pending sales of municipal
debt in the U.S.:  NEW YORK CITY TRANSITIONAL FINANCE AUTHORITY , the agency
that funds a portion of the city’s capital projects, will sell
$750 million in taxable and tax-exempt debt next week. The offer
includes $620 million in Build America Bonds, which will be
issued in a negotiated sale. Underwriters led by Morgan Stanley
will market the issue. TFA also plans to sell $100 million of
taxable bonds via competitive bid. The securities are top rated
by Standard & Poor’s and Fitch, and graded Aa1 by Moody’s,
second-highest. (Added Oct. 19)  LOWER COLORADO RIVER AUTHORITY, which manages electricity
generation in a region around the longest river to begin and end
in Texas, is selling $373 million in revenue-backed tax-exempts
today to refinance existing debt. Underwriters led by Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. will market the debt, which is rated fifth-
highest at A1 by Moody’s and A+ by Fitch, and A by S&P, one
level lower. (Added Oct. 21)  MISSISSIPPI , the 15th-most indebted state per capita, plans
to sell about $651 million in taxable bonds today, including
$371.7 million in Build Americas and $45 million in Recovery
Zone Economic Development Bonds. The debt will be used to
finance highway and bridge construction and tourism projects.
Underwriters led by Morgan Stanley will market the subsidized
debt, while Bank of America Merrill Lynch will handle the
traditional taxables. The offering is rated Aa2 by Moody’s and
AA by S&P, both third-highest and one level below Fitch’s AA+
rating. (Updated Oct. 21)  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 