-- Hunter Valley Coal-Seam Gas Plan Sparks Protest at AGL Meeting in Sydney
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2010-10-21T07:26:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/hunter-valley-coal-seam-gas-plan-sparks-protest-at-agl-meeting-in-sydney.html
AGL Energy Ltd. ’s plan for a coal-
bed methane project in Australia’s wine-growing and coal-mining
Hunter Valley region sparked a protest outside its annual
shareholders meeting in Sydney.  Dozens of protesters holding placards and chanting slogans
handed flyers to shareholders arriving at the City Recital Hall
for today’s meeting. Two days ago,  Origin Energy Ltd . said it
found traces of chemical contaminants at eight coal-seam gas
exploration wells in the state of Queensland.  Among the opponents was  Macquarie Group Ltd . Non-Executive
Chairman  David Clarke , who owns a home and winery in the
Hunter Valley community of Broke. “I became increasingly
concerned the more I looked into this,” he said by phone from
Sydney. “Clearly there are environmental and health risks.”  The Origin and  ConocoPhillips  venture in Queensland, which
aims to liquefy gas taken from coal seams for export, detected
benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene and xylene -- known as BTEX, the
Sydney-based company said Oct. 19.  AGL doesn’t use the chemicals when extracting gas from coal
seams and hasn’t found any BTEX traces in its operations, Chief
Executive Officer  Michael Fraser  said today.  The Hunter Valley Protection Alliance, a group based in
Broke, attracted about 100 people to today’s protest, said John
Thomson, who leads the organization.  “As we’ve seen in Queensland, there are question marks for
this industry,” Thomson said. The Hunter Valley Protection
Alliance is concerned there isn’t enough oversight to protect
“agricultural land, the vineyards and tourism” from potential
environmental harm caused by the gas exploration, he said.  Environment Minister Tony Burke is due tomorrow to decide
whether to approve Queensland coal-seam gas ventures proposed by
 BG Group Plc  and  Santos Ltd .  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 