-- UPS Profit Tops Analysts' Estimates on Global Economic Pickup
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2010-10-21T20:14:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/ups-profit-tops-analysts-estimates-as-global-shipping-gains-amid-recovery.html
United Parcel Service Inc. , the
world’s largest package-delivery company, raised its annual
forecast after posting an 80 percent gain in quarterly profit,
topping analysts’ estimates as international shipments rose.  Third-quarter net income advanced to $991 million, or 99
cents a share, the Atlanta-based company said today in a
statement. Excluding a gain on a real estate sale, profit was 93
cents, exceeding the 88-cent average of 21 estimates in a
 Bloomberg survey .  Shipments from Europe and Asia outpaced gains in the U.S.,
where the economic recovery is slow. UPS said it expects
“modest growth” during the peak holiday shipping season
between Thanksgiving and Christmas, and is benefiting from lower
costs in the U.S. after cutting jobs and merging regional
divisions.  “The economy continues to improve, and their cost-cutting
is really helping and that will continue to deliver more
earnings,” said  David Campbell , an analyst at Thompson Davis &
Co. in Richmond, Virginia, who recommends buying the shares.  UPS fell 6 cents to $69.59 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite  trading . The shares have advanced 21 percent
this year.  Revenue increased 9.3 percent to $12.2 billion last
quarter. Analysts estimated $12.4 billion. Profit was $549
million, or 55 cents a share, a year earlier.  UPS raised its full-year  profit forecast  to as much as
$3.54 a share, from $3.35 to $3.45 previously. The average
estimate by analysts was $3.47. On that basis, profit was $2.30
a share in 2009.  ‘Little More Cautious’  U.S. gross domestic product will rise 2.6 percent this year
and next, according to the median of 46 economists surveyed by
the National Association for Business Economics from Sept. 2 to
Sept. 21. A May poll projected growth of 3.2 percent for both
years.  UPS is a “little more cautious” with its expectations for
the peak season than it was a couple months ago because of mixed
signals from customers and more conservative estimates among
economists for gross domestic product growth this quarter, Chief
Financial Officer  Kurt Kuehn  said today in a telephone
interview.  “The economy tempers us a bit, but in general we feel
pretty good,” Kuehn said.  UPS said average daily domestic volume rose 3.6 percent in
the third quarter while international surged 13 percent, led by
Asia. The company and smaller FedEx Corp. deliver goods ranging
from clothing to industrial parts and pharmaceuticals, making
them economic bellwethers.  Medical Equipment  Technology products and devices, and medical equipment and
pharmaceuticals are the strongest sectors right now, Kuehn said.
There is also “some recovery” with financial documents such as
mortgage paperwork, he said.  More health-related companies are using UPS to streamline
their supply chain, improve inventory management and stocking,
and house replacement parts for equipment such as magnetic-
resonance-imaging machines, he said. UPS this month started a
new advertising campaign with the tagline “We (heart)
Logistics” to promote those services.  “With the increased focus on cost control, it’s a very
productive arrangement,” Kuehn said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Jane Credeur  in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 