-- Murdoch, Trying to Buy BSkyB, Urges U.K. to Promote Competition
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2010-10-21T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/murdoch-trying-to-buy-bskyb-urges-u-k-to-promote-competition.html
Rupert Murdoch  urged the U.K.
government to encourage innovation and competition among
companies, as his own News Corp. seeks regulatory approval to
buy all of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc .  Paying homage to former Prime Minister  Margaret Thatcher  in
a speech in London today, Murdoch, who attended university in
the U.K., called on government to reward those who take risks
and to give citizens the tools to succeed.  News Corp.  has offered 7.8 billion pounds ($12.3 billion)
for the remaining 39 percent stake in BSkyB, a move that
prompted a letter signed by the British Broadcasting Corp. and
owners of newspapers including the Daily Telegraph and the
Guardian calling for the bid to be challenged by the U.K.
government.  “Many of the defining moments of my career have been in
Britain,” Murdoch said. “This includes fundamentally changing
the newspaper industry in the 1980s -- which has helped give us
all the uniquely vigorous press we enjoy today.”  Murdoch said competition should be encouraged and
restrictions are too often imposed on growth at successful
“upstarts.”  “That’s an issue for my company,” he said. “These are
the small thinkers who believe their job is to cut the cake up
rather than make it bigger.”  News Corp. is trying to ward off a potential challenge from
U.K. Business Secretary  Vince Cable  over concerns the New York-
based company may harm the public interest by expanding its
control of U.K. media outlets, antitrust lawyers, including
 Gustaf Duhs  at Stevens & Bolton LLP, have said.  ‘Government With Backbone’  The objection may put the coalition government of Prime
Minister David Cameron in a quandary. Murdoch’s newspaper the
Sun, which is the country’s biggest tabloid, backed Cameron’s
Conservative Party in Britain’s May general election.  “A free society also requires a government with
backbone,” Murdoch said today.  He also praised the journalists who work at his papers,
including the London Times, News of the World and Wall Street
Journal. “We will vigorously pursue the truth -- and we will
not tolerate wrongdoing,” Murdoch said.  London’s Metropolitan Police on Sept. 6 said it will
examine new evidence of phone-hacking by journalists at the News
of the World detailed in a report in the New York Times. It is
the second time police and prosecutors have reviewed the case
following media reports.  The News of the World’s former royal reporter,  Clive Goodman,  and  Glenn Mulcaire , a private investigator, were jailed
in 2007 for tapping the mobile phones of prominent people after
a previous police investigation.  Murdoch’s speech was delivered at London’s Centre for
Policy Studies, a think-tank which Thatcher founded in the early
1970s with former Cabinet minister Keith Joseph.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kristen Schweizer  in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net . 