-- Valeo Raises Forecast for Margins on Strong Auto Supply Market in Asia
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 2010-10-21T17:34:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/valeo-raises-forecast-for-margins-on-strong-auto-supply-market-in-asia.html
Valeo SA , France’s second-largest
auto-parts supplier, raised its operating-margin forecast after
third-quarter sales rose 22 percent on increased global demand.  The operating margin in the second half and full year will
beat the first-half figure of 6.1 percent, Chief Executive
Officer  Jacques Andre Aschenbroich  said on a conference call
today.  Valeo  previously raised its full-year margin forecast to
“more than 5 percent” on July 27. Revenue advanced to 2.34
billion euros ($3.27 billion) from 1.91 billion euros a year
earlier, Paris-based Valeo said in a statement today.  Third-quarter global automotive production rose 12 percent
year-on-year to 17.4 million vehicles, exceeding the “pre-
crisis level,” Valeo said. “This performance is mainly due to
the dynamic Asian market, particularly the Chinese market,”
with 3.7 million vehicles in the third quarter of 2010, Valeo
said. Automotive production in Europe and in North America
remained “lower than the pre-crisis level for this period.”  Valeo, whose products include headlamps, hands-free parking
devices and “stop-and-start” systems for saving fuel, is
sharpening its focus on vehicle safety, comfort and fuel
efficiency as it pursues a 30 percent overall  return on capital 
by 2013. It also aims to double revenue from fuel-saving
technologies to 1 billion euros by that date.  Acquisitions  Valeo has the means to make  acquisitions , though the
priority is organic growth, Aschenbroich said on the call.  “Organic growth is the essential element for us,” he
said. “We’ve showed over the last five, six halves that we can
grow faster than the market and win big orders.”  Second-half sales will be “in line” with those of the
first half, with revenue “higher than 9.4 billion euros in the
full year,” the company predicted.  The second-half operating margin will be “slightly”
higher than in the first half, and the company will generate
cash flow of “around 100 million euros” in the second half,
giving a free cash flow of about 400 million euros for the full
year, or net cash flow generation of about 340 million euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrea Rothman  in Toulouse, France, at   aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  