-- Vedanta Refinery Expansion Plan Rejected by India Citing Forestry Rules
-- B y   A b h i j i t   R o y   C h o w d h u r y   a n d   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2010-10-21T10:11:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/vedanta-refinery-expansion-plan-rejected-by-india-citing-forestry-rules.html
Vedanta Resources Plc ’s proposal to
start an $8.5 billion expansion of its aluminum complex in India
was rejected by the Environment Ministry today, citing
violations of forestry laws.  The  ministry  ordered the London-based company to not begin
any new construction at the site and placed conditions on the
running of its current 1 million metric ton alumina refinery at
Lanjigarh in the eastern state of Orissa, the notice said. A
proposal to raise the capacity of a dedicated power plant to 300
megawatts from 75 megawatts was also denied.  Vedanta, controlled by billionaire  Anil Agarwal , won
approval from the Orissa government on Aug. 10 to expand the
refinery capacity to six million tons. Two weeks later, the
Environment Ministry said Vedanta’s refinery may be sourcing
bauxite from mines without environmental approvals and asked
Vedanta to justify why the permit for the refinery should not be
canceled.  “The rejection won’t have a major impact,”  Mukesh Kumar ,
chief operating officer of Vedanta Aluminium Ltd., the company’s
Indian unit, said today in an interview to Bloomberg UTV. “The
availability of raw material won’t be an issue,” he said,
without elaborating.  Vedanta  fell as much as 1.4 percent to 2,199 pence in
London and traded at 2,228 pence as of 9:59 a.m. local time. The
shares have declined 15 percent this year, compared with a 6
percent gain in the benchmark FTSE 100 Index.  Investment Cut  Vedanta will cut its investments by as much as $2 billion
in the next two years after failing to get clearance to mine
bauxite at the Niyamgiri hills near the site of its refinery,
Chief Executive Officer  Mahendra Singh Mehta  said Oct. 7. The
capital expenditure revision “will have an impact of between
$1.5 billion and $2 billion,” Mehta said, adding the numbers
were tentative.  The plan to mine bauxite, which would help cut Vedanta’s
raw-material costs, was rejected by the Environment Ministry on
Aug. 24, saying it would endanger the lives of the Dongaria
Kondh and the Kutia Kondh tribes, who depend on the hills and
forest for their livelihood. The tribal people had been opposing
the company’s mining plans for more than four years.  The ministry’s notice today follows a Sept. 28 court
directive to Vedanta unit Sterlite Industries (India) Ltd. to
shutter its only copper smelter in the country for breaching
environmental standards. Sterlite, which appealed against the
order to India’s highest court, won a reprieve on Oct. 18 to run
the facility until mid-December, pending clarifications on steps
taken to dump solid waste from the plant.  Vedanta is also awaiting the government’s approval for unit
Sesa Goa Ltd., India’s largest iron ore exporter, to make an
open offer for 20 percent in Cairn India Ltd., an oil
exploration company. In August, Vedanta announced plans to buy
as much as 60 percent of Cairn India for $9.6 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Abhijit Roy Chowdhury  in New Delhi at 
 achowdhury11@bloomberg.net ;
 Abhishek Shanker  in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs in Sydney at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  