-- VTB Asset Sale Wins Over Bond Market as Sberbank Debt Rises: Russia Credit
-- B y   E m m a   O ’ B r i e n   a n d   D e n i s   M a t e r n o v s k y
-- 2010-10-22T08:04:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/vtb-asset-sale-wins-over-bond-market-as-sberbank-debt-rises-russia-credit.html
Russia’s $59 billion asset sale
program is stoking the biggest rally in  VTB Group bonds  since
July and sending OAO Sberbank yields to record lows on
speculation disclosure will improve with less state control.  VTB’s dollar notes due in 2018 jumped the most since July 8
yesterday and yields on Sberbank notes maturing next year traded
at the lowest since they were issued in 2006, after the
government unveiled plans this week to sell stakes in Russia’s
two largest lenders. The state may give up control of VTB within
three years and plans to reduce its Sberbank holding by 2014,
First Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Shuvalov  said Oct. 20.  “A serious privatization push would be positive for all
Russian assets,” said  Paul McNamara , who oversees $4.5 billion
of emerging-market debt, including Russian corporate bonds, at
Augustus Asset Management Ltd. in London. “It will outweigh the
problems caused by a lack of state ownership.”  Two decades after the fall of communism, the world’s
biggest energy exporter is selling shares in 900 state companies
to help plug its  budget deficit  as Russia seeks to reduce
dependence on commodities. Bondholders demand higher yields from
Russia than lower-rated Brazil, Colombia and the Philippines, in
part because of concerns over the former Soviet nation’s
reliance on energy sales and corporate transparency.  Energy Exports  Energy accounts for about 75 percent of Russian exports to
the Baltics and countries outside the former Soviet Union,
government data show. Russia ranks 146th on Transparency
International’s least corrupt nations list, worse than Brazil,
India, China and Turkey.  “VTB is often criticized for the fact that the state is
allegedly interfering in the bank’s business, even though this
is not really happening,”  Herbert Moos , deputy chairman of VTB
Group in Moscow, said in a phone interview yesterday. “Bringing
in investors, chiefly foreign, to our board will undoubtedly
affect our profitability and effectiveness in a positive way.”  An official at Moscow-based Sberbank, who wouldn’t be
identified in line with the bank’s policy, declined to comment
on the effect of a reduced government shareholding on the
lender’s debt.  The government, which owns 85.5 percent of Moscow-based
 VTB , plans to sell a 10 percent stake this year, another 10
percent next year, and a further 10 to 15 percent in 2012,
Shuvalov said. Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s government is
also ready to “discuss the possibility” of cutting its
holdings in the nation’s second-largest bank to less than a
controlling stake of 50 percent plus one share within three
years, he said. VTB shares, which closed at their highest since
May 2008 yesterday, slipped 0.3 percent to 9.9 kopeks by 10:35
a.m. in Moscow today.  Shares Surge  Russia  owns  60.3 percent of Sberbank, the country’s biggest
lender, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The state may sell more
than the planned 9 percent stake, Shuvalov told reporters in
Moscow on Oct. 12 after a meeting with foreign investors.
Sberbank’s shares surged to their highest since January 2008
yesterday, and were little changed at 103.20 rubles today.  The government also plans to offer as much as 15 percent of
 OAO Rosneft , Russia’s largest oil producer, along with stakes in
OAO Aeroflot, the national carrier, OAO Rostelecom, the main
long-distance phone company, OAO Sovcomflot, Russia’s biggest
shipper, and  OAO Russian Railways , the state-owned rail
monopoly. Shares of  OAO Transneft , Russia’s oil pipeline
monopoly, fell to the lowest in a week after Shuvalov cut it
from the list of companies the Finance Ministry issued in July.  Budget Gap  The sales will help the government narrow its budget gap to
1.8 trillion rubles ($59 billion) next year, Shuvalov said. The
deficit will amount to 3.6 percent of gross domestic product
next year compared with 5.3 percent this year, according to
government forecasts.  Bondholders demand higher yields from Sberbank and VTB than
from  Itau Unibanco Holding SA , Brazil’s largest lender by market
value, which is rated one step lower. Sao Paulo-based Itau’s
dollar bonds due next year yielded an average 2.54 percent this
year compared with 2.9 percent for Sberbank’s 2011 notes, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The cost of protecting Russian state debt against non-
payment for five years using credit-default swaps fell three
basis points to 133.5 yesterday, down from this year’s peak of
217, according to prices from CMA. The contracts pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a government or company fail to adhere to its
debt agreements.  Default Swaps  Credit-default swaps for Russia cost 2.5 basis points less
than contracts for Turkey, which is rated four levels lower at
Ba2. Russian swaps  cost  as much as 40 basis points less on April
20.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries fell one basis point to 203
yesterday, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ indexes.
The difference compares with 153 for debt of similarly rated
Mexico and 185 for Brazil, which is rated two steps lower at
Baa3 by Moody’s, 175 for the Philippines and 164 for Colombia.  The so-called  yield   spread  on Russian bonds is 55 basis
points below the average for emerging markets, down from a 15-
month high of 105 in February, according to JPMorgan indexes.  The yield on Russia’s dollar bonds due in 2020 fell one
basis point today to 4.30 percent, 15 basis points short of a
record low. The yield on the country’s ruble notes due in August
2016 was unchanged at 7.14 percent.  Bonds Rally  Sberbank dollar bonds due 2017 rose for the first day in
six yesterday, pushing the yield down two basis points to 5.38
percent, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The yield
dropped six basis points to 5.32 percent today. The yield on
Sberbank’s 2011 dollar bonds slid 27 basis points to a record-
low 2.04 percent today.  VTB bonds maturing in 2015 yielded 5.25 percent yesterday,
down 10 basis points, in the biggest decline since Oct. 6, and
traded at 5.28 percent today. The yield on debt due in 2018 fell
for the first day in six yesterday, sliding nine basis points to
5.83 percent, the largest drop since July 8, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The yield was at 5.86 percent today.  The government isn’t talking about definitely giving up
control of either VTB or Sberbank, which means their “quasi-
sovereign status will not be affected while the entrance of new
shareholders may improve governance,”  Dmitry Dudkin , head of
fixed income research in Moscow at UralSib Financial Corp., said
in an e-mail interview yesterday.  Controlling Stake  “I don’t think losing the sovereign guarantee makes a huge
difference,” said  Jerome Booth , who helps manage $35 billion in
emerging market assets as head of research at Ashmore Investment
Management Ltd. in London. “If the asset was strategic
beforehand, it’s going to continue to be strategic, and if it
wasn’t it won’t be. I don’t think it fundamentally affects the
credit quality.”  Russia will retain a controlling stake in Sberbank for the
next five years, Deputy Finance Minister  Alexei Savatyugin  told
reporters in Moscow yesterday. VTB’s ties with the government
won’t be severed by a reduction in its stake as “no one is
saying” they’ll be giving up their investment altogether, VTB’s
Moos said.  Sberbank’s “importance to the economy” means it would
still receive state assistance in the event of a default,
 Guenter Schwabl , a fund manager at Erste Sparinvest KAG, which
holds the equivalent of about $171 million of emerging-market
corporate bonds, including Sberbank debt, said by phone
yesterday from Vienna.  Crude Oil  The asset sale program is part of Putin’s initiative to
build investor support after last year’s record economic
contraction triggered the country’s first budget deficit in 10
years. Oil and natural gas earnings make up about 25 percent of
the economic output of Russia, the world’s largest energy
exporter. Crude prices have gained 1.6 percent so far this year,
compared with a 78 percent surge in 2009, Bloomberg data show.  The Micex index, the chief platform for trade of Russian
equities and bonds, is instituting reforms to make it easier for
foreign investors to buy and sell securities, and the  central
bank  is loosening its control on the ruble as it moves closer to
a flexible exchange rate and inflation targeting regime by 2012.  Credit ratings for both VTB and Sberbank will be positively
affected by the reduction in state control,  Yaroslav Sovgyra , a
senior analyst at Moody’s Investors Service, said in an
interview in Moscow yesterday. Sberbank and VTB share the same
Baa1 credit rating as Russian sovereign debt at Moody’s.  “The impact on corporate governance is unquestionably
positive,” Sovgyra said. Privatization “will affect the banks’
standalone ratings which are low partly because of
inefficiencies in management,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Emma O’Brien  in Moscow at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
 Denis Maternovsky  in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 