-- Wal-Mart to Begin Selling Kobo Digital E-Reader in U.S. Stores Next Week
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2010-10-21T20:08:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/wal-mart-to-begin-selling-kobo-digital-e-reader-in-u-s-stores-next-week.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  will begin
selling Kobo Inc. digital book readers at U.S. stores next week,
as the world’s largest retailer boosts its hand-held electronic
offerings.  Kobo, owned by  Indigo Books & Music Inc.  and  Borders Group
Inc. , will have its wireless Internet e-reader model sold in
2,500 Wal-Mart stores as early as Oct. 24, Chief Executive
Officer  Michael Serbinis  said in an interview. Kobo devices
entered the U.S market in August at Borders stores and have been
on sale at Wal-Mart in Canada since May.  “Borders is a household brand name in the U.S. and there
are millions of booklovers who go to Borders, but not all books
get bought at bookstores,” Serbinis said. “It’s important to
have retail distribution outside bookstores.”  Indigo and Borders, the second-largest U.S. bookstore
chain, invested in Kobo to take part in the growing digital book
market. Indigo, the Toronto-based chain, has a majority stake in
Kobo, which it spun off as a separate company last year. Borders
owns about 20 percent of Kobo.  Wal-Mart will also begin selling Barnes & Noble Inc.’s Nook
e-reading device next week, according to a statement today. Wal-
Mart started offering  Apple Inc.’s  iPad, which can read digital
books, earlier this month.  Borders, based in Ann Arbor, Michigan,  fell  7 cents, or 5.3
percent, to $1.25 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. Indigo gained 29 cents to C$14.81 on the Toronto Stock
Exchange. Barnes & Noble, based in New York, rose 7 cents to
$14.78.  Kobo has more than 1 million customers downloading digital
books from over 200 countries, Serbinis said. The e-readers are
also sold in Australia and New Zealand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Townsend  in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  