-- Tanzanian Amassed Generators, Batteries Before Embassy Blast, Witness Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2010-10-22T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/witness-says-bombing-defendant-ghailani-amassed-items-before-kenya-blast.html
A Tanzanian on trial in New York was
identified by a witness as one of three men who amassed
generators and truck batteries just before the 1998 bombings of
two U.S. embassy bombings in Africa.  Ahmed Ghailani , the first Guantanamo Bay detainee to be
prosecuted in a U.S. civilian court, is charged with helping to
buy a Nissan truck used by members of an al-Qaeda cell to bomb
the U.S. embassy in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, on Aug. 7, 1998.
That attack and an almost-simultaneous bombing at the U.S.
embassy in Nairobi, Kenya, killed 224 people, including 12 U.S.
citizens.  Wilson Maganga, 36, a mechanic, testified yesterday at the
federal trial in Manhattan that he repairs vehicles in Mombasa,
Kenya, primarily outside a clothing store that was owned in 1998
by the family of another alleged bomber,  Fahid Mohammed Ally Msalam . Maganga said that after the shop closed in 1997, he saw
Ghailani visit the shuttered store in the months leading up to
the attacks with a third bombing suspect, Sheikh Swedan.  “First I saw them come there with boat engines, then a
machine that provides electricity,” Maganga said, speaking in
Swahili through an interpreter. “Much later, they came with
large vehicle batteries.”  Ghailani, 36, faces 224 counts of murder for the death toll
in the attacks and may be sentenced to life in prison if
convicted. He has pleaded not guilty. His lawyers have said he
didn’t knowingly participate in the attacks and was “duped” by
more worldly friends who fled Africa after the attacks.  ‘I See One’  Maganga testified that about two weeks before the bombings,
he saw Swedan and Ally carry three batteries which he said were
about 2 1/2 feet wide, and required two people to lift them,
into the building. He said he saw Ghailani carry other items.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Sean Buckley asked Maganga if he
ever saw any of the three men after the bombings.  “I haven’t ever seen them, except for now I see one,” he
said, gesturing toward Ghailani.  Swedan and Ally were killed last year in Pakistan by
unmanned military drones, the Washington Post reported in
January.  Ghailani’s jury previously heard from a Tanzanian battery
salesman who testified that Swedan bought two batteries of the
type used in very large trucks. Jurors also heard testimony from
a Tanzanian welder who said Swedan had him modify and reinforce
the interior compartments of a Nissan Atlas refrigeration truck,
the vehicle the government has tried to link to Ghailani.  Prosecutors say Ghailani and his accomplices loaded the
compartments in the rear of the truck with about 20 large metal
tanks filled with acetylene and oxygen, which the government
says was intended “to increase the fire bomb.”  ‘My Handiwork’  In court, prosecutors displayed several large iron bars
recovered from the Tanzania blast. The welder, Julius Temo,
pointed to a metal bar the length of a yardstick which had four
channeled prongs welded into it.  “This is my handiwork here,” Temo said. “Welding is like
handwriting, you always recognize your own work.”  Ghailani was captured in Pakistan in July 2004 and held by
the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency where he was subjected to
“enhanced interrogation techniques,” the U.S. has said.  He was taken to Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, in September 2006 and
transferred to federal court in New York last year, after the
Obama administration said it planned to close Guantanamo and try
some terrorism suspects held there in civilian courts.  Four of Ghailani’s alleged co-conspirators were convicted
at a 2001 civilian trial.  The trial resumes Oct. 25.  The case is U.S. v. Ghailani, 98-cr-01023, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 