-- `It's Like the Matrix:' Twitter May Help Read Investors' Minds
-- B y   N i c k   G e n t l e
-- 2010-10-21T10:22:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/twitter-analysis-reads-investors-minds-can-predict-stock-market-swings.html
The millions of messages sent daily
via Twitter Inc. can help predict moves in the Dow Jones
Industrial Average by signaling  sentiment , researchers at 
Indiana University and the University of Manchester said.  By scouring tweets for key words and analyzing them using
an algorithm they developed to divine the mood of Twitterers,
Johan Bollen, Huina Mao and Xiao-Jun Zeng said they were able to
predict the daily up and down movements of the Dow during a
period in 2008 with 87 percent accuracy. Now they are testing
whether their results can be applied to real-time data.  “So far we have observed that some of the parameters may
change over time but that our conclusion that Twitter mood data
can predict fluctuations in the stock market will stand,” said
Indiana University’s Bollen in an e-mail interview. “We feel
that we have merely uncovered the tip of the proverbial
iceberg.”  The research suggests that Twitter analysis could provide a
cheap way to improve results of other computer models that use
news events and other publicly available data to anticipate how
investors will act. The data may even predict to some extent the
magnitude of stock market moves, Bollen said.  “It feels a little like the Matrix,” said  Christian Kielland , a managing director at BTIG Hong Kong Ltd. “I
definitely wouldn’t discount it. Without a doubt, sentiment and
psychology are huge factors in trying to predict markets.”  Flash Crash  Automated programs that trade on information other than
price have been blamed in part for the May 6 “flash crash”
that wiped $862 billion off the U.S. market. A June 2 plunge in
the shares of Diebold Inc. may also have been triggered when an
item of year-old news was misinterpreted by the growing army of
computers that search for financial information, analyze it and
trade instantly without human involvement, market analysts said.  Bollen’s team outlined their findings in a paper published
Oct. 14 on arXiv.org, an on-line journal. The team trawled
through 9.9 million tweets using two tools, one called
 OpinionFinder  which sorts messages into either positive or
negative moods, and another from Google Inc., which classifies
text into six mood dimensions: calm, alert, sure, vital, kind,
and happy. While the OpinionFinder data was not very good at
predicting stock market movements, one of the Google dimensions,
calm, was excellent.  Mood Predicts Dow  “Changes of the public mood along these mood dimensions
match shifts in the DJIA values that occur three to four days
later,” the team said. “The aggregate of millions of tweets
submitted to Twitter at any given time may provide an accurate
representation of public mood and sentiment.”  Bollen said further research would be aimed at clarifying
the relationships between the mood dimensions and to develop
more formal models to predict how a change in the mood of
Twitterers can influence the  Dow .  “With more and more information out there and available in
the public space it makes sense for people to undertake this
sort of Matrix building,” said BTIG’s Kielland “It would hold
up better somewhere like the U.S. because a high proportion of
people there are actively involved in the market. So when all
those tweets are happening it’s more likely they are coming from
someone who holds some stocks or other investments.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nick Gentle  in Hong Kong at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net . 