-- Woodside Partly Dismantles Flare Towers at Pluto LNG to Fix Design Flaw
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2010-10-22T04:05:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/woodside-petroleum-reports-september-quarter-production-18-3-million-boe.html
Woodside Petroleum Ltd.  is
dismantling parts of towers used to burn off excess gas at the
A$13 billion ($12.7 billion) Pluto project before the cyclone
season because they don’t meet its design specifications.  Woodside, Australia’s second-largest oil and gas producer,
is evaluating Pluto’s cost and schedule and intends to release
the results in November, the company said in a quarterly
production report filed to the stock exchange today.  The first stage of the Pluto liquefied natural gas venture
in Western Australia was 94 percent complete at the end of
September, Perth-based Woodside said. Pluto is expected to start
by the end of February, with first LNG exports heading to Asia
set for the end of March, the company said in August.  “If anything, the market is more concerned about the
future of Pluto,” rather than the initial phase of the project,
 Xavier Grunauer , an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Sydney,
said by telephone. “I would have hoped to see much stronger
success in the exploration program -- otherwise people are not
going to believe Pluto 2 is going to happen.”  An exploration campaign to support an expansion of the
Pluto development will continue into next year, the company said
today.  Woodside  said it remains in talks with other owners of
gas resources in the Carnarvon Basin to feed Pluto.  Woodside fell 1.6 percent to A$43.46 at 2:44 p.m. in Sydney
trading. The benchmark  S&P/ASX 200 Index  gained 0.3 percent.  The project is among A$200 billion of planned LNG ventures
in Australia seeking to meet forecast demand for cleaner-burning
alternatives to coal to curb emissions, according to the
Australian Petroleum Production and Exploration Association.  Wind-Loading Specs  Woodside Chief Executive Officer  Don Voelte  plans to retire
in the second half of 2011 after the Pluto development begins
production, the energy company said Oct. 13. Pluto is expected
to become the fastest LNG venture built, with the initial
discovery of the field in 2005, Woodside says on its website.  The design of Pluto’s onshore flare towers, chimneys used
to burn off excess or waste gas, doesn’t meet Woodside’s wind-
loading specifications, it said. This work was managed by an
engineering, procurement and construction contractor.  The structures are being partly dismantled to prepare for
the cyclone season and to take “corrective action,” Woodside
said, without saying whether the work would cause any delay.
Australia’s northwest typically has an average of five tropical
cyclones during the season running from November until April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Paton  in Sydney 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 