-- Xstrata Given 100 Megawatts by S. African Utility for Smelter
-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 2010-10-21T12:25:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/xstrata-given-100-megawatts-by-eskom-for-its-planned-710-million-smelter.html
Xstrata Plc , the largest ferrochrome
producer, has been allocated about 100 megawatts of electricity
capacity by South African power utility Eskom Holdings Ltd. for
the $710 million Lion II smelter it plans to build.  “Eskom has undertaken to provide 120 megavolt ampere,”
which is the total amount needed to run the smelter that will
produce 360,000 metric tons a year, Xstrata spokesman  Songezo Zibi  said by phone from Johannesburg today. That’s roughly equal
to a maximum of 100 megawatts at a time, which the company is
unlikely to use regularly as smelters rarely operate at full
capacity, he said.  Xstrata , based in Zug, Switzerland, is one of the five
largest electricity users in South Africa, where state-owned
Eskom, the largest power supplier, has warned of possible
shortages in the next few years as it expands to meet growing
demand. Power shortages shut some mines and smelters in South
Africa, the world’s biggest platinum and ferrochrome producer,
for about five days in early 2008.  The Swiss company had to prove its investment is “long-
term,” will create jobs and that its smelter will be energy
efficient before it was awarded the power allocation, Zibi said.
The start of production at Lion II, in South Africa’s Limpopo
province, is being timed to coincide with the completion of
Eskom’s 4,764 megawatt Medupi power plant’s first unit, Zibi
said. Xstrata said yesterday production could start in the first
half of 2013.  Xstrata is also investigating building its own 600 megawatt
coal-fired power plant, which would be built in four units of
150 megawatts each, Zibi said. The company’s alloys unit, which
comprises mainly of its South African ferrochrome operations,
uses about 1.1 gigawatt of power, he said.  Eskom’s maximum capacity is about 40,870 megawatts and a
gigawatt is a thousand megawatts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carli Lourens  in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net  