-- Yankees Beat Rangers 7-2 Behind Cano to Avoid Postseason Elimination
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-10-21T01:20:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/yankees-beat-rangers-7-2-behind-cano-to-avoid-postseason-elimination.html
Robinson Cano  and  Nick Swisher  hit
back-to-back home runs as the New York Yankees avoided
postseason elimination with a 7-2 win over the Texas Rangers.  Cano and Swisher hit solo home runs to start the third
inning, staking starting pitcher  CC Sabathia  to a 5-0 lead at
Yankee Stadium.  Curtis Granderson  added a solo home run and
Sabathia allowed two runs over six innings as the defending
 World Series champions  ended a three-game losing streak and
pulled within 3-2 in the American League Championship Series.  The best-of-seven series returns to Arlington, Texas, for
Game 6 on Oct. 22.  Phil Hughes  will be the Yankees’ starting
pitcher against the Rangers’  Colby Lewis . A decisive seventh
game, if necessary, would be Oct. 23 in Texas.  “It’s do or die,” Swisher said in a televised interview.
“We know if we lose, we’re done so we’re going out there and
we’re giving it everything we got and we’ll see where it takes
us.”  Since Major League Baseball went to a seven-game format for
the LCS in 1985, six of 30 teams to trail 3-1 have rallied to
make the World Series.  This was the first time the Yankees were behind 3-1 in a
best-of-seven postseason series since the 1958 World Series,
when they rallied to beat Milwaukee in seven games.  The San Francisco Giants host the Philadelphia Phillies
today in Game 4 of the National League Championship Series. The
Giants hold a 2-1 lead in the best-of-seven series after
yesterday’s 3-0 victory.  Yanks Strike Early  The Yankees, outscored by the Rangers 25-5 in losing the
previous three games, jumped out to a 3-0 second-inning lead.  Jorge Posada  and Granderson had run-scoring singles off
Texas starting pitcher  C.J. Wilson  following walks to  Alex Rodriguez  and  Lance Berkman . Two throwing miscues by the Rangers
allowed Posada to come home with the Yankees’ third run on
Granderson’s hit.  It was just the Yankees’ second multi-run inning of the
series, the other being their five-run eighth-inning rally to
win the opener 6-5.  Swisher and Cano hit consecutive home runs off Wilson to
put the Yankees up 5-0. It was the fourth homer of the series
for Cano, tying him with nine others for the most in an LCS.  “When it’s win or go home, you’ve got as much energy as
you need,” Cano said during a news conference.  Cano hit third in the Yankee lineup in place of  Mark Teixeira , who will miss the rest of the postseason after
straining his right hamstring in yesterday’s 10-3 Game 4 loss.
Berkman replaced Teixeira at first base.  Sabathia’s Effort  Matt Treanor  hit a solo home run for the Rangers leading
off the fifth inning. Sabathia escaped further damage in the
inning when he got  Josh Hamilton , who has four homers in the
series, to ground into a double play with two runners on base.  Berkman hit a sacrifice fly in the bottom of the fifth as
the Yankees regained a five-run lead.  Sabathia improved to 5-1 over the past two postseasons even
though he allowed 11 hits in six innings. After giving up a
second run on Treanor’s run-scoring groundout in the sixth, he
worked out of trouble by striking out  Mitch Moreland  with
runners on second and third.  ‘Wanted to Fight’  “Our backs were up against the wall today and I just
wanted to fight, no matter what the situation was,” Sabathia
said. “No matter how many runners were on base in any given
inning, I was just going to try to make some pitches to make
sure I got some outs.”  Granderson added a solo home run for the Yankees in the
bottom of the eighth inning.  The Yankees’ bullpen, which was tagged for 11 runs over
five innings the previous two games, sealed the win as  Kerry Wood  tossed two scoreless innings and  Mariano Rivera  retired the
Rangers in the ninth.  Texas lost for the first time in six road games this
postseason and was denied, at least temporarily, its first trip
to the World Series in franchise history.  The Yankees avoided losing three straight home games in the
same postseason series since the  1942 World Series , when they
lost Games 3, 4 and 5 against St. Louis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  at Yankee Stadium in New York at 
   matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  