-- Typhoon Megi Weakens on Way to South Coast of China, Center Says
-- B y   S t u a r t   B i g g s   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2010-10-21T09:49:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/typhoon-megi-weakens-on-way-to-southern-china-after-16-die-in-philippines.html
Typhoon Megi, which left 19 people
dead in the Philippines, weakened as it moved closer to the
south China coast, where authorities issued the highest alert
and stepped up emergency preparations for landfall.  The storm, packing sustained winds of 176 kilometers per
hour (109 mph), down from 185 kph earlier, was 440 kilometers
southeast of Hong Kong at 2 p.m. local time moving north at 9.3
kph, the U.S. Joint Typhoon Warning Center  said  on its website.  Megi is forecast to weaken further and make landfall near
Shantou in Guangdong province on Oct. 23. The storm’s eye may be
about 370 kilometers from Hong Kong at its closest, the center
said. The Hong Kong Observatory issued a  No. 3 Strong Wind
Signal , indicating winds as high as 62 kph are expected.  “Signal No. 3 is expected to be in force for some time,”
Lee Tsz-cheung, a senior scientific officer at the observatory,
said in a phone interview. “We do not expect the weather today
to deteriorate rapidly.”  Hong Kong’s government is making emergency preparations for
the typhoon as it nears as a direct hit may have a “serious”
impact on the city, acting Secretary for Security Lai Tung-kwok
said today.  Chevron Closes Terminal  Chevron Corp.  suspended unloading oil at its terminal at
Tsing Yi in Hong Kong until the typhoon passes, spokeswoman
Emily Lo said in a phone interview.  “The Hong Kong terminal is closed along with the fuel
terminals,” said Dennis Lee, a shipping manager for agents Gulf
Agency Company (Hong Kong) Ltd. “The tankers there have had to
move from the anchorage areas to more sheltered waters.”  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. doesn’t expect serious
disruptions from the typhoon as it approaches Hong Kong and
operations should be normal for the next 24 hours, it said in an
e-mailed statement. Some flight delays or diversions may be
possible later tomorrow, the company said.  In China, where flooding has left at least 2,000 people
dead this year, authorities ordered passenger train services to
and from Hainan province to resume after they were suspended on
Oct. 19, the official Xinhua News Agency  reported  today. Megi’s
impact is expected to be less than forecast, the report said.  China National Offshore Oil Corp. shut some of its offshore
oil and gas wells, the company’s listed arm  Cnooc Ltd.  said in
an e-mailed statement without giving further details.  “ If there is any significant impact on production
facilities, the company will disclose it according to the
relevant rules,” the statement said.  Shenzhen Reported Shut  China’s port of Shenzhen was shut as Megi moves closer to
land, Reuters reported today, citing an unidentified shipping
and logistics agent in Shenzhen.  Megi may exacerbate conditions in the southern provinces of
Hainan and Guangdong, where water levels remain high following
earlier storms that damaged flood-control infrastructure,
according to the water resources ministry’s  website .  Taiwanese authorities issued a sea and land warning as Megi
approached, the Central Weather Bureau said in a statement.  Nineteen people died in the Philippines as the storm, which
made landfall as a supertyphoon on Oct. 18, passed over Luzon,
the National Disaster council  said  today.  Megi is estimated to have caused about 4.8 billion
Philippine pesos ($111 million) of damage to infrastructure,
agriculture, fisheries and schools, the statement said. The
world’s biggest rice importer lost 314,000 tons of unmilled
grain, Agriculture Undersecretary Joel Rudinas said today.  Megi, or catfish in Korean, is the 15th storm of the
northwest Pacific season. The U.S. center is also monitoring two
weather systems in the Pacific  north  and  east  of Saipan that may
develop into cyclones within 12 to 24 hours.  To contact the reporters for this story:
 Stuart Biggs  in Tokyo at 
 ssbiggs3@bloomberg.net 
 Stephanie Tong  in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net 
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash@bloomberg.net  