-- Zhongjin Lingnan Told to Shut China Smelter on Spill, Nanfang Daily Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-21T10:12:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-21/zhongjin-lingnan-told-to-shut-china-smelter-on-spill-nanfang-daily-says.html
China’s  Shenzhen Zhongjin Lingnan
Nonfemet Co.  has been asked to suspend output at its Shaoguan
smelter after the provincial government said it had discharged
excessive levels of thallium into the Beijiang River, the
Nanfang Daily reported today, without citing anyone.  The effects of the toxic spill have been controlled and
measures have been adopted to ensure the safety of drinking
water, the newspaper said. Zhongjin Lingnan is China’s third-
largest zinc producer. Calls to Peng Ling, board secretary of
Zhongjin Lingnan, weren’t answered.  Zinc gained as much as 2 percent to $2,490 a metric ton on
the London Metal Exchange, the highest price since April, on
speculation Zhongjin Lingnan had halted production at the
smelter in Guangdong province. Trading of Zhongjin shares was
suspended today pending a company announcement.  The Shaoguan smelter has an annual production of 200,000
tons of zinc and 100,000 tons of lead, according to estimates by
Shanghai Metals Market.  China, the world’s worst polluter, needs to spend at least
2 percent of gross domestic product a year -- 680 billion yuan
at 2009 figures -- to clean up 30 years of industrial waste,
according to He Ping, chairman of the Washington-based
International Fund for China’s Environment.  Fujian-based  Zijin Mining Group Co. , China’s largest gold
producer, was forced to shut a copper plant and limit production
at a gold mine in eastern China’s Fujian province this year
after acid-laced waste spilled into a local river, killing
enough fish to feed 72,000 people for a year.  Authorities shut substandard smelters last year after
thousands of children were poisoned by lead, zinc and manganese
plants in Yunnan, Henan, Shaanxi and Hunan provinces.  Click here for web link  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net ; 