-- Rice Production to Miss Forecast on India Drought, USDA Says
-- Thomas Kutty Abraham
-- 2009-09-15T04:23:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-09-15/rice-production-to-miss-forecast-on-india-drought-usda-says.html

          
          
             Rice output in India, the world’s
second-biggest producer, will decline 7 percent more than
forecast next year because of a drought in the main growing
regions, the U.S.  Foreign Agricultural Service  said.  
 Production will be 82 million metric tons in the year
starting Oct. 1, compared with 88 million tons forecast early
last month, the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Foreign
Agricultural Service said in a  report . India harvested a record
99.2 million tons of rice in the 2008-09 season, it said.  
 “Most of the decline in rice production will be in the
states of  Uttar Pradesh  and Bihar, which after a prolonged
drought is now facing floods in some parts,” the USDA said.
“Rainfall distribution in the major rice surplus states of
Punjab, Haryana and Andhra Pradesh was also significantly below
normal although better irrigation coverage in these states has
mitigated production losses.”  
 India ’s weakest monsoon in at least seven years caused
drought in about half the country this year, damaging crops of
rice, sugar cane and oilseeds. The monsoon, the main source of
irrigation for India’s 235 million farmers, will be 15 percent
to 20 percent below a 50-year  average  this season, according to
the nation’s weather bureau.  
 The area planted with rice in the South Asian nation this
year is 7 million hectares less than a year earlier, and may
lead to a drop of 16 million tons to 18 million tons of monsoon-
sown rice output, the USDA said. Record government stockpiles
will make up for any shortfall in production, it said.  
 India may continue a ban on exports of non-basmati rice
indefinitely and scrap a duty on imports to encourage private
imports of the grain, the USDA said.  
 Rice futures for November delivery fell 4 cents, or 0.3
percent, to $13.125 per 100 pounds on the Chicago Board of Trade
yesterday. The price rose 15 percent in the past six months,
partly because of the unfavorable Indian weather.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Kutty Abraham in Mumbai at 
 tabraham4@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Poole  at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        