-- Save Your 401(k) From Next Lehman-Style Meltdown: John F. Wasik
-- John F. Wasik
-- 2009-09-16T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-09-15/save-your-401-k-from-next-lehman-style-meltdown-john-f-wasik.html

          
          
             It has been a year since the music
died on Wall Street.  
 What have many people done to protect their life savings
from events such as the collapse of the 158-year-old Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. and the ensuing financial pandemic? Next
to nothing.  
 Market risk can and should be pared from retirement
portfolios, though millions are just as vulnerable as they were
a year ago. Most people have left their dominant stock
allocations untouched. The key is to add more bonds.  
 The conventional wisdom that the historical returns of
stocks beat bonds was and is misleading. If you are retiring
during or immediately after a bear market, long-term returns are
irrelevant.  
 Consider the period after the  dot-com bubble  exploded.
Before the meltdown, didn’t you think technology stocks were
going to create a New Economy that would produce profits for
decades?  
 The tide turned fast. Let’s take 1999 through last year.
You would have lost money in large-company stocks in four of
those years (2000, 2001, 2002 and 2008). What if you retired in
2003 and had most of your money in big companies?  
 The chances are slim that your retirement plan has access
to sophisticated portfolio insurance strategies available to
institutional investors.  
 Because options for individuals are limited, you have to
buffer your portfolio with an equal mix of stocks and bonds. The
single-worst year for this formula was 1931, when such an
investment would have lost about 25 percent.  
 Bond Hedge  
 Compare the 1931 stock-bond mix with a 43 percent decline
for an all-stock portfolio in the same year, according to
 Ibbotson Associates , a Chicago-based research firm.  
 In 2008, the 50-50 mix would have lost only about 10
percent, which was the second-worst year on record for  major
stocks . Had you reduced your equity portion to 30 percent and
upped bonds to 70 percent, you would have been in the black --
up 3 percent.  
 Increasing your bond holdings is dull, though, which is why
most people don’t do it during a bull market. We have built-in
emotional circuits that tell us that regret from missing out on
profits is far more motivating than heading for cover.  
 Risk analysis goes out the window when everyone is enamored
of the same idea and we lose sight of what we can lose.  
 Quick quiz: What’s the chance of losing one quarter of your
money in stocks? Very, because it has happened twice in my
generation and twice in my parents’ lifetimes. It will certainly
happen again.  
 Following the Herd  
 Oh, but we can’t resist what our neighbors are doing.
“Animal spirits,” to cite economist  John Maynard Keynes ,
compel us to follow the herd, even when it is headed into unsafe
territory.  
 Let’s go back to those splendid stock returns when everyone
was making money. True, in 1999, big companies were up 21
percent. As it was the end of the dot-com bubble, many investors
dumped almost everything they had into equities -- and stayed
put.  
 Buy-and-holders should have reversed course.  
 Those who kept a 100 percent stock allocation would have
lost 9 percent, 12 percent and 22 percent respectively in the
three following years. Of course, they would have been rewarded
in stocks from 2003 through 2007. Then the bottom fell out again
last year as the biggest stocks plummeted 37 percent.  
 Short-Circuit  
 Government policy does little to short-circuit investment
myopia.  
 Along with automatic enrollment for individual retirement
accounts for small businesses and the ability to re-invest tax
refunds in savings bonds -- both recently proposed by the Obama
administration -- we should be able to easily insulate our
entire retirement fund.  
 Even though conventional bonds are part of the solution,
you still face interest-rate, credit and inflation risk from
holding them. When interest rates go up, you could lose
principal in all but consumer price-indexed bonds. A more easily
accessed, principal-guaranteed vehicle is needed.  
 Enter the “R” Bond, a concept under development in the
halls of the U.S. government.  
 The  Treasury Department  hasn’t provided details on this
bond yet. If it isn’t linked to the stock market and the
principal is guaranteed, your retirement plan could buy them
automatically and you could even predict how much money you
would have in the future.  
 If the R bond survives the twisted intrigues of Washington
and Wall Street, it might become one of the most useful
financial products since the fixed-rate mortgage.  
 To understand why the R bond is important, you need only
look at your 401(k) balance.  
 Papered Over  
 Sure, your funds may have recovered somewhat, but
consistent 401(k) contributions tend to paper over stock-market
losses since account balances are rising. The one truth that
remains since the Lehman-triggered rout? The more you need to
protect principal, the less market risk you should take.  
 It’s time for a change. Market risk gets painful really
fast once you hear how much your future living standard eroded
due to unnecessary market losses. That’s an oft-sung ballad that
sounds harsher the older you get.  
 ( John F. Wasik , author of “The Audacity of Help,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
John F. Wasik in Chicago at 
 jwasik@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        