-- Gazprom Seeks Assets in Swap With Eni, Putin Says
-- Anthony DiPaola
-- 2008-04-18T12:40:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-04-18/gazprom-seeks-assets-in-swap-with-eni-putin-says-update1-.html

          
          
             OAO Gazprom expects to receive assets
from Italy's  Eni SpA (ENI)  in countries like Libya as the two companies
cooperate in exploring for oil or natural gas and transporting
fuel, Russian President  Vladimir Putin  said.  
 Moscow-based Gazprom, the world's biggest natural gas
producer, and Eni, Italy's largest oil company, agreed a year ago
to swap assets giving each other reciprocal access to their home
markets. Eni bought gas fields in Siberia in return for Gazprom
gaining the right to sell fuel in Italy.  
 ``Eni has already received access to assets on the territory
of the Russian Federation, and Gazprom expects to get appropriate
assets in other countries, including in Libya,'' Putin said today
during a press conference in Sardinia with Italy's Prime Minister-elect Silvio Berlusconi.  
 Eni and Gazprom will jointly develop assets like  oil deposits 
in third countries, according to the agreement. Eni offered its
Russian partner a stake in the 140,000-barrel-a-day Elephant field
in Libya, Chief Executive Officer  Paolo Scaroni  said yesterday.  
 Putin and Berlusconi both said the two companies would
continue to work on joint projects. Eni and Gazprom are also
developing the South Stream pipeline aimed at bringing Russian gas
to central Europe via the Balkans.  
 ``The range of joint projects is wide, from common extraction
of energy resources, to participation in the development of
infrastructure and pipeline transportation,'' Putin said today.  
 Berlusconi also said Italy would seek to increase gas imports
from Russia.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Walters in Moscow 
 gwalters1@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony DiPaola in  Rome  at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        