-- Brazil May End State Uranium Monopoly, Minister Says
-- Carla Simoes
-- 2008-05-15T17:46:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-05-15/brazil-may-end-state-uranium-monopoly-minister-says-update1-.html

          
          
             Brazil  may end its monopoly on
uranium mining to let companies such as  Cia. Vale do Rio Doce 
sell the nuclear fuel in domestic and overseas markets, Mines
and Energy Minister Edison Lobao said.  
 Opening up the market to non-government enterprises may
help Brazil, with the world's sixth-largest uranium reserves,
move into fourth place by spurring exploration that will tap new
deposits, Lobao said in a Bloomberg Television interview.  
 Studies are being done on how to open up mining and uranium
refining to private companies, Lobao said in Brasilia. He said
changes to end the government's monopoly may be put in place
within a year. Lifting limits on outside investors may let new
reserves be developed more quickly than under the current
system, he said.  
 ``There are many companies interested,'' Lobao said. ``The
investments needed and the level of exports that could be made
have not yet been measured. But there is no doubt that the
monopoly and the way we are treating this  valuable ore  are
either harming us or causing us to lose out.''  
 Five government ministries and the lower house of the
national legislature are exploring ending Industrias Nucleares
do Brasil's monopoly. The goal is to attract investments to
support Brazil's nuclear-energy program, which includes adding
four generating plants by 2030.  
 Eletronuclear SA, the nuclear-energy unit of state-run
 Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET6) , supplies about 2.9 percent of
Brazil's electricity from the Angra I and Angra II reactors in
 Rio de Janeiro  state. A third plant at Angra is expected to be
completed by 2014, at a cost of about 7.35 billion reais ($4.44
billion), Othon Luis Pinheiro, Eletronuclear's president, told
reporters in Rio in April.  
 Reserves  
 Brazil has 309,000 tons of uranium reserves, 7 percent of
the world's total, according to the Brazilian Mining Institute.
Kazakhstan has the largest uranium reserves, followed by
 Australia ,  South Africa , the U.S. and  Canada .  
 Cia. Vale do Rio Doce, the world's largest iron-ore
producer, and mining magnate  Eike Batista 's holding company,
Grupo EBX, have expressed interest in developing uranium
deposits in Brazil. Vale, based in Rio De Janeiro, said last
year that it was prospecting for uranium in Australia.  
 ``The opening up to the private sector of mining, refining
and even exporting would all be subject to strict government
control,'' Lobao said. ``We will do everything securely.''  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Diana Kinch in Rio de Janeiro 
 dkinch1@bloomberg.net ;
Carla Simoes in Brasilia 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Tony Cox  in Houston at 
 acox3@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        