-- Panel rejects Merck over-the-counter statin bid
-- By  Lisa Richwine
-- Thu Dec 13, 2007 7:20pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/12/14/businesspro-merck-mevacor-dc-idUSN1322282720071214

 

 SILVER SPRING, Maryland  (Reuters) - A U.S. advisory panel 
urged the government on Thursday to reject Merck & Co Inc's 
( MRK.N ) latest bid to sell a cholesterol-lowering drug without 
a prescription. 

  The committee voted 10-2, with one abstention, against 
recommending over-the-counter sales of Merck's cholesterol 
fighter Mevacor. Most of the experts said a company study 
failed to show patients could decide for themselves if they 
were appropriate candidates for the medicine.  Currently all cholesterol-lowering drugs require a doctor's 
prescription before being dispensed in the United States.  "Of the patients who chose the drug, frequently it wasn't 
right for them," said Dr. William Shrank, a panel member and 
internal medicine expert at Harvard Medical School.  The U.S. Food and Drug Administration will make the final 
decision, but usually follows panel recommendations. Merck said 
an FDA ruling is expected in the first quarter of 2008.  Mevacor is one of the statin drugs taken by millions to cut 
cholesterol and the risk of heart disease, the leading killer 
of Americans. Other prescription statins include Merck's Zocor 
and Pfizer Inc's ( PFE.N ) Lipitor.  Merck is making its third try to win approval of a 
low-dose, nonprescription version of Mevacor for patients with 
a moderate risk of heart disease.  Allowing statin sales without a prescription would be a 
major shift. Nonprescription drugs generally treat short-term 
conditions with easily recognized symptoms such as a headache 
or runny nose. High cholesterol can be detected only with a 
blood test, and patients often take statins for years.  Merck argued before the panel that an estimated 20 million 
Americans with moderate heart-disease risk could benefit from a 
statin, but just 6 million of them are on treatment.  Having Mevacor available on drugstore shelves could lure 
many untreated patients to therapy, said Edwin Hemwall, an 
official with Merck Research Laboratories.  "Over time, it will reduce the risk of a first heart attack 
and provide a real impact on public health," Hemwall said.  But panel members questioned if some patients who should 
not take Mevacor would do so.  Merck tested consumers' understanding of packaging 
instructions meant to help people decide if they should take 
Mevacor. In one study, about 30 percent of people with diabetes 
or a history of heart disease or a stroke wanted to buy 
Mevacor, FDA reviewers said. The label advised such patients to 
consult a doctor before use.  Panel members worried that such higher-risk patients might 
take over-the-counter Mevacor rather than a more-potent 
prescription statin.  Consumers "may misdiagnose themselves ... and be on 
inadequate therapy," said panel member Arthur Levin, director 
of the Center for Medical Consumers.  "Or they might misdiagnose themselves and be on lifetime 
therapy when there's no need for that therapy," Levin added.  Unnecessary treatment could expose people to risks such as 
muscle weakness, panelists said.  Merck said it was disappointed with the panel's decision. 
"We felt we presented a compelling case," Hemwall said in a 
written statement.  GlaxoSmithKline Plc ( GSK.L ) recently acquired exclusive 
U.S. rights to sell over-the-counter Mevacor in return for 
undisclosed milestone and royalty payments to Merck.  Mevacor, known generically as lovastatin, lost patent 
protection in 2001. An over-the-counter version would receive 
three years of exclusive marketing time if approved.  If the bid is rejected, the FDA would consider future 
attempts to move Mevacor over the counter, said Andrea 
Leonard-Segal, director of the FDA's nonprescription drugs 
office.  "We're open-minded," she told reporters.