-- Granddad, Investment Banking Is Dirty, Dangerous: Mark Gilbert
-- Mark Gilbert
-- 2009-09-23T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-09-23/granddad-investment-banking-is-dirty-dangerous-mark-gilbert.html

          
          
             “Granddad Benny, this investment-
banking museum isn’t anywhere near as scary as the gold mine
tour we went on last week during our California trip.”  
 Granddad looked up from the hologram showing a trading-room
tableau in a virtual room the size of a football pitch. The
display showed legions of angry men dressed identically in
chinos and Ralph Lauren button-collared shirts, staring at racks
of computer screens from their Herman Miller Aeron chairs.  
 “Well, Joel, for chunks of human history, mining for
commodities such as gold, silver and coal played a central role
in the development of particular cities and countries. Miners
were regarded as stalwarts of their local communities; they
faced terrible risks every day when they went underground, but
their work was regarded as valuable and vital to the economic
wellbeing of the world.  
 “Bankers and traders also endured terrible personal risks.
They suffered high blood pressure caused by the stress of their
jobs, they worked long days under fluorescent lights and were
bullied by their managers, and many of them became sociopaths
who knew the price of everything and the value of nothing. And,
in the end, their industry turned out to be a lot more dangerous
than mining ever was. Which is why it was eventually outlawed.”  
 Joel stood next to his grandfather and swiped a finger
across the interactive hologram screen, which made the hands of
the traders peck at keyboards and their faces contort and twist
in agony or ecstasy. “The man on the mining tour told us about
something called the gold rush, and said that when the gold
price collapsed, the mine had to shut. Was that what happened to
the banks, Granddad?”  
 Dead Presidents  
 Granddad walked over to a second hologram, which showed a
rectangle of green paper rippling like a flag in a breeze, with
a No. 1 in each corner and a picture of a guy wearing a wig in
the middle above the words “ONE DOLLAR.”  
 “In a way, that’s exactly what happened,” Granddad said.
“There was a decade-long boom in the kinds of commodities that
the banks traded in, very similar to a gold rush. A lot of
people got very rich, very quickly.  
 “There was one big difference, though. When a gold rush
ended, the mines shut down and the miners went back to where
they came from and resumed farming, or carpentry, or whatever it
was they did for a living before they started digging for
treasure. When the investment-banking boom collapsed, the
traders didn’t have any skills that were useful to society.  
 Life Support  
 “Instead of closing down, the banks were able to scare
governments into giving them billions of dollars to pay their
employees. Most of them didn’t even have to take a pay cut. And
instead of finding new things for their staff to do, the banks
carried on taking huge risks with other people’s money.”  
 “The men in the hologram don’t look too dangerous, though
they sure don’t look very happy,” said Joel, rubbing his finger
back and forth on the screen and making one trader repeatedly
throw piles of collateralized-debt obligation documents into the
air, only for them to fall back into a neat pile as the clip
looped back and forth. “Why was banking so dangerous?”  
 “Do you remember the part of the mine tour where we came
up against a pile of stones that it was impossible to get
around?” Granddad said.  
 “Yes, the guide said it was called a rockfall, and that
miners used to get buried and couldn’t get out,” Joel said.  
 Giglobubu Time  
 “Well, investment banking didn’t pay enough attention to
health and safety issues. Instead of the bankers getting
crushed, though, it was their customers who suffered when the
financial markets collapsed in the Gigantic Global Bubble Burst
in the first decade of the century. When people realized that
even the Giglobubu hadn’t persuaded the banks to curb their
behavior, there was an uproar. Governments had to intervene and
change the law to keep people safe from the traders -- and the
traders safe from the angry people. This New York museum is
about all that is left of the investment banks.”  
 Joel started playing with another holographic display,
making a brick-sized gold ingot spin on its corner. “The man on
the mine tour said that gold became important again when fake
currencies were made illegal. What did he mean, Granddad?”  
 “I think he said fiat currencies, Joel, not fake. When
China took control of all global financial activities, the world
decided to go back to something called the gold standard, which
meant paper money, like the dollar bill in that hologram, became
a true store of value, rather than a confidence trick.”  
 Granddad glanced at his watch. “Time to go, Master Joel.
My shift at the T-shirt factory starts soon.”  
 (Mark Gilbert is the London bureau chief and a columnist
for Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Mark Gilbert in London at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        