-- Senators Say They'll Offer Stand-Alone Bill to Repeal the Military Gay Ban
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2010-12-10T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/-don-t-ask-don-t-tell-ban-s-repeal-blocked-by-u-s-senate-in-57-40-vote.html
Two senators said they will
introduce a separate measure to repeal a U.S. ban on gays
serving openly in the military after Democrats yesterday failed
to get enough votes for the Senate to consider the legislation.  Senators  Joe Lieberman , a Connecticut independent, and
 Susan Collins , a Maine Republican, will jointly introduce a
stand-alone proposal to end the “don’t ask, don’t tell”
policy, they told reporters yesterday in a news conference.  The 57-40 vote fell short of the 60 senators needed for the
chamber to take up a defense spending bill that included the
repeal. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat,
said he couldn’t reach agreement with Republicans on terms that
would have allowed debate of the broader spending legislation.  “They’re all doing what they can to stand in the way of
the bill,” Reid said on the Senate floor, telling colleagues
that “we tried every possible way to move forward on this.”  Collins was the only Republican to vote in favor of
advancing the defense-spending legislation with the repeal
provision.  Joe Manchin  of West Virginia was the lone Democrat in
opposition.  The courts may ultimately decide the matter if Congress
fails to repeal the policy in the waning days of the current
congressional session. A federal trial judge in September ruled
the ban unconstitutional. The Supreme Court last month allowed
the law to remain in effect during appeals.  ‘Disappointing’ Vote  While the “vote was disappointing, it must not be the end
of our efforts,” President  Barack Obama  said in a statement
yesterday. “This law weakens our national security, diminishes
our military readiness and violates fundamental American
principles of fairness, integrity and equality.”  Prospects for separate legislation this year would depend
on the progress of negotiations and debates on other measures,
such as government funding for the fiscal year that began Oct.
1, extending Bush-era tax cuts, and ratifying a nuclear-arms
reduction treaty with Russia.  In January, supporters of permitting gays to serve openly
in the armed forces would face a Republican majority in the
House of Representatives and a smaller Democratic majority in
the Senate.  The “vote is heartbreaking and demoralizing,” said
OutServe, a group of actively serving gay members of the armed
forces, in a statement yesterday.  House Vote  The Democratic-controlled House approved a measure in May
to end the policy. The Senate in September voted 56-43 to block
an earlier bid to permit floor action on the legislation.  Obama pledged in his January 2010 State of the Union
address to lift the “don’t ask, don’t tell” policy.  Reid said he worked with Collins and Lieberman to reach an
agreement on Republican demands for permitting amendments to the
defense spending bill.  Collins, who voted with Democrats to go forward with the
repeal, said she was “perplexed and frustrated that this
important bill is going to become a victim of politics” on a
procedural vote.  “I want to vote to proceed with this bill,” Collins said
on the Senate floor before the vote. “There was such a clear
path for us to be able to get this bill done.”  Republican Opposition  Arizona Senator  John McCain  led most Republicans in
fighting repeal during this year’s session, citing a Pentagon
 study  showing that soldiers in combat units and Marines were
more concerned than other service members about letting gays
serve openly in their units.  The provision is part of broader legislation to set defense
spending policy. The repeal measure may be removed from the
defense bill to allow the defense policy legislation to pass
before the end of the congressional term.  Supporters of repeal sought to sway a handful of
Republicans, including Collins and  Lisa Murkowski  of Alaska.
Both said they would support a vote as long as Democratic
leaders agreed to allow “sufficient debate and amendments” on
the broader bill.  Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  and the chairman of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff, Admiral  Michael Mullen , last week urged
Congress to end the ban so the Defense Department would have
time to implement new rules, rather than running the risk that a
federal court might order a sudden change.  Risk ‘Low’  Gates and Mullen cited the Pentagon study, released last
week, saying it found the risk to overall military effectiveness
would be “low.”  The 1993 “don’t ask, don’t tell” policy, enacted under
former President  Bill Clinton , allows gay men and lesbians to
serve in the military only if their sexual orientation isn’t
disclosed.  The chiefs of most of the U.S. military services, including
Army General  George Casey , Air Force General  Norton Schwartz  and
Marine Corps General  James Amos  said implementation of repeal
should be delayed.  In a Senate Armed Services Committee hearing last week,
Casey called repeal a “major cultural and policy change in the
middle of a war.” Schwartz advocated waiting until at least
2012 to provide enough time to prepare, while Amos favored a
delay until his Marines aren’t primarily focused on fighting the
war in Afghanistan.  The legislation would have changed the policy only after
Obama and military leaders determined it wouldn’t hurt military
effectiveness.  “Wartime is exactly the right time to do everything we can
to strengthen our military,” Reid said yesterday. “We can no
longer ask our troops to die for a flag that represents justice
and ask them to be false about themselves while they do it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Viola Gienger  in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net . 