-- `Pile of Pesos' Drives Inflation Up While Curbing Rates: Argentina Credit
-- B y   D r e w   B e n s o n
-- 2010-12-09T18:07:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/-pile-of-pesos-drives-inflation-up-while-curbing-rates-argentina-credit.html
Argentina is printing pesos at the
fastest pace in at least four months, fueling inflation that
economists estimate is climbing to about 30 percent.  The nation’s cash in circulation and checking and savings
accounts, as measured by the M2 monetary gauge, rose 2.1 percent
to 237.3 billion pesos ($60 billion) for the week ended Nov. 26,
the central bank said in its most recent weekly report.  The country is flooding the market with pesos to weaken the
currency and boost exports, said  Camilo Tiscornia , who left his
post as a central bank economist this year to run Buenos Aires-
based research firm C&T Asesores Economicos. The growing money
supply is holding down the average 30-day rate that banks pay on
deposits, known as the  badlar rate , to 10.84 percent in the past
month. Only Venezuela has a lower inflation-adjusted, or real,
benchmark interest rate among countries tracked by Bloomberg.  “If you want to fight inflation, you don’t expand the
monetary supply -- you try to contract it,” said  Carola Sandy ,
an economist at Credit Suisse Group AG in New York. “But then,
the central bank isn’t really a believer in orthodox policies.”  Argentina’s monetary policy is driving inflation to about
25 percent this year, more than double the official government
rate, and toward 30 percent in 2011, said Sandy.  The government reported  annual inflation  was 11.1 percent
in October. Argentina’s pricing index has been questioned by
private economists and politicians, including Vice President
Julio Cobos since then-President  Nestor Kirchner  shuffled
national statistics agency personnel in January 2007. President
 Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  says the data is accurate.
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. estimates inflation will be at least 25
percent this year.  Monetary Targets  The central bank lifted its year-end monetary growth target
to 254.7 billion pesos in August. On Dec. 6, the bank said it
began circulating 100-peso notes printed in Brazil “to assure
an adequate provision of bills in the national financial
system.”  Central bank President  Mercedes Marco  del Pont may step up
the sale of central bank debt, known as lebacs and nobacs, in
weekly auctions to meet the  money supply  goal, Sandy said. That
move, along with rising corporate demand for cash spurred by the
payout of year-end worker bonuses, may push the  badlar  deposit
rate “slightly higher,” she said.  The central bank is working to comply with the revised
money program and expects to meet the new limits, said a bank
official who asked not to be named in accordance with policy.  In a Nov. 18 speech in the port city of Rosario, Marco del
Pont said that the central bank isn’t fanning inflation.  Peso Falls  “It calls my attention when the opposition sometimes says
that ‘the central bank is promoting the rise in prices,’” she
said. “So I say, no, the central bank is expanding the amount
of money hand-in-hand with an economy that’s growing at 9
percent.”  The peso rose 0.2 percent to 3.9722 per dollar at 12:58
p.m. New York time. The currency has weakened 4.4 percent this
year, after falling 9.1 percent in 2009. Argentine markets were
closed yesterday for a national holiday.  Five-year credit-default swaps tied to Argentine debt rose
14 basis points yesterday to 636. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt. Credit-
default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to debt agreements.  The extra yield investors demand to own Argentine bonds
instead of U.S. Treasuries fell 2 basis points to 505, according
to JPMorgan.  Government warrants linked to growth in South America’s
second-biggest economy fell 0.17 cent to 13.73 cents, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Dollar Purchases  Argentina’s central bank targets the money supply rather
than a benchmark short-term interest rate.  Policy makers will likely miss the year-end money supply
goal for private banks, said  Tiscornia  of C&T Asesores
Economicos. He predicts the M2 gauge for private banks will rise
33 percent this year, above the country’s 30 percent target.  “I doubt the money supply will fall back below that upper
limit by the end of the year,” Tiscornia said. The central bank
is printing “a pile of pesos” to fund its dollar purchases in
the foreign-exchange market and to transfer profits to the
Treasury, he said.  Fernandez defended the country’s currency policy to stem
the peso’s gains and shore up exporters’ profit margins.  “Without government intervention, the dollar would be
approximately 1.86” pesos, Fernandez said during a Dec. 7
speech in Buenos Aires.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Drew Benson  in Buenos Aires at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  