-- 3i-Backed Indiareit Plans to Raise $622 Million for Three Property Funds
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2010-12-09T01:37:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/3i-backed-indiareit-plans-to-raise-622-million-for-three-property-funds.html
Indiareit Fund Advisors Pvt., a real
estate venture capital fund backed by  3i Group Plc , plans to
raise about $622 million in three new funds that will invest in
Indian property across the nation’s major cities.  Indiareit  plans to raise $400 million for an offshore fund,
as well as a 6 billion rupee ($133 million) rental yield fund
and a 4 billion rupee domestic debt fund in the year starting
April 1, Chief Executive Officer  Ramesh Jogani  said.  “India is a great place to be in, it’s a great story where
demographics are right and gross domestic product is growing at
8 percent,” Mumbai-based Jogani said in an interview yesterday.
“If you stick to the basics and do it right, I think it’s a
great place to make a lot of money.”  Private-equity firms invested about $1.24 billion in 34
deals in India this year, according to a study by Venture
Intelligence, a researcher based in the south Indian city of
Chennai. That’s a 69 percent increase from the same period last
year with 22 investments valued at $735 million, it said.  Indiareit, started in 2006, advises on funds worth about
$850 million that invest in real estate in the Indian cities of
Mumbai, Chennai, Bangalore, Hyderabad and Pune. 3i, Europe’s
largest publicly traded private-equity firm, is a cornerstone
investor in Indiareit’s $200 million offshore fund, Jogani said.  Commercial real estate is picking up as rentals have risen
and offer returns of 12 percent, compared with residential
property, which yields between 2 percent and 3 percent, he said.
Mumbai is the fourth most expensive office market in the world,
according to a CB Richard Ellis Group Inc. report last month, 
and New Delhi was ranked 11th.  ‘Huge Play’  “I see a huge play for investors and funds in commercial,
though no one is ready to touch it with a barge pole as of
now,” Jogani said. “I don’t see the oversupply in commercial
continuing for long. The supply will be so quickly lapped up
that one will feel they missed the boat.”  Jogani expects prices to “correct” in some housing
markets such as Mumbai, Delhi and Pune. Indiareit invests in
metropolitan cities with about 70 percent invested in
residential property and the rest in office spaces.  Indiareit is introducing the new funds at a time when
costs at real estate companies are expected to rise after a
bribery probe that led to the arrests of eight bank and
brokerage executives last month relating to preferential
treatment to developers. Property companies may face higher
borrowing costs and shrinking access to credit after the arrests,
Ambit Capital Pvt. said last month.  Selling Stake  Billionaire Ajay Piramal plans to sell his stake in
Indiareit, according to a letter sent to investors. Piramal will
sell the stake to avoid a conflict of interest with his own real
estate development plans, according to the letter obtained by
Bloomberg News. The buyer’s identity wasn’t disclosed.  Religare Enterprises Ltd. , a New Delhi-based financial
services group, is close to buying 85 percent of Indiareit,
valuing the fund at 2.5 billion rupees, the Economic Times
reported on Dec. 7, citing two people it didn’t identify.
Religare said in a statement it hasn’t signed an agreement with
Indiareit and that it constantly evaluates opportunities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pooja Thakur  in Mumbai at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at   apapuc1@bloomberg.net  