-- Abbas Rejects Talks With Israel in Absence of West Bank Construction Halt
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2010-12-09T12:50:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/abbas-rejects-talks-with-israel-in-absence-of-west-bank-construction-halt.html
Palestinian Authority President
 Mahmoud Abbas  said after consulting Arab leaders in Cairo that
there will be no further direct peace talks with Israel unless
it renews a moratorium on settlement construction.  Abbas met Egypt’s President  Hosni Mubarak  today and  Amre Moussa , secretary-general of the Arab League, yesterday,
according to the Palestinian news agency Wafa. His chief
negotiator,  Saeb Erakat , left Egypt by plane for Washington,
where he will meet with Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  to
clarify a U.S. decision not to press Israel further on
settlement construction to revive the talks, it said.  “We will not accept negotiations as long as settlement
goes on,” Abbas told reporters. He said Erakat went to
Washington because “things can’t be solved on the phone.”  President  Barack Obama  is sending envoy  George Mitchell 
back to the Middle East next week to determine whether it is
still possible to revive Israeli-Palestinian talks that have
been stalled since mid-September,  Philip J. Crowley , a State
Department spokesman, said yesterday.  Israel’s chief negotiator,  Yitzhak Molcho , is already in
Washington for talks with Clinton and Mitchell to prepare for
the U.S. envoy’s separate meetings with Abbas and Prime Minister
 Benjamin Netanyahu  next week, according to an Israeli government
official who asked not to be identified because Molcho’s
itinerary had not been officially announced.  Separate Talks  Abbas said Erakat will not have any direct interaction with
Netanyahu’s negotiator and that their talks with Clinton and
Mitchell will be kept separate.  “There will be no meetings behind the curtain between him
and the Israelis,” Abbas said, according to Wafa.  Direct talks between Israel and the Palestinian Authority
collapsed after less than a month in September when a 10-month
Israeli moratorium on settlement construction expired. Abbas
said he wouldn’t continue direct talks without a building
freeze.  The Palestinian leader will chair a meeting of the
Palestine Liberation Organization’s decision-making Executive
Committee in the West Bank city of Ramallah tomorrow to develop
its strategy in light of the U.S. decision on settlements, said
 Hanan Ashrawi , a member of the committee.  “We should come out with a Palestinian policy to show it to
the concerned parties in order to reach comprehensive support on
Palestinian rights,” she said in an e-mailed statement.  Obstacles to Peace  Former Middle East negotiators say Mitchell faces an uphill
battle in convincing both sides to find common ground on some of
the stickiest issues blocking a final peace agreement, such as
the borders of a Palestinian state and security guarantees.  After failing to get Israelis and Palestinians to resume
face-to-face peace negotiations, the U.S. administration’s only
real option was to try mediation on the fundamental issues
needed for a two-state solution, said  Aaron David Miller , a
former Mideast peace negotiator and State Department official.  “The only good news is they’re going to be focused now on
the end game and the substance that is required to actually get
an agreement,” Miller said.  Clinton, who meets today with Molho, may outline a new U.S.
approach in a speech she is scheduled to give tomorrow at the
 Brookings Institution  in Washington.  “We’re looking forward to that like Moses coming down from
the mountain with the tablets,” said Miller. Still, the speech
is “likely to be more of a philosophy than a blueprint,” he
said.  Change of Tack  Crowley said the U.S. recognized that persuading Israel to
halt Jewish settlements in the West Bank had become “an end in
itself rather than a means to an end.” Once that effort failed,
he said it made sense to shift “to a different path.”  Asked what the new track would be, Crowley replied,
“That’s what we’re trying to figure out.”  Israelis and Palestinians yesterday traded accusations
about which side had undermined peace talks.  Erakat said Netanyahu “succeeded in torpedoing the peace
talks.” Israeli Deputy Foreign Minister  Danny Ayalon  said the
Palestinian strategy was “to avoid negotiations” and “blame
Israel.”  Israel has built about 120 settlements in the West Bank
since the late 1960s. Another 100 smaller settlements, which
Israel calls outposts, were built during the past decade. The
United Nations says the settlements are illegal, and the
International Committee of the Red Cross says they breach the
Fourth Geneva Convention governing actions on occupied
territory.  Israel says the settlements don’t fall under the convention
because the territory wasn’t recognized as belonging to anyone
before the 1967 war, in which Israel prevailed, and therefore
isn’t occupied.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 