-- AbitibiBowater New Shares to Begin Trading Tomorrow, Toronto Exchange Says
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2010-12-09T16:59:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/abitibibowater-new-shares-to-begin-trading-tomorrow-toronto-exchange-says.html
AbitibiBowater Inc. , the newsprint
producer emerging from bankruptcy protection, will start trading
new shares on the Toronto Stock Exchange tomorrow after its plan
of reorganization becomes effective today, the exchange said.  Shares of AbitibiBowater, the world’s largest newsprint
producer by capacity, will begin trading on a when-issued basis,
the exchange said today in a statement.  The company sought court protection in April 2009 as the
global economic downturn eroded North American demand for
newsprint. Chief Executive Officer David Paterson has shut mills
and focused newsprint sales on export markets in Asia and the
Middle East after winning court approval to turn $7.2 billion of
debt into shares.  AbitibiBowater “is now operating at a level that supports
free cash flow generation, which should be sustainable as long
as commodity prices trends in a positive direction,”  Bill Hoffmann , a New York-based fixed-income analyst at RBC Capital
Markets, said in a Dec. 7 note to clients. “The company is
exiting bankruptcy with a much stronger balance sheet and
substantially improved liquidity profile.”  Seth Kursman , a spokesman for Montreal-based
AbitibiBowater, declined to comment on the stock-exchange
announcement.  Unsecured creditors of the company and its 34 operating
units will see recoveries ranging from nothing to full payment,
according to projections set out in the company’s reorganization
plan last month. Secured lenders will get a full recovery in
either cash or another arrangement that pays them in full,
according to the plan. AbitibiBowater’s former shareholders were
wiped out under the arrangement.  AbitibiBowater was formed in the October 2007 merger of
Abitibi-Consolidated and Bowater Inc. in a transaction valued at
about $4.8 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Donville  in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 