-- Madoff Trustee Sues Glantz, Family for $113 Million Citing Feeder Funds
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2010-12-10T03:20:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/madoff-trustee-sues-glantz-family-for-113-million-citing-feeder-funds.html
The trustee liquidating  Bernard Madoff ’s investment firm sued Richard Glantz and his family for
$113 million, alleging Glantz and his late father ran feeder
funds for Madoff’s Ponzi scheme.  Trustee  Irving Picard  said in a complaint filed today that
since 1992 Glantz and his father, Edward, “created and managed
entities that pooled many millions of dollars of investor funds
so that they could be funneled into” Bernard L. Madoff
Investment Securities LLC.  Richard Glantz, a lawyer who worked for the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission, and Edward Glantz, a certified public
accountant, knew or should have known about the fraudulent
nature of Madoff’s operation, Picard said in the complaint filed
in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan.  In an earlier case, the men and the entities they managed
were investigated by the SEC, enjoined in 1993 from violating
securities laws and forced to return money to investors,
according to the complaint. Millions of dollars of that money
that should have been returned “were almost immediately
reinvested directly” with Madoff, who rewarded the men with
fraudulent side payments for referring investors, according to
the filing.  Richard Glantz didn’t return a voice-mail message left at
his San Rafael, California, office after regular business hours.  Family Foundation  The complaint seeks to recover $113 million in transfers
from Madoff’s firms to the Glantzes, the Glantz Family
Foundation Inc. and more than two dozen other defendants and
entities.  Madoff, 72, is serving a 150-year sentence in federal
prison in North Carolina after admitting he directed the biggest
Ponzi scheme in history. Madoff’s New York-based firm was forced
into bankruptcy after his arrest in December 2008.  At the time of his arrest, Madoff’s account statements
reflected 4,900 accounts with $65 billion in nonexistent
balances. Investors lost about $20 billion in principal.  The case is Picard v Glantz, 10-5394, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Gullo  in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
 Bob Van Voris  in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 