-- Citigroup, Bank of America Sued by Madoff Trustee
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2010-12-09T19:55:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/madoff-trustee-picard-sues-citibank-merrill-nomura-banco-bilbao-vizcaya.html
Citigroup Inc. ’s Citibank,  Bank of
America Corp. ’s Merrill Lynch unit and five other banks were
sued by the trustee liquidating  Bernard Madoff ’s firm to recover
more than $1 billion for the con man’s defrauded customers.  The banks, which include Natixis SA, Fortis Prime Fund
Solutions Bank (Ireland) Ltd., ABN Amro Bank NV, Nomura Bank
International Plc. and  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA ,
received money through Madoff feeder funds when they knew, or
should have known, that Madoff’s investments were a fraud, the
trustee,  Irving Picard , said yesterday in a statement.  Picard, who faces a two-year legal deadline that runs out
Dec. 11, has filed hundreds of suits in the past month, seeking
more than $34 billion from banks, feeder funds, investors and
others alleged to have profited from Madoff’s decades-long Ponzi
scheme, the biggest in history. So far, Picard has recovered
about $2.5 billion for victims of the fraud.  “Citi will vigorously defend against these claims by the
trustee as they are without merit and entirely untrue,”
 Danielle Romero-Apsilos , a  Citigroup  spokeswoman, said in an e-
mailed statement. “Citi did not know about nor in any way
assist in the Madoff fraud.”  Picard is seeking $425 million from Citigroup and
$16 million from Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of
America.  “There is no merit to this claim and we will vigorously
defend ourselves in this action,”  Bill Halldin , a  Bank of
America  spokesman, said today in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Take All Steps’  Natixis denied the allegations in a statement today and
said it plans to “take all steps” to defend itself. The Paris-
based bank said it had no knowledge of Madoff’s fraud and didn’t
benefit from the scheme. The company set aside provisions of 463
million euros ($612 million) by the end of 2009, or 100 percent
of its exposure to Madoff assets net of insurance, it said.  “BBVA at no moment had any knowledge or indication of the
fraud,” a spokesman for Bilbao, Spain-based bank, said today in
an e-mailed statement.  Arien Bikker, an ABN Amro spokesman, declined to comment.
Representatives of the other banks didn’t immediately return
requests seeking comment after regular business hours yesterday.  Picard filed the complaints under seal yesterday in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan.  ‘Spigot of New Money’  “The complaints allege that the banks enabled the Madoff
Ponzi scheme by opening a spigot of new money into the Madoff
feeder fund network, by creating and offering derivative
investment products linked to various Madoff feeder funds,”
Picard said in his statement. “Often, the derivative products
were developed in conjunction with the Madoff feeder funds.”  Picard also sued  UBS AG  and Tremont Group Holdings Inc.,
the hedge-fund firm owned by Oppenheimer Acquisition Corp., over
claims they profited from Madoff’s fraud. Picard, along with the
liquidators of Madoff’s U.K. operation, sued the unit’s former
directors in a London court seeking at least $80 million.  The claim against UBS, for at least $555 million, was filed
in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in New York and was the second suit
against the bank by Picard. It came after a $2 billion suit
against the Zurich-based bank last month.  Picard, who sued Tremont in a sealed complaint filed in New
York, said in a statement that Tremont, its funds, affiliates
and owners including Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Co.
ignored obvious warning signs of fraud to maximize their own
profits and self-interest. The statement didn’t say how much
Picard was seeking from Tremont.  Victims’ Recovery  Any money recovered will be returned to Madoff’s victims on
a pro rata basis, Picard said.  Chris Cockerill , a Hong Kong-based spokesman for UBS, said
in an e-mail that the bank would take “all appropriate steps”
to show Picard’s latest allegations are “false and unfounded.”  Mark Cybulski , a spokesman for MassMutual, couldn’t
immediately be reached for comment.  Picard also sued former Tremont Capital Management Chief
Executive Officer  Sandra Manzke  and Maxam Capital Management
seeking more than $100 million.  Maxam, which Manzke started after she left Tremont in 2005,
invested more than $300 million of investors’ money with Madoff
in less than three years, Picard said in a complaint filed
yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan. He seeks a
return of almost $100 million that Maxam withdrew from Madoff as
well as fees the firm received.  ‘Stolen Money’  “Every dollar the Maxam defendants purportedly earned and
every dollar they kept to unjustly enrich themselves, their
funds or other investors, was other investors’ stolen money,”
Picard said in the complaint.  Manzke didn’t immediately respond to an e-mailed request
seeking comment yesterday. Jonathan Cogan, a lawyer who
represents Manzke in a separate securities lawsuit against
Tremont, also didn’t immediately return a call to his office
after regular business hours yesterday.  On Dec. 5, Picard sued  HSBC Holdings Plc  for $9 billion,
alleging Europe’s biggest lender enabled Madoff’s fraud. Last
week, the trustee sued  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  for $6.4 billion
over claims the New York-based bank aided and abetted the fraud.  Madoff, 72, who pleaded guilty, is serving a 150-year
sentence in federal prison in North Carolina.  At the time of his arrest, Madoff’s account statements
reflected 4,900 accounts with $65 billion in nonexistent
balances. Investors lost about $20 billion in principal.  The main case is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v.
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 08-01789, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The
London case is Madoff Securities International Ltd. v.  Stephen Ernest John Raven , 10-1468, High Court of Justice, Queen’s Bench
Division (London). The Maxam case is Irving Picard v. Maxam
Absolute Return Fund, 10-ap-5342, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan.)  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Edvard Pettersson  in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .
 Bob Van Voris  in U.S. District Court in Manhattan at +1-
   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 