-- Madoff Trustee's Bank Suits Questionable, Weil Gotshal Lawyer Miller Says
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   L i s a   M u r p h y
-- 2010-12-09T19:55:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/madoff-trustee-s-bank-suits-questionable-weil-gotshal-lawyer-miller-says.html
Harvey R. Miller , lead bankruptcy
lawyer for  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. , said lawsuits against
banks by the trustee liquidating  Bernard L. Madoff ’s firm “are
in a gray area” because it’s “not clear a financial
institution has fiduciary duties to investigate fraud and go out
and report it.”  Miller, a partner at  Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP  of New York,
spoke today in an interview about trustee  Irving Picard ’s suits
against banks to recover money for victims of Madoff’s fraud.  “I could ask the question, ‘Where was the SEC?’” Miller
said on Bloomberg Television’s “Fast Forward,” referring to
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. “Now you’re saying
banks had a duty to investigate Madoff.”  Citigroup Inc. ’s Citibank,  Bank of America Corp. ’s Merrill
Lynch unit and five other banks were sued yesterday in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan by the trustee, to recover more
than $1 billion for the con man’s defrauded customers. They
knew, or should have known, Madoff’s investments were a fraud,
Picard said in a statement.  He is demanding more than $18 billion from banks.  Picard last week sued JPMorgan Chase & Co., the Madoff
firm’s banker, for $6.4 billion over claims the second-biggest
U.S. bank aided and abetted the fraud.  This week he sued HSBC Holdings Plc, Europe’s biggest
lender, for $9 billion over claims it aided Madoff’s fraud
through a network of feeder funds in Europe, the Caribbean and
Central America.  UBS Suit  In November, the trustee sued UBS AG asking for at least
$2 billion, claiming the Swiss wealth-management firm also
helped Madoff in defrauding investors.  The banks have denied wrongdoing.  Weil Gotshal has been paid $245.8 million as Lehman’s lead
bankruptcy law firm in the first 25 1/2 months of the bank’s
Chapter 11 case, according to a court filing.  Picard’s law firm, Cleveland-based Baker Hostetler LLP, won
court approval of $34.6 million in legal fees for four months’
work from February through May, according to a September filing.  Picard faces a Dec. 11 deadline for filing suits to recover
false profits.  Madoff, 72, is serving a 150-year sentence in a North
Carolina federal prison after admitting he directed the biggest
Ponzi scheme in history. He was arrested and New York-based
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC forced into
bankruptcy when news of the fraud became known in December 2008.  At the time of his arrest, Madoff’s account statements
reflected 4,900 accounts with $65 billion in nonexistent
balances. Investors lost about $20 billion in principal.  The JPMorgan case is Picard v. JPMorgan Chase & Co., 10-ap-
4932, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Linda Sandler  in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .
 Lisa Murphy  in New York
at   lmurphy25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 