-- Lady Gaga in Wax, Weller Goes Punk, Comic Conti: London Weekend
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2010-12-09T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/lady-gaga-in-wax-paul-weller-goes-punk-conti-s-comic-owl-london-weekend.html
Paul Weller  is playing Wembley Arena
to round off a year in which he released “Wake Up the Nation,”
one of his best albums in a three-decade career.  The 52-year-old will perform Jam, Style Council and solo
songs right up to “Fast Car/Slow Traffic,” the 2010 recording
that reunites him with his former bandmate Bruce Foxton after 20
years -- a punky thrash that sounds like they made it as
teenagers in the 1970s.  Wembley Arena, HA9 0DW. Information: +44-20-8782-5566,
 http://www.whatsonwembley.com  or  http://www.paulweller.com   Saturday  Lady Gaga  -- the loopy chanteuse born Stefani Germanotta --
makes her splashy entrance at Madame Tussauds this weekend.  Her wax likeness will be one of eight shown across Tussauds
museums from Hong Kong to Las Vegas.  Brave the lines to check out her London look: Will she be
wearing the telephone hat, the lace body stocking, or the
soaring purple hair piece?  Information:  http://www.madametussauds.com  or
+44-871-894-3000.  Madame Tussauds is near one of London’s finest brasseries,
Galvin Bistrot de Luxe. Chef Chris Galvin is respected among his
peers for this reasonably priced venue:  http://bit.ly/wxdi5 .  Saturday Night  Nina Conti  will make a puppet of you if you let her. The
talked-about ventriloquist, 36 and heavily pregnant, hits the
stage with bags of folded-up dolls that she riotously brings to
life. There’s a swearing monkey, a snooty owl, a Scottish
granny, and a New York hag who does accents.  The final dummy in her act could be you, if you sit in the
front row. Conti will pull a cartoonish mask over your face, and
make you say and do things you never intended.  Conti is at the Soho Theatre, 21 Dean Street, London W1D
3NE, through Sunday. Information:  http://www.sohotheatre.com  or
+44-7478-0100.  You’re almost spoiled for choice dining near Soho Theatre.
Choose carefully, because there’s dross as well as gastronomic
gold. Koya is hard to beat for its inexpensive noodles and
friendly service:  http://www.koya.co.uk/ . If you fancy something
spicy, the Sichuan cuisine at Bar Shu is hot and authentic:
 http://www.bar-shu.co.uk/ .  Sunday  China’s emperors had a wardrobe to die for. Many of their
accoutrements have left China for the first time to be shown in
London.  As it turns out, the women in the Forbidden City got the
best outfits. Even the imperial concubines dressed well, though
they never upstaged the empress.  Look for the cute orange tunic-and-leggings combination in
the last window: It was six-year-old Emperor Tongzhi’s summer
suit, made in a tiger-skin design for good luck.  “Imperial Chinese Robes from the Forbidden City” is at
the Victoria & Albert Museum through Feb. 27, 2011. Information:
 http://www.vam.ac.uk  or + 44-20-7942-2000.  ( Farah Nayeri  writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Farah Nayeri  in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 