-- Afghan Women, Delivery of Aid Not Helped by Allied Military Gains, UN Says
-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 2010-12-09T20:04:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/afghan-women-delivery-of-aid-not-helped-by-allied-military-gains-un-says.html
U.S. and allied military gains in
Afghanistan have failed to yield corresponding progress in
delivery of humanitarian aid or protection of women from
violence and discrimination, the  United Nations  said.  Access of aid workers to areas of southern Afghanistan
where U.S.-led military  forces  are concentrating efforts to
defeat Taliban insurgents hasn’t improved and has worsened in
regions where the conflict has spread, UN Assistant Secretary-
General Catherine Bragg told reporters today in New York.  “Aid workers do not have access to roughly half of the
country,” Bragg, the deputy humanitarian relief coordinator,
said in a report on her trip last week to the capital Kabul and
the southern Kandahar Province, considered the heartland of the
Taliban.  “As the conflict spreads to other parts of the country,
other than the south, we are increasingly losing access,
particularly in the northern areas where we used to have
access,” Bragg said. “It is getting to be more and more of a
concern.”  The assessment follows recent trips to Afghanistan by U.S.
President  Barack Obama  and Britain’s Prime Minister  David Cameron  during which they said allied troops were succeeding in
their mission to defeat the Taliban. General  David Richards ,
Britain’s most senior military commander, said there has been
“an astronomical rate of progress.”  “The general agenda of security, governance and
development does not leave a whole lot of room for humanitarian
issues,” Bragg said. “Armed opposition groups are equally keen
to minimize the effect” of international aid.  Millions Need Food  Bragg said as many as eight million Afghans, almost a third
of the nation’s population, need food aid.  A UN report, released today in Kabul, said a law passed in
August 2009 to protect women from discrimination and violence
hasn’t improved their lives because it isn’t being enforced. The
law makes it a crime to buy and sell women for marriage and to
force a woman to marry without her consent.  “These harmful practices are widespread,”  Georgette Gagnon , director of human rights for the UN mission to
Afghanistan, said at a news conference today in Kabul, according
to a transcript provided by the UN. “Little meaningful and
sustainable progress for women’s rights can be achieved in
Afghanistan as long as women and girls are subject to these
practices.”  The report found that “law enforcement authorities often
are unwilling or unable to apply laws that protect women’s
rights and that such inaction is one of the main factors that
permits harmful traditional practices.” The police and
judiciary “take a selective rather than impartial approach to
administering justice.”  ‘Moral’ Crimes  The report said half of all girls are married under the age
of 15 and Afghanistan has the world’s worst maternal mortality
rate. Half of all women in prison were sentenced for “moral”
crimes such as running away from their husbands or families, the
UN said.  Obama last year ordered 30,000 more troops into the war.
The U.S. and its partners have fielded a combined force of
almost 150,000 to turn back Taliban advances and train enough
Afghan soldiers and police to take over starting in July.  More than 1,000 U.S. troops have been killed in the nine-
year conflict in Afghanistan, which harbored al-Qaeda before the
U.S. ousted the Taliban from power after the Sept. 11, 2001,
terror attacks on New York and the Pentagon.  Afghanistan’s ambassador to the UN didn’t respond to a
request for a comment on the UN reporting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  