-- Thailand's Debt Rating Outlook Raised to Stable by S&P on Fiscal Strength
-- B y   T o n y   J o r d a n   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2010-12-09T11:09:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/thai-debt-rating-affirmed-by-s-p-as-outlook-raised-to-stable-from-negative.html
The outlook on Thailand’s credit
rating was raised to stable from negative by Standard & Poor’s
Ratings Services, which cited the nation’s low level of
government debt and “prudent” fiscal policies. Bonds rose.  S&P affirmed its BBB+/A-2 foreign-currency and A-/A-2
local-currency sovereign credit ratings for Thailand, it said in
a statement today. The rating for Thailand’s foreign currency
long-term debt is on par with that of South Africa and the
Bahamas, according to Bloomberg data.  “Thailand’s real economy and the government’s fiscal
position have suffered little damage despite the political
uncertainties and unstable policy environment,” S&P said.
Exports have supported the country’s growth in 2010 after
political unrest killed at least 89 people in the first half.  Emerging-market nations from China to Brazil and Turkey are
winning upgrades or positive outlooks on their sovereign
rankings, highlighting the relative strength of developing
economies amid soaring debt burdens in advanced nations
including Japan. Moody’s Investors Service placed Indonesia’s
credit rating on review for a possible upgrade on Dec. 1.  “This news is positive for all Thai asset classes like
bonds and stocks,” said  Kozo Hasegawa , a Bangkok-based foreign-
exchange trader at Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. “This makes it
easier for investors to buy Thai assets.”  Bonds Climb  Government bonds gained. The yield on the 3.125 percent
debt due December 2015 slumped 15 basis points to 3.2 percent
from yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Thailand last week unexpectedly raised its  benchmark
interest rate  for the third time this year, signaling it views
inflation as a bigger threat than slowing growth. Southeast
Asia’s largest economy after Indonesia expanded 6.7 percent last
quarter from a year earlier.  Thailand’s BBB+ rating has been in place since August 2004.
It is the third-lowest investment grade and ranks Thailand above
neighboring Vietnam, Indonesia and the Philippines.  Moody’s raised its outlook on Thailand’s credit rating to
stable from negative on Oct. 28, citing an improvement in
government finances. The company last week placed Indonesia’s
Ba2 rating on review for a possible upgrade after raising the
outlook to positive in June.  Moody’s raised China’s debt rating to its fourth-highest
level of Aa3 on Nov. 11. A day later, S&P boosted the credit
ranking of the Philippines to the highest level in more than
seven years.  Ireland, Portugal  In contrast, Ireland, which became the second euro-area
country to get a bailout, saw its debt rating lowered two steps
by S&P on Nov. 23. S&P also placed Portugal’s long-term and
short-term foreign and local currency sovereign credit ratings
on “CreditWatch” with “negative implications” in November,
reflecting its inability to reduce its current-account deficit.  Thailand’s creditworthiness is supported by its position as
a net external creditor, its “prudent fiscal management, and
relatively light net government indebtedness,” S&P said in the
statement today.  Thailand’s foreign-exchange  reserves  will probably exceed
$170 billion by the end of 2010, and will act as a buffer
against economic and financial shocks, S&P said.  “S&P may lower the rating on Thailand if there are serious
and sustained declines in fiscal and economic indicators,” it
said today. “Conversely, we may raise the rating if Thailand’s
political situation returns to stable, which in turn would
improve economic growth prospects and the government’s fiscal
position.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Jordan  at   tjordan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  