-- Thai Premier Abhisit Survives Legal Bid to Dissolve Ruling Democrat Party
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2010-12-09T05:26:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/thai-premier-abhisit-survives-legal-bid-to-dissolve-ruling-democrat-party.html
Thailand’s Constitutional Court
dismissed a second dissolution case in as many weeks against
Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva ’s ruling party, clearing up
legal uncertainty that threatened to oust him from office.  “The Election Commission’s chairman, which is the
registrar of the case, failed to reach an opinion whether to
dissolve the Democrat Party,” court president Chat Chonlaworn
told the court. “Under the law, his opinion must be reached for
the commission to file the case to the court.”  Abhisit’s Democrat party faced disbandment on charges it
accepted an illegal 258 million baht ($8.5 million) donation
from  TPI Polene Pcl , the nation’s third-biggest cement maker.
The court threw out a separate dissolution case on Nov. 29 on
similar legal grounds.  The dismissal of both cases removes Abhisit’s biggest
threat to staying in office, while fueling claims from his
opponents that Thailand’s legal system is biased against them.
Both sides are gearing up for an election Abhisit must call in
2011 after a year that saw the country’s worst political
violence in two decades.  TPI Polene  shares  increased 4.1 percent as of 12:07 p.m.
local time to the highest level in a month. Thailand’s  SET Index ,
Asia’s third-best performer this year after Indonesia and Sri
Lanka, increased 0.9 percent.  Political Violence  Abhisit took power in 2008 after a court disbanded the
ruling party tied to ex-leader  Thaksin Shinawatra , who was
ousted in a 2006 coup. Thaksin’s supporters have protested
against his rule ever since, leading to violence that has
claimed 95 lives and injured more than 1,000 people this year.  The  constitution  was written by a military-appointed panel
after the 2006 coup. It allows a party to be disbanded and its
leaders banned for five years if one executive board member is
found guilty of a crime.  The Democrat party has implemented programs to refinance
loans and guarantee crop prices in a bid to win the most seats
in an election since 1992. Poorer voters in Thailand’s northeast
have helped Thaksin and his allies win the most seats in the
past four elections.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Ten Kate  in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
 Anuchit Nguyen  in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at   billaustin@bloomberg.net  