-- AIG Surges on Deal to Repay Federal Reserve, Wind Down Government Bailout
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2010-12-09T21:10:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/aig-jumps-most-in-six-months-on-deal-to-repay-fed-wind-down-u-s-bailout.html
American International Group Inc. ,
the bailed-out insurer, surged the most in 10 months after
making a deal that provides for repayment of the Federal Reserve
and sets the rules for its eventual exit from U.S. control.  AIG jumped $5.56, or 13 percent, to $47.78 at 4:01 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading, its highest price in
more than a year. The company was the biggest gainer in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  is seeking to
retire a U.S. bailout that ballooned to $182.3 billion last year
under his predecessor  Edward Liddy . He will use proceeds from
the sales of two non-U.S. life insurers to close a Fed credit
line. He’s counting on profits at AIG’s global property-casualty
coverage and U.S. life units to entice private investors to
replace the equity capital provided by the Treasury Department.  “I believe very strongly in the core fundamentals of the
firm,” said  Jonathan Hatcher , a Jefferies Group Inc. analyst.
“Maybe there was some uncertainty about how the U.S. government
exit plan was going to work, and I think we know a lot more
about it today than we did yesterday.”  Treasury, which invested about  $49 billion  in New York-
based AIG, plans to convert its preferred stake into 1.66
billion shares of common stock, or 92 percent of the total, by
March 15, according to statements from the department and the
insurer late yesterday. The securities will then be sold to
 private investors .  Treasury expects underwriters to be selected by early next
year for an offering of some of its stake, and will determine
how many shares to sell based on market conditions, according to
a person familiar with the plan.  AIG has advanced about 59 percent this year after falling
4.5 percent in 2009 and plunging 97 percent in 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  