-- Air Products Raises Airgas Offer to $5.9 Billion Before Poison Pill Ruling
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2010-12-09T18:45:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/air-products-increases-airgas-acquisition-offer-to-70-a-share-from-65-50.html
Air Products & Chemicals Inc.  raised
its hostile takeover bid for  Airgas Inc.  by 6.9 percent to $5.89
billion ahead of a judge’s ruling on whether to strip Airgas of
its so-called poison-pill defense.  The offer for each Airgas share was increased to $70 in
cash, from a $65.50 bid made in September, the Allentown,
Pennsylvania-based industrial-gas producer said today in a
statement. The bid is 61 percent more than Airgas’s closing
price on Feb. 4, the day before Air Products first made its
offer public.  Delaware Superior Court Judge  William B. Chandler III  has
yet to rule on Air Products’ challenge to Airgas’s poison pill,
which is designed to make a hostile takeover prohibitively
expensive by letting existing shareholders buy stock at a
discount. Chandler asked Air Products in a Dec. 2 letter to
indicate by Dec. 10 whether he should use the $65.50 bid or more
in ruling on the pill.  “We are today making our best and final offer for
Airgas,” Air Products Chief Executive Officer  John McGlade  said
in the statement. “The Air Products board has determined that
it is not in the best interests of Air Products shareholders to
pursue this transaction indefinitely and Airgas shareholders
should be aware that Air Products will not pursue this offer to
another Airgas shareholder meeting, whenever it may be held.”  First Bid  McGlade has tried since October 2009 to acquire the biggest
U.S. distributor of packaged gases and become the largest
industrial-gas company in North America. Airgas, led by founder
and CEO  Peter McCausland , has rejected earlier offers as too low
and has said his Radnor, Pennsylvania-based company is worth at
least $78 a share.  Airgas fell 9 cents to $65.88 before being halted in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Air Products  rose $1.57,
or 1.8 percent, to $88.63.  Shareholders in September elected three Air Products
nominees to Airgas’s board and voted to move up the next meeting
to January. The Delaware Supreme Court last month invalidated
the January meeting, reversing the lower court, saying it
improperly shortened directors’ terms. The ruling delays Air
Products’ effort to win a majority of seats on Airgas’ 10-member
board.  Air Products first offered to buy Airgas on Oct. 15, 2009.
Public bidding began in February at $60 a share. The offer was
raised on July 8 to $63.50 and increased again Sept. 6 to
$65.50.  Air Products, the second-biggest U.S. industrial-gases
producer after Danbury, Connecticut-based  Praxair Inc. , has said
Airgas is worth less than $70 a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jack Kaskey  in New York at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 