-- Airgas Slumps as Air Products' `Final' Offer of $70 a Share Falls $8 Short
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2010-12-09T20:08:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/airgas-slumps-as-air-products-final-offer-of-70-a-share-falls-8-short.html
Airgas Inc.  fell in New York trading
after  Air Products & Chemicals Inc.  raised its hostile takeover
bid to a “final” offer of $70 a share, less than the $78 price
that Airgas directors said their company is worth.  Airgas  dropped  $3.50, or 5.3 percent, to $62.47 at 2:44
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Air Products 
rose $1.12, or 1.3 percent, to $88.18.  The offer is valued at $5.89 billion, a 6.9 percent
increase from a $65.50 bid made in September, Allentown,
Pennsylvania-based Air Products said today in a statement. The
bid is 61 percent more than Airgas’s closing price on Feb. 4,
the day before the industrial-gas producer first made its
takeover proposal public.  “We are today making our best and final offer for Airgas,”
Air Products Chief Executive Officer  John McGlade  said in the
statement. “The Air Products board has determined that it is
not in the best interests of Air Products shareholders to pursue
this transaction indefinitely and Airgas shareholders should be
aware that Air Products will not pursue this offer to another
Airgas shareholder meeting, whenever it may be held.”  McGlade has tried since October 2009 to acquire the biggest
U.S. distributor of packaged gases and become the largest
industrial-gas company in North America. Airgas, led by founder
and CEO  Peter McCausland , has rejected earlier offers as too low
and it has said the Radnor, Pennsylvania-based company is worth
at least $78 a share.  ‘Actually Means It’  “It’s ‘the best and final offer,’ so people are concerned
that he actually means it,”  Louis Meyer , a New York-based
analyst at Oscar Gruss & Son Inc., said in a telephone
interview. “Airgas will most likely reject the $70 offer.”  Airgas said today in a statement it advises investors to
take no action until the company has reviewed the revised bid.  Delaware Superior Court Judge  William B. Chandler III  has
yet to rule on Air Products’ challenge to Airgas’s so-called
poison pill defense, which is designed to make a hostile
takeover prohibitively expensive by letting existing
shareholders buy stock at a discount. Chandler asked Air
Products in a Dec. 2 letter to indicate by tomorrow whether he
should use the $65.50 bid or more in ruling on the poison pill.  Air Products is unlikely to get the poison pill overturned,
and a majority of shareholders may not tender their stock for
$70 even if the suit is successful, said  Laurence Alexander , a
New York-based analyst at Jefferies & Co.  “Air Products says $70 and Airgas says $78 and it’s
unclear how they are going to close that gap,” Alexander said
today in an interview.  Battle Over Board  Airgas shareholders in September elected three Air Products
nominees to Airgas’s board and voted to move up the next
shareholders meeting to January. The Delaware Supreme Court last
month invalidated the January meeting, reversing the lower
court, saying it improperly shortened directors’ terms. The
ruling delays Air Products’ effort to win a majority of seats on
Airgas’s 10-member board.  Air Products first offered to buy Airgas on Oct. 15, 2009.
The first bid, made public in February, was $60 a share. The
offer was raised on July 8 to $63.50 and increased again on
Sept. 6 to $65.50.  Air Products is the second-biggest U.S. industrial-gases
producer after Danbury, Connecticut-based  Praxair Inc.   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jack Kaskey  in New York at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 