-- Alan Pardew Named as Newcastle Soccer Manager, Succeeds Chris Hughton
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2010-12-09T18:10:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/alan-pardew-named-as-newcastle-soccer-manager-succeeds-chris-hughton.html
Newcastle United appointed  Alan Pardew  as manager to succeed  Chris Hughton , who was fired three
days ago.  Pardew, 49, signed a 5 1/2-year contract, the English
Premier League soccer club said. He previously managed Reading,
West Ham, Charlton and Southampton after a playing career that
included spells at Crystal Palace and Charlton.  He said he may face a battle to be accepted by Newcastle
fans, many of whom were upset over Hughton’s departure and
opposed Pardew’s appointment.  “I’m privileged to be sitting here and looking forward to
a tough job,” Pardew said at a televised news conference. “But
it’s difficult because it’s fairly obvious the players and fans
had tremendous respect for Chris and the fact he’s gone
has caused something of a stir.”  Newcastle, promoted from the Championship at the end of
last season, is 12th in the league, having won five of 16 games.
It lost 3-1 at West Brom last weekend. Pardew’s first game is at
home against Liverpool in two days.  “The problem I’m going to have initially is the players. I
need to get my message across quickly and with clarity so as not
to get any resentment at a time when they are doing reasonably
well,” Pardew said.  After several managerial changes in the quick succession,
Hughton had restored a degree of stability in securing the
Magpies’ return to the top league a year after relegation.
However, the club said this week it wanted a more experienced
coach.  `You Must Be Mad'  Pardew said his acceptance of the job had received a
skeptical reaction from other managers.  “I’ve had a lot of texts from managers saying, ‘You must
be mad going in there’ but it’s a massive club, one of the top
five in the country I’d suggest,” he told reporters. “I’d
never be able to live with myself if I didn’t take that on.”  Pardew led West Ham to promotion to the Premier League in
2005 and the F.A. Cup final in 2006, but was fired in December
that year.  He then took over at Charlton, which was struggling in the
top flight, and was unable to keep it in the Premier League. He
left the Addicks in November 2008 and took over at third-tier
Southampton in mid-2009, leading the club to victory in the
Johnstone’s Paint Trophy in March this year.  The Saints finished one place off the playoff spots in
2009-10, having started the season with a 10-point penalty. They
dismissed Pardew in August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter-Joseph Hegarty  in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  