-- Anschutz Aims for NFL Decision on Los Angeles Team in Next Three Months
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2010-12-09T05:00:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/anschutz-aims-for-nfl-decision-on-los-angeles-team-in-3-months.html
Anschutz Entertainment Group
will fund construction of a $1 billion stadium and try to
lure one of the National Football League’s 32 teams to Los
Angeles, AEG Chief Executive Officer  Tim Leiweke  said.  AEG, the closely held company controlled by Denver
billionaire  Philip Anschutz , aims to reach an agreement
with the NFL in the next three months for a Los Angeles-
based team, Leiweke said yesterday at a lunch for downtown
Los Angeles businesses.  AEG wants to build a 65,000-seat stadium on the site
of the western hall of the  Los Angeles Convention Center ,
adjacent to the company’s L.A. Live entertainment district,
Leiweke said. AEG is in talks with city officials and in
January will submit plans and begin the permit process, he
said. The company would replace the convention space
displaced by the stadium.  “We’re going to give this our best shot over the next
three months,” Leiweke told the audience at the JW
Marriott Los Angeles hotel. “This is the second-largest
marketplace in the United States and we’re going to act
like it.”  AEG’s announcement comes as NFL team owners are
looking for ways to reach a new labor agreement with
players. Teams are preparing for a possible disruption of
next season if those efforts are unsuccessful, Commissioner
 Roger Goodell  told reporters on Oct. 13.  The downtown Los Angeles stadium also faces
competition. Majestic Realty Co. Chairman  Ed Roski Jr.  has
agreed to build a stadium in City of Industry, California,
as soon as he can lure a team to Southern California.  Light-Rail Connections  Leiweke said AEG will narrow 12 proposed designs for
the stadium to two or three by January. AEG will add 4,000
parking spaces, bringing the total in the area to more than
32,000, and incorporate light-rail connections, he said.  Sales at AEG’s L.A. Live entertainment district, which
includes restaurants, nightclubs, the Nokia Live Theatre
and the Staples Center arena, will exceed $100 million this
year, Leiweke said. The JW Marriott, which AEG financed, is
averaging 87 percent occupancy, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andy Fixmer  in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  