-- Arabica-Coffee Price Rise `Inevitable' as Supplies Drop, Ganes-Chhase Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-09T09:58:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/arabica-price-rise-inevitable-as-stockpiles-dwindle-ganes-chase-says.html
Prices of arabica, the world’s most-
grown coffee, will extend a rally as world stockpiles dwindle,
said Judith Ganes-Chase, a former Merrill Lynch & Co. analyst.  “There continues to be too much rain in several countries
and so it might be inevitable that the market needs to keep
going up,” Ganes-Chase, who runs a consulting firm in Katonah,
New York, said in an interview in Ho Chi Minh City today. She
didn’t offer a specific forecast.  Arabica futures in New York soared to a 13-year high of
$2.2145 a pound on Nov. 10 and have increased 51 percent this
year. Robusta-coffee futures in London have jumped 46 percent
this year, and advanced to $2,098 a metric ton on Nov. 9, the
highest level in more than two years, as rains delayed the
Vietnam harvest.  “This past two years we have had production difficulties
and several stockpiles basically hit bottom, where supply in
producer countries really can’t drop much more than they are,”
said Ganes-Chase, who has more than 20 years experience in
agricultural commodities. “The market is going to remain
vulnerable to supply shocks in the months ahead.”  Coffee stockpiles in producing nations dropped to about 12
million bags this year, the lowest level since the London-based
International Coffee Organization began keeping records in the
1960s, Jose Sette, the ICO’s executive director, said in an
interview on Nov. 4.  ‘Acute’ Shortfall  World arabica stockpiles entering the 2011-2012 season will
be “fairly low,” VM Group said in a quarterly report published
with ABN Amro on Nov. 30. Brazil, the world’s largest grower,
expects its arabica output to drop next year as its trees “go
into the ‘off’ period of their biannual cycle,” according to
the report. Brazil’s coffee production is subject to an
alternating cycle, where trees produce less every other year.  “As we go into the 2011 season with historically low world
stock levels, and with Brazil entering its lower yielding year
of its biennial cycle, we fear that the global coffee supply
shortfall will become very acute indeed,” Macquarie Group Ltd
said in a report distributed Nov. 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Van Nguyen in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 vnguyen23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  