-- Fink Builds BlackRock Powerhouse Without Goldman Sachs Backlash
-- B y   S h e e l a h   K o l h a t k a r   a n d   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 2010-12-09T22:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/larry-fink-builds-blackrock-into-powerhouse-without-goldman-sachs-backlash.html
As chairman and chief executive
officer of BlackRock Inc., Larry Fink controls more money than
Germany has gross domestic product.  BlackRock is the world’s biggest asset-management firm, a
$3.45 trillion powerhouse that is Wall Street’s largest trading
partner, set to pay investment banks $1 billion in fees this
year. It manages $1.4 trillion for public pension funds in
states including New York, New Jersey and California, and
invests $240 billion for central banks and sovereign wealth
funds such as the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority.  The company serves as the U.S. Treasury Department’s go-to
source for private-sector financial expertise and managed at
least $150 billion in toxic assets on behalf of U.S. taxpayers
after the 2008 bailouts of American International Group Inc. and
Bear Stearns Cos. While running the company is a team effort,
Fink, 58, is BlackRock’s brain, and BlackRock, increasingly, is
Wall Street’s, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Dec. 13
edition.  “There’s no bank, no sovereign wealth fund, no insurance
company that’s as large as BlackRock,” says Ralph Schlosstein, a
co-founder who left in 2007 and is now CEO of Evercore Partners
Inc., a New York-based investment bank. “BlackRock today is one
of, if not the, most influential financial institutions in the
world.”  In light of all this, it’s surprising how few people beyond
Wall Street are familiar with Larry Fink and BlackRock. Founded
in 1988 as a bond-trading shop, BlackRock has somehow reached
financial omnipotence while remaining out of the public eye,
escaping the scorn, and the acclaim, so often heaped on the
nation’s premier investment bank, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Investors, Not Traders  Although BlackRock competes with Goldman’s much smaller
asset-management unit, the two firms are fundamentally
different. That’s because trading, not investing, makes up most
of Goldman’s business, and Goldman is known as a place where
executives achieve mind-boggling wealth.  BlackRock is focused on the less lucrative work of
investing money for individuals and institutions such as pension
plans, endowments and foundations through mutual funds,
exchange-traded funds and separately managed accounts. It makes
most of its money through management fees rather than by taking
positions for itself. On Wall Street, where boring is suddenly
better, Fink is the newly minted nerd king.  Still, there are two things that Goldman has, or used to
have, that Fink and his BlackRock co-founders -- Rob Kapito, 53,
Susan Wagner, 48, and Charles Hallac, 46 -- covet: a prestigious
brand and a permanent spot in the public consciousness.  Pep Talk  On an October afternoon, recognition is very much on Fink’s
mind as he prepares to address his 8,900 worldwide employees in
one of his quarterly “state of the state” pep talks. The
atmosphere crackles inside the company’s seventh-floor
conference room in Manhattan, where an oval table and a wall of
monitors show live footage of BlackRock offices around the
world, giving the place the feel of the White House’s situation
room. One end of the table remains conspicuously empty until two
young men in blue dress shirts sit down.  “Dude,” jokes a third, seated on a bench against the wall,
“you realize Larry’s gonna be sitting right there? Can you
handle the pressure?” The two scramble into other chairs.  Moments later, Fink walks in with a slightly sheepish
affect and takes his seat.  “Good morning, everyone,” he says, holding a single sheet
of paper. “I’m not here to tell you we’re perfect. We have
problems, as all firms do.”  Talking Points  He talks about BlackRock’s quarterly performance (“We grew
by 9 percent”); the company’s recent, slightly troubled
integration of Barclays Global Investors, the U.K.-based money
manager BlackRock bought for $15.2 billion in 2009 (“It’s clear
to me that we have a firm that’s more cohesive than ever”); and
the current share price (“I think the market is dead wrong in
terms of where our stock is trading”).  The rhetoric is hardly soaring, but Fink exudes confidence.
He tries to excite his audience with descriptions of the firm’s
success and power and the need for all employees to try harder.  “We have a giant responsibility,” he says. “We have to not
just focus on $3.4 trillion of assets being managed, but who
we’re managing for -- maybe it’s your parents, maybe it’s a
school teacher or a fireman.” The company is “connected to the
entire world in what we do.  Finally, Fink returns to one of his favorite themes, an
issue that drives him and keeps him awake at night: the chronic
underappreciation of his company.  Risk-Management Skills  “We need to continue to build the BlackRock brand,” he
says. “And, hopefully someday, your families will know what
BlackRock is.”  As the financial crisis turned the Wall Street power
structure on its head, BlackRock offered something valuable --
the ability to analyze risk, especially bond risk and mortgage-
bond risk. The company had been collecting data on mortgages
since 1994, when the market was much smaller than it is today.  Suddenly, the possession of all this information made
BlackRock important beyond its size. As bank executives and
government officials woke up to the horror of toxic mortgage
debt hiding on balance sheets around the world, BlackRock was
one of the few entities that could actually figure out what the
stuff was worth -- and could do so without presenting a
competitive threat.  Bailout Backup  “Expertise would have been irrelevant without the trust,”
says Terrence Keeley, a former managing director of UBS AG,
which hired BlackRock to analyze a $22 billion portfolio of debt
that it later sold to the firm. The company helped the U.S.
Treasury Department and the Federal Reserve with the government-
backed buyout of Bear Stearns by JPMorgan Chase & Co. as well
the bailouts of American International Group Inc., Citigroup
Inc., Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.  BlackRock was also lucky, because asset-management firms
have barely been affected by the new post-crisis regulations
that are causing terror across boardrooms.  While it made its share of mistakes before and after the
crisis -- including significant losses in funds that invest in
real estate and mortgage-backed securities -- the company has
only gained power and prestige since 2007 and this year is
expected by analysts to earn almost $2 billion on $4.7 billion
of revenue.  Last year, Fink was one of the highest-paid chief
executives on post-bailout Wall Street, with $15.9 million in
compensation, according to data from the Securities and Exchange
Commission, while Goldman CEO Lloyd Blankfein got $862,657, down
from $41 million in 2008.  Acquiring Stature  One of the ways BlackRock became so huge -- swamping its
nearest competitors, State Street Corp. and Pacific Investment
Management Co. -- was by swallowing other companies. In 2004 it
purchased State Street Research & Management (no relation to
State Street) for $375 million from MetLife Inc.; two years
later it acquired Merrill Lynch & Co.’s investment unit for $9
billion, bringing its assets above the $1 trillion mark. In
February, while BlackRock was digesting Barclays Global, it
filed paperwork with the SEC reporting stakes of more than 5
percent in 1,800 companies, temporarily paralyzing the SEC’s
electronic database.  As it expands its reach into equity and bond markets around
the world, the company wants to introduce its own trading
platform, which would help BlackRock match buy and sell orders
to save money for clients, reducing its dependence on Wall
Street brokers and cutting the fees it sends to them each year.
BlackRock has also started a capital markets unit to help its
customers invest directly in corporate debt offerings, which
will allow it to negotiate better terms.  Massachusetts Pulls Money  “With $3 trillion-plus in assets, it’s safe to assume
BlackRock can pull it off,” says Marc Irizarry, an analyst at
Goldman Sachs in New York.  BlackRock recently has been in the headlines for the wrong
reasons: On Dec. 7, the Massachusetts state pension fund pulled
$1 billion from the company, citing dissatisfaction with its
performance and the departure of key executives. Investors
withdrew $64 billion from the company’s funds in the first half
of this year, and BlackRock’s shares have plummeted 26 percent.  There are those who say BlackRock, as with Goldman Sachs
before it, has too much sway over the financial system. Others
suggest that its ascent is part of an inevitable reshaping of
Wall Street.  Buyers’ World  “The balance of power has shifted generally to buyers as
opposed to sellers, and people like BlackRock, who control large
investment funds, will find themselves in a position of power,”
says Peter Solomon, a former vice chairman of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. who now runs his own New York investment bank.
“What they do with that power would be worth noting. You see the
White House calling them, and I can guarantee that they’re not
totally passive with their influence.”  When BlackRock rearranged its offices earlier this year,
expanding onto several additional floors on East 52nd Street,
Fink decided not to radically redecorate his new space. “Same
furniture, exactly the same maker,” he says, gesturing around
the room and chuckling. No $2 million renovation? “No. I don’t
believe in that.”  Still, the surroundings are hardly shabby. In addition to
the L-shaped desk sprinkled with family photos, there are potted
orchids, shelves of books displayed like trophies and paintings
from Fink’s personal collection of American folk art on the
walls. He and his wife, Lori, have three children and live
primarily in Manhattan, although they also own homes in North
Salem, N.Y., an hour north of the city, and Aspen, Colorado.  Discounting Goldman Comparison  Perched on a cream-colored armchair in his office, Fink is
a disarming presence. Leaning forward with elbows on knees, his
face reacting to questions with cartoonishly exaggerated
expressions, he’s less like a master of the universe than a
master of the water cooler -- albeit one who discourses on
unemployment rates and the intricacies of quantitative easing.  He brushes off the Goldman Sachs comparison. “They’re in
such a different business,” he says. “I don’t want to be in that
business.”  But the recent history and fates of the two companies are
inextricable. BlackRock raised $126 million in an initial public
offering, to little fanfare, in September 1999 -- the same year
Goldman staged its own $3.7 billion IPO. Eleven years later,
BlackRock’s stock is up 1,110 percent, compared with a
200 percent increase for Goldman. Fink is a warmly received
guest of politicians and policy makers in Washington, some of
whom wouldn’t risk being caught chumming around with Blankfein.  A Little Fearsome  “I think in some cases, people could be a little frightened
of us,” Fink says. “Goldman Sachs is a great partner of
BlackRock’s, and yet we compete bitterly against each other,
too, in the asset-management side. We use them as a
counterparty, and we do a lot of trades with them.” But, he
says, “we are very different. This is who we want to be.”  Proprietary trading helped banks rake in enormous gains
during the stock market boom that peaked in October 2007. Fink
said BlackRock shouldn’t use its balance sheet for anything but
co-investments alongside investors, a distinctly un-Goldman-like
strategy. He says he rejects the idea of expanding BlackRock’s
reach by moving closer to an investment bank or securities firm
approach.  “Wall Street’s about velocity of money,” Fink says. “And as
velocity of money became more and more important, relationships
became less and less important, and as Wall Street started to
realize they could make more money by ‘balance sheeting’ things,
it became less client-centric.” He says, “I wanted to do
something different, and that was being client-centric.”  Lobbying Lawmakers  One consequence of BlackRock’s prominence is that, like
Goldman Sachs, the firm has to work to avoid the perception of
arrogance. As implementation of the financial reform bill is
being worked out by various regulatory agencies in Washington,
BlackRock, in what seems like an audacious move to people
including Janet Tavakoli, has lobbied to be excluded from the
definition of a “systemically important” firm to avoid more
stringent regulatory oversight, arguing that it does not have
balance sheet risk.  “When you’re big enough, you do pose a systemic risk. Like
Fannie and Freddie, their portfolios are so large, any move they
make moves the market,” says Tavakoli, a structured-finance
consultant. “BlackRock can’t have it all ways, and so far
they’ve escaped without so much as a whisper about their
reputation, which right now isn’t looking too good from where I
sit.”  Bank of America  BlackRock has also proven that it won’t be shy about
confronting the world’s biggest financial institutions to defend
its turf. In October the company was part of a group including
Pimco and the New York Federal Reserve that sent a letter to
Bank of America Corp., then BlackRock’s biggest shareholder,
seeking to force the bank to repurchase soured mortgages
packaged by its Countrywide Financial unit into $47 billion of
bonds. Bank of America reduced its stake in BlackRock from
34 percent to about 7.1 percent as federal regulators pushed it
to improve its balance sheet. Fink refuses to discuss the demand
letter, except to say that his firm has a duty to ensure that
the securities purchased on behalf of BlackRock’s clients are
what the bank claimed they were.  None of the controversy surrounding the company prevented
it from effectively becoming an adjunct of the U.S. government.
As the financial system creaked under the weight of toxic
mortgage debt in 2007, Fink and other BlackRock executives
became regular sounding boards for Timothy Geithner, then
chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, and Federal
Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke. Both have remained in regular
contact with Fink, according to phone records made public by the
agencies.  Calling for Help  BlackRock’s first assignment came as the subprime-mortgage
collapse triggered withdrawals from a money-market fund managed
by the Florida Local Government Investment Pool. BlackRock was
chosen over JPMorgan, Goldman Sachs and Barclays Plc to salvage
the fund by separating the good assets from those that couldn’t
be sold, for a $125,000 fee.  As Bear Stearns fell apart in March 2008, JPMorgan CEO
Jamie Dimon had a BlackRock team of 50 analysts work through the
weekend to evaluate Bear Stearns’s most illiquid assets. At the
end of the weekend, Geithner called Fink to ask him to manage
$30 billion in bad mortgage debt that had been carved out from
Bear Stearns’s books before its healthier parts were sold to
JPMorgan. BlackRock played a similar role with AIG, Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac.  The fees that BlackRock earns from these assignments were
disclosed last year after Republican Senator Chuck Grassley of
Iowa and others expressed outrage over the lack of competitive
bidding in the awarding of the government contracts and the
potential for conflicts of interest. BlackRock is set to earn at
least $120 million from the Fed over a three-year period.  Dual Role  In July, Grassley reiterated questions about the dual role
of BlackRock in advising the Federal Reserve and being one of
the eight investment firms selected to buy assets under the
Public-Private Investment Program. In a letter to Neil Barofsky,
the special inspector general of the Troubled Asset Relief
Program, Grassley asked the auditor about any findings the
agency has made about potential conflicts of interest.  While BlackRock was advising the government on the value of
some toxic assets, it and other firms such as Pimco were buying
similar securities through their investment units. The company
also drew $3.8 billion from the Fed’s Term Asset-Backed
Securities Loan Facility, or TALF. The firm has repaid all but
$221 million of the funds to the government. BlackRock used the
program to give its fund clients the investment opportunity,
said Bobbi Collins, a spokeswoman for the firm. Its investment
funds don’t have access to information that isn’t publicly
available and that it has procedures in place to wall off its
advisory and fund units, she said.  Original Idea  “If it were a calmer period, would there have been a better
process? Maybe,” says Fink. “We were in these moments where four
hours made a difference. I would like those people who criticize
to have been there to witness what was going on at that time.”
He says, “This could be some of my hubris, but I believe we
might have been the only firm that could have done it.”  BlackRock was born in 1988 out of a concept that’s obvious
now but was somewhat novel at the time: risk management is
crucial. “I think we caught an idea before people recognized
that it was an important idea,” Fink says. “We believe that
fully understanding what you’re investing in is very important.”
Asked where this lightning bolt came from, Fink laughs and says:
“Losing money.”  California Guy  Fink grew up in Van Nuys, California, the son of a shoe
salesman and an English professor. He attended the University of
California, Los Angeles business school before joining First
Boston -- now part of Credit Suisse Group AG -- where he traded
bonds in the 1980s. His work slicing and pooling mortgage bonds,
then selling them to investors as securities called
collateralized mortgage obligations, has today mushroomed into a
$2 trillion market. Fink’s department became the most profitable
at First Boston, and at 31 he was made the youngest-ever
managing director at the firm, as well as the youngest member of
its executive committee.  His rise ended abruptly in 1986, shortly after his 33rd
birthday. During the first quarter, an investment he’d made had
resulted in a $100 million profit; the following quarter, his
division lost more than $100 million as interest rates fell
unexpectedly. Fink says he became a pariah.  “I knew intellectually how much risk we were taking, but I
didn’t have the tools to truly understand it,” he says. “We were
loved when we made the hundred-plus million dollars the first
quarter; they hated us when we lost $100 million.” He says,
“We should have been fired for making all the money and not
understanding how we were making it! It was a big lesson, at 33
years old.”  Blackstone Backing  He left First Boston under a cloud less than two years
later and started BlackRock with Schlosstein, a former Lehman
trader. The firm began its life in the headquarters of its first
financial backer, Blackstone Group LP, which gave BlackRock a
$5 million line of credit for a 40 percent stake. The fledgling
firm’s mission was obscure but simple: to help investors
understand the risks in their bond portfolios. “In April of
1988, people would say, ‘Risk management for bonds?’ They looked
at us like we were crazy,” says Susan Wagner, who joined the
firm at its inception and is now a BlackRock vice chairman.
“Today, that model has been validated.”  The firm accumulated about $20 billion in assets by 1994.
While business was picking up, the relationship between
BlackRock and Blackstone became tense. Fink had a falling out
with Blackstone co-founder Stephen Schwarzman that same year
over BlackRock’s independence, resulting in the sale of
BlackRock to PNC Financial Services Group Inc. of Pittsburgh for
$240 million.  GE Breakthrough  The real breakthrough for the company came in 1995, when it
helped General Electric Co. value and dispose of a $10 billion
portfolio of distressed mortgage securities, saving $1 billion
for GE and establishing BlackRock’s reputation. By 2000, Fink
saw a chance to build out the firm’s analytics into a separate
business, called BlackRock Solutions. The unit offers a risk-
management system called Aladdin and now employs more than 800
people with degrees ranging from economics and engineering to
mathematics and nuclear physics.  Aladdin can analyze stocks, bonds and derivatives, though
what makes it particularly valuable is the work it can do on
mortgage-related bonds, the area that Fink helped develop in the
1980s. The system categorizes and assigns a value to each
mortgage bond in an investor’s portfolio based on location, Zip
Code and dozens of other criteria, says Charles Hallac, a co-
founder and the head of BlackRock Solutions, which accounts for
about 5 percent of the firm’s fees.  Power of Aladdin  On a green-and-white computer screen on his desk, he
demonstrates what clients see when they log into the Aladdin
system: the value that BlackRock has assigned to each individual
security they’ve invested in, while modeling the value of the
security for scenarios such as a repeat of the 2008 credit
crisis, a falling U.S. dollar or the breakout of an Asian flu
pandemic. As the financial crisis worked its way through the
system, Aladdin was a big reason why BlackRock was summoned by
governments and financial institutions around the world.  By 2008, BlackRock had started moving away from the
riskiest bonds two years before and came through the worst
market since the Great Depression without posting a loss,
although not all of its investors fared as well. The firm
managed to squeeze out a profit of $54 million in the last
quarter of 2008, as the collapse of Lehman Brothers and the
ensuing market paralysis shocked Wall Street. This put the
company in a good position to pounce on Barclays Global, a deal
that was hatched by Fink lieutenant Rob Kapito at a Yankees
game.  Missteps Taken  Goldman Sachs, meanwhile, lost $2.1 billion in the last
three months of 2008, its first-ever quarterly loss. The
investment bank also accepted $10 billion in bailout funds from
the U.S. government that year.  BlackRock isn’t immune to outside forces. Investors in the
preferred shares of its closed-end funds saw their investments
frozen as the auction-rate market collapsed in 2008. Some
distressed-debt strategies, created before the market meltdown,
sank millions of dollars into loans that continued to lose value
as markets tanked. And for all its expertise in evaluating
fixed-income assets, BlackRock’s own long-term track record in
the area has been mediocre. In the three years ended Sept. 30,
funds representing only 55 percent of BlackRock’s fixed-income
assets had beaten their respective benchmarks.  CDO Losses  “BlackRock had a bit of a stumble in their bond funds in
2008, as there was a failure to anticipate that the global
unwind would take out everything except government bonds,” says
Eric Jacobson, a Morningstar Inc. fund analyst in Chicago. “I
think the lesson they and many others learned is that
ultimately, despite a good risk-management system, it’s the
quality of active management that will carry you to the next
step.”  Critics such as Tavakoli also say that BlackRock’s dismal
performance as a manager of certain collateralized-debt
obligations during the height of the real estate bubble raises
questions about whether the company should be trusted with
massive amounts of government assets. According to Tavakoli’s
research, several deals worth billions overall that BlackRock
put together went bust; problems in the mortgage market were
already evident, and financial institutions were scrambling to
keep the securitization money train running by executing deals
that were sure to fail.  “When I look at their track record with CDOs, I think there
were gravely serious questions,” she says. “They’re too close to
the problem to merit getting any no-bid contracts” from the
government.  Stuyvesant Town  “Given the magnitude of the Great Recession and the
corresponding collapse in real estate markets, we are
disappointed with the return experience of CDOs with real estate
exposure,” Collins, the BlackRock spokeswoman, says.  The company had about $9.6 billion in CDO assets as of
Sept. 30 of this year. Fink says he thinks the government will
end up making money on the toxic AIG and Bear Stearns assets
BlackRock managed.  In one of the company’s most public humiliations, it also
lost money in Stuyvesant Town-Peter Cooper Village, a Manhattan
apartment complex acquired by in 2006 by BlackRock’s real estate
unit and Tishman Speyer Properties LP. One of BlackRock’s
investors, the California Public Employees Retirement System,
lost $500 million on the deal, prompting Fink to personally
apologize to the board of the state pension fund.  “For the clients for whom we made mistakes, we’re guilty,”
Fink says. “It still gnaws at me that we failed them.”  ‘Swoosh’ Recovery  Back in his office, Fink is less than dire about the future
of the teachers and firefighters whose causes he likes to
publicly champion.  “I’m much more constructive than the consensus,” he says,
“I never felt the economy was going to have this V shape; I
always talked about the swoosh economy. And that’s what it is.
It’s still the Nike swoosh economy. At the end of the swoosh it
goes up. It’s just a longer swoosh part, and that’s where we
are.”  How far he rides that swoosh is a question of increasing
importance, and the subject of much speculation. Fink says that
the time is coming when he won’t run BlackRock. He aspires to
someday enter public service if the right opportunity presents
itself, though he isn’t specific about what that opportunity
might be. As he ruminates on the future, he jumps up to fetch a
blue binder from his bookshelf.  “We do a 360 review of every leader,” he says, opening the
book. “This is really intense stuff.”  He starts to read an anonymous comment contributed by
another BlackRock executive: “Overall, I’d give Larry a 96 out
of 100,” he begins. Then, “I worry about Larry. I love that he’s
client focused, but one day he’s going to keel over. In flying
all around the world, he insists on taking commercial
transportation. We should probably get him a plane.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sheelah Kolhatkar in New York at 
 skolhatkar@bloomberg.net ;
Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 