-- Asian Currencies Strengthen, Led by Korean Won, on Regional Growth Outlook
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2010-12-09T09:16:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/asian-currencies-strengthen-led-by-korean-won-on-regional-growth-outlook.html
Asian currencies rose, led by South
Korea’s won, after Japan said its economy expanded more than
initially estimated in the third quarter and hiring picked up in
Australia, brightening the outlook for regional growth.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index rebounded from its
lowest level in a week before a report tomorrow that may show
China’s exports increased for a 12th month, according to a
Bloomberg News survey. Eight of Asia’s 10 most-active currencies
outside of Japan also gained on optimism tax cuts in the U.S.
will spur demand for the region’s exports.  “The relative tone for Asian currencies should remain
supported,” said  Enrico Tanuwidjaja , a Singapore-based
economist at OSK-DMG Group. “Growth is likely to emanate from
this part of the world.”  The won climbed 0.6 percent to 1,139.40 per dollar in Seoul,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Singapore dollar
rose 0.2 percent to S$1.3119 as of 5:13 p.m. local time and the
Philippine peso advanced 0.2 percent to 43.69.  Japan’s gross domestic product grew at an annualized 4.5
percent pace in the last quarter, faster than the 3.9 percent
previously reported, the Cabinet Office said today in Tokyo.
Australian employers added 54,600 jobs in November, more than
double the median 20,000 increase forecast in a Bloomberg survey
of economists, government data showed today.  Export Growth  China’s  exports  climbed 23.6 percent from a year earlier,
following 22.9 percent growth in October, a separate survey
showed before data tomorrow. Taiwan’s shipments climbed 21.8
percent from a year earlier, compared with a 21.9 percent gain
in October, the Ministry of Finance reported on Dec. 7.  “U.S. tax cuts boost consumption, therefore demand for
exports from Asia would benefit,” said  Dariusz Kowalczyk ,
senior economist at Credit Agricole CIB in Hong Kong.  The won was boosted by the lack of escalation in tensions
with North Korea, Kowalczyk said. The currency fell 1.3 percent
yesterday, snapping a five-day rally, after Yonhap News reported
that North Korea fired artillery shells near the border. The
South’s central bank left borrowing costs unchanged today,
leaving the seven-day repurchase rate at 2.5 percent. The
decision was forecast by all 10 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Governor Kim Choong Soo predicts Asia’s fourth-largest
economy will expand about 4.5 percent in 2011, decelerating from
a 6 percent pace this year, with inflation accelerating to 3.4
percent from 3 percent in 2010. The won gained 6.4 percent last
quarter, the second-best performance among Asian currencies
excluding the yen.  Taiwan Intervention  Taiwan’s dollar appreciated 0.5 percent to NT$30.555
against its U.S. counterpart, according to Taipei Forex Inc. The
currency was about 2 percent stronger two minutes before the end
of the trading session, before paring its gain on suspected
intervention.  The Central Bank of the Republic of China (Taiwan) bought
the U.S. dollar almost every day since April to check
appreciation in the local currency, according to traders
familiar with the monetary authority’s operations who asked not
to be identified because policy makers don’t usually disclose
details of market operations.  Elsewhere, Malaysia’s ringgit rose 0.1 percent to 3.1395
per dollar, Thailand’s baht gained 0.2 percent to 30.06, and
Indonesia’s rupiah increased 0.1 percent to 9,018.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lilian Karunungan  in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 