-- Ratan Tata Says India Telecom Probe Needs to Be Extended to 2001
-- B y   A n o o p   A g r a w a l   a n d   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2010-12-09T13:41:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/tata-says-india-needs-to-extend-telecommunications-investigation-to-2001.html
Ratan Tata , chairman of India’s Tata
Group, said the ongoing investigation into sale of wireless
permits two years ago should be extended to 2001.  “I support the ongoing investigations and believe that the
period of investigation be extended to 2001 for the nation to
know the real beneficiaries of the ad hoc policy making and
implementation,” Tata wrote in a letter, responding to a
lawmaker.  Tata Group ’s external public relations agency released
a copy of the letter today by e-mail.  India’s federal investigators are probing a multi-billion
dollar sale of second-generation wireless permits in 2008, which
the nation’s chief auditor said deprived the state exchequer 1.4
trillion rupees ($31 billion) as the prices were below-market
rates. The probe has led to the resignation of the
telecommunications minister and stalled parliamentary
proceedings.  In January 2001, the government sought to allow operators
with code division multiple access technology to use the
airwaves for offering limited mobile phone services, deviating
from the then existing policy, Tata wrote.  Tata, 72, issued the letter after lawmaker  Rajeev Chandrasekhar  on Dec. 6  wrote  on his website that Tata
Teleservices Ltd. benefited from “out-of-turn” spectrum
allocation. Chandrasekhar responded in an e-mail today that
Tata’s letter was “exceptionally weak” on facts.  The Comptroller and Auditor General of India said last
month that the telecommunications ministry awarded so-called
second-generation licenses to 13 ineligible companies two years
ago. The ministry sold 157 licenses at such “unbelievably low”
prices that the government may have lost 1.4 trillion rupees in
potential revenue, according to the auditor.  Telenor ASA  and Emirates Telecom Corp. were among operators
that purchased stakes in Indian companies whose license
applications should have been rejected in 2008 because they were
unqualified, according to the auditor’s report.  Tata also filed a petition in the country’s top court on
Nov. 29 seeking to amend a century-old law to stop phone
conversations between him and the founder of the Group’s public
relations company from being circulated. Tata Group owns India’s
 largest automaker  and steel company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anoop Agrawal  in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net 
 Ketaki Gokhale  in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  