-- Aussie, N.Z. Dollars Show Weekly Drops Before China Issues Inflation Data
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2010-12-10T16:07:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/aussie-kiwi-dollars-set-for-weekly-decline-before-china-s-inflation-data.html
The Australian and New Zealand
dollars posted weekly declines on concern Chinese  inflation  data
tomorrow will back the case for China to tighten monetary
policy, damping demand for higher-yielding currencies.  New Zealand’s dollar was this week’s worst performer
against the greenback among its 16 most-traded peers as
prospects for slower interest-rate increases narrowed the
nation’s  yield advantage  over U.S. rates. The U.S. currency
advanced this week against most major counterparts after
benchmark 10-year Treasury  yields  reached the highest since
June.  “The danger is China raises interest rates steeply,
causing a hard landing for the Chinese economy, which would
obviously hurt Australia’s exports,” said  Derek Mumford , a
Sydney-based director at Rochford Capital, a foreign-exchange
and rates risk management firm. “That’s holding the Aussie
dollar back along with a degree of uncertainty in U.S. equity
markets with concern around long-term interest rates.”  Australia’s currency traded at 98.50 U.S. cents at 11:04
a.m. in New York from 98.37 cents yesterday and 99.31 cents on
Dec. 3. It bought 82.62 yen compared with 82.39 yesterday. New
Zealand’s dollar fetched 74.88 U.S. cents from 74.87 cents
yesterday and fell 2.2 percent since Dec. 3.  China’s consumer prices rose 4.7 percent in November from a
year earlier, a statistics bureau report will show tomorrow
according to the median economist forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey. That would be the fastest pace since August 2008.  The “window” for China’s central bank to raise borrowing
costs could be this weekend, around the time set for the release
of November’s inflation data, according a report in the China
Securities Journal this week. China is Australia’s largest
trading partner and New Zealand’s second-biggest export market.  China Reserves  The People’s Bank of China increased reserve requirements
by 50 basis points starting Dec. 20, the central bank said on
its website today. It’s the third increase in five weeks.  New Zealand’s export volumes fell 2.9 percent in the third
quarter as shipments of meat slumped 19 percent to an eight-year
low, a government  report  showed today. Milk powder, butter and
cheese shipments dropped 5 percent and forestry products volumes
declined 6.6 percent.  Reserve Bank Governor  Alan Bollard  said yesterday that the
pace of growth has “moderated” and signaled “a more limited”
increase in rates over the next two years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Candice Zachariahs  in Mumbai at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 