-- Australia Payrolls Rise 54,600, More Than Twice Estimates; Currency Jumps
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2010-12-09T03:16:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/australia-payrolls-rise-54-600-more-than-double-estimates-on-mining-boom.html
Employment in Australia jumped by the
most in 10 months in November, driving up the nation’s currency
and stocks as investors bet the economy will accelerate after
slowing last quarter.  Payrolls gained 54,600 from October, the statistics bureau
said in Sydney today, more than double the  median forecast  for a
20,000 increase in a Bloomberg survey of 26 economists. The
 jobless   rate  fell to 5.2 percent from 5.4 percent, even as more
people entered the workforce.  A stronger labor market may help bolster consumer spending
after the economy expanded at the weakest pace in almost two
years in the third quarter. Reserve Bank of Australia Governor
 Glenn Stevens  this week held the benchmark interest rate at 4.75
percent, citing little sign of inflation pressure, an outlook
that may shift in 2011 should the pick-up in hiring persist.  “There is zero chance the RBA will hold steady until June
next year,” said  Adam Carr , a senior economist at ICAP
Australia Ltd. in Sydney. “You simply don’t get record
quarterly employment growth and a 5.2 percent unemployment rate
when the economy is fragile or slowing.”  Investors are betting there is a 58 percent chance the
central bank will raise rates by a quarter percentage point in
May, according to Bloomberg calculations based on interbank
futures on the Sydney Futures Exchange.  Rising Dollar  The Australian dollar rose to 98.66 U.S. cents at 1:55 p.m.
in Sydney, from 97.93 cents just before the release. Last month,
the currency reached parity with its U.S. counterpart. The
S&P/ ASX 200 Index  of shares advanced as much as 1 percent to
4,747.10, the highest level in about a month.  Today’s report showed the number of full-time jobs advanced
55,100 in November and part-time employment was little changed,
slipping by 400. Australia’s participation rate, which measures
the labor force as a percentage of the population over 15 years
old, increased to 66.1 percent in November from 65.9 percent a
month earlier, it showed.  The data are “consistent with a very tight labor market”
and there is a risk unemployment will fall quickly through 5
percent, a level that in the past has seen accelerating wage
pressure, said  Stephen Roberts , a senior economist at Nomura
Australia Ltd.  “The RBA will return to hiking the cash rate earlier than
the market is currently allowing,” Roberts said, predicting a
quarter point increase to 5 percent in March. The RBA’s next
meeting on borrowing costs is scheduled for Feb. 1.  Resources Boom  Employment is escalating as energy and resources companies
increase investment and hiring to meet demand from China.  Today’s report showed unemployment fell to 4.5 percent in
Western Australia, site of Chevron Corp.’s A$43 billion ($42
billion) Gorgon liquefied natural gas project, and 5.5 percent
in Queensland, where BG Group Plc will begin building a $15
billion LNG venture, generating 5,000 construction jobs.  BG, Chevron, Royal Dutch Shell Plc and ConocoPhillips are
among energy companies investing about A$200 billion in proposed
LNG projects in Australia.  The hiring surge threatens to boost inflation, which the
central bank aims to keep in a range of 2 percent to 3 percent.
The consumer price index in the third quarter rose 2.8 percent
from a year earlier, a government report showed Oct. 27.  Labor Demand  In a statement earlier this week, Stevens said that “after
the significant decline last year, growth in wages has picked up
somewhat, as had been expected. Some further increase is likely
over the coming year.”  The central bank has raised its overnight cash rate target
seven times since October 2009, in contrast with the U.S.
Federal Reserve’s policy of a benchmark rate near zero since
December 2008. That divergence has contributed to a 10 percent
increase in the local dollar versus the U.S. currency this year.  Assistant RBA Governor  Philip Lowe , in a speech yesterday
in Sydney, said policy makers’ most recent rate increase, on Nov.
2, was an “early and modest adjustment” aimed at avoiding
“more substantial increase in interest rates later on.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  