-- Australia Headed For Annual Job-Growth Record, Intensifying Wage Pressures
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2010-12-09T13:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/australia-headed-for-jobs-record-intensifying-wage-pressures.html
Employment in Australia is headed
for the biggest annual increase on  record , boosting prospects of
an acceleration in wage gains that forces the central bank to
resume raising interest rates.  Payrolls  soared by 366,000 in the first 11 months of this
year to 11.4 million, the most since records began in 1978 and
27,000 more than the previous high in 2006. The jobs data
released yesterday contrasted with a report last week showing
growth in the third quarter was the slowest since the end of
2008.  “Labor statistics are probably the best guide to current
conditions in the economy,” said  Paul Bloxham , chief economist
at HSBC Holdings Plc in Sydney and a former central bank
official. “One only needs to look back to the last time
inflation got above the target band to find that the best real-
time indicator of what was going on was the labor market.”  The Reserve Bank of Australia could enter 2011 with an
economy nearing full employment, which may help tip what policy
makers have called a “finely balanced” debate in favor of
those urging tighter policy. Governor  Glenn Stevens  has espoused
preemptive moves, including a Nov. 2. rate boost, saying central
bankers rarely regret lifting borrowing costs too soon.  “We expect that the  unemployment rate  will fall further in
the next few months,” Bloxham said. “As a result, rates will
need to rise further, and we expect multiple hikes next year.”  Rate Expectations  Investors  are betting there is a 58 percent chance the
central bank will raise rates by a quarter percentage point in
May, according to Bloomberg calculations based on interbank
futures on the Sydney Futures Exchange. That’s the first month
next year in which rate-increase expectations are greater than
50-50.  In a Dec. 7 statement, Stevens said that “after the
significant decline last year, growth in wages has picked up
somewhat, as had been expected. Some further increase is likely
over the coming year.”  Payrolls gained 54,600 in November from a month earlier,
the statistics bureau said in Sydney yesterday, more than double
the  median forecast  for a 20,000 increase in a Bloomberg survey
of 26 economists. The  jobless   rate  fell to 5.2 percent from 5.4
percent.  The Australian dollar rose to as high as 98.84 U.S. cents
in Sydney late yesterday, from 97.93 cents just before the
report. Last month, the currency reached parity with its U.S.
counterpart. The S&P/ ASX 200 Index  of shares advanced 0.9
percent to 4,741.3, the highest closing level in about a month.  Full-Time Jobs  The employment report showed the number of full-time jobs
advanced 55,100 in November and part-time employment was little
changed, slipping by 400. Australia’s participation rate, which
measures the labor force as a percentage of the population over
15 years old, increased to a record  66.1 percent  in November
from 65.9 percent a month earlier, it showed.  The data are “consistent with a very tight labor market”
and there is a risk unemployment will fall quickly through 5
percent, a level that in the past has been accompanied by
accelerating wage pressure, said  Stephen Roberts , a senior
economist at Nomura Australia Ltd.  “The RBA will return to hiking the cash rate earlier than
the market is currently allowing,” Roberts said, predicting a
quarter-point increase to 5 percent in March. The RBA’s next
meeting on borrowing costs is scheduled for Feb. 1.  Employment is escalating as energy and resources companies
increase investment and hiring to meet demand from China.  Resources Boom  Yesterday’s report showed unemployment fell to 4.5 percent
in Western Australia, site of Chevron Corp.’s A$43 billion ($42
billion) Gorgon liquefied natural gas project, and 5.5 percent
in Queensland, where BG Group Plc will begin building a $15
billion LNG venture, generating 5,000 construction jobs.  BG, Chevron, Royal Dutch Shell Plc and ConocoPhillips are
among energy companies investing about A$200 billion in proposed
LNG projects in Australia.  The hiring surge threatens to boost inflation, which the
central bank aims to keep in a range of 2 percent to 3 percent.
The consumer price index in the third quarter rose 2.8 percent
from a year earlier, a government report showed Oct. 27.  The central bank has raised its overnight cash rate target
seven times since October 2009, in contrast with the U.S.
Federal Reserve’s policy of a benchmark rate near zero since
December 2008. That divergence has contributed to a 10 percent
increase in the local dollar versus the U.S. currency this year.  Assistant RBA Governor  Philip Lowe , in a speech two days
ago in Sydney, said policy makers’ most recent rate increase was
an “early and modest adjustment” aimed at averting
“uncomfortably high” inflation and avoiding a “more
substantial increase in interest rates later on.”  Australian wages rose 3.5 percent in the third quarter from
a year earlier, the most in a year, as salaries in private
industry outpaced government pay gains for the first time since
the start of the global financial crisis.  Nomura’s Roberts said the RBA would be “rather
uncomfortable” with wage inflation rising to 4.5 percent, a
level that might be reached next year on the current trajectory.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  