-- BAE to Cut 1,300 Jobs in U.K. as Government Drops Harrier, Nimrod Projects
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2010-12-09T12:38:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/bae-systems-plans-to-cut-1-252-jobs-at-seven-u-k-sites-unite-union-says.html
BAE Systems Plc , Europe’s biggest
arms maker, will cut 1,300 jobs at seven sites across the U.K.
after the government terminated the Harrier and Nimrod aircraft
programs as it slashes defense spending.  The posts will be scrapped at six plants and two Royal Air
Force bases, London-based BAE said today in a  statement . Closure
of the Nimrod assembly site with the loss of a further 630 jobs,
which had already been announced, may be accelerated, it said.  U.K. defense spending will be reduced by 8 percent over
four years, Prime Minister  David Cameron  said Oct. 19, with the
RAF’s BAE-built Harrier jump jets decommissioned and an order
for nine of the company’s  Nimrod  reconnaissance planes halted as
the government seeks to narrow a  record budget deficit .  “These are very highly skilled jobs that are being lost,”
 Bernie Hamilton , the Unite union’s national officer for
aerospace and shipbuilding, said in a telephone interview. “It’s
the beginning of the end of military plane-making in Britain.”  Jobs will go at the Chadderton, Prestwick and Yeovil plants
and at RAF Kinloss, all associated with the Nimrod program, and
at Farnborough and RAF Cottesmore, which are tied to the Harrier
fleet. Cuts at Samlesbury and Warton are related to both planes,
with the latter factory worst hit with 668 posts lost, BAE said.  The Woodford plant, which BAE said in September last year
would close at the end of 2012 because of a dearth of Nimrod
orders, will shut early after the termination of existing work.  Eurofighter Concern  BAE said it is consulting on the job losses and will work
with  employees  and unions to find ways of mitigating the cuts.  “Today’s announcement is designed to ensure we remain
competitive as we actively pursue a number of opportunities for
our other products,” Kevin Taylor, managing director of BAE’s
Military Air Solutions division, said in the statement, adding
that the unit remains “sustainable with a strong business plan.”  Unite said the decline in U.K. warplane manufacturing will
gather pace if the country fails to commit to a third tranche of
orders and upgraded radar for the Eurofighter Typhoon, which BAE
builds with partners in Germany, Spain and Italy.  “They’re relying on the Typhoon being exportable but that
can only happen if Britain buys tranche three,” Hamilton said.
“Japan and other countries will only purchase the plane if the
U.K. government does so and says, ‘this is a viable product’.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Rothman  in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  