-- Banco de Oro Picks DMCI, Philippine Infrastructure Stocks on Spending Boom
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2010-12-09T03:54:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/banco-de-oro-picks-dmci-philippine-infrastructure-stocks-on-spending-boom.html
Banco de Oro Unibank Inc. , which runs
two of the five best-performing Philippine funds, is buying
infrastructure stocks on optimism record-low borrowing costs
will spur spending in the industry.  Banco de Oro is buying  DMCI Holdings Inc. , the nation’s
biggest construction company, and  Metro Pacific Investments
Corp. , owner of the longest tollroad,  Marvin Fausto , the bank’s
chief investment officer, said today. The Manila-based company
is also buying  Alliance Global Group Inc.  and  Ayala Land Inc.  on
expectations consumer and property stocks will beat the
benchmark index in the next 12 months, Fausto said.  The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index  has retreated 4.3
percent from the record high of 4,397.3 on Nov. 4, after almost
tripling since October 2008 amid a recovery from the global
financial crisis. The  rally  will resume and drive the gauge to
4,800 in 12 months as benign inflation keeps interest rates at a
record-low for at least a year, Fausto said. The exchange’s
 Property Index  has 46 percent this year, outpacing a 38 climb
for the benchmark index.  “Equities have become more attractive,” Fausto, who helps
manage $13 billion at Banco de Oro, said in an interview. “The
low-borrowing-cost environment favors infrastructure, consumer
and property companies. We have been adding to these sectors.”  Five Years  Fausto’s  BDO Institutional Equity Fund  has returned 152
percent over the past five years, while his  BDO Equity Fund  has
returned 131 percent. The gains rank the funds fourth and fifth
among 22 focused on and domiciled in the Philippines, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Shares of  DMCI , which has investments in energy, may gain
as much as 15 percent in the next 12 months and  Metro Pacific ,
which controls a water utility, may gain 40 percent, based on
analysts estimates compiled by Bloomberg data.  Alliance Global ,
owner of the largest casino and the local franchise of
McDonald’s, may rise 15 percent, while  Ayala Land , the nation’s
biggest builder, may advance 51 percent.  The index’s 15.3  price-earnings ratio  makes the market less
expensive than neighboring Indonesia’s 18.5 multiple and
Malaysia’s 16. The Philippine multiple may drop as earnings
forecasts are likely to be upgraded, Fausto said. Among other
Asian emerging markets, Thailand is cheaper at 14.4 times
estimated earnings, and Vietnam is at 9.2.  North, South  Still, the Philippines is among the three most expensive
markets in Asia excluding Japan based on a price-to-book ratio
of 2.7, Citigroup Inc. analysts including  Markus Rosgen  wrote in
a report Dec. 3. North Asia is attractively valued and will
outpace Southeast Asia’s gains in 2011, the analysts said.  Economic growth in the Philippines will exceed the 5
percent to 6 percent target for 2010 even after moderating in
the second half, Economic Planning Secretary  Cayetano Paderanga 
said Nov. 25. The economy grew 6.5 percent in the third quarter,
following an 8.2 percent expansion in the three months to June,
as the central bank kept its benchmark overnight rate at 4
percent for more than a year.  Inflation remains “manageable” within the targeted range
of 4 percent to 5 percent, Fausto said. “There’s no risk in
terms of cost pressure,” he said. Low interest rates will spur
consumer spending, demand for homes and attract investment to
infrastructure projects promoted by the government to stimulate
economic growth, he said.  Lobbying Companies  The government is lobbying private companies and funds to
finance more than 700 billion pesos ($16 billion) of
infrastructure projects including roads to bridges, the National
Economic Development Authority said in September. The
investments will help boost growth to as much as 8 percent a
year from 2011, Finance Secretary  Cesar Purisima  said in July.  “Once these infrastructure investments start coming in
you’d expect upgrades in earnings and big names to bid for key
projects,” Fausto said. “Consumer spending and property demand
will also gain as these investments create jobs and drive
economic expansion.”  The Philippine index has rebounded 6.8 percent this month
from a 7.4 percent tumble in  November , the worst month since
October 2008, when concern that Europe’s debt crisis will spread
and China will raise interest rates prompted withdrawals from
emerging markets.  Philippine equities have gained since the yield on the
benchmark  91-day treasury bill  fell to a record on Nov. 30,
driving funds to higher-yielding equities, Fausto said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian Sayson  in Manila at   isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  