-- Bank of Canada Says Europe Crisis Boosting Canadian Financial System Risk
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2010-12-09T15:29:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/bank-of-canada-says-europe-crisis-boosting-canadian-financial-system-risk.html
The risks to Canada’s financial system
are high and have increased in the last six months because of
Europe’s debt crisis, global trade imbalances and rising debts of
local households, the country’s central bank said.  Reduced investor confidence linked to indebted European
governments could hurt Canada by making credit less available and
more expensive, the Bank of Canada said in its twice-yearly
Financial System Review. Large current account deficits and
surpluses could slow the global recovery, and Canadians are more
vulnerable because of high debts, the report said.  “Acute fiscal strains in peripheral Europe and weaknesses
in the European financial system could reinforce each other and
have adverse effects on other countries, including Canada,” the
report from Ottawa said today. “Even though Canada’s financial
system is currently on a sound footing, risks are elevated and
have increased over the past six months.”  The central bank kept its benchmark  interest rate  at 1
percent two days ago for a second consecutive time, and said it
will remain careful about future increases as falling exports and
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis hinder the economic recovery.
European finance ministers this week ruled out immediate aid for
Portugal and Spain or an increase in the 750 billion-euro ($1
trillion) crisis fund, counting on European Central Bank bond
purchases to calm markets a week after handing Ireland an 85
billion-euro lifeline.  The bank said the vulnerability of Canadian households has
“deepened” in the past six months with debts rising faster than
income. “Authorities are co-operating closely and will continue
to monitor the financial situation of the household sector.”  The U.S., Japanese and European central banks are still
relying on asset purchases to revive demand and are keeping their
interest rates close to record lows, and today’s report said
there is also a “moderate” risk that low global borrowing costs
could fuel a new round of excessive risk-taking by investors.  Canada’s financial system “remains relatively strong,” the
report said. The ability of local banks to raise money and their
reserves of capital are no longer significant risks, the report
said. None of Canada’s banks needed a rescue during the crisis
and the institutions are rated the soundest in the world by the
Geneva-based World Economic Forum.  Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney in July became the Bank
for International Settlements’ Chairman of the Committee on the
Global Financial System. The committee monitors risks in global
financial markets for central bank leaders and manages the
collection of BIS statistics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  