-- Bank of Korea Holds Benchmark Rate After Won Gains Damped Economic Growth
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   W i l l i a m   S i m
-- 2010-12-09T03:54:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/bank-of-korea-holds-benchmark-rate-after-won-gains-damped-economic-growth.html
The  Bank of Korea  left borrowing costs
unchanged after an appreciation in the nation’s currency
moderated economic growth.  Governor  Kim Choong Soo  and the policy board left the
 seven-day repurchase rate  at 2.5 percent, the central bank said
in a statement in Seoul today. All 10 economists in a Bloomberg
News  survey  predicted the decision following quarter percentage-
point increases in July and November from a record-low 2 percent.  The benchmark rate remains below November’s 3.3 percent
pace of inflation after today’s unanimous vote. Expectations for
price gains are also climbing, according to the nation’s bond
market, signaling the bank may have to resume rate increases.  “I see no change in the BOK’s stance to keep raising
borrowing costs, which are still very low,” said  Park Sang Hyun ,
an economist at HI Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul.
Inflation remains a concern, though the central bank will wait
until February or March next year before considering another
increase as the economy is slowing, Park said.  The won rose 0.8 percent to 1,137.40 per dollar as of 12:28
p.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
currency has appreciated about 35 percent since March last year,
the most in Asia. The benchmark  Kospi  stock index gained 0.8
percent to 1,971.27. The yield on the 3 percent note due
December 2013 rose 9 basis points to 3.17 percent, according to
Korea Stock Exchange.  Inflation Expectations  The policy board left the benchmark rate unchanged even as
inflation expectations in South Korea are climbing the most
since the end of the global crisis, according to its bond market.  The increase in the nation’s  breakeven rate , or the gap in
yields between inflation-linked and standard notes, since the
start of October exceeds that of any quarter since April to June
2009, when the world crisis waned with banks’ recapitalizations.  Consumer price growth may accelerate to around 3.5 percent
early in 2011 and the central bank will continue to normalize
rates, Kim said after the decision.  Raw material costs and domestic demand are contributing to
price pressures, the Bank of Korea said in a statement. While
Europe’s fiscal woes and geopolitical tension are risks, exports,
consumption and investment are helping growth, it said.  Consumer prices  rose 4.1 percent in October, the fastest
pace since February 2009. The central bank aims for inflation of
2 percent to 4 percent on average through 2012.  The bank dropped a pledge to keep monetary policy
“accommodative” after the Nov. 16 rate increase. It said today
it will aim to ensure price stability while sustaining growth.  Slowing Expansion  Recent reports showed  industrial production  shrank 4.2
percent in October from September, the third straight monthly
decline, while  economic expansion  halved to 0.7 percent last
quarter as the won appreciated the most in Asia and goods
shipments cooled.  Extended tension with North Korea may also affect the
economy, the finance ministry said last month after the North’s
deadly shelling of a border island on Nov. 23.  “The economy is losing momentum, giving the central bank
less scope for higher borrowing costs,” said  Oh Suk Tae , an
economist at SC First Bank Korea Ltd. in Seoul.  President  Lee Myung Bak ’s government has backed proposals
to levy taxes on foreign investors in treasury and central bank
bonds to slow fund inflows driving up the won and imperiling
export competitiveness.  Fed Easing  Emerging market officials have complained that liquidity
injections by the U.S. Federal Reserve may depress the dollar
and propel more capital to their markets. The Fed said Nov. 3 it
will buy $75 billion in U.S. Treasuries per month through June
to spur the world’s biggest economy.  Overseas shipments account for about 40 percent of gross
domestic product and have boosted earnings at companies
including Samsung Electronics Co., Asia’s biggest maker of
semiconductors, flat screens and mobile phones.  Annual inflation will be about 2.9 percent in 2010 and the
economy will expand 6 percent this year, Kim said today.  Growth  
will slow to about 4.5 percent next year, he said Nov. 11.  Producer prices increased 4.9 percent in November from a
year earlier, at a pace near October’s 22-month high of 5
percent, a statement from the central bank showed today.  “The BOK needs to raise rates further to curb rising price
pressures,” said  Kwon Young Sun , an economist at Nomura
Holdings Inc. in Hong Kong. “The neutral rate that supports
growth without stoking inflation would be at least 4 percent.”  Standard & Poor’s affirmed its A long-term foreign-currency
debt rating for South Korea, citing the “nation’s dynamic
economy, sound fiscal position, and a modest net external
creditor position,” in a statement issued today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
 William Sim  in Seoul at 
 wsim2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  