-- Banks Need More Than $1 Trillion in CoCo Debt to Meet Basel III, S&P Says
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2010-12-09T15:29:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/banks-need-more-than-1-trillion-in-coco-debt-to-meet-basel-iii-s-p-says.html
Banks may struggle to raise at least
$1 trillion in contingent convertible bonds needed to replace
existing capital securities, Standard & Poor’s said.  Lenders’ ability to issue so-called CoCos at a price that
makes sense is “still uncertain,” which may increase the
capital constraints banks face in the next five to 10 years,
according to the report. Supply will be boosted if national
regulators force banks to issue a minimum amount of the notes to
enhance financial stability, S&P said.  Regulators meeting in Basel want banks to hold capital in
the form of equity or securities designed to absorb losses in a
crisis, so that taxpayers won’t have to finance bailouts. While
some investors have said they won’t hold CoCos, others, such as
Pacific Investment Management Co., which runs the world’s
biggest bond fund, have indicated they are potential buyers.  “In our view, CoCos are conceptually appealing to
regulators, mainly due to their intended clarity and generally
expected unambiguous behavior in a time of stress,” S&P
analysts  Michelle Brennan  in London and Paris-based  Bernard de Longevialle  wrote. The greater loss-absorbency of the new notes
may “further reduce traditional investors’ appetites for this
new generation of instruments.”  Investors with a low-to-moderate appetite for risk may be
unwilling or unable to hold high-risk bonds such as CoCos, and
some have mandates forcing them to sell a security if it
converts, S&P said.  Ratios, Discretion  Conversion triggers may depend on financial ratios or
regulators’ discretion.  A defined trigger based on  financial ratios  is likely to be
favored by holders, “unless they feel that a bank is so strong
that the risk of being declared non-viable is extremely
remote,” S&P said. Investors probably wouldn’t buy
discretionary CoCos “unless they perceive the yield as
commensurately high,” the ratings firm said.  UBS AG , Switzerland’s biggest bank, and Credit Suisse Group
AG may have to hold capital equal to at least 19 percent of
risk-weighted assets, with as much as 9 percent made up of
CoCos, Swiss regulators have said, applying changes, or a so-
called Swiss finish, to Basel Committee rules.  Triggers  Only two major banks have issued CoCos.  Lloyds Banking
Group Plc  in London exchanged some subordinated bonds for new
enhanced capital notes that become equity if the lender’s core
Tier 1 ratio falls below 5 percent of its assets.  Rabobank Groep
NV , which has the highest ratings and equity of 12.5 percent of
assets, sold senior notes that will be written down to a quarter
of face value if its capital ratio slips below 7 percent.  Two classes of CoCo are likely to emerge, S&P said. One will
be where the trigger is set high enough to replenish a bank’s
capital while it’s still a going concern. The other will have
triggers that won’t activate until the bank is on the point of
being declared non-viable, making the notes a form of bail-in
capital, S&P said.  The low trigger forms may be easier to issue, because
investors will be able to focus on the risk of default, S&P
said.  “Pricing will need to be attractive to encourage investors
to invest in slices of bank capital that they perceive to
present the greatest risk,” S&P said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Glover  in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  