-- Banks May Face Political Contribution Ban in Municipal Derivatives Market
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y   a n d   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2010-12-09T19:14:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/banks-face-pay-to-play-ban-in-municipal-derivatives-business.html
Banks that arrange derivative trades
with U.S. states, municipalities and public pensions may be
barred from giving to the campaigns of politicians who hold the
power to award them work.  The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading Commission  voted 5-0
today to seek public comment on a proposed ban, one of the first
regulations aimed at the municipal-derivatives business arising
out of the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul law. The rule also
would bar banks from trading with officials unable to gauge the
risks involved, and from peddling deals that aren’t in a
client’s best interest.  “The proposed rule is intended to ensure that swaps
customers get fair treatment in the execution of their
transactions,”  Gary Gensler , the commission chairman, said
today at the start of a hearing on creating the rules.  Derivatives known as swaps, in which two parties agree to
exchange payments based on underlying assets or indexes, that
were sold to states and municipalities as a way of saving
taxpayers money backfired after the financial crisis, leaving
the buyers with soaring interest bills. The trades have since
cost public agencies and nonprofits more than $4 billion in fees
to back out of them, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Justice Department is also investigating price-fixing
in the municipal finance market as a result of collusion among
banks and advisers hired by local governments to broker
investment deals. The advisers at the center of that
investigation also guided officials as they entered into swap
deals. Those agreements may have provided undisclosed fees for
the banks that topped those earned from underwriting bonds.  $300 Billion Business  The derivative businesses was once a booming niche of the
$2.8 trillion municipal bond market, with contracts covering as
much as $300 billion sold each year before the 2008 financial
crisis, according to the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board.
The contracts were exempt from regulations governing the rest of
the municipal-bond industry. The proposed new rules are intended
to address that gap.  A ban on political donations, aimed at a practice known as
“pay-to-play,” would bring the rules for the derivatives
business in line with those for the rest of the municipal-
finance industry. Underwriters have been barred from giving to
their public-official clients since 1994. Financial advisers to
local governments may also face restrictions as a result of the
regulatory overhaul.  Some Exemptions  The ban prohibits donors to municipal officials from
entering into a swap transaction with the entity they represent
for two years, according to a summary from the commission. There
will be some proposed exemptions, including for smaller
contributions, the commission said. Today’s vote signals the
start of a public comment period, allowing interested parties to
weigh in before the rules are made final.  The rule is also aimed at preventing banks from entering
into swap transactions with states, municipalities, government
pensions and endowment funds unless the organizations have a
representative able to assess the risks involved. That adviser
would also be required to evaluate whether the deals are being
sold at a fair price and to act in its client’s best interest.  In cases where banks recommend that municipalities enter
into swap trades, the commission said the proposed rule would
require the financial companies to make “reasonable efforts”
to ensure that the trades are in the customers’ best interests.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 William Selway  in Washington at 
 Wselway@bloomberg.net ;
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  