-- Bernanke Pledges Cooperation on Increasing Transparency, Issa Aide Says
-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 2010-12-09T21:06:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/bernanke-pledges-cooperation-on-increasing-transparency-aide-to-issa-says.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  today pledged to “work cooperatively” with the new
head of a House panel who’s seeking to increase disclosure of
the central bank’s actions, the lawmaker’s spokesman said.  Representative  Darrell Issa  made it “very clear” in a
private meeting with Bernanke that the lawmaker will pursue “an
overall agenda intent on making government as transparent as
possible,” said  Kurt Bardella , spokesman for the California
Republican who’s set to chair the House Oversight Committee in
January. “Chairman Bernanke certainly signaled that he would be
a willing partner in that effort.”  Bernanke didn’t promise any specific changes in the
meeting, held at his request on Capitol Hill, Bardella said.
Issa’s efforts will be part of intensified scrutiny of the Fed
in Congress, where Texas Representative  Ron Paul , a Republican
who advocates abolishing the central bank, will take over a
Financial Services subcommittee overseeing the Fed.  “We certainly believe that Chairman Bernanke was genuine
in his outreach and genuine in his desire to work with us to
advance our transparency agenda,” Bardella said in a phone
interview. “We take him at his word that he was sincere in
saying that he wanted to be collaborative, that he wanted
essentially a partnership with us.”  Michelle Smith , a Fed spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Before the meeting, Issa said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television that he is concerned the central bank under
Bernanke is becoming “much more” of an “activist Fed, one
that is taking on obligations without appropriations.”  Lag Time  Issa said last week he will consider whether the five-year
lag time for the release of transcripts of Fed meetings should
be shortened, and he reiterated his concern about the delay in
the interview today. His proposal comes amid rising criticism of
the central bank by Republicans, who won control of the House in
November elections.  John Boehner , the presumptive House speaker, and three
other Republican leaders have criticized the Fed’s plan,
announced a day after the election, to buy $600 billion of
assets to boost the economy, saying it risked weakening the
dollar and fueling asset bubbles.  Today, Bernanke “reiterated his pledge and commitment to
be transparent and to certainly make available to Chairman Issa
and our committee answers to questions that we have or will have
in the future about the Fed’s activities,” Bardella said.  Issa, now the senior Republican on the oversight panel,
also met privately Dec. 2 with Kansas City Fed President  Thomas Hoenig , who was in Washington for a separate meeting with House
Republicans.  More Transparency  The prospect of increased transparency follows last week’s
release by the Fed, under orders from Congress, of documents
naming recipients of $3.3 trillion of central bank aid during
the financial crisis, along with details including the amounts
of loans, interest rates and dates.  Fed officials are considering steps of their own to
increase transparency, possibly including regular press
conferences by Bernanke. He is the only head of a major central
bank who doesn’t give media briefings to explain actions and
projections.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  