-- Blackstone Said to Seize 14 Columbia Sussex Hotels It Sold Five Years Ago
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2010-12-10T14:24:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/blackstone-said-to-seize-14-columbia-sussex-hotels-it-sold-five-years-ago.html
Blackstone Group LP  took ownership
of 14 hotels it sold to Columbia Sussex Corp. five years ago
after buying junior debt on the properties and seizing control,
a person with direct knowledge of the transaction said.  Thirteen of the hotels will be managed by Interstate Hotels
& Resorts Inc., according to a statement by Arlington, Virginia-
based Interstate. They include properties under the Westin,
Sheraton and Hilton brands.  Blackstone is betting that hotel real estate will recover
after the credit crisis depressed values. The New York-based
firm was part of a group that this year won a bankruptcy auction
for hotel chain Extended Stay Inc., which it sold in 2007 to
investors led by  David Lichtenstein ’s Lightstone Group LLC.  Blackstone had bought the junior debt on the Columbia
Sussex hotels with the intention of seizing the properties, said
the person with knowledge of the deal, who asked not to be named
because the details haven’t been made public. A $539 million
mortgage on the real estate that came due in October was turned
over to a firm specializing in troubled commercial property
loans because of imminent default, Fitch Ratings said in June.  The company took over the hotels via a “deed in lieu” of
foreclosure. In those transactions, a borrower agrees with his
mortgage lender that he no longer has an economic interest in a
property, and gives the deed to the creditor instead of going
through a foreclosure, said  Kevin O’Shea , head of the U.S. real
estate group at London-based law firm Allen & Overy LLP.  Peter Rose , a Blackstone spokesman, declined to comment.
Messages left yesterday for Ted Mitchel, Columbia Sussex’s chief
financial officer, weren’t returned after normal business hours.  Taking Control  Buying junior debt to acquire properties became more
prevalent once the credit crisis set in and owners who purchased
buildings close to the market peak found it impossible to
refinance as property values fell.  “Many real estate investors have been taking advantage of
the distressed market to acquire mortgage or mezzanine debt as a
means to acquire ownership of the underlying real estate,”
O’Shea said.  Investors used junior loans to gain control of underlying
real estate in multiple high-profile property takeovers last
year. In August 2009, Fortress Investment Group LLC won the
bidding for a $640 million Manhattan condominium conversion
project called Sheffield57, paying less than 40 cents on the
dollar to wrest control from New York developer Kent Swig after
he defaulted on the loans. The auction followed similar sales of
Boston’s John Hancock Tower and 1330 Avenue of the Americas in
New York.  Wyndham Deal  Blackstone, the world’s largest private equity firm, bought
the junior mezzanine portions of the Columbia Sussex debt from
Northstar Realty Finance Corp., Fortress,  Bank of America Corp. 
and hedge fund Fillmore Capital Partners LLC, people with
knowledge of the purchase said in October.  The hotels were previously part of the former Wyndham
International Inc. Blackstone, which paid $1.4 billion in equity
for Wyndham International in 2005, sold half of that company’s
hotel portfolio to Crestview Hills, Kentucky-based Columbia
Sussex that year for the same amount.  The 13 hotels that Interstate will be managing consist of
six Westins, two Hiltons, two Sheratons, two Marriotts and a
Wyndham, the company said. They have a total of 5,466 rooms.  The properties include the Westin San Diego, the Sheraton
Philadelphia City Center Hotel, the Marriott Atlanta Downtown
and the Wyndham Chicago Downtown, according to Interstate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hui-yong Yu  in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  