-- BOE Holds Bond-Purchase Plan on Signs Economy Will Withstand Spending Cuts
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2010-12-09T13:14:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/boe-holds-bond-purchase-plan-on-signs-economy-will-withstand-spending-cuts.html
The Bank of England kept its
emergency stimulus program unchanged after recent data suggested
the economy may be strong enough to weather the government’s
impending spending cuts, undermining the case for more aid.  The nine-member Monetary Policy Committee, led by Governor
 Mervyn King , held its  bond-purchase plan  at 200 billion pounds
($315 billion), as forecast by all 34 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey. The bank also kept its main interest rate at a
record low of 0.5 percent.  Manufacturing  and services data indicate the recovery
sustained momentum in the fourth quarter. While spending cuts to
tackle the record  budget deficit  may curb expansion, inflation
remains above the bank’s target and policy makers have split
three ways on whether to raise rates to tame price growth or add
to stimulus.  “The news that we’ve had through the month has been fairly
positive, particularly in the manufacturing sector,”  Philip Rush , an economist at Nomura International Plc in London, said
in a telephone interview. “It seems too much of a communication
challenge to do any kind of easing now, taking that off the
cards completely in our view.”  The pound was little changed against the dollar after the
decision and was down 0.1 percent at $1.5750 as of 1:12 p.m. in
London. The yield on the 10-year gilt was 4 basis points lower
at 3.504 percent.  Positive Data  U.K.  manufacturing growth  unexpectedly accelerated to the
fastest pace in 16 years in November as export orders climbed,
and an index of services stayed close to a four-month high,
surveys last week showed.  Gross domestic product  increased 0.6
percent in the three months through November, more than the 0.5
percent recorded in the quarter through October, the National
Institute of Economic and Social Research, whose clients include
the Bank of England, said on Dec. 7.  “Quantitative easing will not be restarted unless there is
a very severe slowdown in activity,” said  Azad Zangana , an
economist at Schroders Investment Management in London and an
ex-Treasury official.  Other central banks have already added to measures to
protect their economies. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said this week he may expand bond purchases beyond the
$600 billion announced last month. The European Central Bank
postponed its withdrawal of emergency stimulus last week and
stepped up government-debt purchases.  Euro Crisis  At the Bank of England, policy maker  Adam Posen  has called
for an expansion of the bond program, saying the fiscal squeeze
will undermine domestic demand. The Office for Budget
Responsibility, the Treasury’s fiscal watchdog, forecasts that
the cuts will lead to the loss of 330,000 public-sector jobs by
2015. It cut its 2011 growth forecast to 2.1 percent from 2.3
percent on Nov. 29 and said the economy faces a “sluggish”
medium-term outlook.  Britain’s economic prospects may also be hampered by the
crisis engulfing the euro region, Britain’s biggest export
market. The European Union and the International Monetary Fund
on Nov. 28 agreed on an aid package for Ireland to try to stem
contagion to other countries.  King told lawmakers on Nov. 25 that “a healthy European
recovery is important to the ability of the U.K. economy to
rebalance.” The strength of imports may hamper a shift away
from domestic consumption the central bank is counting on. Data
today showed the  trade deficit  unexpectedly widened in October
as record imports overshadowed an increase in exports.  Inflation Risk  Europe’s debt crisis is “a risk you have to take into
account,”  Joost Beaumont , an economist at ABN Amro in
Amsterdam, said in a telephone interview. “If this continues it
will make the MPC less inclined to start raising  rates .
Currently the majority is very comfortable with the wait-and-see
stance and the recent data has confirmed them in their view.”  Even as growth is threatened, an inflation rate above the
government’s 3 percent upper limit may curb policy makers’
appetite for further loosening. King was forced to write his
fourth letter this year to the government after consumer prices
increased an annual 3.2 percent in October. He said last month
that inflation was “likely to remain elevated” throughout next
year.  Policy maker  Andrew Sentance  has argued for an interest-
rate increase since June, citing the risk inflation expectations
may become dislodged. His colleague  Spencer Dale  said in a
speech last week that the combination of high inflation and
loose policy made for an “uncomfortable juxtaposition.”  “With inflation so high I don’t think the Bank of England
will feel that it’s credible with their mandate to be loosening
policy any further,” Daiwa’s Mehta said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  