-- Bond Vigilantes Are Awoken by Obama Tax Compromise, Deficit, Yardeni Says
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r
-- 2010-12-09T15:21:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/bond-vigilantes-are-awoken-by-obama-tax-compromise-deficit-yardeni-says.html
President  Barack Obama  is inciting
the wrath of bond investors concerned that his agreement to
extend and expand tax cuts will keep the federal deficit at
record levels, according to economist  Edward Yardeni .  “You are kind of seeing the bond vigilantes waking up in
the United States,” Yardeni, president and chief investment
strategist at Yardeni Research Inc., said by telephone in a
Bloomberg Television ‘Inside Track’ interview from London. “It
does seem to be a coincidence between this recent significant
back-up in bond yields and concerns that Washington finds it all
too easy to increase the deficit by extending the tax cuts and
adding other tax goodies.”  Yields on 10-year Treasury  notes  posted the biggest-two day
rise in two years after Obama said late Dec. 6 that he’d accept
a deal that would extend current tax rates for high-income
taxpayers for two more years in exchange for extending federal
unemployment insurance for the long-term jobless and cutting the
payroll tax by $120 billion for one year.  Yardeni, who coined the term bond vigilantes in 1983 for
investors who protest inflationary monetary or fiscal policies
by selling bonds and driving up government borrowing costs,
estimated that yields on 10-year notes should rise by about 1
percentage point to 4 percent to 4.5 percent based on U.S.
growth.  “If I had to bet on who wins the contest between
governments and the bond vigilantes, the bond vigilantes would
always win because they are in a position to threaten to shut
the bond markets down and not finance anything unless
governments start to move away from reckless monetary and fiscal
policies,” said Yardeni, who is based in New York.  Prior Administrations  The vigilantes had their heyday in the late 1980s and the
early 1990s when they succeeded in forcing President  George H.W. Bush  and then  Bill Clinton  into adopting politically unpopular
tax increases and spending cuts to reduce the budget deficit.  The federal deficit totaled $1.3 trillion in the fiscal
year that ended Sept. 30, according to the Congressional Budget
Office. The White House budget office projected the federal
deficit this year will exceed $1.5 trillion, or 10.6 percent of
gross domestic product.  “We are moving in the wrong direction in the U.S.,”
Yardeni said. “At the end of the day, we’re probably going to
find that financial markets generally speaking will reward those
who are moving away from reckless monetary and fiscal
policies.”  Inflation Expectations  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s “message to the
bond vigilantes was that, ‘we’re not going to have deflation’
and he’ll do whatever it takes to avoid deflation,” Yardeni
said. “The fact that he said he could get inflation back to 2
percent, that doesn’t have a lot of credibility because if he’s
so good at keeping inflation pegged at exactly 2 percent then
why are we below that? There’s a fear he may overshoot and
that’s another reason to lighten up on the bond market.”  Consumer prices in the U.S., excluding food and fuel
increased 0.6 percent in October from a year earlier in the
smallest gain in year-over-year figures going back to 1958, the
Labor Department reported Nov. 17. The personal consumption
expenditures index, excluding food and energy, which is the
Fed’s preferred gauge for consumer prices, rose 0.9 percent in
October from a year earlier, a government report said Nov. 24.  The 10-year note  yield  fell five basis points to 3.23
percent at 10:04 a.m. in New York. The yield rose 35 basis
points over the past two days in the biggest two-day slump since
Sept. 19, 2008, when the markets were in upheaval following the
bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  