-- Booker Aide's $206,000 Pay Angers Newark City Council, Firefighter Union
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2010-12-09T21:40:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/booker-aide-s-206-000-pay-draws-criticism-after-167-police-officers-fired.html
Newark  Mayor  Cory Booker , who fired
167 police officers last week and raised property taxes 16
percent to close a budget gap, drew criticism from city
councilors and union heads for hiring an aide who will earn
$206,000.  David Giordano was sworn in Nov. 30 for a second term as
Newark’s fire director. He retired Dec. 1, according to the
state Treasury Department, and took a job as Booker’s aide,
according to Anne Torres, a city spokeswoman. The moves will
bring Giordano $206,000 a year in pay and pension, $25,000 more
than what he made in his first term as fire chief, according to
information from Torres and the Treasury Department.  “David Giordano is a very qualified person; he’s done
great things as fire director and he’ll probably do a good job
in the new position,” said Charles West, head of the union
representing the city’s 380 firefighters. “It’s not that this
is a bad hire, per se, but in the scheme of things they just
laid off 167 police officers and the mayor has yet to trim any
fat from his side of the table.”  Council Vice President  Anibal Ramos  said he was “shocked”
to hear details of Giordano’s position, which was reported
earlier by the Star-Ledger of Newark. Councilors were unaware of
his planned retirement or move to Booker’s payroll when they
approved his reappointment as director, Ramos said.  “This is a time to be very conservative in our hiring
practices,” said Ramos, who expects the council to debate the
issue within the next week. “It’s not the time to be adding
staff to the mayor’s office.”  25 Years  Christie, 48, said he learned of the story through media
accounts today and said he’d speak to Booker about it. Christie
has criticized what he deems excessive pay and pension packages,
which he says drive up government spending and taxes.  “I have concerns about the process and the transparency of
what happened,” said  Donald Payne , the City Council president,
who said he was unaware of Giordano’s plans when he voted in
favor of the second term. “I was a little taken aback by the
latest developments.”  Torres said Booker will release a statement on the issue
today. She said Giordano wasn’t available for comment. Giordano
is a political supporter of the mayor, the Ledger reported.  Giordano joined the  fire department  in 1985. Under state
pension guidelines, employees who work at least 20 years but
less than 25 receive 50 percent of their final compensation as
 pension . For Giordano, that would be about $90,000 a year.  Richer Retirement  Because he retired from the Police and Firemen’s Retirement
System with 25 years and 1 month of service, he is entitled to
65 percent of his $181,000 final salary, or about $118,000,
according to information from the state Treasury. Giordano also
will earn $88,000 as adviser to the mayor, according to Torres.  Booker, who was elected to a second term in May, in June
proposed firing 167 police officers and 96 firefighters to help
balance his budget for this year. No firefighters were fired
this year after 70 retired, including 13 in December alone,
according to West.  Newark, a city of about 280,000 people where a quarter of
residents live below the federal poverty level, had its credit
rating lowered yesterday by Moody’s Investors Service, which
cited concerns about the ability to raise revenue and make
additional spending cuts. The median household income in Newark
is $35,601, about a third less than the U.S. average, Census
Bureau data  show .  The city may be forced to fire more workers as it enters
next year as much as $42 million short, Business Administrator
Julien Neals said in a Dec. 7 interview. Booker told reporters
that day he hoped the job cuts could be achieved through
attrition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 