-- Brazil GDP Rose Faster-Than-Predicted 0.5% in Third Quarter on Investment
-- B y   I u r i   D a n t a s   a n d   A l e x   R a g i r
-- 2010-12-09T14:38:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/brazil-third-quarter-gdp-expands-0-5-from-previous-quarter.html
Brazil’s economy slowed less than
economists forecast in the third quarter on soaring investment
and consumer spending.  Gross domestic product  grew 0.5 percent from the previous
quarter and 6.7 percent from a year earlier, the national
statistics agency said today in Rio de Janeiro. Economists
expected a 0.4 percent and 6.8 percent expansion, respectively,
according to the median forecast in surveys by Bloomberg.  The pace of economic growth slowed from the revised 1.8
percent quarterly expansion in the April-June period and 2.3
percent expansion in the first quarter. It was the slowest
expansion since Latin America’s biggest economy emerged from the
global financial crisis in the second quarter of 2009.  The slowdown should be “short-lived blip” as the economy
shows signs of gaining steam again,  Neil Shearing , an emerging
markets economist for London-based Capital Economics, wrote in a
report. If policy makers raise interest rates to slow  inflation 
running at a five-year high they could attract more foreign
capital inflows, putting pressure on the real, Shearing said.  Investment increased 21.2 percent from the previous year,
and 3.9 percent from the second quarter. Consumer spending rose
5.9 percent from a year ago and 1.6 percent from the previous
three months. Even as domestic demand remained heated,
manufacturing fell 1.3 percent from the second quarter. Imports
rose 7.4 percent, faster than a 2.4 percent increase in exports.  7.5% Growth ‘Guaranteed’  Central Bank President  Henrique Meirelles , in a statement,
said the “very positive” investment signaled Brazil’s “good
economic moment” will continue in the coming quarters. Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega  told reporters that 7.5 percent growth
this year is “guaranteed” even if the economy doesn’t perform
as well in the final quarter.  “The brief period of an intense slowdown is being
overcome,” Meirelles said.  Yields on interest rate futures contracts fell after the
release. Yields on contracts maturing January 2011, the most
traded in Sao Paulo stock exchange today, fell 8 basis points,
or 0.08 percentage point, to 10.64 percent at 9:35 a.m. New York
time. The real fell 0.4 percent to 1.6966 per U.S. dollar.  Revisions  The statistics agency revised second quarter GDP growth to
9.2 percent from a year earlier, up from a previous estimate of
8.8 percent. First quarter GDP expanded 9.3 percent on an annual
basis, up from 9 percent. Latin America’s biggest economy shrank
0.6 percent in 2009, more than the 0.2 percent previous
estimate, the agency said.  Policy makers in Latin America’s biggest economy kept the
benchmark interest rate unchanged at 10.75 percent for a third
consecutive meeting yesterday after lifting the Selic earlier in
the year by 200 basis points, or two percentage points, from a
record low of 8.75 percent. The central bank will increase
borrowing costs to 11.25 percent next month, according the
bank’s latest weekly survey.  Brazil’s central bank, concerned about a credit bubble,
last week boosted reserve and capital requirements to slow
consumer lending that’s growing 20 percent annually.  Reserve requirements on time deposits will rise to 20
percent from 15 percent and an additional requirement for non-
interest bearing accounts will climb to 12 percent from 8
percent. The moves will remove 61 billion reais ($36 billion)
from circulation, the central bank said.  Brazil’s consumer prices rose at the fastest pace in more
than five years in November, fueling forecasts the central bank
will need to raise rates next month.  Inflation  accelerated to
0.83 percent from 0.75 percent in October, the biggest increase
since April 2005, the national statistics agency said yesterday.  Annual inflation through November was 5.63 percent, abover
the central bank target of 4.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Ragir  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net ;
 Iuri Dantas  in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  