-- Brazilian Rate Futures Fall as Bank Signals `More Time' to Increase Rate
-- B y   B e n   B a i n   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2010-12-09T20:32:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/brazilian-rate-futures-fall-as-bank-signals-more-time-to-increase-rate.html
Yields on shorter-term Brazilian
interest-rate futures contracts fell after the central bank said
it needed “more time” to gauge the impact of higher reserve
requirements for lenders and Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said
the government would cut spending next year.  The yield on the contract maturing in January declined to
the lowest level since October, dropping 8 basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to 10.64 percent at 3 p.m. New York time.
Investors are still betting policy makers will boost rates about
50 basis points next month, calculations by Bloomberg show.  The real fell for a third day, weakening 1.2 percent to
1.7103 per dollar from 1.6903 yesterday.  Central bank policy makers including  Alexandre Tombini , who
has been nominated to take over as bank chief next month, voted
unanimously yesterday to keep the Selic rate at 10.75 percent,
matching the median forecast of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
The board said the bank faced a “less favorable scenario” than
at their last meeting.  “They’ve given themselves the option for waiting in
January and hiking in March, but the base case scenario is to
start hiking in January,” said  Ram Bala Chandran , a Latin
American currency and rates analyst at Citigroup Inc.  Investors made almost 3.2 million trades of the contract
due next month, a record.  “You’ve got big news so you have to trade on it, so it is
why you see volumes,” Bala Chandran said in a telephone
interview from New York.  Credit Growth  The eight-member central bank board, in a statement, said
they needed “more time” to gauge the economic impact of new
reserve requirements on banks to curb the growth of credit.  Mantega said on a conference call today that the government
would cut spending next year and inflation should be “close”
to the 4.5 percent target. The contract due in January 2012 fell
9 basis points, or 0.09 percent, to 11.98 percent, the lowest
level this month.  “The government is trying to conduct some sort of
tightening, but without actually having to hike rates,”  Vitali Meschoulam , a debt strategist with Morgan Stanley in New York,
said in a telephone interview.  The real declined the most today against the dollar among
16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Investors unloaded the
currency in part because the central bank failed to clearly
signal a rate increase would come in January, Meschoulam said.  “There were expectations that they were going to pave the
way for hikes in January and that doesn’t seem to be the case,”
Meschoulam said.  The real has gained 35 percent since the start of 2009, the
biggest increase among the six most-traded Latin American
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Mantega today said he is ready to take new steps to prevent
further real gains in the currency.  Brazil’s government in October tripled to 6 percent a tax
on foreigners’ fixed-income purchases to discourage inflows and
stem the real’s appreciation. It also raised to 6 percent from
0.38 percent the so-called IOF tax foreigners must pay to invest
in local derivatives.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Josue Leonel  in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
 Ben Bain  in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  