-- Brazil Leaves Options Open for Tombini to Decide Timing of Rate Increase
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   I u r i   D a n t a s
-- 2010-12-09T11:59:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/brazil-leaves-options-open-for-timing-of-2011-rate-increase.html
Brazil’s central bank kept its
options open for when it lifts interest rates to cool inflation
running at a  five-year high , after leaving its benchmark rate
unchanged yesterday at President  Henrique Meirelles ’ final board
meeting. Yields fell across the board.  Policy makers including  Alexandre Tombini , who is slated to
succeed Meirelles next month, voted unanimously to keep the
Selic rate unchanged at 10.75 percent. The decision matched the
forecast of 48 of 51 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Three
economists forecast at least a quarter-point increase.  The eight-member board, in a statement, said they faced a
“less favorable scenario” than in their last meeting, and they
needed “more time” to gauge the economic impact of new reserve
requirements on banks to curb the growth of credit.  “There is no smoking gun here that they are going to hike
rates in January,”  Marcelo Salomon , chief Brazil economist for
Barclays Capital, said in a telephone interview from New York.
“The markets are going to re-asses the probability that they
are going to hike already in January.”  Traders pared bets on a half-point rate increase next
month. The yield on interest-rate futures contracts maturing in
January 2011, the most traded on the Sao Paulo BM&F exchange,
fell 8 basis points to 10.64 percent at 6:52 a.m. New York time.
Yields on contracts due February fell 11 basis points to 10.72
percent.  The bank’s Dec. 3 announcement of an increase in reserve
and capital requirements for bank deposits has introduced
uncertainty about the time and magnitude of the rate increases,
said  Gray Newman , chief Latin America economist at Morgan
Stanley.  ‘Delay Again’  “The language today didn’t clarify that at all,” Newman
said in a telephone interview from New York. “It leaves the
door open for them, they could delay again.”  The world’s eighth-largest economy  expanded  0.5 percent in
the third quarter from the previous three months, the national
statistics agency said today in Rio de Janeiro. The figure,
while higher than the 0.4 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg
survey, was the slowest quarterly expansion since Brazil emerged
from the global financial crisis in the second quarter of 2009.  Gross domestic product  grew 6.7 percent from the same
quarter a year ago, spurred by a 21 percent increase in
investment and 5.9 percent growth in consumer spending.  The economy will grow 7.54 percent this year, its fastest
pace in more than two decades, according to the most recent
central bank survey.  Retail sales  grew 11.8 percent in the year through
September, the fastest pace since March.  Unemployment  fell to a
record low 6.1 percent in October.  Domestic demand, buoyed by consumer lending growing at a 20
percent annual pace, is fueling an acceleration of inflation.  Inflation Surge  Consumer prices, as measured by the benchmark  IPCA  index,
rose 5.63 percent in November from a year earlier and 0.83
percent from October, the biggest monthly increase since April
2005.  Inflation expectations for 2011 have accelerated to 5.2
percent, from 4.8 percent in August and 4.5 percent in March,
according to the central bank survey.  “The inflation picture is worsening and argues for policy
response,” said  Marcelo Carvalho , head of Latin American
research at Banco BNP Paribas Brasil in Sao Paulo. Carvalho
expects Tombini to raise the Selic by at least 50 basis points
next month.  Tombini  Tombini, who has been on the bank’s board since 2005, won
Senate committee approval to be the bank’s next president on
Dec. 7. At his confirmation hearing he echoed remarks made by
Meirelles that higher reserve levels would have an impact on the
economy, even though they aren’t a substitute for traditional
monetary policy tools.  President-elect  Dilma Rousseff  has pledged to contain
spending next year in a bid to reduce Brazil’s real interest
rate, the highest in the Group of 20 nations.  Higher borrowing costs are also putting pressure on the
real, as investors buy higher-yielding currencies with funds
borrowed at lower rates. The real, which is the best performer
among 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg over the past
month, appreciated 0.1 percent to 1.6894 per U.S. dollar.  “Although the statement raises doubts on when they will
resume rate increases, policy makers need lower inflation
expectations and a strong fiscal adjustment to avoid raising
rates,” said  Pedro Tuesta , a Washington-based economist for
Latin America at 4Cast Inc. “There won’t be enough time for
that before the January meeting.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Bristow  in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  