-- British Airways Says Hong Kong Workers Can't Bring Age Discrimination Suit
-- B y   J a m e s   L u m l e y   a n d   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2010-12-09T14:30:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/british-airways-says-hong-kong-staff-can-t-bring-u-k-lawsuit.html
British Airways Plc  told a London
court that a group of 16 Hong Kong-based former cabin crew
shouldn’t be allowed to sue the airline in the U.K. for age
discrimination.  British Airways had the right to make the workers retire at
the age of 45 because U.K. discrimination law doesn’t apply to
them, Thomas Linden, a lawyer for the carrier, told a panel of
judges at the Court of Appeal today.  “Parliament did not legislate to protect employees across
the world,” he said. “It protects employees who are employed
at an establishment in Great Britain.”  Europe’s third-biggest airline may also face a strike by
its U.K.-based flight attendants in a separate dispute over pay
and working terms. The Unite union, which represents about
11,000 flight attendants, said Nov. 29 that it would ballot its
members over further action after deciding not to back the
company’s most recent offer to workers.  Two lower courts have already ruled against British Airways
and allowed the former Hong Kong-based employees to bring a
claim. Linden said the lower courts erred.  During their employment with the airline, the flight
attendants flew into the U.K. around 28 times a year spending up
to three days in the country on each occasion.  Melanie Tether, lawyer for the Hong Kong crew, said that
the  earlier rulings  were correct and that all employees on U.K.
aircraft operated by a British business are entitled to
protection under the age discrimination laws.  “All employment on aircraft registered in the United
Kingdom and operated by a person who has his principal place of
business in Great Britain is to be regarded as employment in
Great Britain,” she said in written arguments.  The case is: British Airways Plc -v- Mak and Ors. Appeal of
Appellant from the order of The Employment Appeal Tribunal  To contact the reporters on this story:
 James Lumley  in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net ;
 Steven Rothwell  in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at  