-- Brookfield Buys Houston Tower as Second-Tier Office Markets Lure Investors
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2010-12-10T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/brookfield-office-acquires-53-story-houston-skyscraper-for-321-5-million.html
Brookfield Office Properties  paid
$321.5 million for Heritage Plaza, a 53-story skyscraper in
 Houston ’s downtown Skyline District, increasing its presence in
Texas’s biggest city.  The company bought the 1.2 million-square-foot (111,000-
square-meter) tower from Goddard Investment Group LLC.
Brookfield, downtown Houston’s largest office owner, now has 10
properties totaling more than 10 million square feet in the
city, the New York-based landlord said in a statement yesterday.  The sale demonstrates the attractiveness of the second-tier
U.S. office markets as investors drive up prices in cities such
as New York and Washington, said Christopher Macke, senior real
estate strategist at CoStar Group Inc., a Washington-based real
estate data service. Prices in New York, Washington and San
Francisco were up 37 percent through August from their 2009 low,
the MIT Center for Real Estate said in October.  “Houston is a logical secondary market to look at because
of the high percentage of industry related to energy,” Macke
said in a telephone interview. “We saw the same thing happen
back in ‘05, ‘06 when you couldn’t find properties because there
was so much competition, so people started looking at secondary
markets like a Houston.”  Houston, despite its rank as the fourth-largest U.S. city,
is generally less attractive to investors because it has
permissive zoning that makes it easier to build than in New York
and the other supply-constrained markets, Macke said. As
Houston’s  biggest office landlord , Brookfield is better
positioned than many of its competitors there, he said.  Rising Vacancies  The city’s downtown office vacancy rate was 12.7 percent at
the end of the third quarter, up from 11.4 percent a year
earlier, according to a report by Cushman & Wakefield Inc. Rents
averaged $29.24 a square foot, down from a peak of $30.53 at the
end of 2008.  The sale “speaks to the strength of the Houston market and
the ability of our people to execute in a challenging
environment,” said  Bob Goddard , chairman and chief executive
officer of Atlanta-based Goddard Investment, in an e-mailed
statement.  The seller bought the property in July 2005 for $128
million from an unidentified state pension fund, according to
the Goddard statement. Goddard renovated the building and added
on a 10-story parking garage.  The selling price totals $283 a square foot, Goddard said.  The purchase was financed partly with a $200 million fixed-
rate  loan  maturing in January 2023, at a 4.97 percent interest
rate, Brookfield said.  The tower at 1111 Bagby St., which overlooks Sam Houston
Park, is about 84 percent leased, the company said. Tenants
include Deloitte LLP and  EOG Resources Inc.   The skyscraper, designed by Houston architect Mohammad
Nasr, was completed in 1986. It features a pyramid top designed
to resemble ancient structures the architect saw while visiting
Mexico’s Yucatan peninsula, according to Emporis.com, a database
of tall buildings.  Heritage Plaza is Houston’s fifth-tallest building,
according to Emporis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David M. Levitt  in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel in New York at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  