-- Build America Extension Excluded From Senate Bill to Prevent Tax Increases
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y   a n d   R y a n   J .   D o n m o y e r
-- 2010-12-10T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/build-america-bonds-excluded-from-revised-senate-tax-measure-staffer-says.html
The U.S. Senate kept a continuation
of the Build America Bond program out of a bill to extend
income-tax cuts made in 2001 and 2003, according to a draft of
the legislation.  The federal subsidy for debt to finance bridges, roads and
other infrastructure wasn’t among changes made to win support
for the measure, the text released last night shows. The subsidy
pays 35 percent of the interest on qualified state and local
government bonds. At least nine Democrats sought to attach an
extension of the program, which ends Dec. 31, to the tax bill.  The failure is the latest in efforts to keep the Build
America program going for at least another year. The prospect of
its end has weighed on the $2.86 trillion municipal bond market
as public officials have rushed to borrow money at subsidized
rates and as investors expressed concern that traditional tax-
exempt debt issuance may surge next year.  “Allowing the BABs program to die would undermine the
economic recovery and harm taxpayers and working families across
the country,”  Tom Dresslar , spokesman for California Treasurer
 Bill Lockyer , said yesterday by telephone. “I know that
stimulus has become a dirty word but you’d be hard-pressed to
find an economic recovery program that has worked better.”  State and local issuers in the biggest U.S. state by
population have sold about $37.2 billion of the taxable debt,
according to data from Lockyer’s office.  Climbing Yields  The average yield on taxable Build America securities
climbed to an 11-month high of 6.37 percent this week as
investors demanded a  larger premium  to buy the municipal debt,
according to a Wells Fargo index. The yield on 30-year Treasury
bonds touched 4.50 percent this week, the highest since May.  Because they carry taxable rates comparable with corporate
debt, state and local issuers have marketed Build America
securities to pension funds, offshore investors and others who
don’t typically buy municipal securities. That has curbed the
supply of traditional tax-exempt bonds, sought by individuals
who can use the income-tax break, and buoyed their prices.  “This in effect was one of the approaches that attracted a
significant amount of private capital,” Oregon Senator  Ron Wyden , a Democrat and early champion of the program, said last
night in an interview outside the Senate chamber. “This has
significantly changed the municipal-bond market.”  More than $178 billion of the securities have been sold
since April 2009, when the program began, making them the
fastest-growing segment of the municipal market, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Without that alternative, cash-
strapped cities and states may need to finance public works
through tax-exempt borrowing.  Extension Support  While President  Barack Obama  and Democrats have supported
prolonging the program, which was created under Obama’s $814
billion economic-stimulus package, Republicans have opposed it.
Earlier extensions have passed the U.S. House of Representatives
only to stall in the Senate. Build America subsidies are
expected to add $36 billion to the national debt over 10 years,
according to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office.  The Senate bill puts in place a compromise Obama and
Republican leaders reached to extend current income-tax rates.
In exchange for meeting Republican demands to keep taxes from
rising for the wealthiest Americans, Obama won an extension of
unemployment benefits and a temporary cut in Social Security
payroll levies, to 4.2 percent from 6.2 percent, on income of up
to $106,800 next year.  With Republicans poised to take control of the House next
month, local governments, banks and other advocates have pressed
to extend the Build America program during the current so-called
lame-duck session of Congress.  Earlier Failure  Senate Finance Committee  Chairman  Max Baucus , a Montana
Democrat, included a Build America extension in a bill to
prolong income-tax rates adopted during President  George W. Bush ’s first term. That measure failed because it didn’t keep
levies from rising for top-earners, which Republicans opposed.  Baucus this week said the lame-duck session will only have
time for one major tax bill. Analysts including those at
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.  had anticipated that a measure to prolong
Bush-era rates would be the vehicle for Congress to extend the
Build America program.  While supporters may try to revive the subsidy in the next
Congress, the Republican control of the House presents a hurdle.
U.S. Representative  David Camp  of Michigan, a Republican who is
set to become chairman of the tax-writing Ways & Means
Committee, has criticized stimulus spending.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 William Selway  in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;
 Ryan J. Donmoyer  in Washington at 
 rdonmoyer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  