-- Prince Charles's Car Attacked in London During Student Protests Over Fees
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2010-12-10T13:15:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/cameron-coalition-set-to-face-first-test-as-lawmakers-vote-on-student-fees.html
Armed officers protecting  Prince Charles  showed “enormous restraint” when his car was attacked
by “thugs” in central London during student protests last
night, Metropolitan Police Commissioner  Paul Stephenson  said.  Responding to questions raised by Prime Minister  David Cameron  and others, Stephenson said the route taken by the
Rolls-Royce limousine carrying the heir to the throne and his
wife  Camilla  to the theater had been checked minutes before and
had been clear. An inquiry will be held into the incident, which
followed a day of clashes between police and protesters
demonstrating against increased student tuition fees, he said.  “The officers who were protecting their royal highnesses
showed very real restraint. Some of those officers were armed,”
Stephenson told BBC Radio 4’s “Today” program. “It was a
hugely shocking incident and there will be a full criminal
investigation into it.”  Charles and his wife, known as the Duchess of Cornwall,
were unharmed and continued with their West End theater visit.
The limousine, bearing the royal coat of arms, had paint thrown
at it. A window was cracked, and photographs showed the royal
couple in the car looking shocked.  London’s Evening Standard newspaper reported today, citing
police sources, that Camilla was hit by a protester through an
open window of the car. A protester managed to push a stick
through the window and jab her in the ribs, the Standard said.
The rear windows were opened by mistake, according to the
newspaper.  Not Hurt  A spokesman for Prince Charles’s household said the duchess
was not hurt in last night’s incident and declined to discuss
any details.  The attack took place after thousands of students staged
demonstrations around  Parliament  against a vote to let colleges
triple tuition fees. Cameron’s Conservative-led government won
by 323 to 302 in the 650-member House of Commons, heading off a
revolt by some members of the Liberal Democrats, the junior
coalition partners, who had pledged to oppose any rise.  “We must learn the lessons from a very regrettable lapse
of security,” Cameron told reporters in London today. “But in
the end let’s remember that this was not the fault of the
police, this was the fault of the people who tried to smash up
that car.”  ‘Arrested and Punished’  The prime minister said that “responsibility for smashing
property, for violence, lies with the people that perpetrate
that violence and I want to see them arrested and punished in
the correct way.”  Cameron retains his confidence in Stephenson and Home
Secretary  Theresa May  after yesterday’s incidents, the prime
minister’s spokesman,  Steve Field , told reporters in London
later. Neither the police chief nor May have offered to resign.  “It wouldn’t be appropriate,” Field said.  In 1982, Home Secretary  Willie Whitelaw  offered to resign
after an intruder broke into Buckingham Palace and sat on  Queen Elizabeth II ’s bed while she was in it. Prime Minister  Margaret Thatcher  persuaded him not to step down.  Field said there was no need for an independent inquiry and
the police should conduct the review themselves.  “The police are looking into what happened and
they will learn the lessons,” he said. “We have full
confidence in the police and the job they are doing. Clearly
there was a specific issue around what happened to the Prince of
Wales and the Duchess of Cornwall and we’re not going to
prejudge that investigation.”  ‘First Time for Everything’  The Press Association news agency cited Camilla last night
as saying she was “fine” following the attack. She joked about
the incident as she left the theater after the  annual Royal
Variety Performance , saying, “first time for everything,” PA
reported. The couple were driven away in a police van, the
agency said.  London Mayor  Boris Johnson  praised the “great fortitude of
spirit” of the couple for carrying on with their engagement and
blamed the violence on a large group of “agitators determined
to cause the maximum possible trouble and provocation.” He
questioned the choice of route the car took, while defending the
police, who he said were trying to strike a balance between
freedom to protest and maintaining order.  “It is very regrettable that in the heart of London the
heir to the throne can be surrounded by agitators and his wife
can be put in a position where she’s plainly alarmed,” Johnson
told BBC radio. “There are questions to be asked about why
exactly they were on that route.”  ‘Operational Decision’  Tory lawmaker  Matthew Offord  said he was “concerned about
the operational decision to escort the Prince of Wales near to
the known scene of a demonstration and will be taking the matter
up with the home secretary.”  Thirty-four people were arrested for violent disorder,
criminal damage, arson, burglary, assault on police and being
drunk and disorderly in the capital during yesterday’s protests,
the police said. At one point, protesters attempted to break
into the building housing the Treasury near Parliament.  At least 43 protesters were injured, while 12 police
officers were hurt, six of them requiring hospital treatment,
the police said.  Windows were boarded up in the Treasury building today and
staff worked to clean up Whitehall and Parliament Square,
removing graffiti with high-pressure hoses. Police forensics
officers in hooded coveralls scoured the grass in the middle of
the square looking for evidence.  Joana Pinto, a spokeswoman for the  National Campaign
Against Fees and Cuts , the umbrella group that organized the
demonstration, said the police had been “incredibly violent”
in their handling of the protest. The group tried to hold a
peaceful rally and had no involvement in the attacks on people
and property, she said.  “We would like to disassociate ourselves from those sorts
of actions,” Pinto said in a telephone interview. “It’s like a
football match: How can cheerleaders be liable for drunk and
disorderly people going and smashing windows afterwards?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Penny  in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 