-- Canada’s Currency Trades Within Cent of Parity With U.S. Dollar
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2010-12-09T19:56:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/canada-s-currency-rises-to-within-cent-of-parity-with-its-u-s-counterpart.html
The Canadian dollar came within a
cent of parity with its U.S. counterpart as crude oil, Canada’s
biggest export, traded near a 26-month high.  The currency rose for a second day before trimming gains as
stocks pared an advance. The Bank of Canada said in a report the
risks to the nation’s financial system have increased in the
past six months because of Europe’s debt crisis, global trade
imbalances and rising debt of local households.  “It’s not a surprise to see dollar-Canada in a very tight
range,” said  Matthew Strauss , senior currency strategist in
Toronto at Royal Bank of Canada. “We don’t need to look much
further than equity and commodity markets,” which have been
little changed today.  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, strengthened as much as 0.5
percent to C$1.0067 per U.S. dollar before trading at C$1.0109
at 2:54 p.m. in Toronto, compared with C$1.0112 yesterday. One
Canadian dollar purchased 98.92 U.S. cents. The loonie last
traded on a one-for-one basis with the U.S. currency on Nov. 11.  Crude for January delivery rose 1.3 percent to $89.42 a
barrel in New York before fluctuating as a drop in U.S.
unemployment-benefit claims bolstered optimism in the world’s
biggest economy while U.S. dollar gains reduced the appeal of
commodities to investors. Crude futures reached $90.76 a barrel
on Dec. 7, the highest level since October 2008.  The Standard Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.5 percent before
trimming the gain to 0.1 percent.  ‘Further Pickup’  “I’d look for a further pickup from commodities and
equities to be a motivator for a directional bias away from the
U.S. dollar and into commodity currencies like Canada,” said
 Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign exchange at National
Bank of Canada in Toronto.  Speculation that the Bank of  China  may raise interest rates
to cool its economy has helped to restrain gains in the loonie,
Spitz said. Raw materials going to nations including China
account for about half of Canada’s exports.  Policy makers in China may lift borrowing costs after
inflation data due Dec. 11 shows consumer prices advanced 4.6
percent in November from a year earlier, after climbing 4.4
percent in October,  Frances Cheung , a Hong Kong-based senior
strategist at Credit Agricole SA, wrote in a report.  The U.S. dollar rose today versus the euro, gaining 0.3
percent to $1.3229. The Canadian dollar traded near the
strongest level since September against the euro, gaining to as
high as C$1.3305 after a downgrade to Ireland’s credit rating
added to concern Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis may spread.  2010 Gain  The 16-nation currency fell against 11 of its 16 most-
traded counterparts as Fitch Ratings reduced Ireland’s rating by
three notches and the nation’s government planned a vote on an
85 billion-euro ($114 billion) international bailout package.  “There’s a lot of nervousness around what is going on in
Ireland,” said  Jens Nordvig , a managing director of currency
research in New York at Nomura Holdings Inc.  The loonie has appreciated 3.7 percent this year in a
measure of 10 developed-nation currencies, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The Australian
dollar climbed 9.5 percent, while the greenback fell 1 percent
and the euro dropped 9.3 percent.  Reduced investor confidence linked to indebted European
governments could hurt Canada by making credit less available
and more expensive, the Bank of Canada said today in its twice-
yearly Financial System Review. Large current-account deficits
and surpluses could slow the global recovery, and Canadians are
more vulnerable because of high debts, the report said.  ‘Adverse Effects’  “Acute fiscal strains in peripheral Europe and weaknesses
in the European financial system could reinforce each other and
have adverse effects on other countries, including Canada,” the
report from Ottawa said. “Even though Canada’s financial system
is currently on a sound footing, risks are elevated and have
increased over the past six months.”  The central bank kept its  benchmark interest rate  at 1
percent on Dec. 7 for a second consecutive meeting, and said it
will remain careful about future increases as falling exports
and Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis hinder the economic recovery.  Shorter-term Canadian government bonds rose today, pushing
the yield on the two-year note down two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 1.67 percent. The 1.5 percent security due
in December 2012 gained 4 cents to C$99.68.  Initial claims for  jobless benefits  in the U.S. decreased
to 421,000 in the week ended Dec. 4 from a revised 438,000 the
previous week. Economists in a Bloomberg News survey forecast a
decline to 425,000.  Canadian  new-home prices  increased 0.1 percent in October,
Statistics Canada data showed today in Ottawa. October’s
increase matched the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 13
responses and followed a 0.2 percent gain in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Kruger  in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  