-- Chef Koffmann Prefers Supermarket Mince Pies to Pricey Harrods
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2010-12-09T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/chef-koffmann-eats-12-mince-pies-prefers-supermarkets-to-pricey-harrods.html
A mince pie from the Netto budget
supermarket chain beat pies costing up to six times the price in
the fourth annual Bloomberg test of the Christmas treats.  Pierre Koffmann, the French chef who held three Michelin
stars at La Tante Claire and opened Koffmann’s this year, was
the blind taster. He placed Netto second only to  Fortnum &
Mason . Netto’s cost 23 pence ($0.36) apiece, compared with 143
pence for Fortnum’s.  Last year, Chef  Marcus Wareing  gave top marks to  Marks &
Spencer . In 2008, Heston Blumenthal went for Fortnum & Mason and
said of Netto’s: “I’d rather eat my toenails.” A year earlier,
his highest marks went to Selfridges Traditional.  All the retailers supplied their pies for the test apart
from Harrods, which declined, and Starbucks, where I picked them
up on my way to the tasting, at Koffmann’s.  Here, in ascending order, are Koffmann’s marks and
comments. The price per pie is in parentheses.  Marshfield Bakery  Handmade, Selfridges (75 pence): “The
presentation is awful. If you want to make your family believe
you made it yourself, buy this one: They will believe you. It
doesn’t seem to be done by a professional. If you are starving,
you can have it. It doesn’t taste especially nice.” 1/10  Pret a Manger  (99 pence): “The presentation is very
amateurish. It’s what you expect from your grandmother after
she’s had a few glasses of sherry. It’s absolutely nothing
special. There’s no spice.” 3/10  Selfridges  (1 Pound): “This one looks nice. The pastry is
nice but the filling is pureed. It went through a machine. On
the other ones, you’ve got pieces of fruit. This is a kind of
baby food. The presentation is fine but you’ve got no strength
in the taste of the filling.”  3/10.  Harrods  Mince Pies with Apricot and Marc de Champagne (132
pence): “The pastry seems fine. This isn’t bad but there’s a
lack of spice. You don’t eat it for pleasure, you eat it because
it’s tradition.” 4/10  Marks & Spencer  All Butter Mini Pie Selection (42 pence):
“This one is beautiful: It’s tiny. That’s what I expect of a
mince pie. The pastry is very good but there is no personality
in the mix inside. It needs spices. Sad because the presentation
is good.” 4/10  Waitrose  Duchy Organic Mince Pies (66 pence): “On
presentation, only a couple of all these pies show any thought.
They should do a bit better. The pastry’s hard. I need a new
knife. Nothing special: It doesn’t taste very fresh. It’s a type
of cake you want to forget quite fast.” 3/10. ( Duchy Originals
Ltd.  was established by  Prince Charles  in 1990.)  Waitrose All-Butter Mince Pies (38 pence): “This one could
last another year: The pastry is so strong, so hard, you’ve got
to be a body builder to break that. It’s not fresh. The pastry’s
not good and the mix is a bit dry. Nice piece of fruit. It does
nothing for me this one.” 4/10.  Aldi  Holly Lane Luxury (25 pence): “In France, we are not
used to mince pies. We don’t have that tradition so it’s new for
me. It’s Christmassy: sugar on top, a little star. The pastry is
nice, melting in your mouth. This is not bad.” 5/10  Starbucks Luxury All-Butter (1.45 pounds): “This is quite
big -- for when you have nothing else to eat. You’ve got pieces
of fruit but it’s too much like opening a jar of jam.” 5/10.  Tesco  Finest Deep Filled with Courvoisier VS Cognac (33
pence): “Very simple presentation. The pastry seems to be
properly cooked. Nice piece of fruit inside. You can feel the
orange skin. There’s a little bit of bitterness to balance the
sweetness.” 6/10.  Netto  Cake Collection Deep Filled Luxury Brandy (23 pence):
“On the presentation, it will have a 10 from me, maybe with
just a little bit of caster sugar on top to make it shine, but
that’s the only thing I would add because it’s very good. The
pastry is fine. Maybe a bit more spice. I enjoy it.” 7/10  Fortnum & Mason  Traditional with brandy (142 pence): “It
looks nice. The pastry is perfectly cooked. It’s golden. The
size is slightly big for me. This is more like a meal. The
pastry is crumbly. This one is very good. I like the taste of
the spice. I’m enjoying it.” 8/10  To contact the writer on the story:
 Richard Vines  in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or Richardvines on
 http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 