-- Chick-fil-A Vies With Beef `O' Brady's Bowl During College Football Frenzy
-- B y   J o e l   S t e i n
-- 2010-12-09T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/chick-fil-a-vies-with-beef-o-brady-s-bowl-during-college-football-frenzy.html
In the world of college football
bowl games, it’s not the year that matters, it’s the naming
rights.  The Peach Bowl is now the Chick-fil-A Bowl, the Citrus Bowl
is the Capital One Bowl and the Motor City Bowl is the Little
Caesars Pizza Bowl.  Other teams will be competing at the Outback Bowl, the
Insight Bowl, the MAACO Bowl Las Vegas, the Meineke Car Care
Bowl, the Kraft Fight Hunger Bowl, the Military Bowl and the
Beef ‘O’ Brady’s Bowl, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its
Dec. 13 issue.  Unlike other major sports’ governing bodies, college
football’s -- National Collegiate Athletic Association --
doesn’t run its own postseason. Instead, it allows private
companies to start their own bowl games, invite teams to play
and then -- if they choose -- bring on sponsors. It’s such a
free-market system that Dan Wetzel, co-author of the new book
“Death to the BCS” -- meaning the  Bowl Championship Series  --
said, “I could start a bowl.” The BCS oversees five games --
the Rose, Orange, Fiesta and Sugar bowls as well as the BCS
championship game.  Twenty-six percent of fans like the current bowl system,
according to a Quinnipiac University poll.  Barack Obama  and  John McCain  campaigned against it, and it pulls in a lot less money
than would a playoff system such as that used in college
basketball.  Outsource Product  “It’s the only business that outsources its most
profitable product,” Wetzel said. “Other than to see their own
team, nobody says, ‘I have to go to the Humanitarian Bowl!’”  While no other business would spend decades investing in a
program only to hand it over to a third party, dozens of schools
do every year even with a limited payoff. Says Wetzel: “There’s
nothing like holding up a trophy from the galleryfurniture.com
Bowl.”  With 70 teams playing in bowl games this year, lots of
stadiums will be pretty empty. While bowls can profit from
requiring schools to buy blocks of full-price tickets to sell to
fans, few institutions can unload their bounty -- particularly
when they’re playing in a bowl in Boise, Idaho, site of the
 uDrove Humanitarian Bowl  on Dec. 18.  $1.77 Million Loss  Even at the 2009 FedEx Orange Bowl (now the Discovery
Orange Bowl), Virginia Tech sold 20 percent of the 17,500
tickets it bought for $120 apiece. It lost $1.77 million.  Still, virtually all colleges play along, often so they
can tell recruits and donors they went to a bowl game -- even
the Beef ‘O’ Brady’s Bowl, set for Dec. 21 in St. Petersburg,
Florida. And many coaches and athletic directors get bonuses for
getting their teams into a bowl.  “These bowls are a scam,” said Brian Frederick,
executive director of the  Sports Fans Coalition , a lobbyist
group. “They make money by selling names to sponsors. That’s
why you get these awful names. The uDrove Humanitarian Bowl?
What the hell is that?”  Frederick is one of several lobbyists in an industry you
might think would need none.  Ari Fleischer , former press
secretary to President  George W. Bush , works for the BCS.
Playoff PAC, a political committee focused on the college
football postseason, lobbies against it. Representative  Joe Barton , a Texas Republican, held antitrust hearings against the
BCS last year, and Senators  Orrin Hatch , a Utah Republican, and
 Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat, are trying to end the BCS
system. (Their home states have universities in conferences
without automatic bids to BCS games.)  ESPN Support  The biggest company backing the system is ESPN, which airs
35 bowl games and owns seven of them, including the Bell
Helicopter Armed Forces Bowl, the BBVA Compass Bowl and the Beef
‘O’ Brady’s Bowl.  “Our No. 1 goal is to find a multiyear relationship with
a sponsor,” said Pete Derzis, senior vice president and general
manager of ESPN Regional Television. “We don’t want to be in
the rebranding business every other year.”  ESPN  says it has never had a sponsorship name rejected by
the NCAA.  “We have our own filter,” said  Tom Hagel , senior
director at ESPN. “When you’re in the bowl business, it’s
almost like you’re buying a house in a neighborhood. You don’t
want a real bad house in the neighborhood.”  It is, however, a neighborhood big enough to have included
the CarQuest Bowl, the California Raisin Bowl and, starting this
year, the  GoDaddy.com Bowl  -- which used to be the GMAC Bowl
until the U.S. government decided the name wasn’t worth
taxpayers’ money. Known for its racy commercials, the Internet
domain registry company’s proposed sponsorship “received some
discussion,” said Nick Carparelli, chairman of the NCAA
football issues committee. “But in the end the NCAA is not in
the censorship business. Bowl games are independent
businesses.”  Business Is Good  For many sponsors, business is good. When AB Electrolux
Home Products pulled out of the Independence Bowl in Shreveport,
Louisiana, locally based Poulan WeedEater sponsored the game
from
1990 until 1996, when the bowl moved to North Carolina.
“Overall,
it was a net benefit,” said Evin Ellis, the company’s marketing
communications manager. “We consider WeedEater the Kleenex of
weed whacking.”  Perhaps, but the sponsorship did have a lasting effect:
“Weedwhacker Bowl” now refers to a college bowl that no one
really cares about. And while such a fate could befall the
GoDaddy.com Bowl, the company’s chief executive officer,  Bob Parsons , believes the sponsorship will drive traffic to its
website. “We don’t do anything that doesn’t make money,”
Parsons said.  Long Tradition  The GoDaddy.com Bowl might not have the luster of the
Masters Tournament, but the 1902-founded Rose Bowl in Pasadena,
California, the 1935 Sugar Bowl in New Orleans and the 1935
Orange Bowl in Miami were working pretty hard for their local
industries, too.  “If you trace bowl games back to their beginning, the
whole idea was to stimulate tourism by bringing together two
college teams in different communities,” said the NCAA’s
Carparelli. So the  San Diego County Credit Union Poinsettia Bowl 
is part of a century-old sports tradition. And like many
traditions, over time it has gotten a lot bigger, and a lot
tackier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Kelly  at 
 jkelly101@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kelly at 
 jkelly101@bloomberg.net  