-- Chimei Leads Slump in Asian LCD Maker Stocks After EU's Price-Fixing Fine
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m   a n d   A d a m   L e
-- 2010-12-09T05:08:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/chimei-leads-slump-in-asian-lcd-maker-stocks-after-eu-s-price-fixing-fine.html
Chimei Innolux Corp.  slumped in
Taipei trading, leading flat-panel makers lower after the
European Union fined five companies for fixing prices of liquid-
crystal displays.  Chimei Innolux fell 5.3 percent, the biggest intraday drop
since June 7, to NT$38.30 as of 12:17 p.m. on the Taiwan Stock
Exchange. AU Optronics Corp. retreated 2.1 percent to NT$30.15,
and HannStar Display Corp. lost 0.2 percent to NT$5.63.  Chunghwa Picture Tubes Ltd.  and South Korea’s  LG Display Co. 
were also among companies fined a total of 648.9 million euros
($863 million) by the EU Competition Commission. The fines,
announced yesterday in Brussels, exceeded expectations as the EU
seeks to punish the companies, accused by the commission of
operating a cartel from October 2001 to February 2006.  “The size of the fines surprised the market and will have
to be accounted for in fourth-quarter financial reports,” said
 Charles Hsu , who rates Chimei Innolux “buy” and AUO
“neutral” at Fubon Financial Holdings Co. in Taipei. “This
fine will weigh on the shares in the short term, while sentiment
is also weakening as we see signs that demand is still not
strong.”  Appeals  Chimei Innolux has yet to decide whether it will appeal its
300 million euro fine, which was more than it expected,  Eddie Chen , a spokesman at the Miaoli, Taiwan-based panel maker said.
The penalty would likely be accounted for in fourth-quarter
earnings, he said.  AUO said it will appeal the decision, while Chunghwa
Picture said it hasn’t decided whether to appeal and that it had
made “sufficient” provisions to cover the fine.  HannStar Display is unlikely to appeal the fine, which is
in line with the company’s expectations,  Justin Chien , an
investor relations spokesman, said by telephone today.  LG Display, the second-biggest panel maker, said in an e-
mailed statement it may appeal the decision to the EU General
Court if it finds there were “procedural or substantive due
process issues with the investigation.” The company was fined
215 million euros, according to the EU.  The commission said  six manufacturers  in the cartel met
about 60 times, usually every month in hotels in Taiwan, to
agree on prices for LCD panels, the main component of thin, flat
monitors used in televisions. They met to discuss price ranges
and minimum prices, and to swap information on future production
plans and capacity, according to the EU.  The companies sold panels worth about 7 billion euros in
Europe during the period in question.  Samsung Electronics Co.  wasn’t fined because it informed on
the cartel and provided “valuable information,” EU Competition
Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said yesterday. Ki-yung Nam, a
spokesman for Samsung in Seoul, said the company provided
information to the commission and that the price fixing only
affected markets in the European Union.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Taipei at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
 Adam Le  in Osaka at 
 ale14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  