-- Youku.com Surges 161% in Biggest Advance for U.S. IPO Since Baidu in 2005
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 2010-12-09T00:51:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/china-s-youku-com-surges-161-in-biggest-advance-for-u-s-ipo-since-2005.html
Youku.com Inc.  had the largest gain
for a U.S. initial public offering in five years and  E-Commerce
China Dangdang Inc.  almost doubled in its debut after investors
flocked to buy into China’s Internet boom.  Youku.com, China’s largest online video company, soared 161
percent to $33.44 yesterday, after completing a $203 million
IPO. The first-day advance was the biggest since  Beijing-based
Baidu Inc. , owner of China’s most-used Internet search engine,
more than quadrupled after its offering in August 2005. China
Dangdang, the country’s biggest book retailer, gained 87 percent
after its  $272 million  initial sale.  The offerings were the first of five mainland Chinese IPOs
scheduled in the U.S. this week. The four previous Internet
companies from China that completed sales this year surged an
average of 57 percent in their trading debuts, Bloomberg data
show. China, home to more than 400 million Internet users, may
expand four times as fast as the U.S. next year, according to
the  International Monetary Fund .  Youku.com and China Dangdang are “two companies that
excite investors’ imagination,” said  Jack Ablin , chief
investment officer at Chicago-based Harris Private Bank, which
oversees $55 billion. The IPOs represent an “intersection of
China and the Internet, and so everyone’s jumping on board for
that theme,” he said.  ‘Excellent and Cool’  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. of New York managed Youku.com’s
sale, while  Credit Suisse Group AG  in Zurich and New York-based
Morgan Stanley of New York led the offering for China Dangdang.
Both companies are based in Beijing.  Prior to Youku.com’s debut,  ChinaCache International
Holdings Ltd. , a Beijing-based provider of content for business
websites, had the biggest first-day rally on U.S. exchanges in
three years, jumping 95 percent on Oct. 1.  Youku.com , whose name means “excellent and cool,” sold
15.85 million ADRs for $12.80 apiece after offering 15.4 million
for $9 to $11 each, an SEC  filing  and Bloomberg data showed.  The midpoint valued Youku.com at 15 times projected annual
sales, compared with the median of 3 times estimated 2011
revenue for 12 U.S.-traded Internet-content providers, data
compiled by IPOdesktop.com and Bloomberg show.  It  hasn’t posted
a profit in the last three years.  China’s online-video market more than doubled to 621
million yuan ($93 million) last quarter, according to Beijing-
based research company Analysys International.  Google Inc.’s 
YouTube, the world’s most popular video-sharing site, is
inaccessible in China.  ‘Market Opportunity’  “The market opportunity, especially on the consumer side,
is becoming increasingly clear and continues to be robust,”
 Victor Koo , founder and chief executive officer of Youku.com,
said in a telephone interview from the NYSE. “That’s something
that’s interesting and exciting for a lot of U.S. investors.”  China Dangdang  sold 17 million American depositary receipts
at $16 each this week after originally offering them for $11 to
$13 apiece, according to a filing with the Securities and
Exchange Commission and data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company had increased the price range for its offering
to $13 to $15 apiece this week from $11 to $13.  The original midpoint valued the company at 48 times annual
earnings, based on third-quarter results, data compiled by
Marina del Rey, California-based IPOdesktop.com show. That’s 64
percent higher than the median of 29.2 times estimated profit
for 11 U.S.-traded Internet retailers, Bloomberg data show.  Amazon.com Inc.  of Seattle, the biggest online merchant,
trades at 39 times profit, the data show.  Online Demand   China Dangdang , which operates the  dangdang.com  website,
increased sales by 56 percent in the first nine months of 2010
from the same period a year ago, its prospectus said. The
company plans to use proceeds to broaden its product categories
and expand its order fulfillment capabilities.  China had an estimated 420 million Internet users at the
end of June, according to  data  from the government-sponsored
China Internet Network Information Center.  The U.S. population in 2010 ranged from 305.7 million to
312.7 million,  Census Bureau  data show. China’s economy will
grow 9.6 percent next year, versus 2.3 percent for the U.S.,
according to estimates from Washington-based IMF.  “Investors want to participate in the growth of
consumerism in China on the Internet,” said  Peggy Yu Yu ,
executive chairwoman and co-founder of China Dangdang, in a
telephone interview from the NYSE. “That’s behind their
interest in the stock.”  Best Performers  While four of the ten best performing U.S. IPOs of 2010
have come from China, shares of the last four mainland companies
that completed sales had retreated after the government raised
interest rates and bank reserve requirements and said it may
impose price controls.  SinoTech Energy Ltd.  which provides equipment to boost oil
field production, posted the steepest drop among Chinese IPOs
since the People’s Bank of China raised lending and deposit
rates in October for the first time since 2007. The Beijing-
based company slid 19 percent Nov. 3, the largest first-day fall
for a U.S. offering this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The PBOC increased banks’ reserve requirements five times
in 2010, while the government said on Nov. 17 it may impose
price controls to combat the fastest  inflation  in two years.  Three more Chinese IPOs are scheduled for this week, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Bona Film Group Ltd. , the nation’s
largest privately owned film distributor, plans to sell 11.7
million ADRs for $7 to $9 each, its SEC filing and data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Lentuo International Inc.  and  Sky-mobi Ltd.  will also
attempt to sell shares, the data show. Bona Film and Lentuo are
based in Beijing, while Sky-mobi is located in Hangzhou city in
China’s Zhejiang province.  The sales this week would bring the number of Chinese IPOs
in New York to 39 this year, surpassing the 37 in 2007,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lee Spears  in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
 Cecile Vannucci  in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 