-- VW, Peugeot Drop as China Group Says Rebates May End
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-09T13:36:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/china-may-end-auto-sales-tax-rebate-next-year-association-says.html
Volkswagen AG , PSA Peugeot Citroen
and Continental AG dropped after an automobile industry
association said Chinese incentives for buying cars will likely
expire at the end of the month as planned.  “Last year, we wrote to the government requesting an
extension for the tax incentives; this year, we don’t think it’s
appropriate,”  Xiong Chuanlin , vice secretary-general of the
China Automobile Industry Association, said today at a briefing
in Beijing. “Hence, I doubt the tax cuts will continue.”  Preferred shares at  Volkswagen , whose largest market is
China, plunged as much as 7 percent, Peugeot, Europe’s second-
biggest carmaker after VW, declined as much as 4.8 percent and
Continental dropped as much as 6.8 percent.  Stimulus measures in China, the world’s biggest auto
market, including a consumption-tax rebate for smaller vehicles,
subsidies for rural car-buyers and incentives to trade in older
models are all due to expire at the end of the December.
Deliveries in China last month surged 29 percent as buyers made
purchases before the rebates run out.  “Consumers who expect the stimulus policies to be
discontinued next year are bringing forward purchases before
time runs out,” said  Yu Bing , an automotive analyst at Pingan
Securities Co. in Shanghai. “There is little reason to support
the extension of the tax rebate and vehicle trade-in policies,
given robust industry growth.”  VW  dropped  as much as 9.05 euros to 120.20 euros and was
down 3.3 percent as of 2:34 p.m. in Frankfurt trading.
Continental, the region’s second-largest auto supplier, was down
4.7 percent. French automaker Peugeot traded down 2.6 percent in
Paris. The Stoxx 600 Automobiles and Parts subindex slumped as
much as 2.8 percent today.  Business Case Unchanged  The Chinese government cut a 10 percent tax on car sales to
5 percent in 2009 and then raised the rate to 7.5 percent this
year. The rate is set to go back to 10 percent in 2011.  “The news does not change the business case of VW in China
and certainly not our estimates and rating,”  Alexis Albert , an
analyst with Nomura Securities in London who has a “buy”
rating on the shares wrote in a note to investors. “We would
buy on today’s weakness.”  Volkswagen’s nine-month operating profit in China more than
doubled to 1.32 billion euros ($1.74 billion). The  carmaker ,
based in Wolfsburg, Germany, announced plans this year to add
two Chinese factories, bringing its total in the country to 11.
VW is investing 6 billion euros to double production in China to
3 million vehicles within four years from 1.4 million in 2009.  Sales of passenger cars including multipurpose and sport-
utility vehicles in China increased to 1.34 million in November,
higher than the previous record of 1.32 million in January,
CAAM, the industry association, said in a statement today. The
pace of growth was the fastest since April.  Sales Advance  Total vehicle sales including trucks and buses surged to
1.7 million, 27 percent more than a year earlier, the
association said. For the 11 months through November, total
vehicle sales rose 34 percent to 16.4 million.  “The subsidy’s target was to boost sales and help the auto
industry recover from the crisis in 2008,” said  Marvin Zhu , a
senior analyst at researcher  J.D. Power  & Associates in
Shanghai. “Growth now is far beyond the government’s target.”  The removal of tax cuts will have the biggest impact on
small car sales in China, said Zhu, who expects sales growth of
small cars to be cut by as much as 5 percent in 2011 after the
tax incentives end.  ‘Success Story’  “We are aware that the supporting measure of the
government for the sales of cars with 1.6-liter or smaller
engines could fade out at the end of this year,”  Christine Ritz , head of VW investor relations, said in an e-mailed
statement. “China is a success story for Volkswagen and there
is no reason why this should change.”  The stimulus measures helped China’s industrywide vehicle
sales jump 46 percent last year to 13.6 million, surpassing the
U.S. for the first time to become the world’s largest national
automobile market.  Total vehicle sales in China may rise to 18 million this
year, compared with an earlier forecast of 17 million, Xiong
said at today’s briefing. Sales next year will rise at least 10
percent, exceeding the country’s forecasted economic growth,
Xiong said.  “Car sales usually exceed GDP growth,” he said.  While demand may slow in 2011, carmakers such as  General
Motors Co.  and  Ford Motor Co.  continue to add new models. GM
introduced Baojun, a new “affordable” brand, on Nov. 22 to
grab share from local automakers such as BYD Co. and Geely
Automobile Holdings Ltd. and will begin selling the line next
year. Ford opened 40 dealerships in China on Nov. 25 and plans
to add a further 26 by year’s end.  -- Liza Lin ,  Wang Ying ,  Tian Ying . Editors:  Chad Thomas ,  Kenneth Wong   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7010 or
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  