-- Cholera in Haiti Brought by People From South Asia, Genome Analysis Finds
-- B y   R o b   W a t e r s
-- 2010-12-09T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/cholera-in-haiti-brought-by-people-from-south-asia-genome-analysis-finds.html
The  cholera  epidemic that has killed
2,120 people and hospitalized 44,000 in  Haiti  probably was
carried there by people who brought it from South Asia,
according to an analysis of the bacteria’s genome.  Using tissue samples from patients in Haiti, scientists at
Menlo Park-based  Pacific Biosciences of California Inc.  took
only two days to map the pathogen’s genome, the set of genes
that makes any organism unique. The Haitian strain is almost
identical to types found in South Asia and differs greatly from
those circulating in nearby Latin America, according to the
analysis published today in the  New England Journal of Medicine .  This suggests humans carried the Asian strain into the
country, which hadn’t had a cholera outbreak in more than 100
years even with its desperate poverty and lack of sanitation,
said Matthew Waldor, an author of the study. Better screening is
needed of people traveling from areas with endemic cholera to
regions where conditions could lead to an outbreak, he said.  “This strongly argues that cholera was introduced to Haiti
not on an ocean current from Latin America but by human
activities,” said Waldor, an infectious disease specialist at
Harvard Medical School in Boston. “It also suggests we can
prevent future Haitis by altering some policies.”  Cholera , which triggers severe diarrhea and dehydration and
can cause rapid death, is caused by various strains of the
bacterium Vibrio cholerae and is usually transmitted in
contaminated water.  Virulent Strain  The analysis also suggests that the Asian strain that hit
Haiti is especially virulent and raises the risk that it may
supplant other strains circulating in Latin America and spread
there, Waldor said. There is a need to increase the production
of cholera vaccines, which are now in short supply, he said.  After the Haitian earthquake in January, the U.S. Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention concluded that even with the
extensive damage to the country’s poor sanitation system, there
was not a great risk of a cholera outbreak because the disease
hadn’t been seen there in so long, Waldor said.  “That was wrong,” he said. “They didn’t consider global
movement of human beings.”  As a public health measure, people who travel from areas
that have high cholera rates should be screened before traveling
to regions where conditions could allow an epidemic to spread
rapidly, he said.  Rioting at Bases  Speculation that cholera may have been brought to the
country by Nepalese soldiers who came to the island as part of a
United Nations peacekeeping force has led to rioting at bases
where the peacekeepers are stationed. UN officials said Dec. 7
they are evaluating a report by a French epidemiologist who
concluded the outbreak began at a camp for the Nepalese
peacekeepers.  The new genomic findings are consistent with a Nepalese
origin, though the data don’t prove it, Waldor said.  The ability of researchers to sequence the genomes of the
cholera strains in just two days is due to advances in
technology developed by Pacific Biosciences, said the company’s
chief scientific officer,  Eric Schadt , one of the authors of the
study. The cost of chemicals used was less than $500 for each
genome they sequenced, he said.  Scientists have been trying to get the cost of sequencing a
human genome to $1,000 or less. While the cost continues to
drop, the $1,000 human genome is not yet here, Schadt said.
Human genomes are about 1,000 times larger than that of cholera
bacteria.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Waters  in San Francisco at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 