-- Christie, New Jersey Democrats Agree on Police and Fire Contract Caps
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2010-12-09T22:28:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/christie-new-jersey-democrats-agree-on-police-and-fire-contract-caps.html
New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie 
and Democratic legislative leaders compromised on a proposal
they said would help towns control costs to stay within a
property-tax cap that takes effect in less than a month.  The agreement would place a 2 percent threshold on salary
increases awarded to police and firefighters by mediators when
contract talks break down, and would require a decision be
reached within 45 days of either party requesting arbitration.
 Senate and Assembly  panels approved the measure, moving it to
consideration by the full membership of both chambers.  Christie, a first-term Republican, signed legislation in
July limiting annual increases in the nation’s highest property
taxes to 2 percent. He has since been prodding lawmakers to
approve a 33-point “toolkit’ by the end of the current session
that he said would help local officials stay within the cap.
Towns face the new limits Jan. 1.  “There’s nothing more important than getting property
taxes under control in this state and changing the system,”
Christie said at a Statehouse news conference in Trenton today
with legislative leaders from both parties. “This is the
product of compromise.”  The limit on arbitration awards would apply to all salary
increases, including longevity pay and cost-of-living
adjustments, Christie said. The governor agreed to Democrats’
call to exempt pension and benefit costs from the proposal,
while Democrats gave in to Christie’s demand for a “hard” cap.  Tax Growth  New Jersey’s schools and local governments rely on property
taxes as the prime source of revenue to support $42.8 billion in
spending annually, according to the state’s Community Affairs
Department. Levies on residences averaged $7,281 last year, up
about 70 percent in the past decade, according to state data.  Christie, the first Republican elected governor of New
Jersey since 1997, has said personnel costs are outstripping
revenue growth and that state and local governments need to
lower those expenses to control taxes.  Under the agreement with Democrats, towns and unions would
be allowed to exceed the cap when contracts are settled through
negotiations, Christie said. Municipalities can only exceed the
2 percent tax threshold by getting permission from voters in a
public referendum.  Opt-Out Negotiations  Christie said he’ll continue negotiating with lawmakers for
a related plan letting towns and cities opt out of civil-service
rules.  “This is a compromise but it’s also revolutionary,” said
Senate President  Stephen Sweeney , a Democrat from West Deptford.
“We’ve taken a process from the 1900s and brought it into the
future.”  Tony Wieners, president of the  New Jersey State Policemen’s
Benevolent Association  in Woodbridge, didn’t immediately respond
to a telephone message seeking comment. In a statement on the
group’s website posted before Christie’s announcement, he said
the union has “steadfastly opposed any effort to change the
current law.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 