-- Smoking Immediately Harms Lungs and DNA, Report Finds
-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 2010-12-10T00:14:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/cigarettes-harm-smoker-s-health-from-first-puff-surgeon-general-reports.html
Smoking causes immediate lung,
cardiovascular and DNA damage that may lead to illness or sudden
death, U.S. Surgeon General  Regina Benjamin  said.  New research shows that a toxic mix of more than 7,000
chemicals in cigarettes can harm the body “from the moment they
enter your mouth” by attacking tissues as smoke travels to the
lungs, Benjamin said in a  report  issued today. Smoking also
weakens the immune system’s ability to prevent damaged DNA from
causing cancer, she said.  Benjamin’s findings are the first Surgeon General’s report
issued under the Obama administration. The findings strengthen
the scientific reasoning for a plan by the  Health and Human
Services Department  to reduce the U.S. smoking rate to 12
percent in a decade from the current 20 percent,  Howard Koh , the
agency’s assistant secretary for health, said today at a news
conference.  “By learning how tobacco smoke causes disease, we learn
more about how chemicals harm cells, how genes may make us
susceptible, and how tobacco users become addicted to
nicotine,” Benjamin said in the report. “The answers to these
questions will help us to more effectively prevent tobacco
addiction and treat tobacco-caused disease.”  More than  46 million  adults in the U.S. smoke cigarettes,
according to the  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention  in
Atlanta. Smoking is the biggest cause of preventable death in
the U.S., killing about 443,000 people a year. Tobacco-related
illness costs the U.S. economy about $200 billion a year, HHS
Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  said at the briefing.  Decades of Research  A Surgeon General’s report issued in  1964 , when two-fifths
of U.S. adults smoked, was the nation’s  first  official
recognition that cigarettes cause serious illnesses including
cancer. While the U.S. smoking rate dropped by half in the next
40 years, it has remained at 20 percent since 2004.  Benjamin, whose mother died of lung cancer caused by
cigarettes, said her report is the 30th smoking-related study
issued by the office.  “This report focuses on how tobacco smoke causes damage to
almost every organ in your body,” Benjamin said at the
briefing. “One cigarette or exposure to second-hand smoke may
cause a heart attack. We didn’t know that before.”  An estimated 70 percent of U.S. smokers want to quit,
Benjamin said. While President  Barack Obama  is among them, White
House spokesman  Robert Gibbs  said today that he hasn’t seen
Obama smoking “in probably nine months.”  Obama’s Struggle  “The president would be the first to tell you that it’s a
struggle,” Gibbs told reporters today at the White House.
Smoking “is not something he’s proud of; he knows that it’s not
good for him” and “doesn’t like children to know about it,
obviously, including his.”  The U.S. must aggressively implement the HHS smoking-
reduction strategy in light of the new report,  Matthew Myers ,
president of the nonprofit  Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids  in
Washington, said today in an e-mail. The Food and Drug
Administration must “vigorously exercise” new authority to
regulate the tobacco industry, he said.  A law signed by Obama last year gave the FDA unprecedented
power to restrict the marketing of tobacco products and banned
companies from adding flavors such as clove or strawberry to
cigarettes. The law required that the FDA create the  Center for
Tobacco Products  and the 12-member Tobacco Products Scientific
Advisory Committee.  Advisory Panel  The advisory committee’s duties include helping the agency
decide whether to ban menthol cigarettes, assessing the health
effects of dissolvable tobacco products and evaluating
companies’ applications to offer new “modified-risk” tobacco
products.  Altria Group Inc. ’s Philip Morris USA, the biggest U.S.
cigarette maker, broke with rivals  Reynolds American Inc.  and
 Lorillard Tobacco Co.  to back the law as a way to standardize
manufacturing requirements and spur development of less-harmful
tobacco products.  “Philip Morris USA supports a variety of efforts to
communicate the health risks of tobacco use, prevent underage
use and connect smokers who wish to quit with effective
cessation information,”  Steve Callahan , a company spokesman,
said today in an e-mail. “The company supported legislation to
give the FDA regulatory authority over tobacco products,
including authority to address many of the issues discussed in
today’s press conference.”  Reynolds’s Response  Reynolds is reviewing the Surgeon General’s report and
isn’t in a position to comment on the specifics,  David Howard , a
spokesman for the Winston-Salem, North Carolina-based company,
said in an e-mail.  “What I can tell you is we believe individuals should
consider the conclusions of the U.S. Surgeon General, the
Centers for Disease Control and other public health and medical
officials when making decisions regarding smoking, and the best
course of action for tobacco users concerned about their health
is to quit,” Howard said.  Robert Bannon, a Lorillard spokesman, declined to comment
on today’s findings.  Reynolds and Greensboro, North Carolina-based Lorillard are
among tobacco companies seeking to overturn the parts of the
2009 law in court, such as a requirement that cigarette packages
start carrying graphic warning labels in 2012. Altria, of
Richmond, Virginia, isn’t part of the effort.  Nicotine Replacement  Obama has used nicotine replacement therapy in his battle
with cigarettes, Navy Captain  Jeff Kuhlman , head of the White
House medical unit, said in March after conducting the
president’s annual physical.  Asked whether she had any suggestions to help Obama remain
smoke-free, Benjamin said she’d give him the same advice she’d
offer to any other patient.  “Don’t give up, don’t be discouraged, because it may take
a number of times to try to quit and a number of efforts,” she
said. “And we now have medications that have been approved by
FDA to be able to use to treat it, which we didn’t have in the
past.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Molly Peterson  in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  