-- Griffin's Citadel Hedge Fund Hires Former JP Morgan Head Coal Trader Abreu
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2010-12-09T20:10:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/citadel-hires-former-jp-morgan-coal-trading-head-miguel-abreu.html
Citadel LLC, the $12 billion hedge
fund run by  Ken Griffin , said it hired former  JPMorgan Chase &
Co.  coal head  Miguel Abreu  to trade the commodity.  Abreu joined the Chicago-based firm this month,  Katie Spring , a spokeswoman for Citadel, said today in an e-mailed
response to questions. Abreu will trade from London in the
energy trading group led by  Mark Stainton , she said. Abreu
couldn’t be immediately reached for comment.  JPMorgan began dismissals in its commodities business in
July after buying parts of RBS Sempra Commodities LLP, according
to an internal conference call given by  Blythe Masters , head of
the unit, a recording of which was obtained by Bloomberg News.  Losses at JPMorgan’s coal business cost the company as much
as $250 million, the New York Post reported June 8, without
saying where it got the information.  JPMorgan bought RBS’s metals, oil and European power and
gas businesses for $1.7 billion from San Diego-based Sempra
Energy and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , headquartered in
Edinburgh. The sale was completed on July 1.  Masters said in July that the dismissals would eliminate
less than 10 percent of the combined “front offices.”  Oil trader  Ira Eisenstein  said yesterday he left  JPMorgan 
last week following the restructuring.  Citadel expanded into energy in 2002. Four years later
Citadel and JPMorgan Chase & Co. took over the energy trades of
Amaranth Advisors LLC when the hedge fund collapsed after losing
$6.6 billion on natural gas. Citadel later bought the positions
held by New York-based JPMorgan.  Citadel trades oil globally, as well as natural gas in
North America and gas and power in Europe, according to its
website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Juan Pablo Spinetto  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;
 Saijel Kishan  in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  