-- Statscan Early Data Release Outside Probe Ordered by Canadian Government
-- B y   A l e x a n d r e   D e s l o n g c h a m p s
-- 2010-12-09T21:18:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/clement-orders-third-party-review-of-statscan-to-protect-its-credibility-.html
Canadian Industry Minister  Tony Clement  today said he ordered a third-party review of Statistics
Canada after the agency said it had made data available to
distributors before the public got it.  “It is important that StatsCan, for its own credibility,
have a process of review about how data is released, when it is
released and to whom it is released, to make sure that is a fair
process that abides by our standards,” Clement told reporters
outside Parliament today.  The federal agency, Canada’s primary source of economic
information, said Dec. 7 it had allowed distributors to get
information as much as “59 seconds” ahead of the official
release. The agency stopped the practice on Nov. 25 after being
alerted to it by Bloomberg News.  “We have decided collectively that there will be an
independent third-party review of not only the instant issue but
also more generally on the release of data and how that’s
done,” Clement said, adding he met with his deputy minister and
the head of Statistics Canada to discuss the issue.  Clement’s governing Conservatives have been facing growing
pressure from opposition lawmakers to review the early release
of data amid concerns some individuals with advanced knowledge
of the data may have profited. Investors use the information to
trade bonds, stocks and the currency, as well as to place bets
on the path of monetary policy.  ‘Seriousness’ of Situation  The Canadian dollar is the world’s seventh-most traded
currency, according to an April 2010  survey  by the Bank for
International Settlements, with daily turnover on trades against
the U.S. dollar averaging $182 billion.  The third-party review is “an indication of the
seriousness of the situation,”  Thomas Mulcair , deputy leader of
the New Democratic Party, said in an interview in Ottawa. “As
we all know, in this day and age you can trade huge sums of
money almost instantaneously.”  Michael Ignatieff , leader of the opposition Liberal Party,
told reporters yesterday the government needs to get to “the
bottom of this” because of the possibility that someone has
profited.  The agency, which has a policy of providing equal access to
all users, said it is reviewing computer access logs as part of
its own investigation. The agency didn’t say how long it had
been providing the data early to distributors.  Statistics Canada has  agreements  with 10 distributors who
are licensed to disseminate its data, including Bloomberg L.P.,
the parent of Bloomberg News.  In a statement to Bloomberg Dec. 3, Statistics Canada
spokesman Peter Frayne said officials have conducted a
“preliminary examination” of access logs from November. That
investigation showed three distributors, including Bloomberg,
had access to the data “seconds” before the release time. The
agency has declined to name the two other distributors, citing
its policy on client protection, or say for how long the
practice had been going on.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  