-- CNO Financial Markets Debt as Junk Yield Spreads Plummet: New Issue Alert
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2010-12-09T10:10:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/cno-markets-debt-as-junk-yield-spreads-plummet-new-issue-alert.html
CNO Financial Group Inc. , the insurer
formerly known as Conseco Inc., is marketing debt after the
premium on junk bonds relative to Treasuries dropped the most
since September 2009.  CNO plans to sell $300 million of seven-year senior secured
notes, according to a company statement distributed by PR
Newswire. The debt may be issued as soon as next week, according
to a person familiar with the transaction, who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t set.  The extra yield investors demand to own high-yield
corporate bonds instead of U.S. government debt narrowed 7 basis
points to 562 basis points yesterday after declining 26 basis
points on Dec. 8 to 569 basis points, the biggest drop since
September 2009, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data. The appeal of higher-yielding securities is increasing as
Treasury rates increase, said  Anthony Valeri , a market
strategist with LPL Financial Corp.  Securities with lower coupons are “most sensitive to
interest rates,” Valeri said. “The lower coupon just means
less income, and that’s less of a buffer against price declines
associated with higher rates.”  Investors are snapping up junk debt as yields on the 10-
year Treasury advanced to 3.27 percent yesterday, the highest
since June 15, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
yield on 30-year Treasuries jumped to 4.46 percent, the highest
since May.  Kellogg, SocGen Sales  Absolute yields on high-yield, high-risk debt rose 2 basis
points to 7.94 percent yesterday, according to the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield Master II index. High-
yield, or junk debt, is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors
Service and BBB- by Standard & Poor’s.  Kellogg Co. , the largest U.S. maker of breakfast cereals,
and  Societe Generale SA , the second-largest French bank after
BNP Paribas SA, led $6.95 billion of issuance yesterday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Volume this week of
$19.6 billion compares with $14.15 billion in the three days
ended Dec. 1, Bloomberg data show.  CNO Financial may use proceeds from its debt sale, together
with borrowings under a new $325 million senior secured credit
facility and available cash, to retire its existing senior
credit facility, the Carmel, Indiana-based company said in the
statement.  Investment-grade corporate bond spreads narrowed 2 basis
points to 174 basis points yesterday, according to the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate Master index. Yields on the
debt rose 6 basis points to 4.13 percent. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  The following is a description of at least $6 billion of
pending sales of dollar-denominated bonds in the U.S.  Investment Grade  FIRST GULF BANK PJSC plans to sell five-year dollar-
denominated bonds that may yield between 3.25 percent and 3.5
percent, said three people familiar with the transaction, who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set. BNP Paribas
SA, Citigroup Inc., Deutsche Bank AG, HSBC Holdings Plc and
National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC are arranging meetings with
investors, two people said on Nov. 1. The Abu Dhabi-based lender
is rated A2 by Moody’s.  TRANSNET LTD., South Africa’s state-owned ports, rail and
pipeline operator, said it may sell $1 billion worth of bonds in
international markets to pay for expansion. Transnet has 35.2
billion rand ($5 billion) of debt outstanding.  High Yield  CNO FINANCIAL GROUP INC., the insurer formerly known as
Conseco Inc., plans to sell $300 million of seven-year senior
secured notes, according to a company statement distributed by
PR Newswire. Proceeds may be used, together with borrowings
under a new $325 million senior secured credit facility and
available cash, to retire CNO Financial’s existing senior credit
facility, the Carmel, Indiana-based company said in the
statement.  NALCO CO. plans to sell $1 billion of senior notes maturing
in 2019 in dollars and euros, according to a person familiar
with the transaction, who declined to be identified because
terms aren’t set. Proceeds will be used to repurchase the
company’s 8.875 percent dollar-denominated senior subordinated
debt due 2013 and 9 percent euro-denominated senior subordinated
debt 2013, and to issue a dividend to its parent to finance
further debt repurchases, according to a company statement.  RES-CARE INC., a provider of support services to special-
needs populations, plans to sell $200 million of senior notes
due 2018 through a private placement, the company said in a
statement distributed by Globe Newswire. Proceeds may be used to
repurchase outstanding senior notes due 2013 and to fund a share
exchange where an affiliate of Onex Corp. will acquire Res-Care,
according to the statement.  FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD., the Australian iron miner,
plans to $800 million of seven-year bonds, through its funding
arm FMG Resources (August 2006) PTY., according to S&P, which
rated the issue B. The debt will be callable in three years, and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. is managing the sale, which will be used to
expand capital expenditure and for general corporate purposes,
according to two people with knowledge of the sale.  AURORA DIAGNOSTICS INC., a closely held specialized
laboratory company, plans to sell $230 million of seven-year
senior unsecured notes, according to a person familiar with the
transaction, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t
set. The bonds may be issued through the company’s Aurora
Diagnostics Holdings LLC and Aurora Diagnostics Financing Inc.
units, the person said.  NOVELIS INC. , the U.S.-based aluminum unit of India’s
Hindalco Industries Ltd., plans to sell $2.5 billion of notes to
help pay for a recapitalization, according to a statement
distributed by PR Newswire. Novelis will also seek a $1.5
billion term loan and an $800 million asset-based loan, the
Atlanta-based company said in the statement. The company may
issue 7- and 10-year notes, according to a person familiar with
the transaction, who declined to be identified because terms
aren’t set.  CONVATEC INC., a medical products business, plans to sell
$1.87 billion of bonds to refinance debt used to fund its
leveraged buyout, according to three people with knowledge of
the transaction. The company, owned by Nordic Capital AB and
Avista Capital Partners, will issue $1.18 billion of eight-year
senior unsecured notes denominated in dollars and euros and the
equivalent of $690 million of seven-year senior secured notes in
euros, said the people, who declined to be identified because
the sale is private.  TRINIDAD DRILLING LTD. plans to sell $450 million of eight-
year U.S. dollar denominated notes, according to a person
familiar with the transaction. The senior unsecured debt, which
will be non-callable for four years, may yield 8 percent to 8.25
percent, said the person, who declined to be identified because
terms aren’t set.  IFH PERU LTD.  plans to add up to $100 million to its 8.625
percent 2019 bonds, according to two people with knowledge of
the sale. Barclays Capital and IM Trust are managing the sale.  PILGRIM’S PRIDE CORP., the chicken producer acquired by
Brazilian meat processor JBS SA last year, plans to sell $350
million of eight-year senior unsecured notes, according to a
person familiar with the transaction. The debt may yield 8
percent to 8.25 percent, said the person, who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t set. Proceeds may be used to
repay borrowings under the company’s existing term loan credit
facilities, according to a statement from the Greeley, Colorado-
based company.  SWIFT SERVICES HOLDINGS INC., a unit of the largest
truckload carrier in North America, plans to sell $490 million
of eight-year senior second-priority secured notes, according to
two people with knowledge of the sale. Bank of America Corp.,
Morgan Stanley, Wells Fargo Securities, Citigroup Inc., Deutsche
Bank AG and UBS AG are managing the sale. The notes will be used
to repay existing indebtedness, the people said.  MDA LENDING SOLUTIONS , the information- and settlement-
services provider to real estate lenders, may sell $175 million
of senior subordinated notes to help pay for its leveraged
buyout by TPG Capital, according to a Moody’s statement. The
MacDonald, Dettwiler & Associates Ltd. unit is also seeking $400
million of loans.  AFREN PLC , a U.K. oil and gas explorer focused on West
Africa, hired Deutsche Bank AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and BNP
Paribas SA to manage a sale of senior secured bonds in dollars,
according to two people with knowledge of the sale. The company
will meet bond investors in Europe and the U.S., said the
people, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  CYRELA BRAZIL REALTY SA EMPREENDIMENTOS E PARTICIPACOES ,
Brazil’s biggest homebuilder, hired Banco do Brasil SA, Credit
Suisse Group AG, Itau Unibanco Holding SA and Morgan Stanley to
arrange bond investor meetings, according to a person familiar
with the matter. Cyrela will meet with investors in Asia, Europe
and the U.S., said the person, who declined to be identified
because the conversations are private. S&P raised its rating on
the company one step to BB on Sept. 30.  DELONG HOLDINGS LTD., a Singapore-based steel trader, hired
Credit Suisse Group AG to help it organize meetings with
investors ahead of an international sale of guaranteed senior
notes. Money raised will be used to redeem 5 percent convertible
bonds due 2012, to repay bank loans and for acquisitions
relating to iron ore and other raw materials used by the steel
industry, the company said in a statement to Singapore’s stock
exchange. The dollar-denominated notes were assigned a
provisional rating of B3 by Moody’s, the ratings company said in
a note.  FLAKEBOARD CO., the Canadian producer of fiberboard and
particleboard used to build furniture and countertops, plans to
sell $225 million of senior secured notes maturing in 2017, S&P
said in a statement. The ratings company grades the proposed
U.S. dollar-denominated debt as B, according to the statement.  PT ENERGI MEGA PERSADA , Indonesia’s second-biggest listed
oil company, hired Nomura Holdings Inc. to help it with a dollar
bond sale, according to a person familiar with the matter who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  SI ORGANIZATION INC., the Lockheed Martin Corp. unit
formerly known as Enterprise Integration Group, may sell $175
million of senior subordinated notes, according to S&P. Proceeds
may be used with $340 million of bank debt and $370 million of
new common stock to pay for its acquisition by Veritas Capital,
S&P said.  Offerings in Pipeline  DEVELOPMENT BANK OF KAZAKHSTAN JSC plans to sell five-year
bonds in dollars, according to a person with knowledge of the
sale. Citigroup Inc., Deutsche Bank AG, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Halyk Finance arranged bond investor meetings earlier this
month.  AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP , the insurer rescued by the
U.S. government, is contemplating a new debt sale, a person
familiar with the matter said. The firm hasn’t considered a
timeline for when it might sell more bonds, said the person, who
declined to be identified because the terms aren’t set. AIG sold
$2 billion of bonds Dec. 1 in its first offering since it was
rescued by the U.S. government in 2008.  RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORP., India’s state-controlled
lender to power projects, hired Credit Agricole CIB, Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc and Standard Chartered Plc to sell $500
million of bonds. Rural Electrification aims to price 5.5-year
notes to yield between 195 basis points and 200 basis points
more than similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries Finance Director Hari
Das Khunteta said in a telephone interview from New Delhi on
Nov. 10.  PTT EXPLORATION & PRODUCTION PCL, Thailand’s only listed
oil and gas explorer, plans to sell bonds denominated in U.S.
dollars, according to a person familiar with the transaction.
PTT Exploration hired Barclays Plc to manage the sale, said the
person, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.
Barclays is arranging a U.S. dollar-denominated medium-term note
program for the company, the person said.  PTA BANK , or Eastern and Southern African Trade and
Development Bank, hired HSBC Holdings Plc and Standard Bank
Group Ltd. to arrange bond investor meetings in Europe and Asia,
according to two people with knowledge of the sale. The meetings
will be held in Hong Kong, Singapore, Zurich, Geneva and London,
said the people, who declined to be identified because terms
aren’t set. The company may sell dollar bonds after the
meetings, the people said.  MAQUINARIA ESPECIALIZADA MXO TRUST , a special-purpose
company expected to provide construction machinery services to
Corporacion GEO SAB de CV, hired Banco Santander SA to arrange
bond investor meetings, according to a person with knowledge of
the sale. A dollar bond sale may follow the meetings, to be held
in London, Boston, New York and Los Angeles, said the person,
who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  CREDIT BANK OF MOSCOW plans to sell five-year dollar bonds,
according to a person familiar with the transaction. The sale of
Reg S securities is being arranged by Commerzbank AG, ING Groep
NV and Raiffeisen Bank International, the banker said.  DOHA BANK QSC, Qatar’s third-largest bank, hired Morgan
Stanley and JPMorgan Chase & Co. to manage a planned $500
million bond sale, its chief executive officer said. The
offering, announced on the Qatar Exchange website, will be
marketed to investors in the U.S., Europe and the Middle East,
 Raghavan Seetharaman  said in an Oct. 20 telephone interview.  BELARUS may sell debt in the U.S. and Asia, according to
Finance Minister Andrei Kharkovets. “We will undoubtedly enter
the Asian and the American markets,” Kharkovets said in an Oct.
15 interview in Moscow, declining to comment on the timing of
possible sales.  GEORGIAN RAILWAY LLC, the former Soviet republic’s state-
owned rail company, is preparing a bond roadshow in the U.S.,
Giorgi Gagnidze, the company’s financial director, said in
comments broadcast on Rustavi-2 television.  AL BARAKA BANK EGYPT ESC, a unit of Bahrain-based  Albaraka
Banking Group , may sell dollar-denominated Islamic bonds in the
second half of 2011, the bank’s chairman said Sept. 29. The bank
has not decided on the size of the bond, he said.  TURKIYE IS BANKASI AS  hired JPMorgan Chase & Co., the Royal
Bank of Scotland Plc, Standard Bank Plc and Standard Chartered
to help find buyers for a planned bond sale during meetings in
the U.S. and Europe. Isbank made the announcement to the
Istanbul Stock Exchange after the market regulator approved a
sale of 1.45 billion liras ($1.03 billion) of bonds by the bank.
Isbank said the sale will be in dollars.  AEGIS LTD., an outsourcing unit of Essar Group, may sell
the first non-convertible dollar bonds from an Indian
information technology company. The company, which bought
PeopleSupport Inc. in 2008, may sell its bonds as part of a
financing package that would include a loan of as much as $350
million to consolidate debt, Chief Financial Officer C.M. Sharma
said.  JSW STEEL LTD , India’s third-largest steelmaker, plans to
sell dollar bonds for the first time in three years and as
rupee-denominated finance costs rise. JSW has applied for credit
ratings before a possible offshore bond sale to help build a 200
billion rupee ($4.3 billion) steel and power plant in West
Bengal, Chief Financial Officer  Seshagiri Rao  said.  ARGENTINA may sell $1 billion of bonds due in 2017, El
Cronista newspaper reported, without saying how it obtained the
information. The government is also planning to offer an
exchange for dollar bonds due in 2011 and 2012, the Buenos
Aires-based publication said.  INDONESIA plans to name three banks to help it sell about
$650 million of Islamic bonds,  Dahlan Siamat , director for
Islamic financing at the finance ministry, said in a telephone
interview in Jakarta. The government sold its first
international Islamic dollar bonds in April 2009.  URUGUAY may sell as much as $1 billion of bonds in 2011,
including $500 million of dollar-denominated debt,  Carlos Steneri , director of public credit at Uruguay’s Ministry of
Economy and Finance, said June 3 at a Latin Finance conference
in London. The dollar-denominated bonds may have a maturity of
20 years or more, Steneri said.  MALAYSIA plans to raise about $1 billion from its first
sale of conventional dollar bonds in eight years after drawing
bids for five times the Islamic debt it offered, a finance
ministry official said. The government may hire banks including
CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. and HSBC Holdings Plc to arrange the
sale by Sept. 30, said the official, who declined to be named as
the discussions are private. Malaysia raised $1.25 billion from
a Shariah-compliant dollar bond on May 27. Malaysia is rated A3
by Moody’s and A- by S&P.  GHANA is considering selling its second dollar bond in 2011
to tap investor demand as the start-up of oil production boosts
economic growth and narrows the budget deficit, Deputy Finance
Minister  Fifi Kwetey  said. The government was considering a
“no-deal roadshow” to gauge international investors’ appetite,
Kwetey said in a May 26 interview in Abidjan. Ghana sold its
first global bond in 2007, raising $750 million to help fund the
construction of roads and power plants.  MONGOLIA plans to raise $500 million selling bonds in 2010
and the remainder of a planned $1.2 billion program will be sold
according to market conditions,  Batbayar Balgan , director
general of the financial and economic policy department of
Mongolia, said at a forum in Ulan Bator on June 16. The
government scaled back its plans for global bond sales after
Europe’s debt crisis drove up borrowing costs. Investment banks
are advising Mongolia to issue debt with maturities of 5 years
to 10 years, Finance Minister Sangajav Bayartsogt said in a Feb.
9 interview. The securities may yield 8 percent to 11 percent,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sapna Maheshwari  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  