-- Colombia Cocaine Output Fell Last Year Amid Spraying, U.S. Drug Czar Says
-- B y   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 2010-12-09T18:57:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/colombia-s-cocaine-output-fell-last-year-as-peru-s-grew-u-s-agency-says.html
Colombia, the world’s biggest
supplier of cocaine, saw production of the illegal narcotic
decline last year amid a government spraying campaign and
declining U.S. consumption, according to a new report.  Colombia’s capacity to produce pure cocaine fell by 10 tons
to 270 metric tons in 2009 from a year earlier, and compared
with about 700 tons in 2001, the  U.S. Office of National Drug
Control Policy  said today in an e-mailed statement.  Cocaine production in Colombia fell to less than half the
world’s total last year, when Peru surpassed the nation in
cultivation of the drug’s base ingredient, the coca leaf, the
United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime said in June.  Colombia, backed by more than $600 million in annual U.S.
anti-narcotics aid, has stepped up drug eradication efforts this
decade and intensified its campaign against drug-funded
guerrilla groups.  Cocaine production in neighboring Peru rose last year, to
225 metric tons, while output in Bolivia remained stable at 195
metric tons, according to today’s statement by the White House
drug czar. Europe may be one of the main markets of both
nations, the U.S. said.  Cocaine usage in the U.S. is declining even as consumption
of other drugs increased in 2009 from two years earlier,
according to the statement.  As eradication and law-enforcement efforts increase,
traffickers are diluting the drug, the drug czar said. Purity of
cocaine seized in bulk shipments in the U.S. declined 14 percent
from 2006 to 2010. Colombia supplies about 95 percent of cocaine
consumed in the U.S.  Colombia’s government says the Revolutionary Armed Forces
of Colombia is the country’s biggest cocaine trafficker, and
dozens of its commanders have been indicted on drug-smuggling
charges by the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Heather Walsh  in Bogota at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  