-- Community Health's Spurned $3.3 Billion Bid for Tenet May Drive Suitors
-- B y   D a v i d   O l m o s
-- 2010-12-10T21:43:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/community-health-makes-unsolicited-7-3-billion-bid-for-tenet-healthcare.html
Community Health Systems Inc. ’s
unsolicited $3.3 billion offer for  Tenet Healthcare Corp . may
prompt rival suitors as it seeks to become the largest U.S.
hospital operator. Tenet’s shares rose 55 percent.  Community Health’s bid of $6 a share, including $5 a share
in cash and $1 per share in common stock, was rejected as “not
remotely fair value” by Dallas-based Tenet. The equity offer of
$3.3 billion would represent about a 40 percent premium over
Tenet’s $4.29  closing price  yesterday. Community Health also
would take on about $4 billion of  net debt , the Franklin,
Tennessee-based company said yesterday in a statement.  Community Health has been an aggressive buyer, making eight
 acquisitions  in the past two years. Mergers have increased in
the industry as hospital patient admissions slowed in the
struggling economy and U.S. regulations have prompted operators
to seek partnerships, said  Sheryl Skolnick , an analyst at CRT
Capital Group in Stamford, Connecticut.  “We are absolutely committed” to the Tenet deal,  Wayne Smith , Community Health’s chief executive officer, said today in
a conference call with analysts. “We have been accused of being
opportunistic, and we are. That’s what we do and we will
continue to do it.”  Tenet rose $2.36, or 55 percent, to $6.65 at 4 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite  trading . The price, higher than
Community Health’s bid, may indicate investors expect another
offer. Before today, Tenet had fallen 20 percent this year.  315 Deals  There have been 315 acquisitions in the U.S. hospital
industry in the past five years with an average purchase price
of $589 million and an average premium of 8 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Community Health, with 15
acquisitions, has made the most  purchases  of any company during
that time.  Community Health, the largest publicly traded U.S. hospital
company, gained $4.25, or 13 percent, to $35.89 in New York
trading, its biggest one-day percentage gain since April 2009.
Before today, the shares had  dropped  11 percent for the year.  Community Health’s bid may eventually top $7 a share, said
 Jason Gurda , a Leerink Swann & Co. analyst in New York, in a
note to clients today. At that price, the deal may add
“slightly” to Community Health’s  earnings  next year or even
reduce profit, depending on cost-savings and the interest rate
on new debt the acquirer would have to issue, he said.  Higher Offer  Community Health “would most likely be willing to raise
its offer” and Tenet shareholders frustrated by their current
share price “are likely to accept a deal,” Gurda said.  Tenet, which operates 50 hospitals in 12 states, had a
 market capitalization  of $2.1 billion as of the close of
trading. Community Health had a market value of $2.9 billion.  “It remains to be seen if Community is the only bidder
because Tenet is now in play,” Skolnick said yesterday in a
telephone interview.  Other possible acquirers include Vanguard Health Systems
Inc., a Nashville, Tennessee-based hospital operator. Medical
insurers  United HealthGroup Inc.  or  Humana Inc.  might want to
acquire hospitals to enhance their competitiveness under U.S.
health reform proposals, Skolnick said.  “Health plans have generally said they are not interested
in buying whole hospital companies,” Skolnick said. “At some
point in the future they might have to think about being more
like Kaiser and vertically integrated.” Kaiser Permanente, the
largest U.S. non-profit health management organization, operates
health plans, medical groups and hospitals.  Balance Sheet  Tenet had strengthened its balance sheet the past few
years, upgrading its hospitals and improving the quality of its
patient care while trimming costs, Skolnick said in Nov. 30
interview. The share price hasn’t reflected those improvements,
she said.  “A lot of the heavy lifting has been done,” she said.  Community Health may need to raise its bid to $7.25 to
$8.25 a share to get a deal completed, Skolnick wrote today in a
note to investors.  “We see the Community Health bid as wholly insufficient
and agree wholeheartedly with Tenet’s board’s rejection of the
offer,” Skolnick wrote.  Community Health’s offer is “fully priced” at $6 per
share, said CEO Smith. “If you look at what people have paying
for hospitals over the last couple years, it’s been a lot less
than this.”  Impact on Others  The offer may prompt deals among other hospital companies,
Gurda said.  Health Management Associates Inc.  of Naples,
Florida, climbed 39 cents, or 4.3 percent, to $9.53 in New York
trading, while Brentwood, Tennessee-based  LifePoint Hospitals
Inc.  rose $1.81, or 5 percent, to $37.40.  Community Health owns, operates or leases 126 hospitals in
29 states. It made the purchase offer to Tenet’s directors on
Nov. 12, the company said in its statement. After Tenet rejected
the bid on Dec. 6, Community Health’s Smith sent a follow-up
letter to  Trevor Fetter , Tenet’s chief executive, and the
company’s board.  “We were surprised and disappointed by your flat rejection
of the transaction,” Smith wrote in the letter. “We are
committed to completing this transaction and will consider all
alternatives necessary to do so.”  Largest Operator  The combined companies would have revenue of $21.9 billion,
according to Community Health. It would become the nation’s
largest hospital operator, surpassing closely held  HCA , which
was purchased four years ago in a $33 billion leveraged buyout
led by  KKR & Co.  and Bain Capital LLC.  Tenet said the offer undervalued its business and it had
little faith that Community Health could manage the deal.  “Community Health’s opportunistic proposal would transfer
the growth potential inherent in Tenet to Community Health
without adequately compensating Tenet shareholders,” Tenet said
yesterday in a statement. Tenet’s board “has serious concerns
about Community Health’s ability to integrate and operate a
business like Tenet.”  The proposal would create a company with more than $15
billion in debt, Tenet said in the statement. Community Health
had $567 million in  cash  and $10.3 billion in debt as of the end
of the third-quarter, according to Bloomberg data.  “Community Health’s leverage following your proposed
transaction would be higher than all but a handful of companies
in the Standard & Poor’s 500,” Tenet said in its statement.  Community Health’s biggest acquisition of the past five
years was its $6.37 billion purchase of Triad Healthcare Corp.
2007. The company has paid an average premium of 9.8 percent on
the 15 acquisitions during the period.  Credit Suisse  is Community Health’s financial adviser and
Kirkland & Ellis LLP is providing legal advice. Barclays Capital
is financial adviser to Tenet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Olmos  in San Francisco at 
 dolmos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 Rgale5@bloomberg.net  