-- Contrasting U.K. Home Price Indexes Keep Buyers Guessing
-- B y   T i m   B a r w e l l
-- 2010-12-09T10:34:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/competing-u-k-indexes-keep-homebuyers-guessing-in-wary-market.html
U.K.  home prices  are rising. Or
they’re falling. It depends whom you ask.  Property researcher  Hometrack Ltd . reported a 0.9 percent
monthly decline in October, the biggest since January 2009.
Mortgage lender Halifax said prices rose 1.8 percent, rebounding
from a 3.7 percent drop in September. Acadametrics Ltd. tracked
a 0.3 percent gain, pushing prices to the highest since June
2008.  Britons deciding whether to buy, sell or invest in
residential property are left to sift through at least seven
indexes that provide different results and regularly diverge on
the direction of prices. That adds to uncertainty in a market
where confidence is already  low  and keeps some buyers and
investors out, according to Christopher Down, chief executive
officer of  Hearthstone Investments Plc .  “It has been very difficult to define a residential
property benchmark because there are so many different indices
out there,” said Down, who plans to raise as much as 500
million pounds ($788 million) for a U.K. housing fund starting
next year. “The appetite to invest in the sector is
unquestionable, particularly with the retail investor.”  The seven indexes only agreed on the direction of the
market in five of the 22 months through October, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The last time was in January, when
all indicated a price rise.  Today’s Numbers  Halifax said today that U.K. house prices slipped 0.1
percent in November as demand weakened and the government
prepared to implement the biggest spending cuts since World War
II to reduce a record budget deficit.  Indexes covering at least three months give a more accurate
picture of the market, according to  Steve Morgan , chairman of
housebuilder Redrow Plc. Comparing longer periods helps “smooth
out the volatility currently experienced,” he said. Of the
seven most-used indexes, only those produced by Halifax and
Nationwide provide quarterly data.  Redrow, based in St. David’s Park, Wales, uses its own data
to see where prices are going. This shows that values have been
stable in the second half, Morgan said.  Britain’s  Statistics Authority  is reviewing the “coherence
and comparability” of the government’s two indexes and will
also assess public satisfaction with housing market statistics
in general, the agency said in August.  Government Review  “We’re looking at official measures and the extent to
which these meet the users’ needs,” said Jason Bradbury,
chairman of the review’s steering committee. “Where there are
gaps, we will be looking to see what can be done to better meet
that need.” The findings should be published within two months,
he said.  Though the government won’t be able to stop lenders and
data providers from publishing indexes, it could push for
greater emphasis on three-month figures, said  Fionnuala Earley ,
an economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  “There is confusion when the data is volatile, which can
happen if there are a low number of transactions or the market
is at a turning point, both of which could apply now,” she
said.  Down says Hearthstone’s fund will be in a similar format to
equity index trackers, which follow the movement of the broader
market, so he needs wide coverage that’s timely as well.  “The most appropriate dataset we’ve found is Acadametrics.
“For our purposes, we need as full coverage as possible and yet
we need it to be timely,” he said. It seems to have managed to
square the circle between timeliness and data. It’s a very
rigorous index.”  Partial Coverage  Acadametrics is a research company that combines housing
transaction data from the U.K. Land Registry and other price
measures to produce an estimate for the most recent month. The
number is then revised in following months as more complete data
becomes available. It doesn’t cover Scotland, which
Hearthstone’s Down wants to include in his portfolio.  The last report from London-based Acadametrics, on Nov. 12,
showed that home prices climbed 6.1 percent in October from a
year earlier. That was the biggest increase indicated by any of
the seven indexes. At the other end of the scale, Hometrack
recorded a 0.1 percent decline.  In the U.S., the S&P/Case-Shiller index is considered the
country’s standard home price gauge. It’s based on the average
price of completed transactions across 20 metropolitan areas and
published with a two-month lag. In Spain, buyers and sellers
rely mainly on data from the government and Idealista.com, the
country’s largest property website.  Fewer Properties  About 600,000 residential properties changed hands in the
U.K. in 2009, half the level of 2006, according to the  Land
Registry . About 69 percent of people in Britain own their homes.  The government’s Land Registry is the only source for the
actual price paid in residential property transactions in
England and Wales, including those made for cash. Indexes from
lenders Nationwide and Halifax are based on mortgages that they
offer.  Rightmove Plc , which operates the U.K.’s largest
residential property website, provides asking prices from a
sample of properties offered on the site. Some measures are
based on data from England and Wales only, while others look at
the whole U.K.  The different measures also produce contrasting house price
averages across the country. In November, Hometrack’s estimated
price was about 155,000 pounds, while Rightmove’s asking price
was close to 230,000 pounds.  Frustrated Homebuilders  Data from the Communities and Local Government department
includes  mortgages  from the Council of Mortgage Lenders and
excludes cash buyers, who account for 25 percent of all
transactions. The Land Registry data consists of properties sold
at least twice since it started in 1995, excluding about two-
thirds of U.K. property and all new homes.  U.K. homebuilders say they are frustrated with the range
and volatility of the indexes used because their shares often
move in the direction of an index on the day of a release. When
Halifax said home prices plunged by 3.7 percent in September,
the  Bloomberg EMEA Home Builders Index  dropped by 2.3 percent,
the most in a month.  “You can almost read the data and tell whatever story you
like,”  Taylor Wimpey Plc  CEO  Pete Redfern  said in an interview.
“They all look at different things, which can lead to quite a
distorting view.”  House price indexes are a poor measure to use when
investing in homebuilders because they don’t account for changes
to land values, which are more relevant to future earnings, said
 Gary Channon , chief investment officer at Phoenix Asset
Management Partners.  ‘So Much Noise’  “The huge number of U.K. house price indices creates so
much noise that the true picture rarely emerges,” Channon said
in an interview. “Unfortunately, they are produced by
organizations that release them with their spin.” Phoenix owns
5 percent of  Barratt Developments Plc , the country’s biggest
homebuilder by volume.  Halifax offers the longest uninterrupted monthly data set
of any U.K. housing index and usually leads rival Nationwide at
reporting turning points in the market, according to Jessica
Lord, a spokeswoman for parent company  Lloyds Banking Group Plc .
Both are based on valuations by their own surveyors.  “The mixed pattern of monthly rises and falls so far this
year is consistent with a slowing, but not necessarily falling,
market,” she said in an e-mail.  Rightmove lists more than 90 percent of the homes for sale
in the U.K. and takes the average of all listings excluding
outliers, according to spokesman Matt James.  “We are therefore very well-placed to give a good early
indicator of the direction the market might take,” he said.  Strategic Pricing  While Rightmove is very timely, “there is often a lot of
strategy with selling prices,” said Earley of RBS. “Sellers
never expect to get that price.”  Halifax and Nationwide now rely on less data than they used
three years ago because they’re offering fewer mortgages, Down
said. That makes the results more volatile. Approximately 144
billion pounds of mortgages were granted last year, compared
with 363 billion pounds in 2007, according to the Council of
Mortgage Lenders.  The Land Registry doesn’t distinguish between property
types or the number of rooms homes have, whereas the lenders
weight their indexes according to property type, to avoid one
kind of home dominating a certain month.  “There is a huge amount of data, and putting it all online
could be problematic, but in time it will happen,”  David Thorpe , the founder of  Acadametrics , said in an interview. “The
government review is necessary because we have a number of
indices delivered to a public that’s already confused. Without a
huge increase in the quality of the data, it’s an unsolvable
problem.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Barwell  in London on 
 tbarwell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman on   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 