-- `Last-Minute' Computer Trades Drive South Korea's Kospi to Three-Year High
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2010-12-09T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/computer-trades-drive-south-korea-s-kospi-to-three-year-high.html
Computer-driven stock purchases
helped drive South Korea’s benchmark Kospi index to a three-year
high yesterday, the  exchange  said, a month after program trades
caused the measure’s biggest slump since May.  The  Kospi  gained about 7 points in the last minutes of
trading in Seoul yesterday to close at 1,988.96, the highest
level since Nov. 9, 2007. The gauge ended the day 1.7 percent
higher, the largest climb since Aug. 30. Yesterday was an expiry
day for options and futures contracts, Korea Exchange Inc. said
in a  statement  on its website. Stock markets can be volatile on
expiration days because of a pickup in program trading.  “Unlike the previous expiry day, strong last-minute
program buying, apparently by foreign investors, drove the
markets up nicely,” said  Lee Jin Woo , a fund manager at KTB
Asset Management Co., which manages $9.9 billion in Seoul.  The Kospi slumped 48 points in the last minutes of trading
on Nov. 11, a drop that  Korea Exchange  attributed to program
selling. The gauge tumbled 2.7 percent that day, the most since
May 25. The bourse began an investigation with regulators that
included probes into about 1.6 trillion ($1.4 billion) of sell
orders made through Deutsche Bank AG.  Deutsche Bank  breached South Korea’s stock exchange rules
governing the disclosure of computer-driven trades by filing a
report one minute late on Nov. 11, the bourse said on Nov. 15.
The nation’s  Financial Supervisory Service  said earlier this
week it will send investigators to Deutsche Bank’s Hong Kong
offices as part of its ongoing probe into the share decline.  Michael West , a Hong Kong-based spokesman, declined to
comment.  Central Bank Rates  The market also rose yesterday after the Bank of Korea
decided to hold interest rates steady, according to the stock
exchange’s statement, and amid speculation tensions will ease on
the Korean peninsula. The Kospi fell 0.4 percent on Dec. 8 after
a government official in Seoul said North Korea may have fired
artillery shells into waters near the disputed western border
with South Korea.  North Korean leader  Kim Jong Il  met with Chinese State
Councilor  Dai Bingguo  in Pyongyang yesterday, where they
“reached consensus” on the Korean peninsula “after candid and
in-depth talks,” according to Xinhua News Agency.  Bank of Korea Governor  Kim Choong Soo  and the policy board
yesterday left the  seven-day repurchase rate  at 2.5 percent
after an appreciation in the nation’s currency moderated
economic growth.  Limited Options  The Kospi’s plunge on Nov. 11 prompted the Financial
Services Commission, the government’s policy-making body, to say
this week that it may limit the number of stock-option contracts
investors can own. The purpose of those measures are to prevent
an investor from having an “excessive” impact on markets by
holding lots of derivatives, the commission said. South Korea
currently only limits the amount of futures  contracts  investors
can own.  South Korea also plans to strengthen penalties for
violating rules related to computer-driven trades, the agency
said. It may also require investors owning derivatives above a
designated amount to report their holdings and any significant
changes to the nation’s financial regulators, the FSC said.  “Derivatives products with higher leverage are certainly
boosting market volatility,” said  Chu Moon Sung , a fund manager
at Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management Co. in Seoul, which
manages $27 billion. “As the government tries to step up its
monitoring, I think market players will show some sort of self-
restraint at least in the short term.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net 
 Seonjin Cha  in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 