-- Copper Rises to Record as Chinese Car Sales Speed Up, Start of ETF Nears
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a   a n d   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 2010-12-09T12:14:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/copper-gains-to-record-in-london-on-concern-fed-may-extend-asset-purchases.html
Copper rose to a record in London as
car sales sped up in China, the world’s biggest consumer, and
the introduction of an exchange-traded fund backed by the metal
drew closer.  Passenger-car sales to dealerships rose 29.3 percent from a
year earlier in November, the China Association of Automobile
Manufacturers said today. ETF Securities Ltd. said Dec. 7 funds
backed by copper, nickel and tin will start trading in London
tomorrow. Prices also climbed as copper inventories tracked by
the London Metal Exchange shrank further.  “It seems more than a coincidence that copper, nickel and
tin are doing well after the ETF Securities announcement,
outperforming zinc in particular,” said  David Thurtell , an
analyst at Citigroup Inc. in London. The Chinese car-sales
figures and the drop in stockpiles also helped prices, he said.  Copper for three-month delivery added as much as $76, or
0.8 percent, to $9,091 a metric ton on the LME and was at
$9,047.50 at noon local time. The metal is up 23 percent this
year. Copper for March delivery gained 0.7 percent to $4.131 a
pound on the Comex in New York after touching $4.1545, the
highest price since May 2008.  “As friendly as I am to copper, I would suggest some
caution ahead of Chinese imports data due for release tonight,”
Thurtell said. “Despite scrap shortages, refined imports in
November could easily show another significant fall as the
Chinese market reacts to high prices and an unfavorable
arbitrage.”  One-Year Low  Shipments of copper and products into China slid for a
second month to the lowest level in a year in October, figures
showed on Nov. 10.  China’s total vehicle sales rose 26.9 percent to 1.7
million units in November. A typical U.S.-built car contains
more than 50 pounds of copper, and an average luxury model has
about a mile of wiring made of the metal, according to the
Copper Development Association.  Expectations that interest rates may rise as soon as this
weekend in China intensified this week as the government brought
forward the release of November economic figures to Dec. 11.
Authorities are moving to limit inflation that reached a two-
year high in October.  ETF Securities plans to introduce other funds backed by
aluminum, lead and zinc next year. JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
BlackRock Inc. have also announced plans to start ETFs holding
industrial metals. Credit Suisse Group AG is seeking to list an
exchange-traded product backed by aluminum in London, according
to a person familiar with the draft prospectus.  Smaller Stockpiles  LME copper inventories have shrunk 30 percent this year, on
course for the first annual contraction since 2004, and are at
the lowest level since October 2009. Today they slipped to
349,450 tons.  “Fresh estimates suggest stockpiles in LME warehouses may
drop to an all time low of less than one week’s usage,”  John Meyer , an analyst at Fairfax IS, said in a report.  Immediate-delivery LME copper’s premium to three-month
metal yesterday rose 6.6 percent to $32.25 a ton. Prices moved
on Nov. 8 to a so-called backwardation, when nearby metal trades
above longer-term contracts, potentially signaling supply
concern.  Tin for three-month delivery on the LME was unchanged at
$25,600 a ton. Prices reached a record $27,500 on Nov. 9. The
metal has jumped 51 percent this year, leading advances on the
exchange, after production was disrupted in Indonesia and the
Democratic Republic of Congo.  Aluminum, Lead  “The tin market is already tightening further,”
Commerzbank AG said in a report today. “There is no end in
sight to the problems with Indonesia’s tin production.
Consequently, tin prices should remain well supported.”  Aluminum rose 0.3 percent to $2,381 a ton. The fee to
borrow metal for next-day delivery, the so-called tom-next
spread, rose to a premium of as much as $4.50 today, compared
with a closing discount of $5 yesterday. It was last at $2. An
increase in the fee, which reached a $9 premium yesterday,
usually indicates tightening supply.  BHP Billiton Ltd. workers in South Africa began a strike
for higher pay yesterday at the company’s largest aluminum
smelter. The company said today the strike is continuing and its
Wessels mine remains suspended with no production.  Nickel climbed 0.2 percent to $24,048 a ton, lead was
unchanged at $2,405 a ton and zinc fell 1.4 percent to $2,279.50
a ton.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Maria Kolesnikova  in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net ;
 Glenys Sim  in Singapore at   gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter@bloomberg.net . 