-- Oil Gains a Second Day After China Imports Rise, U.S. Jobless Claims Drop
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2010-12-10T13:13:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/crude-oil-trades-near-88-after-gaining-on-decline-in-u-s-jobless-claims.html
Oil rose for a second day in New
York on signs that Chinese demand will withstand measures to
slow the economy and that U.S. consumption is recovering.  Futures narrowed their weekly decline after China said
November crude  imports  surged and the International Energy
Agency raised its 2011 oil demand forecast for a third month. A
U.S. government report yesterday showed jobless claims dropped
more than forecast. China’s central bank said it will raise the
amount the nation’s lenders must hold as reserves from Dec. 20.  “Current prices have a lot to do with strong demand out of
China as well as cold weather in the U.S. and Europe,” said
 Thorbjoern Bak Jensen , an analyst at Global Risk Management in
Middelfart, Denmark. “However, both inventories and OPEC spare
capacity are still high, so I expect prices to retrace below
$88, maybe even to $86.30.”  The January contract gained as much as 63 cents to $89 a
barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange
and was at $88.66 at 1:11 p.m. London time. Brent crude for
January settlement rose as much as 58 cents, or 0.6 percent, to
$91.57 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London.  Crude trimmed its gains after China’s central bank said it
will raise the amount the nation’s lenders must hold as reserves
by 50 basis points. China imported 20.9 million metric tons last
month, or about 5.1 million barrels a day, compared with
October’s 16.4 million, according to preliminary data today from
the General Administration of Customs in Beijing.  Oil in New York rose to $90.76 a barrel on Dec. 7, the
highest level since October 2008. Futures, down 0.6 percent this
week, have gained 12 percent this year.  Refilling Tanks  Refiners in China, the world’s second-biggest crude user,
have increased fuel production to meet a shortfall in diesel
supplies. Diesel stockpiles shrank for seven straight months
through October and are now at about 6.2 million compared with
11.5 million in February, according to Xinhua News Agency data.  “It looks like refiners are starting to refill the storage
tanks after stock levels have come down,” said  Serene Lim , a
commodity strategist at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. in Singapore. “The market is cautious today with the
Chinese inflation numbers still due and OPEC still to meet.”  The International Energy Agency raised its 2011 global
crude oil demand forecast for a third month, citing consumption
gains in North America and China.  Crude use worldwide will average 88.8 million barrels a day
next year, about 260,000 barrels more than its previous
forecast, the Paris-based adviser said today in its monthly Oil
Market Report. Increasing demand could put pressure on OPEC to
boost supply early next year, the IEA said.  OPEC Action  Prices climbing to $100 may indicate “something wrong with
fundamentals” in the market and prompt the Organization of
Petroleum  Exporting Countries to take action, said  Abdalla El- Badri , the group’s secretary-general.  Crude prices are at “suitable levels,” OPEC’s El-Badri
said yesterday in Quito, Ecuador, where the organization will
meet Dec. 11 to review its output. Demand is growing fast in
China and India and moderately in members of the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development, he said.  Oil may decline next week amid speculation that China will
raise interest rates, a Bloomberg survey showed. Eighteen of 39
analysts, or 46 percent, forecast crude will fall through Dec.
17. Last week, analysts were split over the market’s direction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Grant Smith  in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  