-- Currency Trading Alternative to ICAP Is Said to Be Weighed by Global Banks
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2010-12-09T14:43:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/currency-trading-alternative-to-icap-is-said-to-be-weighed-by-global-banks.html
Banks dealing in foreign exchange are
discussing a currency-trading system that may become a
competitor to a platform run by ICAP Plc, according to three
people with knowledge of the talks.  The negotiations include the 10 biggest currency traders,
said one of the people, who asked not to be identified because
the discussions are confidential. ICAP, the world’s largest
broker of transactions among banks, operates the EBS system,
which handled daily transactions of $162.5 billion in November,
according to the London-based company’s website.  Currency trading worldwide amounts to $4 trillion a day,
according to the Bank for International Settlements. An
alternative system to EBS would take time to develop, and may
not “hurt” ICAP, said  Steve Keeling , an analyst at Singer
Capital Markets in London.  “Any consortium of banks that wants to put in a competing
platform poses a threat to anybody that has a market share in
that area” said Keeling. “But this type of competing platform
takes a lot of time. There is no guarantee they would get the
liquidity that clients want. In the short to medium term, ICAP’s
position is relatively strong on this matter.”  ICAP rose 1.6 percent to 530.5 pence at 1:55 p.m. in London
trading, more than the 0.5 percent gain by the benchmark FTSE
100 Index. Plans for a new currency-trading system were reported
yesterday by Dow Jones Newswires.  EBS Liquidity  “ICAP’s EBS platform is the core source of liquidity in
the professional global spot foreign-exchange market,” said
 Mike Sheard , a spokesman the company. “We are committed to
continuously engaging with our customer base to ensure
understanding of their requirements and to develop solutions
that satisfy their needs. The foreign-exchange markets have
always been and will continue to be very competitive.”  Talks among the banks are at an early stage, two of the
people said.  Deutsche Bank AG is the world’s biggest currency trader,
according to Euromoney Institutional Investor Plc. Rounding out
the top 10 are UBS AG, Barclays Plc, Citigroup Inc., Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc, JPMorgan Chase & Co., HSBC Holdings Plc,
Credit Suisse Group AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan
Stanley, the Euromoney rankings show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  