-- DBS Accused of Misrepresenting Lehman-Related Product in Singapore Lawsuit
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2010-12-09T05:27:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/dbs-accused-of-misrepresenting-lehman-related-product-in-singapore-lawsuit.html
DBS Bank Ltd.,  a unit of Southeast
Asia’s biggest lender, was sued by a client claiming fraudulent
and negligent misrepresentations that a $1.5 million  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. -related investment was “sound.”  Former DBS banker Desmond Lim Hong Nian had said principal
invested in the structured product was safe, according to a
Nov. 30 lawsuit filed with the Singapore High Court by
Australian Mark Carpenter.  He’s seeking to recover the $1.17 million he lost when
Lehman filed for bankruptcy protection in 2008, and claiming an
additional $280,000 from DBS and Lim for losses incurred after
the bank made five unauthorized transactions in currency-linked
investments, according to court filings.  DBS in February had its ban on the sale of structured notes
lifted by the Monetary Authority of Singapore after it improved
the internal procedures of its advisory services across all
investment products. The Singapore-based bank was one of 10
financial institutions banned from selling structured notes
following claims by investors that they were misled on products
tied to Lehman.  Jenny Lee , a Singapore-based spokeswoman at DBS, said the
bank will defend the lawsuit. Lim is no longer employed by the
bank, she added, declining to elaborate.  Carpenter’s lawyer  N. Sreenivasan  couldn’t be reached for
comment at his office.  DBS denied in court filings telling Carpenter that his
principal in the investments would be protected. Carpenter
indicated he was prepared to take high risks and was an
experienced investor who made his own decisions, the bank said.  Singapore, Hong Kong Clients  Carpenter also failed to inform the bank within seven days
of receiving his investment advice slips that there were
erroneous transactions, DBS said.  Investors in Singapore bought S$508 million ($388 million)
of structured products linked to Lehman which lost most or all
of their value when the lender filed for the biggest bankruptcy
in U.S. corporate history.  DBS last year reviewed 140 cases in Singapore where its
customers lost money on S$103 million of Lehman-linked
structured notes. The Singapore lender has also been sued by 204
investors who incurred S$17 million in losses on securities
linked to Lehman.  DBS in July agreed to repay HK$651 million ($84 million) to
Hong Kong clients it classified as having a low or medium
investment risk profile and who bought Lehman-linked notes.  The case is Mark Carpenter vs DBS Bank Ltd. S444/2010 in
the Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Tan  in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  