-- TDC Shares Priced at 51 Kroner Each in Offer; Shares Slide in Copenhagen
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2010-12-09T10:14:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/tdc-says-shares-priced-at-51-kroner-each-in-owners-offering.html
TDC A/S , Denmark’s largest telephone
operator, said shares being sold by its private-equity majority
owners were priced at 51 kroner apiece, valuing the company at
41.5 billion kroner ($7.4 billion) after a share buyback.  Apax Partners LLP, Blackstone Group LP, KKR & Co., Permira
Advisers LLP and Providence Equity Partners Inc. are recouping
part of the investment they made when they bought an 88 percent
stake in TDC in 2006 in a transaction worth about $15.3 billion,
including net debt. The companies had offered shares in a price
range of 47 kroner to 56 kroner.  The completion of the sale will cut the majority owners’
holdings to between 55 percent and 59 percent of the outstanding
TDC shares, Copenhagen-based  TDC  said in a statement. About 84
percent of the shares are being sold to institutional investors
and the remainder to Danish retail investors.  “It’s a fair pricing in the sense that most people looking
at the sector would come up with a relative valuation in the
middle of the range,” said  Sven Skold , a Stockholm-based
analyst at Swedbank. “The sector as a whole is a little too
cheap because price-earnings multiples are not far from seven-
year lows, interest rates are exceptionally low, and capex seems
to be maintained at relatively low levels.”  The companies will sell 210 million shares and possibly
31.5 million additional shares in an overallotment. Payment and
settlement are planned for Dec. 13.  TDC fell  as much as 4.3 percent and traded 3.8 percent
lower at 50.05 kroner as of 11:12 a.m. in Copenhagen trading.  Rapid Growth  The buyout firms are selling a stake as investors seek
dividend yields from European telecommunications stocks after
years of rapid growth and overseas acquisitions. TDC Chief
Executive Officer  Henrik Poulsen  has promised to return 80
percent to 85 percent of free cash flow to investors in
dividends. The Copenhagen-based company plans to pay a  dividend 
of 4.35 kroner a share in 2011.  “The company’s much smaller today than when the private
equity firms bought it,” Swedbank’s Skold said. “It’s sold a
lot of assets and given out significant dividends over the
years, so there are reasons for the lower market cap today. It’s
been a very good investment for them.”  TDC sold  its last remaining non-Nordic unit, Sunrise
Communications AG, to CVC Capital Partners for 3.3 billion Swiss
francs ($3.4 billion) in October. The company previously
divested Invitel Holdings A/S, previously Hungarian Telephone
and Cable Corp., to Mid Europa Partners in 2009. It sold a stake
in Polkomtel SA to Vodafone Group Plc and a group of Polish
companies in 2008.  The company paid regular and special cash  dividends  of 7.85
kroner in 2009 after adjusting for a stock split, Bloomberg data
show. It hasn’t paid a dividend this year.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , Morgan Stanley and SEB AB are
managing the share sale as global coordinators, while  Deutsche
Bank AG  and UBS AG are also acting as bookrunners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Diana ben-Aaron  in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at   vroot@bloomberg.net  