-- Dean Foods Down 53% as S&P's Worst After Milk Deals Turn Sour
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h   a n d   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2010-12-09T21:28:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/dean-foods-chief-engels-loses-59-as-s-p-s-worst-after-milk-takeovers-sour.html
Dean Foods Co.  Chief Executive
Officer  Gregg L. Engles  built the nation’s largest dairy
processor. Now he may have to start dismantling his creation.  Dean’s stock is off 53 percent this year, making it the
worst performer in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index . The Dallas-
based company’s earnings are getting squeezed by big-box stores
and supermarket chains looking for price concessions. At the
same time, Dean is having to contend with big jumps in prices of
commodities such as raw milk, butterfat, soybeans and sugar,
Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Dec. 13 edition.  Combined, these trends are crimping the company’s cash flow
and may make it difficult for Dean, which is carrying about $4
billion in  debt , to stick to the terms of its loan agreements,
says  Vicki Bryan , an analyst with Gimme Credit LLC in New York.
Dean’s ratio of long-term debt to equity stands at 260 percent,
the highest of any food or beverage company in the S&P 500.  “I expect them to opportunistically divest assets,” Bryan
says. “It’s going to be tough under market conditions to get an
optimal price.”  Dean spokeswoman Liliana Esposito declined to comment.  Dean’s  net income  has declined year-on-year for the last
four quarters straight. Earnings have come in short of analysts’
estimates twice in 2010. And the company has said that
conditions won’t improve in the first half of 2011.  Credit Facility  Dean  rose  94 cents, or 13 percent, to $8.39 at 4:15 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares gained the
most since Nov. 24, 2008, after Dean said in a filing it plans
to offer as much as $400 million of notes to repay existing debt
and it amended the company’s credit facility to give greater
flexibility under its debt covenants, said Eric Serotta, an
analyst at Wells Fargo Securities in New York.  A graduate of Yale Law School, Engles, 53, is described on
Dean’s  website  as “the primary architect” of the consolidation
of the U.S. dairy industry. It all started with a dairy in San
Juan, Puerto Rico, which Engles and a group of investors
purchased in 1993 and took public three years later.  In 2001, Engles  acquired  Dean, a company in Franklin Park,
Illinois, with roots in the evaporated-milk business. More
recent purchases include White Wave, a maker of Silk soymilk, in
2002; organic milk maker Horizon Organic in 2004; and, in 2009,
Alpro, which produces soy-based products in Europe.  Dean’s annual sales have soared, climbing from $150 million
in 1994 to $11 billion last year, according to a Securities and
Exchange Commission filing.  Pressure From Retailers  Credit Suisse Group AG analyst  Robert Moskow  says Dean’s
strategy of driving down costs to undercut smaller, less
efficient milk processors and force them to scale back capacity
hasn’t yielded results. At the same time, Dean is facing
pressure from retailers who are discounting milk to attract
penny-pinching consumers while demanding price breaks from
suppliers. Also, more shoppers are buying cheaper private label
milk products instead of Dean’s brands.  “Our industry is going through a wrenching ordeal,”
Engles said in a conference call on Nov. 9, after the company
reported a 51 percent drop in third-quarter net income.  To cut costs, Engles has closed five plants since 2009.
Still,  Michael Benoit , an analyst at Chicago’s Talon Asset
Management, says Dean is in a “downward spiral” and may not be
able to trim expenses fast enough to counter a steep rise in
commodity prices.  “We are passing on Dean because we think it’s structurally
impaired,” Benoit says.  Asset Sales  Engles has begun selling off some of the pieces of his
empire. Dean booked a $6.4 million after-tax gain from the sale
of Rachel’s Dairy, an organic yogurt maker based in the U.K., to
France’s Groupe Lactalis in August. Last month, General Mills
Inc. agreed to buy Dean’s Mountain High yogurt business for an
undisclosed price.  One business that would likely draw bids is WhiteWave-
Alpro. Earnings at the unit, which produces soy-based drinks,
continue to rise. In a Nov. 10 report, analysts at Sanford C.
Bernstein led by  Alexia Howard  in New York noted that a sale of
WhiteWave-Alpro could cut Dean’s debt nearly in half.  In the November call with analysts, Engles said that the
unit “is managed quite separately” and would therefore be easy
to hive off.  Some of Dean’s shareholders might be relieved to see a
buyer step forward amid concerns that the company’s fortunes may
not turn around. The stock surged more than 8 percent on Aug. 31
after the website Briefing.com reported “chatter” about a bid
from France’s Groupe Danone. Danone CEO  Franck Riboud  has since
told the press he’s not interested in getting into the milk
business.  “Until some European player or other conglomerate swoops
in, the fundamental picture remains bleak,” says  Alan Thompson ,
a derivatives trader in Greenwich, Connecticut, for the Timber
Hill LLC division of Interactive Brokers Group Inc., which owns
Dean shares.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shruti Date Singh  in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Boyle  in New York at 
 Mboyle20@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at   rajello@bloomberg.net . 