-- Dell’s Pursuit of Compellent Deal Would Help Fill Storage Need
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a   a n d   K a t i e   H o f f m a n n
-- 2010-12-09T23:09:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/dell-pursues-compellent-for-876-million-to-fill-void-in-storage-lineup.html
Dell Inc. , the third-largest
personal-computer maker, is pursuing  Compellent Technologies
Inc.  to fill a void in its lineup after losing a bidding war
over another storage company, 3Par Inc., to Hewlett-Packard Co.  The company announced today that it’s in talks to acquire
 Compellent  for $27.50 a share in cash, valuing the business at
about $876 million. The companies declined to comment further,
saying no agreement has been reached.  Dell is using  acquisitions  to expand its data-center
offerings, such as servers and storage, and lessen a dependency
on the PC market, where  profit margins  typically are narrower. A
deal would follow three storage deals in the computer industry
in recent months. HP bought 3Par in September, International
Business Machines Corp. purchased Netezza Corp. in November, and
EMC Corp. agreed to buy Isilon Systems Inc. the same month.  “After losing out on 3Par, Dell found its storage dance
partner in Compellent,” Greg Richardson, an analyst at
Technology Business Research Inc., said in an e-mail.  Compellent, based in Eden Prairie, Minnesota, develops the
hardware and software needed to create storage networks. The
company’s technology helps handle so-called cloud-computing
applications -- programs delivered from remote data centers.  If a deal is struck, Dell will acquire all of the
outstanding common stock of  Compellent  in cash, the companies
said today. The  stock  had almost doubled in the past two months
before today on speculation it will get bought, climbing to
$33.65 yesterday.  Stock Drops  After Dell announced the $27.50 price, the stock  fell 
$4.61, or 14 percent, to $29.04 on the New York Stock Exchange.
The shares remain above the offer price, signaling that
investors expect the bidding to go higher. Round Rock, Texas-
based  Dell  lost 3 cents to $13.65 on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  There probably won’t be another bidder for Compellent, said
 Abhey Lamba , an analyst at ISI Group in New York. Most of Dell’s
rivals, such as EMC,  HP  and IBM, have already acquired or built
similar capabilities, he said. Still, Compellent may be able to
negotiate a higher price, Lamba said.  Dell’s offer is 5.6 times Compellent’s revenue over the
past 12 months, excluding its $59.9 million in cash, according
to a Bloomberg analysis. That is higher than the median 1.2
times trailing revenue paid by acquirers in 763 deals in the
computer sector over the past five years.  Cloud Computing  The bid would be 138 times Compellent’s trailing 12 months’
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
compared with a median of 15.7 times Ebitda in computer-industry
deals the past five years, according to the analysis.  Dell  currently resells storage equipment from other
companies, such as EMC, as well as its own EqualLogic products.
The company got just 3.5 percent of its revenue from storage
products last quarter.  The explosion of cloud computing has spurred Dell and other
computer companies to add storage, software and service
capabilities, so that they can provide all the equipment for
data centers in one place.  “Dell would like to own some of the intellectual property
they feel will be important as people move to a cloud
infrastructure,” said Lamba, who rates the shares “hold.”  Dell said in June it expects its data-center business,
including servers, storage and networking gear, to generate $30
billion in sales by the end of fiscal 2014. That’s up from $17
billion in the year that ends in January.  Desktop and mobile PCs make up more than half of the
company’s sales. In that market, it’s fallen behind Palo Alto,
California-based HP and Taipei’s Acer Inc.  HP topped Dell in its bidding war for  3Par  by agreeing to
pay $2.35 billion, more than triple the business’ market value
before any bids became public.  Dell also is relying on research and development to expand
its data-center products. That spending will rise from a single-
digit percentage of sales to 10 percent or more, Chief Financial
Officer  Brian Gladden  said in an interview in November.  Dell had $13.4 billion  in cash  and short-term investments
at the end of its third quarter, which ended in October.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aaron Ricadela  in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net 
 Katie Hoffmann  in New York at 
 khoffmann4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  