-- Dell Is in Talks to Buy Compellent for $876 Million
-- B y   K a t i e   H o f f m a n n
-- 2010-12-09T15:02:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/dell-in-talks-to-buy-compellent-for-27-50-a-share-18-discount-to-close.html
Dell Inc. , the world’s third-largest
personal-computer maker, is in exclusive talks to buy  Compellent
Technologies Inc.  for about $876 million, a discount to the
data-storage maker’s current market value.  Dell would acquire all of the outstanding common stock of
 Compellent  for $27.50 apiece in cash, the companies said today
in a statement. That’s 18 percent less than yesterday’s  closing
price  for Compellent. The  stock  had almost doubled in the past
two months before today on speculation it will get bought.  Dell  is using  acquisitions  to expand its data-center
offerings, such as computers servers and storage, and lessen its
dependency on the desktop and notebook market, where  profit
margins  typically are lower. Compellent, based in Eden Prairie,
Minnesota, would help Dell add technology that helps customers
store, recover and manage large amounts of data.  “They have to beef up their data-center” business, said
 Abhey Lamba , an analyst at ISI Group, who rates Dell shares
“hold.” “PCs are a very low-margin, commoditized business.”  Compellent  fell  $4.40, or 13 percent, to $29.25 in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading at 9:57 a.m. Round Rock, Texas-
based Dell  added  5 cents to $13.73 on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  There probably won’t be another bidder for Compellent, said
New York-based Lamba, since most of Dell’s rivals, such as EMC
Corp.,  Hewlett-Packard Co.  and International Business Machines
Corp., have already acquired or built such assets. Compellent
may be able to negotiate a higher price, he said.  Dell and Compellent said there can be no assurances that an
acquisition will be completed.  Data Centers  Dell said in June it expects its data-center business --
servers, storage and networking gear -- to generate $30 billion
in sales by the end of fiscal 2014, from $17 billion in the year
that ends in January. Desktop and personal computers make up
more than half of the company’s sales.  In September, Dell lost a bidding war for 3Par Inc. to HP,
which bought the data-storage maker for $2.35 billion, more than
triple the company’s market value before any bids became public.  As Dell’s data-center business expands, the company plans
to increase research and development spending on those products
from a single-digit percentage of sales to 10 percent or more,
Chief Financial Officer  Brian Gladden  said in an interview in
November.  Dell had $13.4 billion  in cash  and short-term investments
at the end of its third quarter, which ended in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katie Hoffmann  in New York at 
 khoffmann4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  