-- Deutsche Bank Proposes Plan B to Help ECB Fight Debt Turmoil: Euro Credit
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2010-12-09T17:29:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/deutsche-bank-proposes-plan-b-to-help-ecb-fight-debt-turmoil-euro-credit.html
The European Central Bank should
draft commercial lenders as allies in its fight to stem the
euro-region financial crisis by giving them incentives to buy
bonds of debt-swamped governments, Deutsche Bank AG says.  In his proposed “Plan B,” London-based Deutsche Bank
economist  Gilles Moec  said the ECB would limit collateral for
one-year central bank loans to investment-grade sovereign paper
rated less than AAA, encouraging purchases of debt sold by
Spain, Italy, Portugal and Ireland. He also suggested a
“margin-call holiday,” freeing banks from providing more
collateral if the value of the swapped bonds falls.  “Investors still don’t know whether to buy from the
periphery,” Moec, a former Bank of France official, said in a
telephone interview. “But the rates the periphery are paying
should be quite tempting so it wouldn’t take much for investors
to start buying their debt.”  German 10-year bonds  rose for the first time in three days
today, as France backed Germany in refusing to add to the
European Union’s 440 billion-euro ($580 billion) rescue fund and
rejecting joint euro-area debt securities. Spanish bonds fell,
widening the extra yield investors demand to hold the securities
instead of German bunds.  Moec’s proposal would take the pressure off the Frankfurt-
based ECB to keep buying the bonds of Ireland, Portugal and
 Spain  to calm markets as European policy makers squabble over
how to contain spreading debt losses. The ECB  bought  the most
bonds since June last week, helping reverse debt-market
declines.  Collateral Plan  The ECB said last week it would continue to keep offering
banks as much cash as they want through the first quarter over
periods of up to three months at a fixed interest rate. Moec’s
plan, which he said could complement the current liquidity
programs, would reduce the  collateral  the ECB would be willing
to accept when lending for a year. Among the assets excluded
would be the government bonds of the six euro-area nations with
AAA ratings such as Finland and Germany.  In addition to helping reduce yields in the most-strained
markets, the plan would give governments breathing room to cut
their budget deficits, yet not let them off the hook for doing
so because the collateral would re-enter the market after a
year, Moec said.  “Governments would in effect be given 12 months to
demonstrate to the market their capacity to address their fiscal
issues, which reduces the moral hazard,” he said.  Curbing the ECB’s bond buying may prevent further divisions
among policy makers concerned that the central bank’s balance
sheet is growing too much, Moec said.  ECB Purchases  The ECB bought almost 2 billion euros of bonds last week as
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  pledged to fight “acute”
financial market tensions. Bond purchases total 69 billion euros
since the program began in May.  The central bank said today a “small” number of euro-region
banks are too reliant on its emergency liquidity as the
sovereign debt crisis jeopardizes financial stability in the
euro region.  One risk to the Deutsche Bank proposal is that the ECB will
have to renew the plan in a year’s time just as it has delayed
withdrawal of emergency liquidity measures, Moec said. Germany,
whose central bank chief  Axel Weber  has already questioned the
bond buying program, also may object to the ECB’s taking on
extra risk by not making margin calls, he said.  For its part,  Deutsche Bank’s  total net exposure to central
and local governments in Portugal, Ireland, Italy, Greece and
Spain totaled 10.1 billion euros at the end of March, according
to a July 27 presentation.  Deficit Discipline  To address potential weaknesses in his proposal, Moec
suggested the plan be combined with governments making long-term
commitments such as strengthening the rules for fiscal
discipline in the euro-area. The ECB also may first require
Portugal to accept a bailout before following through on his
idea, Moec said.  The central bank should indicate it will raise its
benchmark  interest rate  from a record low 1 percent in 2011 if
the overall 16-nation economy merits such a shift, he said.  “The anticipation of higher interest rates would appease
the authorities of the core countries,” Moec said.  While the idea requires coordination challenges, Moec said
the May rescue of Greece in which the ECB began buying bonds for
the first time shows overcoming those are “not unachievable in
times of extreme pressure.” Any new action may first require
clarity on how the euro-area will address any debt woes beyond
2013, he said.  “The  Governing Council  is unlikely to take the risk of
seeing the far-reaching measures it may be ready to take to
support the sovereign bond market undermined by further noise
coming from the currently confusing discussions” over what to
do after 2013, Moec said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Kennedy  in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  