-- Diesel Shortage Eases in Eastern China as Plants Boost Supply
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-09T03:53:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/diesel-shortage-eases-in-eastern-china-as-state-refiners-boost-supplies.html
A diesel supply shortage in eastern
China has eased after state refiners produced at full capacity
and ramped up imports, the chairman of the biggest oil-
processing plant in Jiangsu province said.  The shortfall has “basically” abated in the eastern
province, Zhang Dafu, chairman of  China Petroleum & Chemical
Corp. ’s Jinling refinery, said in a telephone interview
yesterday. There are no longer queues at gas stations in Nanjing,
the provincial capital, he said.  The nation’s largest refiners,  PetroChina Co.  and China
Petroleum, known as Sinopec, boosted oil processing to a record
last month and resumed imports of the fuel for trucks and power
generators as the nation battled a diesel shortage that depleted
at least 2,000 gas stations.  The Jinling plant produced 67,000 metric tons more diesel
than previously planned, Zhang said.  Sinopec and PetroChina have bought at least 480,000 tons of
diesel since November to boost domestic supply, the companies
said last month. Sinopec also halted diesel exports this month.  Demand has risen since October as farmers used more fuel
during the autumn harvest and factories turned to their own
diesel-powered generators after local authorities shut
electricity supplies to meet an energy-saving target.  The surge in diesel demand will subside by February,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. said in a note last week. China will become
a net importer in December before returning to be an exporter
next year, the bank said.  Wholesale prices of diesel fell 2 percent last week from a
week earlier as the shortfall eased, Bin Guan, an analyst at
China International Capital Corp., the nation’s largest
investment bank, said in a research report on Dec. 7.  The 13.5 million ton-a-year Jinling refinery will shut a 3
million ton-a-year crude distillation unit and a 1.2 million
ton-a-year hydrocracker from Dec. 20 to Jan. 14 for scheduled
maintenance, Zhang said.  -- Winnie Zhu . Editors:  Ryan Woo ,  Alexander Kwiatkowski .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Winnie Zhu in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7013 or
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net . 