-- Euro Weakens After Ireland's Credit Downgrade Fuels Regional Debt Concern
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2010-12-09T22:07:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/dollar-strengthens-versus-euro-and-pound-as-equities-pare-earlier-advance.html
The euro declined against a majority
of the world’s most-traded currencies after a downgrade to
Ireland’s credit rating added to concern Europe’s debt crisis
may spread.  The 16-nation currency fell against 11 of its 16 most-
traded counterparts as Fitch Ratings reduced Ireland’s rating by
three notches and the nation’s government planned a vote on an
85 billion-euro ($114 billion) aid package. The Dollar Index
 rose  for a fourth day after the number of workers filing first-
time claims for unemployment insurance payments fell more than
forecast. Brazil’s real declined after the nation’s central bank
left interest rates unchanged.  “Political uncertainty in Ireland, it’s doing nothing to
alleviate those concerns about sovereign debt in the euro zone
and that is likely to keep pressure on the euro,” said  Joe Manimbo , a market analyst in Washington at Travelex Global
Business Payments, a currency-exchange network. The jobless
claims data “boosted optimism that perhaps the recovery is in
better shape than nonfarm payrolls numbers might have
suggested.”  The euro weakened 0.2 percent to $1.3239 at 5 p.m. in New
York, compared with $1.3262 yesterday. The 16-nation currency is
down 7.3 percent against the dollar since Nov. 4 when it touched
$1.4282. The euro fell 0.5 percent to 110.88 yen from 111.45.  The  Dollar Index,  which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners including the
euro, yen and pound, rose 0.1 percent to 80.052.  Irish Update  Fitch cut Ireland’s credit rating to BBB+ from A+, three
steps above non-investment grade, citing the mounting cost to
rescue the nation’s banking system.  “The downgrade reflects the additional fiscal costs of
restructuring and supporting the banking system,” Fitch said in
the statement. “Ireland’s sovereign credit profile is no longer
consistent with a high investment grade rating.”  The nation’s Fianna Fail, the main party in the coalition
government, will put Ireland’s 85 billion-euro aid package from
the European Union and International Monetary Fund to a
parliamentary vote Dec. 15, Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  said
today in an e-mailed statement.  Applications for U.S.  jobless benefits  decreased to
421,000, from a revised 438,000 the prior week, Labor Department
figures showed. Economists forecast claims would fall to
425,000, according to the median of 50 projections in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Labor Gains  “Better labor data certainly gives the bulls more
ammunition that the economic recovery is starting to pick up and
that should be structurally positive for the dollar,” said
 Boris Schlossberg , director of research at online currency
trader GFT Forex in New York.  Australia’s dollar gained 0.4 percent to 98.37 U.S. cents
from 97.96 cents. The so-called Aussie advanced to 82.39 yen
from 82.33 yen.  The number of people  employed  in Australia gained 54,600
last month from October, the statistics bureau said in Sydney.
That compares with the median forecast for a 20,000 increase in
a Bloomberg News survey of economists. The jobless rate fell to
5.2 percent from 5.4 percent a month earlier.  “This is significant data and it supports the Australian
dollar,” said  Robert Rennie , currency-research head in Sydney
at Westpac Banking Corp. “The market is more or less fully
priced for a hike by September next year, today’s data suggests
that you probably want to start bringing that forward.”  Yearly Pattern  The dollar has fallen 1 percent this year in a measure of
the currencies of 10 developed nations, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The euro has dropped 9.3
percent. The yen is up 11.2 percent.  France backed Germany in refusing to add to the European
Union’s 440 billion-euro rescue fund and rejecting joint euro-
area bonds, deepening bloc-wide divisions before next week’s
summit of EU leaders.  Proposals aired by Italy and Luxembourg for euro-area bonds
raise issues of moral hazard as well as how to share costs and
gains, a French government official said in Paris. The fund is
adequate to deal with any eventual demands made on it, the
official told reporters on condition of anonymity.  “There’s still a lot of uncertainty about what’s going to
happen in Europe,” said  Mark McCormick , a currency strategist
at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York.  Italy’s Reserves  The Italian Treasury will begin 2011 with more than 30
billion euros in reserves to provide a cushion amid debt-market
volatility, said  Maria Cannata , the Finance Ministry’s director
of public debt.  “At the beginning of 2010 it was over 30 billion and at
the end of this year it will be probably higher, for sure not
less,” Cannata said in an interview today in Rome. “This will
allow us to be very comfortable at the beginning of 2011, when
there are fewer redemptions than in 2010.”  The Brazilian real was the worst performer among the 16
major currencies, losing 1.2 percent versus the dollar. Brazil’s
central bank met yesterday, leaving its benchmark interest rate
unchanged at 10.75 percent.  The eight-member board said in a statement they faced a
“less favorable scenario” than in their last meeting, though
they needed “more time” to gauge the economic effect of added
reserve requirements on banks to curb the growth of credit.  “The market has been pretty confident that given the very
large upsurge in inflation expectations, we would see a rate
hike in January,” said  Enrique Alvarez , head of Latin America
fixed-income research at IDEAglobal in New York. “The language
employed in describing the current situation and the risks
points more toward the need to digest the most recent rate
measure.”  The real dropped to 1.7103 per dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  