-- Drummond Said to Mull Sale to Private-Equity Firms
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y ,   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 2010-12-09T22:20:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/drummond-said-to-weigh-selling-colombia-coal-mining-stake-to-buyout-firms.html
Drummond Co. is considering selling a
minority stake in its Colombian coal mining operations as an
alternative to selling the whole unit to a mining company,
according to three people with knowledge of the matter.  Closely held Drummond has held preliminary talks with
private-equity firms First Reserve Corp. and Riverstone Holdings
LLC about a stake sale, while it continues to weigh a deal for
the entire Colombian business, said the people, who declined to
be identified because the talks are private. The Colombian unit
may be worth more than $6 billion, the people said. Drummond may
make a decision in the next few weeks, according to one person.  Swiss mining company  Xstrata Plc  and Glencore International
AG are both interested in acquiring the Colombian assets, two
people said. Brazil’s Vale SA had also shown interest and is no
longer involved in the process, according to the people.  Drummond, based in Birmingham, Alabama, and controlled by
the family of the same name, said in July it may take on a
partner to improve access to capital as it seeks to expand
output and port capacity. It hired  Bank of America Corp . to
evaluate possible partners for projects including an eight-fold
expansion to annual capacity of its El Descanso mine to 25
million metric tons within three years, it said at the time.  Spokesmen for Drummond, First Reserve and Riverstone
declined to comment. Xstrata, Glencore and Vale also declined to
comment.  Xstrata, Glencore  Xstrata, the world’s largest exporter of coal used by power
stations, owns a third of the Cerrejon mine on Colombia’s
northern coast alongside Melbourne-based BHP Billiton Ltd. and  Anglo American Plc . The mine this year began shipping coal
10,000 miles to  China  as demand in  Asia  jumped.  Xstrata in March had to sell another Colombian coal unit,
Prodeco, back to its major shareholder Glencore after the
world’s largest commodities trader exercised an option to
repurchase the unit for $2.25 billion, plus profits accrued and
cash invested by Xstrata in the year it owned the asset.  First Reserve of the U.S. was among investors who bought
$2.2 billion in Glencore convertible bonds that will convert
into equity upon an initial public offering or “other pre-
determined qualifying events.” New York-based Riverstone, which
manages $17 billion in energy and power investments, has
committed more than $11.5 billion to 59 investments in  North
America , Latin America,  Europe  and Asia, Bloomberg data show.  Drummond’s Colombian operations include an open-pit mine
near La Loma, a deep-water port on the Caribbean Sea near Santa
Marta and coal transportation and handling facilities, according
to the company’s  website . Drummond acquired the mining rights to
La Loma in northern Colombia in the 1980s and production has
increased from 1 million metric tons in 1995 to 21.7 million
tons last year, according to the website.  Colombia is South America’s largest producer of coal and
the world’s fourth-largest coal exporter from mines, according
to the U.S. Energy Information Administration. China overtook
the U.S. as the world’s biggest energy user last year, according
to the  International Energy Agency .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brett Foley in  London  at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in  New York  at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeff St.Onge at   jstonge@bloomberg.net ;  Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 