-- Dubai Sukuk Rally on S&P Review, Qatar Cup Bid: Islamic Finance
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i   a n d   C a m i l l a   H a l l
-- 2010-12-12T06:05:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/dubai-sukuk-rally-on-s-p-review-qatar-cup-bid-islamic-finance.html
Dubai’s Islamic bonds led a rebound
in Persian Gulf sukuk last week, ending the worst stretch of
losses in 10 months, as Standard & Poor’s raised its outlook on
 DP World Ltd . and Qatar won the right to host the World Cup.  Average yields on Shariah-compliant bonds from the Gulf
Cooperation Council fell 13 basis points, or 0.13 percentage
point, to 5.71 percent on Dec. 10, according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ
Dubai GCC Dollar Sukuk Index . The yield on DP World’s 6.25
percent note maturing in July 2017 dropped 19 basis points last
week to 6.96 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Yields on sukuk sold by Indonesia and Malaysia rose, tracking
U.S. Treasuries.  S&P revised the ratings outlook on the world’s fourth-
biggest port operator to “stable” from “negative” on Dec. 2,
citing improved financial results and the debt restructuring at
its parent, Dubai World. The prospect Qatar’s successful bid
will attract international investment and a rally in oil prices
bode well for economic growth in the region, according to
Manama-based Bahrain Islamic Bank.  “There is a general pickup in regional risk appetite,”
 Hussain Albanna , head of fixed-income trading at Bahrain
Islamic, said in an interview Dec. 9. “There’s optimism Qatar’s
win will create a construction boom and spill over to the Gulf.
I still believe there is a lot of value in regional sukuk.”  ‘Risk Factors’  Investors also sought relatively higher yields as President
Barack Obama’s extension of U.S. tax cuts increased appetite for
riskier assets.  The yield on the Dubai Department of Finance’s 6.396
percent Islamic bonds due in November 2014 dropped 16 basis
points last week to 6.61 percent, the first decline in five
weeks, Bloomberg data show.  “There’s international buying interest for Dubai names,”
 Louis Najem , a fixed-income sales trader at Rasmala Investment
Bank in Dubai, said in an interview Dec. 9. “The idea is that
there’s more bang for your buck when you consider the relevant
risk factors.”  More money may flow into the Persian Gulf after Qatar won
the bid to host soccer’s World Cup in 2022 and as the Malaysian
ringgit’s retreat from a 13-year high signals funds may exit the
Southeast Asian nation for the time being, according to OSK-UOB
Unit Trust Management Bhd.  ‘Hot Money’  “This is hot money; once they made money on the bonds and
made money from the currency, out they go,”  Mohd Noor Hj A Rahman , head of the Islamic fund management unit at OSK-UOB Unit
Trust, said in an interview from Kuala Lumpur Dec. 9. “The Gulf
market is attractive after Qatar won the rights for the World
Cup.”  State-owned Dubai World reached an accord in September with
most of its creditors to restructure $24.9 billion of debt.
Sales of Shariah-compliant bonds, which pay returns based on
assets to comply with Islam’s ban on interest, dropped this year
as debt restructuring in the Middle East crimped demand.  Global issuance fell 27 percent to $14.5 billion in 2010
from a year earlier, compared with a record $31 billion sold in
2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Offerings from
the six-nation GCC dropped 34 percent to $4.4 billion.  Indonesia, Malaysia Drop  The  difference  between the average yield for sukuk and the
London interbank offered rate narrowed 32 basis points last week
to 315, according to the HSBC/NASDAQ Sukuk Index. In the GCC,
which includes Qatar, the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait, the
gap shrank 32 basis points to 389.  Islamic notes  returned  11.9 percent this year, according to
the HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index. Bonds in developing
markets gained 13 percent, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global
Diversified Index shows.  The yield on Malaysia’s 3.928 percent Islamic note due June
2015 rose 22 basis points last week to 3.14 percent, according
to prices provided by Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. The rate
on Indonesia’s 8.8 percent bond maturing April 2014 climbed 18
basis points to 3 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Dubai’s government
sukuk rather than Malaysia’s narrowed 36 basis points to 345
last week, the least in two months, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The difference with DP World’s debt shrank 39 basis points
to 379 and touched the lowest since the Malaysian sukuk was sold
at the start of June.  ‘Superior’ Ratings  Malaysia is rated A- by S&P, its fourth-lowest investment
grade, while Indonesia and DP World both have BB ratings, two
levels below investment grade. Dubai’s Department of Finance
isn’t rated by either S&P or Moody’s Investors Service.  “Malaysia and Indonesia are considered much superior
credits and hence their yields are closely related to U.S.
Treasuries,”  Usman Ahmed , a senior fund manager at Emirates NBD
Asset Management, which oversees $300 million in bonds at the
unit of the U.A.E’s biggest lender, said in an e-mailed reply to
questions Dec. 9.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Soraya Permatasari  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net ;
 Camilla Hall  in Dubai at 
 chall24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  