-- Constancio Urges EU Bailout Fund `Flexibility' as ECB Pressures Leaders
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w ,   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s   a n d   P h i l i p p   E n c z
-- 2010-12-10T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/ecb-says-some-banks-too-reliant-on-its-emergency-funds-as-debt-risks-mount.html
European Central Bank Vice President
 Vitor Constancio  signaled European governments should be ready
to increase the size and flexibility of their bailout fund as
the ECB urges leaders to do more to fight the fiscal crisis.  Asked whether the fund could be used to buy government
bonds, Constancio said in an interview that “more flexibility
in the euro-zone resources would be helpful.” Constancio, who
spoke to Bloomberg Television late yesterday, declined to
speculate whether the rest of the ECB Governing Council would
support such a move.  ECB officials are putting pressure on governments to step
up their response to the market turmoil that last month forced
Ireland to seek a bailout. While the ECB has bought government
bonds to help stabilize markets, the policy has been criticized
by Germany’s  Axel Weber  who says it threatens the ECB’s
independence. Weber said last month that governments could
increase the size of their rescue fund and Constancio said that
such a move may be “helpful.”  Constancio, the ECB’s top official after President  Jean- Claude Trichet , made the remarks after presenting the semi-
annual  Financial Stability Report . The central bank said a
“small” number of banks depend too much on its emergency
liquidity funds and the “overall economic and financial system
is still fraught with risks.”  Officials are debating their next step after Ireland’s
rescue failed to stamp out fears of contagion spreading through
euro region bond markets. Attention is turning to the bailout
pool set up in May after the Greek crisis threatened to destroy
the euro. European Union governments have pledged 440 billion
euros ($582 billion) to a European Financial Stability Fund.  ECB Pressure  While using the EFSF could take some pressure off the ECB,
the move could be fraught with legal issues and the funds would
need to be raised before they could be spent, says  Carsten Brzeski  at ING Groep NV.  Constancio’s comments “show clearly that the ECB doesn’t
want to be the sole savior of the euro region,” said Brzeski,
senior economist at ING Groep in Brussels. Still, “at the
moment, the EFSF couldn’t do it because it doesn’t have any
money. Even if governments decide to put in cash it will be
tricky legally because of the no-bailout principle.”  The Maastricht Treaty says governments can’t directly take
on the debt of other nations.  Investor concern about excessive deficits in some euro-area
countries this year triggered a bond-market rout that forced
 Ireland  and  Greece  to seek international bailouts to refinance
their debt. That’s hampering some banks’ access to funding on
financial markets, forcing them to rely increasingly on the ECB.  Too Reliant?  “A small number of institutions” are “excessively
reliant on central bank liquidity” and account for “a
substantial share of the overall refinancing volumes,” the ECB
said yesterday in its report. “The main source of concern stems
from the interplay between sovereign debt problems and
vulnerabilities in segments of the euro-area banking sector.”  The central bank didn’t provide new estimates on the losses
facing banks in coming years and didn’t identify the
institutions that it views as being too dependent on its funds.  The ECB also urged government to take “swift and decisive
steps” to defuse the risks created by a “limited” number of
financial institutions.  “Action is needed by the responsible authorities in the
form of restructuring, de-risking and, where necessary,
downsizing of the balance sheets of such firms,” the ECB said.  Euro-region governments’ funding needs “will remain
significant and there is a risk of increasing competition for
funding,” the ECB said in its report. “Any additional requests
to provide support to ailing banks may further exacerbate the
risk of adverse feedback between the financial sector and public
finances.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jana Randow  in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
 Christian Vits  in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  