-- Bureaucrats Score Big at Citigroup, General Motors: David Pauly
-- B y   D a v i d   P a u l y
-- 2010-12-09T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/meddlers-score-big-at-citigroup-general-motors-commentary-by-david-pauly.html
Turns out the meddlesome bureaucrats
whom bailed-out bankers and carmakers complained about so much
were pretty good managers.  Intrusive U.S. officials this week sold the last of the
government’s common shares in  Citigroup Inc.  -- and now show a
profit of about $12 billion from the 2008 rescue of the nation’s
third-largest bank in terms of assets. Last month, against the
odds, these same irksome folks pulled off an almost perfect
initial public offering of  General Motors Co. , recovering about
$13.5 billion for taxpayers.  The government’s remaining 2.4 billion Citigroup shares
were sold for $10.5 billion. The price was $4.35 a share, 10
cents below the market price. The discount proved wise. The
bank’s stock rose after the sale, easing concern the trade --
totaling 8.3 percent of the bank’s shares -- would depress the
stock price.  In the end, the U.S. Treasury had sold all of its 7.7
billion Citigroup shares at an average price of $4.14, making
about 89 cents a share on the transactions. The total profit on
the shares came to $6.85 billion. The U.S. has also received
preferred stock dividends and other money from the bank.  Taxpayers stand to make more from their Citigroup
investment. The government still owns warrants to buy 465
million of the bank’s shares and $800 million of preferred
securities.  Pandit’s Response  Citigroup Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit , who has
been working for $1 a year during the crisis, did have the grace
to say he was “thankful” for the government’s support.  Washington-based bureaucrats handled the GM deal adroitly
from the outset though the IPO market was unpromising. GM
executives and their government overseers hoped the IPO would
raise several billion dollars even though no other public
offering this year raised even $1 billion, according to
Bloomberg data. In the same week that GM had its stock sale,
 Harrah’s Entertainment Inc.  canceled its IPO.  Government officials forced underwriters to cut their fees
to less than 25 cents a share. By contrast, the underwriting
costs in the IPO of Booz Allen Hamilton Holding Corp., the
consulting firm, was a bit more than $1 a share.  Then the folks from Government Motors boosted GM’s common
price offering to $33 a share, after earlier estimating about
$29.  Flippers Squelched  That $33 price was a boon to the taxpayers. It meant they
got most of the money rather than speculators who might have
benefited from a big gain after the IPO.  The  stock  rose to $35.99 during the first day of trading
last month and closed yesterday at $34.45.  Taking GM public eventually brought in a total of $23.1
billion. The Canadian government and the UAW Retirees Medical
Benefits Trust also sold common shares and General Motors itself
sold preferred stock.  Not bad for government work. Maybe if these companies had
hired some meddlers like these a few years back, disaster might
have been averted.  ( David Pauly  is a columnist for Bloomberg News. Opinions
expressed are his.)  To contact the writer of this column: David Pauly in
Normandy Beach, New Jersey 
 dpauly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  