-- Hedge Funds, Institutions to Increase Commodity Investments, Barclays Says
-- B y   Y i   T i a n   a n d   A s j y l y n   L o d e r
-- 2010-12-09T18:59:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/hedge-funds-institutions-to-increase-commodity-investments-barclays-says.html
Hedge funds and institutional
investors will put more money into  commodities  next year on bets
that a recovery in the global economy will boost demand for
metals, grains and energy, according to a Barclays Capital
survey.  About 76 percent of the respondents surveyed at a Barclays
conference yesterday in New York predicted a bigger inflow into
direct commodity investments than in 2010. New investments this
year were $50 billion, the London-based bank said. Copper will
probably have the biggest gain next year, followed by grains and
crude oil, according to the survey.  “What we are seeing now is a pretty healthy, robust
recovery developing in the U.S. and other parts of the world,”
 Kevin Norrish , a managing director at Barclays, said today at a
press conference. “A combination of better financial-market
confidence and reasonably good economic growth has set a
favorable platform” for commodities, he said.  Fifty-two percent of the respondents said they increased
their direct commodity investments in the past 12 months, while
21 percent said they held the amount constant.  Ninety-one percent of the respondents said they will
initiate, maintain or increase commodity investments over the
next three years, Barclays said.  More than 300 investors were surveyed, Barclays said. Forty
percent were hedge-fund managers. Institutional investors, such
as pension funds and endowments, accounted for 40 percent, and
the rest were retail investors, Barclays said.  Sugar, diesel, steel and natural gas were least favored,
the survey showed.  For Related News and Information:
Top energy stories: NRG
Top commodity stories: CMD
Top agriculture stories: AGR
Top metal and mining stories: METT  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yi Tian  in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net ;
 Asjylyn Loder  in New York at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 