-- Hedge Funds Return 0.6% in November, Beating Stocks as Japan Managers Lead
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i
-- 2010-12-09T00:57:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/hedge-funds-return-0-6-in-november-beating-stocks-as-japan-managers-lead.html
Hedge funds rose 0.6 percent in
November, led by Japanese managers, and outperformed global
equity markets that fell during the month,  Eurekahedge Pte  said.  Hedge funds posted positive returns for the fifth
consecutive month, with the Eurekahedge Hedge Fund Index, which
tracks more than 2,500 funds worldwide, increasing 7.9 percent
in the first 11 months, the Singapore-based data provider said
in an e-mailed  report . About $5 billion went into the industry
last month, Eurekahedge said, based on data from 32 percent of
funds that have so far reported their November performances.  Managers who invest in Japan and those employing equity-
related strategies led the month’s gains, helped by an increase
in Japanese stocks, the preliminary report showed. The MSCI
World Index  declined  2.4 percent in November.  The  measure  tracking Japan-focused funds gained 2.4 percent,
the best performer among seven regional indexes, as the
benchmark Topix index climbed 6.2 percent during the month. The
Eurekahedge Eastern Europe & Russia Hedge Fund Index followed,
rising 1.7 percent, while the index tracking North American
funds added 1 percent, it said.  Among the seven regional indexes, only the Eurekahedge
Emerging Markets Hedge Fund Index declined, the report said.  By strategy, event-driven funds, which invest in companies
undergoing transactions such as mergers or spinoffs, were the
top performers, returning 1.4 percent, helped by increased
corporate activity this year, Eurekahedge said. By contrast, the
index tracking fixed-income hedge funds declined 0.8 percent,
the worst performer.  The research firm plans to release a full report later this
month.  Hedge funds are mostly private pools of capital whose
managers participate substantially in the profits from their
speculation on whether the price of assets will rise or fall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tomoko Yamazaki  in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  