-- Lending to U.S. Small Businesses Declines as Firms Repair Balance Sheets
-- B y   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n
-- 2010-12-09T20:02:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/lending-to-u-s-small-businesses-declines-as-firms-repair-balance-sheets.html
Lending to U.S. small businesses fell
in the third quarter, showing the companies that account for
more than half of total job creation are still struggling to
emerge from the recession.  Net  borrowing  by non-financial non-corporate businesses
shrank by $162.7 billion at an annual rate from July through
September, the seventh consecutive quarterly decrease, according
to the Federal Reserve’s Flow of Funds report released today in
Washington. Still, it was the smallest drop of the contraction
in lending that began in the first three months of 2009.  Small companies are “still hurting and working toward
healing and not borrowing,” said  Julia Coronado , chief
economist for North America at BNP Paribas in New York, who
worked on the report as a Fed economist. “They’re paying down
bank loans, they’re paying down mortgages.”  Sales expectations at small businesses turned positive for
the first time in five months in October, according to a survey
last month by the National Federation of Independent Business,
indicating firms may begin expanding in coming months. At the
same time, the value of their assets has fallen, making it
harder to qualify for loans, Coronado said.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has said these companies
account for 60 percent of job creation, meaning bigger payroll
gains a lower unemployment hinge on their willingness and
ability to spend.  Construction Companies  Non-financial, non-corporate businesses are firms that are
not publicly traded. While they can include large companies,
many are small businesses, real-estate investment concerns and
construction firms, said Coronado.  Larger firms, meanwhile, are borrowing more from banks to
finance investments in new equipment. Corporate borrowing rose
by $328.5 billion at an annual pace in the third quarter. While
companies had a record $1.93 trillion in  cash and other liquid
assets , they spent more on plants and equipment, bringing the
so-called financing gap to $127.9 billion, the most in at least
two years.  “There’s clearly a surge in excess cash flow for the
business sector so companies can pay off debt, that’s more true
of big companies than small,” said  Jim O’Sullivan , global chief
economist at MF Global Ltd. in New York.  The Fed’s senior loan officer survey for October showed
12.3 percent of large and mid-market firms said lending
standards had eased somewhat, the same as in July and up from
10.7 percent in April, according to a report released Nov. 8.
Eleven percent of small firms said standards eased, compared
with 14.5 percent in July and 1.9 percent in April.  Obama Focus  The Obama administration earlier this year singled out
small businesses as a key to faster economic growth. In
September, President  Barack Obama  signed legislation that
included $56 billion worth of tax cuts over 12 months and a $30
billion program to boost lending. That was in addition to
provisions in the general stimulus plan that funded increased
limits on loan guarantees offered by the Small Business
Administration.  Banks including  Bank of America Corp.  and Citigroup Inc.
have said they’re increasing their focus on small business
lending.  Citigroup  said Nov. 15 it planned to hire 200 bankers
by the end of 2011 to court businesses with less than $20
million of annual sales.  Even so, with consumers still focusing on repairing their
balance sheets, it will take a while for small companies to want
to increase borrowing, Coronado said.  “There’s not a strong desire to borrow aggressively
because activity is still relatively modest,” she said.  To contact the report on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington at 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  