-- Met Museum Sued Over Cezanne Painting Stolen by Bolsheviks From Collector
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2010-12-09T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/met-museum-sued-over-cezanne-taken-by-bolsheviks-from-collector.html
A Parisian engineer is suing New
York’s Metropolitan Museum of Art to recover a  Paul Cezanne 
painting that he says the Bolsheviks stole from his great-
grandfather during the Russian Revolution. The suit was filed
Tuesday in U.S District Court.  The painting is valued at $50 million to $70 million, said
Washington lawyer Allan Gerson, who represents the plaintiff,
Pierre Konowaloff. A New York dealer in Impressionist art, who
didn’t want to be identified, said that in today’s market, it
could sell for as much as $100 million.  “Madame Cezanne in the Conservatory,” painted in 1891,
was a 1960 bequest of Stephen C. Clark, an heir to the Singer
sewing machine fortune, according to the museum’s  website . In
his complaint, Konowaloff claims that Clark bought the dour
portrait of the artist’s wife in May 1933 “in violation of
Russian law and U.S. policy” because it was months before the
U.S. diplomatically recognized Soviet Russia.  The Met said in a statement that it has been open about the
provenance and will fight the suit.  “The Museum firmly believes it has good title to the
painting and that this lawsuit is totally without merit,” the
Met said.  Collection Seized  Konowaloff’s great-grandfather was Ivan Morozov, a Russian
textile merchant who collected modern art and bought the Cezanne
in 1911, according to the suit. Morozov’s collection was seized
on  Lenin’s  orders in 1918 and Morozov’s home was converted into
a state museum.  Clark “employed a Soviet laundering operation” to get the
painting and directed the New York gallery  Knoedler  to secretly
buy it for him, according to the complaint.  Frank Del Deo, the gallery’s current president, didn’t
return a call for comment.  Konowaloff claims he became the official heir to the
Morozov collection in 2002, when his father died. He eventually
learned that Clark bought the artwork and bequeathed it to the
museum. He demanded its return, to no avail.  Last year, Yale University sued Konowaloff to “quiet its
good title” to  Vincent van Gogh’s  “The Night Cafe,” it said
in its suit. Like the Cezanne, the Van Gogh was bequeathed by
Clark, according to the suit.  Yale said in its pending complaint that Konowaloff’s
argument implies that “American courts should try to undo the
entire program of property reform undertaken by the Russian
government in the early part of the 20th century, invalidating
the transfers of title of Russian citizens’ property that Russia
effectuated within its own borders.”  The new case is Konowaloff v. Metropolitan Museum of Art,
10-CV-9126, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Philip Boroff  in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Manuela
Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 