-- European Shares Advance to Two-Year High; Societe Generale Gains
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2010-12-09T16:59:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/european-u-s-stock-futures-climb-on-faster-than-forecast-japanese-growth.html
European  stocks rose to a two-year
high, led by financial shares, as reports reassured investors
that the global economic recovery is intact.  Societe Generale SA  and Barclays Plc paced a rally in
banks.  ASML Holding NV  advanced 8 percent after the company
raised its forecast for bookings in the fourth quarter.  BG Group
Plc  rose to the highest in 2 1/2 years after saying it will get
about 600 million barrels of oil from initial operations at
Brazil’s Tupi and Guara fields.  Volkswagen AG  led carmakers
lower as China said it may end tax incentives for buying
passenger cars next year.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  gained 0.4 percent to 275.93 at
the close in London, the highest close since September 2008. The
measure of European shares has advanced 8.7 percent this year as
corporate  profits  improved and the Federal Reserve unveiled a
$600 billion bond-purchase program to assist the U.S. recovery.  “Equities are going to be seen as an attractive focus,”
 Chris Tinker , the founder of London-based Libra Investment
Services Ltd., said on Bloomberg Television’s “Countdown” with
Maryam Nemazee. Improving free-cash flow and earnings will be
“the fundamental support that will drive the equity market
outlook. We’ll see a more stable environment,” into next year.  Fewer Americans filed first-time claims for unemployment
insurance payments last week in the U.S., showing the labor
market is continuing to improve. Japan’s economy grew more than
the government initially estimated in the third quarter and
Australian employers last month added more than double the
number of workers economists had forecast.  Rally in 2011  Low valuations coupled with profits and economic growth
will help European stocks rally next year, according to Barclays
Plc strategists, who forecast the Euro Stoxx 50 Index may gain
18 percent from current levels through 2011. In a presentation
today, a team of strategists at the London-based bank
recommended holding shares in basic-resources, financial, food-
retail and industrial companies.  National benchmark indexes rose in 11 of the 18 western
European markets. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 gained 0.2 percent,
France’s CAC 40 climbed 0.7 percent and Germany’s DAX fell 0.2
percent.  The Bank of England kept its emergency stimulus program
unchanged after recent data suggested the economy may be strong
enough to weather government spending cuts, undermining the case
for more aid. The bank also kept its main interest rate at a
record low of 0.5 percent.  Societe Generale, Barclays  Societe Generale, the second-largest French bank, gained
3.8 percent to 41.60 euros. Barclays climbed 4.5 percent to 276
pence. AXA SA advanced 4.6 percent to 12.83 euros. Measures of
insurers and banks led the Stoxx 600 higher today as reports
showed the economic recovery is intact.  ASML Holding NV rallied 8 percent to 28.40 euros after the
company raised its forecast for bookings in the fourth quarter.
The chipmaker now expects bookings to be more than 2 billion
euros.  BG Group advanced 3.6 percent to 1,333.5 pence, the highest
closing level since May 2008. The oil and gas producer said it
expects “very low” unit technical costs for the initial phase
of development of the Tupi and Guara fields in the Santos Basin
offshore Brazil. The company also said it will get about 600
million barrels from initial operations.  Havas SA, owner of the Euro RSCG Worldwide advertising
agency, advanced 4.1 percent to 3.56 euros after Nomura Holdings
Inc. upgraded its recommendation on the shares to “buy” from
“neutral.”  Hochtief, Club Med  Hochtief AG climbed 2 percent to 64.67 euros. The company’s
potential new investor Qatar Holding LLC plans to increase its
stake above the announced 9.1 percent by buying more shares at
the stock exchange, Financial Times Deutschland reported today,
without saying where it got the information. Qatar, which
initially plans to buy new issued shares, aims to increase its
influence in the German builder further as Spanish competitor
Actividades de Construccion y Servicios SA is attempting a
hostile takeover of Hochtief, the newspaper said.  Club Mediterranee SA gained 7.5 percent to 14.79 euros as
the French operator of 80 resorts worldwide said its full-year
loss narrowed to 14 million euros ($18.6 million) from 53
million euros a year earlier.  Volkswagen fell 3.9 percent to 124.20 euros, while Porsche
SE dropped 4.1 percent to 62.02 euros. A gauge of automakers on
the Stoxx 600 lost as much as 2.8 percent, the biggest slide of
all 19 industry groups. China may end tax incentives for buying
passenger cars next year, Xiong Chuanlin, vice secretary-general
of the China Automobile Industry Association, said at a briefing
in Beijing today.  Standard Chartered Plc , the U.K. bank that gets more than
three quarters of earnings from Asia, declined 3.6 percent to
1,810 pence. Standard Chartered’s second-half “income levels”
will be “broadly flat” from the previous six months, the
company said in a statement today. Net interest income has
fallen “fractionally” this year from 2009 across the company,
it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Haigh  in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 