-- Euro Trades Near Week Low Versus Dollar on Debt Concern, Ireland Downgrade
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2010-12-10T01:01:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/euro-trades-near-week-low-versus-dollar-on-debt-concern-ireland-downgrade.html
The euro traded near the lowest in
more than a week against the dollar as concerns Europe’s debt
crisis will linger damped demand for the region’s assets.  Europe’s currency headed for a weekly loss against 10 of
its 16 major counterparts after Fitch Ratings downgraded
Ireland. European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  and
ECB Governing Council member  Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez  will
speak to reporters in Madrid today. The dollar held yesterday’s
loss against the yen as benchmark Treasury yields dropped,
reducing the allure of U.S. assets.  “Residual concern about European debt, I don’t think it’s
going to go away fully for quite some time,” said  Adam Carr , a
senior economist at ICAP Australia Ltd. in Sydney. “We haven’t
seen a lot of rise in the euro.”  The euro fetched $1.3233 at 9:18 a.m. in Tokyo from $1.3239
in New York yesterday, when it touched $1.3165, the lowest since
Dec. 2. The common currency has dropped 1.3 percent against the
greenback this week. The euro was at 110.88 yen from 110.87 yen,
following a 0.5 percent drop yesterday. The dollar traded at
83.79 yen from 83.76 yen.  The  Dollar Index,  which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners including the
euro, yen and pound, gained 0.1 percent to 80.099.  Fitch yesterday cut Ireland’s credit rating to BBB+ from
A+, three steps above non-investment grade, citing the mounting
cost to rescue the nation’s banking system.  Ireland Downgrade  “The downgrade reflects the additional fiscal costs of
restructuring and supporting the banking system,” Fitch said in
a statement. “Ireland’s sovereign credit profile is no longer
consistent with a high investment grade rating.”  Fianna Fail, the main party in the nation’s coalition
government, will put Ireland’s 85 billion-euro ($114 billion)
aid package from the European Union and International Monetary
Fund to a parliamentary vote Dec. 15, Prime Minister  Brian Cowen 
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Demand for the dollar was limited on speculation Federal
Reserve policy makers on Dec. 14 will discuss a potential plan
to extend Treasury purchases to support growth. They announced
last month a $600 billion second round of debt buying through
June.   “I don’t think the Fed wants yields to keep rising right
now, and they are likely to try to tame yield gains next week,”
said  Kengo Suzuki , manager of the foreign bond department in
Tokyo at Mizuho Securities Co. “The dollar is likely to switch
back to a negative trend.”  China’s Inflation  Treasury 10-year yields dropped seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 3.20 percent yesterday, according to
BGCantor Market Data. Government bonds tumbled this week after
U.S. President  Barack Obama  agreed to extend tax reductions for
two years and a payroll-tax cut.  The premium offered by 10-year government bonds in the U.S.
over Japan was 1.94 percent today, after widening to about 2.04
percent on Dec. 8, the most since June, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The yen may rise on speculation accelerating inflation will
prompt China to act further to cool growth, Suzuki said.  “China is highly likely to do something this weekend and
add to monetary tightening,” Suzuki said. “This may lead to
risk aversion and cause the yen to be bought, even though most
of it may have been priced in.”  China’s  consumer prices  rose 4.7 percent in November from a
year earlier after increasing 4.4 percent in October, according
to a Bloomberg News survey of economists before tomorrow’s data.
That would be the sharpest increase since August 2008.  The nation’s trade surplus narrowed to $21.2 billion in
November from $27.2 billion in October, according to another
Bloomberg survey before today’s data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
 Monami Yui  in Tokyo at   myui1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 