-- Fed to Weigh Debit-Card ‘Swipe’ Fee at Dec. 16 Meeting
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2010-12-10T00:29:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/federal-reserve-said-to-consider-interchange-fee-cap-on-dec-16.html
The Federal Reserve Board will meet
Dec. 16 to weigh a proposed cap of debit-card transaction fees
that could cut card-issuer profits and benefit retailers, the
Fed announced today.  The Fed is writing rules for debit-card transaction fees
under a provision of Dodd-Frank, the financial-regulation
overhaul enacted in July. The so-called Durbin amendment
requires that interchange fees -- what a merchant pays to the
bank that issues a customer’s debit card -- be “reasonable and
proportional to the cost incurred by the issuer.”  The regulation, which doesn’t cover credit-card fees, may
cut into profits for debit-card issuers like  Bank of America
Corp. , and reduce costs for retailers such as  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc.  and  Target Corp.   In September, Bank of America recorded a $10.4 billion
goodwill charge -- a reduction in the intangible value of the
business -- because of the interchange rule. The bank, based in
Charlotte, North Carolina, has said the caps could reduce annual
revenue by $2.3 billion.  Dodd-Frank requires the Fed, which writes regulations on
electronic payments, to complete the rule by April 21. The vote
will open a public comment period, after which the Fed board
will meet to vote on the final rule.  ‘Negative Consequences’  The law gives the Fed the authority to set interchange fees
based on the level of fraud and other reasons. It also
authorizes the Fed to consider unspecified facts that could give
the central bank leeway in setting the fees, said  Adam Frisch , a
Morgan Stanley analyst who covers Visa and MasterCard.  “The question is not how much interchange fees will go up,
the question is how far it will go down for debit,” Frisch said
in a telephone interview.  U.S. Senator  Thomas R. Carper , a Delaware Democrat who
opposed the Durbin amendment in Congress, sent a letter to Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  today urging him to “use the
discretion granted you to minimize negative consequences.”  Two lawmakers who voted for the provision, Senators  David Vitter  and  Mike Crapo , both Republicans, signed Carper’s letter.  “Senator Carper will consider what, if any, additional
steps are necessary after the Fed issues their rule on this
matter,” Emily Spain, a spokeswoman for the lawmaker, said in
an e-mail.  Susan Wheeler, a spokeswoman for Crapo, and Joel DiGrado, a
spokesman for Vitter, didn’t return e-mails seeking comment.  $19.7 Billion  Visa Inc.  and  MasterCard Inc.  set interchange, or “swipe”
fees and pass that money along to banks that issue cards.
Interchange is the largest part of the fees U.S. merchants pay
to accept plastic from Visa and MasterCard. Debit fees totaled
$19.7 billion and averaged 1.63 percent of each sale last year,
according to the Nilson Report, an industry newsletter.  Retailers say interchange fees are out of proportion to the
cost of providing the service. Banks say the legislation allows
retailers to avoid a valid cost of doing business, without
benefiting consumers.  The amendment was named for Senator  Richard Durbin , an
Illinois Democrat, who sponsored the provision. The Fed won’t
consider debit-card network fees, which are excluded under the
Dodd-Frank Act.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carter Dougherty  in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 