-- Fitch Downgrades Republic of Ireland's Ratings to BBB+; Outlook Is Stable
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n   a n d   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2010-12-09T13:30:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/fitch-downgrades-republic-of-ireland-s-ratings-to-bbb-outlook-is-stable.html
Ireland’s credit rating was cut three
levels by Fitch Ratings to the lowest of any of the major rating
companies after the country sought international assistance last
month to rescue its banks.  The rating was lowered to BBB+ from A+, Fitch said in a
statement in London today as it cut Ireland for the second time
in two months. The outlook on the rating, which is three steps
above non-investment grade, is “stable,” it said.  Ireland agreed to an 85 billion-euro ($112 billion) bailout
from European governments and the International Monetary Fund on
Nov. 28 as the cost of protecting ailing lenders overwhelmed the
state’s finances and sent the budget deficit soaring. European
authorities pressured the nation to seek aid in a bid to stem a
growing crisis and prevent contagion to Spain and Portugal.  “The downgrade reflects the additional fiscal costs of
restructuring and supporting the banking system,” Fitch said.
“Ireland’s sovereign credit profile is no longer consistent
with a high investment grade rating.”  Irish bonds rose today after declining immediately after
Fitch’s announcement. The yield on the 10-year security fell 3
basis points to 8.19 as of 12:44 p.m. in London.  The  premium  investors charge to hold the debt over German
bunds, Europe’s benchmark, was at 503 basis points, compared
with 502 basis points yesterday. It reached a euro-era record of
680 basis points on Nov. 30.  Greece Rating  Fitch analyst  Chris Pryce  said the three-step cut reflects
the “seriousness of the situation,” though he doesn’t expect
Ireland to default.  It’s “an investment grade rating. That doesn’t mean we
expect the country to default,” Pryce said on Dublin-based RTE
radio. “There is obviously a chance, but that is not our main
expectation.”  The downgrade leaves Ireland two rating steps above Greece,
which earlier this year became the first euro-area country to
seek aid from the EU and the IMF.  “The key point is the rating is still investment grade and
obviously Ireland needs to hold onto that,” said  Dermot O’Leary , chief economist at Goodbody Stockbrokers in Dublin.
“It has to sort out the banking system.”  Standard & Poor’s lowered Ireland’s rating by two levels to
A on Nov. 23, citing increased borrowing by the sovereign to
prop up its “troubled banking system.” Moody’s Investors
Service, which has Ireland on an Aa2 credit rating, last month
said a “multi-notch” downgrade was “most likely” because the
bailout would increase its debt burden.  Bank Rescue  Under the EU-IMF bailout, Irish banks will receive as much
as 35 billion euros of additional capital. The aid includes an
“immediate” injection of 10 billion euros, with a further 25
billion euros in contingency funding. With deposits falling and
lenders locked out of credit markets, Irish banks have increased
their reliance on emergency European Central Bank funding.  Allied Irish Banks Plc , Ireland’s second-biggest bank, said
Nov. 19 that deposits fell 17 percent this year.  Anglo Irish
Bank Corp. , nationalized in 2009, lost about 12 billion euros of
deposits this year, Chairman  Alan Dukes  said Nov. 25.  Ireland’s government this week unveiled a 6 billion-euro
budget tightening for 2011, the first step on a four-year plan
to lower the deficit to the EU limit of 3 percent of gross
domestic product. The shortfall will be about 12 percent of GDP
this year, or 32 percent of GDP once bank-rescue costs are
included.  The outlook for the Irish economy is “highly uncertain,”
Fitch said. The austerity measures, together with “accelerated
bank deleveraging, could stall the incipient recovery,”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Finbarr Flynn  in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  