-- Flaherty Touts Canada's Oil Sands in Speech to Fund Managers in New York
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r   a n d   A l e x a n d r e   D e s l o n g c h a m p s
-- 2010-12-09T17:56:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/flaherty-touts-canada-s-oil-sands-in-speech-to-fund-managers-in-new-york.html
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  touted the country’s energy resources in a speech to
investors in New York today, saying Canada is working to lessen
the environmental impact of the oil sands.  “We are a stable, reliable and secure source of oil for
the United States, the single biggest supplier of this country
in the world,” Flaherty said in the prepared speech he’s giving
at a Euromoney conference. “Our western oil sands will remain
an integral part of the Canadian economy and global supply.”  Canada is relying on  business investment  to help lead a
recovery that slowed to a  1 percent  annual pace in the third
quarter. Canadian publicly traded oil and gas companies spent
C$12.6 billion ($12.5 billion) on investment in the latest
quarterly filings, up from C$8.7 billion from the same quarter a
year earlier.  Since coming to power in 2006, Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  has promoted Canada as an “energy superpower,” pointing
to its political stability and proximity to the U.S. as
advantages. The country sits on the largest pool of oil reserves
outside the Middle East.  Flaherty said Canada’s investment in carbon capture and
storage technology will improve the oil sands operations’
environmental performance.  “We are bringing the same responsible stewardship to the
development of one of the few largely untapped sources of oil
left in the world, one the world will be able to count on well
into the future,” Flaherty said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in New York at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net ;
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 