-- For-Profit Colleges Scam Military for $521 Million, Report Says
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2010-12-09T19:25:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/for-profit-colleges-scam-military-for-521-million-senate-committee-says.html
Twenty for-profit colleges reaped
$521 million in U.S. taxpayer funds in 2010, seven times more
than in 2006, by recruiting armed-services members and veterans
through misleading marketing, according to a Congressional
report today.  Getting the money from military personnel helped the
companies circumvent a cap on the aid they can receive from the
Education Department, their main source of income, according to
the report from Iowa Democrat  Tom Harkin , chairman of the Senate
Health, Education, Labor and Pensions committee. Congress should
protect veterans and taxpayers from documented abuses by those
colleges, the report’s authors said.  The  Post-9/11 GI Bill , which Congress passed in 2008,
raised educational benefits for almost all military veterans,
and in some cases allowed them to pass money for school to
spouses and children, according to the report. The colleges made
it a priority to recruit military members to exploit the surge
in benefits, the authors said.  “Congress may have unintentionally subjected this new
generation of veterans to the worst excesses of the for-profit
industry: manipulative and misleading marketing campaigns,
educational programs far more expensive than comparable public
or non-profit programs, and a lack of needed services,”
according to the report.  The total of $521 million includes benefits from the
 Department of Veterans Affairs  as well as tuition assistance
from the Department of Defense.  GAO Request  Senator  Thomas Carper , a Democrat from Delaware, said he
asked the  Government Accountability Office  to investigate the
Defense Department’s ability to guard against waste in its
tuition-assistance program. A GAO report in August documented
misleading marketing at 15 for-profit colleges.  The department “has yet to increase oversight of this
education program, leaving us with no indication of whether this
increased cost to the taxpayers buys our military personnel the
kind of high quality education they so richly deserve,” Carper
said in an e-mail.  Harkin’s report is part of an effort to “demonize for-
profit colleges,” said Lanny Davis, a spokesman for the
 Coalition for Educational Success , a Washington-based industry
group. Davis held a news conference today to highlight revisions
the GAO made in the August report.  No Valid Data  “While Senator Harkin cites the anecdotes of a few unhappy
students, he has not produced valid data that examines student
satisfaction (military or otherwise) across all sectors of
higher education,” Davis said today in a statement.  The top five education companies in Post-9/11 GI Bill
revenue, from August 2009 through July, were  ITT Educational
Services Inc.  with $79.2 million;  Apollo Group Inc. , operator of
the University of Phoenix, with $76.9 million; Pittsburgh-based
 Education Management Corp.  with $60.5 million; Hoffman Estates,
Illinois-based  Career Education Corp.  with $58.2 million; and
Oakbrook Terrace, Illinois-based  DeVry Inc.  with $47.9 million,
according to the report.  Service members and veterans choose the University of
Phoenix because it meets their needs with flexible schedules;
online and ground campus course options; and education
technology, said  Manny Rivera , a spokesman for Apollo Group. The
University of Phoenix has been recognized by GI Jobs,
civilianjobs.com and Military Advanced Education in their Third
Annual Guide to America’s Top Military-Friendly Colleges, he
said in an e-mail.  ‘Our Mission’  “Our service of military students is driven by our mission
to provide access to higher education for historically
underserved populations,” Rivera said.  Apollo Group, based in Phoenix, fell $1.23, or 3.2 percent
to $36.82 at 2:20 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market
composite trading. Carmel, Indiana-based ITT Educational
declined $1.96, or 3.1 percent, to $60.65 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. An  index  of 13 education companies
retreated 1.5 percent.  American Public Education Inc. , the Charles Town, West
Virginia-based operator of American Military University,
projected receiving $98.1 million in tuition assistance from the
Defense Department, more than any other university surveyed,
according to the Harkin report. American Public declined $2.19,
or 6 percent, to $34.52 in Nasdaq composite trading.  Bridgepoint Education Inc. , based in San Diego, ranked
second with $41.2 million. Apollo Group, which received $39.1
million from the Department of Defense in 2009, didn’t provide
data for 2010, according to the report. Rivera, Apollo’s
spokesman, said the company didn’t have a fiscal 2010 figure
available at the time of the request for data.  Dropout Rates  Statistics suggest that the for-profit colleges attended by
military members have high dropout rates and poor educational
results, according to the report. At 4 of the 5 for-profit
colleges receiving the most in Post-9/11 GI Bill funding, loan
repayment rates were below 37 percent, according to the report.  At the same 4 schools, 24 percent of the students defaulted
on their loans, according to the report. The national rate of
student default on government loans was 7 percent in the
academic year ended in 2008, the most recent period for which
data are available, according to the  Education Department . The
default rate at U.S. for-profit colleges was 11.6 percent that
year, the department said Sept. 13.  Job Skills  The numbers in the report demonstrate that more veterans
and service members are choosing for-profit colleges to gain job
skills, said Harris Miller, president of the Washington-based
 Association of Private Sector Colleges & Universities , which
represents the industry.  “I find the whole report upside down,” he said. “It
shows our young men and women who have chosen to defend our
country are valuing education and doing everything to obtain the
training they need for a tough job market.”  A 2009 program created by Congress to provide tuition
assistance for military spouses cost the Defense Department $250
million in less than a year, according to the report. Forty-six
percent of the 136,000 spouses enrolled in the program attend
for-profit colleges, according to the report. The program was
redesigned with a less-generous benefits package.  ‘New Tool’  A 1992 law allows for-profit colleges to get as much as 90
percent of their revenue from federal financial aid. The
companies seek military students and veterans because their
education benefits are counted as a non-government source,
according to the Harkin report.  “The benefits provide a new tool to help for-profit
schools manage this increasingly challenging regulatory
requirement,” according to the report.  Apollo’s University of Phoenix derived 88 percent of
revenue from federal student aid in the fiscal year ended Aug.
31, an increase from 86 percent a year earlier,  Brian Swartz ,
the company’s chief financial officer, said Oct. 13 in a call
with analysts and investors. The University of Phoenix’s
dependence on federal student aid is “likely to exceed” 90
percent of revenue in fiscal 2012, he said then.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Lauerman  in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net . 