-- Ford Investing $600 Million, Hiring 1,800 at SUV Plant
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n   a n d   J e f f   G r e e n
-- 2010-12-09T21:09:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/ford-is-investing-600-million-in-kentucky-suv-plant-plans-to-hire-1-800.html
Ford Motor Co ., the world’s most
 profitable  automaker, is hiring 1,800 workers and spending $600
million to overhaul a factory in Louisville, Kentucky, to build
small sport-utility vehicles.  The factory, which now produces the midsize Ford Explorer
SUV, will begin building a redesigned version of the Escape
compact utility vehicle late next year, Marcey Evans, a Ford
spokeswoman, said in an interview. At that time, the plant will
begin operating two shifts and employing 2,900 workers, up from
one shift and 1,100 workers currently, she said.  Ford is transforming the Louisville plant into its most
flexible factory, capable of producing small cars, SUVs and
wagons. Such flexibility is typical of  Toyota Motor Corp.  and
 Honda Motor Co.  plants. Ford also plans to build a small Lincoln
SUV in Louisville starting in 2012, according to two people
familiar with the plan.  “Ford is putting itself in a position to answer the call
of the consumer and build whatever they want,” said  Michael Robinet , an analyst with IHS Automotive in Northville, Michigan.
“For several years, the method they used was to overbuild and
then tape money to the hood” by offering discounts on cars.  The Louisville factory will be able to make Ford’s new
Focus compact car, should consumer demand outstrip the factory
in Wayne, Michigan, where that model is built, Robinet said.
Louisville also could build the Grand C-Max wagon Ford is
bringing to the U.S. from Europe, he said.  Louisville Plans  Mark Fields , Ford’s president of the Americas, announced
production of only the Escape at a ceremony today at the
Louisville factory. There are no plans to build the Focus in
Louisville, Evans said.  Production  of the Lincoln small SUV may begin around June
2012, according to one of the people familiar with the schedule,
who asked not to be identified discussing internal company
plans. Evans declined to comment on the Lincoln SUV production.  State and local governments in Kentucky have committed to
give the automaker $240 million in tax incentives over the next
10 years, Ford said in a statement. The tax breaks are based on
current and potential future investments and job creation at
Ford’s two factories in Kentucky, the automaker said.  Today’s $600 million investment in Louisville is financed
in part by the $5.9 billion in U.S. Department of Energy loans
it received last year to produce more fuel-efficient vehicles,
Ford said.  Everything Goes  Once output of the 2010  Ford  Explorer ends Dec. 16, Ford
will gut the 55-year-old Louisville factory, Evans said. The
plant will receive new tools for assembling compact-sized
models, new equipment for building car bodies and upgrades to
its paint shop, she said.  “It will be a pretty major overhaul,” Evans said.  As many as 700 workers will be laid off in Louisville while
the plant is renovated over the next year and they will return
to work in the fourth quarter of 2011, said  John Stoll , a Ford
spokesman. Some of the workers that will be added at the plant
will be transfers from other Ford factories, Evans said.  Ford expects to hire about 1,000  employees  to either work
in Louisville or fill vacancies created by those moving to the
Kentucky factory, she said. The new hires will be paid about
$14.50 an hour, about half what veteran assembly workers make at
Ford, she said. To stimulate hiring and lower costs, the United
Auto Workers union agreed to create a second wage tier in the
2007 contracts with Ford, General Motors Corp. and Chrysler LLC.  “Louisville now is operating at half speed,” Robinet
said. “The increased flexibility there will really help Ford
better utilize its capital structure.”  European Basis  The next generation Escape that will be built in Louisville
is based on the Kuga model Ford sells in Europe, Robinet said.
It is expected to be more fuel efficient than the current
Escape, which gets 23 miles per gallon in the city and 28 mpg on
the highway, according to auto researcher Edmunds.com  Ford will end production of the existing Escape at its
Kansas City plant late next year as Louisville begins assembling
the new model, Evans said. Kansas City will continue to build
the Ford F-150 pickup on one shift. Missouri lawmakers have
offered Ford incentives to bring a new model to Kansas City and
keep the plant open.  “Additional new products for Kansas City will be announced
at a future time,” Evans said.  Ford, the only major U.S. automaker to avoid bankruptcy
last year,  earned  $6.37 billion in the first nine months of the
year, more than any other global carmaker. New models such as
the Fiesta subcompact and redesigned Taurus sedan have helped
Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford’s U.S. sales rise 21 percent this
year, almost twice the market’s gain of 11 percent.  Target Raised  Bank of America Merrill Lynch today raised its 2011
earnings estimate for Ford to $2.40 cents per share from $2.25
and increased its 12-month price target for the stock to $24
from $20.  “Ford’s financial performance over the past year has been
impressive,”  John Murphy , Bank of America auto analyst, wrote
in a research note. “We expect the company to continue
generating solid pretax profits in North America and in Ford
Motor Credit.”  Ford rose 7 cents to $16.76 at 4 p.m. in composite trading
on the New York Stock Exchange. The shares have risen 68 percent
this year.  The upgrades Ford is making at Louisville will put the
second-largest U.S. automaker in a better position to compete
against Toyota and Honda, Robinet said.  “This is another example of Ford taking an old-line
factory and moving it into the 21st Century,” Robinet said.
“Honda and Toyota have had flexible plants like this for years
and now Ford is catching up.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keith Naughton  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 Knaughton3@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Green  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 