-- France Backs Germany Rejecting More Aid, Joint Euro Bonds Before EU Summit
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2010-12-09T12:12:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/france-aligns-with-germany-to-reject-euro-bonds-before-summit.html
France backed Germany in refusing to
add to the European Union’s 440 billion-euro ($581 billion)
rescue fund and rejecting joint euro-area bonds, deepening bloc-
wide divisions before next week’s summit of EU leaders.  Proposals aired by Italy and Luxembourg for euro-area bonds
raise issues of moral hazard as well as how to share costs and
gains, a French government official said in Paris today. The
fund is adequate to deal with any eventual demands made on it,
the official told reporters on customary condition of anonymity.  French support strengthens Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s hand
going into the Dec. 16-17 EU summit. Merkel and President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  are due to hold talks in Germany tomorrow. With
the euro region’s two biggest economies digging in over further
measures to stem the debt crisis spilling across Europe,
tensions are being jacked up with other member states.  “We can’t put any more on the table,”  Michael Meister ,
the senior finance and economy spokesman for Merkel’s Christian
Democratic bloc, said in an interview. Luxembourg Prime Minister
 Jean-Claude Juncker  and Italian Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti , who floated proposals for joint euro-region bonds in
the Financial Times this week, “can surely say what they want -
- they can go ahead with joint bonds if they want.”  Agreement between France and Germany means EU leaders
probably won’t be able to offer financial markets any respite
next week from the turmoil caused by the sovereign debt crisis.  Euro, Bonds Decline  The euro declined 0.2 percent to $1.3206 at 1:05 p.m. in
Berlin, as Spanish and Portuguese bonds fell. German government
bonds gained, snapping a two-day drop, as appetite for the
benchmark securities increased.  The Spanish 10-year bond yield rose five basis points to
5.30 percent and Portuguese yields climbed two basis points to
6.27 percent. Irish 10-year bond yields rose two basis points to
8.23 percent after Fitch Ratings downgraded Ireland’s credit.  Any question of increasing the volume of the euro rescue
fund “does not arise at present,” the German Finance Ministry
said today. Available guarantees “are entirely sufficient.”  That leaves Merkel’s goal of a permanent safety net to
succeed the fund when it expires in 2013 as the only German plan
on the table.  “That’s our offer -- that’s what you can expect next
week,” Meister said. “Germany’s readiness to compromise has
been taken for granted, but that’s not how we see it.”  Regional Election Pressure  Merkel, whose coalition trails the opposition in opinion
polls, is under pressure from her party to hold firm as she bids
to stem Europe’s debt contagion ahead of elections next year in
seven of Germany’s 16 states. That means a permanent solution
involving investors and resisting committing any more taxpayer
money for now, Meister said.  In talks with Sarkozy in the French town of Deauville in
October, Merkel backed away from automatic sanctions for deficit
infringements by euro-area states. At a Nov. 28 meeting of
finance ministers, Germany agreed to make private bondholders
liable for losses only on a “case-by-case” basis.  Germany is ready to accept a prolongation of the rescue
fund beyond 2013 “provided we get bondholders to accept their
share of the burden in managing crises,” Meister said. Nothing
else is acceptable, he said. “Getting approval for that
proposal is a key German goal -- we’ve already done a lot in
this crisis.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian Parkin  in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
 Gregory Viscusi  in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  