-- Geneva Funds of Hedge Funds Assets Fall 60% After Madoff Fraud
-- B y   W a r r e n   G i l e s
-- 2010-12-10T18:35:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/geneva-funds-of-hedge-funds-assets-fall-60-after-madoff-fraud.html
Geneva’s funds of hedge funds are
losing assets two years after  Bernard Madoff  was arrested for
masterminding a Ponzi scheme that cost investors as much as $65
billion.  The money invested in more than 180 Geneva-based funds of
hedge funds totaled $14.8 billion at the end of October, down 60
percent from the week before Madoff’s arrest on Dec. 11, 2008,
according to data compiled by Singapore-based  Eurekahedge Pte.   Union Bancaire Privée, Banco Santander SA’s Optimal
Investment Services and Notz, Stucki & Cie. are among at least
seven Geneva-based firms that suffered $7 billion of losses from
the Madoff fraud. The model the city’s banks helped pioneer in
the 1960s is broken and faces competition from investments that
charge lower fees, said Drago Indjic, project manager at the
London Business School’s Hedge Funds Center.  “Funds of funds won’t explode or implode but slowly fade,
death by a thousand cuts,” Indjic said.  Managers of the funds invest in outside funds as opposed to
directly in the markets.  UBP, whose clients lost about $700 million from holdings
with Madoff, reported a 71 percent drop in hedge fund assets to
17 billion Swiss francs ($17.2 billion) in the two years through
June. The company agreed Dec. 6 to pay as much as $500 million
to settle claims by the trustee liquidating Madoff’s bankrupt
investment firm. UBP said it doesn’t admit any liability in its
settlement and declined to comment further.  Rebuilding Premature  Genevalor Benbassat & Cie. also is being sued by the
trustee. The Geneva-based firm denies the allegation that the
firm had prior knowledge of the fraud.  The company, which liquidated its fund of funds positions
after Madoff’s arrest, has suffered a 76 percent slump in assets
under administration and management to 440 million francs,
according to Partner Stéphane Benbassat.  “We’ve spent two years trying to defend our clients who
were victims of fraud and now risk becoming victims of the
system,” Benbassat said. “It’s premature to talk about
rebuilding the business.”  Peter Greiff , a spokesman for Spain’s Santander, whose
Geneva-based Optimal unit lost $3.2 billion with Madoff,
declined to comment.  Larger Funds  Larger hedge funds are finding it easier than smaller
rivals to attract inflows, said Peter Hegglin, a fund of funds
researcher at Mercer Investment Consulting in Zurich.  “As smaller funds are often unable to support the
additional expense of building solid operational structures,
asset allocators have since Madoff favored investing in larger
funds,”  Yves Mirabaud , managing partner of Geneva-based private
bank Mirabaud & Cie., which had no investments with Madoff, said
in an e-mailed statement.  While some firms struggle to retain customers, Pictet &
Cie., Geneva’s biggest private bank, is reporting net inflows
into its fund of hedge funds. Brevan Howard and Bluecrest
Capital Management LLP, Europe’s biggest and third-largest hedge
fund firms, have opened offices in Geneva this year.  “Clients have become more sophisticated and increasingly
bypass funds of hedge funds by investing directly,” said  Magne Orgland , a managing partner and head of asset management at St.
Gallen-based Wegelin & Co., Switzerland’s oldest private bank.
“Funds of hedge funds are no longer seen as the only investment
solution that provides decent downside risk control.”  Sophisticated Investors  Notz Stucki, whose clients lost a net $270 million with
Madoff, said the trend toward single-fund managers may continue
for some time before the diversification of funds of funds lures
investors back. The  firm’s biggest fund  of funds has attracted
more than $500 million since July 2009.  “People are still digesting what happened in 2008,” said
Marc Hoegger, a managing partner at Notz Stucki. “They look at
the whole alternative business, which is in a kind of test
phase, as an exotic animal.”  Geneva’s funds of funds gained by an average 0.32 percent
in the first 10 months of this year, trailing the 7.3 percent
gain for single-manager funds worldwide, Eurekahedge reported.  Madoff, 72, is serving a 150-year sentence in a federal
prison in North Carolina after admitting he directed the biggest
Ponzi scheme in history. At the time of his arrest, his account
statements reflected 4,900 accounts with $65 billion in
nonexistent balances.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Warren Giles  in Geneva at 
 wgiles@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  