-- Bunds Rise as 3% Yield for First Time in Seven Months Attracts Investors
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2010-12-09T14:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/german-bonds-rise-as-3-percent-yield-draws-investors-searching-for-income.html
German government bonds climbed,
snapping a two-day drop, as France backed Germany in refusing to
add to the European Union’s 440 billion-euro ($581 billion)
rescue fund and rejecting joint euro-area debt securities.  The gains sent 30-year German  yields  down from the highest
in almost seven months. Dutch and Belgian bonds also rose as
European Central Bank Governing Council member  Nout Wellink 
yesterday said he doesn’t favor joint bond issuance for the euro
region, while the ECB today said emergency liquidity measures
will stay “as long as necessary.” Irish bonds were little
changed after Fitch Ratings downgraded the nation’s credit.  “What is really moving the market is France backing
Germany,” said  Matteo Regesta , a fixed-income strategist at BNP
Paribas SA in London. “It’s just like the calm before another
storm will set in” for high-deficit nations’ bonds, he said.  The 10-year bund yield fell five basis points to 2.96
percent as of 1:30 p.m. in London. The 2.5 percent security
maturing in January 2021 rose 0.44, or 4.40 euros per 1,000-euro
($1,321) face amount, to 96.08. The yield on 30-year debt fell
eight basis points to 3.40 percent after reaching 3.51 percent
yesterday, its highest since May 20.  Dutch 10-year bond yields fell four basis points to 3.16
percent, and similar-maturity Belgian bond yields dropped five
basis points to 3.98 percent.  French Opposition  Bunds fell the past two days amid speculation that the euro
area’s strongest economies will need to extend further support
to weaker nations in the region.  Jean-Claude Juncker , prime
minister of Luxembourg and leader of the group of euro-area
finance ministers, and  Giulio Tremonti , finance minister of
Italy, wrote in the Financial Times on Dec. 6 that Europe should
issue common bonds in response to the sovereign debt crisis.  “Market concerns over core Europe’s credit sharing,
funding of the bailouts, and what consequences these may have on
any potential loan receiver continue to erode confidence in the
euro bond market,” a team of analysts at Nomura International
Plc in London led by  Nick Firoozye  wrote in a client note today.  France backs Germany’s resistance to increasing the size of
the European Union bailout fund and to joint euro-area bonds, a
French official told reporters today.  Euro bonds are an “implicit transfer of money to other
countries,” Wellink, the Dutch central bank chief, told
reporters in Frankfurt yesterday. Creating euro bonds would be
“a very intransparent way of burden sharing,” he said.  Volker Kauder , who heads the parliamentary party of German
Chancellor Angela Merkel’s Christian Democrats, said on German
ARD television that European treaties have no provision for a
commonly-issued euro bond, and that the nation’s Constitutional
Court would block any move to create such securities.  Opportunity to Sell  The Spanish 10-year yield rose four basis points to 5.29
percent. Portuguese yields were little changed at 6.26 percent.  Bonds from so-called peripheral nations rallied last week
as traders said the ECB increased purchases of government bonds.
The central bank said in its monthly bulletin today that it will
keep emergency liquidity measures for as long as needed to help
restore bank lending in the 16-member region.  “Any compression” of the  yield premium  investors demand
to hold high-deficit nations’ debt is “an opportunity to sell,
unless European officials wake up to their responsibilities,”
BNP Paribas’s Regesta said.  Commonly-issued bonds for euro-area member nations may be
the best way to pool sovereign risk and show commitment to the
European Monetary Union, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  ‘Optimal Risk-Sharing’  “If all countries, including those with the highest credit
quality, are truly committed to the euro, then the e-bond might
be an ex-ante optimal risk-sharing scheme,” rate strategist
 Francesco Garzarelli  and economist  Natacha Valla  wrote in today
an e-mailed report.  Investors should sell longer-dated German bonds because the
nation’s negotiating position is likely to become “more
accommodating,” according to  Steven Major , global head of
fixed-income research at HSBC Holdings Plc in London.  “Sovereign risk is likely to spread from the problem
markets to the ones that have to pay for it,” Major said. “The
bottom line is that Germany will have to pay in a muddling-
through scenario, and that adds risk premium to bunds.”  Irish 10-year bonds rose, sending the yield five basis
points lower to 8.16 percent, even after Fitch cut the nation’s
credit ratings to BBB+ from A+. The company said Ireland’s
“financing flexibility” is reduced given costs to bail out the
nation’s banks.  “Ireland’s sovereign credit profile is no longer
consistent with a high investment-grade rating,” Fitch wrote.
“Ireland’s continued investment-grade status is underpinned by
the EU-International Monetary Fund external support.”  ‘Cheap’ Belgian Bonds  Government bond trading flows show there is some appetite
for bonds issued by Ireland, Portugal and Italy, reflecting an
easing of stresses in those markets, according to ING Groep NV.  “We have seen some reasonable nibbling of peripheral paper
from the buyside,”  Padhraic Garvey , head of developed-market
debt strategy in Amsterdam, wrote in an e-mailed note today.
There’s “also some decent interest in Belgian paper, which we
now see as quite cheap in the wake of recent weeks of
underperformance,” he wrote. “Not big flows, but at least ones
that have a more positive tint than that of previous weeks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  