-- Germans Get Jobs for Life at Siemens as Export Boom Shrinks Labor Supply
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2010-12-09T23:01:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/germans-get-jobs-for-life-as-export-boom-shrinks-worker-pool.html
     Dec. 10 (Bloomberg) --- Germany’s  export-driven  industry is
embracing an asset closer to home: domestic workers.  BASF SE , the world’s largest chemicals maker, last month
followed  Siemens AG  in granting job security for the 33,000
workers at its Ludwigshafen plant. Siemens, the biggest German
company by market value, said in September it will indefinitely
secure locations and jobs for all its 128,000 domestic employees
in the most sweeping concession to local workers yet. Utility
 E.ON AG  and carmaker  Porsche AG  have similar accords.  Unemployment  in Europe’s largest economy has tumbled to the
lowest level in 18 years, as companies seek skilled workers to
sustain an economic rebound that shows few signs of cooling. The
demand for local talent marks a shift from a decade-long trend
of companies moving production abroad to escape high wages and
German labor market regulation that hampered hiring and firing.  “The way BASF is positioned today in Ludwigshafen in terms
of internal flexibility and social partnership arrangements, we
now outclass any other region in the world in our industry,”
said Hans-Carsten Hansen, head of human resources at the world’s
largest chemicals company. “Sometimes I want to spend less time
negotiating, but you get out what you put in.”  Back in Favor  Between 1990 and 2007, BASF reduced its workforce by more
than 40 percent at its home site. Siemens, based in Munich, also
chipped away at its domestic workforce. In 1995, the company had
203,000 workers in Germany, equal to 54 percent of the total, a
figure that has since shrunk to 128,000, or 32 percent.  “German companies have progressed on the learning curve,
with competition from abroad holding their feet to the fire,”
said  Ralph Wiechers , chief economist at the Frankfurt-based VDMA
machine makers’ association. “The pendulum has swung back in
recent years to balance out production abroad and at home.”  German workers have more clout than in other countries
because they are represented in the highest echelons of company
management. Every supervisory board of publicly traded companies
is evenly split between representatives for management and
employees. That system, unique to Germany, gives works councils
and union members more sway over strategy, hiring and firing, as
well as the pay of senior executives.  “When I left General Electric, I thought this can’t
possibly work, you can’t run a company with all these labor
representatives on the board,”  Peter Solmssen , who joined
Siemens’s management board in 2007, said in an interview in
Munich on Dec. 1.  Master Craftsmen  Solmssen, a U.S. citizen who oversees compliance at the
engineering company, said he has since revised his opinion, as
Siemens “gains more from working with the labor representatives
than what we give up.”  Germany, with 82 million people and a gross domestic
product of 2.4 trillion euros ($3.3 trillion), relies on an
apprentice system rooted in the tradition of master craftsmen
handing down their expertise to young people, producing a steady
stream of qualified workers.  Siemens Chief Executive Officer  Peter Loescher  said he’s
“desperately seeking engineers,” with about 3,000 unfilled
positions in Germany, twice the number from the middle of last
year. Most openings are for engineers, computer and natural
scientists, according to Siemens.  The country may have a shortage of as many as 220,000
engineers and scientists by 2014, a deficit that may swell to
425,000 by 2020, the Cologne-based IW economic institute
estimates. While the number of university graduates for
engineering jobs is “somewhat encouraging” lately, the number
of unfilled positions continues to rise, said Oliver Koppel,
senior economist at the institute.  Flexible Hours  Siemens spearheaded agreements with workers for more
flexible work hours in 2004, helping both sides preserve jobs
even as demand dwindled. When the global financial crisis hit
demand in 2008, the company put workers on reduced hours to
avoid outright layoffs.  Daimler AG reduced hours of about 120,000 people, almost
its entire German workforce in production and administration.
Robert Bosch GmbH, the world’s largest automotive supplier, put
as many as 100,000 of its 270,000 employees on shorter shifts.  “We demand noticeably higher flexibility from our
employees, and this flexibility is a success story,”  Juergen Hambrecht , CEO of BASF, told a conference on Nov. 25 in Berlin.  As a reward for concessions during the global economic
contraction after 2008, Siemens aims to spend 310 million euros
on a bonus for non-management employees and bring forward a 2.7
percent pay increase for workers in Germany. The company is also
spending 100 million euros revamping facilities in Berlin, which
remains its largest global manufacturing hub.  ‘Competitive Edge’  “The agreement is good for employees as it gives them
secure jobs, and good for the company as it gives Siemens a
competitive edge in getting skilled workers and engineers,”
said  Dieter Scheitor , who represents the IG Metall labor union
on the Siemens supervisory board.  Reforms backed by employees helped make the German labor
market more flexible. The government cut jobless benefits, asked
workers to pay part of their health-care costs, and put pressure
on the unemployed to take low-paid work. Companies were given
more flexibility in their use of temporary workers. The
government also subsidized the shortened working hour model.  The program supported up to 1.5 million employees at some
63,000 companies and saved as many as 478,251 jobs last year,
according to the Federal Labor Agency.  Network Intact  “What’s been called the German job miracle was no miracle,
but the result of preparation for critical times, noticeably
shorter work weeks and higher flexibility,”  Klaus Engel , CEO of
Evonik Industries AG, said in Berlin on Nov. 25.  Germany’s  unemployment rate  dropped to 7.5 percent this
November, the lowest in more than 18 years, from 9.1 percent in
June 2007. In the  U.S. , it more than doubled to 9.8 percent from
4.6 percent in the same period. In 2005, Germany’s 10-year
growth rate was half that of the U.S., and its unemployment rate
more than double. Today, Germany is growing faster than the U.S.  “Germany’s network of industrial manufacturing is its own
microcosm and the envy of other economies,” said Wiechers, the
VDMA economist. “And that network remained intact during the
crisis, unlike those of other countries, where holes started
appearing. You can’t go fishing with a net that has holes.”  Wage Demands  While wage restraint has helped Germany succeed, the
greater flexibility over pay has come at a price. More than 7
million people in Germany work in the low-wage jobs today,
according to estimates by the IG Metall labor union. Germany was
the only one of 27 European Union countries where wages fell
between 2000 and 2008, according to the Hans Boeckler
Foundation, a union-sponsored economic institute.  Still, as the economy rebounds, workers in some industries
are asking for their share of the recovery. Germany’s chemical
workers union on Dec. 7 demanded up to 7 percent more pay. The
IG Metall has demanded a 6 percent increase for workers at
Volkswagen.  “This workforce has put in extra shifts without end to
help satisfy demand,”  Bernd Osterloh , the chief labor
representative at VW, Europe’s largest carmaker, told 20,000
workers at its Wolfsburg headquarters yesterday. “There are
more than 90,000 workers who stand behind this company. And
that’s also why the economic crisis never really took hold at
Volkswagen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 