-- Getco Hires NYSE Euronext Options Chief Edward Boyle as Exchange Liaison
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2010-12-09T16:24:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/getco-hires-nyse-euronext-options-chief-edward-boyle-as-exchange-liaison.html
Edward Boyle , who has overseen NYSE
Euronext’s options business for the last three years, will join
automated-trading firm Getco LLC in January.  Getco spokeswoman Sophie Sohn confirmed the hiring and said
Boyle will manage Getco’s relationships with exchanges and
trading platforms and work on business strategy from Chicago.  The 11-year-old company operates in more than 50 markets in
North and South America, Europe and Asia, providing liquidity to
investors in equity, fixed-income, currency and commodity
products. It’s one of five so-called designated market makers on
New York Stock Exchange and has been among the  three largest 
liquidity providers on Nasdaq Stock Market each month since May,
according to data on Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.’s website.  “Ed will play an important role in managing our
relationships with the more than 50 exchanges and platforms
globally on which we participate and make markets,” Getco co-
founder Stephen Schuler said in an e-mailed statement.  Boyle, executive vice president at  NYSE Euronext , ran the
company’s two options markets, NYSE Arca and NYSE Amex, as
regulatory and trading changes drove competition between venues
pursuing different rules and pricing. There are nine U.S.
options markets, up from six when he joined NYSE.  Market Share  NYSE Euronext ’s share of total options contracts was  23.1
percent  in November, 2 percentage points higher than in November
2007, data from Chicago-based Options Clearing Corp. show. Boyle
oversaw the overhaul of the options business at the American
Stock Exchange after NYSE Euronext acquired Amex in 2008.  “Ed Boyle has led our U.S. options team with distinction
over the last three years, building a stronger and more
customer-focused franchise, and producing real growth in market
share and revenue,” NYSE Euronext said in an e-mailed
statement.  At Getco, Boyle will join  Elizabeth King , a former lawyer
at the Securities and Exchange Commission who was the agency’s
primary regulator for U.S. options; Jennifer Boneham, previously
an executive with the U.K.’s Financial Services Authority,
 Daniel Coleman , former global head of equities at UBS AG; and
 Todd Abrahall , from the NYSE. Abrahall oversees Getco’s market-
making operation on the Big Board. All were hired this year.  The company has invested in at least five electronic
markets, including Bats Global Markets, Chi-X Europe, Eris
Exchange, NYSE Liffe US and ELX Futures LP. Getco employs about
300 people and has offices in New York, London and Singapore,
Sohn said. It also operates a U.S. dark pool, or private venue
that doesn’t display quotes publicly.  Boyle joined NYSE Euronext in October 2007 from TD
Securities, owned by Toronto Dominion Bank, where he was vice
president and director of business development for equity
derivatives.  He has four brothers in the options business. Jim Boyle is
a Chicago-based executive director at UBS Securities, owned by
Zurich-based UBS AG, and Jack Boyle is an executive at a unit of
Dallas-based Penson Worldwide Inc. Two others, Terry and Kevin,
have traded options professionally.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nina Mehta  in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 