-- Ghana Central Bank May Hold Key Interest Rate on Government Spending Plans
-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 2010-12-09T09:27:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/ghana-likely-to-keep-key-rate-unchanged-as-spending-rises-inflation-slows.html
Ghana’s  central bank will probably
leave its benchmark lending rate unchanged for the second
consecutive meeting as inflation slows and the government ramps
up spending.  All six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect the Bank of
Ghana to hold the policy rate at 13.5 percent. The bank reduced
the rate by 1.5 percentage points in July and left it unchanged
on Sept. 24. The decision will be announced at 11 a.m. tomorrow
in the capital, Accra.  “Given the increased spending plan of government in the
2011 budget, we expect interest rates to be maintained to
balance the anticipated aggressive spending next year,” Edem
Dewotor, a Johannesburg-based analyst at Ecobank Transnational
Inc., said in an e-mail on Dec. 7.  Ghana, which is set to begin oil production at its offshore
Jubilee field next week, will increase expenditure by 15 percent
to 12.7 billion cedis ($8.8 billion) next year, Finance Minister
 Kwabena Duffuor  said Nov. 18. The country will earn 584 million
cedis from oil next year, he said.  The central bank lowered the policy rate four times between
November 2009 and July as inflation slowed from the five-year
high of 20.7 percent reached in June 2009. Stability in the
local currency, the cedi, helped cut the cost of imports. The
currency will probably remain stable 1.41 and 1.45 to the dollar
in 2011,  Stephen Bailey-Smith , an analyst at Standard Bank Group
Ltd., said on Nov. 30.  “With October inflation steady at 9.38 percent, market
expectations are now shifting in favor of a ‘no change’ decision
at the bank’s meeting,” said  Razia Khan , London-based head of
Africa research at Standard Chartered Bank Plc, in an e-mailed
note on Dec. 7.  Non-food inflation “remains in double digits,” said
 Sampson Akligoh , an analyst at Accra-based Databank Financial
Services. “Hovering around 11.8 percent, this should support a
steady rate decision,” he said in an e-mailed note on Dec. 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Moses Mozart Dzawu  in Accra at 
 mdzawu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 