-- Gift Ideas for Every Gadget-Head on Your List: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2010-12-09T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/gift-ideas-for-every-gadget-head-on-your-list-rich-jaroslovsky.html
Maybe everyone on your holiday gift
list already has an iPod and a Flip videocam. Fret not. The
proliferation of personal-tech gadgets means there’s a present
for every personality type, interest and need. For instance:  The Couch Potato: While this was the year 3-D television
arrived in the mainstream, its high cost and limited content
made for a slow start. Meanwhile, 2-D high-definition sets
continue to get better and cheaper. At the head of the pack:
 Samsung , whose LED sets such as the  6800 series  ($2,299 to
$2,999) provide jaw-dropping picture quality in a panel that’s
less than an inch-and-a-quarter (3.2 centimeters) thick.  The Early Adopter: Speaking of 3-D TV, of all the things
holding it back, the dumbest has to be that you can’t use one
manufacturer’s set with another’s 3-D glasses: The two pairs
that come with most sets make for an awfully small Super Bowl
party. XpanD’s  X103 Universal  glasses ($129) work with sets from
10 companies. It’s still a bit of a hassle to change the
settings from one set to another, and some TVs require using an
extra transmitter. But it’s at least a step toward liberation
from the tyranny of specs.  The Audiophile: Cue Acoustics’  Model R1 tabletop radio 
($399) packs a lot of volume and beautiful sound into a
handsome, compact box that also includes an integrated
iPhone/iPod dock. If you can spend a little more, Cue’s $99 S1
satellite speaker provides extra stereo separation. It’s
remarkably good -- and even more remarkable, it’s hand-built in
Massachusetts.  The Lazy Housekeeper:  IRobot ’s Roomba may have pioneered
the look-ma-no-hands vacuum cleaner, but  Neato Robotics’ XV-11 
($399) is the latest generation. It uses a laser sensor to
create an internal map of its surroundings that it uses to plot
its path and minimize collisions with walls and furniture. In
terms of cleanliness, the Neato is no substitute for a human
wielding a Hoover -- but it’s a whole lot less work.  The Game Player: Imagine playing Xbox- or PlayStation-quality
games on your TV without the Xbox or PlayStation. That’s the
idea behind the  OnLive Game System  ($99). The games aren’t
downloaded; they reside on the Internet and are played entirely
online. The initial selection is limited but has some
recognizable names --“Batman: Arkham Asylum,” anyone? -- and
the adapter uses a wired connection instead of Wi-Fi. On the
other hand, watch for a soon-to-come $9.99 monthly all-you-can-
play service: think “Netflix for games.”  The Road-Warrior Speed Freak: Who needs a Wi-Fi hotspot?
 Verizon  Wireless’s new 4G network delivers a song in four
seconds, and a 35 MB video clip in less than half a minute. The
new network went live last weekend in 38 metropolitan areas and
60 airports. Laptop users can plug into speeds five times
greater than 3G with the  LG  VL600 USB Modem ($99.99 with a two-
year contract). Look for new smartphones to take advantage of
the network early next year. How long until one of ‘em is an
iPhone?  The On-the-Go Media-Muncher: For anyone who travels with an
iPhone, iPad or other Bluetooth-enabled device, Aliph’s  Jawbone
Jambox  ($199) is a palm-sized package of sonic fun. Roughly the
size of a blackboard eraser, the Jambox is a wireless speaker
that can be tossed into a suitcase or computer bag to enliven a
soulless hotel room. Play music out loud, watch a movie without
using headphones and catch every pig-grunt in “Angry Birds.”  The E-Reading Reader:  Amazon.com  managed to make the thin,
light, easy-to-read Kindle even thinner, lighter and easier to
read -- to say nothing of cheaper -- than the one it replaced.
Still,  Barnes & Noble  won the race to color with the  Nook Color 
($249), a handsome Wi-Fi tablet that, besides providing an
excellent reading experience, is also the best dedicated e-
reader for magazines or surfing the Web.  The Anti-Apple Activist: Yes,  Apple ’s iPhone 4 is
beautiful, and all that dropped-call fuss turned out to be much
ado about very little. But 2010 will go down as the Year of
Android, and for those who would rather tie themselves to
 Google ’s software than  Steve Jobs ’s, there are the Samsung
 Galaxy S smartphones  ($199 to $249 with a two-year contract).
Gorgeous screens, robust performance -- and versions are
available on all major U.S. carriers.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Rich Jaroslovsky  in San Francisco at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 