-- Gladiator Helmet Seeks to Eliminate Concussion Pain From Football Players
-- B y   J a m e s   S t e r n g o l d
-- 2010-12-09T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/gladiator-helmet-seeks-to-eliminate-concussion-pain-from-football-players.html
As an offensive tackle for the San
Francisco 49ers in their glory years,  Steve Wallace  knew plenty
about the pain of concussions.  So when he got clobbered by a linebacker in 1994, Wallace
recalls that he expected the familiar aftershock. Instead,
Wallace walked away uninjured because he was wearing a foam
helmet protector called a ProCap, Bloomberg Businessweek reports
in its Dec. 13 edition.  “I was just waiting for that buzz, that pain you get, but
it didn’t happen,” he said.  During a National Football League season marked by head
injuries and a quest to protect players from hits to the head
and neck, the technology that spared Wallace may be poised for a
comeback. Its inventor, designer Bert Straus, has incorporated
the ProCap concept into a helmet he calls the Gladiator, with
three layers of protection instead of the current two.  The Gladiator has padding on the outside, then hard
plastic, then more padding inside to distribute the energy of
impact. The face mask is mounted on flexible plastic to absorb
blows.  “The answer is not to keep making these things harder,”
Straus said, smiling as he bashed his knee with one of his
helmets.  The original ProCap was worn in the early 1990s by a
handful of players who had suffered concussions. It was a
polyurethane foam shell stuck to a standard hard helmet with
Velcro. Players thought it looked ridiculous, so it never caught
on.  ‘Look Cool’  “You wanted to look cool out there,” said Mark Kelso, who
as a safety for the Buffalo Bills wore the ProCap because of
concussions. Kelso swallowed his pride and said he discovered
that it worked well, adding years to his career.  He is an investor in Protective Sports Equipment, Inc., an
Edinboro, Pennsylvania, company part-owned by Straus that made
both the ProCap and today’s Gladiator, now streamlined so it no
longer seems like a prop from “ The Jetsons ” television
cartoon.  As an independent designer, Straus has worked on everything
from dental equipment to streetcars. He designed the ProCap in
the 1980s after seeing players carted from the field on
stretchers. He calls the Gladiator a passion, driven by the
conviction that concussions can be stopped by abandoning rock-
hard helmets.  Youth, College Market  The NFL says players can wear the Gladiator if it is
approved by a national standards group. Straus said he’s seeking
approval. The real prize, though, is the much  larger market  for
college and youth teams, which often take their cues from the
pros.  One potential roadblock is a claim by some specialists that
the foam shell, because blows are absorbed rather than glancing
off it, may transfer the energy of a hit from a player’s head to
his neck. Straus says the theory isn’t backed by evidence, and
Wallace and Kelso say that’s contrary to what they experienced
in years of using the ProCap.  “I never had another concussion when I wore it,” Wallace
said. “I want the guys out there to know about this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Sterngold  in New York at 
 Jsterngold2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  