-- Google Trails Alibaba in China Market, Analysys Says
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2010-12-09T12:43:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/google-overtaken-by-alibaba-in-china-ad-sales-researcher-says.html
Google Inc. , which shut its search-
engine service in China this year after a censorship dispute
with regulators, slipped to third place behind  Alibaba Group
Holding Ltd.  in online advertising sales in the world’s biggest
Internet market by users, a research company said.  Alibaba accounted for 9.3 percent of China’s online ad
sales in the third-quarter, rising from 7.8 percent three months
earlier, Analysys International said in a statement today. That
ranks the company behind only  Baidu Inc. , after Google’s market
share fell to 8.9 percent from 10.8 percent, Analysys said.  Google has lost market share in China since January, when
the owner of the world’s biggest search-engine said it was no
longer willing to comply with Chinese online censorship laws.
Closely held Alibaba, China’s biggest e-commerce company, has
increased sales of keyword advertising on its websites including
Taobao.com and Alibaba.com.  Justine Chao, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman at Alibaba,
declined to comment.  Marsha Wang , a Beijing-based spokeswoman at
Google, couldn’t immediately be reached on her mobile phone.  Google’s combined  revenue  in China from display ads, online
search and Chinese companies marketing on Google’s global sites
has increased this year,  Daniel Alegre , the company’s vice
president for the Asia-Pacific region, said this week. Google’s
online ad sales in China rose to 679.8 million yuan ($102
million) in the third quarter, from 627 million yuan a year
earlier, Analysys said.  Baidu, owner of China’s biggest search-engine, remained the
leader in the local online advertising industry with 30.1
percent market share last quarter, according to Analysys.  Google’s search-engine business in China is “solid,”
Alegre said this week without elaborating. In March, the U.S.
company shut its China-based search service and directed local
users to a Hong Kong site to avoid regulations for websites to
self-censor content.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  