-- Greece Selling Diaspora Bonds Mimics Israel in Looking Overseas
-- B y   M a x   R a s k i n   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2010-12-09T13:06:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/greece-selling-diaspora-bonds-mimics-israel-in-looking-overseas.html
Nina Vacratsis left Greece 64 years
ago, and the old country is counting on her more than ever.  The 72-year-old retired human resources worker from  Sarnia ,
Ontario, is one of about 11 million people of Greek descent
spread across the U.S., Canada, Australia and other parts of the
world. The Greek government plans to ask them next year to buy
bonds as debt-market investors avoid them following this year’s
financial rescue of the country.  “The U.S. had war bonds people bought to help the country
when it was at war so in a way this is an economic war Greece is
fighting right now,” Vacratsis said by telephone from her home
5,200 miles away from Athens. “If in a small way I can help at
this point then sure, why not?”  The country will follow Israel and India by turning to
loyal citizens living abroad to buy so-called diaspora bonds.
Since Greece received a 110 billion-euro ($146 billion) package
of loans from the European Union and International Monetary Fund
in May, it hasn’t managed to sell bonds with a maturity of
longer than six months on regular markets since April. That was
the month Standard & Poor’s cut its credit rating to junk, or
non-investment grade, because of the higher risk.  “The diaspora has a lot of wealth and Greece has a sizable
diaspora,” said  Dilip Ratha , an economist at the Washington-
based World Bank who has studied  alternative financing . “The
question is do Greek diaspora members want to invest in the
country and how much faith do they have in the country.”  Soaring Costs  Interest costs for Greece are more than four times higher
than for Germany based on 10-year bond yields and twice that of
Portugal, one of the countries investors expect might follow
Greece and Ireland in needing a bailout. The cost of insuring
against non-payment for Greek debt also is more than twice that
of Portugal, according to data compiled by CMA.  Greece’s 6.25 percent bonds due in June 2020 are rated BB+
by S&P and Ba1 by Moody’s Investors Service, both one notch
below investment grade. Sovereign bonds of former Soviet state
Azerbaijan and Egypt are rated the same level.  Diaspora bonds will tap millions of Greeks abroad who want
to help the country, Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou 
said in September. The country plans a first issue next year, he
said. There are as many Greeks living overseas as the 11 million
at home, he said.  A diaspora bond “is something that we want to do,”
Papaconstantinou said. “We’ll be rolling something like this
out in 2011.”  Mazel Tov  The government reiterated its plans to sell to “the wider
investment public” in the U.S., Canada and Australia during its
2011 budget, which was presented to parliament on Nov. 18.
 Petros Christodoulou , director general of the Greek Debt
Management Office in Athens, declined to comment when contacted
by e-mail this week.  Israel has raised more than $31 billion by selling bonds to
Jewish communities and institutional investors around the world
via the Development Corporation for Israel, according to data
from the Bank of Israel in Jerusalem. Current sales include 5-
year Jubilee Issue bonds paying 2.22 percent a year with the
minimum investment of $25,000 and 5-year Mazel Tov bonds paying
1.6 percent a year with a minimum subscription of $100,
according to the  Development Corporation’s website .  The country benefits from supporters abroad reacting to
security threats against the Jewish state, said  Joshua Matza ,
the group’s chief executive officer.  When Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  “visits the
Lebanon border, I can tell you for sure we will sell more
bonds,” he said. “Greece doesn’t have the dangers that Israel
has. No one in the world has these dangers.”  War Bonds  Diaspora bonds are typically sold to individual investors
as opposed to fund managers. They buy them directly from the
government agency charged with selling them. The U.S. government
sold Liberty Bonds to the public during World War I and Series E
bonds in World War II to help finance the war effort.  India’s stock and currency markets slumped in 1998 and its
credit rating was cut the same year after the country exploded
five nuclear bombs. Locked out of financial markets, India
tapped its diaspora, offering expatriates as much as 8 percent
interest to raise $4.2 billion.  India has raised more than $11 billion in three separate
issuances since 1991, according to a study by  Suhas Ketkar , an
economics professor at Vanderbilt University in Nashville,
Tennessee.  The trick for Greece is to offer high enough yields to
assuage investors’ wariness about Greece’s economic state,
according to Ratha of the World Bank.  Buying Opportunity  He estimated Greece could raise $10 billion, assuming the
government gets the marketing right. If the Greek government
were to offer more than 3 percent interest, the bonds could be
“very attractive,” he said.  “The global crisis might actually be a good time because
if things were going well in international markets and a lot of
attractive investment propositions were out there, the diaspora
bonds would have to compete,” Ratha said.  Greek 10-year bonds yield 11.44 percent, compared with 8.96
percent before the bailout in May and 6.1 percent in March.
Equivalent German bonds yield 2.92 percent, while those of
Portugal stand at 5.77 percent. The yield on 10-year Israeli
bonds is 4.58 percent, while it’s 8.07 percent for India.  The Greek government is talking to banks and brokers about
pricing and how to bring the diaspora bonds to market,
Papaconstantinou said in September.  ‘Very Distraught’  For now, the EU-led bailout is protecting Greece from
having to pay record-high borrowing costs. The program will
provide Greece with funding for three years as the country tries
to curb a  budget shortfall  that climbed to 15.4 percent of
economic output in 2009, a record for countries using the euro.
Greece’s budget woes led to European sovereign debt losses that
ultimately engulfed Ireland last month.  Vacratsis, who lived in Greece during World War II, said
she’s “very distraught” about the plight of her native
country. She said she’s waiting for details of any bond sale to
ensure it won’t “line the politicians’ pockets.”  “That’s the fear I would think that most people in the
diaspora would have,” said Vacratsis, whose father was an
Orthodox priest. “There’s not much trust, let’s put it this
way.”  Greece needed a bailout as international investors demanded
higher risk premiums to take into account debt that exceeds the
size of the country’s economy and tax collection that’s among
the worst in the EU. Prime Minister  George Papandreou  came to
power in October 2009, only for his government to find that
Greece’s budget deficit was wider than previously reported.  Possible Default  Any sums raised from diaspora bonds will be small relative
to the country’s 336 billion euros of debt at the end of
September.  “I might love Greece but I am not a fool,” Michael
Patmios, 43, a Greek-American, said by e-mail from the U.S.
“Greece will default and no amount of sentimentality will stop
that from happening. Diaspora bondholders will not be bailed out
when Greece defaults, unlike the big banks from Europe.”  A successful diaspora bond sale might help Greece shore up
its credit rating, which was cut to junk in June by after S&P
two months earlier. The sale would be “credit positive,”
though not on its own influence Greece’s rating,  Sarah Carlson ,
an analyst at Moody’s, said in an e-mail on Oct. 14.  Key to the success of the sale will be whether Greece can
convince investors the funds won’t just be poured into a black
hole, said  Ketkar , the economics professor.  Invest in Infrastructure  “The Greeks would probably benefit from showing that the
money is going to actual projects, not the bottomless pit of
funding the deficit,” Ketkar said by telephone from the U.S.
“The most important condition to being successful in issuing
diaspora bonds is the marketing.”  Israel has used much of the money raised from its bond
sales to invest in roads, trains, factories and ports.
 Development Corporation for Israel , founded in 1951 to ease the
economic problems facing the nascent state, gives potential
investors tours of the country to show how their money will be
spent, said Uri Cohen, director of the agency.  “They love it and their dollars follow,” he said in an
interview from Jerusalem. “You can pay down your debt, but if
you show a real program, you will be able to succeed.”  Vacratsis, whose family comes from  Thessaly in central
Greece , wants to see just that. She said she feels sorry for
what she calls the middle class in Greece, as pensions decline,
taxes increase and state spending falls as conditions for the EU
and IMF rescue.  “I love Greece and I want to only see it go forward and
right now it’s taken a big step backwards,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Max Raskin  in Tel Aviv at 
 mraskin3@bloomberg.net ;
 Maria Petrakis  in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rodney Jefferson at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net  