-- Life Expectancy in the U.S. Drops for First Time Since 1993, Report Says
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2010-12-09T16:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/life-expectancy-in-the-u-s-drops-for-first-time-since-1993-report-says.html
Life expectancy of Americans fell for
the first time in 15 years, as the nation’s oldest adults died
from heart disease, cancer and respiratory ailments, according
to a report by the  National Center for Health Statistics .  Based on data from 2008, the latest available,  life
expectancy  in the U.S. fell 36.5 days from 2007 to 77.8 years,
according to the report released today. Life expectancy is
calculated by taking the death rates from the U.S. population in
a specific year and figuring out the average number of years
remaining for a person born in 2008.  Children born in 2008 lost a little over a month of
expected life. The drop in expectancy was largely the effect of
increased mortality among the oldest adults -- those at least 85
-- and a rise in age-related ailments such as Alzheimer’s, high
blood pressure, kidney disease, flu and pneumonia, according to
the report. Infant mortality declined, as did deaths among all
age groups under 85.  “It’s hard for us to tell exactly what’s driving this,”
said Arialdi Minino, a statistician at the health center and one
of the report’s authors. The number of older people who died
“has been going up consistently, and in this particular year,
there was a little more of that than we usually see.”  The drop in life expectancy was mostly in the white
population, which fell 73 days, while the rate among black women
was unchanged at 76.8 years, and rose among black men to an all-
time high of 70.2 years. The infant mortality rate fell 2.4
percent to 6.59 deaths for every 1,000 births in 2008.  Possible Effects  “Since the increase in mortality is affecting people who
are above age 85, it may just be there are a lot fewer African-
Americans who make it to that age,” said  Sam Harper , an
epidemiologist at McGill University in Montreal.  Declines are uncommon, occurring about once a decade, said
Harper. The last decrease in life expectancy was in 1993, he
said.  Chronic respiratory diseases, such as asthma and emphysema,
displaced stroke as the third-leading cause of death after
cancer and heart disease.  Chronic respiratory disease may also have risen because the
method of reporting changed at the  World Health Organization ’s
request, said Minino. Until more data come in, it won’t be clear
if the decrease in life expectancy is a statistical hiccup,
Minino said.  Deaths from  stroke  dropped, continuing a consistent decline
that started in 2000, said Minino. Heart disease also declined.  “Both of these conditions have gone down and both are
related to circulatory well-being,” said Minino in a telephone
interview.  The health statistics center is part of the Atlanta-based
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Lopatto  in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 