-- Indian Property IPOs May Stall After Bribery Probe Triggers Stock Decline
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2010-12-09T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/indian-property-ipos-may-stall-after-probe-top-arranger-says.html
India’s busiest quarter for real
estate share sales in three years may falter after a corruption
probe into loans to developers triggered a slide in stocks, the
nation’s top arranger for initial offerings said.  “In the short-term, the real estate industry will face
some headwinds,” said V. Jayasankar, head of equity capital
markets at Kotak Mahindra Capital Co. in Mumbai. “When the
sentiment improves and volatility subsides, the market will
favor companies with strong corporate governance practices.”  India’s  Realty Index  has tumbled 14 percent, the third-
biggest decline among 2,000 global indexes, in the two weeks
since executives from LIC Housing Finance Ltd., a brokerage and
three banks were arrested. Twelve developers led by  Embassy
Property Developments Ltd. , Raheja Universal Ltd. and BPTP Ltd.
have announced plans to raise $3 billion from IPOs as early as
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Property companies also face rising borrowing costs and
shrinking access to credit after the bribery investigation,
according to Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit and
Ambit Capital Pvt. Lenders may cut back on funds to the real
estate industry for the next three to six months, Merrill Lynch
said in a note to clients on Dec. 1.  “Not even one property IPO will happen over the next few
months, probably until March,” said  Samir Arora , founder of
hedge fund Helios Capital Management Pte. in Singapore. “No
lender will want to lend to developers as it may be viewed as
bailing out the companies. Even the mutual fund, qualified
institutional placement route will be shut,” he said, referring
to additional share sales to institutional investors.  Top Ranking  Indian real estate companies led by Morgan Stanley-backed
 Oberoi Realty Ltd.  and Prestige Estates Projects Ltd. raised
22.3 billion rupees ($493 million) so far in the fourth quarter,
the most since the 37 billion rupees raised in the third quarter
of 2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Kotak retained its top ranking arranging all IPOs in a
record year for first-time sales, after helping Indian companies
including Oberoi Reality sell 64.5 billion rupees of stock, the
data show. Enam Securities Pvt. was ranked second ahead of
Morgan Stanley, both unchanged from 2009’s league-table status.  Real estate companies are facing other obstacles.  Hindustan
Construction Co. ’s Lavasa Corp., which is planning a 20 billion
rupee share sale, was ordered to halt work at a hill-top resort
two hours drive from Mumbai and prove it hadn’t breached
planning rules, according to a notification from the environment
ministry on Nov. 26.  The company challenged the ministry’s order in the Bombay
High Court, and said it “appears to stall the IPO of Lavasa.”  Raising Funds  India’s  capital markets  regulator barred the founders of
Sahara Prime City Ltd. and affiliates Sahara India Real Estate
Corp. and Sahara Housing Investment Corp. from raising funds
from the public, according to an order posted on the regulator’s
website on Nov. 24. The group said in a statement the decision
was “very unreasonable and arbitrary” and challenged the
decision in the Allahabad High Court.  The Central Bureau of Investigation said on Nov. 24 it had
arrested eight executives including the chief executive officer
of LIC Housing for allegedly operating a scheme to bribe senior
officials at state-run banks to approve loans and provide
confidential information. The eight were granted bail on Dec. 3.  The investigations have dragged down the broader stock
market, triggering the biggest fall in the Sensitive Index in
more than six months yesterday.  One97 Communications Ltd. , a
mobile-phone technology company partly funded by the venture-
capital arm of  Intel Corp. , postponed next week’s IPO until
January, Chief Financial Officer  Vikas Thapar  said yesterday.  The 13-stock  realty index  declined 30 percent this year
compared with a 10 percent advance in the Sensex. The measure is
trading at 1.2 times book value, down from 1.8 times two months
ago, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “At these valuations I can’t see any IPOs happening unless
someone is very desperate,” said Mumbai-based analyst  Parikshit Kandpal  at Ambit Capital. “There is a huge gap between the
valuations developers were seeking and the valuations in the
listed space now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pooja Thakur  in Mumbai at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 Apapuc1@bloomberg.net  