-- India Cotton Output May Miss Estimate, Reduce Exports
-- B y   T h o m a s   K u t t y   A b r a h a m
-- 2010-12-09T09:37:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/india-cotton-output-may-miss-estimate-on-rain-mill-group-says.html
Cotton output in India, the world’s
second-biggest grower and exporter, may miss an earlier estimate
because of unseasonal rainfall in the main producing regions, a
textile mills group said.  Output in the year started Oct. 1 may be 29.5 million to 30
million bales of 170 kilograms each, compared with 32.5 million
bales estimated by the  Cotton Advisory Board ,  D.K. Nair ,
secretary general of the Confederation of Indian Textiles
Industry, said in a phone interview from New Delhi today.  A lower crop may prompt India to retain restrictions on
exports, bolstering global prices that have rallied 72 percent
this year. Cotton reached $1.5195 on Nov. 10, the highest price
since trading began 140 years ago, as adverse weather damaged
crops in China, Pakistan and the U.S.  “There’s a near-consensus that the crop will be below 30
million bales this year after the unseasonal rains and floods in
some areas,” Nair said. “A lower crop should prompt a review
of the surplus availability and the export strategy.”  India’s textiles ministry Oct. 11 halted registration of
new export contracts after it got applications to ship 5.5
million bales, the maximum permissible this year. Louis Dreyfus
Commodities, the top trader of cotton, and Cargill Inc. are
among companies that won permits.  Shipments Capped  There may not be more than 3 million bales available for
export as rains last month in Gujarat, Maharashtra and Andhra
Pradesh, the biggest growers, damaged crops, Nair said.
Shipments may total 2.5 million bales, less than 5.24 million
bales permitted by the  Textiles Ministry  for export by Dec. 15,
Nair said.  The South Asian nation, a major supplier of cotton to
China, will cap shipments of yarn at 720,000 metric tons in the
year started Oct. 1 to bolster domestic supplies, the government
said last week.  “There has to be some predictability about government
policy related to cotton,” Nair said. “Any review of export
policy should be based on actual crop size.”  Futures for March delivery fell 1.7 percent to $1.3002 a
pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New York today. The commodity is
set for its biggest annual gain since 1973, according to
Bloomberg data.  Demand in China is forecast to outpace supply by 17 million
bales in the year ending July 31, the U.S. Department of
Agriculture forecast on Nov. 9. Stockpiles in the U.S. are
predicted to fall to 2.2 million bales this season, down 25
percent from 2.95 million last year. A bale in the U.S. weighs
about 480 pounds, or 218 kilograms.  Consumer Resistance  “Global availability isn’t likely to improve anytime soon
and that may be seen as supportive for prices,” Nair said.
“But prices have reached a peak where consumer resistance will
come into play,” he said.  Cotton arrivals in India this year have lagged behind last
year’s levels after rain slowed harvests in the main growing
region. Arrivals were 7.02 million bales by Dec. 5, compared
with 7.21 million a year ago, Cotton Corp. of India said Dec. 6.  India’s post-monsoon rainfall in October and November was
17 percent higher than the level deemed normal for that time of
the year, according to the weather department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Kutty Abraham  in Mumbai at 
 tabraham4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@Bloomberg.net . 