-- India's Sensex Declines Most Since May as Probes Jolt Investor Confidence
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2010-12-09T12:07:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/india-s-sensex-index-falls-state-bank-leads-retreat-by-lenders.html
India’s stocks slumped, dragging down
the benchmark index by the most in more than six months amid
speculation a series of graft probes will be widened.  Reliance Communications Ltd., the second-biggest mobile
phone operator, sank to a record low. State Bank of India, the
nation’s largest, dropped for a sixth day to its lowest level in
almost four months. The government is expanding investigations
into the issuing of mobile-phone licenses. ET Now channel
yesterday reported on probes into share-price manipulation.
Neither company has been implicated in the investigations.  “Investors are selling stocks as confidence in the
financial sector has taken a jolt,” said  Saibal Ghosh , who
manages about $100 million in equities as chief investment
officer at Aegon Religare Life Insurance Co. “The trust factor
has taken a hit.”  The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index, or  Sensex ,
declined 454.12, or 2.3 percent, to 19,242.36 as all but three
of its members fell. The gauge sank the most since May 25.
Companies in the index are valued at an average 18.2 times
estimated profit, the lowest level in about two weeks.  The S&P CNX  Nifty  Index on the National Stock Exchange slid
2.3 percent to 5,766.50, while the  BSE 200 Index  dropped 2.7
percent to 2,386.93. The BSE Small-Cap Index sank 5.7 percent to
8,767.49, the most since June 2009.  Reliance Communications  fell for a fifth day, losing 5.6
percent to 122.25 rupees. Unitech Ltd., a real-estate company
that has a phone venture with Telenor ASA, tumbled 6.3 percent
to 60.95 rupees. Both Indian companies have previously said they
are cooperating in an investigation into the sale of licenses at
below market rates.  ‘Panic Selling’  “Its panic-selling across the board driven by margin
calls,” said  Premal Sanghvi , a stock broker at K.H. Securities
in Mumbai. “Appetite for risk has vanished.”  India’s federal investigators yesterday searched homes of
former telecommunications minister  Andimuthu Raja , who is at the
center of the license-sale probe. Separately, in the past month,
federal investigators have ensnared eight executives at the
nation’s biggest life insurer, a brokerage and three state-run
banks in a housing-loan probe and detained organizers of the
$4.6 billion Commonwealth Games for misusage of public funds.  State Bank declined 4.2 percent to 2,686.9 rupees, its
lowest close since Aug. 11. ICICI Bank Ltd., India’s second-
largest, dropped 4.4 percent to 1,058.3 rupees. All 14 members
of the Bombay Stock Exchange  Bankex Index  retreated as the
measure fell the most since May.  Ruchi Soya, KS Oils  Ruchi Soya Industries Ltd. sank 7 percent to 83 rupees,
extending yesterday’s 28 percent slide, while  KS Oils Ltd. 
tumbled 10 percent to 30.6 rupees, capping a two-day loss of 24
percent. ET Now channel yesterday reported that the government’s
Intelligence Bureau suspects price-manipulation in the shares of
the Indian processors of edible oils.  Onkar Kedia , a spokesman for the Home Ministry, which
oversees the bureau, declined to comment. N. Hariharan,
spokesman for the market regulator, didn’t respond to text
messages sent to his mobile phone. Ruchi Soya won’t comment on
share-price movements, according to a statement to the Bombay
Stock Exchange today.  Overseas  investors  sold a net  4.2 billion rupees  ($93.6
million) of Indian shares on Dec. 7, paring this year’s record
inflows in equity to 1.335 trillion rupees, according to data on
the  website  of the Securities and Exchange Board of India.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shikhar Balwani  in Mumbai 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 