-- India Raids Ex-Minister's Home as Corruption Focus Moves Beyond $11 Bribes
-- B y   M e h u l   S r i v a s t a v a
-- 2010-12-09T06:58:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/india-raids-ex-minister-s-home-as-corruption-focus-moves-beyond-11-bribes.html
News photographers climbed walls and
passersby gawked as officers from India’s  Central Bureau of
Investigation  searched for clues yesterday in a $31 billion
probe at the government-issued bungalow of ex-Telecommunications
Minister  Andimuthu Raja  in New Delhi.  In Mumbai, packaging company  Uflex Ltd.  completed a  33
percent  two-day slide after Chairman  Ashok Chaturvedi  was
convicted in a separate land allotment investigation carried out
by the CBI, India’s federal anti-corruption agency.  The high-profile cases may bolster the graft-busting
credentials of an agency that lists an $11 bribe as one of its
most important convictions and was criticized by the Supreme
Court for inaction in the telecom probe. Corruption and
bureaucratic inefficiency help make India the  riskiest country
in Asia  for investors, according to this year’s survey by Hong
Kong-based  Political & Economic Risk Consultancy Ltd .  “Without convictions, and a powerful and effective anti-
corruption agency, corruption remains a low-risk and high reward
proposition in India,” consultant  Jon Quah  said in a telephone
interview from Singapore, where he works with Asian governments
and the  United Nations  on corruption-related issues. “If the
incumbent government is not committed in curbing corruption, the
‘big fish’ or rich and powerful are usually protected from
investigation and conviction.”  In the past month, federal investigators have ensnared
eight executives at the nation’s biggest life insurer, a
brokerage and three state-run banks in a housing-loan probe and
detained organizers of the $4.6 billion Commonwealth Games for
misappropriation of public funds.  Household Names  Still, the CBI has yet to secure convictions of political
leaders in any of the cases that are household names in India
including the so-called Fodder Scam, a 25-year probe into the
theft of $215 million from the animal husbandry budget of Bihar
state, and the 24-year investigation into the Bofors defense
contract in which then-Prime Minister  Rajiv Gandhi  was
investigated, according to S. S. Gill, a retired Indian civil
servant, and the author of the Harper-Collins 1999 book
“Pathology of Corruption.” Gandhi was posthumously  cleared of
bribery charges  by the Delhi High Court in 2004.  “In all of these famous cases, there hasn’t been a
conviction of a single major political or national figure,”
wrote Gill. “There cannot be a stronger indictment of the
Bureau.”  More Corrupt  Some 74 percent of Indians believe that the country has
gotten more corrupt in the past three years, and only a quarter
feel that the Singh government has been effective in fighting
graft, according to  Transparency International’s 2010 Global
Corruption Barometer . Indians consider political parties to be
the most corrupt institutions in the country, the report,
released in Berlin today found.  CBI spokesman R. K. Gaur did not respond to a list of e-
mailed questions. CBI officials declined to comment on details
of documents they described as “incriminating” seized from
Raja’s two residences yesterday and from 12 other locations,
including the houses of his former personal secretary, three
other ex-officials in the telecommunications department and a
managing director of a Chennai-based export agency.  The CBI raids on Raja, an ally of Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s Congress Party, fall short of opposition lawmaker
demands for an all-party probe into the telecom case that has
stalled parliament for a month, blocking legislation on land
reform, mining and banking.  ‘Lacked Transparency’  Raja, 47, has denied any wrongdoing in the 2008 sale of
mobile-phone licenses that “lacked transparency and was
undertaken in an arbitrary, unfair and inequitable manner,”
costing India as much as $31 billion, according to the
Comptroller and Auditor General of India.  Telenor ASA , based in Fornebu, Norway, and Emirates
Telecommunications Corp., the United Arab Emirates’ largest
phone company, were among operators that purchased stakes in
Indian companies the auditor said weren’t qualified for the
licenses.  The investigations checked gains in the world’s best
performing major stock market this year, sending the Sensitive
Index  down  7 percent since reaching a record on Nov. 5. While
India is Asia’s second fastest-growing economy, growth could
accelerate by as much as half a percentage point if it reduced
corruption to  South Korean levels , according to a 2007  analysis 
published by the  Washington-based Cato Institute , a policy
research group favoring free markets.  ‘Investors Aren’t Dumb’  “Investors aren’t dumb - it’s not like they don’t know
these things (corruption) are happening in India,” said  Samir Arora , founder of hedge fund Helios Capital Management Pte. in
Singapore. “But other than in telecom, the scale of these
investigations has not shaken the overall super confidence in
India - ten guys in ten companies taking $10,000 bribes doesn’t
really mean anything.”  Prime Minister Singh vowed Nov 21 that any wrong-doers
would “be brought to book,” while declining demands from
opposition lawmakers for a deeper probe. The Supreme Court
yesterday asked the government to form a special court because
of the magnitude of the alleged offense.  “With these investigations, you get a lot of political
theater,” said Michael Johnston, a professor of political
science at Hamilton, New York-based Colgate University, who has
studied corruption in Asia. “In Indian politics, more pieces
are in motion, things are changing so rapidly, and the political
picture gives a lot of leverage to minor and regional parties.”  Conviction Rate  The CBI, with a 2010 budget of $83 million, has a
conviction rate of as high as 70 percent, “comparable to the
best investigation agencies in the world,” according to its
website. Those included a telephone lineman in Mumbai who was
sentenced to 3 years rigorous imprisonment for taking a $11
bribe to install a phone line, and a Union Bank of India clerk
who was sentenced to jail for two years for accepting a $109
bribe, according to an Oct 2009 listing of important
convictions.  India spent about 28 cents per capita fighting corruption
in 2005, while Hong Kong spent $12.14, said Quah, a former
National University of Singapore professor.  The CBI had 9,636 cases pending trial at the end of 2009,
yet more than one-third of the positions in its prosecution
department were vacant, according to its 2009 annual report.  Even if investigations drag on and don’t necessarily result
in convictions, the publicity and temporary arrests of the
accused are helpful, Paramjit Bawa, the Chairman of Transparency
International India, said in an interview.  “Being put behind bars, even if for a little while, is a
punishment in itself,” said Bawa. “You were once on a high
pedestal, and now you’ve toppled from it by a process of law.”  To contact the reporters on this story:  Mehul Srivastava  in New
Delhi at   msrivastava6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bret Okeson at 
 bokeson@bloomberg.net  