-- Infineon Says Sales Goal May Be Conservative on Unusual Demand
-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 2010-12-09T16:25:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/infineon-ceo-says-sales-goal-may-be-conservative-on-unusual-strong-demand.html
Infineon Technologies AG  Chief
Executive Officer  Peter Bauer  said the sales target for the
current fiscal year may be “conservative” as Europe’s second-
largest chipmaker is awash with orders.  “If the overall economy remains strong, then yes our
assumption might be a bit conservative,” Bauer said today in an
interview at the company’s headquarters in  Neubiberg , south of
Munich. “But being cautious is not bad at this point in time,
given that no one knows what is going to happen with the overall
economy in the second half of the year.”  Infineon, whose chips go into cars, mobile phones and other
electronic devices, is benefitting like its rivals from higher
demand following the economic slowdown, which hurt sales and
profit in fiscal 2009. The company on Nov. 16 said sales in the
12 months through September 2011 may grow by close to 10
percent, assuming an exchange rate of $1.40 for the euro.  “Infineon delivered an impressive turnaround as the
company went from being one of the worst-performing big German
companies to a fast-growing, profitable and stable business,”
said  Boris Boehm , who helps manage 1 billion euros ($1.32
billion) at Aramea Asset Management in Hamburg, including
Infineon shares “‘They’re now in the right markets and have the
right management.”  Capital Expenditure  Bauer said today he’s now more optimistic about the current
quarter than one or two months ago, after the weakening of the
euro and a “very strong order pattern” for the industrial and
multimarket unit.  Infineon  said last month it expected revenue for the first
quarter of fiscal 2011 to be flat or down slightly compared with
the fourth quarter depending on foreign exchange rates.  “Infineon seems to enjoy either very good market share
gains or a very robust portfolio at the moment with regard to
the overall market situation,” Bauer said today.  To meet demand, which currently outstrips production
capacity, the company said in November that it would raise
capital expenditure in fiscal 2011 to 550 million euros from 325
million euros in 2010. This will be equivalent to between 13
percent and 15 percent of sales this year, Bauer said today.
Next year, capital expenditure will likely remain at the same
level, and then stabilize at about 10 percent in the long term,
he said.  Revenue Growth  Revenue from continuing operations grew by 51 percent in
the year ending Sept. 30, reflecting the recovery of the
semiconductor industry since the economic crisis.  Infineon  is a
different company now, with the disposal of the restructured
wireless unit to  Intel Corp . marking a shift toward more stable
businesses.  Before the Intel deal, Infineon disposed of its
unprofitable Qimonda memory-chip unit to reduce its dependence
on markets with volatile demand and prices. Infineon was itself
sold by  Siemens AG , Europe’s largest engineering company, in an
initial public offering in March 2000. Munich-based Siemens sold
its remaining Infineon shares in March 2006.  Bauer said today he sees “no slowdown” at the automotive
unit, and the industrial unit has “terrific opportunities.”
Infineon also has a smaller security and chip card unit.  Infineon has the ear of companies from  Audi AG  to China’s
Chery Inc. that are looking to safely replace more expensive
mechanical parts. The automotive chip market is set to grow to
$26.3 billion in 2014 from as much as $15.1 billion last year, a
compound annual growth rate of about 12 percent, according to
researcher iSuppli. Infineon expects chip content in each car to
rise to $333 in 2016 from $251 in 2008.  Acquisition Strategy  “We’re happy with our portfolio,” Bauer said today.
“Energy-efficiency, mobility and security are wide enough
market spaces in order to grow for the next 15 or even 20
years.”  Bauer isn’t in a “hunting modus” for acquisition targets.
There isn’t a trend for consolidation, so he’s not concerned
that someone will snatch “the nicest brides,” Bauer said.  Growing by acquisitions is “risky” and is only a means to
gain big advances in technology, Bauer said. “I’m less and less
worried about takeover situations,” he said. “If you look at
the current share price, Infineon is kind of a big fish.”  The stock has risen 79 percent this year, giving the
company a market value of 7.56 billion euros.  Infineon said last month it planned a dividend of 10 euro
cents for the past fiscal year, the company’s first dividend in
a decade.  “The  dividend  is a demonstration that Infineon has a
stable business model now,” Bauer said. Shareholders shouldn’t
expect “astronomical” dividend payouts, he added.  Infineon will start buying back shares if shareholders
approve it at the annual general meeting in February, and it
will keep cash on the balance sheet for a longer period “to
make use of opportunities which I can’t identify now or
immediately,” Bauer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ragnhild Kjetland  in Frankfurt at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net  