-- Inflation Surprise May Spur Commodities to Outperform, Credit Suisse Says
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2010-12-09T21:17:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/inflation-surprise-may-spur-commodities-to-outperform-credit-suisse-says.html
A period of “unexpected” global
inflation may mean that commodities will outperform stocks and
bonds, according to Credit Suisse Asset Management.  “As new inflationary environments develop around the
world, they will likely be unexpected,”  Nelson Louie , the
firm’s global head of commodities, and portfolio manager
 Christopher Burton  wrote in a report. Raw materials “tend to be
more highly correlated to periods of unexpected inflation” than
equities or debt assets.  It’s unclear if the Federal Reserve’s plan to buy
government bonds will spur inflation, or if high unemployment,
idle industrial capacity and deleveraging will stoke deflation,
a period of widespread price declines, said Louie and Burton,
who together manage $7 billion for the firm.  “No matter which of the two forces prevails in developed
economies, one thing appears clear, the inflationary outcome is
likely to be ‘unexpected,’” the firm said. “This creates a
compelling case” for commodities.  Raw materials outperform equities by almost 3 percentage
points “in periods of extreme, high unexpected inflation,”
Credit Suisse said. Commodities “inherently rise with”
climbing consumer prices, Louie and Burton said.  Stocks and bonds often perform better when inflation is
stable or slowing, “usually because the market has already
discounted the impact of expected inflation,” the bank said.
These assets are most at risk when “prices change
unexpectedly.”  Commodities may also be supported by demand in emerging
markets, which have been “strong buyers of industrial metals
and agricultural products,” Credit Suisse said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  