-- U.S. Initial Jobless Claims Fell 17,000 to 421,000 Last Week
-- B y   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n
-- 2010-12-09T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/initial-u-s-jobless-claims-fell-more-than-estimated-to-421-000-last-week.html
The number of workers filing first-
time claims for unemployment insurance payments fell last week
in the U.S., showing the labor market continues to improve.  Applications for  jobless benefits  decreased to 421,000, in
line with the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News, from a revised 438,000 the prior week, Labor
Department figures showed today. The four-week  moving average , a
less-volatile measure, dropped to the lowest level in more than
two years.  Companies are holding on to more workers as sales improve
and expectations for growth brighten. A faster pace of growth is
needed for firms to add enough jobs to bring down the November
 unemployment rate  of 9.8 percent, the highest since April, and
alleviate concerns of policy makers including Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke.  “Companies are maintaining very, very lean staffing
levels,” Neil Dutta, an economist at Bank of America Merrill
Lynch Global Research in New York, said before the report. “It
would take a big shock for companies to significantly increase
firings but at the same time, they’re not hiring.”  Economists forecast claims would fall to 425,000, according
to the median of 50 projections in a Bloomberg News survey.
Estimates ranged from 394,000 to 445,000.  A Labor Department official said there were no special
factors that had an impact on the figures released today.
The four-week moving average fell to 427,500, the lowest since
August 2008, from 431,500.  Jobless Benefits  The number of people  continuing  to collect jobless benefits
fell by 191,000 in the week ended Nov. 27 to 4.09 million. They
were forecast to fall to 4.24 million.  The continuing claims figure does not include the number of
workers receiving extended benefits under federal programs.  Those who’ve used up their traditional benefits and are now
collecting emergency and extended payments decreased by about
393,200 to 4.51 million in the week ended Nov. 20.  The Obama administration on Dec. 6 announced an agreement
with congressional Republicans to extend Bush-era tax cuts,
reduce the payroll tax and fund unemployment insurance for the
long-term jobless for 13 months. Under current legislation, the
extension in emergency benefits expired Nov. 30, which the Labor
Department has estimated would interrupt aid to 1.36 million
before the last week of 2010.  The unemployment rate among people eligible for benefits,
which tends to track the jobless rate, dropped to 3.2 percent in
the week ended Nov. 27, the lowest in two years, today’s report
showed. Sixteen states and territories reported an increase in
claims, while 37 had a decrease.  Weekly Firings  Initial jobless claims reflect weekly firings and tend to
fall as job growth -- measured by the monthly non-farm payrolls
report -- accelerates. That relationship has broken down in
recent months as some companies cut staff and others expand --
pointing to an uneven recovery.  The U.S. added 39,000 jobs in November, fewer than
forecast, the Labor Department reported Dec. 3.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has been among
those saying the recovery has been too slow, keeping
unemployment too high.  “At the rate we’re going, it could be four, five years
before we are back to a more normal unemployment rate” of about
5 percent to 6 percent, Bernanke said in an interview broadcast
Dec. 5 by CBS Corp.’s “60 Minutes” program.  The economy hasn’t grown to the point where demand can’t be
met with current staff at Illinois Tool Works Inc., chief
executive officer  David Speer  said in an interview on Dec. 3.  Next year “there will be some modest level of improvement
in employment in industrial manufacturing in the U.S.,” Speer
said. “I don’t think anything significant for us, because I
still see us with enough capacity in terms of labor right now to
not have to make any significant additions.”  ITW, the maker of Hobart food mixers and Duo-Fast nail
guns, may do more hiring in 2012 if “we progress as I suspect
we will,” Speer said. The company last week forecast business
revenue, which doesn’t include sales from acquired companies,
will increase 5 percent to 7 percent in 2011 over this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Courtney Schlisserman in Washington at 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  