-- Lions Gate Director Can Vote Shares Next Week as Carl Icahn Loses Ruling
-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 2010-12-10T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/lions-gate-entertainment-says-proxy-advisers-reject-icahn-s-board-nominees.html
A  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. 
board member can vote shares he acquired in a deal that diluted
the stake of billionaire investor  Carl Icahn , who is making a
hostile bid for the film studio, a New York judge ruled.  Icahn , seeking the election of five directors he nominated
to the Lions Gate board, asked the court to block director  Mark Rachesky  from voting the shares he acquired on July 20 at the
independent film studio’s Dec. 14 annual meeting. New York state
Supreme Court Justice  James Yates  yesterday denied Icahn’s
request for a preliminary injunction.  Icahn, 74, who is attempting to buy the studio for $7.50 a
share, sued Vancouver-based Lions Gate in Canada and New York in
July to reverse an equity-for-debt swap that increased
Rachesky’s stake to almost 29 percent. Icahn argued that
management conspired with large shareholders to thwart his bid.
He owns about 33.5 percent.  The denial of the motion will permit existing shareholders
to vote on Dec. 14 “while giving Icahn, if he loses the proxy
fight on that day, and should he prevail in the ensuing
litigation, an opportunity for a new election” with the votes
to be counted in less than 10 months as sought, Yates wrote in
his ruling.  Shareholder Meeting  The judge said an important factor in his determination was
that Lions Gate’s lawyers told him another shareholder’s meeting
would be held in September 2011.  Icahn said in a Dec. 6 interview that he needed a favorable
ruling to prevail at next week’s shareholders’ meeting.  “We need the court’s ruling,” Icahn said. “If we get
that, Rachesky will go down from 29 percent to 20 percent.”  An attorney for Icahn,  Joseph DiBenedetto , declined to
comment after the decision was released.  Lions Gate said in a statement that it was pleased with the
ruling and believes “the transaction, which resulted in the
reduction of Lions Gate debt by approximately $100 million,
supported the best interests of the company.”  Attorney  Andrew Rossman , who represents Rachesky, said in a
phone interview, “We look forward to the annual meeting.”  The British Columbia Supreme Court on Nov. 1 dismissed
Icahn’s Canadian suit and he has appealed. Lions Gate told the
New York judge the Canadian ruling supports its motion to
dismiss the New York case and said there was no reasonable basis
for a court order against Rachesky. Yates didn’t rule yesterday
on the motion to dismiss.  New Shares  In July, Lions Gate issued new  shares  to Rachesky’s MHR
Fund Management LLC, putting 12 percent more of the stock in
friendly hands and diluting Icahn’s holding.  Rachesky increased his stake by about 16 million shares by
purchasing $100 million of notes from Kornitzer Capital
Management and then exchanging them for stock. Icahn has called
the transaction a “sham.”  The impetus behind the immediate request for relief is an
effort to elect five Icahn-nominated directors to the 12-person
board of directors, the judge said in his decision.  If the Lions Gate position is vindicated in the suit, Yates
wrote, “a preliminary injunction will have altered the board
composition and management structure at a critical time in the
company’s existence.”  Icahn’s five nominees include Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc.
Chief Operating Officer  Chris McGurk  and Jay Firestone, the
founder of Toronto-based film and television producer Prodigy
Pictures.  Lions Gate re-nominated its board with one exception.  Proxy Firms  Two proxy advisory firms rejected Icahn’s plan to put five
directors on the board, Lions Gate said in a statement
yesterday. Glass Lewis & Co. rejected all of Icahn’s nominees,
and Institutional Shareholder Services advised shareholders to
vote against Icahn’s effort to gain control of the board at the
annual meeting, the studio said.  Institutional Shareholder Services told Lions Gate
shareholders to support three of Icahn’s nominees. Icahn said in
a separate statement that support shows it “shares our belief
that change is needed at Lions Gate.”  Icahn said in a Nov. 2 court filing that he owns
$596 million in MGM, the studio now in streamlined bankruptcy
proceedings. A merger of the studios “makes a lot of sense,”
he said on Dec. 6.  Lions Gate, distributor the “Saw” horror films and
producer of the Emmy-winning “Mad Men” TV series, announced
the Rachesky deal days after a 10-day truce with Icahn expired.  Icahn, the billionaire chairman of New York-based Icahn
Enterprises LP, sued Lions Gate in New York on July 26.  Lions Gate is based in Vancouver and run from Santa Monica,
California.  The case is Icahn v. Lions Gate, 651076/2010, New York
state Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan). 