-- Shulman Says IRS `Seriously Considering' New Amnesty for Offshore Accounts
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2010-12-09T22:38:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/irs-seriously-considering-second-amnesty-program-for-offshore-accounts.html
The U.S.  Internal Revenue Service  is
“seriously considering” a new partial amnesty program for
taxpayers who report secret offshore bank accounts, Commissioner
 Douglas Shulman  said today.  Shulman said the IRS may repeat a voluntary disclosure
program such as one that drew nearly 15,000 taxpayers between
March 2009 and October 2009. They avoided prosecution by
declaring accounts and paying fixed penalties. Since then,
another 3,000 taxpayers declared accounts and face undetermined
penalties.  The IRS began the program amid a crackdown on offshore tax
evasion fostered by  UBS AG , Switzerland’s largest bank. Over the
past year, the IRS has sought to expand its crackdown around the
world. Shulman said a new amnesty program would not be as
enticing financially.  “Given its success, we are seriously considering another
special offshore voluntary disclosure program,” Shulman said
today at a tax conference in Washington. “However, there will
be some fundamental differences. Taxpayers will not get the same
deal as those who came in under the original program.”  Until October 2009, participants avoided prosecution by
paying taxes for six years on undeclared income and a 20 percent
penalty on those taxes. They also had to pay 20 percent of the
highest value of undisclosed accounts over those six years.
Without the amnesty, taxpayers face penalties of as much as 75
percent on evaded taxes and 50 percent on undeclared accounts.  Tax lawyers applauded the announcement.  ‘Delighted’  “Criminal tax practitioners are delighted that there will
be some certainty in the penalties assessed,” said  Lawrence Horn  of Sills Cummis & Gross in Newark, New Jersey. “People
know they’ll get amnesty from prosecution, but now they’ll also
know the civil penalty cost.”  While the first program was a success, “many thousands of
additional taxpayers would likely come forward under a new
program, returning those taxpayers and billions of dollars to
the system to be taxed,” said  Mark Matthews  of Morgan, Lewis &
Bockius LLP in Washington and a former chief of the IRS’s
criminal investigation division.  As part of a U.S. crackdown, at least two dozen UBS
clients, bankers or advisers have been charged with tax crimes.
Zurich-based UBS avoided U.S. prosecution in February 2009 by
paying $780 million, turning over the names of U.S. account
holders and saying it helped Americans hide assets from the IRS.  The 18,000 taxpayers who made voluntary disclosures had to
identify their foreign banks, the names of bankers and advisers,
and contact information for those who handled their money.  ‘Vast Quantity of Data’  “We have been scouring the vast quantity of data” from
voluntary disclosure applicants and other sources, Shulman said.  “This information has already proved invaluable in
supplementing and corroborating prior leads, as well as
developing new leads, involving numerous banks, advisers and
promoters from around the world, including Asia and the Middle
East,” Shulman said, according to prepared remarks.  Tax attorney William Sharp said the IRS crackdown is
starting to ripple through tax havens.  “It is clear that not only that Swiss financial
institutions but all the other offshore financial centers like
Luxembourg, Dubai and Singapore are paying attention,” Sharp,
of Sharp & Kemm in Tampa, Florida, said.  Matthews said penalties in a voluntary program that
approach 50 percent won’t generate many disclosures.  ‘Wiped Out’  “When you also consider back taxes, penalty and interest,
many of the accounts would be entirely wiped out,” he said.
“That would be a more difficult program to sell to clients,
many of whom would be fearful of an inability to pay the full
penalty.”  Scott Michel , a partner in the Washington office of Caplin
& Drysdale who helped dozens of clients make voluntary
disclosures in the first initiative, said the new program should
acknowledge that many Americans with offshore accounts didn’t
intend to violate U.S. tax law and had “technical compliance
issues.”  Taxpayers will come forward even with higher penalties if
they fear getting caught, said  Barbara Kaplan , head of the tax
department at the Greenberg Traurig law firm in New York.  “Some will also do it so they can sleep at night,” Kaplan
said. “Those who sit on the sideline and sleep fine at night
may stay there if they feel there is only a remote possibility
that another institution will out them.”  The initial voluntary disclosure program wasn’t open to
taxpayers who already were under scrutiny by the IRS.  Shulman said in November that the closed cases under the
previous program generated an average of more than $200,000 in
revenue for the Treasury.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Richard Rubin  in Washington at 
 Rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;  David Voreacos  in Newark, New Jersey, at
   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net .
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 