-- SPDR Gold Put Options Beating Right-to-Buy Options
-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e   a n d   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2010-12-09T11:29:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/ishares-silver-trust-put-option-volume-highest-in-almost-month.html
Put-option volumes linked to the  SPDR
Gold Trust , the biggest exchange-traded fund backed by bullion,
exceeded trading in call options for the first time in more than
two weeks, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Volume  in the put options, which give the holder the right
to sell the stock at a set price and date, rose to 192,122
contracts yesterday, the highest level since Nov. 12. Trading
exceeded call options, giving the holder the right to buy, for
two consecutive days, the data show.  Gold futures traded in New York reached a record $1,432.50
an ounce on Dec. 7 and fell 3.3 percent since then, paring this
year’s gains to 26 percent. The most widely held option on those
futures gives holders the right to buy gold at $2,000 by
November next year.  “The market view of lower prices until year-end is
certainly reflected in the recent days’ options trading behavior
by favoring short-term puts over calls,” said  Bayram Dincer , an
analyst at LGT Capital Management in Pfaeffikon, Switzerland.
“This does not come as a surprise, as the breakout of gold and
the new all-time-highs were not sustainable in the short run.”  Gold is heading for the 10th straight annual gain, after
governments spent trillions of dollars and kept borrowing costs
low to boost economies hurt by the most severe global recession
since World War II. The metal has outperformed global equities,
U.S. Treasuries, and most industrial metals this year.  Silver Options  Trading in put options on the  iShares Silver Trust , the
biggest exchange-traded fund backed by silver, rose to its
highest in almost a month. Volume reached 201,381 on Dec. 7, the
most since Nov. 9, and 160,593 yesterday.  Volume in call options, giving the holder the right to buy,
exceeded trading in put options on both days and has done so
since Nov. 17, the data show.  Silver futures traded in New York reached a 30-year high of
$30.75 an ounce on Dec. 7 and declined 7.1 percent since then,
paring this year’s gain to 70 percent. The most widely held
option on those futures gives holders the right to sell silver
at $15 by February next year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stuart Wallace in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter in London at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  