-- Italian Treasury Has More Than $40 Billion in Reserves, Debt Chief Says
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2010-12-09T15:29:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/italian-reserves-will-exceed-40-billion-by-end-of-year-debt-chief-says.html
The Italian Treasury will begin 2011
with more than 30 billion euros ($40 billion) in reserves to
provide a cushion amid debt-market volatility, said  Maria Cannata , the Finance Ministry’s director of public debt.  “At the beginning of 2010 it was over 30 billion and at
the end of this year it will be probably higher, for sure not
less,” Cannata said in an interview today in Rome. “This will
allow us to be very comfortable at the beginning of 2011, when
there are fewer redemptions than in 2010.”  Italy expects to sell between 220 billion euros and 230
billion euros of bonds next year and faces redemptions of 164
billion euros, about 10 billion euros less than this year, said
Cannata, manager of Europe’s biggest debt load in nominal terms.  Investors pushed the  yield premium  demanded to hold Italian
10-year bonds over German bunds to a euro-era high last month
after Ireland agreed to a bailout, hurting the bonds of Europe’s
other high-debt nations. Italy’s strategy of extending the
average maturity of its debt has helped limit the impact of the
wider spreads on borrowing costs, which should be about 70
billion euros in 2010, in line with its initial target.  Even with the market turmoil this year, Italy managed to
reduce the amount of treasury bills in its financing mix,
helping extend the average maturity on its debt to more than
seven years. Treasury bills now account for less than 10 percent
of total borrowing, something that hasn’t happened “in a long
time,” said Cannata.  Risk Premium  The  yield premium  investors demand to hold Italian 10-year
debt over comparable German bunds rose 3 basis points today to
156 basis points. That spread reached a euro-era high of 212
basis points on Nov. 30. Little of that risk premium was due to
political instability, Cannata said, even as Prime Minister
 Silvio Berlusconi  fights for his political survival.  The premier faces a no-confidence vote on Dec. 14 that may
topple his government and usher in a period of political turmoil
as opposition parties try to cobble together an alternative or
the country holds early elections two years ahead of schedule.  The government has already passed its 2011 budget plan,
which aims to reduce the budget deficit to 3.9 percent of GDP,
limiting the impact of the possible fall of the government on
public accounts, she said.  Deficit Declining  “In Italy, there isn’t the perception that political risk
in the short or medium term is going to harm the public
accounts,” she said. “Clearly, if there is a longer crisis,
like we have seen in Belgium, something more than six months or
a year, that could impede the government from taking any needed
initiatives to support the economy.”  Italy has fared better than some of the other so-called
peripheral countries in the aftermath of Greece’s near-default
in May. The government didn’t engage in the kind of stimulus
spending that inflated Spain’s deficit and the country’s banks
are solid. As a result, the Berlusconi government has not had to
adopt the kind of austerity measures seen in Greece, Ireland and
Spain that are deepening recessions in those countries.  Italy’s debt reached 1.76 trillion euros last year, more
than that of Spain, Portugal, Ireland and Greece combined. At
116 percent of gross domestic product, it’s the second largest
by that measure after Greece. The Treasury tends to sell bonds
and bills four to five times a month and the country spends
almost 5 percent of GDP servicing its borrowing.  Main Risk  The biggest risk of contagion spreading to Italy comes from
the country’s debt rather than its deficit, said Cannata, who
recently completed her 10th year as head of Italy’s debt agency.  “Italy has a large debt,” she said. “This is the
weakness of our country. Any country with a high debt is always
perceived as being more susceptible” to market turmoil.  Italian Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti  has backed the
idea of European Union countries jointly selling euro-
denominated bonds to better share risk and reduce financing
costs. Cannata said broad political support and “quite a large
amount of work” would be needed to implement such debt sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lorenzo Totaro  in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;
 Elisa Martinuzzi  at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  