-- Japan May Offer $210 Million Loan for Florida High-Speed Train to Help Bid
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2010-12-09T02:02:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/japan-may-offer-210-million-loan-for-florida-high-speed-train.html
Japan may offer as much as $210
million in loans to help pay for a Florida high-speed railway as
a Central Japan Railway Co.-led group competes against Asian and
European companies to build the first U.S. bullet-train line.  State-owned  Japan Bank for International Cooperation  may
lend as much as 60 percent of the Florida project’s overall
funding shortfall as part of JR Central’s bid, Tadashi Maeda,
head of corporate planning, said in an interview in Tokyo
yesterday. The project has a funding gap of about $350 million,
according to  Florida Rail Enterprise , the state agency
responsible for it.  Japan’s offer may help JR Central compete for the $2.7
billion Florida contract against possible bids from  Alstom SA ,
 Siemens AG , South Korea’s  Hyundai Rotem Co.  and a venture
between General Electric Co. and China’s  CSR Corp.  Florida Rail
is due to release bidding details for the line, linking Tampa
and Orlando, as early as this month, said Chief Operating
Officer Nazih Haddad.  “Government support is vital for getting this kind of big
contract,” said  Masayuki Kubota , who oversees the equivalent of
$1.9 billion in assets in Tokyo at Daiwa SB Investments Ltd.
“Any big project has its own risk, but I think JR Central will
manage the risk properly.”  JBIC may consider taking an equity stake in the Florida
project, said Maeda. It isn’t planning to ask the U.S.
government to guarantee any loan, he said.  Kinya Tani, a spokesman for Nagoya-based JR Central, parent
of Japan’s largest bullet-train maker, declined to comment on
how much funding the company may need for a Florida bid.  Construction Plan  The state is looking for bidders to design, build, operate
and maintain the high-speed train link, according to Florida
Rail’s  website . Construction is due to start in 2012 and be
completed by 2015. So far $2.35 billion has been arranged for
the project, including about $2 billion of federal funds.  “We are looking at all possible sources to fill the
funding gap, including federal and private participation,”
Haddad said.  JR Central , Japan’s largest high-speed train operator, was
little changed at 668,000 yen as of 10:35 a.m. in Tokyo trading.
It has gained 7.2 percent this year, compared with a 2.7 percent
decline for the Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  The company and its Nippon Sharyo Ltd. trainmaking unit
have  teamed up  with  Mitsubishi Corp. ,  Sumitomo Corp. ,  Hitachi
Ltd. ,  Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd.  and five other Japanese
companies to bid for high-speed rail projects in the U.S.  JBIC Loans  Japan earlier this year agreed to allow JBIC to lend to
developed countries to help Japanese companies boost exports.
The lender has traditionally only supported developments in
emerging markets.  Nippon Sharyo’s N700 high-speed bullet train can travel at
a top speed of 330 kilometers per hour (205 miles per hour).
That compares with Amtrak’s Acela Express, the U.S.’s fastest
train, which is capable of 241 kilometers per hour between
Washington and Boston.  JR Central operates the high-speed line linking Tokyo and
Osaka, Japan’s oldest high-speed train line, which was used by
 138 million  passengers in the year ended March 31. Japan hasn’t
had a fatal bullet-train accident since services began in 1964.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
 Kiyotaka Matsuda  in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  