-- Japan's Economy Grew 4.5% in Third Quarter, More Than Previously Estimated
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2010-12-09T01:05:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/japan-s-economy-expands-4-5-more-than-previously-estimated-pace-of-3-9-.html
Japan’s economy expanded more than
the government initially calculated in the third quarter because
of a bigger-than-reported increase in capital spending.  Gross domestic product  grew at an annualized 4.5 percent
rate in the three months ended Sept. 30, faster than the 3.9
percent reported last month, the Cabinet Office said today in
Tokyo. In nominal terms, the economy grew 2.6 percent, less than
the 2.9 percent earlier projected, as price declines deepened.  Private consumption, which accounts for about 60 percent of
GDP, also fueled the expansion as households stepped up
purchases of energy-efficient cars ahead of the expiration of a
subsidy program. Japan’s economy is now poised to contract this
quarter because of slowing  exports  and an erosion in the outlook
for corporate profits after the yen's surge.  “Today’s report doesn’t change the fact that the economy
may contract this quarter, so we can’t be too optimistic,” said
 Tatsushi Shikano , senior economist at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan
Stanley Securities Co. in Tokyo. “Exports were doing alright up
to the third quarter, but monthly data since then shows signs of
demand weakening.”  The median forecast of 19 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News was for a 4.1 percent annualized expansion.  The yen traded at 83.96 per dollar at 9:35 a.m. in Tokyo
from 84.09 before the report was published. The Japanese
currency has still gained 2 percent since authorities tried to
stem the yen’s advance by intervening in currency markets on
Sept. 15. The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  rose 0.4 percent.  Outpacing U.S., Europe  Japan’s economy has grown for four straight quarters. From
the previous quarter, it expanded 1.1 percent, faster than the
0.9 percent rise that was initially reported last month, today’s
report showed. The figure compares with a 0.6 percent expansion
in the U.S. and a 0.4 percent gain in Europe.  The  GDP deflator , a gauge of price trends, fell 2.4 percent
in the third quarter from a year earlier, compared with the 2
percent drop initially reported, today’s report showed. It has
fallen for four straight quarters.  Capital investment  advanced 1.3 percent in the third
quarter from the previous three months, more than the 0.8
percent increase in the preliminary report, today’s data showed.
Private inventories added 0.2 percentage point to growth, more
than the 0.1 percent initially estimated.  Canon Inc. , the world’s biggest camera maker, said last
week it will spend 30 billion yen ($357 million) by 2015 to
build a toner-cartridge plant in Oita prefecture, southern Japan.  Recovering Investment  “Business investment is on a gradual recovery track,”
said  Kohei Okazaki , an economist at Nomura Securities Co. in
Tokyo. Yet, “there’s no change in the picture that a temporary
boost in consumer spending was the main cause for the high
growth in the third quarter,” he said.  In addition to the added demand as a result of the stimulus
measures, consumer spending gained in the third quarter as
smokers stocked up before an Oct. 1 tobacco-tax hike and the
nation’s hottest summer in more than a century encouraged
purchases of air conditioners.  Household outlays  rose 1.2
percent in the third quarter, compared with the 1.1 percent
initially reported, today’s data showed.  Unsustainable Growth  “The economic growth won’t be sustainable in the coming
quarters,”  Susumu Kato , chief economist for Japan in Tokyo at
Credit Agricole CIB and CLSA. “There’s a high chance that the
economy will contract this quarter as consumption may retreat
and exports slow.”  Japan’s GDP is expected to shrink at a 1.9 percent
annualized pace in the three months through December, according
to a survey of 42 economists by the Japanese government-
affiliated Economic Planning Association released yesterday.  The Japanese parliament last month passed an extra budget
to fund Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s stimulus package aimed at
fighting deflation and combating the stronger yen. To foster
growth, the Bank of Japan cut its benchmark interest rate and
created a 5 trillion yen fund to buy assets, including
government bonds, corporate debt, real estate investment trusts
and exchange-traded funds, in October.  “As long as deflation persists, the BOJ will need to
maintain its accommodative monetary policy for some time,”
Credit Agricole’s Kato said.  Yen’s Advance  The yen’s 10 percent gain against the dollar this year is
threatening earnings of Japanese companies.  Net exports , or
shipments less imports, were unchanged in the third quarter. On
an annualized basis, they subtracted 0.1 percentage point from
growth, the first decline in six quarters.  A survey of 353 Japanese companies excluding financial
firms showed that companies expect recurring profits to increase
13.3 percent on average in the year starting April 2011, slower
than the September estimate of a 19.8 percent gain, according to
a  Nomura Holdings Inc.  report released this month.  Nikon Corp. , the Japanese maker of cameras, lenses and
chip-making equipment, last month cut its full-year operating
profit forecast by 7.7 percent compared with the previous
estimate, citing a stronger yen.  In dollar terms, Japan’s $3.96 trillion economy remained
larger than China’s $3.95 trillion in the first nine months of
2010, the Cabinet Office said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keiko Ujikane  in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  