-- Jets Get Rejected by Family-Comes-First Player: Scott Soshnick
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2010-12-09T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/jets-rejected-by-player-putting-family-first-commentary-by-scott-soshnick.html
Keith Fitzhugh’s mobile phone rang
two days ago with the call every out-of-work football player
supposedly covets. It was his agent, relaying what he thought
was great news: The New York Jets wanted him back, needed him
back. Again.  Here was a chance for the 24-year-old Fitzhugh to make good
money -- as much as $100,000 over four weeks (if the gig lasted
that long) -- join a Super Bowl contender (more money) and
resume and rejuvenate a lifelong dream of fame and fortune
through football.  Only  Fitzhugh , who accepted a job as a train conductor in
September after the Jets cut him for the third time, passed. He
instructed his agent, Daniel Rose, to convey his appreciation
and regret. But fame and fortune don’t matter nearly as much as
family. And, right now, Fitzhugh reckoned, mom and dad and the
Norfolk Southern Railroad need him more than Jets coach  Rex Ryan .  “It was probably one of the toughest decisions I’ve had to
make,” Fitzhugh, who lives at home with his parents in Atlanta,
said yesterday by telephone.  The more you talk to Fitzhugh, who peppers the conversation
with yes-sirs and thank-yous, and the more his mother, Meltonia,
shares stories about homework and chores and long drives home
for hospital visits, the more you get the sense that her son is
exaggerating the agonizing part.  The decision, it seems, family over football, wasn’t really
all that difficult.  Early Lessons  Listen to Fitzhugh talk about his 55-year-old father, Keith
Sr., a former truck driver left with a gimpy gait after a pair
of hip replacements. Dad can’t drive anymore. Too much pain.
Heck, dad can barely climb the stairs. This is the same man who,
even though he left for work at 3 a.m., would always stay up
late to double-check homework. This is the man who, even though
he loved sports, made sure his scholarship-winning son knew that
there was so much more to life than football.  This is the grief-stricken mother who made the drive from
Atlanta to Starkville, Mississippi, where Fitzhugh, a freshman,
was about to play his first game for Mississippi State. The
mother learned the night before that her daughter, the kid
sister, 14-year-old Brittany, had died of complications from
West Nile Virus. The mother knew how much the game meant to her
son, knew the sister he visited whenever possible would’ve
wanted him to play that afternoon. He played. Then he listened.
And then he cried.  “It devastated the family,” said Meltonia Fitzhugh, 52,
who works as an office supervisor. “It brought us all together.
And we were close to begin with.”  Some decision -- togetherness or touchdowns?  Team Player  The sports-watching public is always clamoring for the
athlete that possesses perspective, for the fellow who places
little value on things like TV face-time and magazine covers.  Fitzhugh, who plays safety, isn’t a star. He is, however, a
young man who understands loyalty and obligation. Give me that
over some touchdown-making prima donna who thinks only of
himself.  Fitzhugh chose trains over Jets, in part because the
railroad, in this difficult economy, gave him a chance when no
one else would. Leaving now, he said, even for professional
football, just didn’t seem right.  “It would have been selfish,” Fitzhugh said, declining to
say how much he’s paid because bosses might not look kindly on
that information being shared publicly.  “It’s a good living,” he said. “Great benefits. Great
retirement.”  Growing Up  Fitzhugh works at least 40 hours a week. Some days are 12-
hour shifts and, yes, he occasionally works on Sunday. Missing
football on television is no sacrifice to Fitzhugh who, as a
kid, his mother relayed, used to say that he was going to play
professional football and then drive a train.  Back then, Fitzhugh abided by the rules of the house, which
went like this: Come home. Do your schoolwork. Clean your room.
Then, and only then, play. “Then we’d all sit around the dinner
table and discuss what we did that day,” mom said.  It was there, at that round table, that Fitzhugh learned to
do his best, and that even his best might not be good enough.  Thus far, there have been no steady paychecks from the
National Football League, where dreamers never forget the
correlation between injury and opportunity. Rose, the agent,
just might call again.  “You never know,” the mom said. “He may go back again.”  You can bet, if and when the phone rings, it’ll be a topic
of discussion at the dinner table. That’s how things work in the
Fitzhugh home.  Family first.  ( Scott Soshnick  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  