-- Johnson Controls Seeks Acquisitions to Build Premium Auto Seats Business
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2010-12-09T15:29:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/johnson-controls-seeks-acquisitions-to-build-premium-auto-seats-business.html
Johnson Controls Inc. , the largest
publicly traded U.S. auto-parts maker, is looking to buy more
companies that specialize in components used in premium-seat
making, said the head of development for the seat business.  Johnson Controls is  interested  in manufacturers of seat
motors and specialty mechanics, Detlef Juerss said in an
interview. Purchases to add those skills will strengthen the
company’s supply chain and generate business for upscale
vehicles by makers such as Daimler AG’s Mercedes-Benz unit and
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG , he said.  “There is still the one or the other gap that we want to
look at,” Juerss said yesterday at a factory in Burscheid,
Germany. “It has nothing to do with doubling revenue. It really
is about closing the portfolio.”  Johnson Controls, which Juerss said earned about 80 percent
of its $16.6 billion in  auto-interiors revenue  from seats in the
year ended Sept. 30, agreed last week to acquire C Rob
Hammerstein Group, which makes seat parts for Mercedes’ top-end
S-class model. Other acquisitions this year include car-interior
fabric and leather maker Michel Thierry SA and Benoac
Fertigteile GmbH. Chief Financial Officer  Bruce McDonald  said in
an Oct. 12 interview that acquisitions would focus on the
automotive division in the short term.  Faw, Chery  “Over a five-year period, we’d like M&A to be 80 percent
toward building efficiency, but right now we’re seeing more
opportunities in the automotive space,” he said at the time.  The supplier’s biggest growth market in coming years will
be China, where Milwaukee-based Johnson Controls aims to
participate in the growth of companies including Faw Group Corp.
and Chery Automobile Co., Juerss said.  Europe’s car market, Johnson’s  second-most important  after
the U.S., will rebound next year to about 15.5 million units, he
said. That compares with a projection by Ford Motor Co. that the
European auto demand will contract again in 2011 from about 15
million vehicles this year.  Johnson Controls’ main competitors in the car-seat business
include Nanterre, France-based  Faurecia SA  and Lear Corp. in
Southfield, Michigan. It also makes building controls and
batteries.  Shares of Johnson Controls slipped 5 cents to $38.28 at
10:27 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Before
today, they had jumped 41 percent this year, compared with a 10
percent  gain  by the Standard and Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cornelius Rahn  in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  