-- Johnson & Johnson Recalls Rolaids After Complaints
-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n   a n d   D a v i d   O l m o s
-- 2010-12-09T23:23:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/johnson-johnson-recalls-rolaids-after-consumers-complaints.html
Johnson & Johnson , buffeted by
multiple recalls of over-the-counter medicines this year, said
it was withdrawing 13 million packages of Rolaids soft chews
after consumers reported finding metal and wood particles in the
products.  While the risk of serious health effects is “remote,”
consumers who have purchased Rolaids Extra Strength Softchews,
Rolaids Extra Strength plus Gas Softchews, or Rolaids Multi-
Symptom plus Anti-Gas Softchews should stop using the products,
J&J’s McNeil Consumer Healthcare unit said today in a statement.  J&J, the world’s largest health products company, has
recalled more than 40 medicines this year amid complaints of
contamination. The withdrawals forced McNeil’s Fort Washington,
Pennsylvania, plant to suspend operations and were expected to
reduce 2010 sales by about $600 million, the company said in
October. U.S. lawmakers have been investigating New Brunswick,
New Jersey-based J&J’s handling of the recalls.  “The more of these events that occur, the more scrutiny
they are going to get from regulators,” said  Les Funtleyder , a
portfolio manager at Miller Tabak & Co. in New York. “They’ve
already been called in front of Congress twice.”  Rolaids tablets were among 500 lots of drugs J&J pulled in
January because of possible contamination with a wood chemical
used in shipping and packing materials. That recall, which also
included Motrin and Tylenol, expanded in June after consumer
complaints of a musty odor and reports of diarrhea, nausea and
vomiting among people who used the products.  Children’s Medicines  McNeil in April withdrew more than 40 types of children’s
over-the-counter liquid medicines because of “manufacturing
deficiencies,” the Food and Drug Administration said May 1.
Last month, the company recalled 4 million packages of
children’s Benadryl allergy tablets and about 800,000 bottles of
junior-strength Motrin after identifying manufacturing problems.
Another recall last month involved one lot of Rolaids soft chews
after consumers complained of an unusual consistency that was
traced to crystallized sugar.  Today’s Rolaids recall involves 96 product lots and
13,037,772 packages of soft-chews,  Marc Boston , a J&J spokesman
said in an e-mail. The products were made by a third-party
manufacturer, he said.  The latest recall “provides a troubling indication that
the company continues to exhibit serious shortcomings with its
quality-control procedures,” Representative  Edolphus Towns , a
New York Democrat, said today in an e-mail. Towns heads the
 House Oversight and Government Reform  panel that began its
investigation of J&J more than eight months ago.  Continuing Investigation  Representative  Darrell Issa  of California, a Republican who
will become chairman of the panel next year, will continue
investigating “the safety protocols in place at J&J’s
facilities, and how the FDA is managing food and drug safety,”
 Kurt Bardella , a spokesman for Issa, said in an e-mail.  McNeil has stopped making the three types of Rolaids soft
chews and won’t resume production until “corrective actions
have been implemented,” the company said.  Investors would welcome “a couple of months without a
recall event,” Funtleyder said today in an interview. “I think
investors’ expectations are pretty low at this point.”  J&J  declined  39 cents, or less than 1 percent, to $62.06 at
4:01 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares have lost 3.7 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Molly Peterson  in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net ;
 David Olmos  in San Francisco at 
 dolmos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 