-- Keith Richards Guitar, Mom Washington Among Top 2010 Nonfiction
-- B y   L a u r i e   M u c h n i c k
-- 2010-12-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/keith-richards-ax-washington-s-nutty-mom-rank-among-year-s-top-nonfiction.html
Among the books we reviewed this
year, biographies and memoirs are heavily represented in our
choices for the top nonfiction of 2010 -- even a book about
cancer is billed as a biography.  George Washington  “Washington: A Life” by  Ron Chernow  (Penguin Press in the
U.S., Allen Lane in the U.K.). He really did have trouble with
his teeth, but everything else most of us know about George
Washington will need readjustment now that Ron Chernow has
produced his splendidly detailed biography.  Decades pass before the dashing young military prodigy of
the French and Indian War turns into the resolute general, and
then, finally, the wise, unflappable leader of the nation. Along
the way, we meet his unhinged mother, his generous wife,
friends, retainers, villains -- and some of the smartest men who
ever breathed free air.  North Korea  “Nothing to Envy: Ordinary Lives in North Korea” by
Barbara Demick (Spiegel & Grau/Granta). Mi-ran and Jun-sang
dated for three years before they held hands, a further six
before Jun-sang worked up the courage to brush his lips lightly
against Mi-ran’s cheek. The society they lived in was beyond
puritanical.  Their star-crossed romance, as Barbara Demick describes it
in her superbly reported account of life in North Korea,
deserves a special place in the annals of backwardness.  “At the time I left North Korea,” Mi-ran later recalled,
“I was 26 years old and a schoolteacher, but I didn’t know how
babies were conceived.”  Her ignorance about sex, droll as it is, points to a
situation far darker: the complete lack of information about the
world into which the North Korean dictators Kim Il Sung and his
son, Kim Jong Il, plunged their subjects.  Cancer’s Biography  “The Emperor of All Maladies: A Biography of Cancer” by
Siddhartha Mukherjee (Scribner/Fourth Estate). Mukherjee, a
cancer physician and researcher at Columbia University Medical
Center in New York, chronicles the history of an illness that
has fascinated, bedeviled and humbled doctors, philosophers and
patients alike. He looks the monster in the eye and aims to know
it, moving beyond history into the realm of biography.  It’s “an attempt to enter the mind of this immortal
illness, to understand its personality, to demystify its
behavior,” Mukherjee writes. Ultimately, he wants to know
whether this disease can be vanquished.  Richards Tells All  “Life” by  Keith Richards  (Little, Brown/Weidenfeld &
Nicolson). Richards has been called “the world’s most elegantly
wasted human being.” Now he becomes rock’s most indiscreet
raconteur. The Rolling Stones guitarist dishes on  Mick Jagger ,
who he sometimes calls “Her Majesty,” and spends a lot of time
unpicking the myths behind the band. But the best bits aren’t
the sensational fights with girlfriend Anita Pallenberg or the
orgy of drugs -- they’re the parts where Richards lavishes
attention on the open five-string tuning that transformed his
playing.  Cleopatra’s Wealth  “Cleopatra: A Life” by  Stacy Schiff  (Little,
Brown/Virgin). Schiff handles the politics of the ancient world
with the immediacy she might bring to a book about the Clinton
or Bush administration.  For two millennia, she says, the Egyptian queen has
suffered from an image problem -- largely because what we know
about her comes not from Egyptian historians but from Roman
ones, who had an agenda. Schiff’s enthralling book has its own
agenda: to save this “capable, clear-eyed sovereign” from the
slanders of history.  The Mystery of HeLa  “The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks” by Rebecca Skloot
(Crown/Macmillan). Henrietta Lacks died of cervical cancer in a
“colored” hospital ward in Baltimore in 1951, but cells from
her tumor are still alive. Sent to a lab without Lacks’s
consent, labeled “HeLa” by technicians, they changed medical
history: They were the first human cells found to be
“immortal,” able to reproduce indefinitely outside the human
body.  HeLa cells have been used to test the Salk polio vaccine;
they’ve helped make antidepressants and blood-pressure pills;
they led to injection techniques used for in vitro
fertilization.  Skloot, a science writer, wanted to know more about the
woman, anonymous for years, who was responsible for those
ubiquitous cells. She never trips over her complex story lines,
managing to weave a science thriller, the grim history of
medical research without consent on poor blacks and a testament
to the power of family into a satisfying, bittersweet whole.  Smith on Mapplethorpe  “Just Kids” by  Patti Smith  (Ecco/Bloomsbury).  Robert Mapplethorpe  shot the unforgettable image, at once cocky and
fragile, of Patti Smith on the cover of her first album, the
1975 “Horses.” He was always taking pictures of her; it’s well
known they were close. Smith remembers how close in this
beautiful memoir.  Great Migration  “The Warmth of Other Suns: The Epic Story of America’s
Great Migration” by Isabel Wilkerson (Random House). Wilkerson
has crafted an extraordinary mosaic, combining oral history,
research and empathy to portray the exodus of some six million
blacks from the South in the years 1915-1970.  Wilkerson’s richest offering is the extended personal
histories provided by three migrants. She also deftly brings
herself, the daughter of migrants, into the narrative. She
recalls her mother stopping to get the Pontiac washed on a trip
back south to make a good impression.  To buy these books in North America, click  here .  ( Laurie Muchnick  is an editor for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg  News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  To contact the writer of this review:
Laurie Muchnick in New York at 
 lmuchnick@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 