-- Kim Jong Il Meets Chinese Diplomat for Talks Over Korea, Reaches Consensus
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-09T09:31:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/kim-jong-il-meets-chinese-diplomat-for-talks-over-korea-reaches-consensus.html
North Korean leader  Kim Jong Il  and
China’s top diplomat “reached important consensus” today on
issues of the Korean peninsula, where tensions have heightened
since the North’s attack on South Korean soil.  Kim met with State Councilor  Dai Bingguo  in Pyongyang today
and had “frank and in-depth talks,” China’s Foreign Ministry
said on its website, without providing details. The two
discussed “ways to further solidify cooperative relations,”
the state-run Korean Central News Agency reported.  Dai’s visit comes after he met with South Korea’s President
 Lee Myung Bak  last month following North Korea’s shelling of a
South Korean island that killed four people. Kim’s regime on
Nov. 20 also  confirmed  it has a uranium-enrichment facility for
a nuclear program that five countries are working to shut down.  The Obama administration has urged the Chinese government
to use its influence as North Korea’s only ally to push the
Stalinist country to cease its military attacks and nuclear
development. The top U.S. military official today said China
suffers from “myopia” in failing to persuade North Korea to
change its behavior.  “It appears China has opted for diplomacy rather than go
head-on against the U.S. pressure,” said Kim Yong Hyun,
professor of North Korean studies at Dongguk University in
Seoul. “The meeting itself signals Kim’s willingness to listen
to the outside world and refrain from further provocations.”  Richardson’s Visit  New Mexico Governor  Bill Richardson  will travel to North
Korea next week on a “private visit,” State Department
spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said yesterday in Washington.
Richardson, who has been to North Korea several times, will
likely share details of his trip with the State Department when
he returns, Crowley said.  China has refused to take sides in the standoff while
criticizing regional military exercises by the U.S., South Korea
and Japan as counterproductive. North Korea, which maintains
that the South provoked its artillery attack, has said the
drills increase the possibility of war.  The U.S., Japan and South Korea rejected China’s Nov. 28
proposal to reconvene six-nation negotiations over the North’s
nuclear program, saying Kim’s regime has failed to fulfill
previous agreements. Instead, U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  earlier this week met her Japanese and South Korean
counterparts in Washington.  ‘Costs of Miscalculation’  Kim’s regime “has been unable” to “recognize the risks
and the costs of miscalculation,” U.S. Admiral  Mike Mullen ,
chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said today in Tokyo.
“China must lead and guide North Korea to a better future.
There is too much at stake for this sort of myopia.”  China today accused Mullen of increasing tensions in the
region rather than defusing them.  “Those persons making accusations against China, I ask
what kind of efforts has he done to promote regional stability
and peace,” Chinese Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman  Jiang Yu  said.
“Military threats cannot solve problems and can only increase
tensions.”  Also present at today’s talks in Pyongyang were Chinese
Vice Foreign Minister  Zhang Zhijun  and top envoy to the Korean
peninsula,  Wu Dawei , KCNA said. Dai passed a gift from President
 Hu Jintao  to Kim, the news agency reported.  -- Michael Forsythe , Bomi Lim.  Yuki Yamaguchi . With assistance
from  Greg Turk  in Shanghai. Editors:  John Brinsley , Patrick
Harrington.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net ;
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net  