-- King May Oversee `Uneasy Truce' as BOE Stays Split on Growth
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2010-12-09T08:53:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/king-may-oversee-uneasy-truce-as-bank-of-england-stays-split-on-growth.html
Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King 
may oversee another stalemate today as faster inflation and
conflicting economic signals entrench a three-way split on his
Monetary Policy Committee over the need for more stimulus.  The nine-member panel will probably keep the size of its
 bond-purchase plan  at 200 billion pounds ($314 billion),
according to all of the 34 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey. All 58 economists in a separate poll predicted the
 benchmark interest rate  will stay at 0.5 percent. The bank
announces the outcome of its meeting at noon today in London.  Bank of England officials are considering whether Britain
faces a greater danger from inflation or from the deepest budget
cuts since World War II and Europe’s debt crisis. Policy maker
 Andrew Sentance  voted last month to withdraw stimulus, while
 Adam Posen  argued the economic recovery needs more aid, and the
rest opted for no change.  “They’re going to sit in an uneasy truce,”  Michael Saunders , chief western European economist at Citigroup Inc. in
London, said in a telephone interview. “Even though things are
going to slow down, that won’t be enough to tip their hand for
more stimulus. The next move will be a gradual tightening,
starting in late 2011.”  The pound was little changed against the dollar today,
trading at $1.5802 as of 8:47 a.m. in London. The yield on the
10-year U.K. government bond slipped 3 basis points to 3.519
percent.  Inflation Hindrance  Central banks elsewhere are guarding against a relapse in
growth. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on Dec. 6
that he may expand bond purchases beyond the $600 billion
announced last month as the U.S. economy barely expands at a
sustainable pace. The European Central Bank delayed the end of
emergency stimulus last week and stepped up government-debt
purchases to soothe “acute” market tensions.  The strength of  U.K. inflation  has dissuaded officials from
adding stimulus. Consumer prices rose an annual 3.2 percent in
October, exceeding the government’s 3 percent upper limit.
Inflation expectations reached a 26-month high in November,
according to a YouGov Plc survey for Citigroup.  “The inflation data are presenting a bit of a hurdle to
any further policy stimulus, but at the same time the first half
of next year is going to be quite tricky from a growth
perspective,” said  Ross Walker , an economist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in London. “Those things combined give us
maybe six months of policy inertia.”  Mixed Data  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said yesterday
that Britain’s recovery is “on track” after the economy posted
its strongest two consecutive  quarters of growth  in a decade
this year.  Recent data have painted a mixed picture. Surveys showed
manufacturing growth accelerated to the fastest pace in 16 years
in November and services expansion stayed close to a four-month
high. A construction index still remained near the weakest in
eight months, and Lloyds Banking Group Plc’s mortgage-lending
Halifax unit said today that house prices dipped 0.1 percent in
November as demand weakened.  Homebuilder Bellway Plc said Dec. 7 that its pretax profit
will rise as it weathers a “tough and testing” market.  ‘Sluggish’  The Treasury’s fiscal watchdog cut its economic growth
forecast for 2011 last week and said the U.K. faces a
“sluggish” recovery. The Office for Budget Responsibility
forecasts that about 330,000 government jobs will be axed by
2015, 160,000 fewer than thought in June, and the loss will be
more than offset by the creation of about 1.5 million private-
sector jobs.  “Although the recovery has been pretty good up until now,
I don’t think that necessarily means that the economy is in a
good position to withstand the government spending cuts and tax
rises next year,” said  Vicky Redwood , an economist at Capital
Economics Ltd. in London and a former Bank of England official.
“The question is whether the rest of the economy can offset the
effects of the fiscal squeeze and we don’t think it can.”  Officials are counting on exports to aid  economic growth  as
the budget squeeze hurts consumers. While manufacturing
 production  rose 0.6 percent in October, twice as much as
economists forecast, overseas sales are still vulnerable to
events in the euro area and King said last month that the
biggest risk facing the economy was from international factors.  Neutral  King also indicated that the rate-setting panel is adopting
a neutral stance. The risks to getting inflation back to target
are “broadly balanced” and policy makers “stand ready to
adjust policy in either direction should the outlook for
inflation demand it,” he told lawmakers on Nov. 25.  “The majority of the MPC have effectively positioned
themselves to maintain a very expansionary monetary policy
stance,” said  Jens Larsen , London-based chief European
economist at RBC Capital Markets and a former Bank of England
official. “If we continue to have reasonable growth and
inflation coming up as strongly as currently expected, then the
November 2011 Inflation Report is the point at which the MPC
will start thinking about a tightening of policy.”  In the meantime, the balance of risks remains tipped toward
policy makers increasing stimulus because of spare capacity in
the economy and the uncertainty of the international
environment, RBS’s Walker said.  “If the bigger global picture is still that there are
major financial strains and contagion risks in the euro area,
then the big global risk is going to be tilted towards deflation
rather than inflation,” he said. “In that environment, the
Bank of England has plenty of leeway.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  