-- Kokusai, PineBridge Lead Japan Funds to Rupee on Best Return: India Credit
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2010-12-10T01:05:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/kokusai-pinebridge-lead-japan-funds-to-rupee-on-best-return-india-credit.html
PineBridge Investments Japan Co. and
Kokusai Asset Management Co. are leading Japan’s biggest bond
funds to India as banks predict the rupee will deliver the best
returns for Japanese investors among major currencies.  The rupee will hand investors total returns of 24 percent
by the end of 2011 for yen-based buyers, the most among 33
currencies with forecasts in Bloomberg surveys of analysts,
beating the 23 percent prediction for the Polish zloty and 19
percent for Indonesia’s rupiah. Kokusai added to holdings of
Indian corporate debt in July, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. PineBridge said last month it would start to invest
in India.  Japanese investors are starting to look beyond high-yield
developed country debt after the Australian dollar rose 9
percent against the yen in the past six months. They turned net
buyers of Indian bonds in the first 10 months from net sellers
in 2009, while purchases of Australian notes fell almost 37
percent, data from the  Ministry of Finance  in Tokyo show.  “The yields are attractive, and we can expect appreciation
in the local currency in the long term due to economic growth,”
 Kazuya Sugiura , managing director at PineBridge’s fund-business
development division, said in an interview from Tokyo on Dec. 7.
“As the central bank has taken actions to stem price gains,
inflation may be stabilizing, which is also quite positive for
investment in India.”  The rupee has gained 5.4 percent including interest income
against the yen in the past three months.  PineBridge will start buying India’s debt next year for its
160 billion-yen ($1.9 billion) Blue Ocean fund with an initial
allocation of a few percent of the fund, Sugiura said. The
company plans to gradually expand the portion of such securities,
he said. The fund is Japan’s biggest that invests in sovereign
bonds of emerging economies.  Climb in Yields  The Reserve Bank of India boosted borrowing costs six times
this year while the Bank of Japan has kept its benchmark rate
 near zero  to combat deflation. Indian yields climbed relative to
Japanese debt for the past five quarters, the longest stretch of
increases since 2005, as the Reserve Bank lifted the  repurchase
rate  to 6.25 percent last month and the reverse repurchase rate
to 5.25 percent.  Australia’s central bank kept its  key rate  at 4.75 percent
this month and said borrowing costs are “appropriate.”
Indonesia has kept the benchmark rate at 6.5 percent since
August 2009.  Australia’s highest short-term yields among developed
nations helped make it the biggest recipient of funds from Japan
in Asia Pacific. Buying the so-called Aussie offered Japanese
investors a 44 percent return since the end of 2008, the third-
most among major currencies after the Brazilian real and the
South African rand. The rupee was 13th with a return of about 11
percent.  Australian Gap  Indian bonds dropped for a second day yesterday. The  10-
year yield  in India rose 1 basis point, or 0.01 percentage point,
to 8.12 percent. The rate compares with 7.45 percent in
Indonesia, 5.63 percent in Australia and 1.265 percent in Japan.  The yield difference between Indian and Australian bonds
maturing in a decade has grown 58 basis points from the
beginning of this year to 2.48 percentage points, and the  spread 
between India’s and Indonesia’s securities widened to 67 basis
points from minus 240 in the same period, according to Bloomberg
data.  “We have consistent demand for higher-yielding assets, and
with some of them getting relatively expensive, India is
becoming more popular,” said  Osamu Takashima , chief currency
strategist in Tokyo at Citigroup Inc. “The yen may not rise so
much from here, while the rupee may remain firm against the
dollar. There are lots of yen looking for better returns.”  Cap Lifted  The U.S. bank predicts the yen will trade at 84 per dollar,
compared with 83.82 in Tokyo yesterday, and the rupee to rise
about 5 percent to 43 over the next six to 12 months, he said.
The yen may weaken 7 percent to 90 yen against the dollar by the
end of 2011, while the rupee may climb 5 percent to 43,
according to analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The rupee slipped 0.3 percent yesterday to 45.22. The
currency has risen 3 percent against the dollar this year, and
is down 7.1 percent against the yen.  Elsewhere in Indian credit markets,  Housing Development
Finance Corp. , India’s largest mortgage lender, plans to raise
at least 1.5 billion rupees selling bonds, a person familiar
with the matter said yesterday. The Mumbai-based company’s notes
will pay a 9.25 percent coupon, the person said, asking not to
be identified as the transaction is private.  Default Swaps  The cost of protecting against a default by  State Bank of
India , which some investors perceive as a proxy for the nation,
has fallen 45 basis points in the past six months to 173 in the
credit-default swaps market, according to data provider CMA.
Such swaps are used to insure against missed debt payments,
declining when creditworthiness improves and vice versa.  India lifted the cap on foreign investment in bonds for the
first time in 18 months in September, boosting the limit on
government notes to $10 billion and that for corporate
debentures to $20 billion. Foreign investors won a quota
totaling 220 billion rupees ($4.88 billion) to buy long-term
government bonds and 201 billion rupees for the debt of
infrastructure companies, the Securities and Exchange Board of
India said Dec. 3.  Greater Investment  “It’s rational to assume increased investment into their
bonds from overseas including funds from Japan,” said  Takahide Irimura , head of emerging-market research in Tokyo at Kokusai,
which manages about $58 billion of assets. Based on “foreign
exchange and yield outlooks, India is definitely not a bad
destination to invest,” he said. Irimura declined to provide
forecasts or disclose investment positions.  Kokusai Asset, which runs Asia’s biggest bond fund, added
holdings of debt of Export-Import Bank of India, Indian Oil Corp.
and Indian Railway Finance Corp. for its Asia-Pacific Sovereign
Open fund in July, according to the latest filings to the
securities exchange compiled by Bloomberg.  The company and Daiwa Asset Management Co., the biggest
holders of Australia’s debt based on public filings, were net
sellers of the country’s bonds between June and August,
according Bloomberg data.  Japan’s purchases of Indian securities totaled a net 12.8
billion yen in the first 10 months, the most since the amount
for the whole of 2007, while buying of Australian debt was a net
1.38 trillion yen, down from 2.18 trillion yen in 2009,
according to Japan’s  Ministry of Finance . Indonesia saw net
sales of 4 billion yen in the January-October period of 2010,
compared with a net purchase of 60.5 billion yen for 2009.  “It’s possible to see increased flows from Japan into
India, especially in short-term bonds such as the three-month
notes,”  Tadashi Tsukaguchi , a fund manager in Tokyo at Sparx
Group Co., the region’s biggest hedge fund with $7.2 billion in
assets, said in an interview from Tokyo on Dec. 7. “It’s a good
idea to sell the yen against the emerging market currencies,
such as the rupee, maybe early next year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yumi Teso  in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 