-- National Semiconductor Predicts Sales Below Estimates
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2010-12-10T01:23:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/national-semiconductor-forecasts-quarterly-sales-below-analysts-estimates.html
National Semiconductor Corp. , a maker
of chips that control power in electronic devices, forecast
third-quarter sales lower than analysts’ estimates, citing
weaker-than-expected demand from mobile-phone makers.  Revenue will be $344 million to $359 million, Santa Clara,
California-based National Semiconductor said in a statement.
That compares with $382.3 million, the average  estimate  of
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Shares fell 4.1 percent in
extended trading.  Demand from handset manufacturers is lower than usual in
the run-up to year-end holidays, and distributors of National
Semiconductor chips are reducing inventory, the company said.
The decrease in stockpiles may be a sign chip resellers are more
pessimistic about demand from their customers, said  Mahesh Sanganeria , an analyst at RBC Capital Markets in San Francisco.  “This is not an environment where things are growing
gangbusters,” said Sanganeria, who has an “underperform”
 rating  on National Semiconductor. “If distributors are taking
down inventory, there are definitely some concerns.”  National Semiconductor’s prediction contrasts with that of
larger rival Texas Instruments Inc., which earlier this week
said demand for chips used in smartphones and communications
gear has improved.  The weakness in the mobile-phone market is in cheaper
handsets, rather than smartphones, National Semiconductor Chief
Executive Officer  Donald Macleod  said in an interview.  ‘Muted’ Growth  Chip distributors that let inventories pile up earlier this
year to ensure they’d have enough supply are now letting the
stockpiles run down, he said.  “We’re seeing positive markets but the growth rate is
muted,” said Macleod.  The midpoint of National Semiconductor’s sales prediction
indicates a decline of about 10 percent from the preceding three
months. Analysts had been expecting a decline of about 5
percent, Sanganeria said.  National Semiconductor said orders decreased 24 percent in
the three months that ended Nov. 28 from the preceding period.  Net income  in the fiscal second quarter rose 78 percent to
$83.5 million, or 34 cents a share, from $47 million, or 20
cents, a year earlier. Sales gained 13 percent to $390.4
million.  The stock fell to $14.36 in late trading, after the report
was released. It had risen 23 cents to $14.97 by 4 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. National Semiconductor
has  declined  2.5 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian King  in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  