-- Michigan's Levin Secures Top Democratic Post on House Ways and Means Panel
-- B y   R y a n   J .   D o n m o y e r   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2010-12-09T18:35:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/neal-recommended-as-top-democrat-on-ways-and-means-correct-.html
U.S. House Democrats, rebuffing the
recommendations of a nominating panel, today chose Michigan
Representative  Sander Levin  to be their leader on the tax-
writing Ways and Means Committee in the next session of
Congress.  Levin, who has been acting Ways and Means chairman, for
much of this year, defeated Massachusetts Representative  Richard Neal  109-78, said Representative  John Larson  of Connecticut.  The Democratic Steering and Policy Committee last night had
voted 23-22 in favor of Neal, said Representatives  Steve Israel 
of New York and  Chris Van Hollen  of Maryland.  In an e-mail to Democratic caucus members before today’s
vote, Levin described himself as “an effective chair” and
“the best person to meet the challenges our caucus faces in the
112th Congress.”  “I have demonstrated principled, active leadership and the
ability to press the administration to hold firm to our basic
principles and take on Republicans who want to turn back the
clock on our accomplishments,” he wrote.  Neal said the theme of his appeal to the caucus today was
that he would be a better messenger for Democratic policies.
“We have to do a better job of explaining all of the issues,”
he said.  Republican Chairman  The results of the Nov. 2 midterm elections gave
Republicans control of the House in the next congressional
session. Republican  Dave Camp  of Michigan will be chairman of
the Ways and Means panel starting in January.  Neal is the current chairman of the Ways and Means
subcommittee on select revenue measures. He had been angling for
months to challenge  Levin , who has more seniority on the panel
and has been its acting chairman since New York Representative
 Charles Rangel  stepped aside in March during an ethics
investigation into his conduct. Rangel was censured Dec. 2 for
committing 11 violations of House ethics rules.  Levin, 79, who represents Detroit’s  northeast suburbs , has
pursued policies backed by labor unions that include raising
taxes for executives of private equity firms and ending a tax-
saving technique favored by  Verizon Communications Inc .  Neal, 61, represents a district near the Boston
headquarters of Fidelity Investments that is home to insurance
and high technology interests. He speaks frequently at
conferences sponsored by Washington-based groups including the
Tax Executives Institute, which includes tax officials of the
nation’s 1,000 biggest companies.  Both men are proponents of policies that businesses
support, including a permanent research tax credit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ryan J. Donmoyer  in Washington at 
 rdonmoyer@bloomberg.net 
 Richard Rubin  in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  