-- Nestle Indonesia to Invest $100 Million to Make Milo
-- B y   C l a i r e   L e o w
-- 2010-12-09T06:02:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/nestle-plans-to-invest-100-million-in-indonesia-to-produce-milo-cerelac.html
Nestle SA , the world’s largest food
company, will invest $100 million in Indonesia to make Milo
chocolate-flavored products and Cerelac weaning formula as
purchasing power grows in Southeast Asia’s biggest economy.  The company’s factory in West Java will be ready by the end
of 2012 and initially employ about 300 people, PT Nestle
Indonesia President Director Arshad Chaudhry said in an
interview in Jakarta on Dec. 6.  Nestle  will buy about 10,000
tons of cocoa powder annually from local farmers to make Milo,
he said. Indonesia is the world’s third largest cocoa producer.  Nestle , which in August raised its full-year forecast as
demand in emerging markets boosted first-half sales faster than
analysts estimated, will focus on nutrition and wellness
products, Chief Financial Officer  Jim Singh  said then. The maker
of KitKat and Nescafe is targeting Indonesian households with a
monthly income of between 800,000 rupiah ($89) and 1.45 million
rupiah, whose purchasing power is rising, Chaudhry said.  These markets represent “people who are continuously
seeking good solutions for providing them nutritious food with
the limited money that they would have,” he said. “Products
like Milo fit into this well.”  Nestle  aims to replicate the success it has had with milk
formulas such as its Ideal milk powder, which can be sold in
packets for 1,000 rupiah, Chaudhry said. Milk powder and
products such as Dancow, Bear Brand sterilized milk and Ideal
contribute about half of  Nestle Indonesia ’s annual sales of
about $1 billion, he said.  Dairy Products  After the new factory is operational there are plans to add
capacity between 2013 and 2015 to provide for domestic needs,
Chaudhry said at a press conference today.  Nestle Indonesia’s largest investment is in Kejayan, East
Java, where it expanded milk production with a $100 million
investment last year. The factory processes about 700,000 liters
of milk bought from 33,000 dairy farms in East Java daily.  This factory, “one of the top 10 factories for  Nestle ” by
volume, will also supply some of the milk needed to make Milo
products at the new plant, the executive said.  Nestle  has  gained  10 percent this year while the  Swiss
Market Index  has lost 0.6 percent. Still, the Vevey,
Switzerland-based company’s stock trails the 14 percent climb by
Northfield, Illinois-based  Kraft Foods Inc. , its closest rival.  Fox’s Candy  Nestle Indonesia  was established in 1971 and employs about
2,600 people. It has another factory in Lampung, South Sumatra
province, producing Nescafe soluble coffee and coffee mixes, and
buys about 10,000 tons of green coffee a year from about 10,000
local coffee farmers, he added. Nestle has a plant in Cikupa,
Tangerang making confectionery such as Fox’s candy.  Milo is a chocolate-flavored beverage marketed in Southeast
Asia as an energy drink, and Nestle Indonesia sells about 15,000
to 20,000 tons of the product a year, a business that is growing
20 percent annually, Chaudhry said.  “We expect similar type of growth in the coming years,”
he said. Besides the beverage, other Milo products include  Choco
Blazz , introduced this year as a snack bar, he said.  Nestle  currently ships Milo to Indonesia from factories in
Malaysia and Singapore.  Cerelac Formula  With the new factory, Nestle Indonesia will also seek local
suppliers for red rice and mung beans for its Cerelac formula,
Chaudhry said. Mung beans are an important source of vegetable
protein for developing countries.  Other Nestle products contributing to the $1 billion annual
sales in Indonesia include Nestea packets selling for 500 rupiah
each, said Chaudhry, who worked in Pakistan, Switzerland and
China before moving to Indonesia in September 2009.  “When you have limited money, you are very interested to
spend that money wisely especially because getting sick is not
an option,” he said. “When you get sick, you have to spend
more money. To avoid that, there is a great deal of focus in
purchasing products which show them good quality and good
nutrition.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Claire Leow  in Singapore at 
 cleow@bloomberg.net ;
 Eko Listiyorini  at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at   flongid@bloomberg.net  