-- New York Voters Prefer More State Service Cuts to Raising Taxes, Poll Says
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2010-12-09T11:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/new-yorkers-prefer-state-service-cuts-to-more-taxes-poll-says.html
New York  state voters would rather
cut services than raise taxes to balance the budget, 56 percent
to 30 percent, a Quinnipiac University  poll  said.  New York, the third most-populous U.S. state, faces a
deficit of as much as $10 billion next year, according to Budget
Director  Robert Megna . The poll said 97 percent consider the
state’s budget problems somewhat or very serious.  Assembly Democrats worsened the problem by failing to close
a $315 million gap in this year’s $135.3 billion budget,
Governor-elect  Andrew Cuomo  said Nov. 30. Cuomo, who takes
office Jan. 1, has until Feb. 1 to propose his budget for the
fiscal year starting April 1.  “We’ve got a big budget problem, New Yorkers tell
Albany,” said  Maurice Carroll , director of the Quinnipiac
University Polling Institute in Hamden, Connecticut. He said
voters “are not too hopeful that state lawmakers and the new
governor will be able to solve the budget mess.”  Voters predicted state government would fail that
challenge, 46 percent to 38 percent, the poll said. Although
respondents opposed tax increases 66 percent to 31 percent, 82
percent said they expected the state to raise levies anyway.  Among deficit-closing strategies, 72 percent support a wage
freeze for state workers, with 23 percent against, the survey
said. Cutting state aid to public schools was opposed by 78
percent to 19 percent in favor, according to the poll.  The institute conducted 1,646 telephone interviews from
Nov. 30 to Dec. 6, giving the survey a margin of error of plus
or minus 2.4 percentage points, said  Douglas Schwartz , the
poll’s director.  Siena Poll  The Quinnipiac poll results differed from a  survey  released
Nov. 15 by the  Siena Research Institute , which said 52 percent
of voters urged Cuomo and the Legislature not to cut spending on
health care or education, even if it meant raising taxes. Job
creation ranked first as the state’s top priority with 48
percent, while 31 percent cited the need to balance the budget.  Voters expressed optimism that Cuomo would solve the
deficit problem, 59 percent to 40 percent who were pessimistic.
The survey of 802 voters, conducted Nov. 8-10, had a margin of
error of plus or minus 3.5 percentage points, according to the
Loudinville, New York-based institute, part of Siena College.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Henry Goldman  in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  