-- Rupert Murdoch's News Corp. Sues IMG Holdings Over `The Daily' Trademark
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2010-12-09T22:22:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/news-corp-unit-sues-img-over-the-daily-trademark-update1-.html
A company owned by  Rupert Murdoch ’s
 News Corp.  sued publisher IMG Worldwide Inc. over the trademark
for the name The Daily, which News Corp. plans to introduce as a
tablet-computer news publication.  News Corp.’s The Daily Holdings Inc. is seeking a court
ruling that The Daily won’t infringe IMG’s trademark for its
fashion publication, The Daily Front Row, according to a
complaint filed today in federal court in New York.  “IMG has claimed it has exclusive rights to use the words
‘The Daily’ as the name of a publication,” New York-based News
Corp. said in an e-mailed statement. “Those words are a generic
phrase and cannot be protected as the name of a media outlet.”  The Daily, featuring general news, sports, the arts and
opinion, will be introduced early next year as a subscription
product, initially on  Apple Inc. ’s iPad, according to the
lawsuit. IMG claimed that it holds common-law trademark rights
for the name The Daily, the complaint states.  Representatives of Cleveland-based IMG weren’t immediately
available for comment. The Daily Front Row, a print and Web
publication for the fashion industry, has an iPad application,
according to the complaint.  The Daily Holdings, also known as TDH, said in the
complaint that IMG counsel notified News Corp. in November that
it owns two trademarks for The Daily Front Row and common law
rights for The Daily. At a meeting between the two companies
Dec. 9, TDH was “persuaded” that an IMG trademark lawsuit was
“not only likely but imminent.”  A subscription for The Daily will cost $1 a week, according
to two people familiar with the plans who declined to be named
because the project hasn’t been formally announced. There will
be no print edition, according to the complaint.  The case is The Daily Holdings Inc. v. IMG Worldwide Inc.,
10-9204, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Don Jeffrey  in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  