-- NFL's Most Powerful Woman Seeks Stadium Cure for Oakland Raiders Blackouts
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2010-12-09T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/nfl-s-most-powerful-woman-seeks-stadium-cure-for-oakland-raiders-blackouts.html
Amy Trask  may be the only chief
executive in America whose routine includes hugging a gorilla,
blowing kisses to the Violator and screaming encouragement to
employees more than twice her size.  She’s also the only woman who has that job in the National
Football League.  Trask, 49, is in charge of all non-football operations for
the Oakland Raiders. Since interning for the franchise during
law school, she has spent all but 20 months working for the team
that has won three Super Bowls and now draws fans such as “the
Violator” in elaborate post-apocalyptic costumes.  “People perceive me as a business person who works in the
business of football,” Trask said in an interview at Raiders
headquarters. “I perceive myself as a football person who,
because of gender or size, finds myself making my contribution
in the business side of things. Football was what I wanted to
do, business was my way of making it happen.”  As chief executive since 1997 of a team whose football
operations are run by owner  Al Davis  and an all-male coaching
staff, Trask is responsible for everything from sponsorships to
TV contracts to representing the club at league meetings. Sports
Illustrated called her “the most powerful woman in the NFL.”  Among the biggest challenges facing her is moving the
Raiders, who share the 44-year-old Oakland Coliseum with Major
League Baseball’s Athletics, into a new stadium.  Since relocating back to Oakland from Los Angeles in 1995,
the Raiders have been blacked out on local television in 64
percent of their home games -- 81 of 126 -- because they have
failed to sell out. The Raiders rank last in the league in
attendance after six home games this season, averaging 45,772 at
the 63,132-seat Coliseum.  New Stadium  “There will be a new stadium for the Raiders, it’s on the
horizon and it’s very exciting,” Trask said.  The Raiders are committed to playing at the Coliseum
through the 2013 season. Though she said the team’s priority is
to stay in Oakland, Trask said the Raiders “have an open mind
about sharing a stadium” with the San Francisco 49ers, who may
move to Santa Clara in the heart of Silicon Valley.  Trask calls herself “tenacious,” and has developed a
reputation as a female version of Davis -- whose history of
legal battles with the NFL have branded him a rebel.  “Sure, I can be tough,” she said. “At the end of the
day, my hope is that I’m fair. If I’m acting in the best
interests of the Raiders’ organization, it’s not my job to be
lovable.”  Proven She Belongs  Kathryn Schloessman , president of the  LA Sports &
Entertainment Commission  and a friend of Trask, said some NFL
executives may have a tough time accepting a woman in their
ranks. Trask has proven she belongs, Schloessman said.  “She’s a great business executive,” Schloessman said in a
telephone interview from Los Angeles. “You could take her out
of the Raiders and put her into any business and she’d be
good.”  Trask says her gender shouldn’t be an issue and gives the
credit to Davis for hiring her. That doesn’t prevent her from
being a role model for young women.  “She just happens to be in a very unique position,”
 Kathryn Olson , chief executive officer of the  Women’s Sports
Foundation , said in a telephone interview. “She does have to
play that dual role where she has to be viewed as a capable
leader, but she also is breaking down barriers.”  Trask grew up in the Brentwood section of Los Angeles,
where she fell in love with football in junior high school. She
became a Raiders fan while attending the University of
California, Berkeley, where she graduated Phi Beta Kappa in 1982
as a political science major. The Raiders were playing in
Oakland at the time, before moving to Los Angeles from 1982-94.  USC Law School  She then attended the University of Southern California law
school, where she met her husband, Rob, a former real estate
developer who now manages a hedge fund, Oakland-based Black
Hills Capital Investors LLC.  Davis promoted her to chief executive in 1997 from the
team’s legal department. Her only career experience outside the
Raiders has been 20 months in 1985-87 in Los Angeles at law firm
 Barger & Wolen LLP . Davis, 81, didn’t respond to e-mail
questions about Trask sent through team spokesman  Mike Taylor .  Pregame Routine  Trask’s pregame routine includes meeting sponsors, working
with broadcasters and greeting local politicians. At the Nov. 29
home loss to the Miami Dolphins, she already was several hours
into her day when she took the field 90 minutes before kickoff.  While players did warm-ups and fans clad in silver and
black filtered into the stadium section known as the Black Hole
that contains some of the NFL’s most rabid fans, Trask welcomed
one dressed in a gorilla suit. Then she greeted a face-painted
fan in a Raiders jersey with Violator on the back and silver
spikes protruding from black shoulder pads, before leading six
Raiderette cheerleaders to a photo session with team guests.
During the game, she cheers as loud as any fan.  The Raiders are 6-6 this season, in second place in the
American Football Conference’s West Division. The Raiders have
won six games in a season for the first time since they went to
the Super Bowl following the 2002 season.  $758 Million Valuation  Trask declined to discuss the team’s revenue, operating
income or valuation.  Forbes magazine  estimated in August that
the Raiders had $217 million in revenue and an operating income
of $2.2 million in 2009, while giving the team a valuation of
$758 million -- next-to-last in the 32-team NFL, in which Forbes
said the average team was worth more than $1 billion.  Above all, Trask remains a fan who says her job with the
Raiders is really “a career and a lifestyle.” She points to
the team symbol of a helmeted pirate when asked what is
important to her.  “I don’t believe the focus should be on me,” she said.
“The focus should be on that man with the swords behind his
head and the patch on his eye. When you work for the Raiders,
the focus should be on the players and the tradition.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Gloster  in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  