-- Nobel Prize Committee Appeals to China to Improve Its Civil Rights Record
-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t   a n d   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2010-12-09T13:42:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/nobel-prize-committee-appeals-to-china-to-improve-its-civil-rights-record.html
The Nobel Peace Prize Committee
appealed to China to improve its civil rights record after the
world’s second-largest economy berated the Norway-based group
for bestowing this year’s award on jailed dissident  Liu Xiaobo .  “We appreciate the economic development of China in the
past two-three decades, but in the long run we’re all interested
in seeing political reforms,” said  Thorbjoern Jagland , the head
of the committee, at a press conference in Oslo today. “This is
a country of 1.3 billion people, so to a large extent the future
of the world is in the hands of this big country.”  Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Jiang Yu on Dec. 7
derided the Nobel committee’s Oct. 8 selection of Liu as a
“farce” and said the prize was awarded by “clowns.” U.S.
President  Barack Obama  called on China to release Liu, who was
sentenced to 11 years in prison last year for seeking to subvert
the ruling Communist Party. Nineteen countries have said they
won’t attend tomorrow’s award ceremony, while 45 accepted the
committee’s invitations, it said today.  “This is not a prize against China,” Jagland said. “It’s
a prize honoring those people in China -- and Liu Xiaobo is one
of the most prominent ones -- that are clearly understanding
that further economic development in China must be combined with
political reforms. We strongly believe that the world as a whole
should be very concerned about the future of China.”  The country passed Japan this year to become the world’s
second largest economy, and will grow about 10 percent in 2010
and 2011, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development said in a Nov. 18 report.  “If China is able to develop a market economy with full
civil rights it will have an enormous positive impact on the
world as a whole,” Jagland said. “If not, there is a risk that
there will be a huge social and political crisis in the country
with a negative effect on all of us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Josiane Kremer  in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  