-- Novartis Zometa Cancer Failure Stalls $1 Billion Sales
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z   a n d   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r
-- 2010-12-10T08:15:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/novartis-to-withdraw-expanded-zometa-approval-request-after-trial-failure.html
Novartis  AG’s effort to add $1
billion in sales to its bone-repair drug Zometa with an extra
approval in breast cancer stalled yesterday when the treatment
failed to stop tumors from returning in a study.  Zometa combined with standard treatments didn’t slow the
disease or prolong life, according to a 3,360-patient study
presented at the  San Antonio Breast Cancer Symposium  in Texas.
An earlier, smaller study showed Zometa users were 32 percent
less likely to have their cancer recur after five years.  Based on the new findings,  Novartis , of Basel, Switzerland,
will withdraw U.S. and European applications for Zometa approval
to prevent breast cancer relapse. The company is reviewing
whether a new trial is needed to refile for clearance. Positive
results could have boosted Zometa sales as much as $1 billion in
2015, said  Fabian Wenner , an analyst at UBS AG in Zurich.  “The data is a disappointment,”  Andrew Weiss , an analyst
at Bank Vontobel in Zurich said in an interview today. “Zometa
was set to lose patent protection, so it’s not a bitter loss.”  Zometa has patent protection until 2013; a new application
for use in breast cancer could have added three additional years
in that indication, Wenner said.  Novartis shares fell 25 centimes, or 0.5 percent to 53.75
Swiss francs at 9:07 a.m. in Zurich trading today.  ‘Real Doubts’  “The trial casts real doubts on whether there is a role
for Zometa in preventing recurrence of breast cancer,” said
 Eric Winer , chief of the division of women’s cancer at the Dana-
Farber Cancer Institute in Boston, in an interview. Doctors
prescribing Zometa to block the return of tumors “should stop
or at least question that practice.”  Zometa, given as an infusion, also is sold at a lower dose
under the name Reclast or Aclasta to treat osteoporosis. It
belongs to a group of drugs called bisphosphonates that help
maintain bone strength and may also fight cancer by stimulating
immune cells, choking off the growth of blood vessels that feed
tumors, and causing malignant cells to self-destruct.  “Bisphosphonates are commonly used to treat osteoporosis
caused by breast cancer,” said  Sharon Giordano , an oncologist
at the University of Texas’ MD Anderson Cancer Center in
Houston, in a telephone interview. “The million-dollar question
is whether or not these drugs will also be effective in
preventing breast cancer recurrences.”  About a half million women in the  U.S.  and Europe are
diagnosed annually with breast cancer, and after treatment about
11 percent have their  cancer return  within five years.  Azure Study  Yesterday’s five-year study, dubbed  Azure , compared Zometa
added to chemotherapy to the other drugs alone. The main goal
was to prolong the time women survived without tumors recurring.
Novartis provided grant money to researchers at the University
of Sheffield in England, who conducted the study.  In the study, 404 of the women getting Zometa and 403 of
those on a placebo in addition to standard care developed
invasive disease. A total of 243 Zometa patients and 276 on a
placebo died, the researchers found. There were 17 confirmed
cases of osteonecrosis of the jaw, a devastating side effect
that causes the jawbones to die, and nine possible cases.  Zometa did show a benefit for the oldest women, those at
least five years beyond menopause, increasing overall survival
rates by 29 percent compared to those getting only chemotherapy.
More work is needed to determine if that finding should change
breast cancer care, researchers said.  Older Women  “This isn’t a treatment for everybody,” said Robert
Coleman, an oncologist at  Weston Park Hospital  in Sheffield,
England, and the study’s lead researcher, in a telephone
interview. “But there is this group of older women that are
behaving so differently we don’t think it’s a chance finding.”  Novartis will withdraw its applications for approval of
Zometa to prevent the recurrence of breast cancer in the U.S.
and Europe, and plans to refile after discussing the Azure trial
results with  regulators , said  Herve Hoppenot , head of oncology
at Novartis. The company originally sought clearance based on
the results of the earlier trial out of Austria.  “The future of the application itself is really unknown at
this point,” Hoppenot said in a telephone interview. “We don’t
know what the regulators will ask us to do. We need to define
the group where it is beneficial. What the data tell us is that
it will be a subgroup.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michelle Fay Cortez  in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net 
 Eva von Schaper  in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  