-- China November Passenger Car Sales Rise 29% to Record
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-09T08:59:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/november-passenger-car-sales-to-dealers-in-china-increases-29-3-on-year.html
China’s passenger-car deliveries to
dealers rose to a record in November as customers rushed to take
advantage of government incentives supporting vehicle-buying
that may expire at the end of the year.  Sales of passenger cars including multipurpose and sport-
utility vehicles increased 29.3 percent to 1.34 million in the
month, higher than the previous record of 1.32 million in
January, according to the  China Association of Automobile
Manufacturers . The pace of growth was the fastest since April.  Stimulus measures in China including a consumption-tax
rebate for smaller vehicles, subsidies for rural car-buyers and
incentives to trade in older models are all due to expire at the
end of the month. Demand is being spurred by customers
anticipating an end to the policies, said  Yu Bing , an auto
analyst at Pingan Securities Co. in Shanghai.  “Consumers who expect the stimulus policies to be
discontinued next year are bringing forward purchases before
time runs out,” Yu said. “There is little reason to support
the extension of the tax rebate and vehicle trade-in policies,
given robust industry growth.”  Passenger-car sales rose 34.9 percent to 12.45 million in
the 11 months to November, the automakers group said today.  While demand growth may slow in 2011, carmakers such as
 General Motors Co.  and  Ford Motor Co.  continue to add new models.  GM, Ford  GM introduced Baojun, a new “affordable” brand, on
Nov. 22 to grab share from local automakers such as BYD Co. and
Geely Automobile Holdings Ltd. and will begin selling the line
next year. Ford opened 40 dealerships in China on Nov. 25 and
plans to add a further 26 by the year’s end as it aims for
record sales in the country.  Total vehicle sales that include trucks and buses surged to
1.697 million, 26.9 percent more than a year earlier, the
association said. For the 11 months through November, total
vehicle sales rose 34 percent to 16.4 million.  The stimulus measures helped China’s industrywide vehicle
sales jump 46 percent last year to 13.6 million, surpassing the
U.S. for the first time to become the world’s largest national
automobile market.  Total vehicle sales in China may rise to 18 million this
year, compared with an earlier forecast of 17 million,  Xiong Chuanlin , the association’s vice secretary-general, said today
at a briefing in Beijing.  -- Tian Ying ,  Liza Lin , with assistance from Wang Ying in
Beijing. Editors:  Kae Inoue ,  Ian Rowley   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7571 or
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  