-- Number of Journalists in Jail Worldwide Is Highest Since 1996, Group Says
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2010-12-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/number-of-journalists-in-jail-worldwide-is-highest-since-1996-group-says.html
The number of journalists imprisoned
worldwide reached 145 this year, the highest figure since 1996,
the Committee to Protect Journalists reported yesterday.  The group said in a report  published  on its website that
the number of journalists jailed in 2010 rose by nine compared
with 2009. Iran and China each detained 34 journalists,
accounting for nearly half the total, according to the New York-
based organization, which advocates for imprisoned and
threatened journalists.  The crackdown on journalists in Iran went beyond the post-
election arrests in 2009, the report said, and showed a
“sustained assault on critical voices that continues to this
day.” In China, the rise in imprisonments was “propelled” by
detention of Uighur and Tibetan journalists beginning in 2009
and continuing this year, the report said.  “The increase in the number of journalists jailed around
the world is a shocking development,”  Joel Simon , the group’s
executive director, said in the report. “It is fueled largely
by a small handful of countries that systematically jail
journalists -- countries that are at war with information
itself.”  Eritrea, Myanmar, formerly known as Burma, and Uzbekistan
followed Iran and China on the list of 28 countries that jailed
journalists, the report said. One of those imprisoned in China
is  Liu Xiaobo , who was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize this year.  The number of reporters, editors and photojournalists in
jails reached a 14-year high even after accounting for 17 Cuban
journalists who were freed this year after being held since
2003, the report said. The group recorded 185 journalists behind
bars in 1996.  The committee collected its data through coordinators who
monitor the press in Africa; Asia; North, Central and South
America; Europe and Central Asia; and the Middle East and North
Africa. It also relies on contacts in countries around the
world.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gopal Ratnam  in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  