-- Obama, JPMorgan's Dimon Met at White House to Talk Economy, Official Says
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 2010-12-09T00:09:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/obama-jpmorgan-s-dimon-met-at-white-house-to-talk-economy-official-says.html
President  Barack Obama  met with
 JPMorgan Chase & Co . Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  at the
White House today to discuss ways the administration and
business community can work together on economic growth, an
administration official said.  The Oval Office meeting with Dimon was part of the
president’s attempts to reach out to U.S. businesses, said the
official, speaking on condition of anonymity because the meeting
was private.  Also as part of that effort,  Shelly Lazarus , chairman of
advertising agency  Ogilvy Group Inc ., met today at the White
House with senior adviser  Valerie Jarrett , Obama’s liaison to
the business community, the official said.  Joe Evangelisti , a JPMorgan spokesman, declined to comment.  Obama is seeking to rebuild relationships with the U.S.
business community in response to criticism from some executives
and business groups, such as the  U.S. Chamber of Commerce , of
administration initiatives to overhaul the health-care system
and enact new financial regulations.  Over the last week the president has announced a series of
measures, including a deal to extend the Bush tax cuts, which
have the support of the business community.  “The president has shown a willingness to learn,”  Ivan Seidenberg , CEO of  Verizon Communications Inc . chairman of the
Business Roundtable, said today at a news conference in
Washington. “The things that occurred in the past couple of
days are extraordinary.”  Trade Accord  Obama announced a deal with South Korea on Dec. 3 that
would allow a free-trade agreement between the two nations to
proceed. Preserving the decade-old tax rates and passing long-
stalled trade deals have been among demands of corporate
advocates such as the Business Roundtable.  Seidenberg issued a list of complaints against Obama and
Democrats in Washington six months ago, saying proposals to
raise corporate taxes and impose environmental regulations
threatened to undercut companies’ ability to expand and hire.  The Business Roundtable, a Washington-based group,
representing chief executives from companies including JPMorgan
and  Exxon Mobil Corp ., released a “Roadmap for Growth” today
that called for changes to corporate tax policy, a cut in
spending and revisions in new financial rules and health-care
legislation. The group said it shared Obama’s goal of retooling
the U.S. education system and modernizing the electricity grid.  Since his party’s losses in last month’s midterm elections,
Obama has held meetings with current and former top executives
including  Michael Duke , chief executive officer of Wal-Mart
Stores Inc.,  Alan Lafley , a former CEO of Procter & Gamble Co.,
and   Steven Reinemund , former chairman and CEO of PepsiCo Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Nicholas Johnston  in
Washington at   njohnston3@bloomberg.net 
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  