-- Oil Trader Eisenstein Leaves JPMorgan in Restructuring After Sempra Buy
-- B y   A s j y l y n   L o d e r   a n d   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2010-12-09T18:07:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/oil-trader-eisenstein-leaves-jpmorgan-in-restructuring-after-sempra-buy.html
Oil trader  Ira Eisenstein  left
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.  last week as the second-largest U.S. bank
by assets restructured its team after the $1.7 billion
acquisition of RBS Sempra Commodities LLP units.  “I am no longer there,” New York-based Eisenstein, who
spent 17 years at Morgan Stanley before JPMorgan, said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “A number of other people left
at the same time. They are just restructuring.” JPMorgan
trimmed oil traders to make room for new staff, Eisenstein said.
 Kimberly Weinrick , spokeswoman for JPMorgan, declined to
comment.  JPMorgan’s global commodities unit, led by  Blythe Masters ,
trimmed headcount following acquisitions including units of Bear
Stearns Cos. and UBS AG. The bank began dismissals on July 21 to
cut the RBS Sempra overlap and eliminated less than 10 percent
of the combined “front offices,” Masters said that month.  Sempra Energy, based in San Diego, and  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc , headquartered in Edinburgh, completed a $1.7
billion sale to JPMorgan of the venture’s metals, oil and
European power and gas businesses on July 1. “The acquisition
almost doubled the number of clients the firm’s commodities
business can serve,” JPMorgan said in a Nov. 9 filing to the
Securities Exchange Commission.  JPMorgan Purchase  JPMorgan agreed in October to buy RBS Sempra’s North
American natural gas and power trading book for about $220
million. RBS was forced to sell its commodities unit to comply
with European Union rules after getting 45.5 billion pounds
($71.8 billion) in the largest bailout of a U.K. bank. The
lender bought a controlling stake in Sempra Energy in 2008.  “For every organization that is reshaping their business,
there’s likely another looking to hire,”  Dominic Mound , a
consultant at Commodity Appointments Ltd., said today in
Singapore. “Demand for good, quality people remains strong.”  The bank may cut jobs at its industrial-metals team in
London, according to a Dec. 1 Metal Bulletin report, citing
unidentified people. At least two jobs there will be cut to
eliminate duplication, according to the publication.  In August, the bank said it would close the proprietary
trading desk in commodities to comply with new U.S. curbs on
investment banks, according to a person briefed on the matter.
The closure affected fewer than 20 traders in the unit, the
person said.  Eisenstein, 52, said he joined the bank in April 2008 to
help build the physical oil trading business. Among the people
he worked with was  Andy Kelleher , former president of
ConocoPhillips Supply & Trading, who joined the bank in August
2009. Eisenstein was an executive director at Morgan Stanley
before joining JPMorgan in 2008, said an October presentation
from JPMorgan. He started his career at Phibro Energy.  Bank of America Corp. is the largest U.S. lender by assets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Asjylyn Loder in New York at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net ;
 Chanyaporn Chanjaroen  in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net .
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  