-- Oil Rises for First Day in Three as Recovery Trims Supply Excess
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2010-12-09T13:54:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/oil-rises-first-time-in-three-days-as-crude-supply-drop-exceeds-forecasts.html
Oil rose for the first time in three
days on signs that the economic recovery is gathering strength
and reining in excess fuel inventories.  Futures gained after data showed Japan’s economy grew more
than initially estimated in the third quarter and a U.S.
government report showed initial jobless claims fell last week.
The Energy Department said yesterday  crude stockpiles  held by
the world’s biggest oil consumer declined almost three times
more than forecast. The Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries will review production quotas at the end of the week.  “The market is anticipating improving fundamentals in
2011,” said  Hannes Loacker , a Raiffeisen Bank International AG
analyst in Vienna. “But crude inventory levels remain rather
high, above the upper end of the last five years. So in the
short-term, risk appetite has to intensify for a rise to $100.”  Crude for January delivery rose as much as $1.14, or 1.3
percent, to $89.42 a barrel in electronic trading on the New
York Mercantile Exchange. The contract was at $88.41 at 1 p.m.
London time. Brent crude for January settlement rose as much as
87 cents, or 1 percent, to $91.64 a barrel on the London-based
ICE Futures Europe exchange.  The number of workers filing first-time claims for
unemployment insurance payments fell last week in the U.S.,
showing the labor market continues to improve. Applications for
jobless benefits decreased to 421,000, in line with the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, from a
revised 438,000 the prior week, Labor Department figures showed.  ‘Bit of Imeptus’  U.S. crude inventories fell 3.82 million barrels last week
to 355.9 million, the Energy Department said yesterday. Supplies
were  forecast  to decrease 1.4 million, according to the median
estimate of 16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “If you look at this crude number as part of a trend,
you’re definitely starting to see a decline,” said  Ben Westmore , a minerals and energy economist at National Australia
Bank Ltd. in Melbourne. “It looks to be something more
fundamental happening and might be providing a bit of impetus.
In the short to medium term, the tax cuts are important for U.S.
demand and consumption growth.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose to a two-year high in
New York yesterday following President  Barack Obama ’s extension
of Bush-era tax cuts earlier this week. Japan’s gross domestic
product grew at an annualized 4.5 percent rate in the three
months ended Sept. 30, faster than the 3.9 percent reported last
month, the Cabinet Office said today in Tokyo.  Fuel Inventories  U.S.  gasoline  inventories added 3.81 million barrels to 214
million last week, the biggest percentage increase since
November 2009. Stockpiles were forecast to decline 300,000
barrels, based on the Bloomberg survey.  Distillate fuel 
supplies, including heating oil and diesel, climbed 2.15 million
barrels to 160.2 million, ending a 10-week drawdown.  U.S. product inventories increased as refiners boosted
processing by the most since October 2008. Capacity utilization
rose 4.9 percentage points to 87.5 percent, the Energy
Department report said. That’s the highest rate since the week
ended Sept. 17.  The data were “entirely driven by a surge in crude runs,”
 Michael Wittner , New York-based head of oil market research at
Societe Generale SA, said in a report yesterday. “Refiners
processed much more crude week-on-week, which drove an
unexpected crude draw. Product supply rose significantly.”  Oil in New York may halt its advance past a 26-month peak
above $90 a barrel because of resistance on technical charts
indicated by Bollinger Bands, according to Cameron Hanover Inc.  OPEC Quota  Crude climbed to $90.76 a barrel on Dec. 7, the highest
intraday price since October 2008. Investors may start selling
contracts when prices advance to around $90.55, said  Peter Beutel , president of the energy adviser in New Canaan,
Connecticut. That’s the higher of two Bollinger Bands.  OPEC, which pumps about 40 percent of the world’s crude,
will keep production targets unchanged as oil rises toward $100
a barrel, according to  Shokri Ghanem , chairman of Libya’s
National Oil Corp.  The 12-member group will probably agree on a quota
extension and focus on discussing output compliance when it
meets Dec. 11 in Quito, Ecuador, Ghanem said yesterday at
Amsterdam’s Schiphol airport. Oil will climb to $100 “pretty
soon” and once that happens, group members may alter their
production strategy, he said.  Prices “are not reacting to supply and demand,” Qatar’s
Energy Minister  Abdullah bin Hamad al-Attiyah  said in an
interview in Cancun, Mexico. Oil inventories are at record
levels and the economic recovery in Europe and the U.S. has been
choppy, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Grant Smith  in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  