-- Holder Says U.S. Probes WikiLeaks-Related Web Attacks
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s   a n d   J u s t i n   B l u m
-- 2010-12-09T22:59:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/holder-says-u-s-is-looking-into-wikileaks-tied-cyber-attacks.html
The U.S. Justice Department is
examining cyber attacks that have been blamed on WikiLeaks
supporters, Attorney General  Eric Holder  said.  “We are aware of the incidents,” Holder said at a news
conference in Washington today. “We are looking into them.”  Homeland Security Secretary  Janet Napolitano , speaking at
the  news conference with Holder, said the U.S. is coordinating
with the “private sector” on cyber issues. Separately, a
Department of Homeland Security official, who spoke on condition
of anonymity, said the agency is working with companies to limit
damages from the attacks.  MasterCard Inc. ’s website was slowed yesterday by a flood
of traffic in a denial-of-service attack after the company
blocked use of its network by WikiLeaks.  Visa Inc.  took steps
yesterday to restore its website to full operation after
experiencing heavier than normal traffic.  Computer-security analysts said prosecutions of those
behind the attack aren’t clear cut.  “At an individual level a person is pushing a button and
sending a packet,” said  Robert Gourley , a former cyber-security
expert with the Defense Intelligence Agency. “I don’t know what
legal precedents there would be that allows you to take a person
to court for doing this.”  MasterCard Suspension  MasterCard, the world’s second-biggest payments processor,
and London-based Visa Europe Ltd. said on Dec. 7 they are
suspending use of their networks by WikiLeaks after the
organization on Nov. 28 began publishing secret U.S. military
and State Department documents online.  Amazon.com Inc.  and  EBay Inc. ’s PayPal unit also recently
cut off access to WikiLeaks. PayPal said it was taking
additional steps today as it sustained cyber attacks.  In an e-mailed statement, PayPal said it has temporarily
strengthened the vetting process for new developers who want to
build on PayPal’s software code.  “We have taken this temporary action to focus on
maintaining business as usual for our millions of active PayPal
customers, merchants and developers,” the company said.  The hackers turned to PayPal after failing to take down
Amazon’s site, according to a post on Twitter that claims to
represent the hackers.  “We have changed our target -- the Hive isn’t big enough
to attack Amazon,” the post said.  “New target:
api.paypal.com.”  Craig Berman , a spokesman for Amazon, declined to comment.  Impact of Attacks  The impact of the attacks probably won’t affect the
operations of big Internet companies, said  Scott Kessler , an
equity analyst at Standard & Poor’s in New York.  “If those were to succeed, they typically don’t last very
long,” Kessler said. “You will see them taking hold for a few
hours at most. These companies are, generally speaking, well
prepared to handle these types of attacks.”  Security consultants said one likely result of the attacks
is that federal authorities will seek greater cooperation from
the country’s largest Internet providers, which are in the best
position to shut the attacks down quickly.  “These companies have typically been reticent,” said  Anup Ghosh , a former senior scientist at the Defense Advanced
Research Projects Agency. Still, “they are really the
organizations that can do something about it.”  Investigation Continues  Holder said the Justice Department’s investigation of the
documents released by WikiLeaks is continuing.  “The hope here in the United States is that the
investigation that we are conducting will allow us to hold
accountable the people responsible for that unwarranted
disclosure of information that has put at risk the safety of the
American people,” said Holder.  Also today, the Dutch public prosecutor said that a 16-
year-old was arrested in the Netherlands in connection with the
digital attacks on the MasterCard website and Ebayh’s PayPal
business. The teenager, whose name wasn’t released, is suspected
of being in a larger group of hackers that sympathizes with the
work of WikiLeaks, and he will appear before a magistrate in
Rotterdam tomorrow, the public prosecutor said in a statement.  The Federal Bureau of Investigation, an arm of the Justice
Department, is probing the attacks, according to a U.S. law
enforcement official who spoke on condition of anonymity.  Swedish law enforcement officials said they are probing
cyber attacks that crashed government websites following the
arrest in the U.K. of WikiLeaks founder  Julian Assange , who is
fighting extradition to Sweden.  The Swedish Prosecution Authority said its website was
“deliberately attacked” on the night of Dec. 7 and referred
the matter for investigation. Assange, a 39-year-old Australian,
is in a London jail after Sweden issued an international arrest
warrant over rape and molestation allegations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Bliss  in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net ;
 Justin Blum  in Washington at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  