-- OMV's Central European Gas Hub Starts Electronic Futures Trading in Vienna
-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2010-12-10T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/omv-s-central-european-gas-hub-starts-futures-trading-in-vienna.html
Central European Gas Hub AG , a unit
of  OMV AG  and the Vienna Stock Exchange, will start natural-gas
futures trading on its electronic exchange in the Austrian
capital today.  The contracts offered are for front-month gas and for gas
for the next three months, with futures for seasons and years to
be introduced in 2011, Harald Wuestrich, who heads the unit,
told journalists today in Vienna.  Futures markets are used by traders wanting to receive
guaranteed prices for gas yet to be delivered and can be used as
a way to “hedge” the risk of price movements.  Natural-gas trading hubs, or physical trading points for
the fuel, offer transparent pricing and have developed around
Europe in recent years, led by the U.K.’s National Balancing
Point and the Title Transfer Facility in the Netherlands. Other
hubs are growing in Germany, France and Denmark.  CEGH, which started day-ahead gas contracts a year ago,
also intends to introduce spot trading for intraday gas
contracts next year, Wuestrich said. “We aim to do this as
quickly as possible,” he said, adding that Austria first needed
to pass a law to allowing intraday gas contracts.  OMV holds an 80 percent stake in CEGH, with Wiener Boerse
AG owning the rest. OMV plans to reduce its stake, with  OAO
Gazprom , Russia’s gas-export monopoly, aiming to get an
unspecified holding in CEGH, OMV’s head of gas  Werner Auli  said
today. “Gazprom is still running through the European Union
pre-notification proceedings,” Auli said.  OMV had originally planned to sell a 30 percent stake to
Gazprom and 20 percent to Centrex Europe Energy & Gas AG. The
plan to sell to Centrex has been abandoned as the company is a
trading participant in CEGH, Auli said. He declined to comment
how big a stake Gazprom may get.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zoe Schneeweiss  in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  