-- Hong Kong Stocks Advance for Second Day as Insurers Climb on U.S. Upgrades
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2010-12-09T09:20:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/hong-kong-stocks-advance-for-second-day-as-insurers-climb-on-u-s-upgrades.html
Hong Kong  stocks  rose for the second
day this week. Insurance companies jumped after Standard &
Poor’s raised its outlook for the U.S. life insurance industry
and after UBS AG recommended Prudential Plc.  Prudential Plc , the U.K.’s biggest insurer, surged 7.3
percent in Hong Kong after UBS added the stock to its European
“key calls” list. Manulife Financial Corp., Canada’s largest
insurer, jumped 5.3 percent in Hong Kong. China Railway Group
Ltd., the nation’s biggest construction company by total assets,
surged 5.9 percent on speculation orders will increase. Cnooc
Ltd., China’s biggest offshore oil producer, advanced 1.2
percent after crude price gained.  The  Hang Seng Index  advanced 0.3 percent to 23,171.80 at
the close. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index  of so-called H
shares of Chinese companies was little changed at 12,731.42.
Both gauges retreated yesterday on speculation China may raise
interest rates this weekend to curb inflation in the world’s
fast growing major economy.  “The market yesterday reacted to the expectation there
will be an earlier rate hike in China, and it is having a very
moderate rebound today,”  Ben Kwong , chief operating officer at
KGI Asia Ltd. in Hong Kong. “Market sentiment remains cautious
as investors wait for more clues about China’s tightening and
other macro issues.”  China’s statistics bureau yesterday said it will release
November economic data on Dec. 11 at 10 a.m. local time, two
days earlier than originally scheduled, fueling speculation the
central bank may raise rates this weekend.  Insurer Upgrades  Life insurers gained after S&P lifted the U.S. industry’s
outlook to “stable” from “negative,” saying the companies
may sidestep downgrades next year following stock and bond sales.
Prudential Plc soared 7.3 percent to HK$78.40, while Manulife
Financial jumped 5.3 percent to HK$123.  Separately, Fitch Ratings said on Dec. 7 that U.S. property
and casualty insurers’ premium revenue will probably rise next
year for the first time since 2007.  Insurers’ “share prices have been lagging behind the
market because their earnings in the first three quarters
weren’t that good,” said KGI’s Kwong. “There may be some
window dressing or bargain hunting that’s boosting the share
price.”  Chinese life insurers also gained.  China Life Insurance Co. ,
the nation’s biggest insurer, rose 0.5 percent to HK$33, and
Ping An Insurance Group Co., the second-largest, gained 0.3
percent to HK$89.95 after BNP Paribas said China’s insurers will
benefit from an inflationary environment, which pushes up bond
yields.  China Railway, CSR  The  Hang Seng Index  increased 5.9 percent this year on
expectations that growth in corporate earnings will overcome
concerns about the pace of the U.S. economic recovery and
China’s steps to curb rising property prices. Shares in the
gauge trade at an average 14.6 times estimated earnings,
compared with about 17.2 times at the start of the year.  China Railway Group rose 5.9 percent to HK$5.92, and  CSR
Corp. , a trainmaker, jumped 5.7 percent to HK$10.46 as investors
speculated a high-speed rail congress in Beijing will spur new
orders.  Chinese Vice Premier  Zhang Dejiang  said at the conference
the nation’s rail companies should look overseas to expand co-
operation, the People’s Daily newspaper reported today.  China Railway Construction Corp. , the builder of more than
half the nation’s railroads, jumped 2.6 percent to HK$9.99 after
HSBC Holdings Plc raised its rating on the stock to
“overweight” from “neutral.”  Oil Gains  Cnooc  rose 1.2 percent to HK$18.14, and PetroChina Co.,
China’s largest oil company, advanced 1.3 percent to HK$9.96.
They were the second- and third-biggest contributors to the  Hang
Seng Index ’s advance.  Crude oil for January delivery rose as much as 92 cents, or
1 percent, to $89.20 a barrel in New York after a government
report showed crude  supplies  declined almost three times more
than forecast in the U.S.  Evergrande Real Estate Group Ltd.  rose 2 percent to HK$4.17
after Radio Television Hong Kong reported the developer’s
contract sales this year will be more than 50 billion yuan
($7.51 billion), citing Vice Chairman  Xia Haijun . The company is
targeting 100 billion yuan in annual contract sales in two years,
the broadcaster cited Xia as saying.  Twenty-four stocks rose while 19 fell on the 45-member Hang
Seng Index. Futures on the gauge gained 0.3 percent to 23,147.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kana Nishizawa  in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 