-- Only Al Capone Might Cry for WikiLeaks Editor: Margaret Carlson
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2010-12-09T02:00:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/only-al-capone-might-pity-wikileaks-editor-commentary-by-margaret-carlson.html
Who would have thought the Swedes
would do our dirty work?  For now, at least,  Sweden  has managed to curb the
globetrotting publicity machine that is WikiLeaks founder and
editor Julian Assange by charging him with sex-related crimes.
Assange turned himself in to U.K. authorities to face the
allegations.  It seems that at some point during two sexual encounters in
Sweden with two different women on two different occasions, what
was initially consensual became decidedly not so. In other
words, no means no, even if it was preceded by a sexual act for
which the answer was yes.  Assange’s British lawyer,  Mark Stephens , asserted that the
accusations, at worst, amounted to what’s sometimes called, in
Sweden, “sex by surprise,” punishable by a $715 fine.    Law enforcement ’s gotta do what it’s gotta do. Mobster Al Capone, you’ll recall, was nailed for  tax evasion , not murder.
As the Pentagon and  Justice Department  have learned, it may be
difficult to try Assange in the U.S. under the creaky Espionage
Act of 1917, unsuited to our Age of Wiki.  So sex allegations will have to do.  The charges against Assange do have a trumped-up feel, as
though there’s a specifically worded law somewhere that
prohibits Australian creeps from having sex in Sweden while
releasing hundreds of thousands of documents on wars in Iraq and
Afghanistan. This arrest should be accompanied by the admonition
contained in the U.S. Supreme Court decision in  Bush v. Gore : Do
not use in any other set of circumstances.  No Pulitzer Coming  Still, there’s been no discernable rush to Assange’s
defense by civil libertarians and others of their ilk. Usually
the press welcomes as heroes those who uncover government
secrets.  Bob Woodward ’s most recent and justly praised book
spits out classified information like a teletype machine. Daniel Ellsberg, the Harvard grad and former Marine who saw the
government lying about the war in  Vietnam  and delivered cables
showing the real facts, supplied it to the New York Times, which
won a Pulitzer Prize for the Pentagon Papers.  I see no such honor for Assange, whose problems overshadow
even the considerable ones Ellsberg and Woodward faced.  His supporters say this leak is like the Pentagon Papers in
that it reveals the truth about war based on lies. That
justification fails for a number of reasons, including how
thoughtlessly indiscriminate Assange’s document dump was, how
little useful light it shed on Iraq and Afghanistan beyond the
awful truth we already know, and Assange’s indifference to
collateral damage.  Naming Names  Allies he might have won are aghast that he didn’t take the
easy step of redacting the names or the identifying details of
Americans working in Iraq and  Afghanistan  who may now be in
mortal danger. It’s telling that news organizations that have
used the material supplied by Assange have scrubbed it of
compromising details about which Assange has no qualms.  On display in Assange’s few interviews is a messianic sense
of self-righteousness and a complete lack of conscience -- a
combination to which the natural reaction is to want to pop him
in his pouty mouth. Ellsberg wrestled publicly with what he’d
done; I imagine that any sleep Assange loses is over how best to
continue holding the world’s attention.  It’s hard to know what Assange is. He isn’t a reporter or
publisher, with their deserved constitutional protections. He’s
not the leaker. By most accounts, that’s U.S. Army intelligence
analyst Bradley Manning, who was arrested in June, who could
face decades in prison if convicted, and about whom Assange
voices little concern.  New Role  Assange is the cyber-disseminator, about whom we have no
laws. It would be beneficial for all involved to figure out how
WikiLeaks does or doesn’t fit into the press’s quest for the
truth.  Assange’s heroic luster is wearing thin even among his
supporters. John Burns of the New York Times, one of the few
journalists to spend time with Assange since he went into
hiding, reported in October that some of his associates were
abandoning him “for what they see as erratic and imperious
behavior, and nearly delusional grandeur unmatched by an
awareness that the digital secrets he reveals can have a price
in flesh and blood.”  If Assange had released all the embarrassing diplomatic
gossip, even exposed the Saudis playing both sides of the
street, but blacked out information compromising real people, he
would be closer to his self-image as an international man of
mystery using the modern-day printing press to assist free
societies.  He may be right when he says the sexual charges against him
are political in nature. They’re also a pittance if, as many
fear, his crusade against government secrecy results in real
heroes getting killed.    Margaret Carlson , author of “Anyone Can Grow Up: How  George Bush  and I Made It to the White House” and former White
House correspondent for Time magazine, is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Margaret Carlson in Washington at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  