-- Majority of Americans Say Fed Should Be Reined In or Abolished, Poll Shows
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2010-12-09T18:40:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/more-than-half-of-americans-want-fed-reined-in-or-abolished.html
A majority of Americans are
dissatisfied with the nation’s independent central bank, saying
the U.S. Federal Reserve should either be brought under tighter
political control or abolished outright, a poll shows.  The Bloomberg National Poll underlines the extent to which
the central bank’s standing has suffered as it has come under
fire in Congress, first from Democrats for regulatory lapses
before the financial crisis and then from Republicans for
failing to revive an economy in which the  jobless  rate hovers
near 10 percent. Voters from both parties have criticized the
Fed’s $3.3 trillion in aid to the financial system.  “The Fed had to do extraordinary things to keep us from
going into a great depression, and the public doesn’t see it
this way,” said  Lyle Gramley , a former Fed governor who is now
senior adviser at Potomac Research Group in Washington. “The
last time we had any really severe criticism of the Fed was in
the early 1980s, when the Fed was pursuing this brutally tight
policy to keep inflation under control.”  The survey, conducted Dec. 4-7, also shows deep skepticism,
especially among Republicans, over the Fed’s Nov. 3 announcement
that it would buy bonds in an attempt to bring down unemployment
and prevent deflation. More than half say the purchases won’t
help the economy.  The policy, known as quantitative easing, was the target of
criticism in Washington and overseas. That prompted Fed Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  to appear in an interview on CBS television’s
“60 Minutes” program on Dec. 5 to defend his actions.  Across the Spectrum  Americans across the political spectrum say the Fed
shouldn’t retain its current structure of independence. Asked if
the central bank should be more accountable to Congress, left
independent or abolished entirely, 39 percent said it should be
held more accountable and 16 percent that it should be
abolished. Only 37 percent favor the status quo.  In a previous poll, conducted Oct. 7-10, 35 percent of
Americans said the Fed should be radically overhauled, while 8
percent said it should be abolished.  Republicans and independents are more likely to support
ending the Fed, with 19 percent of independents, 16 percent of
Republicans, and 12 percent of Democrats wanting to do away with
the central bank. Among those who identify themselves as
supporters of the Tea Party movement, which wants to rein in
government, 21 percent want to abolish the Fed.  Dual Mandate  The Fed was  founded  in 1913. While Congress sets its
mandate, politicians let it determine how to achieve those goals
through monetary policy and allow it to resolve differences of
opinion among its seven board members and 12 Reserve Bank
presidents.  Republicans in Congress have taken aim at the Fed’s dual
mandate to achieve both maximum employment and stable prices.
Last month, two Republicans, Tennessee Senator  Bob Corker  and
Indiana Representative  Mike Pence , proposed removing the
employment mandate to focus the Fed on stable prices. Corker
plans to introduce legislation next year.  That legislation would amend the Humphrey-Hawkins Full
Employment Act of 1978, which created the Fed’s dual mandate.  Most members of Congress haven’t taken a hard look at the
Fed in decades, said Representative  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin
Republican in line to head the House Budget Committee. “They’re
really beginning to wake up on this,” Ryan said in an
interview.  Getting Politics ‘Out’  Pence, the outgoing chairman of the House Republican
Conference, said his legislation doesn’t seek to abolish or
politicize the Fed.  “Getting the Fed back to its original mission on price
stability is precisely how we get politics out of monetary
policy,” he said this week at a monetary policy forum in
Washington.  Opponents of the central bank got another boost today when
Representative  Ron Paul , a Texas Republican and author of “End
the Fed,” was picked to head the House Financial Services
subcommittee that oversees the central bank. Paul said last week
he is planning a series of hearings on U.S. monetary policy and
wants to increase auditing of the Fed.  Senator  Jim Bunning , a Republican from Kentucky completing
his second term, called for restraints on the Fed in his
farewell address today.  “Public awareness of what the Fed is doing is increasing
while public opinion of the Fed is falling,” Bunning said.
“Congress must act to rein in Chairman Bernanke and the Fed
before they destroy our currency and permanently damage our
economy and the financial system.”  Rare Appearance  Bernanke, 56, made his rare appearance on a nationally
broadcast news program to explain his efforts to prop up a
recovery so weak that only 39,000 jobs were created last month.  “We’re not very far from the level where the economy is
not self-sustaining,” he said in the interview. “It’s very
close to the border. It takes about 2.5 percent growth just to
keep unemployment stable, and that’s about what we’re getting.”
He said it’s possible the Fed will expand its bond purchases.  The Fed has said it would buy $75 billion a month of
Treasury securities through June. That caused an uproar among
Republicans, including  Sarah Palin , the 2008 vice presidential
nominee who says she’s considering a run for president in 2012.  Palin wrote to the Wall Street Journal last month, “it’s
time for us to ‘refudiate’ the notion that this dangerous
experiment in printing $600 billion out of thin air, with
nothing to back it up, will magically fix economic problems.”  A ‘Myth’  Bernanke responded to such charges in his 60 Minutes
interview, saying, “One myth that’s out there is that what
we’re doing is printing money.” He added, “The money supply is
not changing in any significant way.”  “The machinations of the Fed are not exactly a subject of
water-cooler conversation -- until newsmakers start talking
about them,” said J.  Ann Selzer , president of  Selzer & Co. , a
Des Moines, Iowa-based firm that conducted the nationwide
survey. “That talk has engendered a certain skepticism among
the general public, many of whom may not see how this esoteric
action by the Fed will ease their own pain.”  Fifty-four percent of those surveyed say the Fed’s policy
won’t help the economy, compared with 25 percent who say it
will. The remainder are unsure.  One poll respondent, Kathy Lipski, 34, said, “The Fed just
has too much power or too much of a monopolized view, and I
believe it needs some more oversight.” Lipski, who works for
 Honeywell International Inc.  in Chicago, added: “It’s a good
thing to have a separate entity as long as they’re acting in the
best interest of the American people.”  Investors Skeptical  In a September poll of Bloomberg customers, investors were
skeptical as well: Two in three said if the Fed were to ease
monetary policy by buying bonds, it wouldn’t boost the economy,
compared with one in three who were optimistic about the plan.
By November, approval of the plan increased, with 41 percent
optimistic and 56 percent saying it wouldn’t help.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  has risen 15 percent since
Aug. 27, when Bernanke signaled the Fed’s willingness to begin a
second round of quantitative easing during a speech in Jackson
Hole, Wyoming. Investors’ expectations for  inflation over the
next five years  have risen to 1.6 percent a year from 1.2
percent, as measured by the difference between the yields on
inflation-protected and nominal bonds.  Still, the  yield on 10-year  Treasuries rose to 3.27 percent
yesterday, the highest level since June, from 2.64 percent on
the day of Bernanke’s speech.  Praising the Fed  Many observers have praised the central bank for steering
the country away from the worst financial crisis in seven
decades.  Fed officials “just did what they had to do to avoid a
much more severe macro outcome,” said  Roberto Perli , a managing
director at International Strategy & Investment Group in
Washington and a former Fed economist. “The Fed should quite
frankly take credit for that.”  Bernanke personally is more likely to be viewed favorably
than unfavorably. Thirty-four percent of respondents said they
see him favorably, and 25 percent don’t. Forty-one percent said
they weren’t sure.  He became chairman of the Fed in February 2006, after being
appointed by President  George W. Bush . He was renominated by
President  Barack Obama  and confirmed for a second term in
January 2010.  The Bloomberg National Poll is based on interviews with
1,000 U.S. adults age 18 or older and has a margin of error of
plus or minus 3.1 percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  