-- Morgan Stanley Said to Expect 2010 Bonus Pool Will Shrink as Much as 30%
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2010-12-09T15:24:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/morgan-stanley-said-to-expect-investment-bank-bonuses-to-decline-up-to-30-.html
Morgan Stanley , the sixth-largest
U.S. bank by assets, has told some employees to expect
investment banking bonuses to decline 10 percent to 30 percent,
according to two people briefed on the matter.  Managers are being told of the reduced pool as they prepare
to make year-end bonus decisions, said the people, who declined
to be named because the discussions are private. The pay levels
haven’t been set and employees at the New York-based firm won’t
be told their bonus until January, one of the people said.  Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman  has promised to reduce
the portion of the company’s overall  revenue  awarded in
compensation after it surged to 62 percent last year. He said
last month that Wall Street must fix a culture that contributed
to the financial crisis by idolizing individual employees and
giving them incentives to take outsized risks.  Fixing the culture will require “creating a compensation
system that better aligns or balances shareholders’ interests
and the broader society’s interests with the individual’s
interests, and changing the perception that it’s the individual
that’s the hero,” Gorman, 52, said in November. “As an
industry, we can have larger-than-life personalities, but
individuals don’t make institutions.”  Morgan Stanley cut the  investment bank’s  compensation pool
8 percent in the first nine months of this year to
$5.3 billion. Overall, the company set aside $12 billion for
compensation and benefits, or 50 percent of revenue, in the
nine-month period.  Retaining Talent  “Our long-term success depends on retaining the best
people, and we are committed to paying competitively,” said
 Mark Lake , a Morgan Stanley spokesman.  The cut in investment bank bonuses may not be unique to
Morgan Stanley. Compensation for trading and investment banking
employees is likely to be down 22 percent to 28 percent from
last year, said  Michael Karp , CEO of Options Group, an executive
search and compensation consultant firm in New York.  “This is going to be Street-wide, not just one firm,” Karp
said. “The revenue hasn’t been as great as last year, and
coupled with a tough regulatory environment and banks being
closely watched by governments globally, it’s not an easy pay
environment.”  Compensation expenses at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in the
first nine months was 21 percent less than a year earlier, while
the pay pool at JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s investment bank was down
10 percent. Both of those New York-based firms slashed their
compensation pool in the fourth quarter last year as banks faced
pressure from lawmakers and shareholders over pay packages.  Bonus Predictions  About 71 percent of 2,145 people who responded to an
eFinancialCareers.com e-mailed poll in the U.S. said they are
anticipating at least an equal bonus from last year, with 50
percent expecting a bigger payout. About 11 percent said their
bonus will jump by at least half, according to the survey
released in October.  Fixed-income traders’ pay will probably fall as much as 30
percent this year, according to a report from New York-based
compensation consultants Johnson Associates Inc. Compensation
for merger advisers will be flat to 5 percent higher, and
investment bankers who manage stock and bond sales will see a
range between 5 percent up and 5 percent down, the report said.  “Compensation trends are going to be very well-watched over
the next couple of years,” Karp said. “There will always be some
top players across the board making good money, but I think in
general we are seeing the pay trend going down.”  Brokerage Impact  Compensation at Morgan Stanley’s brokerage unit won’t be
affected as it is largely based on a fixed formula and is less
dependent on year-end bonuses. The brokerage’s pay pool climbed
41 percent to $5.8 billion so far in 2010. This is the firm’s
first full year of owning a  joint venture  with  Citigroup Inc. ’s
Smith Barney.  The investment bank’s pay pool represented 42 percent of
revenue, while the brokerage set aside 63 percent of revenue.  Morgan Stanley last year instituted clawbacks that allow
the bank to take back compensation if an employee engages in
conduct that hurts the firm in the years after it was paid. The
company also paid a greater portion of year-end bonuses in stock
to tie individual pay to the company’s performance.  Gorman, who became CEO this year after leading the firm’s
wealth-management unit, was paid $15.1 million in salary and
bonus for 2009. About $8.6 million of the pay can be clawed back
or is dependent on the company meeting performance measures.
Gorman declined a bonus in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael J. Moore  in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 