-- Mortgage-Bond Ruling ‘Clear Negative’ for Banks, Analyst Says
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2010-12-09T20:52:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/mortgage-bond-ruling-clear-negative-for-banks-analyst-says.html
A court ruling favoring the Federal
Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh in its effort to make mortgage bond
underwriters buy back bad debt was a “clear negative” for Wall
Street and may prompt settlements in such cases, Compass Point
Research and Trading LLC said.  The Nov. 29 decision by Pennsylvania state Judge R. Stanton
Wettick Jr. allows a suit against JPMorgan Chase & Co. and three
credit ratings companies to enter the so-called discovery phase,
which may force the defendants to disclose information relevant
to the case.  Such suits, involving allegedly faulty statements about
securities tied to home loans and sold before homeowner defaults
soared, could cost mortgage- bond  underwriters as much as $179.2
billion, according to an August report by  Chris Gamaitoni ,
Compass Point analyst and former senior financial analyst for
government-controlled mortgage financier Fannie Mae.  The “court ruled against the defendants on several
seriously contested issues,” Gamaitoni said today in a report.
“The fact the claims have survived motions to dismiss and moved
to the discovery phase is a clear negative for mortgage
underwriters as it will likely allow investors access to loan
files.”  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a JPMorgan spokeswoman, declined to
comment.  Lawsuits against underwriters are separate from bondholder
attempts to make lenders and other mortgage sellers buy back
individual loans, Gamaitoni said. Five of the 12 Federal Home
Loan Banks have filed suits against underwriters over $31.9
billion of home-loan securities.  ‘Incremental Insight’  The Pittsburgh order, which Gamaitoni said may help guide
cases in other jurisdictions, provided “incremental insight”
into two key issues, he said.  The judge said mortgage bond investors can sue underwriters
if their holdings have lost value regardless of whether they
received payments on time. Wettick also ruled that investors
don’t need to prove before trial that any misstatements by
underwriters were material.  The Federal Home Loan Banks are government-chartered
cooperatives owned by U.S. financial companies. They were formed
to raise money through bond sales and lend the proceeds to their
owners.  Compass Point is a research and investment banking firm.  The case is Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh v. J.P
Morgan Securities LLC, GD09-016892, Court of Common Pleas of
Allegheny County, Pennsylvania (Pittsburgh).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  