-- Mortgage Rates for U.S. Fixed-Rate Loans Jump to Five-Month High
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2010-12-09T16:21:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/mortgage-rates-for-u-s-loans-climb-to-five-month-high-freddie-mac-says.html
U.S. mortgage rates surged to a five-
month high, tracking a jump in bond yields after President
Barack Obama agreed to extend tax cuts for two years.  The average rate for a 30-year  fixed loan  increased to 4.61
percent in the week ended today from 4.46 percent, the fourth
week of gains, Freddie Mac said in a statement. The average 15-
year rate climbed to 3.96 percent from 3.81 percent, according
to the McLean, Virginia-based mortgage-finance company.  The agreement to extend tax cuts sent yields on mortgage-
bond securities to six-month highs yesterday on speculation that
the budget deficit may widen and inflation will accelerate.
Rising borrowing costs from record-low levels may spur some
prospective homebuyers to make purchases to lock in low rates,
said  Paul Dales , U.S. economist at Capital Economics Ltd.  “Once people see this might actually be the bottom, they
go for it,” Dales said in a telephone interview from Toronto.  Mortgage applications for home purchases climbed 1.8
percent in the week ended Dec. 3, the third straight increase,
the Washington-based Mortgage Bankers Association said
yesterday. Total application volume dropped 0.9 percent as
refinancing slumped, the group said.  The average rate for a 30-year loan fell to 4.17 percent
last month, the lowest in Freddie Mac records dating to 1971.
The rate averaged 5.97 percent during the past decade.  Still Cheap  “It’s still fair to say mortgage affordability is high and
mortgage financing is cheap,” Dales said. “It’s just not as
cheap as it was couple months ago.”  Pending sales of U.S. existing houses unexpectedly jumped
by a record 10 percent in October as low interest rates and
reduced prices began to attract some buyers, the National
Association of Realtors said Dec. 2.  Toll Brothers Inc. , the largest U.S. luxury-home builder,
saw deposits increase 10 percent in the final two weeks of
November compared with a year earlier as mortgage rates began
to climb, Chairman  Robert Toll  said Dec. 2.  “In the last two weeks, interest rates have been going up,”
Toll said during a conference call. “So finally there is no
longer a reason to sit and wait.”  The U.S. housing market is struggling to maintain a
sustained recovery as foreclosures mount and unemployment hovers
near 10 percent. The nation’s homes are poised to lose more than
$1.7 trillion in value this year, Zillow Inc. said today.
Prices will decline as much as 11 percent as the slump extends
into 2012, according to a report from Morgan Stanley yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Prashant Gopal  in New York at 
 Pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel in New York at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  