-- Most Americans Say They’re Worse Off Under Obama, Poll Shows
-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 2010-12-09T05:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/most-americans-say-they-re-worse-off-under-obama-poll-shows.html
More than 50 percent of Americans
say they are worse off now than they were two years ago when
President  Barack Obama  took office, and two-thirds believe the
country is headed in the wrong direction, a Bloomberg National
Poll shows.  The survey, conducted Dec. 4-7, finds that 51 percent of
respondents think their situation has deteriorated, compared
with 35 percent who say they’re doing better. The balance isn’t
sure. Americans have grown more downbeat about the country’s
future in just the last couple of months, the poll shows. The
pessimism cuts across political parties and age groups, and is
common to both sexes.  The negative sentiment may cast a pall over the holiday
shopping season, according to the poll. A plurality of those
surveyed -- 46 percent -- expects to spend less this year than
last; only 12 percent anticipate spending more. Holiday sales
rose by just under a half percent last year after falling by
almost 4 percent in 2008.  “It’s definitely different this year than it’s been,”
says poll respondent Larry Deyo, a 38-year-old father of two in
Marlton, New Jersey. “I can’t really do too much with
spending.” He says he lost his job at a kitchen and bath
design center when the company closed, and he’s now working at
a  Home Depot Inc.  store with a “significant decrease” in pay.  It was President  Ronald Reagan  who popularized the
question, “Are you better off or worse off than you were four
years ago” in his 1980 campaign against  Jimmy Carter .  Past Presidents  Obama’s numbers in the poll, given the context of an
economy that is struggling to recover from the longest
recession since the Great Depression and the experience of past
presidents, aren’t so bad.  As Reagan approached the end of his second year in office,
his numbers were more negative than Obama’s in this survey. In
an  ABC News/Washington Post  poll taken in Oct. 1982, 61 percent
of Americans said things were worse and 33 percent said they
had improved. Reagan won re-election in a landslide in 1984. In
the final months of  George W. Bush ’s presidency, as the
financial crisis intensified, Americans said by a 2-to-1 margin
that their financial situation had deteriorated, compared with
a year earlier.  Americans in the poll also oppose Republican lawmakers’
calls to extend tax cuts for upper-income Americans beyond the
end of 2010. Obama reluctantly agreed to a two-year extension
of those cuts as part of a compromise package that also
retained breaks for the middle class.  Sixty-six percent say the nation is headed in the wrong
direction. That’s up from 62 percent who felt that way in an
October poll and is the worst reading since the Bloomberg
National Poll began in September 2009.  Unemployment Is Top Issue  Unemployment and jobs are the most important issue facing
the country now, the poll finds. Fifty percent of those
surveyed identified joblessness as their top concern, twice the
number who chose the federal  budget deficit  and government
spending.  Members of Obama’s Democratic Party are about evenly split
on the question of whether they are doing better than two years
ago. Republicans and political independents are more downbeat.
More than 60 percent of Republicans say they’re doing worse
under Obama. Just over 50 percent of political independents
feel that way, compared with a third who say their situation
has improved.  Obama, 49, inherited an economy in deep crisis. While it
has started to recover -- showing 3.2 percent growth over the
past year -- unemployment has remained high. Joblessness rose
to a seven-month high of  9.8 percent  in November, significantly
above the 7.4 percent rate that prevailed in December 2008, the
month before Obama was inaugurated.  Stock Market Gains  The stock market has performed much better. The  Standard
and Poor’s 500 Index  has risen more than 50 percent since Obama
was sworn in Jan. 20, 2009.  “After looking at all the politicians and all the
policies, they’re not geared toward Americans. They’re geared
toward the corporations,” says Ken Cmar, a 45-year-old poll
respondent residing in Crystal River, Florida.  He says his business aligning wheels on vehicles has
shrunk as trucking companies and municipalities with bus fleets
have cut back. “It’s that trickle-down economic thing and I’m
at the wrong end,” Cmar says.  By age group, only the young -- those under 35, a core
constituency for Obama in his presidential bid -- consider
themselves better off than they were two years ago.  ‘Naivete of Youth’  The young often show a greater “sense that things are
getting better for them than we see for older respondents,”
says J.  Ann Selzer , president of  Selzer & Co ., a Des Moines,
Iowa-based firm that conducted the nationwide survey. “Maybe
that is the sweet naivete of youth or, more likely, they are
building their careers and things are, in fact, getting better
for them.”  While Democrats and political independents agree that
unemployment is the top issue, Republicans are about evenly
split between jobs and the  budget deficit , which totaled $1.29
trillion in the fiscal year ended Sept. 30.  “The  deficit  is outrageous,” says poll respondent Lisa
Brandel, a 36-year-old free-lance writer in Bellefontaine,
Ohio. “But the root of the problem is that we need more jobs.
If we get better employment, more people will be paying taxes
and the deficit will go down.”  On the tax cuts, the survey conducted before, during and
after the negotiations between the White House and
congressional Republicans this week, shows that only a third of
Americans support keeping the lower rates for the highest
earners.  Tax Cuts  Another third say they want only the tax cuts for the
middle class to be extended, while more than a fourth say all
the tax cuts should be allowed to expire Dec. 31, as scheduled.  The agreement Obama announced Dec. 6 would temporarily
sustain the tax reductions for all income levels. The president
said the compromise was needed to break a deadlock with
Republicans who vowed to block tax cuts for middle-income
Americans if those for individuals earning more than $200,000
and couples earning more than $250,000 weren’t extended, too.  The Bloomberg National survey of 1,000 U.S. adults has a
margin of error of plus or minus 3.1 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Rich Miller  in
Washington   rmiller28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  