-- Household Wealth in U.S. Rose by $1.2 Trillion in Third Quarter, Fed Says
-- B y   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n
-- 2010-12-09T19:56:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/household-wealth-in-u-s-rose-by-1-2-trillion-in-third-quarter-fed-says.html
Household wealth in the U.S. rose by
$1.2 trillion in the third quarter as share prices jumped in
response to an improving economy.  Net worth for households and non-profit groups increased at
a 9.1 percent annual pace to $54.9 trillion after dropping at a
9.9 percent rate in the previous three months, according to the
Federal Reserve’s Flow of Funds report issued today in
Washington. American families also cut debt for a 10th
consecutive quarter.  Rising wealth and falling debt are putting consumers
further down the road toward improving their personal finances
following the worst recession since the 1930s, one reason why
spending has picked up. The report also showed that a drop in
home prices limited the gain in net worth, indicating
residential real estate remains a risk to the outlook.  “Households are still shoring up, cleaning up their
balance sheets, getting to a level they’re more comfortable with
and that’s an ongoing process,” said  Julia Coronado , chief
economist for North America at BNP Paribas in New York, who
worked on the report as a Fed economist.  “Housing has now
become a headwind.”  The increase in net wealth fell short of making up for the
second quarter’s $1.4 trillion loss. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 
Index rose 11 percent during the three months ended Sept. 30,
after dropping 12 percent from April through June.  Fewer Claims  The number of workers filing first-time claims for
unemployment insurance payments fell more than forecast last
week, showing the labor market continues to improve, a report
from the Labor Department also showed today. Applications for
 jobless benefits  decreased to 421,000 from a revised 438,000 the
prior week. The four-week  moving average , a less-volatile
measure, dropped to the lowest level in more than two years.  Stocks swung between gains and losses as Democratic
opposition to President Barack Obama’s tax agreement with
Republicans offset investor optimism over the job market. The
S&P 500 rose 0.2 percent to 1,230.12 at 2:55 p.m. in New York.  The value of household holdings of corporate equities
increased by $977.6 billion in the third quarter, today’s report
showed. Real-estate holdings dropped by $747.4 billion, the
biggest decline since the first three months of 2009, when the
economy was still in a recession. The economic slump ended in
June 2009.  Home Prices  Home values may keep falling in coming months as a jobless
rate hovering near 10 percent causes foreclosures to mount. The
S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 U.S. fell 0.8
percent in September from the  prior month  and 15 cities showed a
year-over-year decline.  Owners’ equity as a share of their total real-estate
holdings decreased to 38.8 percent last quarter from 40.8
percent in the second three months of the year. The measure
reached a high of 59.7 percent at the height of the housing boom
in 2005.  Americans have cut debt and increased savings as they cope
with an  unemployment rate  that has stayed above 9 percent for
almost two years. The jobless rate climbed to 9.8 percent in
November, the Labor Department said last week. Companies added
50,000 positions to payrolls, the smallest increase in six
months.  Outlook Improving  Economists have boosted their projections for growth next
year amid evidence of improved consumer spending and sustained
factory growth, as well as the Obama administration’s agreement
with Congressional Republicans on extending Bush-era tax cuts.
The proposed deal, announced Dec. 6, also includes a break on
payroll taxes and an extension of emergency unemployment
benefits for another year.  Consumer spending  rose at a 2.8 percent annual rate in the
third quarter, the fastest pace of growth in almost four years,
according to Commerce Department data. Corporate profits have
risen every quarter since the first three months of 2009 and
were up 2.8 percent from July through September.  Today’s Fed report showed companies had $1.93 trillion in
cash and other liquid assets at the end of the third quarter, a
record. Companies spent more on plant and equipment in the third
quarter. The so-called financing gap -- the amount of money used
for capital spending less what companies raised internally --was
a $127.9 billion, the most in at least the past two years.  Less Debt  Consumer debt dropped at a 1.7 percent annual pace in the
third quarter, the smallest decrease since the first three
months of 2009, today’s report showed. Mortgage borrowing fell
at a 2.5 percent pace, while other forms of consumer credit
decreased 1.5 percent.  Total borrowing by consumers, businesses and government
agencies excluding financial firms increased at an annual rate
of 4.2 percent last quarter, led by a 16 percent gain for the
federal government. Borrowing by businesses increased 1.7
percent.  Banks including Bank of America Corp. and Citigroup Inc.
have said they’re increasing their focus on small business
lending. Citigroup said Nov. 15 it planned to hire 200 bankers
by the end of 2011 to court businesses with less than $20
million of annual sales.  To contact the report on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington at 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  