-- Toyota Will Face Acceleration Injury Cases Under Tentative Order
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   B i l l   C a l l a h a n
-- 2010-12-09T20:48:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/toyota-must-face-injury-cases-judge-says-in-tentative-ruling.html
Toyota Motor Corp.  will have to face
lawsuits claiming deaths and personal injuries caused by
unintended sudden acceleration of its vehicles if a tentative
ruling by a federal judge in California becomes final.  Lawyers for injured customers and families of those killed
in accidents provided sufficient evidence to allow their cases
to go forward, U.S. District Judge  James V. Selna  in Santa Ana,
California, said in a tentative ruling yesterday. Selna earlier
denied Toyota’s motion to dismiss class-action, or group, suits
claiming economic losses related to sudden acceleration.  The automaker is accused in the lawsuits of failing to
disclose or warn of a defect in its vehicles that could cause
sudden acceleration. Toyota said in court filings that the
plaintiffs didn’t offer specific allegations of an actual defect
and that the company didn’t conceal anything.  “Toyota demands a level of specificity that is not
required at the pleadings stage,” Selna wrote in his tentative
order. “The defect is identified: plaintiffs’ cars suddenly and
unexpectedly accelerate and do not stop upon proper application
of the brake pedal.”  Selna said he wouldn’t dismiss fraud allegations against
Toyota related to sudden unintended acceleration, or SUA, citing
claims by the plaintiffs. “Rather than disclosing the SUA
defects to consumers, Toyota often blamed consumers for SUA-
related problems,” he wrote.  8 Million Vehicles  The company, based in Toyota City, Japan, has recalled more
than 8 million vehicles for repairs related to sudden unintended
acceleration. In September 2009, the automaker announced a
recall of 3.8 million Toyota and Lexus vehicles because of a
defect that may cause floor mats to jam accelerator pedals. The
company later recalled vehicles over defects involving the
pedals themselves.  “These rulings are only tentative and come at a stage of
the legal proceedings in which the judge has to accept that what
the plaintiffs allege are true, even though they are
unproven,”  Celeste Migliore , a Toyota spokeswoman, said in an
e-mail today. “We are confident that as the facts develop in
this case they will show that there are no defects in these
Toyota vehicles.”  Toyota faces about 400 lawsuits alleging lost vehicle value
or injury or death from sudden acceleration.  Selna heard arguments today about his tentative ruling.
Federal lawsuits claiming death or injury caused by sudden
acceleration are combined in his court as part of the MDL, or
multi-district litigation. Selna took the matter under
submission and didn’t indicate when he would issue a final
ruling.  ‘More Information’  “I understand that at the pleading stage you were not
going to dismiss them but we are trying to force the plaintiffs
to give us a little more information,” Vincent Galvin, a Toyota
attorney, told the judge today.  Galvin said he didn’t expect the cases to be dismissed with
prejudice, which would have meant they couldn’t be refiled. The
plaintiffs’ complaints lack important details about alleged
accidents, and granting Toyota’s dismissal motions would have
forced them to be more specific, he said.  “Many of these complaints are forms that are used in one
case after another,” Galvin told the judge. The complaints
typically say, “Vehicle suddenly accelerated, I braked and it
did not stop,” he said. “It is reasonable to request that they
plead more facts.  Toyota “is encouraged that the court considers our
framework for managing the MDL, including bellwether trials, to
be a reasonable approach, because it will bring closure to the
critical science issues,” Migliore said in an e-mail after the
hearing. “We’re also pleased that we can move forward with
depositions of selective plaintiffs to bring forth the actual
facts of their cases.”  The judge is rejecting almost all of Toyota’s arguments,
except for a few minor claims by that can be refiled later, said
Mark Robinson, one of the lead lawyers for plaintiffs in the
personal injury and death cases.  “If the judge finalizes this important tentative ruling,
the plaintiffs’ ship is sailing at full speed with a prevailing
wind,” he said yesterday in a phone interview.  The cases are combined as In re Toyota Motor Corp.
Unintended Acceleration Marketing, Sales Practices and Products
Liability Litigation, 8:10-ml-02151, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Santa Ana).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at
   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
 Bill Callahan  in San Diego at 
 callahan@san.rr.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 