-- Palestinians Make Peace With Israelis When Scoring Goals Is Most at Stake
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2010-12-09T23:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/palestinians-make-peace-with-israelis-when-scoring-goals-is-most-at-stake.html
Yuval Davda once thought all
Palestinians wanted to harm her. Now, the 12-year-old Israeli is
learning Arabic to talk with Palestinian friends.  The change came in three years with the  Twinned Peace Sport
Schools , the oldest and largest operation using athletics to
promote interaction between Israeli and Palestinian children.
Its ninth season started in September.  “I’ve come a long way, and I am proud of myself and the
project for helping me understand that Palestinians are no
different from us,” Davda wrote in an e-mail. “Perhaps if we
worked together more we would be able to get closer to creating
peace among our communities.”  Managed by the  Peres Center for Peace  in Tel Aviv and the
 Al-Quds Association for Democracy and Dialogue  in the West Bank,
the schools challenge stereotypes in a region enveloped by
conflict for decades. The latest high-level effort to get the
sides talking, spearheaded by U.S. President  Barack Obama , broke
down when an Israeli freeze on West Bank settlement building
expired in late September and the Palestinians refused to
continue negotiations until it was renewed.  Both the Peres Center and Al-Quds Association are non-
profit organizations and Twinned Peace is entirely donor-driven.
It costs $100,000 a year to run a pair of schools, including
equipment, travel costs and coaches’ salaries, Peres Center
spokeswoman Inbal Yohanan wrote in an e-mail. The program, which
runs 11 such twin schools, recently launched a  600 Goals
fundraising  campaign aimed at securing enough money for the 2011
year.  “These children are the future of our land,” said
Sacramento Kings forward  Omri Casspi , 22, who grew up outside
Tel Aviv and visited a Twinned Peace basketball camp in
September. “When they are adults they are going to have bonds
and friendships with each other. It’s invaluable.”  Soccer, Basketball  More than 2,400 children in  22 schools  have taken part in
the program, which offers soccer and basketball. It targets
Palestinian and Israeli towns where cooperation usually is an
afterthought, Peres Center director of sport Tami Hay-Sagiv
said.  “This conflict will not solve itself, and we need to take
the initiative to find creative ways to break the barriers
between both sides,” Sulaiman Khatib, 38-year-old director of
the Al-Quds Association, said in a telephone interview.  The Israeli government began construction on a proposed
491-mile (790 kilometer) concrete fence along the West Bank
border in 2003. The barrier and its security checkpoints were
designed to halt the increase of suicide bombings, which killed
447 Israeli citizens from 2001 to 2003, according to a  2007
study  conducted by the  Intelligence and Terrorism Information
Center .  Sports, Language, Peace  Children in Twinned Peace participate in biweekly sports
training, language lessons and peace discussions at schools in
their own communities. Once a month, Palestinian children cross
the barrier to their twinned school --Israeli law prohibits
entrance into the West Bank, Hay-Sagiv said -- where they
integrate teams and play. The most recent of the joint
activities, held on Nov. 28, included a visit by retired Italian
goalkeeper  Francesco Toldo .  Before joining her basketball school, 13-year-old Stav
Khuato said she despised Palestinians for attacking her town of
Sderot with Qassam rockets. Nadine Walled Elias Abu Saada, 14,
said she believed Palestinian media coverage that said Israelis
were her enemy. Both now communicate with friends across the
barrier through e-mail or Facebook.  Yohanan said that in addition to affecting the lives and
opinions of the students, a Peres Center study concluded that
the joint activities had an effect on the beliefs and attitudes
of many of the children’s families and friends. On Dec. 2 the
program was named Non Governmental Organization of the Year at
the  Peace and Sport  award ceremony in Monaco.  World Cup  In June, Twinned Peace sent four Palestinians and four
Israelis, split evenly between boys and girls, to soccer’s World
Cup in South Africa to compete in the  Football for Hope  youth
tournament. The “Peace Team” won four of six games.  “Peace is very achievable if we work together,” Abed
Elrahman Badareen, a 16-year-old Palestinian member of the team,
said through a translator in an e-mail. “When the younger
generations look at us playing together, they will defiantly
follow our footsteps and continue in the path of peace.”  Khatib was 14 when he was arrested and jailed for 10 years
for fighting with the Palestinian resistance. Hay-Sagiv first
met Palestinians during her time in the Israeli army from 1998
to 2002.  “During my army service, I realized that Palestinians live
30 minutes from me and the only chance I have to interact with
them is when I am wearing my uniform,” Hay-Sagiv, 30, said in a
telephone interview. “This is a mistake.”  Equal Sides  Hay-Sagiv and Khatib speak daily to ensure that the 1,500
participants receive identical experiences, from training
schedules to practice jerseys.  Khatib said he understood the potential on his very first
day, when “I saw the kids playing together and could not see
who was Palestinian and who was Israeli.”  The Palestinian schools are often delayed at barrier
checkpoints, Khatib said, which cuts into the time that children
spend together. Palestinian soccer coach Kamal Abu Althom said
checkpoints within the West Bank cause trouble as well, and none
of the 14 Palestinian schools involved operate in Gaza because
of the politics of Hamas, its ruling party.  “Hamas believes that Israelis are our enemies, that we
should not interact with them in any way,” Abu Althom, 26,
said. “They will never believe in Israel and believe in
peace.”  Hamas in Gaza  Hamas, which controls Gaza, is considered a terrorist
organization by the U.S., European Union and Israel. It seized
full control of the coastal enclave in 2007, ending a power-
sharing arrangement with the Fatah party of Palestinian
Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas , after winning parliamentary
elections the previous year.  The 2008-09 Gaza War, a three-week conflict that killed 13
Israelis and at least 1,100 Palestinians, created so much
tension that the schools stopped meeting. In January 2009, as
defense helicopters patrolled the skies of Timorim in central
Israel, 15 Israeli coaches met for a two-hour discussion on the
program’s future.  ‘Can’t Stop’  “At first the coaches were afraid,” Hay-Sagiv said.
“They did not want to meet the Palestinians anymore. But after
a long talk they said, ‘If we stop this, Tami, it will be that
we didn’t accomplish anything in the past six years.’”  About 45 miles away in Ramallah, the Palestinian coaches
agreed that the bloodshed and political situation only made
their mission more important. The schools rejoined the following
month with a group discussion about the war.  “One boy told us that he was sitting at home watching his
father screaming at the TV to kill all the Palestinians,” Hay-
Sagiv said. “And he said, ‘Father, I have a Palestinian friend,
you cannot say something like this.’ That was a ‘wow’ moment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eben Novy-Williams  in New York 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net . 