-- Palm Oil Prices to Rise 11% as China Buys to Rebuild Inventory, Patel Says
-- B y   T h o m a s   K u t t y   A b r a h a m
-- 2010-12-09T04:43:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/palm-oil-prices-to-rise-11-as-china-buys-to-rebuild-inventory-patel-says.html
Palm oil prices may climb 11 percent
to the highest level in almost three years on increased imports
by China and as dry weather hurts soybean planting in Argentina,
according to  Govindlal G. Patel , director of GGN International.  Futures may advance to as much as 4,000 ringgit ($1,272) a
metric ton by March, Patel said in an interview from Rajkot in
western India. A seasonal decline in output in Malaysia, the
second-biggest producer, will contribute to the gains, he said.  Palm oil has rallied 36 percent this year, headed for its
second straight annual advance, on optimism that rising demand
in China may strain global supplies curbed by rain and drought
in producing nations. Global demand for eight vegetable oils
will exceed output for the first time in eight years in 2010-
2011 and China’s import reliance is at “an alarming level,”
Oil World said in a Nov. 19 report.  “China, I believe, is already buying large quantities to
rebuild stockpiles and prices will stay firm,” said Patel, who
has been trading vegetable oils for more than three decades.
“The already-low inventories will be drawn down further.”  February-delivery futures rose as much as 1.3 percent to
3,640 ringgit, a 29-month high, and traded at 3,617 ringgit at
12:13 p.m. on the Malaysia Derivatives Exchange.  China, the biggest user of commodities, has pledged to
control prices by cracking down on the use of bank credit to
speculate in agricultural markets and by selling soybeans and
vegetable oil from state reserves.  The biggest buyer of soybeans is expected to import 57
million tons in the year from Oct. 1, up 13 percent from a year
ago, the U.S. Department of Agriculture data show. Imports may
exceed 14.2 million tons from October through December, up 4
million tons from a year earlier, Oil World said this week.  La Nina  Heavy rains caused by a La Nina weather event have reduced
oil-palm yields in Indonesia and Malaysia, the top producers. La
Nina has also caused drought that curbed South American planting
of soybeans, threatening global edible oil supplies and driving
prices higher. Malaysia’s production dropped 1 percent to 14.3
million tons in the first 10 months of the year, according to
data from the nation’s palm oil board.  “The yield and quality of palm oil output in Malaysia will
be affected because of excess rain,” said Patel. “The increase
in output next year won’t be sufficient to meet demand.”  Soybean output in Argentina, the third-biggest shipper, may
decline to 52 million tons in the year starting April 1 from an
estimated 54.5 million tons this year, the Foreign Agricultural
Service said in a report on Dec. 6. Exports may fall to 11.5
million tons from 14.7 million tons, according to the report  “While concerns about weather in Brazil have eased, the
Argentine soybean crop is still under threat from dry weather,”
Patel said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Kutty Abraham  in Mumbai at 
 tabraham4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  