-- Panamericano Posts Biggest Two-Day Drop Since Probe After Reserves Lifted
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 2010-12-09T17:26:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/panamericano-posts-biggest-two-day-drop-since-probe-after-reserves-lifted.html
Banco Panamericano SA  tumbled for the
biggest two-day decline in almost a month on concern central
bank measures to tighten liquidity will hurt profits, raise
funding costs and slow consumer loan growth.  Panamericano, which focuses on auto, credit-card and
payroll lending,  sank  4.6 percent to 3.98 reais in the biggest
two-day drop since the days after the central bank said last
month it is investigating the company for alleged fraud in its
accounting practices.  Brazil’s central bank said on Dec. 3 it raised reserve and
capital requirements to slow consumer lending that’s growing 20
percent annually and to prevent a credit bubble. Banks also will
be required to use more capital to back consumer loans that
exceed 24 months.  “It’s a very delicate moment for smaller banks with the
central bank being more careful with credit, and it’s just more
dramatic with Panamericano because of all the questions
regarding the investigation,” said  Marco Aurelio Barbosa , an
analyst at Coinvalores CCVM in Sao Paulo.  Banco Cruzeiro do Sul SA  sank 2.3 percent to 14.75 reais.
Moody’s Investors Service cut their outlook on their Ba ratings
to negative from stable for four Brazilian banks -- Banco BMG
SA, Banco Cruzeiro do Sul, Banco Bonsucesso SA and Banco Schahin
SA. Profits may be hurt after capital requirements were
increased for long-term vehicle financing and loans deducted
from payroll income, Moody’s wrote.  The central bank measures will likely require these banks
to increase their costs to raise capital and may slow their loan
growth because of “tighter liquidity,” the analysts wrote.  These banks’ “franchises may be negatively affected over
the next months by the Brazilian central bank’s recently
announced macro-prudential measures,” Moody’s analysts wrote.  Panamericano  has plummeted  42 percent since Nov. 9 after
regulators found accounting irregularities that sparked a 2.5
billion-real ($1.5 billion) rescue by controlling shareholder
Grupo Silvio Santos, which was funded by the nation’s deposit
insurance agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Ragir  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  