-- Pete Sampras Is Offered Replica of Stolen Davis Cup Trophies by Federation
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2010-12-09T13:21:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/pete-sampras-is-offered-replica-of-stolen-davis-cup-trophies-by-federation.html
The  International Tennis Federation 
will offer former world No. 1  Pete Sampras  a replica of his
stolen Davis Cup trophies.  Sampras, whose 14 major championships are second in men’s
tennis history to  Roger Federer ’s 16, was robbed of most of the
trophies he won throughout his playing career, the Los Angeles
Times reported yesterday.  Sampras, 39, told the newspaper that while he still has 13
of his Grand Slam awards, he lost “everything else,” when
dozens of boxes were stolen from a public storage facility in
west Los Angeles. Items included trophies for his first
 Australian Open  title as well as two  Davis Cup  wins.  “We were sorry to learn of the theft,”  Francesco Ricci Bitti , president of the London-based International Tennis
Federation, said in a statement. “We know how special a Davis
Cup victory is for a player, and if he is unable to recover the
loss of his two Davis Cup trophies we would like to offer him a
replica trophy in recognition of his outstanding record in the
event.”  Sampras won the Davis Cup, the ITF’s elite team competition
for men, with the U.S. in 1992 and 1995 with victories over
Switzerland and Russia, respectively.  Australian Open organizers also expressed their regret
about the theft. Sampras won the first of his two Australian
Open titles in 1994.  “We have been in touch with the Sampras camp overnight
just to see if there is anything we can do,” tournament
director  Craig Tiley  said in an e-mailed statement. “We are
keen to help out one of our great champions in whatever way we
can.”  ‘Very Valuable’  “It is a very valuable trophy but its worth goes far
beyond dollars and cents,” Tiley said.  Sampras said none of the trophies or memorabilia was
insured because there was no way to assess their value.  He and his family recently moved and rented two storage
units, the Times said. Items stolen also included awards for
winning 64  ATP Tour  events and reaching the finals of 24 others;
trophies from his five season-ending ATP World Tour titles, 11
ATP Masters event titles; an Olympic ring; and six trophies for
finishing No. 1 in tennis’s annual ranking, according to the
report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  