-- Petrobras Sell-Off Follows Gabrielli $40 Billion Debt Plan: Brazil Credit
-- B y   C a m i l a   R u s s o   a n d   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 2010-12-09T18:13:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/petrobras-sell-off-follows-gabrielli-40-billion-debt-plan-brazil-credit.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA’s bond yields
are climbing the most in 12 months after Brazil’s state-
controlled oil company said it plans to boost  debt  by as much as
60 percent to $107 billion over the next four years.  The yield on the company’s 5.75 percent dollar bonds due in
2020 jumped 81 basis points in the past month through yesterday
to 4.88 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Yields
on emerging-market  corporate bonds  climbed 34 basis points, or
0.34 percentage point, during the same period, JPMorgan Chase &
Co. data show.  Chief Executive Officer  Jose Sergio Gabrielli  said in Rio
de Janeiro on Dec. 7 the company plans to raise between $30
billion and $40 billion of new debt over the next four years to
finance the biggest investment plan in the oil industry.
Petrobras, which has $67 billion of total debt, hasn’t issued
bonds this year after selling $6.75 billion in international
markets in 2009, according to Bloomberg data.  “Investors are betting that they’re going to see a lot of
new supply of Petrobras debt,”  Jack Deino , who oversees about
$1.6 billion of emerging-market debt at Invesco Inc. in New
York, said in a telephone interview. “That’s why they’re
underperforming. There’s also uncertainty on when they’re going
to get the new supply and how much of it.”  Petrobras’s bonds yielded 112 basis points more than
similar-maturity government notes on Dec. 7, the biggest gap
since August, according to Bloomberg data. The company’s bonds
yield 134 basis points less than the 2020 dollar debt of OAO
Gazprom, Russia’s gas export monopoly. The yield on Gazprom’s
notes climbed 29 basis points in November, according to
Bloomberg data.  Share Sale  Rio de Janeiro-based Petrobras plans to fund investments in
coming years through bond sales and bank loans after holding the
world’s biggest stock offering in September, Gabrielli told
reporters in Sao Paulo on Dec. 6. The company, which sold $70
billion of shares on Sept. 24, aims to invest $224 billion
through 2014 to develop reserves along Brazil’s coast.  Petrobras  shares  dropped 6.7 percent in the past month,
leaving them down 31 percent this year.  The company needs to roll over $38 billion of debt through
2014 as it seeks to double production over the next decade,
Gabrielli said on Nov. 9.  Raising as much as $9 billion of new debt annually over the
next four years “wouldn’t be a big problem” for Petrobras’s
size, Gabrielli said on Dec. 7.  Petrobras doesn’t have any “defined plans” right now to
sell bonds, Gabrielli said yesterday. The company’s press office
declined to comment in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Uncertainty’  “Statements by Gabrielli have definitely had an impact,”
 Juan Cruz , a corporate bond analyst with Barclays Plc in New
York, said in a telephone interview. “Investors are demanding
to get paid more because of the uncertainty.”  The company’s $6.75 billion of overseas debt offerings in
2009 was more than the $5.55 billion it raised over the previous
10 years, according to Bloomberg data.  Brazilian President-elect  Dilma Rousseff , 62, plans to
reappoint Gabrielli, a Boston University-trained economist, as
chief executive of Petrobras, a government official briefed on
the decision said on Dec. 7. She takes office Jan. 1.  Brazil’s lower house of Congress approved on Dec. 1 new oil
regulations that will increase government control over the
energy industry and reduce competition against Petrobras. The
regulations will allow the company to be the sole operator of
oil fields where licenses haven’t yet been auctioned. Petrobras
will be able to explore every field in areas designated
“strategic.”  President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva , who sent the bill to
congress, may sign it this month.  ‘Harder To Justify’  “Even if the regulation secures assets, the risk is
actually higher because it means more spending and the cash flow
takes a few years to start coming in,”  Eduardo Suarez , an
emerging-markets strategist at RBC Capital Markets in Toronto,
said in a telephone interview. “It’s much harder to justify
Petrobras being rated higher than the government now that the
government controls 60 percent of the stock.”  Petrobras is rated Baa1 by Moody’s Investor Service, the
third-lowest investment grade and two steps above the Brazilian
government’s Baa3 grade.  Gabrielli said in a May 3 interview in Sao Paulo that the
company doesn’t plan to sell bonds this year because it’s
reaching the “upper limits” of debt ratios before putting
credit ratings at risk.  Messages left for Moody’s analyst  Thomas Coleman  in New
York and  Milena Zaniboni  in Sao Paulo at S&P were not returned.  ‘Global Concerns’  Concern European countries may have to restructure their
debts after bailouts for Ireland and Greece prompted investors
to shun Petrobras’s bonds in the past few weeks, according to
 Jansen Moura , a corporate bond analyst with BCP Securities in
Rio de Janeiro.  “It has absolutely more to do with global concerns than
Petrobras fundamentals,” he said in a telephone interview. “As
soon as the market is a little bit more comfortable with
Europe’s situation and other macroeconomic points, things might
calm down a bit and yields can come back.”  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian
government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries widened 1
basis point to 169 at 1:08 p.m. New York time, according to
JPMorgan’s EMBI+ index.  The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default for
five years climbed 3 basis points yesterday to 109, according to
CMA. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Tupi, Libra  The real fell 1 percent to 1.7075 per dollar.  The yield on the overnight interest-rate futures contract
due in January 2012 fell 9 basis points to 11.98 percent.  Petrobras is developing the offshore Tupi field and may
take a minimum stake of 30 percent in the government’s Libra
field, the Americas’ biggest oil discoveries since Mexico’s
Cantarell in 1976. Tupi and Libra, which may hold as much as 8
billion barrels and 15 billion barrels, respectively, are in a
deep-water region known as the pre-salt along Brazil’s coast.  The company will invest about $7 billion to $8 billion
through 2014 in deepwater fields that it purchased from the
government in exchange for new stock, Chief Financial Officer
 Almir Barbassa  said last month.  Petrobras’s bonds are also lagging behind Brazilian
corporate bonds in the past month. Yields on debt sold by
 Brazilian companies  climbed 37 basis points during that period,
according to JPMorgan.  “Changes to the capital expenditure program will be the
most important factor moving forward,” RBC’s Suarez said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Camila Russo  in New York at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net ;
 Tal Barak Harif  in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  