-- Pfizer's Kindler to Get $9.6 Million in Severence, Bonus After Departure
-- B y   T o m   R a n d a l l
-- 2010-12-09T22:26:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/pfizer-says-former-ceo-kindler-to-get-4-51-million-as-severance.html
Pfizer Inc. , the world’s biggest
drugmaker, said former Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Kindler 
will receive about $9.6 million in severance, bonus and short-
term incentive pay for 2010.  The payment includes $4.51 million for severance and $5.05
million in awards for 2010 performance. Kindler also will get
retirement pay valued at about $6.9 million, the New York-based
company said today in a regulatory filing. All of Kindler’s
stock and short-term awards may be recovered by Pfizer within a
year if he “engages in an activity harmful to the company,”
New York-based Pfizer said in the filing.  Pfizer underperformed its rivals over the 4 1/2 years of
Kindler’s tenure. The stock dropped 35 percent under his
leadership, and the company’s  price-earnings ratio  for the past
year is lower than 91 percent of pharmaceutical industry peers
and below 97 percent of companies in the  Standard & Poor’s 500
index.   Kindler resigned Dec. 5 and was replaced as Pfizer CEO by
 Ian C. Read , 57. Read’s pay hasn’t been determined, according to
the filing. Kinder in recent months lost support of executives
frustrated with his management style, according to a person
familiar with the proceedings who asked not to be named because
the deliberations were private.  Generic Competition  Over the next five years, Pfizer faces generic competition
to products with $20 billion in annual sales, or almost one-
third of the company’s annual revenue. The drugmaker moved to
make up for the expected losses under Kindler by acquiring Wyeth
for $68 billion last year.  Pfizer rose 4 cents, or less than a percent, to $16.76 at 4
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading . The stock has
lost 8.1 percent in the past 12 months.  Kindler has additional stock and options based on the
performance of the company, the value of which haven’t been
determined, Pfizer said in the filing.  Joan Campion , a spokeswoman for Pfizer, declined to comment
on the filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Randall  in New York at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 