-- Pfizer, Novartis, AstraZeneca Cancer Drugs Raise Heart Risks, Study Says
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2010-12-09T15:15:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/pfizer-novartis-astrazeneca-cancer-drugs-raise-heart-risks-study-says.html
Pfizer Inc. ’s breast-cancer drug
Aromasin and similar treatments from  AstraZeneca Plc  and
 Novartis AG  make women 26 percent more likely to develop heart
disease than an older therapy, a study found.  The trial, presented today at the  San Antonio Breast Cancer
Symposium  in Texas, suggests that women already at risk for
cardiac conditions should limit use of these drugs, researchers
said. Tamoxifen, a generic alternative approved in 1977, carries
less risk of heart complications, the study found.  Aromasin, AstraZeneca’s Arimidex, and Femara from Novartis,
are in a family of medicines known as aromatase inhibitors that
work by halting production of estrogen, a hormone that fuels
cancer growth. These drugs generated more than $3.5 billion last
year, often used after tamoxifen, which prevents tumor cells
from using estrogen. Two thirds of all breast-cancers are fed by
estrogen, according to the  National Institutes of Health .  “It appears that aromatase inhibitors have a significant
increase in cardiotoxic side effects, such as heart attack,
angina and heart failure,” said Eitan Amir, a senior fellow in
oncology and hematology at the Princess Margaret Hospital in
Toronto, in a statement. “Switching drugs may reduce the side
effects.”  Heart disease is the  leading cause  of death in women,
killing almost 433,000 annually, according to the  American Heart
Association . An estimated 209,000 women will be  diagnosed  with
breast cancer this year, making it the most common tumor type in
women, according to the  American Cancer Society . More than
40,000 women die from it each year.  Heart, Fracture Risk  Women who took aromatase inhibitors were 26 percent more
likely to have heart disease and 47 percent more likely to
suffer a fracture than those on tamoxifen, regardless of how
long they took the medicine, an analysis of seven studies used
to win approval of the drugs found. The research was conducted
in older, post-menopausal women with early breast cancer.
Patients on tamoxifen were more likely to develop endometrial
cancer and dangerous blood clots in the legs during the studies.
There was a suggestion that women who switched to aromatase
inhibitors after starting on  tamoxifen  were less likely to die
from something other than breast cancer than those who started
treatment with the medicines. The approach didn’t seem to reduce
the risk of serious side effects, the researchers said.  Drug Sales  Pfizer, based in New York, reported revenue of $483 million
from Aromasin last year. London-based AstraZeneca had sales of
$1.92 billion for Arimidex. Novartis, of Basel, Switzerland,
generated $1.27 billion from Femara in 2009.  A second study today found Pfizer’s Aromasin worked as well
as AstraZeneca’s Arimidex, the market leader with $1.9 billion
in sales last year. The researchers originally hypothesized that
Aromasin, currently used a second-line therapy, may be more
effective with fewer side effects than Arimidex. They conducted
the first head-to-head comparison of the medicines to identify
any differences.  More than 7,500 women participated in the study, which was
funded by the National Cancer Institute in the U.S. and the
International Breast Cancer Study Group in Europe. Women taking
Aromasin were less likely to have osteoporosis and elevated
cholesterol levels, and had higher rates of mood changes and
signs of reduced liver function.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michelle Fay Cortez  in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  