-- Poland Should Raise Rates to Show `Hawkish' Credentials, Bratkowski Says
-- B y   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 2010-12-09T07:31:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/poland-should-raise-interest-rates-within-three-months-bratkowski-says.html
Poland’s central bank should start
raising interest rates within three months to damp inflation,
said policy maker  Andrzej Bratkowski , who last month surprised
markets by backing away from calls for a preemptive increase.  The bank should implement a series of increases, boosting
the  benchmark rate  by as much as 1 percentage point over the
next year, after missing the chance to keep borrowing and wage
pressures in check with one big jump, Bratkowski said yesterday.  “Markets have stopped believing that we’re hawkish,” he
said in an interview. To slow lending growth “we have to act
several months in advance, and even more lead-time is needed if
we want to curb wage increases. Our options are to act now or
wait two or three months.” The next rate meeting is Dec. 22-23.  Policy makers have kept their  seven-day rate  at a record-
low 3.5 percent since June 2009 to avoid undermining economic
growth, helping make Poland the only European Union country to
avert a recession last year. Hungary’s central bank unexpectedly
raised rates last week to control prices after the government
levied special taxes on industry and cut personal income taxes.  Poland’s  consumer-price index  rose to an eight-month high
of 2.8 percent in October, driven by food and energy costs.
While that exceeded the central bank’s target of 2.5 percent,
some policy makers have focused on core inflation, which strips
out volatile food and fuel prices and has remained close to a
three-year low of 1.2 percent since July.  ‘Markets Don’t Believe’  The Monetary Policy Council has been split between policy
makers who said higher rates would attract speculative capital,
strengthening the zloty and threatening an export-led recovery,
and those who argued increases were needed to fight inflation as
the economy grows. The panel in August voted 6-4 against a rate
increase, according to the most recent breakdown available.  “The markets basically don’t believe that the 2.5 percent
inflation target is very important to us,” said Bratkowski, a
58-year-old former deputy central bank governor.  “I have come to the conclusion that since the concept of a
strong response to inflationary expectations failed, we need to
work out a policy of compromise and look for a consensus so our
decisions are not only the result of counting votes.”  Traders of three-month forward rate agreements are pricing
in a 38 basis-point increase in benchmark borrowing costs, based
on the rate of 4.26 percent compared with the three-month  Warsaw
Interbank Offered Rate  of 3.90 percent. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  Growth Outlook  If Poland’s economic recovery proves to be strong, the
central bank will have to raise rates by a minimum of 50 to 75
basis points, with a 100 basis point increase needed to
“prevent us from falling behind,” Bratkowski said.  Gross domestic product  expanded an annual 4.2 percent in
the second quarter, the fastest in two years, as consumer demand
boosted investment.  Industrial output  has grown for 12
consecutive months, boosting  employment  and retail sales. The
central bank forecasts GDP will grow 3.5 percent in 2010 and 4.3
percent in 2011.  “ The problem lies in companies’ inflation expectations as
they face no foreign competition at the moment and can see that
the central bank isn’t changing rates while production costs are
rising,” Bratkowski said. “That’s why I believe we should
start the tightening cycle a bit earlier than analysis of the
demand gap would require, to signal that we are vigilant.”  The sovereign debt crisis in the euro region may change
this calculation because it could trigger a depreciation in the
zloty, Bratkowski said.  Zloty Weakens  Poland’s currency slid to the weakest level in more than
four months Nov. 29 on concern that the European Union will fail
to contain the crisis and austerity measures planned by some
governments will stunt economic growth.  The zloty has lost 2.7 percent against the euro in the past
month, the most among the 25 emerging-market currencies tracked
by Bloomberg. It strengthened to 4.0236 per euro by 8:30 a.m. in
Warsaw from 4.0289 late yesterday.  “The whole logic changes if major problems crop up abroad
and we see big fluctuations in the exchange rate,” Bratkowski
said. “Here we’d need to operate through the exchange rate to
prevent a strong depreciation of the zloty, or else find a way
to cushion the external shock, possibly even by relaxing
monetary policy.”  If the EU succeeds in stemming the turmoil or it is limited
to a crisis of confidence on financial markets and doesn’t hurt
the economies of Poland’s trading partners, then the central
bank should move ahead with rate increases, Bratkowski said.  “We don’t know how the situation is going to develop,” he
said. “But since we generally agree that the zloty is
fundamentally undervalued, it’s better to increase the chances
that it will appreciate through delicate policy tightening.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Monika Rozlal  in Warsaw 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  