-- U.K. Pound Strengthens Versus Euro as BOE Holds Bond-Purchase Plans, Rates
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2010-12-09T17:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/pound-close-to-two-week-high-on-speculation-rate-bond-decisions-unchanged.html
The pound advanced to its strongest
level in a week against the euro after the Bank of England kept
its bond-buying program unchanged and a report showed imports
surged, signaling the U.K. recovery is being sustained.  Sterling pushed its advance over the past four trading days
to 1.4 percent against the euro. The bank’s decision was
anticipated by all 34 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Policy
makers also kept the benchmark interest rate at a record low of
0.5 percent, which was also predicted by analysts in a separate
Bloomberg survey. The U.K.  trade deficit  widened in October amid
record imports, data showed today, fuelling speculation that
consumer spending will boost demand in the economy.  “I’m a constructive optimist on the pound,” said  Jeremy Stretch , executive director of foreign-exchange strategy at
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in London. “There’s a case
to be made that the economy is doing okay, and I don’t think
there’s going to be more QE in the pipeline.”  The pound appreciated 0.1 percent to 83.84 pence per euro
as of 4:33 p.m. in London, from 83.92 yesterday. It earlier
touched 83.61, the strongest level since Dec. 1. Sterling was
0.5 percent weaker at $1.5730, after reaching the highest level
since Nov. 23.  A rally to 82 pence against the 16-nation currency next
month is a “realistic target” for sterling, Stretch said. The
median of analysts’ predictions compiled by Bloomberg is for the
pound to trade at 85 pence by the end of the first quarter.  Inflation  Government bonds advanced, with the 10-year yield falling
six basis points to 3.5 percent, while that on the two-year
security declined by five basis points, to 1.06 percent.  Britain’s currency gained 1.2 percent versus the dollar
after the bank’s previous policy meeting on Nov. 4, when it kept
rates and the bond plan unchanged. Gilts rose that day, pushing
the 10-year yield down by five basis points.  Investors raised their inflation expectations, pushing the
10-year breakeven rate, which measures the difference in yield
between conventional and inflation-linked securities, above 3
percentage points for the first time since Nov. 24.  Sterling has gained 0.8 percent in the past month,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes,
which track a basket of 10 developed-country currencies. Since
the end of 2009, Britain’s currency has lost 3.8 percent.  The U.K.’s goods-trade gap expanded to 8.5 billion pounds
from 8.4 billion pounds in September, the Office for National
Statistics said today in London. The median of 14 forecasts in a
 Bloomberg News survey  was for an 8.1 billion-pound deficit.
Exports rose 4.1 percent and imports gained 3.4 percent.  “The pound has held up fairly well, and I don’t see
anything that’s going to change that,” said  Kathleen Brooks ,
London-based research director at FOREX.com, a unit of online
currency trading company Gain Capital. “Growth is holding up
well, and that’s putting QE at the back of the shelf.”  Sterling strengthened against the euro even after a report
showed  house prices  fell last month.  Prices fell 0.1 percent, after gaining 1.8 percent in
October, Halifax, the mortgage-lending division of Lloyds
Banking Group Plc, said in a statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  