-- Pratt's Patent Claim Over Rolls-Royce Jet Engines to Get U.S. Trade Review
-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2010-12-09T16:02:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/pratt-s-patent-claim-over-rolls-royce-jet-engines-to-get-u-s-trade-review.html
A U.S. trade agency will consider a
claim that  Rolls-Royce Group Plc  is violating a patent owned by
 United Technologies Corp. ’s Pratt & Whitney jet-engine unit, a
dispute that may slow deliveries of Boeing Co.’s 787 Dreamliner.  The U.S. International Trade Commission in Washington  said 
on its website today it would review claims by Pratt & Whitney
that the Trent 900 and Trent 1000 engines made by London-based
Rolls-Royce infringe a patent for a swept-fan blade. The
investigation, which typically takes about 15 months, could
result in an order to bar U.S. imports of the engines.  The Trent 1000 has been designated by Boeing for its newest
passenger jet, which is about three years behind schedule
because of parts shortages and redesigns. Airlines that ordered
the 787 Dreamliner from Chicago-based Boeing have a choice of
the Rolls-Royce engine or the GEnx from  General Electric Co.   Pratt’s request for an exclusion order banning imports
“raises substantial public interest issues,” a Rolls-Royce
lawyer,  James Adduci  of Adduci Mastriani and Schaumberg in
Washington, said in a Nov. 22 letter to the trade commission.  The ITC should consider the effect on “conditions of
competition in the U.S. aerospace and airline industries, not to
mention the traveling public and the environment,” Adduci
wrote.  Airbus A380  The Trent 900 is designed for  Airbus SAS ’s A380, now in use
by international carriers including Sydney-based  Qantas Airways
Ltd.   The ITC case is part of a broader patent fight between the
two engine makers. At stake is a share in a market that
generated $46 billion in sales last year for the top engine
makers -- GE, Rolls-Royce and Pratt & Whitney.  As new planes are delivered in the next two decades, the
engine makers have a chance to shift market share because
service contracts for a single plane can run for decades.  Rolls-Royce sued East Hartford, Connecticut-based Pratt &
Whitney in May, claiming the GP7200 Fan Stage infringed a patent
for a design that gives the largest part of a jet engine greater
resistance to damage by foreign objects, more stability and
lower noise levels.  Complaint Amended  It later amended the complaint to add Pratt & Whitney’s
Geared TurboFan engines, as Airbus and Boeing considered getting
more efficient units on the best-selling A320 and 737 planes.  Rolls-Royce, in an e-mailed statement today, said the ITC
complaint had no merit and it would fight the allegations.  The ITC case “is an attempt to divert attention from
Rolls-Royce’s patent action against UTC which is due to be heard
next spring,” the company said. “Every time this case has been
before a federal court, Rolls-Royce has won.”  The invention also has been upheld in the U.K., France and
Germany by the European Patent Office, the company said.  Pratt & Whitney filed a mirror patent-infringement case in
federal court in New Haven, Connecticut. It also has a case
pending in the U.K. High Court in London, claiming the Trent
900, Trent 1000 and Trent XWB engines infringe a patent.  The Trent engine for the A380 competes with the GP7200
built by a venture of Pratt & Whitney and GE, the world’s
biggest jet-engine maker.  The ITC case is In the Matter of Certain Turbomachinery
Blades and Engines, 337-751, U.S. International Trade Commission
(Washington).  The September case is United Technologies Corp. v. Rolls-
Royce Plc, 10cv1523, U.S. District Court for the District of
Connecticut (New Haven). The earlier case is Rolls-Royce Plc v.
United Technologies Corp., 10cv457, U.S. District Court for the
Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rachel Layne  in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net ;
 Susan Decker  in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net . 