-- Diva Renee Fleming Takes Backstage Role at Chicago Lyric Opera
-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 2010-12-09T21:58:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/primadonna-renee-fleming-gets-new-curating-job-at-chicago-s-lyric-opera.html
Renee Fleming  will become creative
consultant to the Lyric Opera of Chicago, the company announced
this afternoon with the diva in attendance.  Fleming, 51, took time off from her concert schedule to
visit Chicago, where she made her local debut in 1993 as the
title character in Carlisle Floyd’s opera “Susannah,” about a
curvy innocent spied bathing by malicious holy rollers.  Since then, the American soprano has become the chic
superstar of the opera world, taking on more worldly roles like
the powdered Marschallin in “Der Rosenkavalier” and the
consumptive courtesan Violetta in “La traviata.”  A detailed job description accompanied the announcement of
what the company calls The Fleming Initiative, without quite
getting around to calling her the new artistic director.  The list includes promoting the company within the local
arts community, identifying a seasonal musical, various Web-
based projects with conductor Andrew Davis, the music chief,
“curating” a world premiere for the 2015-16 season, and a
little singing.  Fleming has started cutting back on staged operas, but if
her sometime colleague, tenor  Placido Domingo , who has also
mixed management and performing (not always with happy results)
is any guide, the diva could still be singing songs 20 years
hence.  Endless Fundraisers  General director William Mason, meanwhile, is set to retire
after the 2011-12 season. Fleming’s appointment curtails the
power of his successor, while adding a glamorous presence to
dreary boardroom meetings and endless fundraisers.  The company’s most recent financial statements reveal it
had a surplus of $374,474 for the year ending in April 2010
after an operating deficit of $6.4 million in the previous year.
Its chief competitor is the Metropolitan Opera, which
accommodates 3,800 seats and presents 221 performances a season,
compared with the Lyric’s 3,563 seats and 69 shows.  Fleming’s compensation was not released by the company
which said it was fully funded by several sponsors. The 2008 tax
return shows conductor Davis was paid $842,750 and general
director Mason a total of $540,919.  (Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net . 