-- China's November Property Prices Rise at Slowest Pace in a Year on Curbs
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-10T07:45:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/property-prices-in-70-chinese-metropolitan-areas-rise-7-7-from-year-ago.html
China’s property prices rose at the
slowest pace in a year in November after the government raised
the reserve-ratio requirement for banks twice and expanded
measures to limit the risk of asset bubbles.  Home  prices  in 70 cities climbed 7.7 percent from a year
earlier and increased 0.3 percent from October, the statistics
bureau said on its website today. The year-on-year advance was
slower than the 8.6 percent gain in October and the 8 percent
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of seven economists. Sales
volume increased 14.5 percent from a year earlier and
transaction values surged 18.6 percent, the report said.  “Beijing will be pleased that house price inflation is
continuing to ease,” said  Brian Jackson , a Hong Kong-based
strategist at Royal Bank of Canada. “But the pick-up in volumes
suggest that conditions are still buoyant in the property sector
and that more policy measures are required.”  An index of real-estate stocks was the only group that fell
among the five of the benchmark Shanghai Composite Index,
showing China’s measures including suspending mortgages for
third-home buyers and pledging to speed up trials of property
taxes nationwide might not be enough. The central bank raised
interest rates in October for the first time in three years on
concerns of inflation and increases in asset prices.  The  index  tracking 34 listed property companies dropped 0.1
percent at the 3 p.m. local time close, while the benchmark rose
1.1 percent.  China Vanke Co. , the country’s biggest public
traded developer, lost 0.9 percent in Shenzhen, while rival Poly
Real Estate Group Co. slipped 0.5 percent in Shanghai.  ‘Further Tightening’  “It will take more time for the effect to be more
obvious,” said  Sun Mingchun , chief economist at Daiwa
Securities Capital Markets in Hong Kong, who expects prices to
fall within a 10 percent range next year. “Clearly there are
further tightening policies in the pipeline.”  China’s sales volume climbed to 101.1 million square
meters (1.09 billion square feet), the most in 11 months, based
on Bloomberg calculations of data from the statistics bureau.  Home price growth has slowed for a seventh month since the
peak in April, when property values climbed 12.8 percent, a
record based on data that goes back to 2005. The 0.3 percent
gain in  prices  from October extends a 0.2 percent advance last
month and a 0.5 percent increase in September.  The month-on-month data “is more relevant and appears
quite modest,” said  Nicole Wong , a Hong Kong-based analyst at
CLSA Asia Pacific Markets. The 0.3 percent gain implies a 3.6
percent annual increase, which is lower than inflation, she said.
China’s consumer prices climbed 4.4 percent in October.  Beijing, Shanghai Prices  Beijing’s property prices rose 0.2 percent from the
previous month, Shanghai added 0.1 percent and those in Yueyang,
a medium-sized city in central China, climbed 2 percent. Only
six out of the 70 major cities monitored by the government
posted a drop in property prices.  Sales volume rose 9 percent in November from October, while
transaction values gained 4.1 percent, the government said. In
October, volume declined 11 percent and values dropped 7.7
percent drop from September.  China’s property investment rose 36.7 percent to 462.8
billion yuan ($69 billion) in November from a year earlier, and
increased 36.5 percent for the first 11 months of the year to
4.27 trillion yuan.  About 35 Chinese large and medium-sized cities are
overpriced by an average of 29.5 percent, the Chinese Academy of
Social Sciences, the country’s top think tank, said in a report
released Dec. 8. Seven cities, including the eastern city of
Hangzhou near Shanghai, are facing housing bubbles where homes
are 50 percent above their assessed values, the report said.  ‘Disorderly Fall’  China should raise interest rates further and impose a
property tax to curb the risk of asset bubbles and a
“disorderly fall” in home prices, according to a study by the
International Monetary Fund in a working paper this month.
Existing measures “at best only treat the symptoms of high
residential real-estate inflation and not the underlying
structural causes,” it said.  Today’s numbers came after private data indicated strength
in sales in November. SouFun Holdings Ltd., the country’s
biggest real-estate website owner, said home prices in 100
cities it monitors advanced 0.8 percent in November from October,
gaining for a second month even as the central bank raised rates.  Rising Sales  China Vanke said last week its annual revenue reached 100.1
billion yuan as of Dec. 1, reaching a target it had set for 2014,
after its November sales more than doubled from the same period
in 2009.  Agile Property Holdings Ltd. , a Guangdong-based
developer, said it met the year’s sales target by November after
a 64 percent increase last month from the same time 2009.  “The total sales targets were met, but these developers
may have been relying on growth of smaller cities rather than
the large cities,” said  Fu Qi , an analyst at China Real Estate
Information Corp., which provides property data and consulting
services, before today’s release. “The government is trying to
control the home prices, but they certainly don’t want to see
the death of developers.”  Home prices have risen for 18 straight months even as gains
slowed. That helped to draw more investors to real estate
compared with other investments, said  Liu Li-Gang , a Hong Kong-
based economist at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.  ‘Still Attractive’  “The return for property purchases is still attractive,
compared with bank deposits rates and yields of long-term
government bonds,” Liu said.  China’s  inflation  accelerated to the fastest pace in two
years in October and the 4.4 percent increase in consumer prices
exceeds the one-year bank deposit rate of 2.5 percent and the
yield on China’s benchmark 10-year  bonds , which reached 4.02
percent on Nov. 29, the highest level since September 2008.  The nation’s property market was given a stable outlook in
a Nov. 30 report by Moody’s Investors Service, which expects
developers to withstand a “moderate downward correction” in
prices in the next year following government curbs.  China leaders including President Hu Jintao will decide on
2011 policies in a three-day meeting starting today to rein in
inflation without hobbling expansion for the world’s fastest-
growing major economy.  China ordered banks to set aside larger reserves twice last
month. The  reserve ratio requirement  will climb to 18 percent
for the nation’s biggest banks, according to Bloomberg data
based on central bank statements.  -- Bonnie Cao ,  Huang Zhe . With assistance from  Li Yanping  in
Beijing. Editors:  Linus Chua ,  Malcolm Scott .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Beijing at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  