-- Q-Cells Convertible Bonds, Shares Jump After Company Books Solar Orders
-- B y   T o d d   W h i t e
-- 2010-12-09T17:32:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/q-cells-heads-for-biggest-three-day-rally-since-june-after-booking-orders.html
Q-Cells SE  convertible bonds rose the
most since the solar-power developer’s debt and equity offerings
in October as clean-energy companies rallied after booking
orders.  The stock climbed 11 percent to 2.52 euros in Germany, the
most in six months and boosting its gain to 20 percent since
Dec. 6, when Thalheim-based Q-Cells said it delivered two solar-
power facilities to clients in Ontario, Canada, and was awarded
three additional projects.  Q-Cells,  Nordex SE  and GT Solar International Inc. have
helped spark a rally in renewable-energy stocks this month as
they announced contracts or improved prospects.  The 87-member  WilderHill New Energy Global Innovation Index 
has gained in six of the last seven days and was 0.4 percent
higher as of 6:06 p.m. central European time.  Q-Cells’ share increase today helped push up its 6 3/4
percent convertible bonds by a record 6.7 percent. That cut its
yield to 12.9 percent from a record 15 percent two days ago,
according to generic prices on Bloomberg.  The company’s stockholders and bondholders have still lost
money since the company raised 256 million euros ($338 million)
in debt and equity to refinance.  Nordex  climbed 45 cents to close at 5.45 euros, up 9
percent, the top gainer on the WilderHill index. The
Norderstedt, Germany-based wind machine manufacturer, has
advanced in five of the last seven trading days. That includes a
5.4 percent gain on Dec. 1, its biggest in eight weeks, on the
day its U.S. unit won a wind-turbine order for a 75-megawatt
project from EverPower Wind Holdings Inc.  That was Nordex’s second contract from the closely held
U.S. energy company. In October, Nordex USA officially opened
its flagship U.S. wind turbine manufacturing plant in Jonesboro,
Arkansas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Todd White  in Madrid at 
 twhite2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  