-- Traders Underrate Swedish Determination to Raise Rates, Deutsche Bank Says
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2010-12-09T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/traders-underrate-riksbank-tightening-plans-deutsche-bank-says.html
Traders are wrong to underestimate
the Swedish central bank’s determination to raise interest rates
as credit risks overshadow inflation targets in shaping policy,
said  Deutsche Bank AG , the world’s biggest currency trader.  Forward-rate agreements in Sweden show traders expect the
repo rate to reach about 2.5 percent by the end 2012, compared
with the bank’s forecast for an average rate of 2.9 percent in
the last three months of that year. For late next year, traders
expect a repo rate of about 2 percent, in line with the bank’s
outlook.  Governor  Stefan Ingves  says the Riksbank needs to keep
raising interest rates to quell credit growth and stem
imbalances in the country’s housing market. Two of his board’s
six members say higher rates aren’t necessary because inflation
is below the bank’s 2 percent target. According to  Henrik Gullberg , Deutsche Bank currency strategist, the financial
crisis is forcing the Riksbank and other central banks to look
beyond inflation targeting as they search for tools to tackle
looming asset bubbles.  “We know what happens if you leave asset bubbles alone,”
Gullberg said in an interview. “History shows that the Riksbank
has been more right than the market during hiking or cutting
cycles -- the market has been too backward looking, too late to
actually start believing what the Riksbank says it will do.”  The potential for more rate increases means the currency is
poised for further appreciation, Gullberg said. Deutsche Bank
expects the krona to strengthen to below 8 against the euro
“longer-term,” compared with an average of about 9.13 this
month. Gullberg also says “the risk for bond yields is on the
upside -- there’ll be higher rates across the board.”  Housing Market  The Riksbank will probably raise the repo rate a quarter
point to 1.25 percent this month, according to Deutsche Bank and
Citigroup Inc. Policy makers meet on Dec. 14 and announce their
decision the following day.  The  repo rate  will average 1.3 percent next quarter, 2
percent in the fourth quarter of next year and 2.9 percent by
the end of 2012, according to the Riksbank’s rate path.  Sweden’s December 2012 forward-rate agreement was at 2.95
percent yesterday. The contract settles to the three-month
Stockholm interbank offered rate, which has averaged about 40
basis points more than the bank’s repo rate over the past five
years. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Gullberg isn’t the only analyst who says a bet against the
Riksbank may backfire. Societe Generale SA also says it doesn’t
make sense to trade against the bank’s forecasts.  Riksbank Right  “Recently, the Riksbank has been right in its forecasts,
so there was no big reason to bet against them,” said  David Deddouche , a foreign-exchange strategist at Societe Generale in
Paris. “It hasn’t been profitable to bet against them in the
last year at least.”  Headline inflation  accelerated 0.3 point to 1.8 percent in
November, Stockholm-based Statistics Sweden said yesterday. The
rate has lagged behind the bank’s target since December 2008.  Inflation will average 1.7 percent next year and 2.2
percent in 2012, the Riksbank estimates.  Inflation  adjusting for
the impact of mortgage costs will hover below the bank’s 2
percent target through 2013, according to the bank’s October
outlook.  By contrast, house prices have risen for 18 consecutive
three-month periods, and increased an annual 5 percent in the
October quarter, the statistics office said on Nov. 17.
 Household borrowing  has averaged 10.7 percent a month over the
past six years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Ingves said he “personally” has taken the development of
household debt into account when raising rates, warning of the
risk of financial imbalances if rates don’t continue to rise, in
a Nov. 11 speech.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kati Pohjanpalo  in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  