-- FSA Report into RBS's `Train Crash' Should be Published, Oakeshott Says
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2010-12-09T11:06:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/rbs-train-crash-report-must-be-published-oakeshott-says.html
The Liberal Democrat’s Treasury
spokesman added to pressure on the Financial Services Authority
to release a report on the bailout of  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc , calling it the “worst company train crash in British
history.”  Matthew Oakeshott , a party spokesman in the  House of Lords ,
said the public had the right to know more about the 2008 RBS
bailout. Liberal Democrat Business Secretary  Vince Cable  asked
the FSA to release the report earlier this week.  The FSA cleared RBS and former executives including ex-
Chief Executive Officer  Fred Goodwin  in the Dec. 2 report, which
faulted the bank for “a series of bad decisions” before the
financial crisis. The  FSA  said it wouldn’t take any action or
publish the contents of the review.  “When you’ve had the worst company train crash in British
history which killed tens of thousands of businesses and
hundreds of thousands of jobs we need to go into what went
wrong,” Oakeshott told BBC Radio 4’s  Today show . “I’m sure the
FSA’s lawyers can get to work, can take out the sensitive parts
and can give us all the substance of their report.”  45.5 Billion-Pound Bailout  Edinburgh-based RBS posted the biggest loss in corporate
history in 2008 and required a bailout of 45.5 billion pounds
($72 billion) following its acquisition of ABN Amro Holding NV.
The FSA was probing the 2007 takeover, conduct by RBS executives
and a 2008 rights offering. The regulator said in March 2009 it
would examine senior managers of banks that collapsed or
accepted government money.  Cable , in a letter to  Adair Turner , chairman of the FSA,
urged him to publish the confidential report into whether the
lender’s former executive broke regulatory rules in the run-up
to the 2008 bailout. In the letter, released yesterday, Cable
said he was “disappointed” the findings weren’t public.  Turner defended the decision in an  article  on the FSA’s
website yesterday and said the criticism isn’t valid and
investigations are “subject to confidentiality.”  ‘Little’ to Add  A report “looking just at the RBS story” would “likely
add little to our understanding of the key causes of the crisis
and of the crucial measures required to prevent repetition,”
Turner said. “It would reveal the same deficiencies of
regulatory philosophy already identified, under which the FSA
simply did not believe its remit included preventing the ABN
Amro acquisition.”  An FSA spokesman, Christopher Hamilton, said the regulator
wouldn’t comment beyond Turner’s article.  The results of the investigation were also met with
skepticism by some lawyers and unions.  Unite, Britain’s largest trade union, said last week the
FSA “has demonstrated its weakness and inability to hold the
sector to account” and called the conclusion “an outrage.”  The report “appears to have been conducted” by the FSA’s
supervisory division rather than its enforcement unit, said
 Harvey Dyson , a lawyer at Stephenson Harwood in London.  “It’s not clear what documents or who the investigators
had access to,” Dyson said. “The FSA has limited powers to
demand documents and attendance at interviews through its
supervision division and it doesn’t strike me as a thorough
job.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Thomas Penny  in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
 Lindsay Fortado  in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 