-- Three Ex-UBS Executives Indicted in Muni Bid Probe
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n   a n d   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2010-12-09T23:11:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/three-ex-ubs-executives-indicted-in-u-s-s-muni-bid-rigging-investigation.html
The former co-head of  UBS AG’s 
municipal derivatives group and two colleagues were indicted in
the U.S. government’s multiyear investigation of bid-rigging on
investment contracts.  Peter Ghavami , Gary Heinz and  Michael Welty  were charged
with six counts in U.S. District Court in New York, the Justice
Department said in a news release.  “The individuals charged today allegedly participated in
complex fraud schemes and conspiracies that subverted
competition in the market for municipal finance contracts and
deprived municipal bond issuers of the benefits of their
investments,” said  Christine Varney , the department’s antitrust
chief.  The Justice Department’s antitrust division has ramped up
its more than four-year criminal investigation of the $2.8
trillion municipal bond market in the past few weeks. On Dec. 7,
Bank of America Corp. agreed to pay $137 million in restitution
for its involvement in the bid-rigging conspiracy.  Ghavami, a Belgian citizen living in Moscow, was arrested
Dec. 1 after arriving at John F. Kennedy International Airport
in New York. A former  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  banker,  James Hertz ,
pleaded guilty Nov. 30.  “Peter Ghavami will plead not guilty and fight this
case,” said  James Mitchell , his lawyer, in a telephone
interview.  Heinz couldn’t be reached for comment, and Welty hung up on
a reporter.  Kelly Smith , a UBS spokeswoman in New York, declined
to comment.  Cheating Taxpayers  The Justice Department didn’t identify which company
employed Ghavami, Heinz and Welty. Records filed with the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority show they worked for
UBS.  Heinz was also charged with witness tampering in addition
to fraud and conspiracy. In 2006, after learning about the
Justice Department’s investigation, he told one conspirator to
meet with another to coordinate their stories about a rigged
deal, according to the indictment.  Since October 2009, nine bankers and brokers have been
indicted and eight pleaded guilty for cheating taxpayers by
conspiring with brokers to pay states and local government
below-market rates on investments purchased with bond proceeds.  The government has identified more than a dozen firms,
including JPMorgan, units of  General Electric Co . and  Societe
Generale SA  as unindicted co-conspirators in a criminal case
brought by the Justice Department against a Los Angeles
investment broker, according to court records.  Talking Among Themselves  The investigation centers on investment agreements that
municipalities enter into with money raised through bond sales.
The so-called guaranteed investment contracts let them earn a
return until the cash is needed for schools, roads or other
public works. The U.S. Treasury Department encourages
competitive bidding to ensure that localities get market rates.  The charges say that between 2001 and 2006, rival bankers
decided among themselves who would win the bidding for
particular investment contracts, rather than letting them be
determined at a competitive auction.  Working With Rival  In one deal for an unidentified state financing agency in
June 2002, Welty agreed to buy the securities underlying the
investment agreement from a rival in exchange for the
competitor’s not bidding on the auction, which UBS ultimately
won, according to the indictment.  The bankers also participated in a bid-rigging scheme
orchestrated by CDR Financial Products Inc., the Los Angeles
firm that was the first to face charges under the investigation,
in October 2009, prosecutors said. Three former employees of
that firm have since pleaded guilty, while three others are
fighting the charges and deny wrongdoing.  Prosecutors said Ghavami, Heinz and Welty paid kickbacks to
CDR in exchange for inside information about competing bids and
used that information to win deals.  On June 5, 2002, after winning an investment agreement for
a school district, Ghavami arranged a $65,000 kickback to CDR
that was disguised as a fee for brokering an interest-rate swap,
according to the indictment. Swaps are derivatives designed by
banks to protect against changing interest rates.  Prosecutors said the CDR case included more than 200 deals
involving about 160 state agencies, local governments and
nonprofits from California to Pennsylvania.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Martin Z. Braun  in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net ;
 William Selway  in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 