-- Trillion-Dollar Measure to Freeze Government Spending Passed by U.S. House
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2010-12-09T05:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/trillion-dollar-measure-that-freezes-spending-clears-u-s-house.html
A $1.1 trillion  measure  to freeze
spending on most government programs at current levels was
approved by the U.S. House as lawmakers pushed to complete work
on a stack of overdue appropriations bills.  The bill,  approved  212-206 yesterday, would cut billions
from President  Barack Obama ’s defense budget request, freeze the
pay of non-military government employees and give the Interior
Department more time to consider potential environmental effects
of proposed oil and gas drilling permits. It also includes an
additional $159 billion in “emergency” funding for the wars in
Iraq and Afghanistan.  The measure would cut $46 billion, or about 4 percent, from
the White House’s budget request for the fiscal year that began
Oct. 1. Lawmakers attached an unrelated food-safety measure that
cleared the Senate last month before being tripped up by
constitutional concerns that, because it includes revenue
provisions, it must originate in the House.  In the vote on the bill, 35 opposed it while no Republicans
supported it.  House Appropriations Committee Chairman  David Obey , a
Wisconsin Democrat, said the measure would make “adjustments
that just might ease the financial desperation facing so many
families today.”  Stopgap Funding  The government is currently funded by a stopgap measure
that expires Dec. 18 after Democrats failed to pass a budget or
any of the 12 annual appropriations bills setting spending
levels for individual agencies and programs.  House Republicans have called for a short-term funding bill
that would make it easier for them to begin cutting spending
when they take control of the House in January. Republicans
promised to roll back domestic “discretionary” spending to
2008 levels, which would mean a $100 billion cut.  “This would be the clearest signal the House could send to
the American people that we got the message in November and are
deadly serious about cutting spending,” said Representative
 Jerry Lewis  of California, the top Republican on the
Appropriations panel.  Senate Democrats, meanwhile, are seeking Republican votes
to substitute an “omnibus” measure that would spend about $20
billion more than the House bill and would include thousands of
lawmakers’ pet projects known as earmarks. The House legislation
omits earmarks.  Drilling Permits  The House bill would give the Interior Department up to 90
days, from the current 30 days, to examine potential safety and
environment effects of proposed oil and gas drilling permits.
That drew complaints from Senators  Mary Landrieu , a Louisiana
Democrat, and Alaska Republican  Lisa Murkowski , who said it
would hurt companies still suffering from a drilling moratorium
imposed after this year’s BP Plc oil spill in the Gulf of
Mexico.  “Adding more time to the clock will only serve to further
delay a process that needs to be accelerated,” Landrieu and
Murkowski said in a letter.  While the House bill freezes total spending at last fiscal
year’s levels, some programs would see increases within that
cap. The Pentagon’s budget would grow by $4.9 billion, to $513
billion, with most of the increase going to a 1.4 percent pay
raise for military personnel and higher agency health-care
costs. Still, the funding fell short of the $23 billion increase
the Defense Department had requested.  The bill would provide a $5.7 billion increase for the Pell
college tuition grant program, which go to students from low-
income families, as well as $550 million for the Education
Department’s “Race to the Top” program designed to boost
student achievement. The plan also provides $2 billion for the
State Department and foreign aid programs. The Secret Service
would get an additional $14 million to prepare for the 2012
presidential campaign.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Faler  in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  