-- Roach Says China Should `Aggressively' Quell Inflation to Help Consumers
-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 2010-12-09T08:52:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/roach-says-china-should-aggressively-quell-inflation-to-help-consumers.html
China should move “aggressively” to
crack down on inflation to help the nation become a more
consumption-driven economy, said  Stephen Roach , non-executive
chairman at Morgan Stanley Asia Ltd.  “The longer government policy makers wait to address
inflation, the tougher it will be to deal with” structural
changes, Roach told reporters in Hong Kong today. “My advice is
move quickly and aggressively to deal with inflation, so that
you can get on with the most important transition in China,
which is stimulating internal private consumption.”  China said last week it will shift to a “prudent”
monetary policy next year as the government seeks to rein in
liquidity and combat accelerating price gains. Economists are
expecting an interest-rate increase from the Chinese central
bank this month to cool the highest inflation in two years.  Roach said he didn’t know when authorities will increase
borrowing costs, and that the move should only be a part of the
government’s efforts “to solve unacceptably high inflation in
China.” Interest rates were increased in October.  China’s decision to bring forward the release of economic
data, including the consumer-price index for November, to Dec.
11 may signal an imminent interest-rate increase, Societe
Generale SA Chief Asia Economist  Glenn Maguire  said today in
Hong Kong. Inflation accelerated to 4.4 percent in October.  China may hold its annual economic work conference on Dec.
10-12, which will set guidelines on monetary and fiscal policies
for 2011, the Xinhua News Agency reported Dec. 3.  The biggest challenge to Chinese policy makers “will be to
strike a right balance in China between dealing with the near-
term threat of inflation” and shifting to a more consumer-led
economy, Roach said.  China could raise its ratio of consumption to gross
domestic product to as much as 45 percent in the next five years,
compared to the current 36 percent, if the nation boosts its
social safety net and labor-intensive service sector, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sophie Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  