-- Ron Paul, Author of ‘End the Fed,’ to Lead Fed Panel
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2010-12-09T21:31:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/ron-paul-author-of-end-the-fed-to-lead-fed-oversight-panel.html
Representative  Ron Paul , Texas
Republican and author of “End the Fed,” will take control of
the House subcommittee that oversees the Federal Reserve.  House Financial Services chairman-elect  Spencer Bachus , an
Alabama Republican, selected Paul, 75, to lead the panel’s
domestic monetary policy subcommittee when their party takes the
House majority next month, the committee chairman said today.  “This is the leadership team that crafted the first
comprehensive financial reform bill to put an end to the
bailouts, wind down the taxpayer funding of  Fannie Mae  and
Freddie Mac, and enforce a strong audit of the Federal
Reserve,” Bachus said in a statement.  Paul, in an interview last week, said he plans a slate of
hearings on U.S. monetary policy and will restart his push for a
full audit of the Fed’s functions.  “We are ready to hit the ground running, and I look
forward to continuing our work in the next Congress,” Bachus
said.  Paul, who has introduced legislation to abolish the Fed,
became nationally known during his 2008 presidential campaign.
His campaign to audit the Fed picked up steam as the  central
bank  deployed trillions of dollars in emergency loans in the
midst of the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression.
Paul’s bill gained the support of 320 of 435 members of the
House and a portion of the measure ended up in the Dodd-Frank
financial regulatory overhaul enacted this year.  Attacks on Bernanke  Paul’s assignment comes as the Republican Party has stepped
up attacks on Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and the central bank
in the wake of the Nov. 3 announcement that it would buy bonds
in an attempt to bring down unemployment and prevent inflation.  “Congress must act to rein in Chairman Bernanke and the
Fed before they destroy our currency and permanently damage our
economy and financial system,” Senator  Jim Bunning , a Kentucky
Republican, said in his farewell speech on the Senate floor
today. “Public awareness of what the Fed is doing is increasing
while public opinion of the Fed is falling.”  Bunning’s views are reflected throughout the country,
according to a Bloomberg National Poll that reveals deep
skepticism about the Fed.  Americans across the political spectrum say the central
bank shouldn’t retain its current structure of independence,
according to the poll. Asked if the central bank should be more
accountable to Congress, left independent or abolished entirely,
39 percent said it should be held more accountable and 16
percent that it should be abolished. Thirty-seven percent favor
the status quo.  Other Subcommittees  Paul, who has been passed up twice before for the
subcommittee chairmanship, may cause a problem for Republicans
who have traditionally defended the central bank, Representative
 Barney Frank , the outgoing chairman of the Financial Services
Committee, said today in a Bloomberg Television interview.  “I think you’re going to see a significant dispute within
the Republican Party,” said Frank, who was re-appointed by his
party as the senior Democrat on the committee. “I do not
believe that Ron Paul’s views on the Fed represent the views of
most Republicans.”  Bachus will keep the senior Republicans on the panel in
leadership positions. Representative  Jeb Hensarling  of Texas
will take over as the panel’s vice chairman, replacing fellow
Texas Republican  Randy Neugebauer , who moves over to lead the
oversight and investigations subcommittee.  Representative  Scott Garrett  of New Jersey will become
chairman of the capital markets panel, which would oversee any
work done on government-owned mortgage companies Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac. Representatives  Shelley Moore Capito  of West
Virginia and  Judy Biggert  of Illinois will take over the
financial institutions and housing subcommittees, respectively.
Representative  Gary Miller  of California will take over as
chairman of the international monetary policy panel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Phil Mattingly  in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  