-- Rubber Trades Near 30-Year High on Tight Thailand Supply, Commodity Rally
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 2010-12-09T07:26:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/rubber-trades-near-30-year-high-on-tight-thailand-supply-commodity-rally.html
Rubber climbed to the highest level
in almost a month as Thai cash prices hit a record on tight
supply and as a rally in metals raised speculation the economic
recovery will boost demand for industrial commodities.  May-delivery rubber on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange gained
as much as 1.4 percent to 382.5 yen per kilogram ($4,558 a
metric ton) before settling at 380.3 yen. The price climbed to
the highest level since Nov. 11, when the most-active contract
reached a 30-year high of 383 yen.  Copper climbed to a record in London on speculation the
Federal Reserve may extend asset purchases to support the
economy, driving the dollar lower and boosting the appeal of
commodities as alternative assets. The cash rubber price in
Thailand, the biggest producer and exporter, stayed at a record
today, according to the  Rubber Research Institute of Thailand .  “Rubber drew support from the strength of industrial
commodities,”  Kazuhiko Saito , an analyst at Tokyo-based broker
Fujitomi Co., said today by phone. “Rising Thai prices also
raised speculation that supply may tighten further next year as
the low-production season may start in late January.”  The  cash rubber price  stood at 137.05 baht ($4.56) per
kilogram, matching the record reached yesterday, the  Rubber
Research Institute of Thailand  said on its website. Supply is
tight as output in Thailand and other Asian producers has been
reduced by heavy rain and flooding, Saito said.  Prices will remain “strong” next year as global
consumption increases faster than supply, according to Pongsak
Kerdvongbundit, managing director of Von Bundit Co., Thailand’s
largest exporter.  India Car Sales  India sold 161,497 cars in November, rising 20.8 percent
from a year earlier, according to data released yesterday by the
Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers.  May-delivery rubber in Shanghai gained as much as 4 percent
to 33,480 yuan ($5,029) a ton before closing at 33,100 yuan. The
price has increased 35 percent this year and reached a record
38,920 yuan on Nov. 11.  China has taken steps to curb speculation in commodity
prices after data showed the nation’s inflation accelerated to a
two-year high. China’s three commodities exchanges in Shanghai,
Dalian and Zhengzhou are considering increasing contract sizes
to curb speculation, the Oriental Morning Post reported today,
citing unidentified managers at futures brokerages.  Speculation grew that the Chinese central bank will
increase rates this weekend as China’s statistics bureau brought
forward the release of November economic data on inflation,
retail sales, industrial output and fixed-asset investments by
two days to Dec. 11, Saito at Fujitomi said.  China’s central bank last month ordered banks to set aside
larger reserves for the second time in two weeks after raising
interest rates in October for the first time since 2007.  The ruling Communist Party announced on Dec. 3 that China
will shift to a “prudent” monetary policy next year from a
“moderately loose” stance as the government seeks to combat
accelerating inflation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aya Takada  in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  