-- Trump SoHo Debt to IStar `Substantially Paid Down' in Recapitalization
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l   a n d   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2010-12-09T19:37:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/trump-soho-debt-to-istar-substantially-paid-down-in-recapitalization.html
Developers of the Trump SoHo hotel-
condominium building in lower Manhattan “substantially paid
down” the debt owed on the project to  iStar Financial Inc. 
after receiving a new loan from CIM Group.  “It’s a major paydown of the existing mortgage,” Donald
Trump said in an interview today at his Manhattan office. “The
new group comes in as an equity partner.”  As part of the deal, the Trump Organization, which has
managed the hotel since April, will take a “more proactive
role” in selling condo units and marketing the building, Ivanka
Trump, executive vice president of development and acquisitions
at the Trump Organization, said during the same interview.  Trump Soho  is a joint venture between the Trump
Organization and the project’s developers, Bayrock Group LLC and
the Sapir Organization. The 46-story Trump SoHo offers condos
for sale that may only be used by their owners for 120 days in a
calendar year. For the rest of the time, they’re offered for
rent as a hotel room. Owners share in the rental revenue.  The rate for a King Deluxe suite on Dec. 10 is $559,
according to the hotel website. Occupancy is more than 90
percent, Donald Trump said.  “They would never have done this except for the fact that
the hotel was doing phenomenally,” Trump said of CIM’s
recapitalization. While hotel revenue is “hot as a pistol”
Manhattan’s condominium sales market “is terrible,” he said.  Condos Sold  The 391-unit Trump SoHo development has recorded  32 sales ,
according to property-data website StreetEasy.com. Completed
transactions ranged from $869,000 to $2.2 million. Asking prices
for some units listed for sale in 2007 were more than $3,000 per
square foot, according to StreetEasy.  “The price per square foot we’ve been able to command is
so high that it becomes a question of, frankly, the price we can
achieve versus the velocity we want to have in this climate,”
Ivanka Trump said. “This restructuring is giving us the ability
to continue to achieve that high price per square foot and not
have to sell, sell, sell in order to pay down a loan, because
the new equity is doing that.”  Donald and Ivanka Trump both declined to discuss financial
terms of the deal or when the new financing matures.  In September, iStar offered $20 million more in financing
to the Trump SoHo in a mortgage restructuring. It had already
lent more than $250 million to the project, the Wall Street
Journal reported that month.  IStar, the New York-based commercial real-estate lender
seeking to avert a bankruptcy filing next year, had about $2.8
billion of non-performing loans as of Sept. 30. It may seek to
refinance loans with a new $1 billion to $2 billion credit line
as an alternative to seeking bankruptcy protection, three people
with direct knowledge of the matter said on Nov. 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net .  John Gittelsohn in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net  