-- SacOil Talks With ‘Super-Majors’ About Congo Oil Block
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2010-12-09T16:14:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/sacoil-in-talks-with-super-majors-to-develop-congo-oil-block-ceo-says.html
SacOil Holdings Ltd. , owner of a
concession in the Democratic Republic of Congo, is in talks with
“super-major” oil companies to help develop deposits in the
Central African nation, Chief Executive Officer  Robin Vela  said.  “We’re looking for partners that have the technical
expertise and that have the operational capacity,” Vela said in
an interview at the company’s headquarters in Johannesburg
yesterday. “We’ve had a number of proposals on the table and
the proposals are from significant players. The partners we’re
looking at have experience in the area.”  SacOil  shares  surged more than 10-fold since Congolese
President  Joseph Kabila  on June 22 signed a decree confirming
the company’s rights to explore Block 3 in the Albertine Graben,
which straddles the country’s border with Uganda.  Tullow Oil
Plc , the London-based oil explorer with the most licenses in
Africa, plans to partner with  China National Offshore Oil Corp. 
and  Total SA  to start pumping oil on the Ugandan side of the
field, which it estimates contains 1 billion barrels of crude.  The company’s stock fell the most since Nov. 22, losing 3
cents, or 1.6 percent, to 1.86 rand as of the 5 p.m. close in
Johannesburg today.  SacOil will begin aeromagnetic surveys of the Congolese
area next week, as it starts developing the property for
production by 2015 at a cost of about $200 million, Vela said.  “It’s not as though we’re desperate for a partner,” he
said. “We’re proceeding as if we’re doing it without a
partner.”  Sacoil was founded by Encha Group Ltd., an investment
vehicle created by South African businessman  Tiego Moseneke , the
brother of South African Deputy Chief Justice  Dikgang Moseneke .  Foxwhelp, Caprikat  SacOil and South African partner Divine Inspiration Group
Ltd. in 2008 obtained rights to Block 1, before Congo in June
awarded the concession and Tullow’s Block 2 to Caprikat Ltd. and
Foxwhelp Ltd., both registered in the British Virgin Islands and
partially owned by  Khulubuse Zuma , the nephew of South African
President  Jacob Zuma . Both blocks had been awarded to Tullow in
2006, though the company never received a presidential decree.  Tullow is suing Congo in the International Court of
Arbitration in Paris, because it believes its rights to the two
concessions should be upheld. Tullow Vice President  Tim O’Hanlon 
declined to comment when reached on his mobile phone in Kampala,
the Ugandan capital, today.  Caprikat and Foxwhelp last week said they restarted
exploration work on Blocks 1 and 2 after a BVI court rescinded
an injunction won by Tullow to stop development of the blocks.
Exploration companies have yet to start drilling on the
Congolese side of the Albertine Graben as they have struggled to
secure their concessions from the government, Vela said.  Joint Venture  SacOil is interested in a joint-venture with Caprikat and
Foxwhelp, in which it would help raise financing for the
development of the blocks. Reintroducing Tullow as a partner
would be a condition for any partnership as it would prevent
further litigation or reputational damage, Vela said.  “We want to make sure that all potential disputes are
dealt with so we don’t have any future tenure issues,” Vela
said.  To reach the international market, any oil extracted from
the basin will need to cross Uganda and Kenya and reach the
Indian Ocean port of Mombasa, from where it can be shipped.
Congo, Uganda and Kenya in October agreed to collaborate on the
construction of a 1,300-kilometer (808-mile) pipeline that will
cost as much as $2.6 billion and won’t be operational for at
least another four years, Giuseppe Ciccarelli, a representative
for Foxwhelp and Caprikat in Congo, said on Dec. 2.  Sacoil shares fell 2 cents, or 1.1 percent, to 187 cents in
Johannesburg today, giving the company a market value of 1.08
billion rand ($155.9 million).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in Jerusalem at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 