-- San Francisco Utility Delays Build Americas After Yields Leap: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l   a n d   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 2010-12-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/san-francisco-utility-delays-build-americas-after-yields-leap-muni-credit.html
San Francisco’s  Public Utilities
Commission , which supplies water to 2.5 million people in the
Bay Area, postponed $524 million in competitive offerings,
including $350 million in Build America Bonds, as yields soared.  The average yield on taxable Build Americas climbed to 6.35
percent Dec. 7, the highest since Jan. 7, according to a Wells
Fargo index. Signs that the global economic recovery is
gathering pace also pushed up tax-exempt yields, which move
inversely to prices, along with  U.S. Treasuries  and other fixed-
income markets.  The future of the Build America program, which expires Dec.
31, remains unclear after President  Barack Obama  and
congressional Republicans left the federally subsidized bonds
out of a tax deal they reached this week.  “It’s just a lot of news and a lot of information to
digest,” said Todd Rydstrom, chief financial officer of the San
Francisco utility. “It’s best for our ratepayers to delay it
one week.” Delaying from yesterday may result in lower
borrowing costs, he said.  The  premium investors demand  above Treasuries to buy the
debt rose to 199 basis points on Dec. 7, the highest since Aug.
31, Bloomberg data shows. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  Yields on top-rated tax-exempts  due in 20 years  jumped
about 12 basis points yesterday to 4.19 percent, the highest
since Aug. 28, 2009, according to a Bloomberg Valuation index.
Every maturity except the shortest had a rise in rates
yesterday, with 18-year debt making the biggest jump, BVAL
benchmark indexes show.  Tax-Exempt Portion  The utilities commission had also planned a sale of about
$174 million in tax-exempts yesterday, with the bulk coming due
in November 2030, Bloomberg data show. The amount of tax-exempts
and Build Americas offered may change as needed to minimize
cost, Rydstrom said.  “We’ll consider the mix right up into the final hour on
the BAB and tax-exempts,” he said. “It’s a plain-vanilla,
essential-service revenue bond, and the market will always like
that. We’re looking for a successful sale next week.”  The agency is one of four issuers postponing deals this
week, along with three that rejected bids, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. States and municipalities were set to
sell  $13.1 billion  in fixed-rate debt this week, including more
than $5 billion in taxable Build Americas, both three-week
highs, Bloomberg data show.  Supply Pressure  The increased supply in the market has exacerbated the
selloff this week, said  Matt Fabian , managing director of
Municipal Market Advisors, an independent research firm based in
Concord, Massachusetts.  “The fact that there are so many bonds in the market -- a
strong secondary, strong primary -- those make it harder for the
market to stabilize,” he said. “In general, munis might hold
on a bit better except for the concern about BABs.”  Prices on Treasuries dropped, pushing  yields  of benchmark
10-year notes to the highest in about six months, as optimism
the global economic recovery is gathering pace sapped demand for
the relative safety of U.S. government debt.  The 10-year Treasury note yield advanced 15 basis points to
3.27 percent at 5:21 p.m. in New York, according to BGCantor
Market Data. The yield touched 3.33 percent, the  highest level 
since June 4.  ‘Treasuries Moving’  The muni selloff is “95 percent Treasuries moving,” said
 Alan Schankel , managing director of Philadelphia-based Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC, which oversees $12 billion in fixed-income
securities. Still, “munis are holding up pretty well compared
with Treasuries,” he said.  For the month, tax-exempt investors have lost 1.49 percent,
compared with a decline of 1.88 percent for owners of
Treasuries, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  The  iShares S&P National AMT-Free Bond Fund , an exchange-
traded fund that seeks investment results that correspond to the
performance of the S&P Municipal Bond Index, lost as much as 1.4
percent today, touching $98.63, the lowest since March 18, 2009.
The fund was down 0.75 percent to $99.25 at 5:21 p.m. in New
York., the lowest since June 19, 2009.  Following is a description of a pending sale of U.S.
municipal debt:  NEW YORK LIBERTY DEVELOPMENT CORP., a state arm created to
finance loans for lower Manhattan construction, will sell about
$1.3 billion in tax-exempts today to refinance existing debt
from the World Trade Center project, according to Standard &
Poor’s, which assigned a rating of AA-, fourth-highest. The
bonds are backed by support payments from the Port Authority of
New York & New Jersey, which owns the site, and rent from New
York City, S&P said in a Dec. 1 report. Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
will lead banks marketing the bonds. (Updated Dec. 9)  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael McDonald  in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  