-- House Democrats Oppose Floor Vote on Obama's Tax-Cut Plan, Seek Revisions
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   R y a n   D o n m o y e r
-- 2010-12-09T19:13:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/senate-democrats-to-move-tax-cut-extension-plan-overriding-party-concern.html
House Democrats voted to block a
floor debate on President  Barack Obama ’s tax deal with
Republicans, in a non-binding move to force changes in the
proposal to extend Bush-era tax cuts for all income levels.  House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  of California told reporters
that members will make suggestions and “bring something to the
floor.” She said the Democrats’ action was “nothing
different” from Democratic senators’ effort to seek changes in
the bill.  “The need is great, but we do not have to capitulate to
just any deal that is offered,” said Representative  Lloyd Doggett  of Texas after Democrats adopted the resolution during a
private caucus. “We have to stand up and say unless we get some
changes in the agreement it ought not to come up for a floor
vote.”  Senate Democratic leaders have been planning to move
forward with a vote as early as this week on the tax deal,
brushing past a rebellion in their party. Senate Majority Leader
 Harry Reid  today said lawmakers should “stay tuned” on timing
of a vote. He said a procedural vote might be held Dec. 11.  The Obama administration recognizes “there are parts of
the agreement that Democrats don’t like,” White House press
secretary  Robert Gibbs  said today. “There are certainly parts
of this that Republicans don’t like.”  ‘Strengthen’ Framework  There may be ways to “strengthen the framework” that
would draw broader support, Gibbs said, and the administration
wouldn’t try to prevent that.  “If everybody took out what they didn’t like we would have
nothing,” Gibbs said. “At the end of the day this will get
done.”  Reid, of Nevada, said the Senate text of the proposal may
be introduced later today.  Obama yielded to Republican demands to extend Bush-era
income-tax cuts for two years for all taxpayers, including the
highest-earning Americans. Democrats have sought to limit the
tax reductions, which expire Dec. 31, to the first $250,000 of
annual income.  Democratic Representative  Charles Rangel  of New York said
House and Senate leaders should have been part of the
negotiation between the Obama administration and Republicans.
Democratic leaders in Congress “can’t be told what the decision
is,” he said.  Lone Vote  Representative  Shelley Berkley  of Nevada said she was the
lone vote against the House Democrats’ resolution, which she
said “means nothing” besides allowing members to express their
disagreement. “This is a good deal,” she said, adding that
“you are going to have a dickens of a time” getting its
economic-stimulus provisions passed after Republicans take the
House majority in January.  U.S. stocks swung between gains and losses as Democratic
opposition to the tax-cut plan helped offset investor optimism
after a bigger-than-projected drop in jobless claims. The S&P
500 rose 0.2 percent to 1,230.99 at 1:22 p.m. in New York after
gaining 0.5 percent earlier. The Dow lost 17.10 points, or 0.2
percent, to 11,355.38. Treasury 30-year bonds rose for the first
time in three days.  ‘Major Setback’  “This would be a major setback if we don’t take it up and
approve it this year,”  Scott Davis , chairman and chief
executive of United Parcel Service Inc., told reporters at the
White House today after a meeting of the President’s Export
Council.  Because the plan would allow a quick write-off of expenses,
UPS will “invest an awful lot more money” in equipment next
year, Davis said. “This tax proposal would help continue the
recovery; I think it’s vital to the recovery.”  “It would be very disappointing if it didn’t pass,” said
 Ursula M. Burns , chief executive of Xerox Corp. She said the tax
deal “will give us a little bit of certainty about how the near
term will look.”  Reid said “I hope so” yesterday when asked whether the
measure will pass the Senate. While many of the 58 Democrats
expressed reservations about the plan, most Senate Republicans
support it.  “No one is happy,” said Representative  Bart Stupak , a
retiring Democrat from Michigan who plans to vote against the
plan in the House. “But this is not going to pass with
Democratic votes, this will pass with Republican votes.”  Private Talks  The proposal was largely negotiated in private meetings
between Vice President  Joe Biden  and Senate Republican leader
 Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky. Biden told House Democrats
yesterday that no major changes can be made to the proposal,
lawmakers said.  “A lot of people said they were undecided, but the vice
president said ‘this is the deal, take it or leave it,’” said
Representative  Henry Waxman , a California Democrat.  The plan includes a 13-month extension of federal
 unemployment  insurance for the long-term jobless, a one-year cut
in payroll taxes and tax breaks for small businesses that were
part of his economic package. It would set the estate tax at a
top rate of 35 percent after a $5 million tax-free allowance per
person. That would be the second-lowest estate tax in 80 years.  “A deal breaker for me is the estate tax,” Representative
 Gregory Meeks , 57, a Democratic member of the Congressional
Black Caucus from New York, said today on CNBC. He said he would
support the package if the estate tax provisions were removed.  Senators expressing support for the bill include Democrats
 John Kerry  of Massachusetts,  James Webb  of Virginia and  Bill Nelson  of Florida; Republicans Christopher Bond of Missouri and
 Lindsey Graham  of South Carolina, and independent  Joe Lieberman 
of Connecticut.  DeMint, Voinovich  Senator  Jim DeMint  of South Carolina, a Republican and a
Tea Party favorite, said in a radio interview he would vote
against it because it wouldn’t make the tax cuts permanent. Also
opposing the measure is  George Voinovich  of Ohio. Twenty
Democratic votes would be needed to advance the plan if all
other Republicans backed it.  Senator  Barbara Mikulski  of Maryland said two chief
concerns were voiced in a closed-door meeting yesterday among
the chamber’s Democrats and White House officials. She said
senators consider the estate tax too generous to the wealthy and
are concerned that the payroll tax cut could harm the Social
Security system that it funds.  A congressional staff member helping draft the legislation
said the agreement would give people who died in 2010 a choice
of tax treatment for the year: the 35 percent estate tax or a
replacement capital-gains tax.  Alternative Energy  Several lawmakers, including Senator  Tom Harkin  of Iowa,
said they want to include tax credits for production of wind and
solar energy.  Representative  Peter Welch , a Vermont Democrat, and 53
members of the progressive caucus came out against the proposal
today, calling the plan “fiscally irresponsible” and “grossly
unfair” in a letter sent to Pelosi.  “This bill is too much debt, too few jobs,” Welch said in
an interview today with Bloomberg Television.  The opposition to the plan from fiscally liberal Democrats
makes gaining support from the centrist New Democratic caucus
and fiscally conservative Blue Dogs a top priority for the White
House.  Some people who are prepared to support the package are
“perhaps holding their nose,” said Democratic Representative
 Gerald Connolly  of Virginia, a member of the New Democratic
caucus who supports the plan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lisa Lerer  in Washingtont ;
 Ryan J. Donmoyer  in Washington at 
 rdonmoyer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  