-- Sephora, Best Buy Enlist Social-Media Consultants to Attract `Super Users'
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2010-12-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/sephora-best-buy-snag-super-users-with-social-media-tools.html
Two years ago, Sephora SA was
hesitant to let customers comment on its website about the
cosmetics company’s lipstick and perfume, fretting that negative
reviews might hurt sales.  Executives changed their tack after watching discussions
unfold on Facebook Inc. and Twitter Inc., where users often
recommended Sephora products and spurred orders. Sephora sought
ways to bring that exchange to its own site.  The company turned to Emeryville, California-based  Lithium
Technologies Inc. , which helps clients manage customer social
networks. Lithium set up a  forum  where so-called super users, or
unpaid fans, spend hours every day answering questions from
other customers, opining on topics and making recommendations.  “We had such a robust natural conversation on Facebook,”
said Bridget Dolan, vice president of interactive media for
Sephora, a  division  of Paris-based LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis
Vuitton SA. “We saw that women were asking each other questions
-- they’d say, ‘What’s a great waterproof mascara?’ And within
an hour, they’d have about 17 really well-thought-out answers.”  Lithium and Palo Alto, California-based Jive Software Inc.
lead the market for customer-relationship management, or CRM, a
fast-growing field that includes more than 100 participants,
according to research firm  Gartner Inc.  Ever since consumers
took to social-networking sites to air their views, companies
have sought ways to influence the conversations as a way to
boost sales and manage their brands’ reputations.  Sales Surge  Companies will spend more than $600 million this year for
social software to support sales, customer service and
marketing, according to Stamford, Connecticut-based Gartner.
Spending will top $1 billion in 2012, the firm says.  Privately held Lithium  doubled  its revenue last year and
 raised  $18 million from investors, Chief Executive Officer  Lyle Fong  says. The company has been valued at $160 million, he says.  Besides creating online forums for customers, Lithium and
Jive monitor social-networking traffic on sites like Facebook
and Twitter. That helps clients get ahead of issues and resolve
complaints more quickly.  “The market opportunity is bigger than any other market
opportunity I’ve seen in my career,” Fong said. “I would love
for us to take this company all the way, try to create a
sustainable public company.”  Lithium says it has more than 500 customers, including
 Cisco Systems Inc. ’s Linksys,  Hewlett-Packard Co.  and  Best Buy
Co.  There’s a race among competitors to become one-stop shops,
so companies don’t have to hire separate firms to design a
Facebook page, maintain a Twitter account, run a blog and host
an online user community, he says.  Gaming Background  Fong was a professional video-game player in the 1990s and
founded  Gamers.com  with his brother in 1996. He realized that
tools used by video-game publishers to keep people playing could
also be useful for companies trying to engage their customers.  “What we do with companies is build in these gaming
mechanics, so you get reputation, you get badges and
achievements, and rewards -- all non-monetary -- to do things
that the company wants you do to,” he said.  Best Buy , based in Richfield, Minnesota, started its online
community in 2008 and says it now gets about 2.5 million
visitors a year, generating 100,000 conversations. On top of
that, 25 super users spend 8 to 12 hours a week on the site
answering about 30 percent of all the questions asked, says Lisa
Smith, vice president of enterprise customer care.  Savings, Loyalty  “Is it material to Best Buy’s overall sales volume? No,”
Smith said. “Is it extremely helpful and a loyalty builder?
Yes.”  Hewlett-Packard  was able to reduce its customer-service
costs by $20 million after Lithium helped establish a community
website for the company, Fong says.  Ethan Bauley , a spokesman
for Palo Alto-based HP, declined to comment.  The money-making potential of online community management
has attracted venture capital companies, including  Kleiner
Perkins Caufield & Byers  and  Sequoia Capital , which also backed
 Google Inc .  The pair invested $30 million in Jive Software in July.
That startup’s customers include Nike Inc., Intel Corp. and
Charles Schwab Corp. Jive’s services start at $100 per user per
year. That includes hosting costs.  Smaller competitor  Get Satisfaction Inc.  in San Francisco
offers a limited free version that lets users set up communities
instantly, as well as a paid version with more features. Fifty
thousand sites have been set up using its software, co-founder
Thor Muller says.  Some Misfires  Not every attempt at building an online community pans out.
Hyatt Hotels Corp. opened an online forum called Yatt’it in
March 2008, letting members of the company’s gold passport
loyalty program establish profiles, exchange travel stories and
advice and interact with Hyatt concierges. By October 2009,
 Hyatt  shut the site,  saying  it was re-evaluating its social-
networking strategy.  “In terms of building communities on your own website --
there’s been mixed results,” said  Gene Alvarez , an analyst at
Gartner. Consumers spend as much as 40 percent of their week on
established social-networking sites, so adding another to their
list can be difficult, he said. “Some organizations have not
been able to lure people away from Facebook.”  Christopher Morace, senior vice president of products at
Jive Software, agrees.  “Any company who thinks that ‘If you build it, they will
come,’ is probably wrong,” he said.  Companies fail when they devise a “brand-centric” site
that doesn’t offer customers a unique experience, he said.  Jive 
built a community for  Nike  that lets members track their runs,
challenge each other to virtual races and schedule meet-ups. The
site has more than 1 million registered users who have logged
over 100 million miles of runs.  “If you can figure out what it is your customers and
prospects are really looking for, then they’ll absolutely
come,” Morace said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ryan Flinn  in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  