-- Sept. 11 Health Bill for Ground Zero Workers Blocked by Senate Republicans
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n   a n d   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2010-12-09T21:25:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/sept-11-health-bill-for-ground-zero-workers-blocked-by-senate-republicans.html
Senate Republicans blocked a  bill 
providing as much as $7.4 billion in health costs for thousands
of volunteers and workers ill from toxic dust after the Sept.
11, 2001, terrorist attack on the World Trade Center.  The 57-to-42 vote along party lines cut off debate three
votes short of the 60 needed to bring the bill to the floor
under the Senate’s procedural rules. Republicans objected that
the program would have been financed by eliminating a tax break
given to foreign corporations with U.S. subsidiaries.  The bill, named after  James Zadroga , a New York City police
officer who died of respiratory disease after working on
recovery operations in the trade center rubble, passed the  House 
of Representatives in September.  The Senate vote is “a tragic example of partisan politics
trumping patriotism,” said Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  in an e-
mailed statement. He urged the Republicans to reconsider.  “We have a collective responsibility to care for the
heroes -- from all 50 states -- who answered the call of duty,
saved lives and helped our nation recover,” Bloomberg said.  Don Stewart , a spokesman for Senate Republican Minority
Leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky, said today’s procedural vote
hasn’t killed the bill.  “Republicans asked that the Senate first pass the funding
bill and the bill to prevent tax hikes,” he said in an e-mail.
Democrats “can call a vote on it again after the tax and
government-funding bills are complete.”  ‘Stop at Nothing’  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat,
criticized Republicans for derailing the bill after reaching an
agreement this week with President  Barack Obama  to keep the
Bush-era tax cuts in place for top earners.  “Republicans denied adequate health care to the heroes who
developed illnesses from rushing into burning buildings on
9/11,” Reid said in a statement. “Yet they will stop at
nothing to give tax breaks to millionaires and CEOs.”  More than 30,000 workers and survivors of the 2001 attacks
responded to the attack site while it burned for several weeks.
Last month, 10,043 settled lawsuits claiming illness and injury
from the alleged failure of the city and 140 contractors to
adequately protect them. They will participate in a fund of
about $625 million created by the U.S. government.  Thousands more already have chronic illnesses or are at
risk of developing them over the next 10 years, Bloomberg has
said, citing health officials. The money provided by the bill
would have been deposited into a fund through 2020.  Bloomberg is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
LP, the parent of Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Henry Goldman  in New York City Hall at 
 William Selway  in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  