-- Serbia Lifts Europe's Highest Interest Rate to 11.5% to Combat Inflation
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2010-12-09T12:56:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/serbian-central-bank-raises-main-rate-to-11-5-on-accelerating-inflation.html
Serbia’s central bank raised Europe’s
highest  benchmark interest rate  for the fifth time in five
months, giving the dinar a 0.3 percent boost, as it battles
accelerating inflation.  The Belgrade-based National Bank of Serbia increased the
two-week repurchase rate today by a full percentage point to
11.5 percent, matching the forecasts of 6 of 21 economists
polled by Bloomberg. Eleven expected the bank to take the rate
to 11 percent, while four saw no change.  Rate-setters “took into account the necessity to curb
rising inflationary pressures, triggered by rising agriculture
producer and regulated prices and the impact of the dinar’s
depreciation,” according to a statement posted on the bank’s
 website .  Months of dinar weakness, low private credit inflows and a
lack of foreign investment, along with rising food prices,
pushed inflation past the central bank’s 2010 target of 6
percent, plus or minus two percentage points. Policy makers, who
pledged to keep 2011 inflation within 1.5 percentage point on
either side of its 4.5 percent target, see the rate rising to
9.6 percent this month.  The dinar gained 0.3 percent after the rate announcement,
to trade at 107.05-107.25 to the euro at 12:35 Belgrade time
according to Bloomberg data, up from 107.20-107.40 to the euro
before the decision.  ‘Difficult Task’  The  Narodna Banka Srbije  raised the rate “to avoid the
need for tightening between meetings,” Hypo Alpe Adria Bank
said today in a note to clients. The next meeting is on Jan. 13.
“The NBS is faced with a difficult task to regain credibility
to attract carry-traders who left the market in early summer in
light of elevated risk perception.”  The bank held off from changing reserve-requirement rules
as any increase would have clamped down on still weak bank
credit growth amid signs that economic activity isn’t as robust
as the government had hoped for.  The dinar has lost almost 11 percent since January and
about 40 percent since the start of the global financial crisis
in 2008. This year the central bank has sold more than 2.5
billion euros ($3.3 billion), including 50 million euros so far
this month, to curb the dinar losses amid a shortage of fresh
private capital inflows.  The currency may weaken as much as 6.95 percent next year
depending on the development of factors such as foreign trade,
the current-account deficit and new investments, Erste Group
Bank AG said.  “The pressure is additionally heightened by risk
perception and market expectations,”  Alen Kovac , an analyst at
Erste said in a note on Dec. 6, adding that central bank will
remain “susceptible to exchange-rate movements” in order to
control depreciation pressures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gordana Filipovic  in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  