-- Serbia Says 4 Bought Documents in Telekom Srbija Sale
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2010-12-09T16:11:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/serbia-says-4-bidders-bought-documents-in-telekom-srbija-sale.html
The  Serbian government ’s sale of a
majority stake in  Telekom Srbija AD , the state telephone
company, attracted four potential bidders who bought the
documents before the tender closes, the Finance Ministry said.  Three other investors may also buy the documents before
tomorrow’s deadline, the ministry said e-mailed statement in
Belgrade today.  Deutsche Telekom AG ,  Telekom Austria AG ,  France
Telecom SA  and  America Movil SAB  have bought and paid the tender
documents, while  Orascom Telecom Holding SAE , taking part
through its parent Weather Investments SpA, is in the process of
completing the payment, it said.  The government gave the bidders until Feb. 21 to submit
binding bids and “if there are more bids, a televised auction
will be organized at the end of February and the winner will be
the highest bidding company,” the statement quoted Deputy
Finance Minister Vuk Djokovic as saying.  “If only one binding bid arrives, the Telekom Srbija stake
will be sold at the offered price,” he said.  Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS  and Russia’s  VimpelCom Ltd. 
have “both expressed interest” and are now waiting for the
tender commission to decide whether they qualify for the
purchase of a 51 percent stake in the Serbian company valued at
2.43 billion euros ($3.21 billion).  ‘Great Interest’  To qualify, potential bidders need to have five years in
the telecommunications business, 20 million landline and mobile-
phone users and 3 billion euros in market capitalization,  The government extended the deadline on Nov. 25, citing
“great interest” in Telekom Srbija, 80 percent owned by the
state. Greece’s  Hellenic Telecommunications Organizations AS 
owns a 20 percent stake and hasn’t announced whether it would
sell its stake together with the Serbian government.  Serbia managed to double the asking price for mobile
operator Mobi 63 in 2006 by organizing a televised auction, with
Telenor ASA winning with an offer of 1.5 billion euros.  Along with Telekom Srbija capital, the government is
selling a proportionate stake in its infrastructure. The Serbian
company also owns M-Tel in Montenegro and Banja Luka-based
 Telekom Srpske  in the Bosnian Serb Republic.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gordana Filipovic  in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  