-- NMDC, Severstal to Build $5 Billion India Steel Plant
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2010-12-09T09:16:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/severstal-nmdc-to-build-5-billion-india-steel-plant-update1-.html
State-owned NMDC Ltd. said it will
partner  OAO Severstal , Russia’s largest steelmaker, to build a
$5 billion plant in India to meet rising demand in Asia’s
second-fastest major growing economy.  Severstal and NMDC, Asia’s third-largest iron ore producer,
will sign an agreement tomorrow to build the 5 million metric
ton plant in the southern state of Karnataka,  Swaminathan Thiagarajan , finance director of the Hyderabad-based company,
said today in a phone interview.  Natalia Ivanova , a spokeswoman
for Severstal in Moscow, wasn’t available for immediate comment.  Rising incomes and higher demand for cars and homes may
raise India’s demand for the alloy by 10 percent this year,
according to the nation’s steel ministry. New projects worth
more than $80 billion have been stalled because of delays in
approvals and land acquisition.  “The Russian company has coking coal assets which is also
of interest to us,” Thiagarajan said. “We expect to source
coal for our plant in Karnataka as well as the upcoming mill in
Chhattisgarh.”  Severstal Expansion  Severstal seeks to expand to India and South-East Asia as
European and U.S. steel markets look “less attractive,” the
company’s chief executive and owner  Alexei Mordashov  told
Russian state television channel Rossiya 24 on Dec. 3.  NMDC  rose as much as 6.8 percent to 269 rupees and was
trading at 256.15 rupees at 12:52 p.m. Mumbai time. The  stock 
has slumped 40 percent this year, compared with the 12 percent
advance in the benchmark  Sensitive Index   The company is seeking 2,500 acres of land from the state
government for the 2 million ton, first stage of the plant and
will buy more land for the second stage, Thiagarajan said. The
venture may either be 51 percent-owned by NMDC or could be
equally-owned, he said.  “Actual possession of the land for the project will be an
issue to watch out for as we are aware many steel projects in
the country have been delayed in the past due to problems in
acquiring land,” said  Paresh Jain , an analyst who has a
‘reduce’ rating on the stock at Angel Broking Ltd. in Mumbai.  “If they are able to get assured supply of coking coal
from Severstal it will be a big plus,” he said.  Steel mills planned by ArcelorMittal, the world’s largest
producer, and South Korea’s Posco, have been delayed for more
than five years as farmers and local people, dependent on the
land for their livelihood, refuse to give it up.  Posco  had
planned a $12 billion mill in the eastern state of Orissa, while
ArcelorMittal proposed building two projects worth $10 billion
each in the states of Jharkhand and Orissa.  The NMDC was reported earlier today by the Indian Express
newspaper, which cited Chairman  Rana Som  as saying the company
may sign a joint venture with Severstal to set up a 5 million
ton steel plant in the southern Indian state of Karnataka.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai  on 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Andrew Hobbs in Sydney at 
 ahobbs@bloomberg.net  