-- Facebook’s Zuckerberg Joins Gates, Buffett in Pledge
-- B y   T e r j e   L a n g e l a n d
-- 2010-12-09T19:53:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/seventeen-of-wealthiest-u-s-families-take-buffett-gates-giving-pledge-.html
Facebook Inc. founder  Mark Zuckerberg 
and 16 other wealthy U.S. individuals and families agreed to
give most of their fortunes to charity, joining a pledge started
by billionaires  Warren Buffett  and  Bill Gates .  Investor  Carl Icahn  and AOL Inc. co-founder  Steve Case  will
also participate in the Giving Pledge project, the group said
today in a statement distributed by Business Wire.  The number of participants has risen to 57 in the U.S.
since the project was announced in June. Buffett, the chairman
of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., and Gates, the chairman of Microsoft
Corp., are also expanding the philanthropic effort by meeting
with billionaires from other countries, the statement said.  “In just a few short months we’ve made good progress,”
Buffett said in the statement. “The Giving Pledge has re-
energized people thinking about philanthropy.”  The project aims to persuade billionaires to commit more
than half of their wealth to philanthropy, according to the
statement.  “People wait until late in their career to give back,”
said Zuckerberg, who is worth $6.9 billion according to Forbes
magazine. “But why wait when there is so much to be done?”  New Donors  Individuals and families who joined this month also include
Michael and Lori Milken and  Dustin Moskovitz  of California; Joe
and Rika Mansueto of Illinois;  Nicolas Berggruen , Ted Forstmann,
 Sidney Kimmel , Tom and Cindy Secunda, and  Charles Zegar  and
Merryl Snow Zegar of New York; Lee and Toby Cooperman and Duncan
and Nancy MacMillan of New Jersey; David and Barbara Green of
Oklahoma;  Denny Sanford  of South Dakota; and Lyda Hill and
 George P. Mitchell  of Texas, according to the statement.  “High net-worth donors rely on their peers when they make
decisions about their philanthropy,”  Una Osili , director of
research at the Center on Philanthropy at Indiana University,
said in a phone interview.  Among previously announced participants are Microsoft co-
founder  Paul Allen , Bloomberg LP founder  Michael Bloomberg ,
filmmaker  George Lucas  and Turner Enterprises Inc. Chairman  Ted Turner .  Tom Secunda , Charles Zegar and Duncan MacMillan are
founding partners of Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Terje Langeland  in Tokyo at 
 tlangeland1@bloomberg.net  or Patrick Cole in New York at 
   pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bret Okeson at 
 bokeson@bloomberg.net  