-- Singapore's GIC Doubles Stake in CICC to Become Second-Biggest Investor
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2010-12-09T00:27:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/singapore-s-gic-doubles-stake-in-cicc-to-become-second-biggest-investor.html
Government of Singapore Investment
Corp.  said it more than doubled its stake in  China International
Capital Corp. , making it the second-largest shareholder of the
first Sino-foreign investment bank.  GIC, the manager of more than $100 billion of Singapore’s
reserves, increased its stake to more than 16.35 percent from
7.35 percent,  Jennifer Lewis , spokeswoman of the city’s
sovereign wealth fund, said today in response to a query. The
stake was bought from Morgan Stanley.  GIC said in its annual report this year that it will boost
investments in higher-growth emerging economies, especially in
Asia, as expansion in developed nations slows. The fund aims to
increase the proportion of investments in public equities and
private assets in emerging markets to the “high teens” over
time from 12 percent to 13 percent at the end of March.  The sale will end  Morgan Stanley’s  15-year involvement in
CICC, the top-ranked underwriter of share sales in China. The
U.S. firm, which ceded management control of CICC a decade ago,
plans to form a partnership with Shenzhen-based China Fortune
Securities Co.  Regulatory Approvals  Morgan Stanley , the sixth-largest U.S. bank by assets, said
it has received all required regulatory approvals for the sale
of its 34.3 percent holding in CICC, clearing the way for the
sale to four investors.  Morgan Stanley  was selling the stake to
 KKR & Co. , TPG Capital, Great Eastern Holdings Ltd. and GIC.  Morgan Stanley plans to sell stakes of about 10 percent
each to TPG and  KKR , and about a 5 percent stake to Singapore’s
Great Eastern, the insurer controlled by Oversea-Chinese Banking
Corp., four people with direct knowledge of the deal said
earlier this month. GIC will buy the remainder, the people said.
The 34.3 percent stake is valued at about $1 billion, two of the
people said.  Morgan Stanley invested $35 million in CICC when it was
established in 1995. It ceded management control in 2000 and
CICC is now run by  Levin Zhu , the son of former Chinese Premier
 Zhu Rongji . Singapore’s GIC also bought CICC shares in 1995 and
has been one of the founding shareholders, according to CICC’s
website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joyce Koh  in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  