-- Sirius XM Jumps After Host Howard Stern Says He's Staying for 5 More Years
-- B y   B r e t t   P u l l e y   a n d   S a r a h   R a b i l
-- 2010-12-09T21:18:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/sirius-xm-radio-jumps-after-howard-stern-says-he-s-staying-for-five-years.html
Sirius XM Radio Inc. , the U.S.
satellite-radio broadcaster, rose the most in five months in
Nasdaq trading after securing a contract to keep talk-show host
 Howard Stern  for five more years.  Sirius XM  gained  7 cents, or 5.7 percent, to $1.39 at 4
p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading, the biggest
gain since July 7. The shares have more than doubled this year.  Stern, 56, first revealed the news on his early morning
show, known for its uncensored content.  “It all worked out, very, very well,” Stern told
listeners. “I got five f---ing more years of this.”  Stern’s new deal, which will run through December 2015,
allows for Sirius to transmit Stern’s programming on mobile
devices, the company said in a statement. Neither Sirius nor
Stern disclosed financial terms of his new contract.  Don Buchwald , Stern’s agent, didn’t immediately return telephone and
e-mail messages.  Mel Karmazin , the company’s chief executive officer, said
in the statement that Stern’s contract was “good for Sirius XM
subscribers and good for Sirius XM stockholders.”  Stern is responsible for adding about 2 million subscribers
to Sirius XM since he moved to satellite radio from terrestrial
in January 2006, according to  Tuna Amobi , an analyst at Standard
& Poor’s in New York. Last week, Sirius XM said it reaches more
than 20 million subscribers.  Stern Negotiations  Stern’s show airs live weekday mornings, and takes place at
the New York City headquarters of Sirius, inside a large 36th
floor studio the company built especially for Stern. Stern’s
programming is replayed throughout the day.  Sirius XM had been negotiating with Stern for weeks in an
effort to reach a resolution before the expiration of his
current contract this month, which was worth $500 million over
five years.  The new contract “helps to retain the subscribers who are
still using the Sirius radio for Stern access only,”  David Joyce , an analyst at Miller Tabak & Co. in New York, said in an
interview. “There had started to be some fear in the stock in
the past week.”  Karmazin, in an interview in October, said Sirius XM was
exploring programming alternatives in case the satellite
broadcaster and Stern weren’t able to agree on a new contract.
Without Stern, Sirius XM would “save $100 million a year” and
use the money to fill the programming gap with various types of
shows, said Karmazin, 67.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sarah Rabil  in New York at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
 Brett Pulley  in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  