-- SocGen, HSBC Sell Dollar Debt as Europe Slows: Credit Markets
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s   a n d   B e n   M a r t i n
-- 2010-12-09T18:11:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/socgen-hsbc-tap-u-s-for-funds-as-europe-sales-evaporate-credit-markets.html
Societe Generale SA  and  HSBC Holdings
Plc  issued almost $3 billion of dollar-denominated bonds as an
expanding sovereign-debt crisis slowed sales in Europe.  SocGen, France’s second-largest lender, sold $2 billion of
notes in a three-part offering at relative yields approaching
those it paid in a similar transaction three months ago, before
Ireland’s fiscal woes roiled credit markets. London-based HSBC
issued $1 billion of debt in the first benchmark sale by a
European bank in the U.S. in more than a month.  “The senior unsecured market in Europe seems to be
relatively closed for the time being, so the route to take is
the dollar market, which is also looking a bit more promising,”
said  Jeroen van den Broek , a credit strategist at ING Bank NV in
Amsterdam.  Sales in Europe are on pace this week to remain at the
lowest excluding holiday periods in a decade. Borrowers from
breakfast-cereal maker  Kellogg Co.  to junk-rated  Seagate
Technology Plc  joined the banks in tapping the U.S. bond market,
selling $6.45 billion of debt the day after President  Barack Obama  agreed to extend tax cuts enacted by his predecessor.  HSBC Finance Corp.’s sale, a reopening of an October issue
due January 2021, and SocGen’s offering are the first benchmark
unsecured sales by European lenders since Paris-based BNP
Paribas, the world’s largest bank by assets, issued $650 million
of notes on Nov. 5, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Benchmark sales are typically at least $500 million.  Pilgrim’s Pride  “These are highly rated institutions with relatively
straight-forward offerings,” said  Scott MacDonald , head of
credit and economic research at Aladdin Capital Management LLC
in Stamford, Connecticut. “The French economy isn’t sitting in
the dog house and the U.K. economy appears to moving in the
right direction. If you look at what’s come into the market,
it’s the right flavor.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own company bonds worldwide instead of similar-
maturity government debt fell 1 basis point to 172 basis points,
or 1.72 percentage points, down from this year’s high of 201
basis points in June, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate Index. Yields averaged
3.94 percent.  Pilgrim’s Pride Corp., the chicken producer acquired by
Brazilian meat processor JBS SA last year, sold $500 million of
eight-year senior unsecured debt in a boosted offering,
Bloomberg data show. The 7.875 percent debt yields 510 basis
points more than similar-maturity Treasuries, the data show. The
company earlier marketed $350 million of the debt.  Default Swaps Fall  The cost of protecting corporate bonds from default in the
U.S. fell. The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index,
which investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or
to speculate on creditworthiness, decreased 0.6 basis point to a
mid-price of 88.03 basis points as of 1:08 p.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  The index, which typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates, is at the lowest since
Nov. 8, when it ended at 87.8.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Spreads on bonds sold by U.S. banks have fallen 11 basis
points this month, compared with 4 basis points for financial
company debt in Europe, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data.  European Banks  Issuance by European banks in the U.S. plummeted to $2.08
billion last month, an 86 percent decline from the $14.9 billion
sold in October and a drop of 88 percent from the $17.1 billion
issued in November 2009, Bloomberg data show. That includes a $1
billion sale of covered bonds by Amsterdam-based ING.  Covered bonds are typically backed by mortgages or public-
sector loans. The collateral underlying the debt remains with
the issuer.  Companies have issued 1.09 billion euros ($1.44 billion) of
debt in Europe since Dec. 6, following 1.68 billion euros in all
of last week, the least excluding holiday periods since December
2000, Bloomberg data show.  SocGen sold $250 million of three-year floating-rate notes
that yield 132 basis points more than the three-month London
interbank offered rate, $1 billion of 2.5 percent debt due
January 2014 that pays 158 basis points more than similar-
maturity Treasuries and $750 million of 3.5 percent securities
maturing two years later at 175 basis points.  In its last benchmark dollar-denominated offering, Paris-
based SocGen issued $2 billion of debt on Sept. 7 split evenly
in two parts, Bloomberg data show. The 2.2 percent notes due in
September 2013 yielded 150 basis points more than Treasuries and
the 3.1 percent securities maturing two years later paid a
spread of 170 basis points, Bloomberg data show.  ‘Doomsday Sentiment’  “There’s not an impending doomsday sentiment to the market
at which point you’d have to pay a lot more to get deals done,”
said  Simon Ballard , a London-based credit strategist at RBC
Capital Markets. “The whole market has been fairly well
underpinned.”  Obama said Dec. 7 he would agree to sustain tax cuts
enacted by  George W. Bush  for high-income taxpayers in exchange
for extending federal unemployment insurance and cutting the
payroll tax by $120 billion for one year. The current tax rates,
enacted in 2001 and 2003, are set to increase Dec. 31.  Kellogg’s $1 billion of 4 percent, 10-year notes pay a
spread of 88 basis points, Bloomberg data show. Proceeds may be
used to fund pension contributions and to repay commercial paper
borrowings used for share buybacks, the Battle Creek, Michigan-
based maker of Corn Flakes and Rice Krispies said yesterday in a
regulatory filing.  Seagate Offering  Dublin-based Seagate, the world’s largest maker of disk
drives, sold $750 million of eight-year senior notes as it seeks
to refinance debt after rejecting buyouts from TPG Capital and
competitor Western Digital Corp. The bonds are rated Ba1 by
Moody’s, one level below investment grade, and an equivalent BB+
by S&P.  Irish Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  won the backing of
lawmakers on Dec. 7 in the first votes on his 6 billion-euro
budget to tackle the country’s debt crisis. The government is
under pressure to pass the legislation as the fiscal squeeze
threatens to prolong a slump that has seen the economy shrink 11
percent over the past three years.  “The risk appetite for European credits will wax and wane
based on the headlines,” said  John Hawley , who helps manage $22
billion of investment-grade credit as a money manager at Aviva
Investors in Des Moines, Iowa. “It’s an ongoing issue in terms
of what the ultimate solution is for Europe and everyone knows
it’s going to take a while for that to work out.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tim Catts  in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net ;
 Ben Martin  in London at 
 bmartin38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  