-- Korean Won Climbs on Export Optimism; BOK Keeps Rate Unchanged
-- B y   F r a n c e s   Y o o n
-- 2010-12-09T08:02:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/south-korean-won-climbs-on-optimism-u-s-growth-to-boost-exports.html
South Korea’s won advanced on
optimism tax cuts in the U.S. will spur a rebound in economic
growth in the country’s second-largest export market.  The  Kospi  share index also climbed, to its highest level in
three years, ahead of data that economists predict will show
Americans filed fewer initial jobless claims last week. South
Korean government bonds pared some of their losses after the
central bank kept the seven-day repurchase  rate  unchanged at 2.5
percent, as forecast by all 10 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “If global growth is supported by U.S. tax cuts, it will
be easier for Asian central banks to raise rates,” said  Dariusz Kowalczyk , senior economist at Credit Agricole CIB in Hong Kong.  The won rose 0.6 percent to 1,139.40 per dollar as of the 3
p.m. close in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
touched 1,130.80 on Dec. 7, the highest level since Nov. 23. The
currency strengthened 9.5 percent in the past six months, the
best performance among Asia’s 10 most-traded currencies
excluding the yen.  Central bank Governor  Kim Choong Soo  said today South Korea
will continue to normalize interest rates. Consumer price growth
may accelerate to around 3.5 percent in early 2011, he added.
The country’s producer prices rose 4.9 percent in November from
a year earlier, compared with a gain of 5 percent in October.  Kowalczyk said monetary tightening will be needed to manage
expectations for price increases. Consumer  prices  rose 3.3
percent from a year earlier in November, after breaching the
Bank of Korea’s 4 percent ceiling the previous month.  The decision to keep interest rates unchanged today was
unanimous, Kim said, adding that the economy may grow 6 percent
this year.  Government Bonds  The yield on the 3 percent bonds due December 2013 rose 10
basis points to 3.18 percent, according to the Korea Stock
Exchange. The debt dropped as U.S. Treasury yields surged after
President  Barack Obama  agreed to extend Bush-era tax cuts.  “We might see interest rates rise as there is a lot of
optimism forming about the U.S. economy,” said  Peter Park , a
fixed-income analyst for Woori Investment & Securities Co in
Seoul. “Korea’s central bank may start increasing its benchmark
rate in February.”  The central bank dropped its pledge to keep monetary policy
“accommodative” after its second rate increase of the year on
Nov. 16. The Bank of Korea raised borrowing costs for the first
time this year in July, lifting the benchmark rate from a
record-low 2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Frances Yoon  in Seoul at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 