-- South African Consumer Spending, Manufacturing Add to Recovery
-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 2010-12-09T15:47:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/south-africa-s-consumer-spending-climbs-strengthening-economic-recovery.html
South African consumer spending grew
at a faster pace in the third quarter, while manufacturing
growth accelerated in October, strengthening the recovery in
Africa’s biggest economy.  Household expenditure increased an annualized 5.9 percent
in the three months through September, up from 4.9 percent in
the second quarter, the Pretoria-based Reserve Bank said today.
 Manufacturing  rose an annual 2.5 percent in October, up from 1.3
percent in September, the statistics office said.  The central bank has cut its  benchmark interest rate  three
times to 5.5 percent this year as the rand’s rally against the
dollar helped to keep inflation inside the 3 percent to 6
percent target range. The recovery in consumer spending may help
to bolster economic growth, which Governor  Gill Marcus  said
yesterday will be “disappointing,” at less than 3 percent this
year.  “Momentum appears to be picking up as the economy
stabilizes and begins to exit the soft patch of the last two
quarters,”  Ahmet Akarli , an economist at Goldman Sachs Inc. in
London, said in a note to clients today. “We continue to expect
more robust domestic demand to drive growth.”  Low interest rates have helped to offset the impact on
spending of job losses, which have pushed the  unemployment rate 
to 25.3 percent, the highest of 62 countries tracked by
Bloomberg.  Labor Costs  Consumers have also benefited from rising wages, with
growth in unit labor costs accelerating to 10.8 percent in the
second quarter, from 10.3 percent in the first quarter, the
Reserve Bank said in its Quarterly Bulletin today.  Manufacturing output may strengthen further after the
 Purchasing Managers Index  rose above 50 in November, indicating
an expansion in factory production, Kagiso Securities Ltd. said
on Dec. 1. The recovery is being hampered by the rand, which has
gained 11 percent against the dollar since June 1, reducing the
competitiveness of exports.  Strikes in the motor-vehicle industry and slow growth in
Europe, which buys a third of South African exports, undermined
manufacturing output last quarter, slowing economic growth to
2.6 percent from 2.8 percent in the previous three months.  “2010 is a year of welcomed recovery,”  Johan van den Heever , the bank’s deputy chief economist, told officials and
reporters in Pretoria today. “But it’s also been frustrating
because the growth rate isn’t sufficient to make inroads into
unemployment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 