-- South African Current Account Deficit Widens to 3% of GDP on Cheap Imports
-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 2010-12-09T08:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/south-african-current-account-deficit-widens-to-3-of-gdp-on-cheap-imports.html
South Africa’s current account
 deficit  widened in the third quarter from a six-year low in the
previous three months as a stronger rand fuelled demand for
cheaper imports and tourism revenue fell following the end of
the FIFA World Cup.  The shortfall, the broadest measure of trade in goods and
services, reached 3 percent of gross domestic product compared
with 2.5 percent in the second quarter, the Reserve Bank said in
its Quarterly Bulletin released in the capital, Pretoria, today.  Consumers are buying more imported goods as the rand’s 11
percent surge against the dollar since June 1 cuts the price of
items such as DVD players and microwave ovens, while interest
rates are at a 30-year low. South Africa had no difficulty
financing the current account deficit, as foreign investors more
than doubled their purchases of local bonds last quarter to 41.2
billion rand ($6 billion), lured by higher yields, the bank
said.  “The more accommodative monetary and fiscal policy
measures adopted by many developed countries to deal with the
aftermath of the global financial crisis continued to bolster
investment flows into high-yielding emerging-market assets,”
the Reserve Bank said in its report.  Foreign portfolio investment, which includes purchases of
stocks and bonds, climbed to 45.8 billion rand in the third
quarter from 28.4 billion rand in the previous three months, the
bank said.  ‘Achilles Heel’  Africa’s biggest  economy  relies on foreign portfolio
investment to fund the current account deficit, flows that have
fluctuated depending on investors’ appetite for riskier assets.
The government has referred to the shortfall as the nation’s
“Achilles heel,” while the International Monetary Fund has
recommended South Africa take measures to attract more foreign
direct investment instead.  Direct investment by foreign companies dropped to 1.1
billion rand last quarter from 2.9 billion rand in the previous
three months, according to the central bank.  Export volumes, excluding gold, increased 6.4 percent,
though this was offset by a stronger rand and lower prices for
coal, platinum and nickel, the bank said. Imports rose 5.4
percent in the quarter, with the currency’s appreciation helping
to cut import prices by 2 percent.  The current account gap was expected to reach 3.2 percent
of GDP in the third quarter, according to the median estimate of
16 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg. The deficit amounted to an
annualized 79.2 billion rand, compared with 66.6 billion rand in
the second quarter, the central bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 