-- Sprint May Phase Out Nextel Brand Following Network Upgrade, Alves Says
-- B y   G r e g   B e n s i n g e r
-- 2010-12-09T21:29:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/sprint-may-scrap-nextel-brand-after-5-billion-network-upgrade-alves-says.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. , the third-
largest U.S. mobile-phone carrier, may phase out the Nextel
brand following a planned $5 billion network upgrade that will
do away with the brand’s underlying technology.  Sprint may rename  Nextel  or allow the brand it acquired as
part of its $36 billion purchase of Nextel Communications Inc.
to peter out,  Paget Alves , president of business markets, said
today in an interview in New York. The carrier said Dec. 6 it
will discontinue Nextel’s integrated digital enhanced network,
or iDEN, in 2013 to focus on its more broadly used network.  “We’re going to evaluate the naming of the service,”
Alves said, adding that the Overland Park, Kansas-based carrier
hasn’t yet made a decision. “There are a number of options
we’re considering.”  The number of  Sprint  customers using the iDEN network fell
18 percent to 10.6 million in this year’s first three quarters.
Nextel, accounting for about a fifth of Sprint’s customers, is
known for its push-to-talk service that allows mobile phones to
work like walkie-talkies.  Sprint is upgrading its network over the next three to five
years so that its disparate bands of spectrum can be combined on
a single type of base station, in a project costing $4 billion
to $5 billion. The carrier expects the upgrade to save at least
$10 billion in seven years due to lower energy costs, roaming
expenses and other items.  Alves said Sprint was undertaking the network upgrade to
improve efficiency and let it change technology if necessary
from its current fourth-generation service, known as WiMax.  Sprint gained 3 cents to $4.15 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite  trading . The shares have added 13 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Bensinger  in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  