-- Standard Chartered Sees Record Profit, Rising Costs
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g   a n d   J o n   M e n o n
-- 2010-12-09T16:38:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/standard-chartered-forecasts-record-full-year-profit-says-margins-narrow.html
Standard Chartered Plc,  the British
bank generating more than three quarters of earnings from Asia,
forecast record full-year profit even as expansion and increased
regulatory scrutiny drove costs higher.  The bank’s second-half “income levels” will be “broadly
flat” from the previous six months, Standard Chartered said in
a statement today. Net interest income fell “fractionally”
this year from 2009, it said.  “Although apparently representing a small miss against
elevated market expectations, we regard today’s pre-close
trading update as characteristically reassuring, providing clear
confirmation of robust” growth, wrote  Ian Gordon , an analyst at
Exane BNP Paribas who has a “underperform” rating on the
stock. “The statement again reaffirms why Standard Chartered is
probably the best bank in the world.”  Standard Chartered  doubled its headcount over the past five
years to 85,000 as it focused on expanding markets in Asia, the
Middle East and Africa. The  bank  has been the best-performer
among the world’s 25 biggest lenders by market value since the
start of the credit crisis in July 2007, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “We are on track to deliver another year of record income
and profit,” Finance Director  Richard Meddings  told journalists
on a conference call today. He was “comfortable” with
analysts’ full-year pretax profit expectations of $6.13 billion,
made in October. That compares with the current $6.3 billion
median estimate of 28  analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg.  Rising Costs  Costs are expected to rise faster than revenue this year
“by broadly the same margin” as in the first half, Standard
Chartered said. Expenses are being driven by expansion in the
branch network and by rising numbers of employees, as well as by
“increased regulatory and compliance costs” and stiffer
competition for employees. Cost growth will be “broadly in
line” with revenue in 2011, after the bank hired about 7,000
people this year, Meddings said.  “Standard Chartered is not good at cost control,” said
 Raymond Siu , a Hong Kong-based analyst at Quam Ltd. who rates
the stock a “hold.”  The company  declined  3.6 percent to 1810 pence at the close
of London trading for a market value of 42.4 billion pounds
($66.7 billion). Standard Chartered recorded the worst
performance in the five-member  FTSE 350  index of U.K. banks.  The bank raised about 3.3 billion pounds in a rights offer
in October ahead of regulatory changes forcing banks to hold
more  capital .  Revenue to Double  Standard Chartered plans to more than double revenue from
global  trading  and underwriting over the next three years,
 Leonard Feder , head of the division, said in November. The bank
experienced a “slowdown” in its Financial Markets” unit in
the fourth quarter, from the third quarter, Meddings said.  “Standard Chartered is building up its capabilities before
all its competitors start to speed up their own expansion
plans,” said  Dominic Chan , an analyst at BNP Paribas SA in Hong
Kong. “The expansion will contribute to its medium-term growth
prospects.”  The bank forecast “double digit” pretax profit growth for
its consumer and corporate banking units. Credit quality is
good, with declining bad debts, Standard Chartered said.  Pretax profit expectations “are reduced on higher-than-
expected margin erosion and higher cost growth,” wrote  Cormac Leech , an analyst at Canaccord Genuity Ltd. in an e-mailed note
to investors today. Investors may be “disappointed,” he added.  The  bank  in August posted net income of $2.15 billion for
the first half of the year, compared with $1.93 billion a year
earlier, on lower writedowns for bad loans.  The bank last month said it won’t join any pact among
British lender to restrain bonuses for 2010 because 97 percent
of its employees work outside the U.K. It has also examined the
costs and benefits of relocating overseas amid rising taxation
and increased regulation for U.K.-based banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jon Menon  in London at 
 jmenon1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  