-- State Street Sells $11 Billion in Securities to Meet Tigher Capital Rules
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n   a n d   B r a d l e y   K e o u n
-- 2010-12-09T21:30:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/state-street-sells-11-billion-in-mortgage-debt-takes-350-million-charge.html
State Street Corp ., the third-largest
custody bank, sold $11 billion in mortgage-backed securities and
other assets, a step more financial companies may take after
global regulators agreed to tighten capital rules.  The transaction will reduce earnings by $350 million in the
current quarter, the Boston-based company said today in a
statement. Fitch Ratings raised its individual ratings on State
Street and its bank subsidiary, State Street Bank & Trust, to B
from B/C, saying the firm’s risk appetite is “more
restrained.”  The Group of 20 nations last month endorsed rules, known as
Basel III, increasing the level of the highest-quality capital
that banks must hold to cushion against losses and avoid a
repeat of the financial crisis. After the transaction, State
Street’s Tier 1 common capital ratio, the most important
regulatory measure of a bank’s financial health, will rise to
8.8 percent under the new rules, the bank estimated. The new
minimum under the rules is 7 percent.  “This is quite favorable for the long-term investor,”
 Gerard Cassidy , an analyst at RBC Capital Markets in Portland,
Maine, said in a telephone interview. “They’ve improved the
integrity of the balance sheet at the expense of near-term
earnings.”  State Street fell 44 cents, or 1 percent, to $45.74 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. It has
climbed 5.1 percent this year, compared with a 10 percent gain
for Standard & Poor’s  index  of asset managers and custody banks.  Reducing Risk  Bank of America Corp ., based in Charlotte, North Carolina,
repackaged $13 billion of mortgage-linked securities into new
bonds in the first half of the year, a technique that allowed
the bank to reduce its assets by $5.2 billion.  State Street’s  divestment  will improve “capital ratios
under evolving regulatory capital standards” and reduce risk
from “certain assets,” the company said in the statement.  The transaction will reduce net interest income by $375
million in 2011, State Street said. The company reiterated a
forecast for 2010 full-year operating profit to be “slightly”
higher than the $3.32 a share reported in 2009.  The sale included U.S. non-agency mortgage-backed
securities valued at $4.1 billion and asset-backed securities of
$3.7 billion, as well as non-U.S. mortgage-backed and asset-
backed securities of $3.1 billion, State Street said.  State Street plans to reinvest the proceeds from the sale
mostly in asset-backed and mortgage-backed securities rated AAA
and AA, the two highest levels, as well as U.S. Treasuries and
agency securities, according to the statement. By replacing
lower-rated holdings with less-risky assets, the bank improved
its Tier 1 common ratio. The sale reduces State Street’s risk-
weighted assets to $63.7 billion from $75.6 billion as of Sept.
30.  Capital Standards  The new capital standards, approved by the Basel committee
in September, will more than double the ratio of capital banks
must hold in relation to the amount of risk on their balance
sheets. While the standards don’t phase in for eight years,
banks may face restrictions on dividends or share buybacks from
domestic regulators if they don’t reach compliance sooner,
according to the New York-based brokerage firm KBW Inc.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . in New York is offering U.S. home-
loan bonds without government backing to investors after
acquiring about $6 billion in a single trade this month, three
people familiar with the matter said yesterday. State Street
Corp. sold the notes, the people said.  Morgan Stanley, Barclays  Additional buyers also included New York’s  Morgan Stanley 
and London-based  Barclays Plc , others familiar with the
transactions said.  Michael DuVally, a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, declined to
comment, as did Mark Lane, a Barclays spokesman, and Mark Lake,
a Morgan Stanley spokesman.  The new rules may increase the supply of securitized debt
bought before the financial crisis, especially from European
banks, though that will be tempered by the changes not taking
effect for several years, said  Scott Buchta , head of investment
strategy at New York-based broker Braver Stern Securities.  A pick-up in sales of collateralized loan obligations,
backed by high-yield, high-risk corporate debt, in London
recently also may be a result of capital-rule changes, Buchta
said. At the same time, a “recovery” in values may be even
more of a driver of recent sales of securitized debt, he added.  State Street held $46 billion in structured securities
within its $100 billion investment portfolio, as of Sept. 30,
according to a company presentation. The overall portfolio held
$281 million in after-tax, unrealized mark-to-market losses,
down from $2.99 billion a year earlier.  ‘Discount Accretion’  State Street wrote down the value of holdings in its
investment portfolio by $3.7 billion in May 2009 to reflect
market prices. As those holdings mature at face value, the firm
recovers the amount written down and records that as “discount
accretion” within net interest income.  Because of the sale, expected discount accretion in 2011
will fall to $175 million from $550 million.  Custody banks keep records, track performance and lend
securities to institutional investors such as pension plans and
hedge funds. State Street also manages mutual funds and
institutional investor accounts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christopher Condon  in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net ;
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  