-- Steinhoff Is in Exclusive Talks With PPR to Buy Conforama for $1.6 Billion
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2010-12-09T16:55:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/steinhoff-is-in-exclusive-talks-with-ppr-to-buy-conforama-for-1-6-billion.html
Steinhoff International Holdings
Ltd. , Africa’s largest furniture maker, entered into exclusive
talks to buy  PPR SA ’s Conforama chain for 1.2 billion euros
($1.59 billion) in cash to strengthen its position in Europe.  Including assumed liabilities, the offer values France’s
second-largest furniture retailer at 1.625 billion euros, said
two people with knowledge of the matter, who asked not to be
named because the discussions are private. PPR said the offer’s
total value is more than 1.5 billion euros.  For Steinhoff, acquiring Conforama would add 241 stores to
the Johannesburg-based company’s 951 retail outlets across
Europe. PPR would move a step closer to its aim of focusing on
its Gucci Group luxury goods unit and Puma AG sporting-goods
division. The Paris-based company also plans to sell the Fnac
music chain and mail-order retailer Redcats.  “We are very much in favor of the deal because we think it
will greatly enhance Steinhoff’s ability to distribute its goods
in Europe and it will cut the costs of distribution for
Conforama,” said  Wayne McCurrie , a fund manager at RMB Asset
Management in Johannesburg, which holds shares in Steinhoff.  Steinhoff rose 1 rand, or 4.4 percent, to 23.60 rand in
Johannesburg trading today, the highest since May, 2007. PPR
 shares  fell 2.1 euros, or 1.7 percent, to 124.80 euros in Paris.  Shareholder Support  Excluding debt, the transaction would value Conforama at
about 6.1 times 2009 earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, Bloomberg calculations show.  “It certainly seems like a reasonable price and I think
it’s a good deal for both PPR and Steinhoff,” said  Mark Hodgson , an analyst Avior Research in Cape Town, who has a
“buy” rating on Steinhoff.  The transaction has the support of more than 50 percent of
Steinhoff’s shareholders and may conclude in the next few weeks
after staff representatives are consulted, the companies said.  Steinhoff has been working to acquire Conforama for four
years, Chief Executive Officer  Markus Jooste  said in an e-mailed
response to questions from Bloomberg News.  The proposed purchase “will allow us to reinforce our
position as one of Europe’s leading integrated furniture and
household-goods companies,”  Jooste  said in a statement.  Steinhoff operates more than 50 factories in countries such
as Poland, the Netherlands, Australia and South Africa, and has
more than 1,100 retail outlets. It employs about 41,000 people.  PPR Acquisitions?  Conforama  ranks behind Ikea in France and also has stores
in Switzerland, Luxembourg, Spain, Portugal, Italy and Croatia.  The retailer’s earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization increased 32 percent to 83 million
euros in the first six months of 2010 as sales rose 6.2 percent.
Third-quarter sales gained 9.8 percent.  PPR may acquire more brands to bolster its luxury division
and sports and lifestyle unit after selling one or two of the
retail businesses, Chairman and CEO  Francois-Henri Pinault  said
Oct. 18.  There have been 692 acquisitions announced in the retail
industry in the past 12 months, according to Bloomberg data.  Burberry Group Plc , the U.K.’s largest luxury retailer,
climbed as much as 6.6 percent in London trading yesterday on
speculation that PPR may make a bid.  “Acquisitions in lifestyle are more likely than, say
Burberry, which I think was an old idea,” said  Luca Solca , an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein.  ‘A Bit Expensive’  Pinault is interested in buying  Quiksilver Inc.,  La Tribune
said today. He has reestablished contact with the California-
based maker of clothing for skateboarders and surfers, as well
as with Rhone Capital, which holds a 19 percent stake in
Quiksilver, according to the newspaper.  Quiksilver rose as much as 18 percent in New York trading,
increasing the company’s market value to about $897 million.  “My fear is that in having to go out and look for brands
that aren’t dilutive on returns, they may today pay multiples
that are a bit expensive, particularly in sports lifestyle,”
 Fabio Fazzari , an analyst at Equity Sim SpA, said of PPR.  “PPR will take the time to buy well as it takes the time
to sell well,” spokeswoman Charlotte Judet said by e-mail,
after earlier declining to comment on the La Tribune report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 