-- Sudan's Referendum in Abyei Will Not Take Place, Presidential Aide Says
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2010-12-09T14:45:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/sudan-s-referendum-in-abyei-will-not-take-place-presidential-aide-says.html
Sudan’s disputed border region
of Abyei will not hold a scheduled referendum on whether to
join the north or south because of a disagreement over who
can vote, an aide to President  Umar al-Bashir  said.  “The referendum will not take place,”  Nafie Ali Nafie 
told the Qatar-based Al Jazeera news channel in an
interview yesterday.  Nafie made his comments on the same day that U.S.
State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said it’s
 “virtually impossible”  for the Jan. 9 vote in Abyei to be
held on time, according to the State Department’s website.  The Abyei plebiscite is scheduled to be held
simultaneously with oil-rich Southern Sudan’s referendum on
independence. The two votes are part of a 2005  peace
agreement  that ended a 21-year civil war between the Muslim
north and the oil-producing south, where Christianity and
traditional beliefs dominate. About 2 million people died
in the conflict and 4 million fled their homes.  The  Permanent Court of Arbitration  in The Hague last
year set Abyei’s borders to the immediate area around
settlements of the Ngok Dinka people, who consider
themselves southerners, largely excluding Misseriya cattle-
herders who back the north.  The referendum would only be held “if all the people
of Abyei participate, not just the Ngok Dinka,” Nafie said.  Permanent Residents  The  Sudan People’s Liberation Movement , which governs
the southern region, and the Ngok Dinka say that only
permanent residents should be eligible to vote.  The Misseriya, who graze their cattle in the region a
few months each year, say that as seasonal inhabitants of
Abyei, they should also have the right to vote. Misseriya
leaders say they fear losing traditional grazing rights in
the area, especially if Abyei became part of future
independent Southern Sudan.  Pagan Amum , the secretary-general of the SPLM, accused
al-Bashir’s government in October of holding Abyei
“hostage.”  Clashes two years ago in Abyei between the armies of
northern and southern Sudan killed 89 people and forced
more than 90,000 people to flee their homes, according to
the  United Nations .  The African Union’s High Level Panel on Sudan, headed
by former South African President  Thabo Mbeki , presented
the two parties with a “secret” set of proposals to
overcome the impasse after previous talks failed to reach
an agreement on the region.  While Mbeki declined to give details on the proposals
after a meeting between the two parties on Dec. 7, he said
they were discussing them.  One of the proposals the two sides are discussing is
for the region to be divided between Sudan’s northern and
southern regions, Nafie told Al Jazeera.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maram Mazen  in Khartoum via the Cairo newsroom at
   mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at or  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 