-- Summers Says U.S. Economy Would Be Worse Off Without Obama Tax Compromise
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2010-12-09T17:44:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/summers-says-u-s-economy-would-be-worse-off-without-obama-tax-compromise.html
White House economic adviser  Lawrence Summers  said the compromise deal on taxes between the
administration and congressional Republicans will help remove
doubt about the U.S. economic recovery, which faces more
challenges because of Europe’s financial turmoil.  “We’ve taken a major risk out” by assuring the public
that tax cuts for middle-income Americans won’t expire at the
end of the year and that the long-term unemployed will get
assistance, Summers, director of President  Barack Obama ’s
National Economic Council, said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television. “We’re in a more difficult situation” because of
instability in Europe.  The one-year cut of 2 percentage points in the payroll tax
along with a provision allowing businesses to write off expenses
will give an “extra impetus” to the economy, he said.  Democrats in the House, who have expressed opposition to
the compromise, put up a roadblock to the measure today, voting
in their caucus against bringing the agreement to the floor.
Senate Democratic leaders have been moving forward with a vote
as early as this week.  The administration is mounting a campaign to corral support
from congressional Democrats. Obama, at a meeting of his export
council this morning, said the agreement will give businesses
incentive to invest and hire and ensure tax breaks for families.  “But if this framework fails, the reverse is true,” he
said. “Americans would see it in smaller paychecks that would
have the effect of fewer jobs.”  ‘Major Setback’  Scott Davis , chairman and chief executive of UPS, said it
would be “a major setback” if the legislation doesn’t get
approved this year.  “This tax proposal would help continue the recovery; I
think it’s vital to the recovery,” Davis told reporters at The
White House after the export council meeting.  The S&P 500 fell 0.1 percent to 1,227.50 at 11:46 a.m. in
New York after gaining 0.5 percent earlier. The Dow lost 36.03
points, or 0.3 percent, to 11,336.45. The Dollar Index added 0.3
percent, rising a fourth day in its longest rally in a month.  One of the biggest Democratic objections is to the estate-
tax provision, which would set the top rate at 35 percent after
a $5 million tax-free allowance per individual.  Summers said that provision is “not wise.”  “It is a very poor measure for creating jobs,” he said.
The administration accepted Republican insistence on including
it because “that’s what compromise is.”  Deficit Effect  Summers said the tax package will help reduce the budget
 deficit  “in the medium term” as some corporate tax breaks are
phased out and as a result of added economic growth.  “Is it
enough? No, surely it is not,” he said.  Obama is committed to adopting some of the recommendations
from his panel on deficit reduction, which issued its report
last week, he said. The federal deficit was $1.294 trillion in
fiscal 2010.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said he hopes to release
the text of the bill today and to “stay tuned” on timing of a
vote. Bringing the measure to the floor may signal that
Democratic leaders are close to having the 60 votes needed to
advance the measure even as some party members seek changes.  After her caucus voted, House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  said in
a statement that lawmakers “will continue discussions” with
the administration and Republicans “to improve the proposal
before it comes to the House floor for a vote.”  In addition to the estate tax, Democrats objected to
continuing the tax cuts for the highest-earning Americans.  Obama yielded to Republican demands to extend Bush-era
income-tax cuts for two years for all, including the highest-
earning Americans. Democrats have sought to limit the tax
reductions, which expire Dec. 31, to the first $200,000 of
annual income for individuals and $250,000 for married couples.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
 Kate Andersen Brower  in Washington at 
 Kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  