-- Support for Christie's Rail Tunnel Cancellation Grows, Rutgers Poll Shows
-- B y   D u n s t a n   M c N i c h o l
-- 2010-12-09T20:39:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/support-for-christie-s-rail-tunnel-cancellation-grows-rutgers-poll-shows.html
More  New Jersey  residents support
Gov.  Chris Christie ’s cancellation of a proposed $8.7 billion
Hudson River commuter-rail tunnel than immediately following his
October decision, a Rutgers-Eagleton poll shows.  After hearing a brief description of the project’s economic
value, 56 percent of respondents supported Christie’s decision,
up from 51 percent in October, according to the poll released
today. An extension of New York’s No. 7 subway was supported by
74 percent of those queried, with 13 percent opposed.  “Across New Jersey, residents continue to support the
governor’s decision to cancel the project,” said  David Redlawsk , the poll’s director and a Rutgers professor of
politics. “At the same time there is recognition that
increasing mass-transit options into and out of New York - if
that can be done at a lower cost - is a good idea.”  Advised of the U.S. Transportation Department’s demand for
repayment of $271 million in federal funds spent on the project
before it was stopped, respondents opposed canceling it, 47
percent to 37 percent, the poll said. The board of  New Jersey
Transit , the state agency in charge of the project, voted today
to hire lawyers from the Washington law firm  Patton Boggs LLP  at
$485 an hour to contest the bill.  Christie, a first-term Republican, killed the 8.8-mile (14-
kilometer) tunnel, projected to double commuter capacity in and
out of Manhattan from New Jersey, on Oct. 27 because he said the
state couldn’t afford $5 billion in potential extra costs.  The telephone survey of 906 residents was conducted from
Dec. 2-6 and has a margin of error of plus or minus 3.3
percentage points. It was paid for by the Eagleton Institute of
Politics at Rutgers in New Brunswick, New Jersey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dunstan McNichol  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 dmcnichol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  