-- Sweden Probes Cyber Attacks That Followed Arrest of WikiLeaks' Assange
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2010-12-09T17:13:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/sweden-probes-cyber-attacks-following-arrest-of-wikileaks-founder-assange.html
Swedish law enforcement officials
said they are probing cyber attacks that crashed government
websites following the U.K. arrest of WikiLeaks founder  Julian Assange , who is fighting extradition to Sweden.  The Swedish Prosecution Authority said its website was
“deliberately attacked” on the night of Dec. 7 and have
referred the matter for investigation. The 39-year-old
Australian is in a London jail after Sweden issued an
international arrest warrant over rape and molestation
allegations.  Hackers have crippled Swedish government websites and those
of credit card companies Visa Europe Ltd. and  MasterCard Inc.  to
protest the treatment of Assange and WikiLeaks. The activist’s
supporters claim the rape allegations are meant to silence him
after he leaked thousands of secret U.S. documents.  “The hacking was a spontaneous outburst of activity from
people in the community who are sympathetic,” Assange’s U.K.
lawyer,  Mark Stephens  said today in an interview from his mobile
phone. “Some have said it’s Julian’s revenge. That’s totally
untrue.”  Stephens, with Finers Stephens Innocent LLP in London, said
the hacking was “misguided” and that Assange gave no
instructions for such an attack. Stephens regularly represents
media organizations, including Bloomberg News.  Denied Bail  Assange turned himself in and was arrested in the U.K. on
Dec. 7 after Swedish police issued the warrant. Assange, who was
denied bail, challenged the request to turn him over to Swedish
authorities and says the sex was consensual. Stephens said the
arrest was “political.”  The websites of MasterCard and Visa Europe came under
attack by hackers after the companies banned WikiLeaks’ use of
their brands in response to the release of thousands of secret
U.S. military and State Department documents.  MasterCard and London-based Visa Europe, operator of the
largest card network in the European Union, cut-off WikiLeaks
for possibly violating their terms of use by releasing the
files. The companies followed  EBay Inc.  unit PayPal, which
recently cut access to WikiLeaks for violating the online
payment processor’s acceptable use policy.  “There’s no reasonable basis for them to do what they
did,” Stephens said. “WikiLeaks has not been accused of doing
anything other than that which is morally repugnant to some and
morally laudable to others.”  ‘No Allegations’  London’s Metropolitan police aren’t investigating the
website hacking because “no allegations have been made,” said
a spokesman. He declined to specify further.  The cyber attacks “are further evidence of the severity of
the problem and the need to tackle it,”  Jonathan Todd , a
spokesman for European Union Digital Agenda Commissioner  Neelie Kroes  said by telephone today.  The European Commission, the 27-nation EU’s executive arm,
is working with national authorities and the private sector on
ways to combat such intrusions, said Todd.  Created in 2006, WikiLeaks receives confidential material
and posts it on the Internet “so readers and historians alike
can see evidence of the truth,” the nonprofit organization says
on its website. WikiLeaks relies on donations to fund operations
and accepts payments via credit card, bank transfer and postal
mail, according to the website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Larson  in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 