-- 
Swiss Stocks Advance, Led By Financials; Gategroup Shares Slide

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-04-06T15:49:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/swiss-stocks-climb-ubs-julius-baer-swiss-life-adecco-shares-increase.html
Stocks in  Switzerland  rose to a
four-week high, led by banks and insurers, as German factory
orders climbed more than forecast.  Swiss Reinsurance Co., the world’s second-biggest
reinsurer, jumped 3 percent.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  UBS AG (UBSN) ,
the nation’s largest banks, also gained.  Gategroup Holding AG (GATE) 
tumbled 7.2 percent as its chief executive officer resigned.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  of the biggest and most actively
traded companies added 0.2 percent to 6,443.06 at the 5:30 p.m.
close in Zurich, bringing its advance since March 16 to 7
percent. The broader Swiss Performance Index increased 0.1
percent to 5,876.73.  “We expect further upside potential for equities,” said
Patrick Hasenboehler, analyst at Bank Sarasin & Co. Ltd. in
 Basel , Switzerland. “We are aware of numerous risk factors, but
think these should be outweighed by still attractive
valuations.”  European stocks climbed after the Economy Ministry in
Berlin said that German factory orders, adjusted for seasonal
swings and inflation, gained 2.4 percent from January, when they
jumped 3.1 percent. Economists had forecast a 0.5 percent
increase for February, according to a Bloomberg News survey.
From a year earlier, orders climbed 20.1 percent.  A separate report today showed Swiss inflation accelerated
more than economists forecast to the fastest pace in almost a
year in March, led by surging energy costs. Consumer prices
increased 1 percent from a year earlier after advancing 0.5
percent in February, the  Federal Statistics Office  in Neuchatel
said. That’s the biggest gain since May 2010.  Swiss Re Gains  Swiss Re surged 3 percent to 56.25 Swiss francs, a second
day of gains. Credit Suisse climbed 2.2 percent to 40.16 francs,
its first increase in three days. UBS advanced 1.7 percent to
16.91 francs.  Gauges of European banks and insurers increased more than
any other industry groups in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the owner of the drilling rig that
exploded and sank in last year’s fatal Gulf of Mexico disaster,
advanced 0.5 percent to 74.20 francs after earlier gaining as
much as 2.7 percent. The company said top executives will donate
to charity safety bonuses that drew criticism from U.S. Interior
Secretary Kenneth Salazar.  Gategroup, an airline catering supplier, plunged 7.2
percent to 45.90 francs. Chief Executive Officer Guy Dubois
resigned yesterday, telling the company’s board of directors he
takes responsibility for fraud carried out by a former employee.
Andrew Gibson was named interim chief executive.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Zurich at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net . 