-- Loans Hit 3-Year High in ‘Spectacular Time’: Canada Credit
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2010-12-09T16:30:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/syndicated-loans-hit-three-year-high-in-spectacular-time-canada-credit.html
Syndicated lending in Canada soared
to a three-year high in 2010 as companies including  Talisman
Energy Inc.  and Cenovus Energy Inc. take advantage of lower
borrowing costs.  Banks in Canada arranged 284 syndicated loans valued at
$94.5 billion this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s 62 percent higher than in 2009, and the most
since $166.7 billion in 2007, before the financial crisis.  The Bank of Canada’s  Senior Loan Officer Survey  revealed in
October that lending conditions eased in the third quarter for
the fifth consecutive period. The spread between the  Bank of
America Merrill Lynch Canadian Corporate Bond Index  and
government debt dropped as low as 118 basis points at the end of
March, the lowest level since October 2007. The index was at 142
basis points at the end of last month.  “When the credit crisis hit, the cost of borrowing went
sky-high,” said  Mark S. Chandler , head of Canadian syndicated
and leveraged finance at RBC Capital Markets in Toronto.
“Borrowers looked at the landscape and said ‘I’m not going to
renew my facility in the middle of that’.”  As spreads compressed over the past 12 to 18 months,
borrowers “came back to the market,” finding they could
refinance loan facilities less expensively, Chandler said in a
telephone interview.  RBC Capital, the investment-banking unit of  Royal Bank of
Canada , has been the top arranger of syndicated loans in Canada
since 2001, arranging 57 loans valued at $21.5 billion this
year, according to Bloomberg data. Some companies may not tap
the revolving credit facilities, where money can be borrowed
again once it’s been repaid.  Talisman Loans  RBC’s loans included a C$3.85 billion revolving credit line
for Talisman, a Calgary-based oil and natural gas explorer. The
loan pays an interest rate of 2 percentage points more than the
London interbank offered rate and matures in November 2014,
Bloomberg data show. Libor is the rate banks charge to lend to
each other. Canada’s biggest bank also led a C$2.5 billion
revolving line for Calgary-based  Cenovus , which also matures in
November 2014.  “It is a spectacular time to raise money in the
marketplace,” said  Larry Pollock , Chief Executive Officer of
Edmonton, Alberta-based Canadian Western Bank, the country’s
eight-largest bank by assets. “Yields are low, and the market
is buying up everything. It’s a very vibrant market right now,”
Pollock said in a telephone interview.  Elsewhere in Markets  Elsewhere in credit markets, Ontario sold $1.25 billion of
seven-year global bonds priced to yield 57.5 basis points more
than U.S. Treasuries. Bank of America Corp., Canadian Imperial
Bank of Commerce, TD Securities and UBS AG managed the sale.  Canadian new-home prices rose 0.1 percent in October, led
by Toronto and Vancouver, Statistics Canada said today.  Canada sold C$3.2 billion of three-year debt, drawing an
average yield of 2.09 percent. The government received bids of
C$7.8 billion for the 2 percent securities maturing in March
2014, according to a statement today on the Bank of Canada’s
website.  Bank of Montreal , the country’s fourth-largest bank, issued
C$1.5 billion in 3.49 percent deposit notes that mature in June
2016. The debt was sold at spread of 97.5 basis points.  The extra yield investors demand to own the debt of
Canadian investment-grade corporations rather than the federal
government was unchanged at 142 basis points from the day
before, according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index.
Yields rose to 4.03 percent, from 4.01 percent. Corporate bonds
have declined 0.84 percent this month.  Provincials Decline  In the provincial bond market, relative yields widened
yesterday to 55 basis points. Yields rose to 3.32 percent, from
3.31 percent on Dec. 7. The securities lost 1.2 percent in
November, the biggest decline since December 2009, and are down
1.4 percent this month.  Trailing RBC Capital in market share for loans this year
are TD Securities, the investment-banking division of Toronto-
Dominion Bank, and Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce’s CIBC.  Corporate bond issuance is also higher this year. Companies
have raised C$75.1 billion in 2010, the most since 2007,
according to Bloomberg data.  Gaz Métro Inc., Quebec’s biggest natural-gas distributor,
is looking for loans to finance its share of a C$1 billion wind-
energy project. The Montreal-based company, along with partner
 Boralex  Inc., is planning to build three wind farms on the
Seigneurie de Beaupré site outside Quebec City, with a total
annual capacity of about 340 megawatts.  French Advice  France’s BNP Paribas SA, the world’s biggest bank by
assets, is advising Gaz Métro on financing options for the
project.  “Our goal is to put the financing in place for the project
before the major expenses take place, so we want everything to
be wrapped up by the middle of 2011,” Gaz Métro Chief Financial
Officer  Pierre Despars  said in a telephone interview. “Rates
are interesting now, and we have to proceed with diligence if we
want to get attractive terms.”  Gaz Métro is considering loans rather than a bond sale
because the  Seigneurie de Beaupré  project isn’t operating yet,
Despars said. Debt will probably represent 75 percent of the
project, with equity making up the rest, he said.  “Financing conditions for infrastructure projects today
aren’t what they were before 2008, but they are getting close,”
Despars said. “When you have a project that is already
operating and needs to be refinanced, that’s when the bonds
become an interesting option.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sean B. Pasternak  in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
 Frederic Tomesco  in Montreal in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  