-- Syria’s Assad Says Peace Talks Shouldn’t Focus on Settlements
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 2010-12-09T16:18:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/syria-s-assad-meets-sarkozy-to-discuss-middle-east-peace-talks.html
Syrian President  Bashar al-Assad  said
peace talks between Israel and the Palestinians shouldn’t focus
on the settlements issue, echoing the U.S. position, while
adding that Israel wasn’t a “partner for peace.”  Assad, who met with French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  to
discuss the stalled Middle East peace process as well as Iraq
and Lebanon, made his comments to reporters in Paris today.  “We are against putting settlements at the center of peace
talks,” Assad said. “If we want to talk about peace, we have
to talk about legal rights, about territorial restitution and
not talk about the settlements.”  Direct talks between Israel and the Palestinians collapsed
over Israel’s refusal to freeze settlement construction, which
Palestinians say must be frozen before negotiations can resume.
 Philip J. Crowley , the U.S. State Department spokesman, said
today the U.S. had recognized that persuading Israel to halt
Jewish settlements on disputed territory of the West Bank had
become “an end in itself rather than a means to an end.”  Sarkozy and Assad discussed tensions in Lebanon that have
risen over a United Nations probe into the 2005 assassination of
former premier  Rafiq Hariri , amid the possibility that members
of Lebanon’s Shiite Muslim Hezbollah group may be indicted. The
movement, backed by Syria, is a partner in Lebanese Prime
Minister  Saad Hariri ’s national unity government.  “No one wants a confrontation among the Lebanese people,”
Assad said. “No one wants civil strife.”  ‘Domestic Questions’  Assad said he “did not want to intrude with domestic
questions of Lebanon” and declined to make further comments.  Jacques Chirac , Sarkozy’s predecessor, cut diplomatic ties
with Syria after the Hariri assassination. Syria was implicated
by an initial UN probe, a charge the country denies.  French-Syrian relations have improved under Sarkozy, who
visited Damascus in 2008 and 2009. Syria signed a series of
agreements with France in February.  France Telecom SA  is one of
five companies that Syria picked last month as a potential buyer
of a third mobile phone license.  France, which administered Syria under a League of Nations
mandate after World War I, wants to be the top investor in Syria
and is ready to participate in large projects in the Arab
country,  Eric Chevallier , the French ambassador to the Middle
East nation, told the Syrian news agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Helene Fouquet  in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;
 Massoud A. Derhally  in Beirut, Lebanon at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net 
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net  