-- U.A.E., Qatar May Allow Short-Selling for MSCI Upgrade, Revival of Volumes
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2010-12-09T12:43:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/u-a-e-qatar-may-allow-short-selling-for-msci-upgrade-revival-of-volumes.html
The United Arab Emirates and Qatar
may become the first Persian Gulf countries to allow short-
selling as regulators seek to revive trading volumes and secure
 MSCI Inc. ’s  Emerging Markets status.   The implementation of short-selling is “in line with the
efforts to upgrade the U.A.E. markets,” the country’s regulator
said in an e-mailed response to questions. Qatar’s exchange has
also signaled it will introduce short-selling and derivatives
trading, in addition to raising the percentage of shares
foreigners can own in a company to 49 percent from 25 percent.  “As these markets join the MSCI EM, more attention will be
focused on them,” volumes will probably rise and the market
will likely become more efficient, said  Philippe Langham , who
runs the $660 million Royal Bank of Canada Emerging Markets Fund
in London. Langham doesn’t hold investments in the U.A.E. or
Qatar and would consider buying stocks after an upgrade. “We
would spend more time looking for attractive opportunities in
any markets that look set for promotion.”  Gulf markets have struggled to revive trading volumes after
the world’s worst recession since the Great Depression and a
collapse in property prices in the region’s financial
bellwether, Dubai. At the same time, inflows into emerging-
market stock funds have surpassed $84.3 billion so far in 2010,
putting them on course for a record year, according to Boston-
based EPFR Global.  Short sellers borrow and sell an asset, hoping to profit by
buying it back later for less.  ‘Mitigating Risk’  MSCI classifies six of the  Gulf’s seven bourses , including
those in the U.A.E. and Qatar, as  frontier markets , a
designation that typically applies to economies and financial
markets that are less developed than emerging markets. Saudi
Arabia’s market is not categorized. MSCI indexes are tracked by
investors with an estimated $5.2 trillion in assets, according
to a May 26 report by Shinhan Investment Corp.  The index provider this June will revalue its assessment by
examining, among others, economic development, trading volumes
and market accessibility. MSCI this year cited the U.A.E. and
Qatar’s dual account structures - segregated custody and trading
accounts - as one of the reasons for their frontier market
status and kept the countries under review for reclassification.
MSCI declined to comment when contacted by Bloomberg.  “International investors with exposure to the region want
to have the derivatives that will allow them to mitigate risk,”
said Peter Gotke, vice president of depository receipts at Bank
of New York Mellon Corp. “In the absence of derivatives, the
introduction of short-selling would be welcomed by investors,
and could be one way of arming themselves against that perceived
risk or illiquidity.”  FTSE Ranking  FTSE Group became the first to categorize the U.A.E. as a
secondary emerging market in September, helping attract part of
the $3 trillion of funds that track the index compiler’s
benchmarks. Shares of 21 companies including  Emaar Properties
PJSC  were added to the FTSE’s Global Equity Index after the
close on Sept. 17. FTSE classifies Qatar as a frontier market.  The U.A.E. indices will remain a secondary emerging market
at FTSE for at least another year, according to  Jonathan Cooper ,
FTSE’s managing director for the Middle East and Africa. “There
are still challenges that need to be overcome and the U.A.E.
will need some more time,” he said.  The volume of shares  traded in Dubai  and  Abu Dhabi  this
year is less than half of what it was in 2009. It’s down 43
percent in  Qatar  and  Saudi Arabia .  Abu Dhabi-based Union
National Bank PJSC  was dropped from the MSCI Global Standard
Indices after it failed to meet liquidity requirements, the
index provider said on Dec. 6.  UNB’s Exclusion  “UNB is the fourth-largest bank in Abu Dhabi” and its
deletion highlights the lack of volumes in U.A.E. markets, said
 Tarik El Mejjad,  a London-based analyst at Nomura International
Plc. “The low liquidity levels do not justify inclusion in the
MSCI emerging markets index next year.”  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  has gained 13 percent so
far this year, extending last year’s 75 percent rally, the
biggest since data began in 1988. The  MSCI Frontier Markets
Index  has increased 16 percent after rising 7 percent in 2009.
 Dubai’s benchmark index  has lost 6.1 percent this year, even
after rallying 16 percent in the second half. Abu Dhabi’s
measure is up 0.7 percent and Qatar’s 26 percent.  Default Position  The U.A.E. regulator also expects to introduce Delivery
Versus Payment and security lending and borrowing, both MSCI
criteria, according to the Securities and Commodities Authority
statement.  Essa Kazim,  chief executive officer of the  Dubai
Financial Market PJSC,  said in September that DvP will be
implemented by the end of the year.  DvP is a securities industry procedure in which payment for
a security must be made when the security is delivered. Usually,
the payment is made to a bank, which pays for the security.  “Although funds are not required to invest into every part
of their benchmark, the default position is often to do so,”
said  Paul Cooper , Dubai-based managing director at Sarasin-Alpen
& Partners Ltd., which oversees more than $500 million in the
Middle East. “Promotion to the MSCI index would therefore
certainly yield additional demand for local equities and given
the substantial amount of money benchmarked to the MSCI index
the impact would be significant.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zahra Hankir  in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler in Dubai at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  