-- U.K. Jockey Club Chief Calls for Tote Independence, Opposes Bookie's Sale
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2010-12-10T00:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/u-k-jockey-club-chief-calls-for-tote-independence-opposes-bookie-s-sale.html
The group chief executive of the
 Jockey Club , which owns and operates 14 racecourses in the U.K.,
called for the state-controlled  Tote  betting business to remain
independent instead of being sold as planned.  The Tote’s profit -- currently about 21 million pounds ($33
million) a year according to the Jockey Club -- goes back into
racing, and the racecourse body doesn’t want the sport to lose
that income. A U.K. government deadline for bids to buy the
Tote, the country’s fourth-largest bookmaker, expires today.  The business could be sold for about 250 million pounds,
Sky News said this week, adding that billionaire property
investors  David and Simon Reuben  may bid. British Airways Plc
Chairman  Martin Broughton , who oversaw the sale of Liverpool
Football Club in October, is leading a group bidding for the
bookmaker, the Financial Times reported yesterday.  “We can’t really see a solution that would be better than
leaving the Tote independent,”  Simon Bazalgette , group chief
executive at the Jockey Club, said in an interview yesterday.  Bookmakers Betfred Ltd. and Gala Coral Group Ltd., and
football pool operator Sportech Plc, are among potential
bidders, according to U.K. media.  “There is value in leaving it independent, because it
protects not only racing revenues, but it protects on-shore tax
revenues and employment,” Bazalgette said. “The risk is if a
third party comes in, they could take parts of the business
offshore, which would deprive the government of tax -- as a lot
of bookmakers have done.”  Budget Squeeze  The U.K. government is trying to sell the Tote as it goes
through its biggest budget squeeze since World War II after the
longest recession on record.  “The Government is committed to resolving the longstanding
question of the future of the Tote, and will explore all options
for how to do this in a way that secures value for the taxpayer
and which recognizes the support the Tote currently provides to
the racing industry,” the  Department for Culture, Media and
Sport  said in an e-mailed response to questions about the Jockey
Club plea.  The Tote, or Horserace Totalisator Board, was set up by an
Act of Parliament in 1928. It employs more than 3,500 people in
500 shops in the U.K. The company has a monopoly on pool betting
on racing, a form of gambling where the money wagered is
combined and, after a deduction for costs, is divided up among
winning bettors.  Selling the Tote to a third party would have a negative
impact on prize money in horseracing, Bazalgette said.  “We think that’s a risk not worth taking,” he said.  ‘Not a Good Trade’  Racing would get about 50 percent of the proceeds of a
sale, he added. That money may have to be put into a non-
commercial entity such as an education trust in order to avoid
“state aid issues,” he said.  “Trading a commercial revenue stream for money that goes
into a lump sum that goes into non-commercial things is not a
good trade,” he said.  Founded in 1750, the Jockey Club previously regulated the
sport of horse racing. Its businesses include the Cheltenham,
Aintree, Epsom and Newmarket racecourses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  at the London sports desk on   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  