-- Banks in Britain Must Pay Higher Tax on Balance Sheets Than First Proposed
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2010-12-09T16:08:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/u-k-will-tax-banks-at-0-05-of-balance-sheets-next-year-rising-to-0-075-.html
The U.K. government will tax banks’
 balance sheets  at a higher rate than first proposed, raising
almost 9 billion pounds ($14 billion) over the next four years.  Starting Jan. 1, the government will charge 0.05 percent
instead of the 0.04 percent announced in June, the Treasury said
in a statement in London today. The rate will rise to 0.075
percent from 2012 rather than 0.07 percent.  The rate is being increased so that the Treasury can secure
its revenue target of 2.5 billion pounds a year to help Prime
Minister  David Cameron  narrow the record budget deficit. The tax
will apply to banks with revenue of more than 20 billion pounds.  The levy seeks to ensure banks “make a fair contribution
in respect of the potential risks they pose to the U.K.
financial system and wider economy,”  Mark Hoban , Treasury
minister, said in the statement. It also aims to “encourage the
banks to make greater use of more stable sources of funding,
such as long-term debt and equity, working with the grain of our
wider reform program.”  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  vowed in October
to “extract the maximum sustainable” revenue from financial-
services firms as he seeks to eliminate a deficit forecast to
reach 10 percent of  gross domestic product  in the fiscal year
through March. The levy will affect the global businesses of
U.K. banks and the British-based units of foreign banks.  Multiple Charging  The levy will cost  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,
Britain’s biggest government-owned bank, an estimated 315
million pounds in 2011 and 473 million pounds in 2012, a
spokesman for the bank said. A spokeswoman for Lloyds Banking
Group Plc declined to comment.  The  British Bankers’ Association  said it was “very
concerned” about the effect of the tax on Britain’s
international competitiveness.  “We believe that urgent steps are required to prevent the
multiple charging of bank levies on multinational banks,” the
London-based lobbying group said in an e-mailed statement.
“Failure to act swiftly would further damage the reputation of
the U.K. as a global financial center.”  The higher rate will raise an extra 400 million pounds for
the Treasury over four years. Certain deposits won’t be taxed,
while others will be taxed at half of the published rate.  “The banks’ expectations on the levy have been quite well
managed following the initial shock in June when the bank levy
was unveiled so, although no one will be pleased to see a
higher-than-expected levy, it should not be too much of a
surprise,” Tom Aston, financial-services tax partner at
accountancy firm KPMG LLP in London, said in an e-mailed
statement.  “The levy is designed to reduce the levels of risk banks
take and over time it may result in a behavioral change but it
is unlikely to have a large effect in the short term as it can
take some time to reshape a balance sheet,” Aston said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gonzalo Vina  in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  