-- U.S. Closing Columbia-Snake River System to Barges, May Curb Wheat Exports
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2010-12-09T21:43:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/u-s-closing-columbia-river-to-barges-may-affect-wheat-exports.html
Shipping on the Columbia-Snake River
System, a major gateway to the Pacific Ocean for U.S. wheat and
barley exports, will be halted until March as the Army Corps of
Engineers replaces locks and dams built as long ago as 1957.  Barge traffic will be “effectively” stopped along a 365-
mile (587-kilometer) stretch from tomorrow until March 18 as
lock gates are replaced at the  John Day , The Dalles and Lower
Monumental dams, Army Corps spokesman Scott Clemans said. Five
other dams will be repaired during the period, he said.  Traffic through the river-locking system is slowest during
the winter, with five to 10 barges a day, Clemans said. Barges
primarily carry grains, fuel and garbage. The 14-week halt is
unusual because shipping is normally closed for only two weeks a
year for routine maintenance, he said. The U.S. is the world’s
largest  wheat exporter .  “We completely understand the impact this outage has on
our navigation stakeholders, but if we do not replace these
gates, these facilities eventually become unsafe to use,”
Clemans said yesterday by telephone from Portland, Oregon. “The
alternative to this planned, coordinated outage would be an
unplanned emergency outage that might shut down the navigation
locks and entire transportation system for maybe a year or
more.”  The oldest of the dams, The Dalles, was built in 1957 and
will be replaced with a new gate that weighs 1.5 million pounds
(680 metric tons), Clemans said.  Rail, Trucks  The Pacific Northwest was second to the Gulf of Mexico for
wheat exports last year, said Steve Mercer, a spokesman for U.S.
Wheat Associates, an Arlington, Virginia-based trade group. The
northwest ports are supplied by the river system, as well as by
trains and trucks, he said.  Many importers have accelerated wheat purchases before the
river closure to meet needs over the next three months, and
others may rely on alternate transportation, Mercer said. Most
northwest wheat exports go to Asia, Central America and South
America, he said.  “The closure certainly may have an impact on getting wheat
from point A to point B, but a lot of customers have bought
ahead, and there are other ways to get it there other than
barges,” he said.  The U.S. has exported 7.3 million tons of wheat out of
Pacific Northwest ports in the marketing year that began June 1,
Mercer said. Purchases have been ahead of last year’s pace as
customers boosted buying before the river was closed, and as
Russia’s export ban increased demand for U.S. supplies, he said.
Russia, once the world’s third-largest exporter, has halted
shipments through July 1 after drought this year ruined crops.  Global Demand  The U.S. may not have the logistical capacity to meet
rising global demand, said  Abdolreza Abbassian , an economist at
the United Nations Food & Agriculture Organization. Farmers
around the world need to expand wheat harvests by 3.5 percent
and corn by 6 percent in the 2011-2012 season to rebuild grain
stockpiles eroded by adverse weather, Abbassian said from Rome.  Wheat prices have jumped 46 percent this year, touching a
23-month high in August. Wheat futures for March delivery rose
4.5 cents, or 0.6 percent, to close at $7.885 a bushel today on
the Chicago Board of Trade.  Last year, the U.S. shipped 10.4 million tons of wheat
through the Pacific Northwest, about 40 percent of total
exports, Mercer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  