-- U.S. Shifts $1.2 Billion of Ohio, Wisconsin Rail Funds
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2010-12-09T21:54:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/u-s-to-take-1-2-billion-in-high-speed-rail-funds-from-ohio-wisconsin.html
U.S. Transportation Secretary  Ray LaHood  said $1.2 billion in high-speed rail funds originally
designated for Wisconsin and Ohio will be redirected to states
“eager” to develop faster-rail corridors.  California and Florida will be the top recipients of the
money, receiving as much as $624 million and $342.3 million
respectively, the Transportation Department said in a  statement 
today. States are to receive $8 billion in rail money as part of
the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act.  “High-speed rail will modernize America’s valuable
transportation network, while invigorating the manufacturing
sector and putting people back to work in good-paying jobs,”
LaHood said in the statement. “I am pleased that so many other
states are enthusiastic about the additional support.”  Wisconsin and Ohio elected Republican governors in November
who campaigned against the rail projects. Wisconsin Governor-
elect  Scott Walker  said he’d refuse the $810 million designated
for connecting Milwaukee and Madison. Ohio’s  John Kasich  has
said the planned Cleveland-Columbus-Cincinnati train would be
too expensive to operate.  California’s Republican governor,  Arnold Schwarzenegger ,
said the additional funds would bring federal investment in the
planned San Diego-to-San Francisco network to $3.2 billion.
Alstom SA, Siemens AG, East Japan Railway Co., and China South
Locomotive & Rolling Stock Corp. are among companies seeking to
win contracts on U.S. rail projects.  “California is leading the nation in bringing true high-
speed rail to the U.S., and this award is another sign we are on
the right track,” Schwarzenegger said in an e-mailed statement.  The decision leaves holes in the planned network of high-
speed trains linking the Ohio cities and Minneapolis to Chicago,
spurred by “anti-rail” governors, said Dan Johnson-Weinberger,
a spokesman for the Midwest High Speed Rail Association.  “High-speed rail money is not a slush fund for governors
to use at their pleasure,” Johnson-Weinberger said. “It’s a
terrible day for the Midwest economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Plungis  in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernie Kohn at 
 Bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 