-- U.S. May Have `Problem' Meeting Surging Wheat Demand, FAO's Abbassian Says
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2010-12-09T07:29:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/u-s-may-have-problem-meeting-surging-global-demand-for-wheat-un-says.html
The U.S., the world’s largest wheat
shipper, may not have the logistical capacity to meet rising
global demand after rains cut the quality of the harvest in
Canada and Australia, the United Nations said.  As much as 8 million metric tons of Australia’s wheat
harvest may be downgraded because of excessive rains and
Canada’s output suffered from wet weather, pushing importers to
seek alternative suppliers, said Abdolreza Abbassian, an
economist at the UN Food & Agriculture Organization, citing
government estimates.  “Right now, the only country that would have such supply
to compensate for the downgrade of Australia and also Canada
would be the U.S.,” Abbassian said in an interview. “The
problem is that the capacity in the U.S. for terminals to absorb
enough milling wheat for shipment, it’s just not there.”  Increased demand from the U.S. may lead to supply
bottlenecks, delaying deliveries and intensifying competition
among importers, said Park Yang Jin, business manager at Seoul-
based Daehan Flour Mills Co., South Korea’s largest milling
wheat importer. This would help sustain a rally in Chicago
futures, he said. The U.S. accounts for 27 percent of  global
wheat trade .  Tight Supply  Futures jumped about 64 percent since June 30, surging to a
two-year high of $8.68 a bushel in August, after the worst
drought in at least half a century in Russia, the world’s third-
biggest grower last year. The March-delivery contract traded at
$7.88 a bushel, up 0.5 percent at 3:21 p.m. Singapore time.  The premium paid in Portland by importers to avoid delays
in shipment has risen as competition among importers of U.S.
wheat intensified, Park said, without elaborating.  “On balance, I do see some reaction from the market this
week because of the downgrading” of wheat quality in Australia
and Canada, Abbassian said. “Prices could settle a bit lower as
we go on, but could remain high in relative terms.”  As of Nov. 25, U.S. exporters have agreed to sell 23.2
million tons of wheat in the marketing year that began June 1,
up from 14.8 million tons a year ago, according to data on the
U.S. Department of Agriculture  website . The sales contracts
include the 14.5 million tons that has already been shipped,
according to the data. The nation is forecast by the USDA to
ship 34 million tons this season.  Import Demand  Import demand for milling wheat in the second half of the
2010-2011 season may be smaller than the first half, because
buyers have already contracted most of their requirements,
Abbassian said by phone from Rome.  Wheat exports from Australia may be 16 million tons,
compared with an earlier estimate of 18.4 million tons, the
Australian Bureau of Agricultural & Resource Economics &
Sciences said Dec. 7. Rainfall delayed harvesting and reduced
the crop’s quality. Australia is forecast to be the world’s
fourth-largest shipper this year, according to the USDA.  The harvest in Canada, forecast to be the third-largest
shipper, fell 14 percent from a year earlier to 23.2 million
tons after wet weather in the growing season and early frost on
the prairies curbed yields, Statistics Canada said Dec. 3.  The estimate was 4.3 percent higher than the agency’s
September forecast of 22.2 million tons.  ‘Alarming Dryness’  Farmers around the world need to expand harvests of wheat
by 3.5 percent and corn by 6 percent in the 2011-2012 season to
rebuild stockpiles and meet rising demand, Abbassian said.  “And yet we are seeing signs of rather alarming dryness in
a number of Middle Eastern countries, especially major producers
such as Iran, Iraq and Syria, and then add to that Russia,”
said Abbassian. “This could already give us some sign that
perhaps next year we’re not going to get a 3.5 percent”
increase in wheat production.  Dry weather in Russia may keep the country out of the
export market for another year, and it may rely on Kazakhstan
and Ukraine to meet a domestic grain shortfall, he said.  Kazakhstan and Ukraine will probably send most exports to
Russia, Abbassian said. “That could result in again less supply
entering the world market and put more strain on supplies of
other exporters.”  Still, he said weather conditions may improve next season,
allowing the U.S., European Union, Canada and other big
producers to boost harvests to make up for losses in other parts
of the world.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Luzi Ann Javier  in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  