-- U.S. House Approves Bill to Grant Legal Status to Some Illegal Immigrants
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2010-12-09T05:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/u-s-house-passes-measure-to-aid-youthful-illegal-immigrants.html
The U.S. House passed a measure that
would grant legal status to some younger illegal immigrants, as
a Senate vote loomed today that is likely to block the bill in
Congress’s lame-duck session.  The House’s 216-198 vote last night was at least a
temporary win for advocates who have pushed for a decade for the
immigration-law change. Overall, prospects for the measure and
broader immigration overhaul will dim once Republicans take
control of the House and gain five more Senate seats in the
Congress that convenes in early January.  In today’s Senate vote, the measure will need at least 60
votes to advance in the chamber, where Democrats control 58
votes. Senator  Ben Nelson , a Nebraska Democrat, has said he
would vote with Republicans to block the measure, and a handful
of other Democrats may join him.  Senate Republicans said last week they would block this
bill and others in the lame-duck session until the Senate
extends Bush-era tax cuts due to expire and passes a budget for
the fiscal year that began Oct. 1. Also, few Republicans in the
chamber have indicated support for the immigration measure.  The immigration legislation, called the DREAM Act, would
allow people who came to the U.S. illegally before age 16 and
remain for at least five years to gain legal residency after
going to college or serving in the military. It is co-sponsored
by Representative  Howard Berman , a California Democrat, and
Representative  Lincoln Diaz-Balart , a Florida Republican.  Economic Boost  Supporters yesterday touted the measure as a narrowly
tailored adjustment in immigration law that will help boost the
U.S. economy by unleashing some educated, ambitious young
Americans into the workforce.  House Judiciary Committee Chairman  John Conyers , a Michigan
Democrat, said it is geared toward innocent youth who were
brought to this country by parents or guardians who made the
decision to enter illegally.  “These are undocumented kids,” Conyers said during House
debate. “They didn’t commit a criminal act. They thought they
were born here to begin with.”  Opponents said the measure provides “amnesty” for illegal
immigrants, risks creating a pool of foreign workers who take
jobs from Americans, and doesn’t adequately guard against fraud
and abuse of its provisions.  ‘A Nightmare’  “This DREAM Act is a nightmare for the American people,”
said Representative  Lamar Smith  of Texas, the top Republican on
the Judiciary panel. “It insults American workers and the
American taxpayer and anyone who believes in the rule of law.”  The legislation was proposed in the Senate by Democrat
 Dick Durbin  of Illinois and Republican  Richard Lugar  of
Indiana.  Similar legislation failed in the chamber 2007, though it
was supported by 12 Republican senators, including  Orrin Hatch 
of Utah and  Sam Brownback  of Kansas. Most Republicans have since
opposed liberalizing immigration law amid a voter backlash
against illegal immigrants and security lapses on the U.S.-
Mexico border.  The Obama administration stepped up lobbying for the
legislation, with Education Secretary  Arne Duncan , Defense
Secretary  Robert Gates  and Homeland Security Secretary
 Janet Napolitano  calling lawmakers to urge support.  At a news conference yesterday, Napolitano said the
administration has boosted resources to secure the border and
deported a record 200,000 criminal aliens last year.  ‘Focus on Them’  “We need to focus on them, not on young people,” she
said.  The immigration debate has been shunted to the background
since Obama took office in January 2009, though he had said a
policy overhaul was a priority, including creating a pathway to
citizenship for some of the 11 million undocumented workers. The
issue was set aside as a drive to revise the health-care system
took precedence and dragged on longer than expected.  The only significant immigration legislation to clear
Congress in the past two years was a $600 million border
security law Obama signed in August. It included funding to hire
1,500 Border Patrol, Customs and other agents along the border
with Mexico.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laura Litvan  in Washington at   or
 llitvan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  