-- U.S. Wholesale Inventories Rose 1.9% in October
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2010-12-09T15:42:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/u-s-wholesale-inventories-rose-1-9-in-october-more-than-double-forecast.html
Inventories at U.S. wholesalers rose
more than twice as much as forecast in October as companies
stocked up to meet the biggest sales gain in seven months.  The 1.9 percent increase in  inventories  followed a revised
2.1 percent rise in September that was higher than initially
estimated, Commerce Department figures showed today in
Washington. The  median  of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
projected a 0.8 percent gain. Sales jumped 2.2 percent in
October, partly reflecting the biggest gain in the value of farm
products since November 2009.  The amount of goods on hand compared with sales in October
held at the highest in almost a year, indicating companies may
be growing confident about the outlook for demand to spur
production. Recent data showed November retail same-store sales
rose more than forecast, signs of momentum in the economy before
the end of the year.  “The inventory cycle is maintaining its solid momentum,”
said  Joshua Shapiro , chief U.S. economist at MFR Inc. in New
York. “With final demand showing more signs of life, it will
build on itself. It means better output but also maybe more
imports.”  Another report today showed the labor market is improving.
Initial claims for unemployment insurance dropped to 421,000
last week from 438,000, the Labor Department said. The four-week
moving average, a less-volatile measure, declined to the lowest
level in more than two years.  Stocks Higher  Stocks gained for a third day and Treasury securities rose
after the reports. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased 0.2
percent to 1,230.97 at 10:38 a.m. in New York. The yield on the
benchmark 10-year note fell to 3.22 percent from 3.27 percent
late yesterday.  The median forecast for wholesale inventories was based on
a survey of 35 economists. Estimates ranged from increases of
0.3 percent to 1.4 percent. The September gain was revised from
a previously reported 1.5 percent increase.  Wholesalers make up about 30 percent of all business
stockpiles.  Factory inventories , which comprise about 38 percent
of the total, rose 0.9 percent in October, the Commerce
Department said Dec. 3. Retail stockpiles, which make up the
rest, will be included in the Dec. 14 business inventories
report.  Today’s report showed wholesalers’ stockpiles of durable
goods, or those meant to last several years, increased 0.9
percent in October, led by furniture, computer equipment,
electrical goods and machinery.  Farm Products  The value of unsold non-durable goods rose 3.2 percent and
sales increased 3.7 percent. Sales of farm products jumped 26
percent in October. Inventories of farm goods rose 21 percent.
The increases may have reflected higher prices of commodities.  At the current sales pace, wholesalers had enough goods on
hand to last 1.18 months in October, matching September as the
highest since November 2009. The inventory-to-sales ratio has
increased since reaching a record low of 1.13 months in April.  The gain in wholesale inventories signals that imports in
October probably also increased. The Commerce Department
tomorrow will release  trade balance  figures. The median forecast
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg is for a $43.9 billion
shortfall, little changed from a month earlier.  Inventory rebuilding, a major driver of the early stages of
the economic recovery, contributed 1.3 percentage points to the
2.5 percent expansion in the third quarter, according to the
Commerce Department’s Nov. 23 figures.  Holiday Sales  Some retailers added more goods to stockpiles in
anticipation spending would be sustained into the holidays.
November comparable-store sales rose 5.3 percent at U.S.
retailers, compared with a 3.5 percent estimate, Retail Metrics
Inc. president  Ken Perkins  said in an interview.  “Our inventories tend to peak around now, too, with all
the season stuff, particularly bigger-ticket electronics items
coming in for Christmas,”  Richard Galanti , chief financial
officer at  Costco Wholesale Corp. , said on a conference call
yesterday to discuss the company’s first-quarter earnings.
“Average inventory per warehouse was up only 1 percent this
year. Inventories are darn near flat on pretty good sales this
past quarter.”  The Issaquah, Washington-based company’s profit climbed to
$312 million, or 71 cents a share, in the quarter ended Nov. 21,
from $266 million, or 60 cents a year earlier.  Big Lots Inc. , a Columbus, Ohio-based closeout retailer,
plans to end the fourth quarter with inventory levels slightly
higher, yet enough to avoid losing potential holiday sales,
according to Chief Executive Officer  Steven Fishman .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  