-- U.S. Stocks Gain as Pimco Raises Forecast for Economy, Jobless Claims Drop
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2010-12-09T22:13:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/u-s-stock-index-futures-rise-as-economic-data-boosts-confidence.html
U.S. stocks rose, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to a two-year high for a second day,
after the world’s largest bond fund manager raised its forecast
for economic growth and jobless claims dropped.  Bank of America Corp.  jumped 5.4 percent, leading gains in
the Dow Jones Industrial Average.  American International Group
Inc.  soared 13 percent after a Treasury official said the
government will dispose of its stake in the insurer “as quickly
as practicable.”  Dean Foods Co.  advanced 13 percent, the most
since 2008, after a person familiar with the matter said the
dairy processor will sell $400 million in debt.  The  S&P 500  climbed 0.4 percent to 1,233 at 4 p.m. in New
York, closing at the highest since 2008. Almost three stocks
rose for every two that fell on U.S. exchanges. The Dow lost
2.42 points, or less than 0.1 percent, to 11,370.06.  “The economy is doing better than many people think,”
said  Michael Strauss , who helps oversee about $27 billion as a
managing director at Commonfund in Wilton, Connecticut. “Our
labor market is improving. That’s one of last areas to improve
after recessions. That’s a great environment for stocks.”  The S&P 500 rose for a third day on investor expectation
that government measures will bolster economic growth. President
 Barack Obama  this week announced an agreement on a two-year
extension of tax cuts, adding to optimism about the Federal
Reserve’s plan to inject money into the economy. The U.S. stock
benchmark gauge is up 11 percent this year.  Jobless Claims  U.S. equity benchmark gauges rose earlier today after the
Labor Department said that the number of workers filing first-
time claims for unemployment insurance payments fell last week,
showing the labor market continues to improve. Applications for
 jobless benefits  decreased to 421,000, less than the 425,000
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Shares extended gains in the final half hour of trading
after  Mohamed El-Erian , the chief executive officer of Pacific
Investment Management Co., said the firm was raising its
forecast for U.S. growth next year as policy makers pump a
“massive amount” of stimulus into the economy. Pimco sees the
economy growing 3 percent to 3.5 percent in the fourth quarter
of next year from the same period of this year. That compares
with its previous estimate for 2 percent to 2.5 percent growth.  Pimco began using the term “new normal” almost two years
ago to describe the changed state of the world economy after the
worst recession since the Great Depression. Under the new
normal, the U.S. is seen as being saddled with sluggish growth
and high unemployment for years as it struggles to overcome the
fallout from the crisis.  ‘Throwing in the Towel’  "Some of the folks who had been bearish are throwing in the
towel here and realizing that they need to get themselves
invested," said Philip Orlando, the New York-based chief equity
market strategist at Federated Investors Inc., which manages
$341.3 billion. “Investors are starting to recognize that the
stimulus measures are generating economic growth.”  Banks had the biggest gain in the S&P 500 among 24
industries, surging 2.5 percent.  Bank of America  soared 5.4 percent to $12.65. JPMorgan
Chase & Co. advanced 1.4 percent to $40.81.  Asset managers advanced after Barclays Plc advised buying
the shares to benefit from an improving equity market.  Janus
Capital Group Inc ., the Denver-based money manager that was
boosted to “overweight” from “underweight,” gained 4.5
percent to $12.31. Legg Mason Inc., which was also raised to
“overweight,” advanced 2.1 percent to $35.92.  BlackRock Inc.  gained 3.5 percent to $179.82. The world’s
largest money manager expects to report “very strong” earnings
for the fourth quarter, Reuters reported, citing Chief Executive
Officer  Laurence D. Fink .  Treasury’s Stake  AIG  rallied 13 percent to $47.78. The U.S. Treasury , which
agreed yesterday to a plan that will give it 92 percent of AIG’s
common stock, said it will sell the stake.  “We’ve made it clear all along that we intend to dispose
of our investments as soon as practicable,”  Tim Massad ,
Treasury’s acting assistant secretary for financial stability,
said today in a Bloomberg Television interview. “Let me say we
haven’t made any decisions about how to sell the shares.”  Dean Foods rose 13 percent to $8.39. The biggest U.S. dairy
processor plans to sell $400 million of eight-year senior notes,
according to a person familiar with the transaction. The company
said proceeds may be used to pay down a portion of its senior
secured credit facility.  Stocks had pared gains after Representative  Peter DeFazio 
of Oregon said that House Democrats approved a resolution to
block a floor debate on the tax agreement between Obama and
congressional Republicans. DeFazio said the vote would give
Democratic leaders license to force the Senate and White House
back to the bargaining table.  Republicans, Democrats  “Increasingly, investors begin to realize that the
Republicans don’t want to increase taxation and the Democrats
don’t want to cut spending,”  Marc Faber , publisher of the
Gloom, Boom & Doom report, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview with Betty Liu. “The deficit will stay above a
trillion dollars as far as the eye can see.”  DuPont Co.  had the second-biggest decline in the Dow,
falling 1.2 percent to $48.32. The third-largest U.S. chemical
maker reiterated its 2010  profit  forecast of $3.10 a share,
missing the average analyst estimate in a Bloomberg survey. Its
projection for 2011 earnings of $3.30 to $3.60 a share compares
with the average analyst estimate for $3.46.  Airgas Inc.  fell 6.3 percent to $61.84. Air Products &
Chemicals Inc. raised its hostile takeover bid for the
industrial-gas distributor to $70 a share and called it the
“best and final.” The new offer is still shy of the $78
desired by Airgas, suggesting “there’s a risk this is the end
game,” said  Laurence Alexander , an analyst at Jefferies Group
Inc.  Nvidia Corp.  slid 1.6 percent to $14.86 after CNET reported
that the maker of graphics chips will be excluded from some of
Apple Inc.’s laptop models. Starting next year, Apple will use
Intel Corp.’s Sandy Bridge chips in its MacBook models, CNET
said on its website, citing unidentified people.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 