-- Lukoil to Sell $1.5 Billion of 2015 Convertible Bonds
-- B y   D e n i s   M a t e r n o v s k y   a n d   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2010-12-09T14:01:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/lukoil-to-sell-1-5-billion-of-2015-convertible-bonds-update1-.html
OAO Lukoil, Russia’s second-biggest
crude producer, plans to sell $1.5 billion of convertible bonds
due in 2015, its first sale of such debt in eight years.  The unsecured bonds will have a coupon of 2.5 percent to 3
percent and will be convertible into Lukoil’s American
depositary receipts listed in London, the Moscow-based company
said in a statement today. The securities are expected to be
priced today, according to the statement.  “The amount looks in line with the additional treasury
stock acquired by Lukoil from ConocoPhillips,”  Artem Konchin ,
an oil and gas analyst at UniCredit SpA in Moscow, said by e-
mail. “Shares are under pressure.”  Lukoil fell as much as 1.8 percent, reversing losses to
trade little changed at 1,781.50 rubles as of 4:59 p.m. in Moscow.
 Dmitry Dolgov , a spokesman for the company, declined to comment
on the reason for the sale.  ConocoPhillips is selling its 20 percent share in Lukoil to
repay debt and buy back shares. The Russian company already
bought $3.44 billion of its own shares in August from the
Houston, Texas-based oil producer. Lukoil, UniCredit AG and
investors led by Lukoil Chief Executive Officer  Vagit Alekperov 
bought $2.38 billion more shares from ConocoPhillips in
September at $56 apiece.  30 Percent Premium  The Russian oil producer has an option to buy 25 million of
its own American depositary receipts from UniCredit AG at no
more than $56 apiece by Sept. 29. The offer is invalid at market
prices below $50.  The conversion price for the bonds is expected to be set at
a premium of 30 percent above the reference price, which is a
weighted average price of an ADR from the start of the sale to
pricing, Lukoil said. Barclays Capital, Citigroup Inc. and
Deutsche Bank AG are organizing the sale.  “They can raise debt at the cheaper rate to refinance more
expensive debt,”  Pavel Sorokin  an oil and gas analyst at Alfa
Bank said by telephone from Moscow today. The company has
sufficient treasury stock for the conversion, he said.  Lukoil’s treasury stock represents 8.1 percent of
outstanding shares,  Andrei Gaidamaka , director of strategic
development told reporters in Moscow. The company a market value
of about $49.5 billion, based on today’s share price.  The oil producer last offered convertible debt to investors
in 2002 when it sold $350 million of 3.5 percent notes due in
November 2007, Bloomberg data show.  Lukoil’s debt is rated Baa2 by Moody’s Investors Service,
its second-lowest investment grade, and one level lower at BBB-
by Standard & Poor’s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Denis Maternovsky  in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  