-- Lula Defends WikiLeaks, Offers Brazil's `Solidarity' With Jailed Founder
-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s   a n d   F a b i o l a   M o u r a
-- 2010-12-09T19:30:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/lula-defends-wikileaks-offers-brazil-s-solidarity-with-jailed-founder.html
Brazilian President Luiz Inacio  Lula da Silva  defended  Julian Assange , founder of the WikiLeaks.org
website that published more than 250,000 of U.S. diplomatic
cables sent to or from embassies around the world.  Lula, a former union leader, said Assange did less harm
than the classified documents’ authors, and offered his
“solidarity” with the jailed Australian national.  “I’m surprised they arrested the man and I didn’t see any
protest,” Lula said at an event today in Brasilia. “The guy
was just posting what he read.”  Details of the cables, published in the media by newspapers
including the New York Times and the U.K.’s  Guardian , included a
directive for U.S. diplomats to gather biometric information and
other details of key United Nations officials and offers to
countries to accept Guantanamo Bay detainees.  Leaked cables from Brazil shed light on U.S. government
attempts to solicit Brazil’s help in isolating Venezuelan
President  Hugo Chavez  and showed U.S. diplomats discussing anti-
American members of the Lula government.  Lula said that WikiLeaks “exposed a diplomacy that seemed
to be untouchable.”  Assange turned himself into U.K. authorities on Dec. 7
after Sweden released an international arrest warrant for him to
face sexual assault charges. The case had previously been
dropped by Swedish prosecutors before the cables were published,
according to media reports.  After Assange’s arrest, cyber attacks crashed the website
of the Swedish prosecution authority and partially disabled the
websites of  MasterCard Inc.  and Visa Europe Ltd., after they
which stopped processing donations to WikiLeaks.  Last week, Lula said President  Barack Obama  should be
“very worried´´ about the release of the cables, as they
undermine global diplomacy. U.S. diplomats need to be more
careful when sending their reports in the future, he said then.  Brazilian diplomats should also be aware of what they
write, Lula said today. “If you don’t have anything to write,
don’t write silliness.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carla Simoes  in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net 
 Fabiola Moura  in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  