-- Mullen Says China's Reluctance to Restrain North Korea Endangering Region
-- B y   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i
-- 2010-12-09T06:35:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/mullen-says-china-s-reluctance-to-restrain-north-korea-endangering-region.html
China’s reluctance to attempt to
persuade North Korea to abandon its aggressive stance in Asia
imperils regional stability, said U.S. Admiral  Mike Mullen ,
chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.  China is “unwilling” to use its influence as the North’s
biggest ally to curtail  Kim Jong Il ’s regime, Mullen told
reporters today in Tokyo, reiterating earlier remarks. North
Korea last month shelled a South Korean island, killing four
people, and  confirmed  it has a uranium-enrichment facility for a
nuclear program that five countries are working to shut down.  North Korea “has been unable” to “recognize the risks
and the costs of miscalculation,” Mullen said. “China must
lead and guide North Korea to a better future. There is too much
at stake for this sort of myopia.”  The U.S. has been closing ranks with Japan and South Korea
as it presses China, North Korea’s main source of trade and aid.
South Korea sent military observers to U.S.-Japan drills this
week, which Mullen praised, adding that the 50-year-old U.S.-
Japan security alliance “must expand.”  “What once was unusual is becoming all too routine,” he
said. “I speak mainly here of North Korean aggression that
threatens all of us, but it applies as well to a wide range of
economic, social and political changes throughout the region. As
threats evolve, so too must we.”  Possible China Visit  Mullen did say he hopes to visit China next year and meet
with  Chen Bingde , chief of staff of the People’s Liberation Army,
to improve military relations between the world’s two biggest
economies.  The U.S., Japan and South Korea have rejected a Chinese
proposal to re-convene six-nation talks that also involve Russia
on North Korea’s nuclear program, saying Kim’s regime hasn’t
lived up to previous agreements. Kim met with Chinese State
Councilor Dai Bingguo in Pyongyang and discussed ways to deepen
ties, the state-run Korean Central News Agency reported today.  Mullen’s stop in Tokyo came after a visit to Seoul
yesterday that was marked by what South Korea said was artillery
shots by North Korea. None of the shells fell across the border
into South Korea, an official at the presidential office said,
declining to be identified because of government policy.  Mullen praised the weeklong U.S.-Japan maneuvers taking
place nearing Okinawa that end tomorrow. More than 34,000
Japanese and 10,000 American troops and 400 planes and 60
warships are taking part.  North Korea criticized the strengthening military ties
between the three countries as “increasing the danger of war
hour by hour” in a Dec. 4 statement via the official Korean
Central News Agency. China has also criticized U.S. military
maneuvers in the region.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yuki Yamaguchi  at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  