-- East Europe's Economic Recovery Reaches Households, Accelerating Growth
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2010-12-09T11:51:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/hungary-revises-economic-growth-higher-on-exports-consumption.html
East Europe’s export-led economic
recovery reached households in the third quarter, boosting
growth in the Czech Republic, Estonia and Hungary as domestic
spending rose following recessions last year.  Gross domestic product rose an annual 1.7 percent in
Hungary, 2.8 percent in the Czech Republic, 5 percent in Estonia
and 0.5 percent in Bulgaria, according to revised reports
published today by the statistics offices of each country.
Poland, the region’s biggest economy, on Nov. 30 said it grew an
annual 4.2 percent in the period.  “There’s now a clear seam of improving domestic spending
in eastern Europe after five quarters of an export-led
recovery,”  Raffaella Tenconi , a London-based economist at Bank
of America Merrill Lynch, said in a phone interview. “We’re
certainly not talking about a boom in any way but a steady
economic recovery.”  Consumption rose across the region, boosting economic
expansion that previously relied mostly on rising export demand
in the European Union. Growth in Germany, the 27-nation bloc’s
largest economy, slowed in the third quarter as the euro region
battles a sovereign debt crisis that started in Greece and
forced Ireland into a bailout last month.  Household Consumption  Hungarian households’ final consumption rose an annual 1.2
percent in the third quarter, rising for the first time since
the third quarter of 2008. Estonia’s rose 1 percent compared
with a 3 percent decline in the previous quarter. Czech
household consumption rose 1.2 percent.  In Estonia, which will adopt the euro next month, shipments
of goods, such as wireless network gear for Stockholm-based
 Ericsson AB , rose an annual 36 percent in the third quarter,
after a 29 percent increase in the previous three months.
Exports rose an annual 15.4 percent in the Czech Republic and
13.9 percent in Hungary.  East Europe’s recovery is at the “sweetest spot of the
business cycle” as rising growth by itself isn’t fuelling
inflation in most countries, allowing central bankers to keep
interest rates low, Tenconi said.  “Overall, the data give evidence of reviving domestic
demand, which indicates that the economy has entered another
phase of the recovery,” said Tomas Vlk, an economist at  KBC
Groep NV ’s Patria Finance unit in Prague, by phone. “The
figures are unlikely to prompt the central bank to lift rates as
inflationary pressures remain low.”  Polish, Hungarian Rates  Hungarian policy makers unexpectedly raised interest rates
last month. Poland, the only country to avoid a recession in the
EU last year, should start raising interest rates within three
months to damp inflation, policy maker  Andrzej Bratkowski  said
yesterday.  “Markets have stopped believing that we’re hawkish,”
Bratkowski said in an interview. To slow lending growth, “we
have to act several months in advance, and even more lead-time
is needed if we want to curb wage increases.”  Hungary’s central bank raised the  benchmark interest rate 
last month to 5.5 percent from a record-low 5.25 percent,
increasing borrowing costs for the first time since 2008. Policy
makers cited the inflationary effects of food prices and
government taxes on selected industries as well as the cabinet’s
fiscal policies, which triggered a two-step downgrade at Moody’s
Investors Service this week to the lowest investment grade.  In the Czech Republic, growth may lose steam on the back of
Prime Minister  Petr Necas ’ plans to halve the fiscal gap in
three years to within the EU’s limit of 3 percent of economic
output, said  Neil Shearing , a London-based analyst at Capital
Economics Ltd.  “That means interest rates are going nowhere for the time
being,” he said in a phone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zoltan Simon  in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  