-- Hunters Paying $150,000 to Kill an Endangered Rhino May Save the Species
-- B y   B r e n d a n   B o r r e l l
-- 2010-12-09T22:05:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/hunters-paying-150-000-to-kill-an-endangered-rhino-may-save-the-species.html
In June 1996 a game rancher named
John Hume paid about $200,000 for three pairs of endangered
black rhinos from the wildlife department of the South African
province of KwaZulu-Natal. Among them was a male who would come
to be called “Number 65,” and whose death would play a central
role in the debate about conservation.  South Africa did not start the auctions because it had a
surplus of the animals. Quite the opposite. Although the black
rhinos had been reproducing, they were still critically
endangered. Only about 1,200 remained within the country’s
borders, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Dec. 13 issue.  But black rhinos are massive animals, and with just under
7 percent of the country set aside in protected areas,
conservationists and wildlife departments had run out of room to
accommodate them.  Hume’s 6,500-hectare ranch,  Mauricedale,  lies in the hot,
scrubby veldt in northeastern South Africa. Hume, 68, made his
fortune in taxis, hotels, and time-shares, and Mauricedale was
his Xanadu, a retirement project of immense proportions. In the
late 1990s he began buying up many of the neighboring farms and
ranches, and his triangular estate would soon be boxed in on all
sides by roads and sugar cane plantations.  Hume also was rapidly becoming the largest private owner of
white rhinos; there are currently 250 split between Mauricedale
and another similar property. He also raises cape buffalo, roan
and sable antelopes, hippos, giraffes, zebras, and ostriches.  Rhino Number 65  When the black rhino bull arrived, Hume’s farm manager -- a
burly Zimbabwean named Geoff York whose typical mode of dress is
army boots and a pair of purple shorts -- tranquilized him,
clipped two notches in his left ear and two in the right, and
gave him a number: 65.  With a horn worn down to 20 inches from rubbing it against
rocks, Number 65 was not a beautiful bull. It wouldn’t take long
for him to cause trouble at Mauricedale. Very soon, Number 65
started fights with a young male, who died in November 2000
following a particularly nasty run-in. He chased the other bulls
off to an area of the farm called Thanda Nani so he could have
the females all to himself. For two years he mingled exclusively
with Hume’s cows, yet they never bore him a calf. He was no
longer able to breed.  “He dominated the farm,” says York. “We knew he was a
problem.”  “Surplus Male Problem”  Hume was not the only one struggling with his black rhino
bulls. As far back as 1992, the African Rhino Specialist Group
of the  International Union for the Conservation of Nature  had
discussed the “surplus male problem,” says the group’s longtime
scientific officer, Richard Emslie. Females can raise only a
single offspring every two to three years, but males can sire
many. As in cattle ranching, population growth rates are highest
when the number of bulls in a herd is limited.  It was beginning to look as if, for the first time since
they were added to Appendix I -- the highest level of protection
under the 1977  Convention on International Trade in Endangered
Species , known as CITES -- a black rhino should be legally
hunted and killed.  More conservationists, such as the World Wildlife Fund, are
embracing the notion that legalized hunting -- and the creation
of a market for the right to shoot and harvest an animal -- may
help endangered species.  The black rhino is a trophy for many hunters, who are
willing to pay hundreds of thousands of dollars to shoot them.
Such men travel to Africa from Russia, Japan, Spain, and Eastern
Europe, but Americans dominate the market.  Hunting Client  Fred Leonard, who once had a Michigan business designing
plastic parts for the auto industry, is a typical client.
Despite two open-heart surgeries, Leonard has made 13 trips to
the continent to bag leopard, lion, elephant, buffalo, and
various antelope. He’s got more than 75 dead animals -- all of
them legal -- displayed in a special room in his house outside
of Grand Rapids, Michigan.  Leonard bemoans the common confusion of hunters with
poachers. The difference, he says, is that hunters care about
the environment -- and the law.  “Most hunters are decent people,” he says.  Hunting and trade of an internationally endangered species
such as the black rhino is governed through CITES. From 1970 to
1992, Africa’s black rhino population plummeted from 65,000 to
fewer than 2,500 as professional poaching gangs sought the
horns, used as decorative dagger handles in the Middle East and
ground down and ingested as a supposed aphrodisiac and stomach
aid in Asia. The species, under a general hunting ban, had
rebounded since, to about 3,610 by December 2003.  Endangered Species Rules  Even if South Africa had a lot of, and maybe too many,
black rhinos in some areas, the country could not act alone.
South Africa’s deputy director of biodiversity compliance at the
Environmental Affairs and Tourism Dept., Sonja Meintjes, would
have to persuade two-thirds of the parties of CITES to vote to
allow a hunt at the next meeting in Bangkok the following year.  Meintjes’ general argument runs counter to everything
conservationists have taught the world about endangered species,
but she and many others believed hunting could reward both
wildlife and investors such as Hume, who were setting aside huge
parcels of land for the animals. Proof that hunting works can be
seen in the success of South Africa’s white rhino populations,
says Emslie.  “They started hunting in 1968 when there were 1,800 in the
country. Now we are looking at 19,400.”  Animal Rights  Still, black rhino hunting is hotly debated. Animal rights
groups, such as the International Fund for Animal Welfare, have
long opposed killing wildlife for any reason. The Endangered
Wildlife Trust, a South African conservation organization, has
also come out against the hunts, although it supports trophy
hunting of more common species, such as leopard.  “Our attitude with the rhino has been to err on the side of
caution until we are sure of the stability of the population
across Africa,” says Tim Snow, manager of the Trust’s wildlife
conflict mitigation program.  As the political and scientific debate developed in the
lead-up to the 2004 CITES meeting, professional hunters began
jockeying for the right to guide the first legal black rhino
hunt in decades. The black rhino’s secretive habits and
aggressive nature make it one of the most dangerous and
difficult big-game animals to kill, and it has long been one of
the “big five” trophy game animals, along with the elephant,
lion, buffalo, and leopard.  Professional Hunter  Among the contestants was Peter Thormahlen, a South African
of German descent, who earned an MBA and a degree in organic
chemistry in the 1990s at the University of the Free State in
Bloemfontein and then abandoned a future in fertilizers for a
life in the bush.  Hume had worked with Thormahlen and picked him to run the
hunt.  “Professional hunters are not the most honest guys in the
world,” Hume says. “Peter has been by far the best we’ve dealt
with.”  In October 2004, when word came back from Thailand that
Meintjes had obtained five tags for older males in South Africa,
Thormahlen went to the U.S., where the hunters and the money
are, to find a client. He soon connected with an American hunter
in the financial services business, who within days wired a
$25,000 deposit on a $150,000 fee for a seven-day hunt. Most of
that would go to Hume.  Following Footprints  On July 21, 2005, the hunter, whom Thormahlen declines to
name, arrived in South Africa with his double-barreled shotgun
in his luggage. Thormahlen’s game scouts and Hume’s trackers had
already been following Number 65’s footprints and scratch marks
for several days. Occasionally they might glimpse his hind end
in the shadows or hear him rustling through the thorn bushes.  At dawn on July 23, Thormahlen was rumbling along in a
beige Land Cruiser with the client in the passenger seat and a
couple of scouts on the roof seats. Just after 11 a.m. they
spotted Number 65 taking a dust bath in a shallow ravine. The
bull had not yet noticed the hunters, which  would have either
sent him running or, more likely, charging.  As the rest of the team stayed by the vehicle, Thormahlen
and his client proceeded on foot. Suddenly the rhino noticed
them and rose from the dirt. The client pulled the trigger, and
the first bullet pierced Number 65’s skull. The rhino, still
standing, turned. A second bullet hit, and the rhino dropped
dead.  “No Joy”  Thormahlen, the client, and a government observer walked
over to the rhino that had caused so much mischief on
Mauricedale. “It was unbelievable,” Thormahlen says. “There was
no joy or stupidity. We stood there and we were overwhelmed by
what we had accomplished.”  That first hunter has gone to great lengths to protect his
privacy: He took no photos of himself with the rhino and
according to Thormahlen had at least the horn, and likely the
head, exported to a second home outside the U.S. under a permit
with a friend’s name on it.  Because the black rhino is also listed under the U.S.
Endangered Species Act, the U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service would
have had to issue an exception for the import of black rhino
body parts, which it has never done.  Louisiana lawyer John Jackson, through his organization
Conservation Force, has been pressing the agency to develop a
trophy-hunting policy compatible with CITES. In November 2009 he
submitted a permit application for another Thormahlen client,
Colorado-based David K. Reinke, who paid $215,000 for his
successful hunt that year, according to the application. The
agency has not responded to the application and declined
requests for comment.  Russian Clients  Since then, Thormahlen has led hunts for one or two black
rhinos each year at Mauricedale and government game reserves in
KwaZulu-Natal. He says one of his clients, Russian petroleum
billionaire Rashid Sardarov, had a gun worth 450,000 euros.
Shooting one black rhino was not enough for him, and he has
since shot two others.  Georgi Brilling, a Russian businessman, was one of
Thormahlen’s most reverent clients. When he shot his black rhino
in 2007, he leaned over it and touched it around the eyes in
awe. Thormahlen tried to take photos of him with his prize, but
Brilling stopped him. A snapshot of the hunter and the hunted --
a fixture on the walls of most outdoorsmen -- suddenly seemed
cheap in the presence of one of the most extraordinary and
endangered of animals.  “I didn’t shoot it for photos,” Brilling said. “I shot it
because it was one of the biggest compliments I could give to
the black rhino.”  Feeding the Klipspringer  Late one May afternoon at his Mauricedale office, Hume
stands in khaki shorts, scooping handfuls of live mealworms and
tossing them to his bird, Princess, a purple-crested lourie. A
tiny klipspringer antelope teeters on hooves atop a polished
wooden boardroom table.  “Hello my baby, hello my baby,” Hume says sweetly as he
tempts the antelope with a wriggler.  Hume grew up fishing and hunting on his parent’s cattle
farm in southeastern Zimbabwe. He left school at 14 and soon had
three farms of his own.  Although he loved farming, at 25 he woke up and said to
himself, “Farming is a mug’s game: Just about every business you
can think of is better at making money.” So he started buying
hotels, then a few taxi companies in the capital of Salisbury,
now Harare. Eventually his 250 cabs were aiming for “a million
kilometers a month.” Hume pursued other businesses in South
Africa and the U.S., all the while dreaming of returning to the
veldt.  Breeding Rare Species  “The idea was just to hang out and go game driving,” he
says. “I don’t even hunt anymore, although I will shoot
something if it’s wounded.”  In 1992 he purchased the first chunk of Mauricedale, and
within a year or two he realized he could make money by breeding
rare species. He began expanding the ranch, restoring land once
cleared for agriculture and stocking it with antelope, Cape
buffalo, and eventually white and black rhino.  Today he says the farm is slightly profitable and certainly
more valuable than when he bought it. It has revenue of
25 million rand ($2.5 million): About 80 percent comes from
selling live animals to fellow farmers and exporters and
20 percent from hunting.  Mauricedale is more than a source of income. It’s become
Hume’s proof of concept that the free market is the best way to
conserve wildlife. Just as he was a force behind legalizing
black rhino hunts, he has now hired a full-time lawyer who works
to legalize international trade in white rhino horn obtained by
tranquilizing the animal.  White Rhino Recovery  Once as endangered as the black rhino, the South African
white rhino was downlisted by CITES to Appendix II in 1994,
meaning it is no longer endangered although it is still under
threat from poaching.  “White rhinos are the most incredible animals on earth,”
Hume says. “I’m desperately sorry for them because they need our
help.”  Since 2002, Hume has been cutting his white rhinos’ horns
every two years like a farmer shearing his sheep. They grow
back. He believes this protects the rhinos from poachers and
eventually will make raising them on private property
economically viable. Indeed, he doesn’t allow hunting of his
white rhinos anymore: They’re too valuable for their horns.  Cobus Raath, a former veterinarian from Kruger National
Park, sometimes helps him tranquilize members of the herd to cut
off their horns with a chain saw. It sounds cruel, but Raath
says it’s just like clipping very large nails.  Horns in Storage  Today, Hume has over 500 kilograms (1,100 pounds) of white
rhino horn individually measured and registered with the
provincial government, implanted with government-issued
microchip IDs, similar to the ones inserted in pets, and housed
in safety deposit boxes at three banks around the country,
awaiting a time when trade would be legal.  The argument against trade in horn has always been that the
legal avenues for horn can never quench the demand from Asia and
may in fact fuel it. “My argument is that’s nonsense,” Hume says
bitterly, “You give the farmer a valuable asset, and he’ll do
the job for you.”  Until recently, horn buyers advertised openly in Game &
Hunt magazine for “tusks and rhino horns” that have been
“legally obtained.” It is legal to trade horn within South
Africa’s borders with appropriate permissions.  Hume followed up on one such offer in July 2006, when he
obtained permits to ship 84 kilograms of horn to a buyer in the
North West province of South Africa. Hume believes the horns
subsequently left the country.  Rhino Horn Trade  He sold the horn for just 8,000 rand ($1,200) per kilogram;
according to a 2008 report by the Congressional Research
Service, horn sells for up to $50,000 per kilogram in Asia. At
the high end, Hume’s current horn stash has a retail value of
about $25 million. That is, if international trade is ever
legalized.  If such a scenario remains unlikely for the white rhino in
the near future, it is inconceivable for the black rhino, owing
to its smaller size, rarity, and reclusive habits. For that
species, says Hume, trophy hunting may be its only salvation.  Before dark, Hume takes his sister out for a game drive.
She climbs into the back of the white truck with his wife, and
he grabs a couple beers for himself and a visitor. He drives out
of the shady shelter of his homestead and slowly passes the
supplemental feeding area where white rhino and their calves
congregate like cattle, munching on alfalfa. It isn’t quite
wild, but it is still wildlife.  Free Market Conservation  Evidence that the free market may be wildlife’s best hope
lies in the different approaches taken over the last decades in
southern and East Africa, and particularly in South Africa and
Kenya.  In Kenya landowners have no right to use wildlife, which is
controlled by the state. That has made wildlife a liability;
anyone who wanted to make money legally from their land cleared
it of native vegetation, chased away the antelope, rhino, and
elephant, and turned to cattle and agriculture.  In the 1960s and 1970s in southern Africa, Namibia, South
Africa and Zimbabwe began managing wildlife populations through
regulations and licensing fees, allowing profits to accrue
directly to landowners.  Fred Nelson, the founder of Maliasili Initiatives in
Tanzania and a member of the IUCN sustainable use specialist
group, says southern Africa has become a model for the rest of
the continent.  Private Preserves  “Although they may not say it publicly, among conservation
organizations that work deeply in Africa, there is little doubt
that hunting can be part of a successful conservation regime,”
he says.  In 2007 a study by Zimbabwean biologist Peter Lindsey in
the journal Biological Conservation showed that nearly
1.4 million square kilometers of land in 23 countries were
preserved for trophy hunting, an area exceeding that encompassed
by national parks or other protected areas.  Lindsey, whose work has been funded by the Safari Club
International, Wildlife Conservation Society, and the World
Wildlife Fund, is not himself a hunter and says that the hunting
industry has failed to own up to problems such as canned lion
hunting, in which lions are sometimes drugged and released from
cages moments before being shot.  Still, removing hunting from the conservation landscape
would be, in his view, “disastrous.”  Kenyan Example  In 1977, Lindsey points out, Kenya banned the use of
wildlife for trophy hunting or ranching. Without the financial
benefits of wildlife trickling down to local communities through
regulated pathways, Lindsey and other conservationists contend,
Kenya has lost between 60 and 70 percent of its large mammals,
largely because of poaching and the conversion of land for
livestock and agriculture.  Kenya once had more than 20,000 black rhinos; the roughly
600 left in Kenya today survive only in protected areas.  Although most conservationists agree with Lindsey’s general
assertion, it’s not clear that game farming can save every
species.  “Even if you produce a tiger in captivity, you have to sell
it at a certain price to make a profit,” says Nelson of
Maliasili Initiatives. Tigers are reared for medicinal purposes
in China, but economic studies have shown the price of raising
the animals on an all-meat diet is so high that poachers will
always be able to undercut it.  Rhino Poachers  Poachers are precisely what Tim Snow of the Endangered
Wildlife Trust fears the most when it comes to rhinos. As of
November, poachers have killed 253 white and 8 black rhinos in
South Africa in 2010, up from 122 in all of 2009, according to
the national parks agency.  “We are at our worst ever for rhino poaching,” he says.
Until Snow sees a more detailed population viability analysis
for all of the African states, he is not willing to support
trophy hunting.  Back in 2004, Chris Weaver of World Wildlife Fund in
Windhoek, Namibia, had concerns about the scientific rigor with
which older males would be selected for hunting, among other
issues. Weaver has spent many years working with indigenous
groups in Namibia to help rebuild and manage wildlife
populations on communal lands and open them to trophy hunting.  Today, for example, Damaraland -- a Bantustan, or black
African homeland in Namibia’s northwest -- boasts the largest
free-ranging population of rhinos in the world. No fences. No
feeding lots. Just black rhino with record-breaking horns.  Canned Hunt  Five years after the killing of Number 65, the program
continues to be debated. One early hunt involved a landowner who
purchased a new male specifically for a hunt, precisely the type
of perverse economic incentive conservationists had warned
about.  Rather than creating sustainable breeding populations,
private ranching could end up creating a canned hunting economy.
South Africa quickly tightened oversight, and permit
applications are now reviewed at a national level and sent to
external scientists.  Thus far, the country has never granted all five permits in
a year, in part because there have not been enough high-rolling
hunters to pay for them.  Every January, at the Dallas Safari Club convention, the
Safari Club International convention in Reno and countless
smaller exhibitions, Thormahlen and other operators meet
prospective clients, show videos of their hunts, and regale them
with tales of the black rhino and the itinerant life of the
professional hunting guide.  Weak Controls  A separate controversy in South Africa, however, has
blurred the line between trophy hunting and the illegal horn
trade. When the black rhino hunts were approved in 2004, World
Wildlife Fund warned that “there are still weaknesses within
South Africa’s internal control of white rhino trophy hunting.”  In 2005 demand for white rhino hunts, which cost about
$50,000, soared. Government officials soon discovered that many
of the horns from white rhinos shot by Vietnamese hunters were
being ground down and sold for purported cancer prevention and
treatment in Vietnam and China, a commercial use prohibited
under CITES.  The South African government responded by limiting each
hunter to one rhino hunt a year. While the episode made for
graphic headlines, even Snow admits that the white rhino
population is secure enough to sustain such behavior, at least
in the short term.  Hume says he’s had three of his own animals poached on
Mauricedale. He was devastated. One of the rhinos had a bullet
in her nose for three days before she slipped and drowned in an
artificial pond. The three poachers went on to Kruger National
Park, were one was shot dead by rangers and the others were
arrested.  Vietnamese Market  Hume sees a direct correlation between the tighter
regulations and a surge in poaching in South Africa, and there
is some support for his view.  A November 2009 report prepared by the International Union
for the Conservation of Nature and the World Wildlife Fund’s
wildlife trade monitoring wing, Traffic, shows that the
Vietnamese legally exported their first 20 rhino horns in 2003
and that number grew to nearly 150 by 2007 -- a majority of the
horns exported that year. Poaching was as low as it has ever
been, but following the more stringent curbs imposed in February
2008 after the practice was exposed, legal Vietnamese hunters
all but vanished, and poached horns appear to have made up for
the difference.  While Hume has no pity for the poachers, he views the
legally hunting Vietnamese as engaging in a legitimate business
transaction.  Pretend Hunters  “Our government forced them to pretend to be trophy
hunters,” he says. “Because if the rhino is alive, you cannot
get an export permit for the horn.”  Even Peter Thormahlen has been prosecuted for leading hunts
feeding the horn trade. In 2006 at the Loskop Dam Nature Game
Reserve, he paid a token fine after his Vietnamese hunter
casually told an official that he did not know how to shoot.  The second time, in Limpopo province in 2008, Thormahlen
was indignant and fought the citation in court with the help of
lawyer Tom Dreyer. The judge dismissed the case, calling it a
technicality that the client had not actually fired the fatal
bullet -- a privilege that may have gone to Thormahlen’s teenage
son.  “We hunted a few,” Thormahlen says, “and the Game
Department was present on nearly all of the hunts.” Although he
defends the practice, he says he stopped guiding the Vietnamese
after the Game Department informed him they were involved in the
horn trade. “I want the rhino to be there 20 years from now and
50 years from now for my son,” he says.  Raising Conservation Funds  The market for hunting black rhino continues to grow, and
with it, rhino populations. In April 2009, inside the crowded
Oryx ballroom of the Windhoek Country Club in Namibia,
Thormahlen gripped a cardstock paddle and glanced at a sea of
khaki and sage. The Namibian government was auctioning off its
first nine black rhino hunts, hoping to add more than $1 million
to its conservation coffers. Thormahlen’s business, however, was
suffering from the financial crisis. He wasn’t sure how much
money he should front on a major hunt.  “It’s the wrong year,” he said, shaking his head.  Thormahlen, exhausted from a leopard hunt the night before,
was seated at the end of a long row of chairs, staring dead
ahead. One hundred people were in the room as the barker, Neil
Engelbrecht, started up from behind the podium.  “The right to hunt one black rhino each year for the next
three years,” he blasted. “What do I say? Where do we start?
500,000. Thank you, sir. You’re a scholar and a gentleman.”
Engelbrecht was starting the bid at 500,000 Namibian dollars
($58,000).  Rhino Hunt Auction  From there the price soared in increments of N$50,000.
Within seconds the price was up to N$1 million, and Engelbrecht
warned, “The first one will be the cheapest. The last one will
be the most expensive.”  At about N$1.3 million many bidders fell out, with the
exception of a woman up front with a broad hat, the
representative of a company based in Lusaka, Zambia. Engelbrecht
shouted: “1.775 for the right to hunt the black rhino. No more!
No more! Sold!”  As Engelbrecht announced the next concession, Thormahlen
kept his poker face. He was not expecting the rhinos to go so
high. It was absurd. It wasn’t worth it. Then, as the price
crossed the threshold of N$1 million, the hunter lifted his own
number, 24, and nodded his head almost imperceptibly. Again and
again, he stood his ground as the price climbed.  “At 1.5 million for the third and final call,” Engelbrecht
shouted. “Sold for 1.5 million to buyer Number 24.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Borrell through Bryant Urstadt at 
 burstadt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bryant Urstadt at 
 burstadt@bloomberg.net  