-- HMV Shares Plunge After Dividend Cut, Saying Weather Hurts Holiday Sales
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2010-12-09T17:14:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/hmv-first-half-loss-widens-on-fewer-sales-in-u-k-ireland.html
HMV Group Plc , the music and DVD
retailer that owns Waterstone’s bookstores, fell the most ever
in London trading after saying holiday sales are being hampered
by severe winter weather and cutting its  dividend  by 50 percent.  Snow and freezing temperatures have “undermined” business
in the last two weeks as Britons have put off shopping trips,
the Maidenhead, England-based company said today in a statement.
HMV also said its first-half loss widened due to weaker demand
in U.K. and Irish stores.  The shares declined 17 percent, the steepest intraday drop
since a May 2002 initial public offering. Analysts at Investec
Securities and Seymour Pierce said full-year profit  estimates 
are likely to be reduced. The earliest widespread snowfall in
the U.K. since 1993 has “dramatically undermined” retail
sales, the  British Retail Consortium  said this week.  “If customers can’t get onto the high street of Britain
it’s going to affect everyone, including ourselves,” HMV Chief
Executive Officer  Simon Fox  said on a call with reporters today.  HMV said it reviewed its dividend policy “in light of the
continuing weak entertainment markets, the uncertain consumer
outlook and the consequent impact on the earnings profile of the
group.” The first-half payout will be reduced to 0.9 pence a
share from 1.8 pence a year earlier.  Woolworths, Zavvi  HMV shares dropped 7.25 pence to 36.5 pence in London, the
lowest closing price since the IPO. The stock has fallen 60
percent this year and trades on a  multiple  of 3.4 times
estimated earnings, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The retailer is adding loyalty cards and diversifying into
live music venues and festivals to boost sales as competition
increases from supermarkets and online retailers.  According to Verdict Research senior retail analyst Matt
Piner, HMV needs to offset declining sales by exploiting its
“strong brand name” in entertainment.  “However, the transition will be an extremely difficult
one and the fate of Woolworths and Zavvi provide an unpleasant
reminder of the inherent difficulties of the entertainment
market,” Piner said in an e-mailed comment.  The 99-year-old  Woolworths Group Plc  and U.K. music chain
Zavvi Group both went into administration in December 2008.  HMV’s net loss for the six months ended Oct. 23 was 31.3
million pounds ($49.6 million), up from 17.8 million pounds a
year earlier.  Revenue  fell 6 percent to 749.5 million pounds,
with sales from HMV U.K. and Ireland retreating 15 percent.  Analyst estimates of 53-week pretax profit are likely to
fall by about 8 percent to 60 million pounds, Investec
Securities analysts said in a note. Seymour Pierce analyst
 Freddie George  cut his estimate to 55 million pounds from 65.8
million pounds, describing the results as “disappointing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Spillane  in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  