-- Venezuelan Corruption Cases in U.S. Spotlight Chavez Officials
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2010-12-09T19:06:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/venezuelan-corruption-cases-in-u-s-courts-put-spotlight-on-chavez-regime.html
Venezuelan corruption cases are
surfacing in U.S. courts with civil and criminal allegations
involving judges, financial regulators and senior military
officers in President  Hugo Chavez ’s government.  Since October, U.S. prosecutors have brought an extortion
case against an official of Venezuela’s  securities regulator , an
arms trafficking case tied to engine shipments for Venezuela’s
air force and a cocaine smuggling case against an accused drug
kingpin who implicated Venezuelan military figures. A civil suit
alleging money laundering by seven top Venezuelan officials is
on appeal after a trial judge dismissed it in August.  “There’s so much corruption that has washed ashore from
Venezuela,” said Joel Hirst, an international affairs fellow at
the Council on Foreign Relations in Washington. “More and more
criminal activity is having its source in Venezuela. It’s
spilling into the public and into the U.S courts because a lot
of Venezuelans have fled to the U.S.”  The cases follow the 2008 conviction of Venezuelan
businessman  Franklin Duran  by a Miami jury for failing to
register as a foreign agent. Duran was arrested in Florida,
where he pressured a money courier to remain silent about a
suitcase seized at a Buenos Aires airport with $800,000 of cash
inside. The Chavez government sent the money to back Argentine
President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s 2007 campaign,
prosecutors said.  Corrupt Businessmen  Venezuelan officials say corrupt businessmen are using U.S.
antagonism toward Venezuela to protect themselves and tarnish
the international reputation of Chavez’s self-described
revolutionary, socialist government.  “Those speculating businessmen should show their faces in
Venezuela and stop running away and accusing our officials in
the United States,” Finance Minister  Jorge Giordani  told
reporters in Caracas on Nov. 3, referring to charges brought
against a securities regulator official, Rafael Ramos de la
Rosa. Ramos was indicted last month for conspiracy to commit
extortion and launder money as the government-appointed receiver
of Caracas brokerage Uno Valores Casa de Bolsa CA.  He was arrested in October after coming to Florida
allegedly to demand $1.5 million from the brokerage’s owner,
Tomas Andres Vasquez Estrella, in exchange for a report that
would clear the firm of wrongdoing.  Noriega’s Prosecutor  The case is being handled by Assistant U.S. Attorney
Richard Gregorie, the prosecutor who in 1992 won the conviction
of deposed Panamanian dictator Manuel Noriega for drug
trafficking and helped try seven men in 2007 on charges of
aiding al-Qaeda by trying to destroy Chicago’s Sears Tower.  “We’re going to fight this,” Ramos’s lawyer, David
Kubilion, told reporters after his client pleaded not guilty in
federal court in Miami on Dec. 3.  In conversations recorded by the U.S.  Federal Bureau of
Investigation , Ramos said he was acting at the behest of  Tomas Sanchez , the head of Venezuela’s securities regulator, according
to the criminal complaint. Sanchez isn’t charged in the case.  Sanchez said today in an  interview  with government-run
newspaper Correo del Orinoco that he traveled to Miami in April
to represent Venezuela in a trial regarding a bank closed in the
1990s and that he didn’t meet with Ramos or Vasquez while there.  The exiled bankers are trying to force him from his post
because he ruined their “illegal million dollar businesses,”
he said.  ‘Systemic Corruption’  “The Ramos case could become very important,” said
University of Miami professor Bruce Bagley, chairman of the
international studies department. “No one is quite certain how
high it will go. If it’s Sanchez, then it means a fairly high
level authority is engaged in systemic corruption.”  Ramos’s prosecution arises amid the seizure of more than 40
Venezuelan brokerages that Chavez accused of committing
“fraud” and helping fuel the country’s 26.9 percent annual
 inflation  rate through currency speculation.  In an Aug. 24 phone call cited in an FBI affidavit, Ramos
refers to the “Taliban” -- radical members of the CNV, the
Venezuelan securities regulator -- who “were putting a lot of
pressure on the owners and presidents of other brokerage firms
for having denounced various members of the Venezuelan
government.”  Taped Meeting  Four days later, during a taped meeting at the Mandarin
Oriental Hotel in Miami Ramos allegedly explained to Vasquez,
who was cooperating with the FBI, that he had no choice but to
participate in the corruption back home.  “You could be a great tango dancer, but if they’re playing
salsa, you can’t do the tango,” Ramos said, according to the
affidavit.  For Venezuelans, whose country was criticized for “money
laundering and judicial corruption” in a February  report  by the
U.S. State Department, the cases in U.S. courts offer a glimpse
of alleged profiteering within their government. From 2005 to
2010, Venezuela slipped to 164th from 130th on the Corruption
Perception Index of Transparency International, the Berlin-based
group that ranks 178 countries based upon the perception of
corruption in the public sector.  “Everyone here has their hand in the cookie jar and the
judicial system belongs to the government,” Manuel Guerra, 60,
an events producer said in an interview in Chacao, a middle
class neighborhood in eastern Caracas. “The country that should
judge us is the U.S. or an impartial representative.”  Alleged Extortion  An appeal is pending on dismissal of another case of
alleged extortion involving a financial institution. Venezuelan
banker Eligio Cedeno claims in his civil lawsuit filed in
Manhattan in November 2009 that seven top Venezuelan officials
laundered money through New York banks, had him jailed for
almost three years after they deemed him a political adversary
and forced him to sell his shares in a bank he controlled.  Citing a lack of jurisdiction, U.S. District Judge  Jed Rakoff  dismissed the suit in August, while calling Cedeno’s
racketeering allegations “perfectly plausible.”  Cedeno, who fled Venezuela after being released from prison
by a judge whom the government subsequently jailed,
“obviously” can hope for a “fair hearing” only in the U.S.,
his lawyer,  Jerome Marcus , said in an interview.  Venezuelan authorities say Cedeno and former banker Tomas
Vasquez, the alleged victim in the Ramos case, are themselves
criminals. Cedeno faces charges of fraudulently obtaining U.S.
currency from the government, according to documents posted on
his own website. Vasquez is charged with diverting foreign
currency funds from his bank to acquire another bank, according
to chief regulator Sanchez.  Drug Lord  Allegations against Chavez officials have also surfaced in
connection with the drug-trafficking case against Walid Makled-
Garcia, designated by the U.S. in 2009 one of the world’s most
powerful drug lords. Makled is accused by a Manhattan grand jury
of operating airstrips in Venezuela that shipped tons of cocaine
into Central America and the U.S.  Since his August arrest in Colombia, Makled has said in
television interviews that he has documentation showing he
amassed $1.2 billion by paying off Venezuelan generals,
admirals, the head of the country’s narcotics agency and the
brother of the Interior and Justice Minister.  Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos said on Nov. 16 that
Makled should be extradited to Venezuela, not the U.S.
Colombia’s Supreme Court will decide where the alleged drug
kingpin goes within 18 months, said Adam Isaacson of the policy
group Washington Office on Latin America. The court may rule he
would face too much danger in Venezuela because of his
denunciations of Chavez’s government, Isaacson said.  U.S. Intentions  Makled’s accusations prompted Chavez to say he viewed the
cases as warning signals about U.S. intentions.  “Makled himself said he has all the information the United
States needs to intervene in Venezuela like it intervened in
Panama to get Noriega,” he said on a visit to Cuba on Nov. 7.
“That’s the Venezuelan bourgeoisie’s dream, and the empire is
going about looking for cards to play with.”  Drugs aren’t the only Venezuelan-linked contraband the U.S.
is targeting.  A grand jury in Phoenix indicted Floyd Stilwell and his
Mesa, Arizona-based company, Marsh Aviation Co., on Oct. 12 on
charges of violating the U.S. Arms Export Control Act by selling
T-76 military aircraft engines to the Venezuelan air force in
violation of a U.S. military embargo. Stilwell was paid $1.8
million after making the sale appear as if it were for civilian
engines, prosecutors said. The company’s defense attorney David
Lockhart declined to comment.  Targeting Chavez  Larry Birns , director of the Washington-based Council on
Hemispheric Affairs, a research group, said he thinks the cases
signal that the U.S. government is targeting Chavez through the
courts.  “There’s a huge political commitment to go after
Chavez,” Birns said.  Michael Shifter , president of Inter-American Dialogue, a
Washington-based policy center, said he sees no evidence of a
litigation strategy against the Venezuelan leader.  William Carter , a spokesman for the FBI, said there’s “no specific
focus on Venezuela.”  More likely, Venezuelan-linked crime and the country’s
divisive politics are leaking into the U.S. as Venezuelans take
refuge here, said the Council on Foreign Relations’ Hirst.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Glovin  in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
 Charlie Devereux  in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net .
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  