-- Volkswagen Targets 7 Million Vehicle Sales in 2010, Extra Shifts Next Year
-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 2010-12-09T14:38:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/volkswagen-targets-7-million-vehicle-sales-in-2010-plans-to-add-workers.html
Volkswagen AG , Europe’s largest
carmaker, plans on sales rising 11 percent to 7 million vehicles
this year, and will add work shifts at its main plant in
Wolfsburg, Germany, in the first quarter to meet demand.  Volkswagen will increase production from January through
March at the plant, where the Golf compact, Tiguan SUV and
Touran minivan are assembled,  David McAllister , prime minister
of the German state of Lower Saxony, said today at a works
council event. Four shifts will be added in January alone to
meet growing sales of the Golf, he said.  “Volkswagen is booming,” said McAllister, a member of
VW’s supervisory board. The carmaker, which is 20 percent-owned
by Lower Saxony, plans to create more permanent jobs for
temporary workers after offering unlimited contracts to 400
interim staff, McAllister said at the employee gathering at VW’s
headquarters in Wolfsburg.  The manufacturer will invest 51.6 billion euros ($68
billion) in its automotive business through 2015 in an effort to
surpass  Toyota Motor Corp.  as the world’s leading carmaker.
Volkswagen said Dec. 6 that it aims to add 50,000 jobs globally
in the period, with about 10 percent of new positions in
Germany, VW’s second-biggest market after China.  The company hasn’t previously specified a 2010 delivery
forecast beyond saying demand would beat the record 6.29 million
cars, sport-utility vehicles and vans sold last year.  ‘Follow Up’  “Volkswagen is becoming even more international,” Chief
Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn  said in written remarks
distributed to journalists at the conference. “After a
successful year for the VW brand and group, we will and must
follow up on this in 2011. We’re ahead of the field, even now
during the economic recovery.”  The company’s labor leaders are calling on Volkswagen to
raise wages by 6 percent next year for 100,000  workers  at its
seven western German plants and the financial-services division.
VW has countered that it will target pay increases closer to the
2.7 percent raise that engineering employees agreed to last
February, topped up by performance-linked bonuses tied to record
sales in 2010.  The first round of pay talks is scheduled for Jan. 19.
Worker representatives “are expecting a concrete, sensible
offer,” at the start, Works Council Chief Bernd Osterloh said
at today’s conference. “Otherwise, there will be real trouble
in the early weeks next year.”  IG Metall, Germany’s biggest labor union, represents VW
employees in the pay negotiations. It’s legally banned from
calling strikes at the western German factories until Feb. 28,
when a four-week cooling-off period expires.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andreas Cremer in Wolfsburg, Germany, via 
 acremer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 