-- Volvo’s China Strategy Focuses on Geely Chengdu Plant
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2010-12-10T09:12:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/volvo-cars-china-strategy-will-focus-on-chengdu-plant-board-member-says.html
Volvo Cars, the Swedish carmaker
acquired by  Zhejiang Geely Holding Group Co. , is leaning toward
starting production in the Chinese city of Chengdu to boost
sales in the country, according to a Volvo board member.  The board agreed at a meeting in Gothenburg yesterday that
taking over an existing  Geely Automobile Holdings Ltd.  factory
in the southwestern city and converting it to produce Volvo cars
would be the cornerstone of Volvo’s China strategy, said Marko
Peltonen, who represents the IF Metall union on the board. No
decision has been taken, he said.  “To have a Volvo factory in Chengdu is the main track,”
Peltonen said by telephone late yesterday. “It wouldn’t be a
mixed factory, it would only be a Volvo factory.”  Zhejiang Geely bought Volvo from  Ford Motor Co . in August
for about $1.5 billion. Expanding in China is key to Volvo’s
goal of doubling sales to 800,000 cars in 10 years, Chief
Executive Officer  Stefan Jacoby  has said. Jacoby said in October
that Volvo may need as many as three plants in China.  The board yesterday also appointed  Jan Gurander  as chief
financial officer starting latest in April, Volvo said in a
statement today. Gurander is currently CFO at MAN Diesel & Turbo
SE.  Hans Oscarsson  will continue as acting CFO until Gurander
takes over, Volvo said.  Volvo also said Lex Kerssemakers, currently head of Volvo
Cars Overseas Corp., will become head of product strategy and
vehicle line management, a new function. The position will give
him ”a key role in the development of the next generation of
cars from Volvo,” the company said in the statement.  Chengdu Plant  Peltonen said Volvo hasn’t set a timeframe for a decision
on the Chengdu plant. “Decisions also have to be made by local
Chinese governments,” he said, adding that he doesn’t know if
the existing Geely production at the factory would be moved
elsewhere.  Geely plans to produce the Volvo S60 at an existing plant
in Chengdu, China, An Conghui, vice president of Geely
Automobile, the group’s Hong Kong-listed unit, said Aug. 19. In
the future, the company will also build Volvo models at a new
plant in Chengdu, he said. Yuan Xiaoling, a spokesman for
Zhejiang Geely, declined to comment.  “We have a common and undivided focus to create a
sustainable plan for Volvo Cars’ way forward in China,”  Li Shufu , chairman of Volvo and Geely, said in today’s statement.
“This plan will be based on thorough analysis of which models
to build in China and which to import, anticipated volumes and
the local production capacity to deliver these cars.”  Booming Auto Sales  Sales of passenger cars including multipurpose and sport-
utility vehicles in China surged 29 percent in November to 1.34
million, higher than the previous monthly record of 1.32 million
in January, the China Automobile Industry Association said
yesterday. The pace of growth was the fastest since April.  China’s position as the world’s largest auto market, along
with its booming luxury sector, makes it a market carmakers such
as Volvo cannot ignore, said  Ashvin Chotai , a London-based
managing director of Intelligence Automotive Asia, an industry
consultant.  “In Volvo’s case, it is now under Chinese ownership and
there’ll be a special effort to get its operations in terms of
sales and marketing, production operations, product development
activities for the Chinese market going in a very speedy
manner,” Chotai said in a phone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ola Kinnander  in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  