-- Volvo AB Investor Gardell Says Next Chief Needs to Focus on Margins, China
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2010-12-10T09:57:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/volvo-investor-gardell-says-next-chief-must-boost-margins-expand-in-china.html
Volvo AB  Chief Executive Officer
 Leif Johansson ’s successor must focus on raising operating
margins and expanding in faster-growing markets, the company’s
third-largest shareholder said.  The next CEO will have to “continue to ensure that the
margin potential is reached in all the businesses, and to really
establish  Volvo  in Asia, in countries with potential,”  Christer Gardell , whose Violet Partners LP holds 5.3 percent of Volvo’s
voting  rights , said in a phone interview. “China is important.
India is important.”  Johansson said on Dec. 8 that he will step down in the
summer of 2011 after 14 years leading Gothenburg, Sweden-based
Volvo, the world’s second-biggest maker of heavy trucks after
Daimler AG. Volvo’s election committee has started the search
for a successor, a spokesman said yesterday.  Olof Persson , head of the construction-equipment division,
is a “strong” candidate to succeed Johansson, Gardell said.
The business’s third-quarter earnings before interest and taxes
totaled 10.5 percent of sales, beating margins of 6.6 percent at
the truck unit and 3.4 percent at the bus division.  “He’s delivered,” Gardell said in the Dec. 8 interview,
adding that he would support Persson’s appointment. “He’s in a
very good position” to take over as CEO.  Shares Advance  Volvo rose as much as 1.40 kronor, or 1.3 percent, to 110
kronor and was up 0.4 percent to 109 kronor as of 10:51 a.m. in
Stockholm. The  stock  has gained 77 percent this year, valuing
the Swedish company at 230 billion kronor ($33.4 billion).  Volvo aims for the group operating margin to average 7
percent of sales over a business cycle. The third-quarter figure
 amounted  to 7.7 percent, the first time since the second quarter
of 2008 that the margin has exceeded the targeted average. The
company returned to profit in the first three months of 2010
after  five quarters of losses  totaling 16.1 billion kronor.  “Olof is a given internal candidate,” said  Bjorn Enarson ,
an analyst in Stockholm at Ohman Fondkommission. “But I think
they want to do a broad, very thorough search.”  The manufacturer, which doesn’t disclose figures by
country, reported nine-month sales in Asia of 47.7 billion
kronor, a 50 percent increase from a year earlier and accounting
for 26 percent of total revenue from industrial operations. Its
Indian business includes a joint truck- and bus-making venture
with Eicher Motors Ltd.  The Swedish company has boosted construction-equipment
sales in China and with local partner Lingong has grown to
become the country’s fourth-largest provider of wheel loaders
and road-building machinery, according to Volvo’s  estimates . The
UD Trucks unit has a joint venture in China with Dongfeng Motor
Group that sells “a few thousand” vehicles in the country
annually, said  Marten Wikforss , a Volvo spokesman.  “They don’t have an announced plan for how to break into
that market on the truck side,” Ohman Fondkommission’s Enarson
said. “It’s unclear whether they will wait for a law change so
they can buy companies straight up, or if they’re going to do
something else.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ola Kinnander  in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 