-- Wahlberg's Boxer Battles Junkie Brother; Affleck Gets Fired: Rick Warner
-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 2010-12-09T03:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/wahlberg-s-boxer-battles-junkie-brother-affleck-fired-movies.html
Conflict isn’t confined to the ring
in “ The Fighter ,” a gritty film that chronicles Micky Ward’s
improbable rise from journeyman boxer to champion.  Starring  Mark Wahlberg  as Ward and  Christian Bale  as his
half-brother, Dickie Eklund, the movie focuses more on family
feuds than boxing. Ward’s career, which tanks when he’s trained
by his crack-addict brother and managed by his hard-bitten
mother Alice ( Melissa Leo ), only revives after he limits their
control.  Though co-producer Wahlberg spent years trying to get the
film made, it was shot in only 33 days in Lowell, Massachusetts,
the blue-collar town where Ward grew up with his eight siblings.
The quick shooting schedule gives the picture a ragged, real-
time feel.  Wahlberg’s sturdy performance reflects Ward’s dogged
fighting style and his own hard-scrabble background in Boston,
where he had numerous run-ins with the law before straightening
out his life and becoming a successful rapper, model, actor and
producer.  But the two real standouts are Leo and Bale, who took over
as Dickie after  Matt Damon  and  Brad Pitt  ditched the role.  Bale dominates the screen as an ex-boxer who went the
distance with  Sugar Ray Leonard  before his drug habit landed him
in prison. Dickie’s joking, carefree manner masks his bitter
disappointment at not fulfilling his potential and becoming a
roadblock in his brother’s career.  Tough Mom  Leo doesn’t sugarcoat Ward’s mother, who views Micky as the
family’s meal ticket. Alice resents the influence of his new
girlfriend Charlene ( Amy Adams , in a radical departure from her
sweet-girl persona), a no-nonsense barmaid who urges him to
distance himself from his family and hire new management.  Director  David O. Russell  does a workmanlike job with a
script (by Scott Silver, Paul Tamasy and Eric Johnson) that
includes some corny scenes such as the brothers walking down the
streets of Lowell like Pied Pipers, slapping hands with admiring
citizens.  The boxing action is crunchingly realistic and the working-
class Massachusetts accents are plausible. While it lacks the
brutal power of “Raging Bull” or the hokey appeal of the
“Rocky” movies, “The Fighter” is a solid addition to
Hollywood’s boxing tradition.  “The Fighter,” from Paramount Pictures, opens tomorrow in
New York, Boston and Los Angeles. Rating: ***  ‘The Company Men’  Executives with big paychecks and huge houses lose their
jobs in “ The Company Men ,” a depressing drama about the human
cost of corporate bloodletting during the Great Recession.  Ben Affleck ,  Tommy Lee Jones  and  Chris Cooper  play co-
workers at GTX, a Boston shipping company whose owner cuts his
workforce to boost a sagging stock price and make the business
more attractive to potential buyers.  Before the ax drops, sales manager Bobby (Affleck), senior
executive Phil (Cooper) and vice president Gene (Jones) are
living in suburban mansions and enjoying the perks (country
clubs, private jets, Porsches) of corporate success.  After they’re fired, Bobby and Phil struggle to find work
while Gene, who’s financially secure, vents his anger at owner
and best friend James (Craig T. Nelson) for dismantling the
company they built together.  Construction Job  The situation also takes its toll on their families. Bobby
and his wife (Rosemarie DeWitt) sell their house and move in
with his parents, and he ends up working for his hated brother-
in-law ( Kevin Costner ) on a construction crew. Phil grows
despondent and takes out his frustration by throwing rocks at
GTX headquarters. Gene separates from his wife to live with the
sexy company official ( Maria Bello ) who handed him his pink
slip.  Writer/director John Wells, former executive producer of
TV’s “ER” and “The West Wing,” captures the desperation and
anger of workers tossed aside after years of loyal service. He’s
aided by a superb cast, especially Jones as a boss with a
conscience and Costner as an honest working man who lends a hand
to his snobbish brother-in-law despite their fractious
relationship.  Still, I’m not sure if your average moviegoer is going to
shed any tears for these highly paid suits. It might have helped
if Wells had included a secretary or truck driver in his layoff
list.  “The Company Men,” from the Weinstein Co., opens tomorrow
in New York and Los Angeles. Rating: ***  ( Rick Warner  is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Rick Warner  in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 