-- Wall Street Pushing `Cockamamie' Financing Deals, New York's Ravitch Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   Q u i n t
-- 2010-12-09T19:24:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/wall-street-pushing-cockamamie-financing-deals-new-york-s-ravitch-says.html
Wall Street bankers perceive  New
York’s  $9 billion  budget deficit  as an opportunity to propose
financing deals that may worsen the state’s long-term fiscal
condition, Lieutenant Governor  Richard Ravitch  said.  “They are up here peddling the same cockamamie borrowing
schemes that helped get us in trouble,” Ravitch said today at a
conference sponsored by the  Rockefeller Institute of Government
in Albany , the state capital.  About $9.8 billion of the $60.4 billion in state-backed
debt is from bonds sold to finance previous years’ deficits,
according to a report in March by Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli .
New York is the second-largest state borrower after California,
and its debt per person of $2,925 is three times the national
average and second only to New Jersey among the 10 largest
states by population, according to the  report .  Ideas proposed by bankers include the sale and leaseback of
the Empire Plaza, a group of state office buildings across the
street from the Capitol, and borrowing backed by revenue from
the state-owned lottery and parking garages, Ravitch said. A
refinancing of tobacco bonds, which some lawmakers endorsed last
year as a way raise more than $500 million, is another proposal,
he said.  “The state has a lot of ways of borrowing money, and Wall
Street is eager to facilitate that,” Ravitch said.  End of Term  Ravitch, 77, whose term ends Dec. 31, is a former chairman
of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. He helped arrange
compromises by bankers, unions and government officials during
New York City’s financial crisis in the mid-1970s.  In March, Ravitch proposed allowing New York to sell as
much as $6 billion of bonds over three years to close its budget
gap if those sales were accompanied by the creation of a
financial oversight board and other changes to balance spending
and revenue. That plan was opposed by Governor  David Paterson 
and Governor-elect  Andrew Cuomo , both Democrats.  Ravitch said New York and other states need to devote more
effort to solving the fundamental imbalance between spending
plans for services and pensions and available resources. Too
often, he said, they behave as if “the only thing that matters
is that you have enough cash to avert catastrophe.”  The problem with borrowing to raise that cash is “you are
building up liabilities in the future and making it more painful
when the process ultimately comes to an end,” Ravitch said.  Moving Money Around  While bankers have a useful role in the economy, too often
their ideas are merely moving money around and not financing
job-producing activities, he said.  New York’s general-obligation bonds, backed by its full
faith and credit, are rated Aa2 by Moody’s Investors Service and
AA by Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings, all third highest.  Bonds backed by personal income-tax revenue have the top
AAA grade from S&P and AA from Fitch. Debt backed by contracts
that require annual appropriations are rated AA-, or one grade
lower than the general-obligation debt, by S&P and Fitch.  While New York has many ways to raise cash, Ravitch said he
was concerned enough about the safety of state debt that he
personally would buy only bonds backed by revenues such as the
personal income tax, and avoid those backed by annual
appropriations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Quint  in Albany, New York, at 
 mquint@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  