-- Wall Street's Worst at Least Can Do the Math: Jonathan Weil
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2010-12-09T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/wall-street-s-worst-at-least-can-do-the-math-commentary-by-jonathan-weil.html
It’s bad enough that there have been
no criminal convictions of any of the executives who helped
bring the banking system and our economy to its knees. Now the
Justice Department is touting trumped-up numbers as it tries to
show it’s cracking down on financial fraud.  This week U.S. Attorney General  Eric Holder  held a news
conference to praise the results of Operation Broken Trust, 
which he called “a critical step forward in law enforcement’s
work to protect American investors.”  Holder said the sweep by President  Barack Obama ’s  Financial
Fraud Enforcement Task Force  began Aug. 16 and resulted in 231
cases against 343 criminal defendants as of Dec. 1. All told
there were 64 arrests, 158 indictments or complaints, 104
convictions and 87 sentencings, according to the Justice
Department’s tally. Holder also  credited  the operation with 60
civil suits against 189 defendants.  The statistics looked squirrely on their face. Some of
these cases began years ago, long before the multiagency task
force was formed. It’s obvious what the prosecutors did here,
too. First they tracked down every small-fry Ponzi scheme,
affinity fraud and penny-stock pump-and-dump they could find
that had advanced through the courts since mid-August. Then they
totaled them up and called it a sweep, lumping together cases
that had nothing to do with each other.  Just out of curiosity, I asked a Justice Department
spokeswoman, Alisa Finelli, for the names of the cases. She sent
me a 16-page printout of the criminal defendants. (Oddly, she
said the civil defendants’ names weren’t available.) The first
page of the list had 20 names, which I figured was as good a
sample as any to use for picking cases to look up. It soon
became clear that the list wasn’t entirely correct.  Count Early  For instance, the list said a fellow named Lorenzo
Altadonna had been convicted in the Western District of New York
on Oct. 27. Actually, he was sentenced to three years probation
on Aug. 5, court records show. That was 11 days before Operation
Broken Trust began, which means the task force shouldn’t have
counted him in its results, even by its own loopy methodology.
Finelli said Altadonna was included mistakenly.  The first page of the list also showed a Nov. 8 federal
conviction in New Jersey of a man whom I won’t name here. There
was no record for him on Pacer, which is the government’s online
database of federal court proceedings. But I did find an Oct. 13
 article  in the Daily Record of Parsippany, New Jersey, about a
fraud at an insurance agency where a person with the same name
had worked. The article said he had not been charged criminally.
Finelli declined to comment on why he was included in the task
force’s list of defendants.  Justice for All  So of the 20 cases at the top of the government’s defendant
list, two of them didn’t check out. Other defendants included a
swindler named Lee Anglin, who was sentenced on Nov. 16. Court
records show he was arrested in March 2006 and convicted in July
2009. The task force had nothing to do with nabbing him.  Another defendant, Anthony Antonelli, was sentenced Sept.
7. Court records in his case show he struck a plea bargain with
prosecutors in January 2009. The lesson here: Justice delayed is
justice counted.  I spot-checked a few names on the list’s other pages, too.
One was a guy in Illinois named  Kevin Carney , who pleaded guilty
on Aug. 18 in a Cook County circuit court to fraud and theft
charges, according to a press release by the Illinois attorney
general’s office, which prosecuted the case. That was just two
days after Operation Broken Trust’s start date.  On Message  The task force’s executive director,  Robb Adkins , said in
an interview that the point of this week’s announcement was to
increase public awareness about these types of frauds and “send
a message to would-be wrongdoers.” He said “there was a very
large detailed effort to track the numbers,” and that he didn’t
want anyone to think the task force was trying to take credit
for investigations that started before Operation Broken Trust.  When I asked him why the government hadn’t prosecuted any
senior executives from companies at the heart of the financial
crisis, he said: “Where there is wrongdoing we will bring
charges, but beyond that I just can’t comment.”  By all outward appearances, it seems the Justice Department
either doesn’t want to prosecute systemically important frauds,
or doesn’t know how. Or maybe it’s both.  It wasn’t always this way. More than a thousand felony
convictions followed the savings-and-loan scandal of the 1980s
and early 1990s. Some of the biggest kingpins, such as  Charles
Keating  of Lincoln Savings & Loan, went to jail. With this
latest financial crisis, there’s been no such accountability.  Operation Broken Trust may be a fitting name. Unfortunately
it’s for all the wrong reasons. The public already knows not to
trust the government. Flimflam P.R. stunts such as this one at
least offer us a useful reminder of why.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  