-- Wheat Futures Advance as U.S. Exports Gain, Global Inventories May Shrink
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2010-12-09T21:03:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/wheat-futures-advance-as-u-s-exports-gain-global-inventories-may-shrink.html
Wheat futures rose for the first time
in three days on signs that tightening global supplies are
spurring importers to buy more grain from the U.S., the world’s
largest shipper.  U.S. exporters sold 726,510 metric tons in the week ended
Dec. 2, up 3.2 percent from a week earlier, the Department of
Agriculture said. Rains in Australia are delaying the harvest,
and Russia banned exports through July 1 after a severe drought.
Tomorrow, the USDA may cut its forecast for global reserves, a
survey of analysts showed.  “Australia’s having a problem and the world situation
looks like it’s tightening, and as prices start creeping up, the
herd mentality sets in,” said  Jason Britt , the president of
Central States Commodities Inc. in Kansas City, Missouri.
Importers “think they better get things bought before it goes
higher,” he said.  Wheat futures for March delivery rose 4.5 cents, or 0.6
percent, to settle at $7.885 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the
Chicago Board of Trade. Prices dropped 1.1 percent in the
previous two days. The most-active contract has surged 64
percent since the end of June.  Farmers in Australia, currently the fourth-largest
exporter, may leave as much as 3 million tons unharvested after
heavy rains, Perth-based CBH Group, Western Australia’s largest
exporter, said yesterday. The country had its wettest September-
to-November period on record, according to the Bureau of
Meteorology.  ‘Awfully Tight’  “The bottom line is, we’re awfully tight on good-quality
wheat for milling purposes, and it’s going to stay that way for
a while,” said  Jerod Leman , a broker at Wellington Commodities
in Carmel, Indiana.  Earlier, futures dropped as much as 0.5 percent after
Egypt, the world’s biggest importer, bought 240,000 tons from
France and Argentina in a tender, shunning U.S. supplies.  “We have picked up the entire amount of Egypt’s last two
tenders, so this is a disappointment now,” said  Rich Nelson ,
the director of research at Allendale Inc. in McHenry, Illinois.
“What Egypt needs is milling-quality wheat. I’m not sure how
much of that is left in France, but maybe they did feel the
newly harvested crops were coming off OK in Argentina.”  Wheat is the fourth-biggest U.S. crop, valued at $10.6
billion in 2009, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show.  France is the second-largest wheat exporter, followed by
Canada, according to estimates by the International Grains
Council and FranceAgriMer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  