-- Wheat Rises on Speculation Australian Farmers May Abandon Crops After Rain
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2010-12-09T11:26:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/wheat-rises-on-speculation-australian-farmers-may-abandon-crops-after-rain.html
Wheat rose in Chicago for the first
time in three sessions on speculation that Australian farmers
will opt against harvesting crops after rainfall hurt plants in
eastern growing areas.  About 2 million to 3 million metric tons of the grain may
be “abandoned,” CBH Group said yesterday. The exporter is
estimating wheat production at 23 million tons, with up to 11
million downgraded to feed quality instead of milling quality,
said Tom Puddy, head of marketing for CBH’s grain division, in
an interview in Perth. Exports also may decline.  “The harvest is in a very bad situation, and if rain
continues, the volume could very much be reduced,” said
 Jonathan Bouchet , an analyst at OTCex Group in Geneva. “Rising
demand for U.S. milling wheat is expected.”  Wheat for March delivery rose 3.75 cents, or 0.5 percent,
to $7.8775 a bushel at 11:13 a.m. London time on the Chicago
Board of Trade. The grain touched a four-month high of $8.11 on
Dec. 7. Milling wheat for January delivery traded on NYSE Liffe
in Paris climbed 1.3 percent to 241.25 euros ($318.67) a ton.  The U.S., the world’s largest wheat exporter, may lack the
logistical capacity to meet rising global demand after rains cut
the quality of harvests in Canada and Australia, the United
Nations said.  As much as 8 million tons of Australia’s wheat harvest may
be downgraded because of excessive rains, while Canada’s output
suffered from wet weather, pushing importers to seek alternative
suppliers, Abdolreza Abbassian, an economist at the UN Food &
Agriculture Organization, said in an interview, citing
government estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony C. Dreibus  in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 