-- Women Fail to Get Annual Mammograms as Doctors Debate Frequency
-- B y   P a t   W e c h s l e r ,   M i c h e l l e   C o r t e z   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2010-12-09T15:23:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/women-shun-annual-mammograms-as-u-s-doctors-debate-need-for-examinations.html
Half of U.S. women ages 40 or older
failed to get an annual mammogram for breast cancer last year,
said researchers concerned that women are confused by the debate
about the effectiveness of the screenings.  The study, sponsored by  Medco Health Solutions Inc. ,
reviewed records for 1.56 million patients from January 2006
through December 2009. About 207,000 new cases of invasive
breast cancer in women will be diagnosed and almost 40,000 women
will die from the disease this year, according to the Atlanta-
based American Cancer Society.  As death rates from the disease decreased over the last 10
years, the debate over how frequently to get a mammogram has
grown. The cancer society  recommends  that women ages 40 or older
get screened every year. In November 2009, the  U.S. Preventive
Services Task Force  advised women 50 or older to undergo a
 mammogram  only once every two years, and patients younger than
50 to get one only if they carry risk factors for the disease.  “As controversy becomes public and there’s so much back-
and-forth, it becomes confusing for women,”  said  Milayna
Subar , lead author of the study reported today at the  San
Antonio Breast Cancer Symposium , in a telephone interview.
“This study shows the need to put programs in place to educate
women and remind them to do it.”  Medco , based in Franklin Lakes, New Jersey, is the largest
U.S. pharmacy benefit manager by number of prescriptions. Subar,
a physician, heads the company’s Oncology Therapeutic Resource
Center, which seeks ways to suggest health improvement for
members of the health plans it serves.  Hormone Therapy  The mammogram research was among studies presented today
including new findings on the use of hormone therapy, and on the
risk of death for obese women with a type of breast cancer.  Mammography has been shown to reduce  death rates  20 percent
to 30 percent among women 40 or older, according to the National
Quality Measures Clearinghouse, an agency under the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services. The decrease stemmed
from earlier detection through screening and from improved
treatment, the cancer society has said.  Sixty-five percent of the study’s 708,290 women ages 50 to
64 -- considered the “must-do group” -- had a mammogram at
least twice during the four-year period, Subar said.  “That still leaves 35 percent not getting mammograms even
every other year,” she said. Fifty-seven percent of the 406,746
women ages 40 to 49 had a mammogram on average at least twice
during the four-year period, and 47 percent had one screening on
average every year.  Estrogen and Cancer  In a second study presented today at the San Antonio
symposium, researchers reported that giving estrogen alone to
older women who don’t have a uterus may reduce rather than
increase their risk of breast cancer.  The study found a 20 percent reduction in breast cancer for
older women who took  estrogen  alone, compared with a placebo,
for postmenopausal hormone therapy. The study, from scientists
who re-examined data from the Women’s Health Initiative trial,
looked only at women who didn’t have a uterus.  Millions of patients had already stopped taking  hormone
replacement therapy  after 2002 when the Women’s Health
Initiative found a higher risk of breast cancer in
postmenopausal women getting hormone treatment with both
estrogen and progestin. The trend of avoiding estrogen-only
treatment needs to be reversed, said  Joseph Ragaz , the lead
researcher for the new analysis.  Thousands of Lives  “We will be saving thousands of lives every year if we use
hormone replacement therapy for  menopause ,” said Ragaz, a
medical oncologist and a clinical professor at the University of
British Columbia in Vancouver. “Women will not only have
quality of life improvement by handling menopause more easily,
they will also have substantial benefits on bone fractures,
colon cancer and now breast cancer.”  Ragaz said estrogen-alone therapy should be given only to
women who don’t have a uterus, because the hormone raises the
risk of  uterine cancer . Women who have undergone surgery to
remove their uterus, called a hysterectomy, are typically
candidates for estrogen-only therapy.  Ragaz and other researchers looked at 10,739 women without
a uterus who were part of the estrogen-only trial of the Women’s
Health Initiative. Half received a placebo and the other half,
the drug Premarin, made by  Pfizer Inc.’s  Wyeth unit.  While women getting estrogen showed a 20 percent lower risk
of breast cancer, the reduction was 30 percent to 40 percent in
patients who had a low risk at the start of the study, Ragaz
said. Those included women with no strong family history of
breast malignancy.  Adds to Research  The analysis adds to research suggesting estrogen alone can
lower breast cancer risk and that the hormone may have a place
for treating menopausal symptoms, said  JoAnn Manson , a principal
investigator for the  Women’s Health Initiative , a 15-year
program organized by the U.S. National Institutes of Health.  “Estrogen still has a clinical role in the management of
moderate to severe hot flashes and other menopause symptoms,
especially in women who are closer to the onset of menopause,”
said  Manson , chief of the Division of Preventive Medicine at
Brigham & Women’s Hospital in Boston and a professor at Harvard
University.  Another study presented today at the San Antonio meeting
found that women who are obese and have a type of  breast cancer 
fueled by estrogen are more likely to die of the disease than
their slimmer peers.  Obesity Risk  Adult women with body mass indexes of 30 or above are 42
percent more likely to die of estrogen-receptor positive/HER-2
negative disease, the study found. Two-thirds of all breast
cancers are fed by estrogen, according to the  National
Institutes of Health .  Today’s study suggests that breast cancer patients who are
already overweight or obese should make an effort to avoid
further weight gain, said study author  Joseph Sparano , the
associate chairman of the oncology department at Montefiore
Medical Center.  “We may need to pay greater attention to nutrition, and
include a nutritional evaluation for someone who has breast
cancer,” said Sparano, who is also a professor of medicine at
the Albert Einstein College of Medicine, in a telephone
interview.  Body mass index , or BMI, is a measure of weight and height,
with a 5-foot 4-inch woman weighing 175 pounds having a BMI of
30. BMI of 30 or more is considered obese, while a BMI of 25 to
29.9 is considered overweight, according to the National
Institutes of Health.  Third of Population  About  a third  of the U.S. adult population is obese,
according to the Atlanta-based Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention.  The study examined 3,484 people, of which 2,115 had breast
cancer that was hormone-receptor positive, HER2-negative. HER2-
negative cancer doesn’t produce a protein called HER2, which is
a sign of a type of aggressive breast cancer generally treated
with  Roche Holding AG’s  Herceptin.  It may be that obese women have more estrogen, since fat
cells play a role in synthesizing it, Sparano said. It may also
be related to insulin levels, since higher levels of the hormone
have also been associated with increased breast cancer risk, he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Pat Wechsler  in New York at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net ;
 Michelle Cortez  in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  