-- Yankees Offer Cliff Lee $140 Million Contract Over Six Years, MLB.com Says
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2010-12-09T05:03:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/yankees-offer-pitcher-cliff-lee-140-million-six-year-contract-espn-says.html
The New York Yankees made a proposal
to free-agent pitcher  Cliff Lee  that’s worth almost $140 million
over six years, according to the Major League Baseball website.  “We have made an offer,” Yankees General Manager  Brian Cashman  said last night at baseball’s winter meetings in
Orlando, Florida, without providing specifics.  Lee, who helped the Texas Rangers reach the World Series in
October, is the most sought-after pitcher available this
offseason. The 32-year-old has a 102-61 career record and won
the 2008 Cy Young Award as the American League’s best pitcher.
Lee, who is 7-2 in the postseason, also is being courted by
teams including the Rangers.  “He’s someone that’s worth waiting for,” Cashman said.
“We certainly hope that he picks us. We think we have a lot to
offer, but we understand there is competition.”  Darek Braunecker, Lee’s agent, left the winter meetings
last night to deliver the Yankees’ offer to his client at Lee’s
home in Arkansas.  “He’s a guy that wins,” Yankees manager  Joe Girardi  said.
“He’s a guy that knows how to pitch on the big stage. He’s
everything that you’d want, and a guy that you would ask to help
you win another championship.”  Lee began his major league career with the Cleveland
Indians in 2002. In 2008, he went 22-3 with a 2.54 ERA for the
Indians to earn the Cy Young Award. He also played for the
Philadelphia Phillies and Seattle Mariners before joining the
Rangers on July 9.  Last season, Lee was a combined 12-9 with a 3.18 ERA and
won three playoff starts against the Tampa Bay Rays and the
Yankees as the Rangers reached the World Series for the first
time. Lee then went 0-2 as the Rangers lost to the San Francisco
Giants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nancy Kercheval  in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  