-- Yuan Debut Gets VTB Lowest Yields as BRICs Challenge Dollar: Russia Credit
-- B y   D e n i s   M a t e r n o v s k y
-- 2010-12-10T17:11:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-09/yuan-debut-gets-vtb-lowest-yields-as-brics-challenge-dollar-russia-credit.html
VTB Group, Russia’s second-biggest
bank, has become the first company from an emerging market
outside Asia to sell bonds denominated in Chinese yuan, cutting
the cost of raising money by looking east rather than west.  VTB sold 1 billion yuan ($150 million) of three-year bonds
yielding 2.95 percent today. The offering was “significantly
oversubscribed,” with Asian investors accounting for about 90
percent of the sale, the bank said in a statement. VTB’s ruble
bonds due in October 2013 are yielding 7.58 percent and the rate
on its March 2015 dollar bonds is 5.395 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Moscow-based bank is following McDonalds Corp. and
Caterpillar Inc. in selling debut yuan debt this year to broaden
its sources of funding. Russia and China are seeking to promote
the use of each other’s currencies internationally as well as in
bilateral trade to dilute the dominance of the euro and dollar.
Moscow’s Micex Stock Exchange will introduce ruble-yuan trading
Dec. 15 after China allowed its currency to trade against the
ruble on the interbank market from Nov. 22.  “It proves the point that key emerging-market currencies
are becoming references of value,” said  Luis Costa , an
emerging-markets strategist at Citigroup Inc. in London. “It is
a long path to tread, but the perception of developing versus
developed markets risk is poised to dissipate in the future.”  The sale will become the first in the Chinese currency for
a Russian company as well as for any emerging-market seller
outside the Asian region, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
ruble has weakened 5.3 percent against the yuan this year.  More Currencies  VTB sold 400 million Singapore dollars ($305 million) of
two-year notes yielding 4.2 percent in July. The notes yielded
3.604 percent today, pricing on Bloomberg shows.  The state-owned bank also planned to offer debt in
Brazilian reais. VTB postponed its debut sale of five-year bonds
last month, citing market volatility. VTB also indicated it may
sell bonds in yen, Hong Kong dollars and Korean won.  Sales of debt in emerging-market currencies are part of the
bank’s strategy to widen its pool of investors, Deputy Chairman
 Herbert Moos  said in an e-mailed response to questions on Dec.
8. The plan shows the so-called BRIC countries -- Brazil,
Russia, India and China -- can sell debt among themselves, he
said.  The yuan bond signifies “the emergence of a new global
trend of BRIC to BRIC issuance,” Moos said.  McDonald’s became the first international non-financial
company to issue debt in the Chinese currency when it sold 200
million yuan of 3 percent notes due in September 2013 on Aug.
20. Russia’s United Co. Rusal, the world’s biggest aluminum
producer, is also planning to sell bonds in yuan as it expands
its presence in China,  Oleg Mukhamedshin , the country’s head of
capital markets, said in September.  Currency Risk  While selling debt in the Chinese currency allows companies
to “explore other pockets of wealth in emerging markets,” VTB
is unlikely to be followed by lots of Russian issuers because
the risk of an appreciation in the currency and limited trading
reduce the appeal of lower yields, Costa said.  Yields of about 3 percent also may be too low for
investors, said  Sergey Dergachev , who helps manage the
equivalent of $8.5 billion in emerging-market debt at Union
Investment in Frankfurt and didn’t buy the bonds.  “The bond may be interesting for those betting on yuan
revaluation,” Dergachev said.  Investors expect the yuan to strengthen 2.2 percent against
the dollar in a year’s time to 6.5115, according to non-
deliverable forwards, or NDFs, tracked by Bloomberg.  Ruble Rates  The ruble was little changed, depreciating less than 0.1
percent to 30.9350 per dollar in today’s trading in Moscow.
NDFs, which provide a guide to expectations of currency
movements and interest rate differentials and allow companies to
hedge, show the ruble at 31.2006 per dollar in three months.  Russia’s dollar bonds due in 2020 were little changed,
leaving the yield at 4.922 percent. The price of the country’s
ruble notes due August 2016 was unchanged, keeping the yield at
7.31 percent.  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps fell 1 basis point to 145
yesterday, down from this year’s peak of 217, according to data
provider CMA. The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Credit-default swaps for Russia, rated Baa1 by Moody’s
Investors Service, its third-lowest investment grade rating,
cost 14 basis points more than contracts for Turkey, which is
rated four levels lower at Ba2. Russia swaps  cost  as much as 40
basis points less on April 20.  Extra Yield  The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries fell 1 basis point to 202, according
to JPMorgan EMBI+ indexes. The difference compares with 124 for
debt of similarly rated Mexico and 167 for Brazil, which is
rated two steps lower at Baa3 by Moody’s.  The  yield   spread  on Russian bonds is 30 basis points below
the average for emerging markets, down from a 15-month high of
105 in February, according to JPMorgan.  Yuan bonds issued by Chinese companies have returned 3.4
percent this year as of Dec. 9, according to a Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index. Ruble-denominated corporate debt  gained  4
percent this year, the Micex CBI Index shows.  China  overtook Germany  as Russia’s second-largest trading
partner in the first six months of this year, helped by exports
from Russian commodity producers including Moscow-based Rusal,
 OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel  and  OAO Rosneft . China and Germany both
accounted for 8.4 percent of Russia’s total trade turnover in
the first 10 months of 2010, the  data  show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Denis Maternovsky  in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  