-- UPDATE 3-Marsh & McLennan 3rd-qtr earnings more than double
-- 
-- Wed Nov 1, 2006 10:50am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/01/financial-marshmclennan-earns-idUSN0128781620061101

 

  (Recasts, adds analyst comment, share price) 

  By Ed Leefeldt NEW YORK  Nov 1 (Reuters) - Marsh & McLennan Cos. Inc.
( MMC.N ), the world's largest insurance broker by revenue, said
on Wednesday that third-quarter earnings more than doubled,
helped by cost cuts at its brokerage unit.  The earnings beat Wall Street estimates, boosting the
company's shares by 2.4 percent, but some analysts questioned
whether this quarter's turnaround was big enough to satisfy
critics of Chief Executive Michael Cherkasky and ward off
potential takeover predators.  Marsh's earnings jumped to $176 million, or 31 cents a
share, from $69 million, or 12 cents a share, in the
year-earlier quarter.  Cherkasky has been struggling to restructure the company
after its 2005 settlement of charges that it had rigged bids
and steered business to insurers that paid hidden commissions.  "There are signs of a turnaround in Marsh's brokerage
business, which suffered from the loss of those commissions,"
said Donald Light, an analyst with Celent, noting that
operating income rose to $143 million from $20 million.  Excluding one-time items, Marsh & McLennan earned 38 cents
a share, beating analysts' average estimate of 36 cents,
according to Reuters estimates.  "It was a decent quarter, but they have yet to see a
significant recovery," said Rob Haines, an analyst with
CreditSights. "They've got to get kick-started now, because
investors are fed up."  Since the start of the year, Marsh shares have fallen 5
percent compared with a gain of 4 percent in the Standard &
Poor's insurance index .GSPINSC.  Its shares hit a year low of $24.20 in August but have
since risen on reports that private equity firms, possibly
backed by rival Willis Group Holdings Ltd. ( WSH.N ) would try to
take the company private.  Reports that Jules Kroll, whose risk consulting unit is
part of Marsh, wanted to buy it back, were denied by Kroll.  "The saga of Marsh has turned into a veritable soap opera,"
said Kathy Shanley of Gimme Credit, saying pressure is on
Cherkasky to make his case at the company's conference call
this morning.  Celent's Light noted that Marsh still had problems in other
areas. Operating net from the consulting unit was slightly
down, and its Putnam investment unit, which is up for sale, is
"still struggling," he said.  Cherkasky said, "We have received serious inquiries for
buying or partnering with Putnam," adding that Marsh has been
checking the market to see what price it could fetch.  Putnam revenues fell 8 percent to $342 million in the
quarter. Italian bank UniCredit ( CRDI.MI ) is on the short list
to buy Putnam, one of its board members told Reuters earlier
Wednesday.  The stock rose 69 cents to $30.13 on the New York Stock
Exchange, within its 52-week range of $24.20 to $33.42.







