-- `Fake Pot' Said to Provide Marijuana-Like High Will Be Prohibited in U.S.
-- B y   J u s t i n   B l u m
-- 2010-11-24T20:09:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/-fake-pot-said-to-provide-marijuana-like-high-will-be-prohibited-in-u-s-.html
“Fake pot,” marketed in stores and
online as providing marijuana-like highs, would be made illegal
under regulations planned by the U.S. Drug Enforcement
Administration.  Smokable herbal blends that include chemicals designed to
mimic THC, the active ingredient in marijuana, are gaining
popularity, especially among teens and young adults, according
to a DEA statement today. Fake pot has been marketed as legal
because the active ingredients are different from those in the
real thing.  Use of the substances has prompted visits to emergency
rooms and more than 1,500 calls to poison control centers,
according to the DEA. The products are sold under such brand
names as “Spice,” “Red X Dawn” and “K2” and are labeled as
incense to mask their intended purpose, the agency said.  “Makers of these harmful products mislead their customers
into thinking that ‘fake pot’ is a harmless alternative to
illegal drugs, but that is not the case,”  Michele Leonhart , the
acting DEA administrator, said in the statement. “Today’s
action will call further attention to the risks of ingesting
unknown compounds and will hopefully take away any incentive to
try these products.”  Make Chemicals Illegal  The DEA published a notice in today’s  Federal Register 
saying that it intends to make it illegal to sell or possess
five chemicals that are used in fake pot, along with the
products that contain them.  After 30 days, the DEA plans to post a rule to temporarily
control the chemicals for at least 12 months, according to the
statement. During that time, the U.S. plans to study whether
they should be permanently banned.  “Until the risks associated with ingesting these products
and chemicals can be studied and understood, there is no place
for them on the shelves of any legitimate business,” said  Gil Kerlikowske , the Obama administration’s director of  national
drug control policy .  The products include plant materials coated with the
chemicals, which have names such as JWH-018 and JWH-200. They
are available in smoke shops and convenience stores and on the
Internet, according to the DEA.  At least 15 states have acted to control one or more of the
five chemicals targeted by the DEA. Senator  Orrin Hatch , a Utah
Republican, sent a  letter  this month to Leonhart asking for fake
pot to be regulated, saying use of the substances was reaching
“epidemic proportions” in his state.  ‘Extremely Harmful’  The products have the potential to be “extremely harmful”
because of their method of manufacture and their potency,
according to the Federal Register notice.  Synthetic pot has been developed over the last 30 years for
research purposes, according to the DEA. The substances haven’t
been approved by the Food and Drug Administration for human use.  Multiple shipments of the chemicals have been intercepted
by U.S. Customs and Border Protection and bulk loads have been
seized by U.S. law enforcement, according to the Federal
Register notice.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Justin Blum  in Washington at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  