-- `Shooting Star' Means Commodity Skid, United-ICAP Says: Technical Analysis
-- B y   Y i   T i a n
-- 2010-11-24T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/-shooting-star-means-commodity-skid-united-icap-says-technical-analysis.html
Commodities may drop 17 percent in
the next few weeks, according to technical analysis by United-
ICAP, a unit of ICAP Plc, the world’s largest broker of
transactions between banks.  The attached graph shows a “shooting star” on a monthly
candlestick chart for the Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of
19 raw materials, signaling the end of a rally and the start of
a slump, said  Walter J. Zimmerman Jr ., the Jersey City, New
Jersey-based chief technical analyst at United-ICAP.  “This is a ‘close-your-eyes-and-sell’ signal,”
Zimmerman, who has studied price patterns since the early 1980s,
said in an interview in New York. “The bulls are soundly
defeated, and bears are in control. The chart will start looking
ugly pretty quickly.”  The CRB index rose 14 percent in the two months ended Oct.
29. The chart formation emerged after the gauge opened at 302.4
on Nov. 1 and touched a monthly low of 293.95 yesterday before
closing at 297.69. Those values resulted in a unique pattern
compared with the high of 320.38 on Nov. 9, Zimmerman said.  In the short term, the CRB index may fall to 246, he said.
That would mark the lowest level since July 2009. Should that
level be breached, “a trap door opens,” and the gauge may drop
to as low as 135 by the end of 2012, Zimmerman said.  The CRB index has dropped 7.1 percent since reaching a 25-
month high on Nov. 9, partly on bets that moves by China to cool
its economy will erode demand for energy, metals and crops.  In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns to forecast changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index. Candlestick charts incorporate the
index’s open, high, low and close.  ICAP , based in London, also is a broker in the energy and
metal markets.  For Related News and Information:
Top energy stories: NRG
Top commodity stories: CMD
Top agriculture stories: AGR
Top metal and mining stories: METT  To contact the reporter on the story:
 Yi Tian  in New York at 
 Ytian8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net  