-- La Nina Weakens Slightly Even as More Rainfall Predicted, Australia Says
-- B y   W e n d y   P u g h
-- 2010-11-24T07:09:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/la-nina-weakens-slightly-even-as-more-rainfall-predicted-australia-says.html
A La Nina event, which has brought
wet weather to Southeast Asia and dry conditions to Argentina
and Brazil, will cause more rain across parts of Australia even
as indicators weaken, according to the Bureau of Meteorology.  Tropical Pacific Ocean temperatures, which typically cool
during a La Nina, have warmed slightly, while remaining
significantly below average for this time of year, the bureau
said in an update on its  website  today. The event was likely to
continue into the first quarter of 2011, it said.  La Nina-linked rains have cut Australian sugar output and
soaked estates and mines in Southeast Asia, helping drive rubber
to a 30-year high, curbing tin output in Indonesia and flooding
rice fields from Vietnam to the Philippines. Brazil soybean and
corn farmers may face a repeat of a 2005 drought that damaged
crops, a government weather forecaster said on Nov. 22.  “Sometimes a La Nina might wind down going into summer,
but this one looks like it might persist through to autumn,”
Karl Braganza, climate-monitoring manager at the bureau, said by
phone. “We would expect good rainfall to continue through
summer.” Summer in Australia is from December to February.  The La Nina has contributed to Australia’s wettest August-
to-October period on record, according to the Melbourne-based
bureau, helping to raise wheat yields and boosting water
supplies for cotton and rice. The event may also cause more
cyclones this season near the Queensland coast, it has warned.  La Ninas occur on average every three to five years and can
last nine to 12 months, according to the U.S.  National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration . The event can intensify
hurricane development in the Atlantic Ocean, bring more snow to
the eastern U.S. and drier conditions to Texas and Oklahoma.  The chance of stormier months to come for the northern U.S.
may cause some volatility in the natural-gas market in the next
few weeks,  Cameron Horwitz , an analyst at Canaccord Genuity
Inc. in Houston, has said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wendy Pugh  in Melbourne at 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpool4@bloomberg.net  