-- Acer Unveils Its First Three Tablet Computers in Challenge to Apple's IPad
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   K a t i e   H o f f m a n n
-- 2010-11-24T04:19:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/acer-unveils-its-first-three-tablet-computers-in-challenge-to-apple-s-ipad.html
Acer Inc. , the world’s second-
largest computer maker, unveiled a lineup of three tablet
devices in a bid to challenge  Apple Inc. ’s market-leading iPad.  Two of the tablets will be based on  Google Inc. ’s Android
platform and feature 7-inch and 10.1-inch screens, while the
third 10.1-inch-display device will run on Microsoft Corp.’s
Windows software, Taipei-based Acer said in New York yesterday.  Acer, which also makes mobile phones, aims to grab about 10
percent of the market for tablets that bridge the gap between
laptops and smartphones such as Research In Motion Ltd.’s
BlackBerry and Apple’s iPhone. Apple demonstrated the appeal of
such devices by selling 3 million iPads in the first 80 days
after the product debuted in April.  The new tablet computers may appeal to price-sensitive
consumers,  Angela Hsiang , an analyst with KGI Securities Co. in
Taipei, said by telephone. “The debut highlights Acer’s
official entry into the tablet computer market,” said Hsiang,
who rates the stock “outperform.”  Acer joins a field dominated by Apple, which had a 95
percent share of the tablet market last quarter, according to
Strategy Analytics. Samsung Electronics Co. recently released
its Galaxy Tab and RIM plans to release its 7-inch BlackBerry
PlayBook next quarter.  “This is a market that’s still not fully known, not fully
satisfied,”  Jim Wong , Acer’s head of information-technology
products, said yesterday. The company expects 40 million to 50
million tablets will be sold worldwide next year, he said.  With the 9.7-inch iPad priced between $499 and $829,
consumers looking for cheaper devices may be attracted to other
tablets below $400, Hsiang said. Still, it will take some time
before the new products can significantly add to Acer’s revenue,
she said.  Hedging Bets  “It’s a wide-open market and an opportunity for Acer to
make itself better known to a North American market,” said
 Roger Entner , head of telecom research at Nielsen Co.  Acer CEO  Gianfranco Lanci  may be trying to hedge his bets
by releasing devices in different sizes. Apple CEO  Steve Jobs 
said last month that devices such as the PlayBook are “dead on
arrival” because they are too small to compete with the iPad,
which has a 9.7-inch screen.  Acer , which trails Hewlett-Packard Co. in global computer
shipments, rose 0.5 percent to NT$90.20 at 11:54 a.m. on the
Taiwan Stock Exchange. The stock has lost 6.1 percent this year,
compared with a 1.5 percent gain by the benchmark Taiex index.  The two Android tablets will be available in April and the
Microsoft device will go on sale in February. All three will
offer Wi-Fi connectivity and allow users to surf the Internet
using a 3G connection. Wong said the tablets would likely be in
the previously stated range of $299 to $699.  Acer yesterday also released a smartphone with a 4.8-inch
screen based on Android that they touted as a phone with the
“soul of a tablet.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hugo Miller  in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
 Katie Hoffmann  in New York at 
 khoffmann4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  