-- Madoff Aide Bongiorno May Be Home for Thanksgiving, New York Judge Says
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2010-11-24T20:05:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/madoff-aide-bongiorno-may-be-home-for-thanksgiving-new-york-judge-says.html
Annette Bongiorno ,  Bernard Madoff ’s
longtime aide who was indicted this month in his massive Ponzi
scheme, may be home for Thanksgiving.  A Manhattan federal judge today said Bongiorno may be freed
from jail once a friend and two relatives agree to pledge
property they own as a guarantee that Bongiorno will return to
court. U.S. District Judge  Laura Taylor Swain  also said
Bongiorno’s home in Boca Raton, Florida, must be wired so that
the ex-Madoff aide will be subject to electronic monitoring.  “If everything moves with expedition,” Bongiorno could
“be taken home” today, defense attorney Maurice Sercarz said
after court in Manhattan. “There are a lot of logistical
hurdles.”  Bongiorno, who has homes in Boca Raton and Manhasset, New
York, was arrested Nov. 18 in Florida, where a judge ruled that
she must remain in custody until she and her guarantors pledge
$5 million for bail, including $2 million in cash or property
that had to be posted before her release. Swain today said that
Bongiorno may be freed after her friends and relatives pledge
$1.5 million in property.  Bongiorno’s sister and cousin and a longtime friend were in
court today and agreed to pledge property this afternoon.  Bongiorno, 62, who started working for Madoff in 1968,
shortly after she graduated from high school, is charged in a
federal indictment with conspiracy, securities fraud and tax
evasion. She worked as Madoff’s personal secretary in the 1980s
and had clerical duties at Bernard Madoff Investment Securities
LLC.  Family Photographs  Bongiorno oversaw about 200 accounts at Madoff Securities
worth about $8.5 billion, Assistant U.S. Attorney Julian Moore
said in court. Unlike others indicted with her, including
Madoff’s computer programmers and his office manager, Bongiorno
did more than simply cover-up Madoff’s fraud and “lied” about
what she knew when she was first interviewed by federal agents,
Moore said.  “She was one of the key players in one of the largest
frauds in world history,” Moore said in unsuccessfully urging
the judge not to modify the terms of Bongiorno’s bail.  Bongiorno faces life in prison if convicted. If not
released from jail today, she will likely be out of prison by
Nov. 26, Sercarz said.  Another defense lawyer,  Roland Riopelle , said Bongiorno
wouldn’t flee the U.S. if released from prison. He said she is
closely attached to her many nieces and nephews and, when first
interviewed in her home by the Federal Bureau of Investigation,
asked only that she be allowed to turn over their photographs.  Notoriety  “There’s no way a defendant of this notoriety can go
anywhere,” Riopelle said in court.  Madoff, 72, pleaded guilty last year to fraud and was
sentenced to 150 years in prison for using new investors’ funds
for payouts to existing ones in a scheme that ran from at least
the early 1990s.  At the time of Madoff’s arrest, his firm’s statements
reflected 4,900 accounts with $65 billion in nonexistent
investments, according to  Irving Picard , the trustee overseeing
the bankruptcy of Madoff Securities. Investors lost about $20
billion in principal.  The case is U.S. v. Bongiorno, 10-mj-08361, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Florida (West Palm Beach). The New
York case is 10-cr-00228, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Glovin  in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 