-- Chinese Bridge School, Saudi Green Project Lauded in Aga Khan Awards
-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 2010-11-24T12:22:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/aga-khan-award-lauds-chinese-bridge-school-saudi-green-project.html
The  Aga Khan Award for Architecture 
this year was won by five projects including a school built as a
bridge uniting a Chinese village and the restored center of
Tunisia’s capital Tunis.  The revitalization of a Saudi Arabian valley, a Spanish
museum and a Turkish factory also share the biggest prize in
architecture, according to a statement today by the organizers.  Winners will collect their prizes, totaling up to $500,000,
this evening at Qatar’s  Museum of Islamic Art  from the  Aga Khan ,
the spiritual leader of the Shia Ismaili Muslims. He established
the award in 1977 to “recognize architectural excellence” that
addresses the needs of societies in which Muslims have a
presence, according to the  Aga Khan Development Network  website.  “We look at pluralism in the Muslim world today,” said
Omar Hallaj, chairman of the master jury, in Doha today. “The
award embraces a Muslim world that is dynamic, innovative and
creative and has helped create a better understanding of it.”  A total of 401 projects applied for this year’s awards and
19 were shortlisted. The winners were picked by an independent
nine-member jury including French architect  Jean Nouvel , Indian-
born sculptor  Anish Kapoor  and Columbia University philosophy
professor  Souleymane Bachir Diagne .  Emre Arolat Architects designed the winning  Ipekyol Textile
Factory  in Edirne, Turkey, where floor-to-ceiling windows give
workers views of gardens and recreational areas.  Spiritual Center  Another winner was Li Xiaodong’s  Bridge School  in China’s
Fujian Province, connecting the village of Xiashi that lies on
two sides of a creek. The school, built on steel trusses with a
bridge below, is “the physical and spiritual centre of what was
a declining village,” the award website said.  Arriyadh Development Authority’s restoration of the  Wadi
Hanifa Wetlands , a valley near Saudi Arabia’s capital Riyadh
that had been exploited in an “aggressive and environmentally
destructive manner,” according to the project description, was
selected for its creation of parks, providing water treatment
and encouraging tourism.  “We revised the eligibility criteria for the 2010 cycle to
add planning practices,” award director Farrokh Derakhshani
said. “Planning is very important. If you have bad planning,
the city growing around it will have bad architecture.”  The Association de Sauvegarde de la Medina de Tunis’s  urban
revitalization  of the city won for its planning, including the
restoration of theaters and markets.  Palace City  The  Madinat al-Zahra Museum  was praised for its role “as a
place to interpret” the 10-century palace city of Madinat al-
Zahra in Cordoba, Spain, one of the most extensive early Islamic
archaeological sites in Western Europe. The museum “blends
seamlessly into the site and the surrounding farmland,” the
project description says.  “The award shows that we’re dealing with a Muslim Ummah
that exists in Alaska as well as the Phillipines,” said 82-
year-old Oleg Grabar, professor emeritus of Islamic Art and
Culture at Princeton University, who won the Chairman’s Award
for his lifetime contribution to Islamic art and architecture.  The award is made every three years and is being given for
the 11th time this year. It is larger than the $100,000  Pritzker
Prize , awarded annually since 1979 for “significant
contributions to humanity and the built environment through the
art of architecture.”  To contact the writer on the story:
 Ayesha Daya  in Doha at  adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steve Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 