-- Man Up When It’s Time for Your Junk Pat-Down: Margaret Carlson
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2010-11-24T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/man-up-when-called-for-your-junk-pat-down-commentary-by-margaret-carlson.html
Who likes going through security?
I’ve ground my molars while stuck behind someone wearing lace-up
boots, and that’s before the new, anatomically correct scanner,
which takes a  graphic  picture of your bits, paunches and other
concessions to gravity.  It’s a whopping assault on our dignity. The airlines would
love to return to the days of putting the customer first. To the
guy in uniform with blue rubber gloves, we’re potential
terrorists with explosives in our undergarments just pretending
to be going home to grandma’s house for Thanksgiving.  Try feeling the  Transportation Safety Administration 
agent’s pain. Exposed to public scrutiny while they work, it’s
easy to get annoyed when TSA workers chit-chat about last
night’s game or today’s lunch. Still, the mistakes are whoppers:
a man whose urostomy bag was broken, a breast-cancer survivor
compelled to show her prosthesis.  Enduring security screening is all we are asked to do in
the war on terror while others are subjected to multiple
deployments to Iraq and  Afghanistan . It should be embarrassing
to shirk our part in averting another attack. Yet for a loud
minority being touched by a TSA agent is too much of an
inconvenience.  Enter John Tyner, a guy with a cell-phone camera who
decided against the full-body image in favor of the pat-down,
achieving instant celebrity when he  warned  the agent “touch my
junk and I’ll have you arrested.”  Porn Is King  To him, let me say, in another cliche of the moment, Man
up! For a country where porn gets the most  Internet traffic  and
the TV family hour is awash in sex, it’s interesting that the
place where we’ve decided to get prudish is an antiseptic
exercise where the purpose is to keep a 747 with 500 people on
board from being blown up.  Although Tyner and his fellow travelers make up a tiny
segment of Americans, it’s a loud segment ready for a close-up -
- just not in front of a scanner. Local news crews race to the
nearest airport to record every complaint. Talk-show hosts can’t
book the whiners fast enough.  TSA head  John Pistole  had to do damage control this week.
In the media whirl, he seemed to say he was going to reconsider
the measures before saying that he couldn’t because, of course,
he can’t. He has a country to keep safe, even in the face of
threats of an opt-out protest by passengers today that might
snarl  air travel  on the busiest day of the year.  All Obama’s Fault  Like so much else, this problem is all the fault of Barack Obama’s socialistic Big Brother state when, in fact, the
apparatus was built by President  George W. Bush . After the World
Trade Center fell, Bush -- who ignored the warning that  Osama bin Laden  wanted to attack within the U.S. and likely by plane -
- decided he had to do something fast. The last line of defense
when all else fails, as it did on 9/11, was beefing up airport
security.  There wasn’t time to build it smart, but there was money to
build it big. Republicans, even small government ones, ridiculed
anyone who piped up about the wisdom of creating a gigantic
bureaucracy or worried about  privacy rights .  Rush Limbaugh 
voiced the prevailing attitude: “If you’re sucking dirt inside
a casket, do you know what your civil liberties are worth?
Zilch, zero, nada.”  Security is always reactive. After  Richard Reid , aka the
shoe bomber, we had to take off our shoes. Another attack led to
a ban on bottles of shampoo and water. After the Yemeni bombs,
out went printer cartridges in luggage. After the underwear
bomber, the revealing full-body scanner.  Good Model, Bad Name  Israel  would be a good model if we wanted to openly profile
and risk getting a bad name. But what if our enemies profile
themselves? We know who hates us and is intent on our
annihilation. We also know the weapon of choice is an airplane.  Is there a way -- short of profiling -- to concentrate on
the 20-year-old from Yemen and go easy on the man from  Kansas 
with the artificial hip? The fear is our methods will be sussed
out by our enemies. Go easy on a nun and terrorists will soon be
dressing as Carmelites. Exempt grandmothers and only
grandmothers will be recruited to carry explosives.  There will come a limit, as machines threaten to eat our
airports. The head of security at Amsterdam Airport  Schiphol 
said last week she doesn’t have another inch of space for
equipment. When security pushes out  Cinnabon , the terrorists
really will have won.  It’s a terrible, undignified, frustrating, wasteful system
until you imagine a world in which check-in security nabbed the
9/11 terrorists contemplating their vestal virgins. We wouldn’t
have lost 3,000 souls that day, nor be fighting two wars a
decade later.  So this holiday, let’s honor our pact as citizens of
Airport U.S.A. I go through security and so do you. You don’t
get to opt-out because we are all in this together. When the
seat-belt sign goes off, pull down your tray table, release your
seat from the full and upright position and drink to the
friendly skies. Happy Thanksgiving.  ( Margaret Carlson , author of “Anyone Can Grow Up: How
 George Bush  and I Made It to the White House” and former White
House correspondent for Time magazine, is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Margaret Carlson in Washington at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  