-- Hana to Pay as Much as $4.2 Billion for Lone Star's Korea Exchange Stake
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2010-11-24T08:14:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/hana-to-sign-deal-to-buy-lone-star-s-keb-stake-tomorrow-chairman-kim-says.html
Hana Financial Group Inc.  will sign
a contract tomorrow to buy a controlling stake in Korea Exchange
Bank from Lone Star Funds for as much as 4.75 trillion won ($4.2
billion), a deal that would be the biggest acquisition for Hana.  “Price negotiation is over now and we’ll sign the contract
tomorrow,”  Kim Seung Yu , chairman and chief executive officer
of Hana, said in a phone interview today before traveling to
London to meet Lone Star’s founder  John Grayken . Funding of the
purchase will be a “no problem” for Hana, the chairman said.  The board of Hana today unanimously approved the purchase
plan, Kim said. The company will spend 4.65 trillion won to 4.75
trillion won for the 51 percent stake in Korea Exchange Bank and
will pay in cash, Hana said in a regulatory filing.  Hana, South Korea’s fourth-largest financial company,
climbed to an almost 14-month high in Seoul trading on
speculation it would beat  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd.  to the deal. Kim has been seeking an acquisition to
challenge bigger local competitors, while Lone Star has been
trying to sell  Korea Exchange Bank  for more than four years.  “Hana shares have been discounted because of weak
marketing capacity and profitability compared with bigger
rivals,”  Shim Kyu Sun , a banking industry analyst at Hi
Investment & Securities Co., wrote in a note to investors. “The
KEB purchase will improve such weakness.”  Shim raised a six-month estimate for Hana’s shares to
53,000 won and kept a “buy” recommendation.  Shares Surge  Seoul-based Hana surged 7.3 percent to 39,700 won, the
highest close since Oct. 1, 2009. Korea Exchange slipped 0.8
percent to 12,250 won. The benchmark  Kospi Index  lost 0.2
percent.  ANZ Bank won’t make a counter-bid for the stake in Korea
Exchange Bank, said a person with knowledge of the matter who
declined to be identified before a statement from the Melbourne
based lender that may come tomorrow.  “We’ll make an announcement after Hana and Lone Star sign
an agreement,” said Stephen Ries, a spokesman for ANZ Bank. He
declined to comment further. ANZ had been studying KEB’s
finances since at least August.  Hana acquired SeoulBank for 1.15 trillion won in stocks in
2002, its third bank acquisition following Chung Chung Bank and
Boram Bank after the 1997-98 Asian financial crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Seonjin Cha  in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  