-- Manchester City May Pay $32 Million for Porto Striker Hulk: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2010-11-24T10:42:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/manchester-city-may-pay-32-million-for-porto-striker-hulk-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Hulk Credible for City  Manchester City may offer 20 million pounds ($31.6 million)
for Porto striker Hulk, to reduce the strain on  Carlos Tevez ,
the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Hulk, whose name is Givanildo Vieira de Souza, has
attracted City coach  Roberto Mancini ’s attention with 16 goals
as Porto took a 10-point lead in the Portuguese league, the
Mirror said.  Wolfsburg’s Edin Dzeko was Mancini’s main target, although
City was put off by the 50 million-pound asking price, the
newspaper said.  Hulk got his nickname because he supposedly looks like Lou
Ferrigno, who played the Incredible Hulk in the TV series, the
Mirror said.  Black Cat Bentley?  Sunderland manager  Steve Bruce  may try again to sign
Tottenham winger  David Bentley , although he could face
competition from Everton, the  Daily Mail  reported.  Bentley, 26, has started only one game this season and
Tottenham is ready to let him go for the right offer, the
newspaper said.  Striker  Danny Welbeck  doesn’t rule out a permanent move to
Sunderland but his good form may push up the transfer fee,  the
Sun  reported.  Welbeck, on a season-long loan from Manchester United, has
scored three goals in the last two games and is rated at 7
million pounds, the newspaper said.  “We’d love him to stay, but how much will it cost now to
buy him?,” Bruce was cited as saying. “The form he’s showing
now is why we brought him to the club. His ability has never
been in question.”  Hammer Horror  West Ham manager  Avram Grant  is battling to save his job at
the Premier League’s bottom club after his No. 2  Zeljko Petrovic 
left the team yesterday, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  The axing of Petrovic “damages” Grant at a time when he
was supposed to have the backing of the club, the newspaper
added.  Grant was prepared to take on a new assistant, with  Steve Lomas ,  Paolo Di Canio  and  John Hartson  all possible arrivals,
but Petrovic’s exit and a weekend match against fellow
strugglers Wigan mean time could be running out for the Israeli,
the Mirror said.  United Chases Starlet  Manchester United will compete with Bayern Munich to sign
16-year-old Croatian midfielder Dino Spehar, according to  the
Mail .  He became the youngest player to appear in the Croatian
Premier League on his recent debut for Osijek. United scouts
were at the game to check on Dinamo Zagreb defender Sime
Vrsjalko, the newspaper said.  United manager  Alex Ferguson  confirmed he expects to sign
goalkeeper Anders Lindegaard from Norway’s Aalesunds FK within
three weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter-Joseph Hegarty  in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 