-- Anglo Could Sell Anglo Platinum, Other South African Assets, Liberum Says
-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 2010-11-24T06:24:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/anglo-could-sell-anglo-platinum-other-south-african-assets-liberum-says.html
Anglo American Plc  could sell  Anglo
Platinum Ltd. , the largest producer of the metal, and other
South African assets to improve its valuation and become more
attractive to potential acquirers, Liberum Capital Ltd. said.  While such as sale was “unthinkable a few years ago,” the
idea “could have merit now,” Liberum analysts led by  Michael Rawlinson  in London said in a note yesterday.  Anglo has “weighty exposure to South Africa where issues
with power, labour, rail and corruption all contribute to a
worsening business environment,” Liberum said.  South African mine production was disrupted in 2008 because
of a shortage of electricity generation and the state-owned
power utility is struggling to expand. Labor unions have won pay
increases of more than 10 percent this year, raising mining
companies’ costs. The country’s mines department said in August
it found maladministration in the award of prospecting rights
and placed a six-month moratorium on issuances.  Anglo, which is based in London, could sell its  Kumba Iron
Ore Ltd.  unit, Liberum said. The company also has diamond and
coal mines in South Africa.  James Wyatt-Tilby , a spokesman for Anglo, declined to
comment.  Shares in Anglo have gained 4.5 percent on the London Stock
Exchange this year. Australia’s BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s
largest mining company, advanced 14 percent during the period.
Switzerland’s Xstrata Plc, which last year proposed a takeover,
increased 13 percent.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch said in July that Anglo may
be wise to carve up its business. A dispute over the award of a
prospecting right at a Kumba mine was among signals indicating
that the local environment is “getting worse,” the bank said
at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carli Lourens  in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net  