-- Thank Terrorists When Airport Screeners Grope: Amity Shlaes
-- B y   A m i t y   S h l a e s
-- 2010-11-24T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/thank-terrorists-when-airport-screeners-grope-amity-shlaes.html
  Hillary Clinton ’s opponents are
ready to lob frozen turkeys at the secretary of state after she
opined about airport pat-downs on a Sunday talk show.  Asked if the procedure is necessary, Clinton said, “You
know, we’re doing this because the terrorists keep getting more
creative about what they do to hide explosives and, you know,
crazy things like underwear.” Then she added, “So, there is a
need.”  The turkey lobbers got even more wound up by her response
when asked whether she would submit to a pat-down. “Not if I
could avoid it. No, I mean who would?” she said.  These responses demonstrate exquisite hypocrisy, according
to her critics. In this case, though, Clinton is right. No one
wants to submit to a body search. It’s just that these days, we
can’t avoid it. People do want to attack us. They do apparently
conceal  Pentaerythritol tetranitrate  and other explosives on
their bodies from time to time.  With her underwear reference, Clinton was recalling a real
terror event, not a hypothetical: the effort by a man with
explosives sewn into his underwear to bring down a commercial
airliner over  Detroit  during last year’s holiday season. An al-
Qaeda group that claimed responsibility for the incident said it
had tested a “new kind of explosives,” which had “passed
through security.” Warnings don’t come clearer than that.  The hostility to  Clinton ’s remarks reminds us of several
things. The administration’s weakness in foreign policy comes
first to mind. Clinton’s dealings with states that back
terrorism, like Iran, have given such regimes precious time to
build up their nuclear arsenal, or plot against the U.S.  Terrorism Tactics  President  Barack Obama  in May introduced his  security
strategy  for the nation. The plan said the U.S. would always
seek to delegitimize terror, yet it concluded: This is not a
global war against a tactic -- terrorism -- or a religion --
Islam.’’  So the War on Terror is over. It’s just that somebody
forgot to tell the underwear bombers -- and the  Transportation
Security Administration . One senses that Clinton is farther
along the learning curve here than Obama. Insofar as she pulls
him up behind her, that’s good.  The second thing this underclothes exchange reminds us of
is the weak logic of the libertarian right. Libertarians target
the TSA as the enemy. This year it is popular to argue that the
incremental rise of government represented by the TSA and other
institutions will gradually overshadow our democracy. The
philosopher they cite is Friedrich August von Hayek, the author
of  “The Road to Serfdom.”   Protecting Freedom  Yet those who talk about the road to serfdom tend to forget
that Hayek himself recognized that sometimes freedom now has to
be compromised in order to protect democracy, and hopefully, a
future for freedom. During World War II  Hayek  did not go around
the streets of Cambridge,  England , carrying “No More War”
posters. He went up to the roofs of the university town to 
volunteer as an air warden and do his part in protecting the 
country that had taken him in.  Those, left or right, who fault Clinton should note how
difficult most of the trade-offs are these days. The Obama
administration has opted to move trials of suspected terrorists
out of military tribunals and into American courts. Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab, the suspect in the Detroit underwear bombing
case, was charged in U.S. District court.  Obama’s critics said that by making it clear to
Abdulmutallab that he would have the rights of any American in
court, the government also made it possible for him to go silent
about the possible terror attacks of the next Christmas season.
The libertarian crowd is so concerned with freedom it applaudes
companies that make underwear inserts to protect their intimate
parts from the view of TSA screening machines. That sounds like
fun, but the energy is misplaced.  Terrorism’s Toll  What’s going on is a kind of collective temper tantrum over
the duration of the struggles with al-Qaeda. For almost a
decade, it’s been harder to mail letters, cross the border into  Canada  to ski or hop on a plane to anywhere. That feels too
long. We knew we could do without certain freedoms for 1 year;
10 years is another matter.  Nor are Americans alone in losing something. One of the
great symbols of new post-Cold War freedom was the construction
of a glass dome with a glass floor over the  Reichstag . Visitors
to the German parliament building enjoyed the liberating
experience of watching as their lawmakers wrote laws below.
German parliamentarians for their part were humbled by the
action of making law beneath their own citizen’s feet.  This architectural tribute to democracy is also now a
casualty of terror. The government made the cupola off limits
after warnings Berlin is being targeted.  But wishing terrorists away does not mean they will go
away. It’s a form of narcissism, left or right variety, to
assume that the ability to extinguish al-Qaeda lies within the
capacities of those who sit down at America’s Thanksgiving
tables. Clinton’s defense of scanning wasn’t weakness. It was an
honest acknowledgement of what has turned out to be, alas, a
long-term problem.    Amity Shlaes , senior fellow in economic history at the  Council on Foreign Relations , is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Amity Shlaes at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 