-- Asian Stocks Pare Losses After Korea Battle; Japan Falls Following Holiday
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 2010-11-24T06:34:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/asian-stocks-decline-on-korea-skirmish-mounting-global-economic-concern.html
Asian stocks  pared declines as
markets across the region rebounded following falls in the wake
of North Korea’s attack on South Korea yesterday. Japanese
shares fell as they resumed trade after a holiday.  Korean Airlines Co.  declined 2 percent in Seoul.  Tokyo
Electron Ltd. , a Japanese semiconductor equipment that gets 16
percent of its revenue from South Korea, sank 2.1 percent.
 Mitsubishi Corp. , which gets more than half of sales from
commodities, slipped 1.4 percent after oil and copper futures
dropped.  Ping An Insurance (Group) Co. , China’s second-largest
insurer, climbed 1.8 percent after falling 4.4 percent yesterday.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  declined 0.4 percent to 130.58
as of 3:31 p.m. in Tokyo, after falling as much as 1.3 percent
earlier. The MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan Index climbed 0.2
percent as markets in China, Hong Kong and Singapore rebounded.  “The market seems to be bouncing back after overreacting a
bit to the Korean tensions yesterday,” said  Matt Riordan , who
helps manage about $6.6 billion at Paradice Investment
Management Pty. in Sydney. “Come tomorrow, we should be back to
the fundamentals and trying to interpret what’s been going on
out there. Suddenly the European debt issues are back to the
forefront.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index has fallen 3.5 percent from a
two-year high set on Nov. 8 amid speculation China will
intensify efforts to tame inflation and on concern Ireland’s
debt crisis will spread in Europe. Ireland’s debt rating was
lowered two steps by Standard & Poor’s today, with a negative
outlook, as a bailout of the country’s banking system is set to
escalate the government’s borrowing needs.  Korean Skirmish  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  dropped 0.8 percent after
a holiday yesterday. South Korea’s Kospi Index declined 0.2
percent. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index lost 0.1 percent. Markets
in South Korea, Australia and New Zealand had closed for trading
when news of the clash between North and South Korea broke out.  China’s  Shanghai Composite Index  climbed 0.8 percent. Hong
Kong’s  Hang Seng Index  and Singapore’s Straits Times Index
gained 0.7 percent. Declines on those markets deepened yesterday
as news of the Korean skirmish broke.  North Korea fired artillery shells yesterday at the South
Korean island of Yeonpyeong near the disputed border between the
two countries, killing two soldiers and setting houses ablaze in
the worst attack on its neighbor in at least eight months.  South Korea returned fire and scrambled fighter jets as
President  Lee Myung Bak  vowed to respond “sternly.” The clash
came 11 days after North Korea showed a uranium-enrichment plant
to visiting U.S. scientists.  ‘Escalation of Violence’  The U.S. and South Korea will hold joint military drills
off the Asian country’s west coast from Nov. 28 to Dec. 1, U.S.
forces in South Korea said today in an e-mailed statement. The
nuclear-powered aircraft carrier USS George Washington will join
the drills, which are “defensive in nature,” according to the
statement said.  “There’s been a lot of big headlines crossing the wires in
the last couple of weeks that are shaking investors,”  Jack Ablin , chief investment officer at Chicago-based Harris Private
Bank, which oversees $55 billion, said on Bloomberg Television.
“Anytime there’s escalation of violence, it creates a concern.
That combined with the timing of the disclosure of North Korea’s
nuclear facilities makes it much more disturbing.”  Korean Air slid 2 percent to 72,100 won and Asiana Airlines
slipped 1.6 percent to 9,720 won.  LG Corp. , the holding company
of South Korea’s fourth-largest family-run industrial group,
dropped 1.2 percent to 84,500 won.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  rose 0.5 percent
today. The index slid 1.4 percent yesterday, its biggest
decrease in a week, and more than 15 times as many stocks
declined as advanced amid concern Europe’s debt crisis is
intensifying and growing speculation China will boost interest
rates.  Copper, Oil  Tokyo Electron fell 2.1 percent to 5,150 yen in Tokyo.
 Advantest Corp. , the world’s biggest maker of memory-chip
testers that gets more than 25 percent of its revenue from South
Korea, dropped 1 percent to 1,700 yen.  Mitsubishi Corp. fell 1.4 percent to 2,115 yen.  Inpex Corp .,
Japan’s biggest energy explorer, declined 2.1 percent to 438,000
yen. Rio Tinto Group, the world’s third-biggest mining company,
dropped 1.3 percent to A$82.49.  Crude oil for January delivery lost 0.6 percent yesterday
in New York to settle at $81.25 a barrel, and copper futures
dropped 1.1 percent. The London Metal Exchange Index of prices
for six industrial metals including copper and aluminum fell 1.6
percent yesterday. Gold futures jumped 1.5 percent, the biggest
gain for a most-active contract since Nov. 4.  China Dongxiang Group Co. , owner of rights to the Kappa
sportswear brand in China, slumped 9 percent to HK$3.75 in Hong
Kong, the  biggest drop  on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index. JPMorgan
Chase & Co. lowered its rating on the stock to “underweight”
from “neutral.”  Among stocks that advanced, Ping An Insurance climbed 1.8
percent to HK$90.95. China Life Insurance Co., the nation’s
biggest insurer, rose 1.1 percent to HK$33.80.  Hana Financial Group Inc. , South Korea’s fourth-largest
financial company, surged 7.3 percent to 39,700 won. The company
offered as much as 4.8 trillion won ($4.2 billion) for Lone Star
Funds’ stake in Korea Exchange Bank in what would be South
Korea’s biggest domestic acquisition in four years.  Lynas Corp., an Australian mining company, jumped 10
percent to A$1.53. The company agreed to supply rare earth
metals to Japan’s  Sojitz Corp. , the Japanese trading company
said in a notice posted at an industry press club. Sojitz
advanced 9.1 percent to 168 yen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Burgos  in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 