-- Stocks Rally on Unemployment-Claims Data; Irish Bonds Retreat, Oil Surges
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d
-- 2010-11-24T21:11:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/asian-stocks-fall-won-drops-on-north-korean-attack-ireland-s-rating-cut.html
Stocks  rallied, driving the MSCI
World Index up from a five-week low, after U.S. jobless claims
declined to the fewest since 2008 and German business confidence
improved. Yields on Treasuries and Irish bonds increased and oil 
surged.  The MSCI World advanced 0.8 percent at 4 p.m. in New York.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 1.5 percent to 1,198.35,
ending a two-day slump. Irish 10-year yields soared 45 basis
points to 8.86 percent, while those on Treasuries of similar
maturity jumped to the highest in four days. Oil surged the most
in four months.  Fewer Americans filed for first-time unemployment benefits,
and a measure of consumer confidence topped forecasts,
bolstering optimism in the recovery. The Ifo institute said its
gauge of Germany’s business climate jumped to a record high this
month. Ireland’s debt rating was cut two steps yesterday by S&P,
which signaled more downgrades should the government increase
borrowing to bail out banks. North Korea’s shelling on South
Korea helped drive stocks down yesterday.  “It seems things are taking off,” said  Randy Bateman , chief
investment officer at Huntington Asset Management in Columbus,
Ohio, which oversees $13.8 billion. “For the most part, the
economic numbers in the U.S. were good. There’s some degree of
resolution of the Irish crisis and no further hostilities
between North and South Korea. The economy is recovering,
Christmas spending will certainly be better than last year.”  S&P 500 Rebound  The S&P 500 has rebounded 17 percent from its 2010  low  on
July 2 and is poised to gain for a third month as the Federal
Reserve’s $600 billion asset-purchase plan stokes confidence in
the recovery.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  added 1 percent, ending the
biggest three-day drop since August. Porsche SE jumped 6.3
percent after operating profit surged more than sevenfold. Bank
of Ireland tumbled for a third day as the government prepared to
inject more capital, a step that may make it the fifth Irish
lender to fall under state control in less than two years.  U.S. stocks  extended  gains after reports showed jobless
claims declined by 34,000 to 407,000 in the week ended Nov. 20.
and the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index of
consumer sentiment increased to 71.6 this month, the highest
since June. Economists projected a reading of 69.5, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  ‘Economic Momentum’  “There’s economic momentum in the U.S.,” said  David Kelly ,
who helps oversee $445 billion as chief market strategist for
JPMorgan Funds in New York. “The jobs market is finally
beginning to respond to the economic recovery.”  Separate reports from the U.S. showed household purchases
advanced, durable goods orders dropped and demand for new homes
unexpectedly fell.  Tiffany  & Co., the world’s second-largest luxury jewelry
retailer, rallied 5.3 percent to a record high after beating
earnings forecasts. Amazon.com Inc. jumped 5.4 percent as
Citigroup Inc. said it’s benefiting the most from online retail-
sales growth. Oracle Corp., the second-biggest business software
maker, advanced 2 percent after a jury said SAP AG must pay the
company $1.3 billion for copyright infringement.  The difference in yield, or spread, between Ireland’s 10-
year debt and bunds  widened  29 basis points to 615 basis points,
according to Bloomberg generic data. Portugal’s 10-year yield
increased 11 basis points to 7.00 percent.  Credit-default swaps insuring Portuguese government debt
slipped 6 basis points to 476 basis points, while those for
Spain fell 3 basis points to 295 basis points, reversing earlier
gains that brought them both to all-time highs.  Irish Bailout  Ireland’s government said it will cut spending by about 20
percent and raise taxes over the next four years as talks on a
bailout of the country near conclusion.  Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  is rushing to finish up talks
with the European Union and the International Monetary Fund on
an 85 billion-euro ($114 billion) rescue as his governing
coalition falls apart. The country’s labor unions plan Nov. 27
strikes to protest the cuts, which are designed to trim a
deficit that will reach 32 percent of gross domestic product
when the cost of bank bailouts is taken into account.  Portuguese workers walked off the job today to protest
government austerity measures as the country faces its biggest
strike in 22 years. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  today
repeated her call for bondholders to share the burden when
nations can’t pay their debts.  The dollar and yen dropped against the Australian dollar
and the Canadian currency strengthened against all 16 of its
major counterparts.  The yen slid 1.9 percent to 82.71 versus the Canadian
dollar and 1.5 percent against the Australian currency. The
greenback fell 1 percent to 98.17 U.S. cents against the
Australian dollar. The euro advanced 0.3 percent to 111.44 yen,
coming off a two-month low.  Commodities Jump  The S&P GSCI Index of 24 commodities surged 2.4 percent as
copper futures climbed for the first time in three days in New
York and crude oil jumped $2.61 to $83.86 a barrel, the biggest
gain since July.  Treasuries fell, wiping out gains of the last two days, as
the refuge appeal of U.S. debt declined and the reports showing
a strengthening economy reduced demand at a $29 billion auction
of seven-year notes.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  advanced 0.5 percent,
reversing declines after the U.S. economic reports. The won
closed down 0.4 percent, after falling as much as 3 percent
following North Korea’s artillery fire on the South yesterday.
China’s  Shanghai Composite Index  gained 1.1 percent, rebounding
from a six-week low.  Emerging markets will “be growing” at three times the
rate compared with other markets this year, said Templeton Asset
Management Ltd.’s  Mark Mobius .  “People always ask me if there’s going to be a double
dip” recession, Mobius said at a conference in Manama, Bahrain.
“My answer has always been ‘No. There will not be a double
dip.’”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephen Kirkland  in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker in New York at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  