-- Asia Currencies Rebound After `Knee-Jerk Reaction' to Korea Artillery Fire
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L u i
-- 2010-11-24T08:33:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/asia-currencies-rebound-after-knee-jerk-reaction-to-korea-artillery-fire.html
Asian  currencies  rose for the first
time in four days, rebounding after an exchange of artillery
fire between North and South Korea triggered losses yesterday.  The Asia Dollar Index, which tracks Asia’s 10 most-used
currencies excluding the yen, rose 0.4 percent as of 4:15 p.m.
in Hong Kong, having yesterday closed at an eight-week low.
South Korea’s won dropped more than 3 percent today before
recovering the bulk of its slide after the government pledged to
stabilize financial markets.  “Asian currencies were rattled a bit by the incident
between North and South Korea,” said  Brian Jackson , an
emerging-market strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in Hong Kong.
“It does seem that there was a bit of a knee-jerk reaction and
now people think the situation may not be as bad.”  The won declined 0.4 percent to close at 1,142.25 per
dollar in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
earlier touched 1,172.50, the weakest level since Sept. 9.
Malaysia’s ringgit rose 0.2 percent to 3.1315 as of 4:30 p.m. in
Kuala Lumpur, following a 1.1 percent slide yesterday, and the
Thai baht gained 0.1 percent to 30.04. Taiwan’s dollar was
steady at NT$30.80, after climbing as much as 1.3 percent.  The won trimmed its losses after the finance ministry said
today the government will supply “ample” liquidity to keep
financial markets stable and will act on “herd” behavior.
South Korea scrambled fighter jets and returned fire after North
Korea yesterday lobbed shells at an island near their border,
killing two soldiers and setting houses ablaze in the worst
attack in at least eight months.  Taiwan Production  Taiwan’s dollar erased earlier gains on suspected central
bank intervention to check appreciation. A government report
yesterday showed industrial production climbed 14.4 percent in
October from a year earlier, more than the 13.1 percent median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey of economists.  Taiwan’s stabilization fund, central bank and Financial
Supervisory Commission are ready to enter the markets to ensure
stability amid increased tension between North and South Korea,
the Taipei-based Commercial Times reported today, without saying
where it got the information.  “The strong economic growth will continue to push the
Taiwan dollar higher and put pressure on the central bank to
slow the currency’s rally,” said  Tarsicio Tong , a currency
trader at Union Bank of Taiwan in Taipei.  The Asia Dollar Index declined in each of the last two
weeks as Ireland entered talks to secure financial aid, spurring
concern Europe’s debt crisis will worsen and bolstering demand
for dollars. Ireland’s debt rating was lowered two notches
yesterday by Standard & Poor’s.  ‘Risk-Off Day’  Yuan forwards traded near a four-week low and China’s
currency weakened 0.1 percent. Twelve-month non-deliverable
forwards were little changed at 6.4990 per dollar, reflecting
bets the currency will strengthen 2.3 percent in a year from the
spot rate of 6.6510.  “It’s a risk-off day today, with the Korea situation and
the European debt crisis,” said  Patrick Perret-Green , the
Singapore-based head of foreign-exchange and rates strategy at
Citigroup Inc. “In this environment people do not want to
trade.”  Elsewhere, the Philippine peso gained 0.5 percent to 43.960
versus the greenback and Indonesia’s rupiah rose 0.2 percent to
8,958. Singapore’s dollar was little changed at S$1.3098.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Lui  at 
 plui4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 