-- AT&T's Stephenson, Dish Chief Ergen Lobby FCC on Net Neutrality Standards
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2010-11-24T21:14:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/at-t-s-stephenson-dish-chief-ergen-lobby-fcc-on-net-neutrality.html
Leaders of  AT&T Inc.  and  Dish
Network Corp. , who are on different sides in the debate over
net-neutrality rules, spoke with the chairman of the Federal
Communications Commission ahead of what may be a decisive vote.  AT&T Chief Executive Officer  Randall Stephenson  said
Internet rules  “should encourage investment and innovation,” 
and Dish Chief Executive Officer  Charlie Ergen  called for
 “strong open Internet rules”  in separate conversations
yesterday with Chairman  Julius Genachowski  in Washington,
according to disclosure filings released today by the FCC.  AT&T provides Internet service, and satellite-television
company Dish relies on Internet lines to offer video-on-demand.  The two companies disagree on how the FCC should write net-
neutrality rules, which would bar Internet-service providers
such as AT&T and  Comcast Corp.  from selectively blocking or
slowing content delivered to subscribers while favoring their
own offerings.  In earlier filings, Dish said it supports Genachowski’s
proposal to write “strong non-discrimination and transparency
rules,” and AT&T said “sweeping new regulations” would be
“unwise, unwarranted and unprecedented.”  Genachowski may be preparing for a vote Dec. 21 on the
Internet rules.  Net-neutrality rules are backed by President Barack Obama
and technology companies led by  Google Inc. ,  EBay Inc.  and
 IAC/InterActiveCorp . Telephone and cable providers led by AT&T,
 Verizon Communications Inc.  and Comcast have said rules aren’t
needed and may damp investment in high-speed Internet service,
or broadband.  Englewood, Colorado-based Dish, the second-largest U.S.
satellite television company with 14.3 million customers, relies
on broadband connections often supplied to subscribers by its
competitors to deliver video-on-demand service, the company said
in a filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Todd Shields  in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  