-- Hathaway Falls for Playboy in Birthday Suit; ‘Tangled’: Movies
-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 2010-11-24T03:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/hathaway-falls-for-playboy-in-birthday-suit-tangled-movies.html
When we first meet Maggie in
“ Love & Other Drugs ,” she’s being examined in a doctor’s
office. A free-spirited young artist suffering from Parkinson’s
disease, she’s worried about a blotch on her breast. She
unbuttons her blouse and shows the mark to her physician, who
calmly diagnoses it as a spider bite.  Anne Hathaway , who plays Maggie, exposes plenty more of her
anatomy in this hyper, romantic dramedy. So does co-star  Jake Gyllenhaal , whose brash pharmaceutical salesman Jamie falls so
hard for her that he gives up his playboy ways.  Both co-stars seem to enjoy prancing around in their
birthday suits, showing off bodies that are good advertisements
for healthy diet and exercise.  All the nudity may help you forget the problematic script,
which was inspired by Jamie Reidy’s memoir, “ Hard Sell: The
Evolution of a Viagra Salesman .” Screenwriters Edward Zwick
(who also directed), Charles Randolph and Marshall Herskovitz
have turned Reidy’s account of shenanigans in the pharmaceutical
industry into a treacly romance in which the shady business is
relegated to a supporting role.  Maggie is initially wary of Jamie, and not just because of
his flexible ethical code, which allows him to pose as an
observing medical intern while Maggie bares her breast to the
doctor. She’s more afraid of an intimate relationship that might
make her rely on another human being while her disease takes its
toll.  Sleazy Doctor  Hathaway and Gyllenhaal, previously paired in “Brokeback
Mountain,” are both charismatic performers and together they
set off some sparks. Yet I found myself wanting more of the
satiric subplot involving Jamie’s rise as a drug salesman,
including his friendships with his cynical boss ( Oliver Platt ),
a sleazy doctor ( Hank Azaria ) and a married rival
( Gabriel Macht ) who previously had an affair with Maggie.  Their world, in which drug salesmen curry favor with
doctors by procuring women and concert tickets, could have
provided enough material for an interesting movie without the
illness du jour.  “Love & Other Drugs,” from  20th Century Fox, opens today
across the U.S. Rating: **  ‘Tangled’  “ Tangled ,” Walt Disney’s 50th animated feature, combines
elements of its old-fashioned films and modern technology with
mixed success.  This musical 3-D version of the Rapunzel tale features the
uplifting songs (by  Alan Menken  and Glenn Slater), vivid
characters and gentle humor that you’ve come to expect from an
animated Disney movie. However, it lacks the originality and
magical touch of the studio’s classics.  Co-directors Nathan Greno and Byron Howard have reworked
the Brothers Grimm tale about a long-haired girl trapped in a
tower, transforming Rapunzel (voiced by  Mandy Moore ) from a
commoner into a princess and changing her savior from a prince
to a charming thief named Flynn Rider (Zachary Levi). New
characters also include the fearless horse Maximus, the cute
chameleon Pascal and the Stabbington Brothers, two giant goons
who’ve been double-crossed by their former partner Flynn.  Rapunzel’s captor, the devious Mother Gothel ( Donna Murphy ), uses the teenager’s 70-foot-long golden tresses as an
elixir to keep herself young. Rapunzel’s hair, especially when
it’s used as a ladder to climb up the tower, and a floating
lantern scene are wonderfully rendered in 3-D. Other times, the
extra dimension adds little.  “Tangled,” from Walt Disney Pictures, opens today across
the U.S. Rating: **1/2  ( Rick Warner  is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 