-- Montara Oil Spill May Lead Australia to Strip PTTEP of Drilling Licenses
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2010-11-24T09:13:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/australia-to-review-pttep-licence-to-operate-after-montara-offshore-spill.html
PTT Exploration & Production Pcl  may
lose the right to drill in Australia after a review of the
company’s plans to prevent a repeat of its 2009 Montara oil
spill off the northwest coast, the energy minister said.  The study of the Thai company’s operations is due by the
end of the year,  Martin Ferguson  said in parliament today.
Australia will assess all wells completed off its coast since
2005 and give the agency overseeing offshore petroleum drilling
more power as part of its response, he said.  PTTEP’s spill and the April  BP Plc  disaster in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico prompted calls for stronger controls worldwide of
the oil and gas industry. While Ferguson criticized regulators
and “widespread and systemic shortcomings” by PTTEP, he said
curbing exploration would threaten Australia’s economy and the
country’s energy security.  “They’ve got the opportunity to start from scratch and
build a new system that is more integrated,” said Tina Hunter,
an assistant professor at Bond University in Queensland and
specialist in offshore oil regulation. “At the end of the day,
companies want to deal with one government body. They need a
regulatory framework that gives clear and consistent
direction.”  Hunter said she would like the regulator to have even
greater scope.  ‘Poor Practices’  The Thai company fell 3.9 percent to 173 baht in  Bangkok
trading  at 4:49 p.m., set for the steepest drop since April 8.  The Thai company is confident its operating permits won’t
be revoked, Chief Executive Officer  Anon Sirisaengtaksin  said.
The company’s Australasia unit said in a statement that the
“deficiencies” detailed in the report are being addressed to
ensure a spill doesn’t happen again.  The Montara leak could have been avoided, Ferguson said at
a news conference after releasing a report on the spill. In this
case, “the regulatory dog did not bark.”  The Northern Territory Department of Resources, one of the
he bodies with oversight at Montara, was “not a diligent
regulator,” Ferguson said. “Its minimalist approach to its
regulatory responsibilities gave it little chance of discovering
these poor practices” by PTTEP, he told lawmakers in Canberra.  The review of PTTEP’s approach to safety after the 2009
incident “will be a central part of my consideration as to
whether to issue a ‘show cause’ notice which might lead to
cancellation of PTTEP’s petroleum titles,” the minister said.  Seven Permits  Thailand’s biggest oil and gas explorer operates seven
drilling permits off Australia and has five production licenses,
he said.  Australia will expand the powers of the  National Offshore
Petroleum Safety Authority  under a stronger regulatory system
set to take effect in 2012, Ferguson said. A single agency
should be responsible for safety, oil well operations and the
environment, rather than allowing potential differences to
develop among regulators, according to the minister.  While the reforms announced today are “a very good step,”
an authority with greater powers doesn’t ensure regulation will
improve, Jessica Meeuwig, a professor at the University of
Western Australia, said by phone.  “Before we explore, we should have a basic understanding
of the marine environment in those areas,” she said. “You need
to balance that offshore oil and gas development with high
levels of protection” and the establishment of marine
sanctuaries.  Ferguson said halting drilling, “putting the nation’s
energy security, jobs and the economy at risk does nothing
toward” achieving the safety goals outlined today. The
government earlier this year offered 31 exploration areas in
waters off Australia, inviting companies to bid for permits.  No Blowouts  Explorers drilled 1,500 wells off Australia in the 25 years
before the Montara spill without any blowouts,  the Australian
Petroleum Production & Exploration Association  has said.  The cost of clean-up, drilling a relief well and repairs at
Montara is about $319 million, Ferguson said today, citing the
Thai company.  He received the results of the inquiry -- led by former
Secretary of the Environment Department David Borthwick -- in
June. The minister said he wanted to ensure making it public
wouldn’t prejudice any investigations into possible criminal or
civil offenses.  The Bangkok-based explorer estimated as much as 400 barrels
of oil a day leaked into the Timor Sea between Aug. 21 and Nov.
3 last year, potentially totaling 30,000 barrels.  The Montara oil leak was caused by the failure of the
well’s “control barrier,” the report released today shows. The
inquiry found PTTEP’s Australasia unit “did not observe
sensible oilfield practices,” Ferguson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 