-- Autonomy Shares Declines as Much as 9.2 Percent on Acquisition Plan, Talks
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2010-11-24T18:06:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/autonomy-shares-declines-as-much-as-9-2-percent-on-acquisition-plan-talks.html
Autonomy Corp. , the U.K.’s second-
largest software company, is considering an “additional
opportunity” as part of its acquisition talks. The shares fell
5.9 percent in London trading.  “Autonomy has for the past several months been working on
a specific acquisition,” the Cambridge, England-based company
said today in a statement. “This work is ongoing. Recent
developments within these talks have given rise to an additional
opportunity that warrants further examination.”  One interpretation of the statement may be that “Autonomy
was acquiring a subsidiary or part of an entity and has now
expanded the scope which could now delay the process,” Deutsche
Bank AG analyst  Marc Geall  said. “The stock is reacting as if a
deal is not going to happen. However, this is not what the
statement is saying.”  The company said today the acquisition process would take
longer than initially planned after saying last month it would
announce a purchase this fall. Autonomy raised 500 million
pounds ($789 million) by selling convertible bonds in April.  “It is unfortunate that management had boxed itself into
defining a specific deadline for announcing a deal,” Deutsche
Banks’s Geall said, adding that the prospect of the deal had
bolstered Autonomy shares this year. “We would prefer Autonomy
to do what is right for the business rather than a knee jerk
deal.” Geall reiterated his “hold” rating on the stock.  The shares fell as much as 9.2 percent to 1,227 pence in
intraday trading, and closed at 1,271 pence at 4:30 p.m.  Similar to Previous Acquisitions  A purchase will be out of the “standard Autonomy
playbook” and similar to previous acquisitions including Verity
Inc., Chief Executive Officer  Mike Lynch  said last month.
Autonomy acquired rival Verity in 2005 for $331 million to add
clients in North America.  Lynch has said the company is seeking acquisitions to
“defend” its market share, rather than buying revenue growth.
“We’re looking for situations whereby when we do it, we create
more and more defensive walls,” he said in an interview on July
22.  Autonomy Corp.  said on Oct. 19 that analyst estimates for
earnings per share in 2011 may increase after demand for its
products rose and it closed some pending deals.  The company has customers including the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, the U.K Houses of Parliament, Europe’s
largest defense company BAE Systems Plc and carmaker Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG.  Sage Group Plc is the U.K.’s largest software maker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 