-- Tax-Exempt Securities Extend Rally as Investors Seek Safety: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l   a n d   A l e x a n d r a   H a r r i s
-- 2010-11-24T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/tax-exempt-securities-extend-rally-as-investors-seek-safety-muni-credit.html
Top-rated, tax-exempt securities had
their biggest rally since July as investors sought the perceived
safety of municipal debt amid concern that Europe’s debt crisis
will spread and after North Korea shelled a South Korean island.  The  premium  investors demand to hold Spanish government
bonds over German counterparts jumped as Ireland sought aid to
save its banking system. South Korea scrambled jet fighters and
returned fire after North Korea shelled a border island.  Tax-exempt rates declined after the biggest supply surplus
in more than a year drove record yield increases last week. This
week’s reduced volume, coupled with investor desire for less
risk, strengthened the rally, said  Justin Hoogendoorn , a bond
strategist at BMO Capital Markets in Chicago.  “Supply was impacting levels,” Hoogendoorn said.
“European sovereign debt widening out and the Korean conflict,
that’s the main impetus.”  Defaults for investment-grade municipal securities averaged
0.03 percent from 1970 through 2009, compared with 0.97 percent
for similar corporate issues, Moody’s Investors Service said in
February.  Five-year AAA municipal yields declined about 5 basis
points to  1.35 percent  yesterday, the most since July 22,
according to a Bloomberg Valuation index. Yields, which move
inversely to prices, fell at every maturity, BVAL benchmark
indexes show. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Slow Week  States and municipalities planned to sell about $5.7
billion in debt this week, the  least  since Sept. 10, Bloomberg
data show. Trading is shortened to four days because of the U.S.
holiday of Thanksgiving tomorrow.  “Being the holiday season, as volumes shrink it won’t take
much to see some volatility on the long end of the yield
curve,” said  Matt Dalton , who oversees $450 million as chief
executive officer of Belle Haven Investments Inc. in White
Plains, New York.  Yields on debt due in 2040 this week have had the biggest
two-day fall since Aug. 19,  dropping 13 basis points  to 4.36
percent yesterday, according to a 30-year BVAL benchmark index.
Last week, the gauge rose 25 basis points.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Build America
Bonds instead of 30-year Treasuries  reached 191 basis points  on
Nov. 22 as U.S. government debt rallied.  Build Americas  Build Americas, which include a 35 percent federal subsidy
on interest costs, are set to expire at year-end. More than $169
billion of the bonds have been sold since April 2009, when the
program began under President  Barack Obama ’s economic
stimulus.  This week’s rally is unlikely to continue as municipal
sales pick up again, Hoogendoorn said. About $12 billion in
offerings are slated next week, Bloomberg data show.  “We expect a couple weeks of heavy supply, which will put
upward pressure on yields,” he said. “This week is a bit of
relief from that.”  Following are descriptions of pending sales of U.S.
municipal debt:  ILLINOIS , which shares Moody’s lowest state credit rating
with California, will sell $1.46 billion in tobacco revenue
settlement bonds through the Railsplitter Tobacco Settlement
Authority, an entity established to issue the bonds, as early as
next week. The bonds, backed by payments from a 1998 settlement
with tobacco companies, will be used to pay bills and balance
its budget. The state has been the recipient of $3.3 billion of
tobacco settlement payments, according to the offering
statement. Underwriters led by Citigroup Inc. will market the
issue. (Updated Nov. 24)  PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK AND NEW JERSEY, which owns the
World Trade Center site in addition to operating Newark Liberty
International, John F. Kennedy International and LaGuardia
airports, will sell $840 million in tax-exempt bonds as early as
next week. The issue will fund expansion of JFK’s Terminal Four,
according to a Fitch Ratings report. Citigroup will market the
issue, which is rated Baa3 by Moody’s and BBB- by S&P, both one
level above junk, and BB by Fitch, second-highest speculative
grade. (Updated Nov. 24)  CHICAGO, the third biggest U.S. city by population, plans
to sell $804 million in tax-exempt and taxable general
obligation bonds, including $214 million in Build America Bonds.
The securities will refinance existing debt and fund street,
sidewalk and gutter improvements, demolition of dilapidated
buildings and contributions to the city’s pension funds. Chicago
postponed the sale from mid-November for more favorable
borrowing costs. Underwriters led by Loop Capital Markets LLC
will market the issue, rated Aa3 by Moody’s, fourth-highest.
(Added Nov. 24)  AMERICAN MUNICIPAL POWER INC. , a Columbus, Ohio-based
supplier to public electric systems, will sell $667 million in
revenue-backed tax-exempt and taxable bonds, including $605
million in Build America Bonds. The issue will finance a 105-
megawatt hydroelectric power plant at an existing dam on the
Ohio River, according to an S&P report. Underwriters led by
Wells Fargo will market the securities, which are rated A,
sixth-highest, by S&P. (Added Nov. 24)  LOS ANGELES DEPARTMENT OF WATER & POWER, the largest U.S.
municipal utility, plans to sell $493 million in taxable Build
America Bonds as early as next week. The securities, backed by
water system revenue, will fund ongoing capital improvements,
according to a Fitch report. JPMorgan Chase & Co. will lead the
marketing of the issue, which Fitch rates AA+, second-highest.
(Added Nov. 24)  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net ;
 Alexandra Harris  in New York at 
 aharris48@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  