-- Axel Springer Wins New Court Hearing on 2005 Bid for ProSiebenSat.1 Media
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2010-11-24T17:29:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/axel-springer-wins-new-hearing-on-media-agency-pro7-merger-veto.html
Axel Springer AG  won a court ruling
giving it a new hearing on its challenge to a media regulator’s
veto of the company’s 2005 takeover bid for broadcaster
 ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG .  The Federal Administrative Court in Leipzig, Germany, ruled
today that a lower court shouldn’t have dismissed the Axel
Springer challenge on procedural grounds because the merger had
been abandoned while the case was pending. The lower court must
now review the regulator’s findings on the concentration of
media in fewer hands.  Springer has “a continuing interest in a ruling on the
merits,” the court said. “Because of the veto, the plaintiff
runs the risk of not being contemplated as a serious negotiation
partner by a seller in a possible future takeover.”  Axel Springer, Europe’s largest newspaper publisher, seeks
to overturn the  Bavarian broadcasting regulator ’s decision, one
of the obstacles to the planned 4.2 billion-euro ($5.6 billion)
deal that was abandoned after the Federal Cartel Office,
Germany’s antitrust regulator, said it may harm competition.  Shares  of the company rose 4.9 euros, or 4.6 percent, to
112.25 euros at 5:35 p.m. in Frankfurt trading.  Axel Springer is pleased with the decision and is awaiting
the new lower court ruling with great interest,  Christian Garrels , a spokesman for the Berlin-based company, said in an e-
mailed statement.  Antitrust Ruling  Axel Springer in June lost a top court bid to overturn the
related antitrust regulator’s decision. Axel Springer has said
that it is pursuing theses cases to get clearance about its
merger possibilities in the future.  The Leipzig court today said that the lower will have to
take into account that the media regulator has a leeway in
ruling on the clearance which judges can only review to a
limited extent.  After Springer dropped its bid,  Kohlberg Kravis Roberts &
Co.  and Permira LLP bought control of ProSiebenSat1 and combined
it with SBS Broadcasting to create Europe’s second-biggest
broadcaster.  Today’s case is BVerwG, 6 C 16.09.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karin Matussek  in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons in London at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 