-- Baltic Economic Growth to Reach 4.5% as Austerity Aids Rebound, SEB Says
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2010-11-24T10:24:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/baltic-economic-growth-to-reach-4-5-as-austerity-aids-rebound-seb-says.html
Economic growth in the Baltic
economies will reach 4.5 percent by 2012 as record austerity
measures help Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia to benefit from a
rebound in exports, the region’s second largest bank SEB AB said.  “A gradual export-led recovery is continuing after a
period of extreme downturn,” the Stockholm-based bank said in a
report published today, raising an earlier forecast for the
region. “But also following a successful internal devaluation
policy.”  The Baltic economies rode property booms after their 2004
accession to the European Union that burst as the global
financial crisis cut off investment and credit flows. The
economy of Latvia, which sought a European Union, International
Monetary Fund bailout in 2008 to stay afloat, contracted 18
percent last year, after the government forced through record
wage cuts needed to keep exports competitive.  “Capital spending and consumption are now also slowly
starting to recuperate, sustained by continued low interest
rates and some improvement in real disposable household
income,” SEB said.  Estonia, due to adopt the euro in January, will see its
economy expand 2.5 percent this year, compared with an October
forecast for 2.3 percent, SEB said. Latvia’s economy will
contract 0.3 percent compared with an earlier forecast for a 1.5
percent decline, it said.  The Baltic economies will on average expand 4 percent in
2011, following 0.9 percent growth this year, SEB estimates. The
region’s expansion rates next year and in 2012 will exceed
growth in the Nordic countries and also outperform the U.S. and
the euro area, according to SEB. Baltic growth will also outpace
the average for the members of the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development, SEB estimates.  Latvia and Lithuania will join the single currency in 2014,
their governments estimate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ott Ummelas  in Helsinki at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  