-- Bank of Thailand Monitoring Currency, May Impose More Controls as Needed
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2010-11-24T08:57:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/bank-of-thailand-monitoring-currency-may-impose-more-controls-as-needed.html
Thailand is prepared to impose
additional measures to stem speculation should the baht
appreciate more quickly than the currencies of its Asian trading
partners, central bank Governor  Prasarn Trairatvorakul  said.  “The best way for us is to have a variety of policy tools,
and then be able to use the mixture of them in a good proportion,
hopefully at a good time too, and retain some flexibility to
adapt the combination and degree,” Prasarn said in Bangkok,
noting that he sees no immediate need to impose new measures.  Emerging countries from Asia to Latin America have taken
steps to stem gains in their currencies that may make their
goods more expensive relative to their competitors’. The baht
has surged more than 10 percent against the dollar this year,
the biggest gainer in Asia outside Japan, threatening exports by
companies including General Motors Co. and Siam Cement Pcl.  The  Bank of Thailand  has additional tools it could use,
Prasarn said. He said these could include a tax on financial
transactions, sometimes termed a Tobin tax after  James Tobin ,
the Nobel Prize-winning U.S. economist who first suggested the
idea in 1971.  “We liberalized the outflow, we reintroduced withholding
tax on capital gains for foreign investment, but not yet to the
degree of imposing the so-called Tobin tax,” Prasarn said in a
media briefing today. “Logically you have to keep these policy
tools in your pocket, but whether to use it is another matter.”  ‘Every Tool’  Pressure on the baht to rise has eased since the currency
reached a 13-year high this month as concern European nations
will struggle to pay their debt encouraged investors to seek
safety in the dollar, cutting demand for emerging-market assets.
The baht has weakened 1.6 percent since Nov. 10.  “Central bankers have to keep every tool on the table at
all times,” said  Usara Wilaipich , a Bangkok-based economist at
Standard Chartered Plc. “But when and how they will use them
depends on market conditions. The fear about additional measures
will also help cap movements in the market.”  Investors are pouring funds into Asia, where growth and
interest rates are higher than those of major economies such as
the U.S. and Japan. Stock markets in India, South Korea, Taiwan
and Thailand have attracted more than $53 billion from foreign
institutional investors this year.  Asia’s developing economies will expand 9.4 percent in 2010,
compared with 2.7 percent in advanced countries, the
International Monetary Fund forecast in October.  Interest Rate ‘Dilemma’  Thailand’s benchmark  interest rate  is 1.75 percent,
compared with near-zero rates in Japan and the U.S.,
contributing to an inflow of net $7.8 billion into the local
bonds in the first 10 months of this year, according to data
from the  Thai Bond Market Association .  “There’s a dilemma here,” Prasarn said. “The more you
increase the rate, the more you attract. It’s like giving our
benefits to these undeserved investors.”  The Bank of Thailand will maintain a “flexible” monetary
policy as it weighs the threat of a weakening global economy
against the inflation risk at its meeting on Dec. 1, Prasarn
said. Thailand kept its  benchmark interest rate  at 1.75 percent
in October after raising it in July and August.  To curb appreciation pressure on the baht from the capital
inflows, the government last month removed a 15 percent tax
exemption for foreigners on income from domestic bonds.  “No country will be successful in fixing its rate,” Thai
Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  told reporters today, ruling
out a fixed exchange rate. “We can only slow the foreign-
exchange movement at most.”  Indonesia, Brazil  Indonesia is studying options to manage capital inflows,
including the possibility of taxing such funds,  Agus Suprijanto ,
acting head of fiscal policy at the Finance Ministry, said last
week. Brazil tripled a tax foreigners must pay to invest in
fixed-income securities last month.  “One important criteria we use is to look at the trade-
weighted exchange rate movement compared with our trading
competitors,” Prasarn said. That rate “is still, in a way,
manageable,” he said.  Thai  export  growth slowed to 15.7 percent in October, the
slowest pace in a year, a report showed last week. Gross
domestic product increased 6.7 percent in the three months
through September from a year earlier, after growing 9.2 percent
in the second quarter, the government said this week.  Foreign Reserves  Seasonally-adjusted GDP, which contracted for a second
consecutive quarter, may shrink again in the final three months
of 2010 because of the global growth slowdown, the baht’s
strength and the impact of floods on the local economy,
 Kasikornbank Pcl’s  research unit said Nov. 22.  Thailand has begun diversifying its foreign reserves away
from the weakening dollar, Prasarn said. The country’s foreign
reserves increased to $171.7 billion as of Nov. 12 from $137.8
billion as of Dec. 25, 2009, according to central bank data.  “We already started that exercise for quite some time,”
he said. “You have renminbi, and you’d like to be able to
invest. The question lies in how much the Chinese government
will allow other people to do.”  China requires foreign investors to obtain a qualified
foreign institutional investor license to buy stocks and bonds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yumi Teso  in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
 Suttinee Yuvejwattana  in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  