-- Bank of Ireland Falls on Concern State May Take Majority Stake in Bailout
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2010-11-24T17:55:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/bank-of-ireland-slides-on-concern-state-may-take-majority-stake.html
Bank of Ireland Plc , Ireland’s
largest bank, plunged for a third day as the government prepared
to inject more capital, a step that may make it the fifth lender
to fall under majority state control in less than two years.  Bank of Ireland fell 11 percent to 22.6 cents in Dublin,
extending its 38 percent drop over the past two days.  Allied
Irish Banks Plc , the nation’s second-largest lender, rose 3
percent to 34 cents, reversing earlier losses. Irish Life &
Permanent Group Holdings Plc, the only domestic bank to avoid a
bailout, tumbled 16 percent to 63 cents.  Ireland’s government will seek to raise the core Tier 1
capital levels of its banks to between 10.5 percent and 12
percent, up from the central bank’s 8 percent target, two people
familiar with the situation said yesterday. The government’s
stake in Bank of Ireland may rise to more than 50 percent after
the latest round of capital injections, said the people, who
declined to be identified as the plan hasn’t been completed.  Bank of Ireland would need about 3.2 billion euros ($4.3
billion) of additional capital to bring its core Tier 1 ratio to
12 percent,  Emer Lang , an analyst with Dublin-based securities
firm Davy, wrote in a note to clients today. “Assuming the
entire incremental requirement of 3.2 billion euros had to come
from government, we estimate its stake would rise to 79
percent,” he said.  Escalating Costs  Ireland’s banking crisis forced the government to seek a
bailout from the European Union and International Monetary Fund
on Nov. 21, after loan impairments surged following the collapse
of the country’s decade-long real estate boom in 2008. That
year, the government pledged to back most liabilities, including
all deposits in Irish banks, a promise that led it to inject 33
billion euros to support the lenders.  As loan losses climbed, the government put the cost of the
rescue at as much as 50 billion euros in September this year,
fueling investor doubts that Ireland could afford the rescue.
This figure is now set to increase again.  EU policy makers must show “meaningful actions” to head
off a “spreading disaster” in the euro region, Pacific
Investment Management Co. chief executive officer  Mohamed El- Erian  wrote in an article for the Financial Times today.  The cost of protecting against defaults on senior notes of
European banks is soaring on speculation bondholders will be
forced to take losses as governments try to share the burden of
taxpayer-funded bailouts. The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of
credit-default swaps on senior debt rose 12.5 basis points, or
0.125 percentage point, to 163.5 basis points, the biggest
increase since June. Contracts on Portugal’s Banco Espirito
Santo SA are at a record, and Spain’s Banco Santander SA are at
the highest level in five months today.  ‘Stress Test Irrelevant’  “The Irish crisis has basically made the summer banking
stress test irrelevant: none of the Irish banks failed it,”
Societe Generale SA analysts led by  Vincent Chaigneau  wrote in a
report to clients today. “On that basis, investors are
reluctant to trust claims that Portugal’s and Spain’s banks are
as “different” as politicians want us to believe.”  Bank of Ireland completed a 2.9 billion-euro fundraising in
June that gave the government a 36 percent stake in the lender.
The state is also preparing to take a majority holding in Allied
Irish by the end of the year. The government may end up owning
99.9 percent of Allied Irish, Dublin-based RTE said on Nov. 23.  ‘Banking Crisis’  Ireland is getting “uncomfortably close to a devastating
banking crisis that would derail growth, employment and wealth
creation for a whole generation,”  El-Erian  wrote in the
Financial Times. Allied Irish said Nov. 19 that deposits have
dropped by about 13 billion euros -- or 17 percent -- since the
start of the year.  The country’s bailout may total about 85 billion euros.
Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  told parliament in Dublin today that
a package of that size is being discussed, though no final
decision has been taken.  Ireland’s banks face “severe” restructuring requirements
linked to the bailout package, European Commission spokesman
 Amadeu Altafaj  said separately today.  Standard & Poor’s cut Ireland’s debt rating late yesterday
by two steps to A, with a “negative” outlook, as the nation’s
bailout of its banking system is set to boost the government’s
borrowing needs. That downgrade could have a negative impact on
the creditworthiness of the four rated domestically owned Irish
banks, the company said today.  S&P Statement  “The Irish government looks set to borrow over and above
our previous projections to fund further bank capital injections
into Ireland’s troubled banking system,” S&P said in a
statement. Putting the rating on “CreditWatch with negative
implications” reflects risk of a further downgrade if talks on
a European Union-led rescue fail to stanch capital flight, it
said. S&P said it expects a bailout package to “instill
confidence in financial sector liquidity.”  Irish lenders have become increasingly reliant on emergency
European Central Bank funding after being frozen out of
wholesale markets. The amount of ECB loans to the country’s
banks rose 7.3 percent to 130 billion euros in October from the
previous month, Ireland’s Central Bank said on Nov. 1. The data
include both international and domestic banks operating in
Ireland.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  