-- Bankers Rigging Municipal Contract Bids Admit to Cover-Up Lies
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y   a n d   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2010-11-24T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/bankers-rigging-municipal-contract-bids-admit-to-lying-to-cover-up-tracks.html
In an 11th-floor federal courtroom
in  Manhattan  on a gray September afternoon, a banker stood with
a somber face and  admitted  to rigging bids for contracts to
invest bond proceeds and then lying about it -- as part of the
biggest criminal conspiracy in the history of the 198-year-old
municipal finance market.  In the room with cherry-wood-colored paneling, Douglas Campbell, who was once one of  Bank of America Corp .’s most
successful derivatives salesmen, described in spare language how
he had violated the law, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in
its January issue.  “I had conversations prior to the bid with the broker
about who the bidders were going to be and who was going to win
or lose,” Campbell, slim with sandy-blond hair, told U.S.
District Judge William Pauley.  Taxpayers were the victims because, by fixing the bids,
Bank of America, the largest U.S. bank by assets, paid
municipalities less than it would have had there been honest
auctions. In his Sept. 9 court confession, Campbell, 45,
repeatedly told the judge that his illegal actions came at
the expense of the public.  “Kind of a common theme here,” the banker said.  Campbell -- who former co-workers describe as an upbeat
family man with two children -- is cooperating with prosecutors.
He pleaded guilty to antitrust, conspiracy and wire fraud
charges.  Paying Kickbacks  He admitted paying kickbacks to win deals to  CDR Financial
Products Inc. , a Los Angeles-based firm that had been hired by
municipalities to run auctions for investment contracts. He’s
one of seven bankers and brokers who have pleaded guilty to
conspiracy and fraud charges.  Six others, including three CDR executives, have been
indicted and have pleaded not guilty. The investigation is still
under way, according to the Justice Department.  The bankers routinely rigged bids and lied about their
crimes between 1998 and 2005, documents filed in court say.
Following every transaction, the bankers fraudulently signed a
pledge certifying that they had adhered to U.S. Treasury
Department rules barring them from seeing other bids.  “When I participated in this scheme, I knew it was
illegal,” Mark Zaino, a former banker with  UBS AG , told a U.S.
District Court judge in New York in May, when he  pleaded guilty.   Hiding Tracks  These bankers took other steps to hide their tracks.
Campbell used a personal identification number to reach a
bidding agent with  Piper Jaffray Cos . directly on his
BlackBerry, according to court-filed documents. That allowed his
e-mails to stay beyond Bank of America’s view. Bankers routinely
used mobile phones instead of the bank’s tape-recorded telephone
lines, according to the documents.  Campbell left Bank of America in 2002 to work for the
municipal derivatives unit of Piper Jaffray, which he left in
2007.  The U.S. government has scorned  Wall Street  for packaging
and selling subprime mortgages that played a central role in the
longest recession since the Great Depression. Only four bankers
have been criminally indicted; two were convicted, the other two
acquitted.  In rooms in Manhattan federal court, the Justice Department
is having more success establishing that many of the same banks
fleeced taxpayers by investing, at below-market rates, some of
the $400 billion of bond proceeds raised each year. Details of
the scope and depth of this nationwide financial conspiracy are
coming to light almost without notice, as one defendant after
another appears to face justice.  Taxpayers Losing  “There were hundreds of these deals, and taxpayers across
the country are losing out because of it,” says Christopher Taylor, who was executive director of the  Municipal Securities
Rulemaking Board , the national regulator of the bond market,
from 1978 to 2007.  “It was see no evil and hear no evil by everybody
involved,” he says. “It was a conspiracy of silence.”  Municipalities have lost more than $1 billion because of
bid rigging, estimates  Steven Feinstein , a finance professor at
Babson College in Wellesley,  Massachusetts .  “That money, instead of going to citizens, goes to Wall
Street banks,” he says.  Some of the top derivatives traders at the world’s largest
banks stood to gain because their bonuses grew larger as they
won more bids.  Sharing the Revenue  Campbell’s boss, Phil Murphy, signed a contract with the
bank promising him 10 percent of any revenue he amassed in
excess of $9 million, court-filed documents show. The Bank of
America municipal-derivatives group, run by Murphy, captured
$100 million in revenue in 2001, according to former Bank of
America employees familiar with the unit. Campbell alone brought
in at least $20 million that year.  Murphy, who hasn’t been charged, is listed as an unindicted
co-conspirator in Justice Department documents. Now a  financial
adviser  to municipalities, he declined to comment. So did
Campbell, as did Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America
spokeswoman Shirley Norton.  In January 2007, Bank of America reached an amnesty
agreement with the Justice Department’s Antitrust Division. It
voluntarily reported its own illegal activity and agreed to
assist prosecutors. It has provided investigators with
documents, e-mails and tape recordings of phone calls, court
records show.  In return for its continued cooperation, the bank won’t be
prosecuted. Chief Executive Officer Brian Moynihan declined to
comment. Piper Jaffray CEO Andrew Duff declined requests for
comment.  Co-Conspirators  Murphy’s successor, Dean Pinard, and four other former Bank
of America employees are unindicted co-conspirators, according
to a Justice Department list. U.S. prosecutors have also named
unindicted co-conspirators from  Citigroup Inc ., JPMorgan Chase &
Co.,  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc ., Wachovia Corp. and eight
other firms.  The bankers cited as conspirators fixed bids on auctions in
more than 200 deals across the U.S. for so-called guaranteed-
investment contracts, known as GICs, according to Justice
Department documents.  Those contracts hold the proceeds of municipal bond sales
until the money is used. Banks that conspired in the bid rigging
for GICs paid kickbacks to brokers ranging from $4,500 to
$475,000, court-filed documents show.  While a GIC is similar to a certificate of deposit, its
rates aren’t advertised publicly. Instead, towns rely on
advisory firms such as CDR to solicit competing offers.  Treasury Pays, Too  Rigged GIC deals not only deprive local taxpayers of full
investment gains; in some cases, these transactions defraud the
Treasury Department, according to the CDR indictment.  Federal tax law requires that when municipal bond proceeds
earn more than a certain limit, the excess profit should go to
the Treasury. By rigging bids, banks or advisers kept money that
should have gone to the  Internal Revenue Service , according to
the CDR indictment.  Many of the same bankers and advisers who worked together
in the GIC deals had sold to public officials interest-rate
swaps that backfired for taxpayers, according to public records
of the transactions.  Across the U.S. -- from Erie,  Pennsylvania , to Jefferson
County,  Alabama , to  Los Angeles  -- public agencies have paid
more than $4 billion in penalties on these swap deals in the
past decade as lending rates went against them. The swaps are
derivatives designed by banks to keep monthly interest payments
low for municipalities as rates change. During the financial
havoc that began in 2007, the swaps did the opposite, creating
the taxpayer losses.  Hiding Kickbacks  Derivatives are financial contracts used to hedge risks or
for speculation. They’re derived from stocks, bonds, loans,
currencies and commodities, or linked to specific events such as
changes in the weather or interest rates.  Derivatives trading was largely unregulated until last
July, when President Barack Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank
finance reform bill. The law allows government authorities to
write rules on derivatives trading.  Bankers used swap contracts to launder kickbacks to
advisers who rigged the GIC deals, according to the Justice
Department’s indictment of CDR, which has advised local
governments on $55 billion in derivatives and investment
transactions since 2000.  Exotic Pays Better  Bankers paid sham fees to advisers, with the money
disguised as costs for brokering those derivative deals,
according to the guilty plea of former UBS banker Zaino.  “There’s absolutely no doubt that you got paid for the
exotic stuff a whole lot better than you got for the real
conservative, bread-and-butter financings,” says Emily Evans, a
former municipal banker with J.C. Bradford & Co. in Nashville,  Tennessee , who now sits on the city’s Metropolitan Council.  From 1998 to 2002, from rows of narrow desks on the trading
floors in Bank of America’s  Charlotte headquarters , Campbell and
Murphy built the municipal derivatives and GIC business from
scratch, documents in court cases show.  In exchange for financial advisers giving the bank the
inside track for bids on GICs, Campbell pushed Bank of America’s
public-finance bankers to get work for the brokers, according to
his guilty plea. Murphy made similar recommendations, according
to former employees and internal bank e-mails.  Arranging Introductions  Murphy introduced Martin Stallone, managing director of
Pottstown, Pennsylvania-based  Investment Management Advisory
Group , known as Image, to the Bank of America underwriters
handling a bond issue for the Beacon Tradeport Community
Development District in  Florida , according to a Feb. 26, 2002,
e-mail from Murphy. He pressed the bankers to have Image handle
bidding for investing the proceeds set up under the deal.  “Our hope is that Image will be hired by the client to
conduct the competitive bidding,” Murphy wrote.  Image also granted favors to Bank of America. One example
was in Pennsylvania. There, Stallone handed GIC deals to the
bank after soliciting intentionally losing bids from rival firms
to make it appear that there had been competitive bidding,
according to information that Bank of America supplied to the
city of Baltimore, a Sacramento,  California , agency and other
municipalities that are suing Bank of America. The bank provided
the information to the plaintiffs as part of settlement talks.  Murphy brought in $2.2 million in revenue in 2002 just from
derivatives deals tied to bond sales for Biola University, a
Christian university in La Mirada, California, according to Bank
of America e-mails. Campbell also brought in $1.7 million that
year from Rickenbacker Port Authority in Columbus,  Ohio , and
$750,000 on the Beacon deal.  Lucrative Career  The derivatives trade proved lucrative to Murphy, whose pay
swelled more than 10-fold from 1987 to 1998 as he moved up to
become head of the municipal derivatives unit at Bank of
America, documents filed in court show.  Murphy, 52, grew up in  Montville Township , New Jersey, a
bedroom community about 30 miles (48 kilometers) west of  New
York City . His father, Leonard, was a vice president at  Consolidated Edison Inc ., and headed the utility’s operations in
the borough of Staten Island. Murphy’s mother, Carol, was
involved in local Republican politics, serving on Montville’s
council and then as a Morris County legislator for nine years.
From 1993 to February 2001, she served in the state assembly,
according to public records.  Leaving New York  Murphy went to  Syracuse University , where he graduated with
a degree in economics in 1980. He received a Master in Business
Administration from  Fordham University  in 1985. His first job on
Wall Street was selling derivatives at  Toronto-Dominion Bank  in
1987. He quit in 1990, moving to Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp.’s
New York office in the  World Trade Center . That building was
struck by terrorists in 1993, when a truck bomb in the parking
garage of the north tower killed six people.  The incident shook Murphy, according to people who worked
with him, and he looked for a job outside of  New York . He landed
at First Union Corp. in Charlotte. He became one of its top
salesmen, handling interest-rate swaps and other derivatives
contracts, says Steven Kohlhagen, who hired Murphy.  In the mid-1990s, Murphy convinced Kohlhagen, who headed
the First Union’s fixed-income-derivatives unit, to start
selling derivatives to municipalities.  “A lot of the ambitious derivatives guys were always
looking at the next big thing,” says Kohlhagen, who’s now
retired. “Murphy thought it would be an extremely profitable
business.”  $1.2 Million Bonus  Murphy was right. In 1996, he earned a $1 million bonus,
according to documents filed in court. The following year, it
swelled to $1.2 million.  Murphy lobbied Kohlhagen to bring Campbell to First Union,
Kohlhagen says. He says he hired Campbell because of his
knowledge of the brokers who worked in the municipal bond
market. Campbell joined First Union from E.A. Moos & Co., a
local underwriting firm in  New Jersey .  “There’s a whole gray area in the municipal market; that’s
where Doug came from,” Kohlhagen says, referring to the fact
that advisers were unregulated. Campbell worked closely with
Murphy, and the two left for Bank of America together, Kohlhagen
says.  “Doug and Phil were a team,” Kohlhagen says. “I would be
dumbfounded if while they were at Bank of America, Doug did
anything that Phil didn’t know about and approve.”  Murphy agreed to a contract with Bank of America in June
1998 giving him a signing bonus of $325,000 and a guarantee of
at least $1.15 million in eight months. That’s when he was
promised 10 percent of any revenue above $9 million, court
documents show.  Colleagues Reunite  By mid-1999, Murphy and Campbell were joined by two former
First Union colleagues, Jay Saunders and Dean Pinard. Within
three years, the small group made more in revenue for Bank of
America than its corporate derivatives unit. Pinard knew Image
well. After graduating from Villanova University, he went to
work at Wheat First Securities Inc. in Philadelphia with two
bankers who later joined Image, broker registration records
show.  The Bank of America marketers in Charlotte sat so close
that they could hear each other’s conversations, according to
Bank of America internal documents and information provided to
the Baltimore plaintiffs.  The bankers used verbal cues to communicate about bids for
GICs. One would ask whether a bid was a “good fit” to get
information on competing bids from Image, according to the
information Bank of America gave the plaintiffs.  Sometimes Image’s Stallone said Bank of America’s bids were
“aggressive,” or too high, and had to be reworked. At other
times, Stallone asked the banker to bid a specific number,
according to the suit. Stallone and Pinard didn’t return calls
seeking comment.  False Records  After each rigged deal, a banker would sign a false
statement saying the transaction was conducted properly,
Campbell told the federal judge when he pleaded guilty in
September.  “That bidding certificate in these circumstances was
signed either by myself or by somebody else with my knowledge
that it was a fraudulent certificate,” Campbell told the judge.  Even as the Justice Department builds up guilty pleas and
continues its probe, the banks haven’t settled their debt to the
public. “The conspiracy was outrageous,” former municipal
finance regulator Taylor says. “There were hundreds of deals
and that means losses for taxpayers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Neumann at 
 jneumann2@bloomberg.net  