-- Wall Street Banks Seek Exemption From Dodd-Frank on Foreign-Exchange Swaps
-- B y   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t   a n d   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2010-11-24T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/banks-push-u-s-treasury-to-exempt-foreign-exchange-swaps-from-dodd-frank.html
The biggest Wall Street banks are
pushing the U.S. Treasury Department to exclude foreign exchange
derivatives from new regulations, a move that would leave a  $42
trillion market  largely outside of federal oversight.  A  coalition of 20 firms , including  Deutsche Bank AG ,  Bank
of New York Mellon Corp.  and  UBS AG , contends that foreign
exchange is less complex than other derivatives and had no role
in the financial crisis, unlike credit-default swaps that led to
the near-collapse of American International Group Inc.  The  Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul  signed by President
 Barack Obama  in July said that foreign exchange “shall be
considered” the same as other swaps, unless the Treasury
secretary makes a written determination that they are different.
Last week, the banks filed comments asking for the exclusion.  The decision may put Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner 
in a politically difficult spot between the banks, regulators
and Congress. During the legislative debate, his department
sought unsuccessfully to exclude foreign exchange from
regulation over the objections of Commodity Futures Trading
Commission Chairman  Gary Gensler  and several lawmakers who
negotiated the final shape of the bill.  “I urge Treasury not to create a potentially dangerous
loophole,” Senator  Maria Cantwell , a Washington Democrat who
was a leader in the derivatives debate, told Bloomberg News in
a statement. “The security of our economy depends on foreign
exchange derivatives coming under the same transparency and
oversight provisions as the rest of the vast derivatives
market.”  Reducing Risk  The Dodd-Frank law requires most swaps to be traded on an
exchange or on a similar system and then guaranteed by a
clearinghouse, where the parties would be required to post
collateral. Proponents say the system will be more transparent
and help guarantee that the trades can be settled, thus reducing
the risk that excessive speculation or bad deals can threaten
the broader economy.  The banks say that imposing clearing and trading rules on
over-the-counter foreign-exchange swaps could disrupt currency
markets and impede the government’s ability to set monetary
policy.  Derivatives are financial instruments whose value is based
on an underlying security or benchmark, such as a stock option.
Currency swaps are over-the-counter contracts that let investors
lock in future exchange rates or convert funds denominated in
one currency into another. They are used by corporations to
hedge risks and are also traded by investors like hedge funds.  Foreign exchange contracts were the largest source of
trading revenue for banks’ derivatives and cash positions in the
second quarter of 2010, according to the  U.S. Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency . U.S. commercial banks recorded $4.3
billion in revenue on trading of foreign-exchange derivatives.  The ‘Treasury Amendment’  When Congress set up the CFTC in 1974, it specifically cut
foreign-exchange swaps out of the agency’s jurisdiction. The
exclusion was known as the “Treasury Amendment” since it was
proposed by the department to protect what it said were
efficient markets.  “This is the ultimate unregulated market,” said  Bill
Brown , a professor at Duke University School of Law and a former
global co-head of listed derivatives at Morgan Stanley.  The Treasury late last month asked for public comments on
the matter to be filed by Nov. 29, and noted that Geithner
hasn’t decided whether the exclusion is warranted.  The decision will affect a market for foreign-exchange
swaps and forwards that reached $42 trillion in the second half
of this year, according to a Bank for International Settlements
global derivatives survey published Nov. 15.  Ford’s Swaps  Ford Motor Co. used swaps, forwards and option contracts to
hedge against shifts in exchange rates that could have affected
the value of F-Series trucks manufactured in the U.S. and sold
in Mexico and Canada, company Treasurer  Neil Schloss  told
lawmakers in congressional testimony on Nov. 18, 2009.  While 85 percent of foreign exchange transactions involve
the U.S. dollar, the bulk of the market is overseas. The U.K.
has the biggest share at 37 percent; 18 percent of foreign
exchange transactions are handled in the U.S.  In the Nov. 15 letter sent to Treasury, the 20-bank
coalition said making currency derivative traders post margin in
the U.S. -- a requirement for mandatory clearing -- would drive
the remaining domestic market offshore. The letter was filed by
three associations on behalf of 20 banks they termed the
“Global FX Division.”  The companies also noted that almost 90 percent of inter-
dealer foreign exchange trades are already handled by a
settlement bank. Under Dodd-Frank, price and other information
about foreign exchange swaps and forwards would be reported to
new central databases, even if Treasury decides to exclude the
market from clearing and trading rules.  Unions Opposed  “Central banks, particularly the Federal Reserve, actively
oversee the FX market, supervising compliance of industry ‘best
practices’ through safety and soundness reviews and regulation
of banks,” the firms wrote in their letter.  Investor advocates and labor unions have countered the
banks’ arguments, pointing to comments from Gensler after
Treasury excluded foreign exchange in its first proposal on
regulating derivatives in 2009. Within days, the CFTC chairman
fired off a letter to lawmakers arguing that the exemption
threatened to “swallow up the regulation.”  He also said the exclusion could allow dealers to make an
end-run around regulation by creating transactions that appear
as foreign-exchange swaps when they are actually other
derivatives.  “This is on our radar screen and has been on our radar
screen since Chairman Gensler raised questions about it in
August of 2009,” said Heather Slavkin, senior legal and policy
adviser at the  AFL-CIO  labor federation. “We have been trying
to get an explanation as to why you would want to exempt foreign
exchange swaps but haven’t heard anything we find convincing.”  Gensler declined to comment further on the matter.  Timing Unclear  The Treasury won’t say when Geithner will make his decision
and the law doesn’t set any required timeline. The law directs
him to consider a number of factors, including whether mandatory
clearing of the derivatives would create systemic risk, lower
transparency or threaten the financial stability of the U.S.  Congress also asked Geithner to review whether foreign-
exchange swaps are already subject to “materially comparable”
oversight, whether bank regulators provide adequate market
supervision and if the exclusion could be used to evade U.S.
rules.  The legal hurdles Geithner needs to clear, coupled with the
potential political traps, have some outside observers
predicting that the Treasury chief will try to find a middle
ground. One option would be to exempt short-term swaps, such as
those with maturities of under six months, and put longer-term
swaps under the CFTC’s jurisdiction.  ‘Totally Unwatched’  “You’d better believe if you leave the currency markets
totally unwatched they will probably be one of the places that
blow up next,” said Brown, the Duke law professor who says both
the banks and those seeking more oversight have arguments in
their favor.  “The goal here is to find a way of providing the right
amount of regulation of the institutions, and leaving the
currency markets to trade so the markets don’t run offshore,”
Brown said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Schmidt  in Washington at 
 Rschmidt5@bloomberg.net ;
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 