-- `Here Comes the Sun' Is No. 1 Beatles Song After a Week of Sales on ITunes
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2010-11-24T22:12:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/beatles-rank-among-top-itunes-sellers-week-after-going-on-sale.html
Apple Inc.  said digital downloads of
Beatles songs and albums rank among the top sellers on its
iTunes online media store after going on sale last week.  Customers purchased 450,000 albums and 2 million songs
since the group’s music became available Nov. 16 on iTunes,  Tom Neumayr , a spokesman for Cupertino, California-based Apple, said
today.  Apple began offering Beatles songs through iTunes on Nov.
16, ending an almost decade-long stalemate with the  best-selling
group . Albums are priced at $12.99 and individual tracks cost
$1.29. A $149 set of all Beatles albums, including greatest hits
compilations, a documentary and 1964 concert video, ranks No. 33
on iTunes.  “Abbey Road,” originally released in 1969, is the ninth-
most downloaded album on iTunes, according to a  ranking  posted
at Apple’s website. “Here Comes the Sun” is the band’s
biggest-selling track, ranking No. 56 on the iTunes  chart .  The absence of the Beatles has been the highest-profile
hole in the catalog of Apple Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs ’s digital store. The band had kept its focus on albums,
tapes and then compact discs, even as a decline in CD sales sent
artists to the Web. Formed about 50 years ago, the Beatles have
remained a top-seller, with customers buying more than 30
million albums in the last decade, according to Nielsen
SoundScan.  Catalog Owners  Apple’s iTunes is the exclusive digital retailer of Beatles
music into 2011, London-based EMI Group Ltd., the band’s record
company, said last week without providing specific dates. Apple
may spark digital download sales, which slowed as a result of
less spending by consumers ages 35 and older,  Russ Crupnick , an
analyst at NPD Group Inc., said last week.  Ownership of the Beatle’s music catalog rests with various
parties, including surviving band members  Paul McCartney  and
 Ringo Starr , as well as  Yoko Ono  and  Olivia Harrison , the widows
of  John Lennon  and  George Harrison . EMI, Sony Corp. and the
estate of Michael Jackson control some rights.  Copyrights  for some of the Beatles earliest songs will
begin expiring at the end of 2012, 50 years after “Love Me Do”
was released.  Apple, the maker of Macintosh computers and iPod media
players,  rose  $6.07, or 2 percent, to $314.80 at 4:29 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have
 climbed  49 percent this year. Closely held EMI is controlled by
Terra Firma Capital Partners Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andy Fixmer  in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net ; 