-- Bernanke Reviews Fed's Communications Amid Backlash Over Asset Purchases
-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 2010-11-24T05:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/bernanke-reviews-fed-communications-amid-backlash-on-purchases.html
Federal Reserve officials are
undertaking their broadest review of public communications in
three years while confronting backlash from some politicians and
foreign governments over a $600 billion monetary stimulus.  Central bankers are weighing whether Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  should hold regular press conferences and where to draw
the line between confidential policy discussions and officials’
public comments, the Fed said yesterday in minutes of its Nov.
2-3 meeting and an Oct. 15 videoconference held by governors and
regional presidents.  Holding press conferences and setting clearer limits on
officials’ remarks may let Bernanke better communicate his
message on the benefits of a record Fed balance sheet, said  Drew Matus , a former New York Fed staffer. Yields on 10-year
Treasuries have risen since the decision, and the political
assault on the Fed has prompted some economists to speculate
that it may be reluctant to complete or expand the purchases.  “More communication is better from the chairman,” said
Matus, senior economist at UBS Securities LLC in Stamford,
Connecticut. “Whenever the chairman steps back, the void is
filled” by other officials who may confuse investors, Matus
said. “If they do this right, there will be less of this
confusion generated.”  The minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee meeting
showed that a minority of Fed governors and presidents were
skeptical of the additional Treasury purchases, saying they may
have a “limited” effect on the recovery, risk “unwanted”
weakness in the  dollar  and risk a surge of inflation. Most
policy makers favored the move, betting it would reduce interest
rates and boost asset prices, aiding growth and employment.  Unemployment Forecasts  Fed officials also raised their unemployment projections
for the next two years while lowering their 2011 growth
outlooks. Some policy makers increased their long-run jobless-
rate projection, signaling they see some further permanent
effects from the recession on U.S.  unemployment . The median
range rose to 5 percent to 6 percent from 5 percent to 5.3
percent.  U.S. stocks remained lower after the report, with the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index falling 1.4 percent to 1,180.73 at
the 4 p.m. close of trading in New York after fighting broke out
between North and South Korea and amid concern the European debt
crisis would slow global growth. The yield on the benchmark 10-
year note fell three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to
2.78 percent.  Inflation Target  The last broad review of communications in 2006-07 focused
on how to give the public more information on policy objectives.
Before that, Bernanke and some other officials advocated
adopting a numerical inflation target, and others, including
former Vice Chairman  Donald Kohn , said they were more skeptical.
Ultimately the Fed decided to double the frequency of published
economic forecasts to four times a year and add a third year to
its projections.  During the Oct. 15 videoconference, Fed officials discussed
whether to adopt a numerical inflation or price-level objective
and decided to retain the policy of giving policy makers’ long-
run inflation projections, yesterday’s minutes said. Officials
see price increases of 1.6 percent to 2 percent as consistent
with their legislative mandate for stable prices, according to
yesterday’s report.  The issue may get more attention in the coming months. Last
week, two Republicans, Tennessee Senator  Bob Corker  and Indiana
Representative  Mike Pence , held a joint press conference on
their proposal to remove the Fed’s full employment mandate and
focus the central bank on stable prices alone. Corker plans to
introduce legislation next year.  Press Briefings  Officials also discussed Oct. 15 whether it would be
“useful” for Bernanke to “hold occasional press briefings to
provide more detailed information” on the FOMC’s outlook and
decision-making than is included in the post-meeting statement.  Bernanke is the only head of a major central bank who
doesn’t give press conferences to explain actions and
projections. European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
and Bank of Japan Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  each hold one after
every policy meeting, while Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King 
speaks once a quarter.  This year Bernanke has traveled around the country for
several on-the-record, unscripted discussions with screened
audiences, including students in Jacksonville, Florida, on Nov.
5. Still, having press conferences is “tricky” and may not
necessarily work in Bernanke’s favor, said  John Silvia , chief
economist at Wells Fargo Securities LLC in Charlotte, North
Carolina.  Getting Message Across  “It may be more difficult to get the message across,”
said Silvia, a former congressional economist. “Ben Bernanke is
not running for public office and may not be as attuned as a
congressman dealing with questions from the media.”  The FOMC triggered a stock selloff with its statement on
Aug. 10, which investors took as a signal the economy will
falter. Bernanke waited until Aug. 27 to clarify that signal,
saying in a speech that the Fed “will do all that it can” to
keep the recovery going and that the “preconditions” are in
place for improved growth in 2011.  Since Aug. 27, inflation expectations and stock prices have
risen.  The breakeven  rate  for 10-year Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities, the yield difference between the inflation-linked
debt and comparable maturity Treasuries, has risen to 2.1
percentage points from 1.63 percentage points on Aug. 27. The
Standard & Poor’s 500  Index  has climbed 11 percent.  China, Germany  Bernanke’s words have competed for news coverage with
criticism by China and Germany, a letter from 23 people,
including former Republican officials and economists, calling
for a halt to the purchases. Another letter from four top
Republican lawmakers expressed “deep concerns” over the plan.  In the days after this month’s decision to buy more assets,
Bernanke published an op-ed article explaining it in the
Washington Post, discussed it in Jacksonville and defended it
before an audience of current and former Fed officials at a
conference in Jekyll Island, Georgia.  Policy makers offered a range of views on the asset
purchases, dubbed QE2 for the second round of quantitative
easing. Fed Governor  Kevin Warsh  said he was “less optimistic
than some” about the program’s benefits, and many other policy
makers gave speeches or interviews.  “Now is the time to strike if the chairman wants to regain
ground lost,” said  Diane Swonk , chief economist at Mesirow
Financial Inc. in Chicago, which oversees about $44 billion.  ‘Frenzied Pitch’  “Bernanke has to figure out how to put the genie of
communication back into a bottle,” she said. “I doubt we would
see as much backlash to QE2, as legitimate as some of it is, if
the debate hadn’t reached such a frenzied pitch from within the
walls of the Federal Reserve to the public so quickly.”  Bernanke will be in Columbus, Ohio, for a “Conversation on
the Economy” with business leaders on Nov. 30, at the same time
that a House Oversight subcommittee is holding a hearing on the
Fed’s stimulus and potential changes in the central bank’s role.  “At the end of the day it gets to a very basic
philosophical debate about Fed openness,” said  Stephen Stanley ,
a former Richmond Fed researcher who’s chief economist at
Pierpont Securities LLC in Stamford, Connecticut. “We’re
getting a sense of what it means to be a transparent Fed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  