-- Bernanke Goal of Optimal Employment Elusive With Profits Bringing No Jobs
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 2010-11-24T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/bernanke-goal-of-optimal-employment-elusive-with-profits-bringing-no-jobs.html
Not far from where Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  grew up, a revolution inside a  Campbell
Soup Co.  plant explains why U.S. corporations are piling up
profits -- with little need to hire more people.  Workers such as “Big John” Filmore, a 28-year Campbell
veteran, huddle every day with management in situation rooms
before their shifts to find ways to save money for the company.
Rising productivity is helping boost profit margins here in
Maxton, North Carolina, where 858 workers turn out a billion
meals a year, and at most of the 243 non-financial companies in
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index with rising profit margins.  Companies slashed 8.5 million jobs during the worst
recession since the Great Depression, while also slowing capital
investment plans. Campbell, the world’s largest soup maker,
DuPont Co., the third-biggest U.S. chemical maker, and  United
Parcel Service Inc. , the world’s largest package-delivery
business, are asking workers to help save cash by working
smarter with existing technology. A potential cost: Efficiency
gains reduce the chances recession-casualty jobs will come back.  “When the productivity growth comes, then watch out
because that is when companies start not needing so much
labor,”  Edmund Phelps , a Columbia University economist and
Nobel laureate, said in an interview.  Some 142 non-financial companies in the  S&P 500  had
improvements in operating margins of three percentage points or
more from the final three months of 2007, when the previous
expansion peaked, compared with the most recent quarter,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg as of yesterday.  Rising Margins  Among them were Miami-based  Lennar Corp. , the third-largest
U.S. homebuilder,  Discovery Communications Inc. , the owner of
cable television’s Discovery Channel, based in Silver Spring,
Maryland, and Teradyne Inc., a maker of chip testing products in
North Reading, Massachusetts.  Growth in productivity, or output produced in an hour of
work, averaged an annualized 3.4 percent rate in the five
quarters since the 18-month recession ended in June 2009. That is
similar to the 3.7 percent  gain  in the first five quarters
after the 2001-2003 so-called jobless recovery.  The efficiency gains have paid off in corporate profits.
Earnings from continuing operations of companies in the  Standard
and Poor’s 500 Index  on a trailing 12-month basis as of Nov. 10
have rebounded 23 percent since the fourth quarter of 2007.
Sales have declined 9 percent over the same period.  Research by San Francisco Fed Vice President  John Fernald 
and Senior Economist Daniel Wilson shows a striking difference
in the sources of today’s productivity gains from those during
the recovery at the beginning of the decade.  Factor Productivity  Wilson concluded that so-called total factor productivity,
which may capture gains from innovations in the way workers
perform tasks and a more intense use of capital, rose at a 2.9
percent annual rate in this recovery, almost a percentage point
more than in the last recovery. The  data  suggests companies are
using the equipment they have more intensively and
intelligently, Wilson said in an interview.  “There is a big story in why we in the U.S. have been so
innovative,” former Fed Chairman  Alan Greenspan  said in an
interview. “American business for generations has sought ideas
from the shop floor. We learn from everybody in the operation,
not only from the plant hierarchy.”  Phelps says  productivity  growth works in long waves. In
boom times, companies stock up on equipment. In lean times, they
find ways to maximize performance of that equipment.  That’s a headwind for Bernanke, who grew up in Dillon,
South Carolina, about 26 miles (42 kilometers) from the Maxton
plant. The economy’s 3.7 percent annual rate of expansion in the
first quarter was the second-strongest of the recovery so far.  Firing and Hiring  Yet data released Nov. 18 by the Bureau of Labor Statistics
shows that while firing has slowed, hiring hasn’t picked up. Job
gains from new or expanding businesses were 6.1 million in the
first quarter, the lowest quarterly increase since the recession
ended.  Job losses  from closing or shrinking businesses fell to
6.4 million, the smallest on BLS records going back to 1992.  “We’ve seen remarkable productivity gains in the last
year or so in the U.S. economy,” Bernanke told Congress’s Joint
Economic Committee on April 14. “We don’t anticipate
productivity growth will continue at that rate going forward,
but if it does, then that may reduce the number of workers that
firms need to bring back in order to meet demand.”  Bernanke and fellow Fed policy makers launched a $600-
billion second round of Treasury bond purchases November 3 to
boost growth and lower unemployment, which has remained above 9
percent throughout the recovery. The jobless rate held at 9.6
percent in October, a sign that companies still have little need
to absorb workers who need a job.  The Minimum  The economy grew at a 2.5 percent annual rate in the third
quarter. That’s the minimum needed to keep unemployment from
rising further, according to estimates by Fed officials this
month.  U.S. corporations “live in a perpetual state of
recession” because of fierce global competition, said Tom
Schneider, chief executive officer of Washington-based
consultant Restructuring Associates Inc., which helps boost
efficiency at such companies as London and Rotterdam-based
 Unilever , the world’s second-largest consumer-goods maker. They
have “no expectation that this is a short-term blip.”  Unemployment in  Robeson County , which hosts the Maxton
plant, was 11.1 percent in September. The factory sat near a
town center with a dry fountain last month and a clock on the
town hall told the wrong time.  Dave Biegger, Campbell vice president of North America
supply chain, says the reward for workers’ contributions to
efficiency is a stable job and more business.  Broth Line  On a new  Swanson Broth  line at the Maxton plant, equipment
operators, working with the line’s mechanics, have numbered each
gasket to avoid confusion and speed up repairs. They’ve cut
windows into machinery covers so they can see wear on the belts
and replace them before they break, as well as color-coding
valve handles to avoid confusion in settings.  Operating efficiency at the Maxton plant has climbed to 85
percent of potential, up from 75 percent three years ago. A one
percent increase in  plant efficiency  in North America equals a
$3 million gain for the company. Headcount at the plant has
risen to 858 from 812 in 2006, principally because of the new
broth line, said Campbell spokesman  Anthony Sanzio  in Camden,
New Jersey.  The 1.7 million square feet of kettles, cookers and pipes
process 260 million pounds of ingredients such as chicken,
potatoes and carrots every year, turning it into Campbell’s
condensed, Chunky, and Select Harvest soups. The plant floor is
spotless.  Innovation and Savings  To help offset inflation, Campbell must come up with $80
million in annual savings. Even after that, Biegger says, the
company has to find “significant” innovations every year to
keep costs flat to declining.  Campbell workers beat the $80-million goal last year,
reducing costs by $86 million in the U.S. soup, sauce and
beverage businesses, which had  sales  of $3.7 billion in the
fiscal year ending in August.  Biegger’s team is working with Campbell researchers on a
project to reinvent the way the company makes soup. In the past,
Campbell began with unique recipes, differentiating at the
beginning. Now, they start with a common base, such as chicken
broth, and differentiate with seasonings, meat and vegetables.
The process is similar to the way some automakers use the same
chassis for a car and then differentiate with body styles and
features later.  ‘Highest Level’  “We have to collaborate at the highest levels of the
organization right down to the plant floor,” said Biegger, who
built a 20-person team whose sole aim is to find cost
improvements. “You explain, you teach, you coach, and then you
allow the work to evolve through the creativity and commitment
of the team. And then we push ourselves to stretch beyond what
we believe is possible.”  Before every shift, the Campbell staff steps out of the
whine of machinery and the ever-present odor of chicken broth
and huddles with management in 11 situation rooms. Performance
metrics and repair issues are written on whiteboards and teams
discuss how to get fixes done quicker or how to improve a
process.  The daily huddles are about “getting everybody
involved,” said Filmore, who stands six feet four inches (193
centimeters) tall, as he walked out of the kettles of a soup-
blending operation wearing a hair net. “Instead of being told
what to do, we get to tell people about our problems.”  Seafood and Beef  Making  soup  involves constant cleaning and changeover as
production responds to shifting demand for everything from clam
chowder to vegetable beef. Because seafood can be an allergen,
switching from clams to beef can involve more rigorous cleaning.
Filmore helped streamline the production sequence to better fit
cleaning schedules. Once managers saw how much time it saved,
they let operators such as Filmore review all line schedules.  Quarterly earnings reports from other U.S. companies cited
productivity gains similar to Campbell’s.  UPS  in Atlanta began a faster deployment of systems in its
67,000-truck U.S. delivery fleet. Trucks carry devices that
track everything from how many left turns against traffic
drivers had to make to how many times a day they started their
trucks.  Drivers embraced the system, which helps optimize their
routes and deliver more packages per day, while saving 1.4
million gallons of fuel per year when fully operational, said
company spokesman  Norman Black . While the decision to deploy the
system came from management, UPS executives spend time as
drivers and with drivers no matter their ultimate career
destination.  Falling Costs  The company’s third-quarter operating margin increased five
percentage points “due to volume growth, yield gains and
significant productivity improvements,” Chief Financial Officer
 Kurt Kuehn  told investors in an Oct. 21 conference call. The
cost of shipping packages in the U.S. fell 2.5 percent per piece
in the quarter, he said.  About one-third of Wilmington-based  Dupont ’s $1 billion in
cost savings last year came from shop floor employees finding
ways to make the same products more efficiently, said Donald
Wirth, vice president of corporate supply chains and operations.  Production at a Richmond, Virginia, plant that makes Kevlar
pulp, used in automotive brakes, rose 25 percent over the last
six months as operators set up communication boards that focused
teams on solving multiple issues limiting capacity. Wednesday
meetings between operators and managers at a paint plant in
Brazil resulted in a 70 percent capacity gain as production
teams focused on getting batch color right the first time.  ‘A Journey’  “You have to engage the operators and let them take
ownership,” said Wirth. “This is a journey. You don’t just
jump in and expect everybody to start doing it.”  Greenspan, the former Fed chairman, said the companies need
to keep innovating or the current burst of cost-saving will run
its course and profit margins will shrink.  “When markets shut down, and capacity expansion comes to a
halt, companies direct all of their capabilities toward
harvesting untapped cost-saving innovations accumulated during
the previous boom,” said Greenspan, who now works as a  private
consultant  in Washington. “We have been experiencing this
harvesting for a year or so. You have to ask the question: Are
we running out of backlog?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Craig Torres  in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
 Anthony Feld  in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 