-- Jhunjhunwala-Backed Praj Industries Plans Acquisition
-- B y   J a y   S h a n k a r
-- 2010-11-24T04:47:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/billionaire-jhunjhunwala-backed-praj-may-acquire-water-treatment-company.html
Praj Industries  Ltd., a maker of
breweries backed by Indian billionaire  Rakesh Jhunjhunwala ,
plans to buy a water treatment company as growing shortages lead
to greater demand for the life-sustaining fluid.  “We are scouting for good buys,” Chairman  Pramod Chaudhari  said in an e-mail response without giving financial
details as the company is still in the “scouting phase.”  Praj is expanding as global spending on water treatment
rises as the world’s supply of fresh water shrinks, drawn down
by farmers, cities and water-intensive industries. By 2030 India
will face a 50 percent shortfall in water supply, according to a
 report  published in 2009 by a group of organizations including
the World Bank and  Coca-Cola Co .  “An acquisition makes sense as the water treatment
industry is worth $2 billion and growing between 25 and 30
percent,” said  Shailesh Kumar , an analyst with K.R. Choksey
Shares & Securities Pvt. “They have the necessary technology
for water treatment” and Praj has been consciously trying to
diversify away from its main business of making equipment for
alcohol and ethanol plants, he said.  Praj’s  shares , which have declined 31 percent this year,
gained 1.3 percent to 73.05 rupees at 10:11 a.m. in Mumbai. The
benchmark Sensex has gained 13 percent in the period.  Pune-based Praj has orders valued at 6 billion rupees ($131
million) to be completed over the next one year, Chaudhari said.  India’s cabinet in August ordered oil refiners to buy
locally manufactured ethanol at 27 rupees a liter, handing
producers a 26 percent increase over the previous government-set
price. India is likely to produce 2.59 billion liters of ethanol
in the year to March 31 of which 1 billion liters will be made
available for blending with gasoline.  Jhunjhunwala, named by Forbes magazine as the  Warren Buffett  of India, owns about 6.3 percent of Praj Industries,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jay Shankar  in Bangalore at 
 jshankar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell in Mumbai at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  