-- Blavatnik’s JPMorgan Suit to Move Forward After Ruling
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2010-11-24T19:24:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/blavatnik-s-jpmorgan-suit-to-move-forward-after-n-y-appeals-court-ruling.html
Billionaire  Len Blavatnik ’s lawsuit
claiming  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  lost 10 percent of the $1 billion
he had it manage can move forward after a state appeals court
upheld a judge’s ruling that the suit shouldn’t be tossed.  Blavatnik claims JPMorgan, the  second-biggest U.S. bank ,
put twice as much money into risky mortgages as Blavatnik’s
investment guidelines allowed while Chief Executive Officer
 Jamie Dimon  was unloading such investments from the bank’s
books. A panel of the New York appellate court kept the case
alive in a ruling yesterday.  Both sides in January appealed a judge’s December order
that threw out two of Blavatnik’s claims while keeping two
others. The case, which hinges on the definition of an “asset-
backed security,” has begun the information-gathering, or
discovery, phase.  Blavatnik, 53, claims he was damaged by the bank’s
misrepresentations and “there remain questions of fact as to
whether the information defendants provided was incorrect and
whether plaintiff justifiably relied thereon,” a unanimous
panel of the state Supreme Court’s Appellate Division said.  Mary Sedarat , a JPMorgan spokeswoman, declined to comment
on the ruling.  ‘Improper Attempt’  The suit is “an improper attempt” to “use the courts to
collect reimbursement for investment losses that have resulted
from an extraordinary and unprecedented economic crisis that no
one could have anticipated,” New York-based JPMorgan said in
its court papers.  Blavatnik, born in Ukraine, runs New York-based Access
Industries Group, which owns energy, chemical, aluminum, media
and real-estate companies.  He sued JPMorgan in June 2009, claiming the bank lost $98
million of his money.  “We have said from the start that Mr. Blavatnik has a
strong case against JPMorgan,”  Richard I. Werder Jr ., one of
Blavatnik’s lawyers at Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan LLP in
New York, said in an e-mailed statement. “We are obviously
pleased that the appellate court has confirmed that it may
proceed.”  Blavatnik says JPMorgan loaded his Access Industries fund
with subprime and so-called Alt-A mortgages at the same time CEO
Dimon was ridding his bank of such exposure.  JPMorgan said in court papers that the instruments it sold
were different from those in the Access Industries account.  ‘Low Volatility’  The investment objective for Blavatnik’s fixed-income
portfolio that JPMorgan began managing in May 2006 was “to
provide a high level of current income consistent with low
volatility of principal,” according to the guidelines cited in
his complaint.  Justice  Melvin L. Schweitzer  of New York State Supreme
Court in Manhattan threw out Blavatnik’s claims for negligence
and breach of fiduciary duty. He refused to dismiss accusations
of breach of contract and negligent misrepresentation.  Schweitzer limited the contract claim to the question of
whether JPMorgan exceeded the guidelines’ 20 percent cap on
mortgage-backed securities. Those investments eventually topped
46 percent, according to the complaint.  The guidelines listed asset-backed securities separately
from mortgage-backed securities. The bank categorized certain
instruments backed by real-estate collateral, such as home-
equity loans or second-lien mortgages, as asset-backed,
according to the complaint.  Mortgage Securities  Blavatnik argues that the real-estate instruments tagged as
asset-backed are really mortgage securities.  The appeals judges said JPMorgan’s contention that it
categorized assets according to industry practice was a question
of fact and so it would be inappropriate to dismiss the suit at
this stage.  Subprime mortgages are loans made to people with poor
credit scores. Alt-A mortgages are loans made to people with
higher credit scores than subprime borrowers who still don’t
meet underwriting criteria established by government-sponsored
entities such as the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp., or
Freddie Mac.  By November 2007, Access Industries couldn’t withdraw cash
it needed, and by April 2008 the portfolio had lost more than
$106 million, $98 million of which it blames on the residential
real-estate investments, according to the complaint.  Fiduciary Duty  The appellate court said that Schweitzer, the trial judge,
was correct in not dismissing certain counts, such as breach of
fiduciary duty, on the ground that they mimic New York State’s
securities law, the Martin Act.  “In short, there is nothing in the plain language of the
Martin Act, its legislative history or appellate level decisions
in this state that supports defendant’s argument that the act
preempts otherwise validly pleaded common-law causes of
action,” it wrote yesterday in a companion decision, Assured
Guaranty Ltd. v. J.P. Morgan Investment Management Inc., that it
quoted in the Blavatnik ruling.  The case is CMMF LLC v. J.P. Morgan Investment Management
Inc., 601924-09, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thom Weidlich  in New York at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 