-- Boeing Dreamliner Faces `Inevitable' Seventh Delay, Analysts Say
-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2010-11-24T23:48:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/boeing-will-rework-parts-of-787-electrical-system-after-fire.html
Boeing Co.  said it will redesign
part of the software on the 787 Dreamliner’s electrical system
and its power panels after an onboard fire two weeks ago halted
flight tests.  The Dreamliner test fleet remains grounded in the meantime,
and the company expects to complete in the next few weeks a new
schedule for the plane’s certification and delivery, Boeing said
in a statement yesterday.  A stray aluminum washer shorted out a power panel during a
Nov. 9 flight, causing the blaze, said three people familiar
with the matter, who asked not to be identified because the
details hadn’t been released. Boeing said its inquiry concluded
that the fire was “most likely caused by the presence of
foreign debris” that caused a short circuit or electrical arc.  “Minor design changes” will be made to the Dreamliner’s
power panels to ensure that stray materials can’t get inside,
along with updates to the electrical system’s software to
improve power distribution, Boeing said. The 787 is the first
all-electric and composite-plastic  airliner .  The jet is almost three years behind schedule after six
delays as Boeing struggled with new materials, parts shortages,
redesign work and a greater reliance on suppliers. The plane has
been flying since December 2009 in tests toward certification
for passenger service, which Boeing targeted for the first
quarter of 2011.  ‘Inevitable’ Delay  Before the electrical redesign work was reported, analysts
said the plane would be delayed for a seventh time as months of
testing remain before it can be certified for passenger use.  A postponement of as much as six months from the current
delivery target of the first quarter of 2011 is already priced
into Boeing stock, said  Peter Arment , an analyst with Gleacher &
Co. in Greenwich, Connecticut. Jefferies & Co.’s  Howard Rubel  in
New York predicted an extension of less than three months, while
Morgan Stanley’s  Heidi Wood  pegged the second half of 2011 for
the setback with a worst-case scenario of 2012.  “There’s going to be some delay -- it’s inevitable,”
Rubel said. He has a “buy” rating on Boeing shares.  The six Dreamliner test jets have been parked since the
Nov. 9 fire, in which the affected aircraft lost its primary
power and the crew had to evacuate on emergency slides after the
plane landed in Laredo, Texas. Only a few flights were allowed
afterward to get all of the planes back to Boeing’s Seattle hub.  ‘Well Along’  The team Boeing sent to Laredo is “well along” in
preparing to return the damaged plane to Seattle,  Scott Fancher ,
the 787 program chief, said in yesterday’s statement. The
company is developing a plan that it will present to the U.S.
Federal Aviation Administration to enable the rest of the fleet
to start flying again, he said.  The test fleet is based in Seattle, and the planes have to
fly around the world in search of various weather conditions to
pass the FAA’s requirements. With 847 advance orders, the 250-
seat Dreamliner, which has an average list price of $178
million, is Boeing’s best-selling new aircraft.  Even after the jets are flying again, and without a major
redesign, they still need to complete more than 700 hours of an
expected 3,100 hours of  testing  for both engine types. One is
made by General Electric Co. and the other by Rolls-Royce Group
Plc.  Boeing must prove the plane’s extended-operations
capabilities, its fuel-mileage performance, and its function and
reliability, among other tests required by the FAA before the
jet is certified. Boeing originally targeted May 2008 for entry
into service.  Trimming Estimates  In the past week, Arment and others have reduced their
estimates for 2011 deliveries of the Dreamliner. Arment now
expects Boeing to deliver 17 of the jets next year instead of
the 42 he had projected.  The expected drop in deliveries led some analysts to lower
their profit estimates for next year, including a 10 percent cut
by Merrill Lynch’s  Ron Epstein , who now forecasts Boeing will
post earnings of $4.05 a share in 2011. Epstein said he doesn’t
expect the 787 program to turn profitable until 2013, a year
later than his previous prediction.  Boeing is building about two Dreamliners a month now,
storing them around its Everett factory until they’re certified.
The latest schedule called for production to ramp up starting
next year and increase to 10 a month in 2013.  Depending on the length of the delay, which is “all but
assured” and may be substantial, Boeing may have to take a
charge against earnings this quarter, said  Kenneth Herbert , an
analyst with Wedbush Securities in San Francisco. He wrote in a
Nov. 22 note that he expects Boeing to deliver 14 Dreamliners
next year, down from his previous estimate of 22.  Time for Adjustments  Boeing rose $1.81, or 2.8 percent, to $65.41 at 4:15 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday.  The
shares  have dropped 6.8 percent since the day before the fire.  The company may use the opportunity to reassess the full
program and incorporate extra time for other adjustments,
including the faulty horizontal stabilizers that Boeing
machinists are repairing, Herbert and other analysts said.  Boeing in June found gaps in the stabilizers, the small
wings on the tail that were built by a Finmeccanica SpA unit in
Italy. Boeing has had to fill those in with metal and composite
materials.  “Now’s the perfect opportunity, if they know the margin
was already tight because of the stabilizers, to just throw it
all in and get that buffer back,” Herbert said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susanna Ray  in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  