-- Boeing 787 Said to Need Redesign of Electrical Parts After Fire
-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y   a n d   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 2010-11-24T22:35:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/boeing-787-said-to-need-redesign-of-electrical-parts-after-fire.html
Boeing Co.  will have to rework part
of the software on the 787 Dreamliner’s electrical system and
its power panels after an onboard fire two weeks ago halted
flight tests, three people familiar with the matter said.  A stray aluminum washer inside a power panel shorted out
during a Nov. 9 flight, causing the blaze, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because the details haven’t been
released. The 787 test fleet will stay grounded in the meantime,
one of the people said.  The company plans to modify the Dreamliner’s power panels
to make sure stray materials can’t get inside, and will also
change the electrical system’s software to improve power
distribution, two of the people said.  Lori Gunter , a Boeing spokeswoman in Everett, Washington,
where the planes are built, declined to comment.  Seattle television station KING 5 reported earlier today
that a small bit of loose metal caused the fire and that Boeing
would pursue a “relatively minor re-design” of the 787’s
electrical system. The TV station didn’t say where it got the
information.  The 787, the first composite-plastic  airliner , is almost
three years behind schedule after six delays as Boeing struggled
with new materials, parts shortages, redesign work and a greater
reliance on suppliers. The plane has been flying since December
2009 in tests toward certification for passenger service, which
Boeing targeted for the first quarter of 2011.  ‘Inevitable’ Delay  Before the electrical redesign work was reported, analysts
said the plane would be delayed for a seventh time as months of
testing remain before it can be certified for passenger use.  A postponement of as much as six months from the current
delivery target of the first quarter of 2011 is already priced
into Boeing stock, said  Peter Arment , an analyst with Gleacher &
Co. in Greenwich, Connecticut. Jefferies & Co.’s  Howard Rubel  in
New York predicted an extension of less than three months, while
Morgan Stanley’s  Heidi Wood  pegged the second half of 2011 for
the setback with a worst-case scenario of 2012.  “There’s going to be some delay -- it’s inevitable,”
Rubel said yesterday. He has a “buy” rating on Boeing shares.  The six Dreamliner test jets have been parked since the
Nov. 9 fire, in which the affected aircraft lost its primary
power, and the crew had to evacuate on emergency slides after
the plane landed in Texas. Only a few flights were allowed
afterward to get all of the planes back to Boeing’s Seattle hub.  700 Testing Hours  The test fleet is based in Seattle, and the planes have to
fly around the world in search of various weather conditions to
pass requirements by the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration.
With 847 advance orders, the 250-seat Dreamliner, which has an
average list price of $178 million, is Boeing’s best-selling new
aircraft.  Even after the jets are flying again, and without a major
redesign, they still need to complete more than 700 hours of an
expected 3,100 hours of  testing  for both engine types. One is
made by General Electric Co. and the other by Rolls-Royce Group
Plc.  Boeing must prove the plane’s extended-operations
capabilities, its fuel-mileage performance, and its function and
reliability, among other tests required by the U.S. Federal
Aviation Administration before the jet is certified. Boeing
originally targeted May 2008 for entry into service.  In the past week, Arment and others have reduced their
estimates for 2011 deliveries of the Dreamliner. Arment now
expects Boeing to deliver 17 of the jets next year instead of
the 42 he had projected.  Trimming Estimates  The expected drop in deliveries led some analysts to lower
their profit estimates for next year, including a 10 percent cut
by Merrill Lynch’s  Ron Epstein , who now forecasts Boeing will
post earnings of $4.05 a share in 2011. Epstein said he doesn’t
expect the 787 program to turn profitable until 2013, a year
later than his previous prediction.  Boeing is building about two Dreamliners a month now,
storing them around its Everett factory until they’re certified.
The latest schedule called for production to ramp up starting
next year and increase to 10 a month in 2013.  Depending on the length of the delay, which is “all but
assured” and may be substantial, Boeing may have to take a
charge against earnings this quarter, said  Kenneth Herbert , an
analyst with Wedbush Securities in San Francisco. He wrote in a
Nov. 22 note that he expects Boeing to deliver only 14
Dreamliners next year, down from his previous estimate of 22.  ‘Get Buffer Back’  Boeing rose $1.81, or 2.8 percent, to $65.41 at 4:15 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  The shares  have
dropped 6.8 percent since the day before the fire.  The company also may use the opportunity to reassess the
full program and incorporate extra time for other adjustments,
including the faulty horizontal stabilizers that Boeing
machinists are repairing, Herbert and other analysts said.  Boeing in June found gaps in the stabilizers, the small
wings on the tail that were built by a Finmeccanica SpA unit in
Italy. Boeing has had to fill those in with metal and composite
materials.  “Now’s the perfect opportunity, if they know the margin
was already tight because of the stabilizers, to just throw it
all in and get that buffer back,” Herbert said.  Chicago-based Boeing hasn’t provided an update on the probe
since  Nov. 16 . The company shuts down its operations for two
days over the Thanksgiving holiday in the U.S., starting
tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Susanna Ray  in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net ;
 Rachel Layne  in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  