-- Boeing Dreamliner Faces Seventh Delay, Analysts Say
-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2010-11-24T15:11:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/boeing-s-787-faces-inevitable-seventh-delay-after-fire-analysts-project.html
Boeing Co. ’s 787 Dreamliner,
grounded for two weeks because of a fire during a flight, will
be delayed for a seventh time as months of testing remain before
the plane can be certified for passenger use, analysts say.  A postponement of as much as six months from the current
delivery target of the first quarter of 2011 is already priced
into Boeing stock, said  Peter Arment , an analyst with Gleacher &
Co. in Greenwich, Connecticut. Jefferies & Co.’s  Howard Rubel  in
New York predicted an extension of less than three months, while
Morgan Stanley’s  Heidi Wood  pegged the second half of 2011 for
the setback with a worst-case scenario of 2012.  “There’s going to be some delay -- it’s inevitable,”
Rubel said yesterday in an interview. He has a “buy” rating on
Boeing shares.  The six Dreamliner test jets have been parked since the
Nov. 9 fire, with only a few flights allowed to get all of the
planes back to Boeing’s Seattle hub. The aircraft involved in
the incident lost its primary power, and the crew had to
evacuate on emergency slides after it landed in Texas. The 787
already is almost three years late after six previous delays.  Even after the jets are flying again, and without a major
redesign, they still need to complete more than 700 hours of an
expected 3,100 hours of  testing . Boeing must prove the plane’s
extended-operations capabilities, its fuel-mileage performance,
and its function and reliability, among other tests required by
the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration before the jet is
certified. Boeing originally targeted May 2008 for entry into
service.  Trimming Estimates  In the past week, Arment and others have reduced their
estimates for 2011 deliveries of the Dreamliner, the first
composite-plastic, all-electric airliner. Arment now expects
Boeing to deliver just 17 of the jets next year instead of the
42 he had projected.  The expected drop in deliveries led some analysts to lower
their profit estimates for next year, including a 10 percent cut
by Merrill Lynch’s  Ron Epstein , who now forecasts Boeing will
post earnings per share of $4.05 in 2011. Epstein said he
doesn’t expect the 787 program to turn profitable until 2013, a
year later than his previous prediction.  Boeing is building about two Dreamliners a month now,
storing them around its Everett, Washington, factory until
they’re certified. The latest schedule called for production to
ramp up starting next year and increase to 10 a month in 2013.
The company has advance orders for 847 planes, valued at more
than $150 billion, based on the average list price.  ‘Get Buffer Back’  Depending on the length of the delay, which is “all but
assured” and may be substantial, Boeing may have to take a
charge against earnings this quarter, said  Kenneth Herbert , an
analyst with Wedbush Securities in San Francisco. He wrote in a
Nov. 22 note that he expects Boeing to deliver only 14
Dreamliners next year, down from his previous estimate of 22.  Boeing rose $1.49, or 2.3 percent, to $65.09 at 10:01 a.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  The shares  have
dropped about 7 percent since the day before the fire.  The company also may use the opportunity to reassess the
full program and incorporate extra time for other problems,
including the faulty horizontal stabilizers that Boeing
machinists are repairing, Herbert and other analysts said.
Boeing in June found gaps in the stabilizers, the small wings on
the tail that were built by a Finmeccanica SpA unit in Italy.
Boeing has had to fill those in with metal and composite
materials.  “Now’s the perfect opportunity, if they know the margin
was already tight because of the stabilizers, to just throw it
all in and get that buffer back,” Herbert said.  Boeing has said it can’t comment on the Dreamliner’s
delivery schedule until an investigation of the fire is
finished. The Chicago-based company hasn’t provided an update on
the probe since  Nov. 16 . Boeing shuts down its operations for
two days over the Thanksgiving holiday in the U.S., starting
tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susanna Ray  in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net . 