-- Build America Bond Program Likely to Be Extended, Senator Grassley Says
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2010-11-24T17:29:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/build-america-bond-program-is-likely-to-be-extended-senator-grassley-says.html
The Build America Bond program,
which provides federal subsidies to state and local governments
borrowing for construction projects, is likely to be extended
for another year, said a spokeswoman for Senator  Charles Grassley , the top Republican on the Senate Finance Committee.  A bill pending in the Senate would extend the securities,
known as BABs, through 2011 while paring the subsidy to 32
percent of the interest cost from 35 percent. The bill also
includes the extension of tax breaks.  Grassley predicts the program will be extended “given that
BABs is likely to travel with a lot of popular tax provisions,”
Beth Pellett Levine, a spokeswoman for the Iowa Republican, said
today. Also, “BABs has a lot of support among key Democrats in
Congress.”  The BABs program, due to expire at year-end, was created
under President  Barack Obama ’s economic-stimulus program. More
than $169 billion of the taxable securities have been sold since
the first issue in April 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  With Republicans poised to take control of the House in
January, local governments, banks and other advocates of the
program are pressing to have it extended before then. Measures
to keep BABs in place have previously passed the House, only to
stall in the Senate. Republicans including Representative  David Camp , who is line to become chairman of the Ways and Means
Committee, have been critical of Obama’s stimulus program.  Tax-Exempt Market  Speculation that the Build America Bond program would lapse
has weighed on the municipal bond market because of concern that
its demise would boost the amount of money state and local
governments raise with traditional tax-exempt debt. Build
Americas are taxable securities, like corporate bonds, that have
allowed governments to access investors beyond those seeking a
shelter from U.S. income taxes.  An extension would ease those concerns and help bolster the
prices of long-dated, tax-exempt bonds, said  John Hallacy ,
manager of municipal research at Bank of America Merrill Lynch
in New York. Yields on 20-year municipal bonds  jumped  0.48
percentage point to 4.72 percent last week, according to the
Bond Buyer’s index. Yields move inversely to bond prices.  “There’s been a lot of confusion about what’s going to
transpire here,” Hallacy said. “The BABs uncertainty has
definitely contributed to the sour tone we’ve had in the market
in the past few weeks.”  Republican Critic  Grassley, whose comments were reported earlier today in the
Wall Street Journal, has been among those critical of the
subsidized securities program. Last week, he asked congressional
investigators to ascertain how much of the Build America Bond
program is going to Wall Street bank fees.  Build America Bonds are among several matters, including
moves to extend the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts that are also set to
lapse, that Congress will be crafting legislation to address.
Backers have previously said that the program could be tied to
several tax breaks -- as it is in the current bill -- or merged
with one addressing the Bush administration income-tax cuts, a
priority for lawmakers from both parties.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 William Selway  in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  