-- Ireland Leads Euro-Region Bond Declines as Downgrade Stirs Contagion Risk
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2010-11-24T16:26:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/bunds-decline-ahead-of-auction-as-two-year-yields-stay-near-two-week-low.html
Irish bonds led declines by the euro
region’s most indebted members after a two-notch sovereign
downgrade by Standard & Poor’s deepened concern the nation’s
fiscal crisis will spread.  Spanish and Greek securities fell after Ireland’s credit
was lowered to A from AA- by S&P, which cited the mounting cost
of bailing out the nation’s banks. German bonds slid after
demand weakened at a sale of new 10-year debt and stock markets
rose. Portuguese bonds declined as workers walked out in the
nation’s biggest strike for 22 years. Irish bonds stayed lower
after Ireland announced a budget plan to stave off bankruptcy.  “There’s a lot of fear and concern,” said  Michael Leister , a fixed-income analyst at WestLB AG in Dusseldorf,
Germany. “The key issue is if, or by how much, Spain will get
dragged into this. Ireland and Portugal are manageable in terms
of cost. The market is worried that, given the size of Spain,
it’s a different animal.”  Irish 10-year yields jumped 48 basis points to 9.12 percent
at 4:19 p.m. in London. The 5 percent security due October 2020
tumbled 2.52, or 25.20 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,337) face
amount, to 73.85 Portuguese 10-year yields advanced 12 basis
points to 7.18 percent.  Similar-maturity Spanish yields climbed 17 basis points to
5.09 percent, while  German 10-year yields  rose 10 basis points
to 2.65 percent. The difference in yield, or spread, between
Irish and German 10-year yields widened 31 basis points to 617
basis points, according to Bloomberg generic data, while the
Spanish-German spread was one basis point wider at 235 after
reaching a record 249.  Bank Injections  The euro strengthened 0.1 percent to $1.3374, trimming this
week’s drop to 2.2 percent. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  of shares
climbed 1.1 percent. U.S. 10-year Treasury yields gained 11
basis points to 2.88 percent.  Ireland’s government said it will cut spending by about 20
percent and raise taxes over the next four years as talks with
the International Monetary Fund and the European Union over a
bailout of the country near conclusion.  Welfare cuts of 2.8 billion euros and income-tax increases
of 1.9 billion euros are among the steps planned to narrow the
budget deficit to 3 percent of gross domestic product by the end
of 2014. The shortfall will be 12 percent of GDP this year, or
32 percent including a banking rescue.  The EU-IMF rescue package may be about 85 billion euros,
Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  said today.  German Debt Sale  Germany sold about 4.8 billion euros of 2.5 percent bonds
maturing in January 2021 at an average yield of 2.59 percent.
Investors bid for 1.2 times the securities issued, the lowest
so-called bid-to-cover ratio for a 10-year auction since
February 2009.  “The auction in Germany and the strong negative tone in
the U.S. Treasury market helped push up German yields,” said
 Patrick Jacq , a senior fixed-income strategist at BNP Paribas SA
in London. “There’s been some profit taking after yesterday’s
strong rally.”  German bonds also fell as a report showed  business
confidence  in Europe’s largest economy unexpectedly surged to a
record in November. The Munich-based Ifo institute said its
business climate index, based on a survey of 7,000 executives,
increased to 109.3 from 107.7 in October. Economists predicted a
decline to 107.5, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  S&P’s cut leaves Ireland’s debt five steps above Greece,
which has the highest junk, or high-risk, classification.
Ireland may be lowered again, the ratings company said. Moody’s
Investors Service said two days ago that a “multi-notch”
downgrade in Ireland’s credit rating was “most likely” because
the bailout would increase the nation’s debt burden.  Collective Action  “The Irish government looks set to borrow over and above
our previous projections to fund further bank capital injections
into Ireland’s troubled banking system,” S&P said in a
statement late yesterday. The fact the debt may be lowered again
reflects the risk that talks on an EU-led rescue may fail to
staunch capital flight, it said.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  wants buyers of new euro-
region bonds to accept liability clauses starting in 2011, two
years before a revamped crisis-management system kicks in, a
government document shows. The “blanket” introduction of
standardized collective-action clauses for all government bonds
issued in the 16-nation euro region would be “unproblematic”
and should begin next year, according to the Finance Ministry
document, a copy of which was obtained by Bloomberg News.  Bonds of Ireland, Portugal and Greece have slumped since EU
leaders agreed on Oct. 29 to consider Germany’s proposal for a
permanent rescue mechanism as of 2013. The plan would involve
debt restructuring, with losses for private investors in
sovereign bonds.  Banks Plunge  “Day by day, we are getting fresh details of the German
proposal and this is impacting the market today,” said
 Kornelius Purps , a fixed-income strategist at UniCredit SpA in
Munich. “There is little reason to become more optimistic on
the periphery at this point.”  Irish bonds also fell as the government prepared to inject
more capital into Bank of Ireland Plc, the nation’s largest
bank, a step that may make it the fifth lender to fall under
majority state control in less than two years.  Shares in  Bank of Ireland , already 36 percent owned by the
state, fell 9.3 percent in Dublin, after sinking as much as 37
percent.  Allied Irish Banks Plc , the second-largest lender,
which already faces the prospect of more than 90 percent state
ownership, slid as much as 24 percent.  ECB Borrowing  Euro-region banks borrowed 38.2 billion euros from the
European Central Bank in 91-day loans today, double the 19.1
billion-euros expiring. Economists expected them to ask for 29
billion euros, according to the median of eight forecasts in a
Bloomberg News survey.  “The increase is probably due to the fact that Irish,
Portuguese and Greek banks increased their positions, most
likely, in our view, for precautionary reasons because of the
current tough market situation,”  Giuseppe Maraffino , a fixed-
income strategist at Barclays Plc in London, wrote in a research
report today.  Portugal led a jump in the cost of insuring against default
on European sovereign debt, according to traders of credit-
default swaps.  Contracts on Portuguese government bonds were at 481 basis
points, down from 487 yesterday, according to data provider CMA
in London. Swaps on Ireland were little changed at 575, Spain
slipped 3 basis points to 298, and Greece dropped 43 basis
points to 977.  EU policy makers must show “meaningful actions” to head
off a “spreading disaster” in the euro region, said  Mohamed El-Erian , chief executive officer at Pacific Investment
Management Co.  Ireland is getting “uncomfortably close to a devastating
banking crisis that would derail growth, employment and wealth
creation for a whole generation,” El-Erian wrote in an article
for the Financial Times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  