-- Canada Tells Bureaucrats to Cut Back on Booze Amid Spending Restraint Push
-- B y   A l e x a n d r e   D e s l o n g c h a m p s   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2010-11-24T21:48:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/canada-tells-bureaucrats-to-cut-back-on-booze-amid-spending-restraint-push.html
Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s government today  issued directives  to curb spending by
public servants on hospitality, including alcohol.  The new directives, issued by  Stockwell Day , the president
of Canada’s Treasury Board, will restrict spending on alcohol to
situations that are “necessary for the rules for protocol,
diplomacy” and that are “appropriate.” The directives also
call for spending on travel, hospitality and conferences to be
made public and approved by deputy ministers.  Bureaucrats will no longer be allowed to expense alcohol at
events attended only by government employees, Day told reporters
in Ottawa. “Canadians have had to do a significant amount of
belt-tightening themselves as they’ve gone through these last
couple of years and they expect governments to do the same,” he
said.  Day said the new rules are part of the government’s efforts
to erase its deficit. Harper and Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty 
have said erasing the deficit, which the government expects to
total C$165.2 billion ($163.4 billion) over the next five years,
is a priority and they plan to return to a  balanced budget in
2015.  Day cited examples of a C$31,500 reception for less than
300 people and a retirement event for a bureaucrat that cost
more than C$7,200, saying these didn’t send a “good signal.”  “Too much relaxation has allowed for these expenses to
happen,” Day said.  The new directives come into effect on Jan. 1.  The “measures are a smokescreen,”  Michael Ignatieff , the
leader of the opposition Liberal Party, told reporters in
Ottawa. “They’re trying to hide the waste that is at the center
of their policies.”  The government and its agencies have spent C$125.4 million
on hospitality expenses since 2006, the year Harper came into
power, the New Democratic Party said in a statement today.
Bureaucrats incurred some of the expenses at golf clubs and
spas, the NDP also said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Theophilos Argitis  in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 