-- Canada House Prices Drop for First Time in 19 Months, Teranet Index Shows
-- B y   A l e x a n d r e   D e s l o n g c h a m p s
-- 2010-11-24T15:15:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/canada-teranet-house-prices-drop-for-first-time-in-17-months.html
Canadian house prices fell for the
first time in 17 months in September, the  Teranet-National Bank 
Composite House Price Index showed.  Prices fell 1.1 percent during the month, the first decline
since April 2009, according to a report released today by
National Bank Financial. Halifax, Nova Scotia prices fell 2.4
percent, followed by a 2.2 percent drop in Calgary, Alberta and
a 1.6 percent decline in Toronto.  Housing is slowing after the government made mortgage rules
more stringent and Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  warned
about record household debts. The central bank, which raised its
 benchmark lending rate  three times to 1 percent this year,
predicted in October housing will cut 0.2 percentage point to
growth in 2011, after adding 0.6 percentage point this year.  “September’s drop notwithstanding, we do not think that a
significant price correction looms in housing,”  Marc Pinsonneault , a senior economist with National Bank, said in a
note to clients. “This being said, the high indebtedness of
Canadian households and record homeownership rate argues for a
much slower pace of home price appreciation in the coming
years.”  Bank of Canada  data show  five-year fixed mortgage rates
were the near the lowest in more than 50 years last week.  “Moderation in the residential real-estate market is a
good thing, that’s why we tightened up some of the rules this
year on high-ratio mortgages,” Finance Minister Jim Flaherty
told reporters in Ottawa today. “It’s a healthy thing to have
moderation.”  On an  annual basis , prices rose 7.9 percent, the smallest
gain since January, the report said.  The Teranet index has tracked home-price changes in six
Canadian cities -- Halifax, Montreal, Ottawa, Toronto, Calgary
and Vancouver -- since February 2000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 