-- Canadian Firms May Seek Mergers Over IPOs, Canaccord Banker Daviau Says
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2010-11-24T21:12:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/canadian-firms-may-seek-mergers-over-ipos-canaccord-banker-daviau-says.html
Canadian companies may opt for
mergers instead of initial public offerings after some IPOs
slumped this year, said  Daniel Daviau , Canaccord Genuity’s head
of investment banking.  “There’s a lot of risk with IPOs,” Daviau said today in
Toronto at an event hosted by Canada’s Venture Capital & Private
Equity Association. “Of the ones that have been completed,
there’s been some ones with pretty dismal performance.”  Offerings this year including  Athabasca Oil Sands Corp. ,
the country’s largest IPO since 1999, have fallen in value while
others, such as MEG Energy Corp.’s sale, have been cut in size.
Shares of Calgary-based Athabasca have  plunged  27 percent since
they began trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange in April.  Lulu Ltd., a self-publishing company led by Red Hat Inc.
co-founder  Robert Young , postponed its IPO in April, while
Porter Aviation Holdings Inc. delayed its offering in June.  Companies have raised about $5.4 billion in IPOs in Canada
this year, the most since 2006, according to Bloomberg data. At
least 12 offerings have been withdrawn or postponed this year.  “It’s just too risky a strategy right now,” said Daviau,
a managing director at the firm owned by Toronto-based  Canaccord
Financial Inc. , Canada’s largest independent brokerage by
assets. “That drives companies into the natural M&A
alternative.”  Canadian companies have been involved in 1,838 mergers and
acquisitions announced this year valued at $135.8 billion,
according to Bloomberg data. That’s the best year since 2007,
when $332 billion in deals were announced.  Canaccord Genuity ranks 23rd for arranging takeovers
involving Canadian companies, with 17 deals valued at $2.8
billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Doug Alexander  in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 