-- Capital Market Can Overcome Cancun: Michael Liebreich
-- B y   M i c h a e l   L i e b r e i c h
-- 2010-11-29T17:30:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/capital-markets-can-overcome-cancun-s-climate-failures-michael-liebreich.html
((Corrects seventh paragraph in Nov. 25 article to state
investment will be made in developing nations.))  At the end of November the global
climate change fraternity descends on Cancun, Mexico, for the
latest attempt at replacing the Kyoto Protocol, which is set to
expire in 2012. Last year’s United Nations meeting in Copenhagen
ended after two weeks of protests and negotiations with a face-
saving document long on promises but short on details.  At Cancun the challenge will be to turn the Copenhagen
Accord into a binding agreement.  If a deal could not be sealed last December, it will be
even harder this year. Yvo de Boer, the head of the UN Framework
Convention on Climate Change, who did more than anyone to create
the sense of urgency around Copenhagen, has moved on. Gone are
many of those who pushed hardest for an agreement last year,
including Brazil President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva and British
Prime Minister Gordon Brown. Gone, too, is any remaining hope
that the U.S. Congress might take decisive action.  The months since Copenhagen have seen a series of
increasingly bad-tempered preparatory negotiating sessions.
India has demanded that any outcome enshrine Kyoto, which gave
developing countries a free pass on any binding commitments, a
position supported by many of its emerging-market peers. The
U.S. has refused to consider any framework based on Kyoto, which
it feels will cost it jobs. China is investing heavily in clean
energy but has refused to countenance any sort of verification
of actions it is taking. Europe, which is grappling with fiscal
crises, has been reduced to the role of bystander.  Talking Down  Not surprisingly, de Boer’s successor,  Christiana Figueres ,
has spent her first six months on the job talking down
expectations. She has been positioning Cancun as something of a
reboot of the international process, an early step in a long
engagement that might ultimately result in carbon emissions
coming down.  Figueres hopes that after Cancun she will be able to point
to progress on a number of concrete if modest initiatives,
including a program that provides poorer countries with
incentives to curb deforestation and another to speed the
transfer of low-carbon technology to the developing world. There
may also be momentum on the deployment of $30 billion in
funding, earmarked under the Copenhagen Accord, for investment
in the developing world to help it reduce emissions and deal
with the effects of climate change.  Fast Funding  This Fast Start Funding was meant to be the first
installment of a flow of investment to developing nations that
would hit $100 billion a year by 2020. Immediately after
Copenhagen, the UN Secretary General convened an advisory group
to figure out how the $100 billion target could be achieved.
Unfortunately the panel couldn’t agree on its remit. Can the
$100 billion include private funds, or must it be all public
money? Can it include money invested in China?  This uncertainty didn’t stop the committee’s report from
concluding that achieving the $100 billion-a-year goal would be
“challenging but achievable,” as long as the world adopted a
carbon price of at least $20 per metric ton along with taxes on
global aviation and shipping, a position that seemed quixotic
before the U.S. midterm elections and almost delusional after.
To its credit, the panel did not back a Tobin tax on financial
transactions.  Clear Commitment  The irony is that just as the UN negotiations are bogging
down, the commitment of the world powers to act on climate
change is becoming clear. Global investment in clean energy --
renewables, energy efficiency and other technologies to reduce
emissions -- has soared from $46 billion in 2004 to nearly
$200 billion this year, shrugging off the recession to reach a
record. This is mainly private money, responding to a flood of
regulation and government incentives in support of low-carbon
energy or energy efficiency.  More than 90 percent of this investment has taken place in
the developed world or in rapidly emerging economies such as
China and Brazil. The countries that are finding it hard to
secure climate financing are those that have underdeveloped
capital markets and poor records on attracting foreign direct
investment. And therein lies the germ of a solution to the
$100 billion challenge.  Instead of dreaming of a global carbon market or a global
tax on financial transactions or trade, ask yourself this: Under
what terms would you want your pension or tax dollars being
invested in infrastructure development in the world’s poorest
countries? The answer: when it’s not going to disappear.  The Mix  Here is how it might work: Take the $21 billion already
being invested annually in clean energy by multilateral and
national development banks. Increase it by as much as fiscal
constraints will allow. Throw in a sovereign guarantee,
underwritten by the same governments that signed the Copenhagen
Accord and reaffirmed their commitment to fighting climate
change at this month’s G-20 meeting in Seoul.  Mix in some currency hedging to protect investors from
macroeconomic forces beyond their control. Add a sprinkling of
grants to cover the extra cost of clean energy over fossil-based
alternatives (a differential that is shrinking all the time).  Throw in a few export credits and some funding via the
existing carbon markets, stir the mixture, and secure an
investment-grade rating. This is the only way to get the big
pension funds interested and generate cash on the scale
required.  For Western taxpayers to underwrite a sovereign guarantee
on anything like this scale, the acceptance of these cheap
climate funds would need to be conditional on an investment
treaty. Recipient countries must not be allowed to expropriate
the resulting projects. They also would have to commit to
phasing out subsidies to fossil fuels.  Will all developing countries agree to this formula? Almost
certainly not. But who says they need to? To those that do agree
go the funds. To those that don’t, wait and see if there’s a
better deal on offer in the UN process. If not, then this sort
of Coalition of the Committed may be the best way for the world
to move from rhetoric to action.  (This column by  Michael Liebreich , the chief executive
officer of Bloomberg New Energy Finance, appeared in Bloomberg
Businessweek’s Nov. 29 edition. The opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Michael Liebreich  at   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Tim Coulter at   tcoulter@bloomberg.net  