-- Capital Shopping Centres in Talks to Buy Manchester Mall for $1.2 Billion
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2010-11-24T17:51:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/capital-shopping-centres-in-talks-to-buy-manchester-mall-for-1-2-billion.html
Capital Shopping Centres Group Plc ,
the largest U.K. mall owner, is in talks with closely held Peel
Group to buy the Trafford Centre near Manchester in northwest
England for about 750 million pounds ($1.2 billion) in stock.  Capital Shopping would assume 850 million pounds of debt
under the terms of the sale, the London-based company said in a
statement today. The total purchase price would be the highest
ever paid for a British shopping mall. Capital Shopping said it
may sell the equivalent of as much as 9.9 percent of its equity
to investors to help with financing. The stock fell the most in
six months in London trading.  “Strategically, it is the right thing to do, but I don’t
think the market is going to reward that in the short term,”
said  Steve Bramley- Jackson, a real estate analyst at Credit
Suisse Group AG in London with a “neutral”  rating  on the stock.
“It looks very expensive.”  The sale would mark the first time since 1999 that the full
ownership of one of the U.K.’s 10 biggest malls changed hands.
British Land Co. bought the Meadowhall shopping center in
northern England in November 1999 for 1.17 billion pounds in
cash and assumed debt. It sold a 50 percent stake in February
last year for 588 million pounds, of which 170 million pounds
was cash.  Capital Shopping fell 18.1 pence, or 5.1 percent, to 337.4
pence, the biggest decline since May 19 and the lowest price
since Aug. 31. The stock was the second-worst performer in the
benchmark  FTSE 100 Index.   Peel’s Stake  Peel , owned by real estate billionaire  John Whittaker , will
own 19.9 percent of Capital Shopping if the deal goes through,
the statement said. That would make it the  largest investor  in
Capital Shopping. The stake could rise to as much as 24.9
percent if Peel converts bonds received as part of the sale into
shares.  Whittaker will become a non-executive director and deputy
chairman of Capital Shopping, the statement said.  The proposed price, including the assumed debt, would
represent a 3 percent discount to the Trafford Centre’s assessed
value of 1.65 billion pounds as of Nov. 1, Capital Shopping said.
The purchase would hinge on the stock sale, it said.  Capital Shopping already owns four of the U.K.’s 10 biggest
malls, including the Manchester Arndale shopping center, the
ninth-largest.  Trafford , which has 118,776 square meters (1.3
million square feet) of retail space, ranks seventh. It would
bring the total number of U.K. malls owned by the company to 14.  The company would issue about 750 million pounds of equity
to Peel, whose assets also include the Manchester Ship Canal and
a stake in Liverpool’s John Lennon airport, Capital Shopping
said. Peel would invest about 75 million pounds in return for
new shares and convertible bonds. Most of the mall’s debt is in
the form of commercial mortgage-backed securities.  Capital Shopping said it intends to appoint Merrill Lynch,
a unit of Bank of America Corp., and UBS AG to manage the
potential share placing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Woodifield  at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 