-- Caterpillar Raises $150 Million in Hong Kong Sale of Yuan Bonds
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s   a n d   H e n r y   S a n d e r s o n
-- 2010-11-24T17:18:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/caterpillar-sells-yuan-bonds-in-hong-kong-in-second-offering-by-u-s-firm.html
Caterpillar Inc ., the world’s
biggest maker of construction equipment, sold 1 billion yuan
($150 million) of debt in the second Hong Kong bond sale by a
U.S. company in the Chinese currency.  Caterpillar, based in Peoria, Illinois, sold 2 percent
notes due in December 2012 through its Caterpillar Financial
Services Corp. unit, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. managed the sale, said a person
familiar with the offering who declined to be identified because
the marketing was private.  The transaction followed McDonald’s Corp.’s 200 million
yuan of three-year notes in September, the first sale in the
currency by a foreign company in the former British colony,
Bloomberg data show. Wal-Mart Stores Inc. said in March it was
considering selling bonds in yuan and United Co. Rusal, the
world’s largest aluminum producer, said in September that
officials met bankers to learn about the market.  “There’s little doubt these deals will do well so long as
the borrower’s a reasonable name,”  Vijay Chander , Hong Kong-
based head of credit strategy at Standard Chartered Plc, said in
a phone interview. “Any kind of spread over the renminbi
deposit rate will attract a lot of investor interest,” he said,
referring to the yuan by its other name.  Connie Ling , a Hong Kong-based Goldman Sachs spokeswoman,
declined to comment.  Jim Dugan , a Caterpillar spokesman, didn’t
immediately return a telephone call seeking comment.  China is allowing greater use of its currency in global
trade to reduce reliance on the dollar, and opened the yuan bond
market in Hong Kong to overseas firms in February. The Ministry
of Finance announced plans to sell 8 billion yuan of securities
in the city on Nov. 30.  ‘Huge Amounts’  HSBC Holdings Plc, which controls two of Hong Kong’s three
biggest banks, offers 0.71 percent interest on deposits of
500,000 yuan or less placed with it for 12 months.  “Most of the banks in Hong Kong have huge amounts of
renminbi deposits,” said  Chris Tang , a credit analyst with
China Construction Bank Corp. in Hong Kong. There are few
“channels to invest in and limited issuers,” he said.  Yields on yuan bonds sold in Hong Kong have fallen this
month, with Bank of China Ltd.’s 1 billion yuan of 3.4 percent
notes due September 2011 declining the most with a drop of 31
basis points, according to Bloomberg data. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  Caterpillar has permission from Chinese authorities to
transfer proceeds from its yuan bonds to the mainland, the
Financial Times reported today, without saying where it got the
information. It will use the money to support a leasing unit,
the FT said.  ‘Winning’  Caterpillar will build a manufacturing plant in Tianjin to
increase its worldwide capacity for large-engine production, the
company said on Nov. 19. “Winning” in China is the top
priority, Chief Executive Officer  Doug Oberhelman  said on a Nov.
15 call with analysts.  Investor demand for yuan-denominated bonds is strong, in
part on expectations the currency will continue to appreciate
against the dollar, according to Standard Chartered’s Chander.  Yuan deposits at Hong Kong banks more than doubled to a
record 149 billion yuan in the six months ended Sept. 30, Hong
Kong Monetary Authority data show, while the currency has risen
2.7 percent since a two-year dollar peg ended on June 19.  Hong Kong’s yuan bond market “is set to grow in leaps and
bounds, however the one critical missing ingredient at the
moment is domestic liquidity,” Chander said. “People tend to
buy and hold here, so there isn’t as much secondary market
trading as perhaps the market makers would like.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Katrina Nicholas  at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net 
 Henry Sanderson  in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  