-- Centerbridge Capital Said to Seek $1 Billion for Loan Servicer Green Tree
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i ,   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-11-24T07:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/centerbridge-said-to-seek-1-billion-for-green-tree-servicing.html
Centerbridge Capital Partners LLC  is
seeking to sell Green Tree Servicing LLC, the loan servicer it
acquired in 2007, for about $1 billion, according to two people
with knowledge of the matter.  Morgan Stanley is running the sale and has contacted
private-equity firms and potential strategic buyers about
purchasing Green Tree, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the process is private. Green Tree has about
$175 million of annual earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and appreciation, the people said.  Green Tree, based in St. Paul, Minnesota, has increased the
volume of loans it services by about 50 percent since a
Centerbridge-led group acquired it from Fortress Investment
Group LLC and Cerberus Capital Management LP, one of the people
said. The company had $34 billion in servicing assets under
management in 2009.  “Scale is the name of the game,” said  Matthew Anderson ,
managing director at Foresight Analytics, an Oakland,
California-based real-estate research firm. “If you can get
scale and market share you can become a very profitable
business.”  The company says it’s the largest servicer in the U.S. for
manufactured housing loans, and also services residential
mortgages, second liens and home-equity lines of credit,
according to its  website . Green Tree has more than 1,800
employees in 29 offices.  A Morgan Stanley spokeswoman declined to comment, and
Centerbridge didn’t return a call seeking comment.  Centerbridge  New York-based Centerbridge led a group that won approval
in June to buy the assets of Extended Stay Hotels Inc., which
had filed the largest bankruptcy case by a U.S. hotel owner.  Green Tree has expanded servicing for loans on manufactured
homes. In 2004, Green Tree bought an $8.6 billion manufactured
home loan-servicing portfolio from North Fork Bancorp, which had
acquired it as part of its purchase of GreenPoint Financial
Corp. In 2005, Green Tree agreed to purchase another
manufactured-home portfolio from Bombardier Inc.  There may not be much demand from investors for a
residential-servicing business like Green Tree’s, said  Chris Whalen , a former Federal Reserve Bank of New York analyst and
co-founder of Institutional Risk Analytics in Torrance,
California. The trustee for Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. has
decided to shutter the servicing business rather than sell it
and  Bank of America Corp.  is looking to sell some of its
servicing assets as well, Whalen said.  Fortress  In July, Fortress agreed to buy CW Financial Services, the
parent of the second-largest manager of delinquent U.S.
commercial real-estate loans, from a unit of Caisse de Depot et
Placement du Quebec.  Fortress, Cerberus and J.  Christopher Flowers ’ private-
equity firm purchased Green Tree in 2003 from insurer Conseco
Inc. for $850 million, before selling it to Centerbridge.
Conseco had bought Green Tree Financial Corp. in 1998 for $6
billion, and the bad loans that accompanied the acquisition
eventually pushed the insurer into bankruptcy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cristina Alesci  in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Keehner  in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net ;
 Dakin Campbell  in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 