-- Cerberus Said to Seek Buyers for Chrysler Financial
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   M i d e r   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2010-11-24T17:27:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/cerberus-said-to-be-seeking-buyers-for-chrysler-s-former-auto-lending-unit.html
Cerberus Capital Management LP is
seeking buyers for auto lender Chrysler Financial, which the
private-equity firm acquired as part of its takeover of Chrysler
LLC in 2007, said people with knowledge of the matter.  Cerberus in recent days began soliciting interest in the
Farmington Hills, Michigan-based business from large banks, said
the people, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
discussions are private. The former lending arm of Chrysler has
a book value, or assets minus liabilities, of about $6 billion
or $7 billion, the people said yesterday.  Wells Fargo & Co. , and JPMorgan Chase & Co. are among banks
that could benefit from expanding auto lending as sales rebound,
said  Gerard Cassidy , an analyst at RBC Capital Markets in
Portland, Maine. An improved used-car market and more
conservative underwriting standards are reducing losses on bad
loans, he said.  “Auto-lending is a very attractive line of business for
the commercial banks,” Cassidy said. “The banks that are in
the business are making very good money in the business because
the credit losses are unusually low.”  A sale of Chrysler Financial would represent another step
in unwinding Cerberus founder  Stephen Feinberg ’s bet on the U.S.
auto industry. His takeovers of General Motors Corp.’s auto
lender in 2006, followed by Chrysler the following year,
preceded a decline in U.S. auto sales that sent both carmakers
into bankruptcy.  ‘Juicy Asset’  Feinberg, 50, subsequently lost control of both GMAC and
Chrysler and held on to Chrysler Financial. The lender repaid
its $1.5 billion in U.S. Treasury Department bailout funds last
year and in July sought to return to large-scale lending.  Peter Duda , a spokesman for Cerberus, declined to comment
yesterday. A representative of Chrysler Financial didn’t return
a call.  There are only a “handful” of commercial banks, also
including Minneapolis-based U.S. Bancorp and Pittsburgh-based
PNC Financial Services Group Inc., that could afford Chrysler
Financial, Cassidy said. The company would be a good fit for San
Francisco-based Wells Fargo, which already has an auto-lending
arm, he said.  “Here’s a juicy asset that has incredible yield to it and
if you know how to run the auto business like Wells, it may make
a lot of sense to consider this one,” Cassidy said.  Mary Eshet , a spokeswoman for Wells Fargo, declined to
comment.  Chrysler Financial Portfolio  Capital One Financial Corp.  and Banco Santander SA are
among banks that have acquired U.S. loan portfolios this year.
McLean, Virginia-based Capital One bought a credit-card
portfolio from General Electric Co., and Santander bought a $4
billion car-loan portfolio from HSBC Holdings Plc.  “This is the best time that I’ve seen in my 22 years of
building Capital One to actually do acquisitions,” Chief
Executive Officer  Richard D. Fairbank , 60, said during a Nov. 17
investor conference. “Properties that would normally not be
available are from time-to-time becoming available. There are a
lot more sellers and strikingly fewer buyers.”  Chrysler Financial had $26 billion of loans and had issued
less than $100 million of new loans in the first half of this
year, a person with knowledge of Chrysler Financial’s business
said in July. Cerberus hired New York-based JPMorgan, Citigroup
Inc., and Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP to help it run the
auction, said the people with knowledge of the plans.  Chrysler Stake  The past few years have seen both GM and Chrysler severed
from their captive lenders. GM sold Cerberus a 51 percent stake
in GMAC in 2006. Bailouts of that lender, now known as  Ally
Financial Inc. , left the U.S. government in control of the
company and shrunk Cerberus’s stake to 14.9 percent.  Cerberus bought a majority stake in Chrysler for $7.4
billion from DaimlerChrysler AG in 2007. Chrysler, the third-
biggest U.S. automaker, went bankrupt in 2009 along with General
Motors Corp., and Ally supplanted Chrysler as the primary lender
for Chrysler dealers.  The surviving Chrysler automaker is now controlled by
managers from  Fiat SpA .  Meanwhile, General Motors Co. this year got back into
captive lending, acquiring subprime lender AmeriCredit Corp. for
about $3.5 billion as its new finance arm.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Zachary R. Mider  in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
 Cristina Alesci  in New York at 
 Calesci2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 