-- Changi 2010 Passenger Numbers Will Rise to 40 Million, Minister Lim Says
-- B y   C h a n   S u e   L i n g
-- 2010-11-24T01:39:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/changi-2010-passenger-numbers-will-rise-to-40-million-minister-lim-says.html
Changi Airport Group , the operator
of Singapore’s main airfield, expects to handle a record 40
million passengers in 2010 as air travel rebounds from the worst
recession in six decades, Transport Minister  Raymond Lim  said.  The company known as CAG received more than 34 million
passengers in the first 10 months of 2010, 15 percent higher
than the year before, Lim said in a written reply to questions
asked in parliament that was posted on the  ministry’s website 
yesterday. The operator handled 1.5 million tons of cargo in the
period, 13 percent more than a year earlier, he said.  Singapore, facing competition from newer and bigger
airports in Kuala Lumpur and Dubai, has added a third terminal
and another for low-cost airlines to tap growth in Asia. Travel
within the Asia-Pacific region overtook intra-North American
travel as the world’s biggest aviation market last year, the
 International Air Transport Association  said in February.  “With the corporatization of Changi Airport in July 2009,
a regulatory framework has been put in place to provide for
timely investment by CAG in airport infrastructure, runways and
other facilities,” Lim said.  Last year, Singapore’s government set up a company to
manage the island’s airfield to enable it to expand and raise
funds. The country’s  three main terminals , along with the budget
airline facility, can handle a total of 73 million passenger
movements annually, according to Lim.  Singapore was Asia’s fifth busiest airfield by total
passenger movements in 2009, handling more than 37 million
passengers, according to the  Airports Council International , an
association representing airport operators worldwide.  Airlines in Asia Pacific are set to post a combined profit
of $5.2 billion this year, the biggest profit of any region this
year, according to the air transport association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chan Sue Ling  in Singapore 
 slchan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  