-- China Resumes Rare Earth Exports to Japan, METI Says
-- B y   J a e   H u r
-- 2010-11-24T07:37:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/china-resumes-rare-earths-shipments-to-japan-trade-minister-ohata-says.html
  China , the world’s biggest exporter
of rare earths, has restarted shipments of the minerals to Japan
after a diplomatic row between the two countries disrupted trade
in September, Japan’s trade ministry said.  Two vessels carrying rare-earth minerals were confirmed to
have left China for Japan, the Ministry of Economy, Trade and
Industry said today. Japan, the largest rare-earth importer, is
“watching other rare earth shipments from China,” Trade
Minister Akihiro Ohata said today, according to the ministry.  China intends to speed up rare earth exports, Ohata said
Nov. 15 after meeting his Chinese counterpart, Zhang Ping, at
the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum in Yokohama, Japan.
Ohata said Nov. 19 that he expected shipments of the minerals
used in hybrid cars and radar systems would resume this week.  Sixteen Japanese firms reported the situation with Chinese
customs was getting better, according to a recent ministry
survey released on Nov. 19. In one case, loading of the minerals
had started for shipment from China, Ohata said.  Japanese officials including Ohata said China blocked
exports of the minerals after a Chinese fishing trawler collided
with two Japanese Coast Guard boats near islands claimed by both
countries. China’s Ministry of Commerce in September denied
imposing a ban on exports to Japan.  Japan is seeking to secure long-term supplies of rare
earths after China slashed exports in September. Foreign
Minister Seiji Maehara said Japan wanted to collaborate with  Australia  on rare-earth supply at a joint press conference
yesterday with Australian Foreign Minister  Kevin Rudd  in
Canberra.  Lynas-Sojitz Agreement  Lynas Corp. said today it signed a strategic alliance
agreement with  Sojitz Corp . to secure additional supply of rare
earths products for the Japanese market by accelerating the
expansion of the Lynas Rare Earths project.  Rare-earth exports from China declined 77 percent in
October from a month earlier after the government reduced
shipment quotas for the second half.  China slashed its quota for rare earth exports to 7,976
metric tons for the second half of this year, compared with
22,283 tons in the first half and 28,417 tons a year earlier,
according Japan’s trade ministry. Japanese demand for the
minerals was estimated at 20,518 tons in 2009, down from 32,064
tons in 2008, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jae Hur in Tokyo at 
 jhur1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  