-- China Commodity Bourses Raise Fees to Curb Farm-Product, Metal Speculation
-- B y   W i l l i a m   B i   a n d   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2010-11-24T13:45:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/china-commodity-bourses-raise-trading-fees-to-cut-speculation-price-gains.html
China, where the world’s four
biggest agricultural contracts are traded, will raise costs to
buy and sell farm-product and metals futures as part of a
government effort to limit speculation and tame inflation.  The Dalian Commodity Exchange said today it will scrap a
measure that lets some investors pay half the normal fees for
contracts bought and sold on the same day and will cease all
other discounts as of Jan. 1. The Zhengzhou Commodity Exchange
and Shanghai Futures Exchange said they will extend fees now
levied on some contracts to other products.  The government has pledged to use price controls and may
raise interest rates a second time this year to slow inflation
that rose last month to a two-year high and to curb food costs
that jumped 10.1 percent in October. Chicago-based  CME Group
Inc.  and other U.S. and European commodity exchanges also are
charging more to trade some raw materials after prices jumped.  “Raising fees to be active on the exchange is a
predictable move to try to calm down speculative investment,”
said  Gary Mead , an analyst at VM Group in London. “But high
futures prices reflect both speculative investment and
fundamental supply-demand factors.”  Soy Oil  Soy-meal futures on the Dalian exchange gained 8.1 percent
this year and its counterpart on the Chicago Board of Trade
climbed 12 percent. Soy oil traded in Dalian rose 19 percent and
refined sugar in Zhengzhou has advanced 13 percent.  White, or refined, sugar listed in Zhengzhou was the
world’s most-traded agricultural contract from January through
June by volume,  according to data  from the Futures Industry
Association. It was followed by the Shanghai rubber contract and
the Dalian soy-meal and soy-oil contracts.  Volume for the Zhengzhou sugar contract more than tripled
from a year earlier, and Shanghai rubber more than doubled, the
FIA figures show.  The Chinese exchanges’ steps may have little effect on
world commodities prices, partly because trading is closed to
outside investors. The exchanges are open to domestic companies
and foreign businesses that operate in China and buy and sell
commodities as part of everyday activities.  ‘Negative’ for Metals  Raising commodity trading fees is similar to increasing
stamp duty for the stock market, and it “can be negative in the
short term” for metals in Shanghai, said Pang Ying, an analyst
at Shenzhen Rongtuo Trading Co.  CME Group, the world’s biggest futures market, this month
raised the amount of money traders must keep on deposit for
soybean futures by as much as 10 percent. ICE Futures U.S.
increased margins for cotton after the fiber climbed to a
record, and London-based LCH.Clearnet raised robusta coffee,
cocoa and white-sugar charges.  The Chinese exchanges have used discounts for same-day
trading as a way to stoke volume in the past,  Dong Shuangwei ,
manager at Beijing Capital Futures Co., said by phone from
Zhengzhou. The Zhengzhou exchange first halted fee discounts on
cotton on Oct. 18. It later ended discounts for indica rice,
white sugar, rapeseed oil and cotton, its website shows.  The Shanghai exchange last December temporarily cut the
discount on trading of steel rebar and natural rubber, according
to a statement dated  Dec. 11  on its website. Its contracts
include copper, aluminum, zinc, fuel oil and gold as well as
rubber and steel.  Zhengzhou trades wheat, sugar, cotton, rapeseed oil, rice
and pure terephthalic acid. Dalian contracts include soybeans,
palm oil, soybean oil and corn.  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Bi in Beijing at   wbi@bloomberg.net ;
 Tony C. Dreibus  in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  