-- China Ministries to Carry Out Nationwide Property Inspections, Daily Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-24T02:24:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/china-ministries-to-carry-out-nationwide-property-inspections-daily-says.html
China will carry out a nationwide
property inspection on the implementation of the government’s
real-estate measures, the China Daily reported today, citing
unidentified people from the property industry.  The “large-scale” inspection will focus on local
government efforts to ensure land supply, construction of
affordable housing, and the cleanup of idle land parcels, the
official English language newspaper reported. The Ministry of
Housing and Urban-Rural Development and the Ministry of Land and
Resources will carry out the inspections, it said, without
giving a timeframe.  “The government wants to check out the market before
setting up next year’s real-estate plans,” said  Liu Kun , a
property analyst at Great Wall Securities Co. based in Shenzhen.
“The construction of low-income affordable homes to increase
supply will be the government’s focus in the future.”  China is clamping down on land hoarding after record land
prices fuelled the risk of a housing bubble. The government last
month raised interest rates for the first time in three years,
and has suspended mortgages for third-home purchases and pledged
to speed up trials of property taxes this year to restrain
foreign capital and cool property prices. Prices rose for a 17th
month in October, by 8.6 percent from a year ago.  The central bank ordered lenders on Nov. 19 to set aside
larger reserves for the second time in two weeks.  Property Stocks  The Housing Ministry did not immediately respond to faxed
requests for comment, while phone calls to the Ministry of Land
and Resources were unanswered.  An index of Chinese  property stocks  in Shanghai rose 0.4
percent as of 9:46 a.m. local time, trimming this year’s loss to
34 percent. China Vanke Co., the nation’s biggest listed
developer, and rival Poly Real Estate Co. both rose 0.6 percent
in Shenzhen and Shanghai trading respectively.  China’s government conducts land and property inspections
on a regular basis, though they are rarely carried out jointly
by the Housing and Land Ministries, Liu said.  China will bar companies that have held land for more than
a year without developing it from buying additional plots,
seeking a “reasonable” correction in the nation’s home prices,
the government announced on Sept. 27.  Land Release  It will increase land available for smaller, affordable
apartments in cities with high prices, and no parcels should be
used to build large, high-end homes before the supply of
government-supported housing is met, it added.  Developers and their controlling shareholders won’t be
allowed to participate in land auctions until they’ve taken
measures to rectify issues regarding their unused land, the
government said in the same statement. The ban also applies to
companies found with irregularities such as forged documents.  China found 3,070 cases of land misuse nationwide as of the
end of May, with 2,815 of them involving undeveloped plots, Liao
Yonglin, land-use director of the land ministry, said at a
briefing on Aug. 19.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  