-- China Builds Nuclear Reactor for 40% Less Than Cost in France, Areva Says
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y   a n d   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2010-11-24T16:57:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/china-builds-french-designed-nuclear-reactor-for-40-less-areva-ceo-says.html
Areva SA  said the EPR nuclear
reactor costs 3 billion euros ($4 billion) to build in China, 40
percent less than the price tag  Electricite de France SA  has put
on building one in Normandy.  Chinese nuclear builders’ grasp of the technology is “very
worrying” for European companies, Areva Chief Executive Officer
 Anne Lauvergeon  told a hearing at the French Senate today in
Paris. She also said Chinese companies are more efficient.  The third-generation reactor designed by Areva is being
built in France, Finland and China at varying budgets and
construction schedules. Once considered key to the success of
France’s atomic exports, the design has been criticized as too
big and costly after the country lost to a Korean group for a
$20 billion order in the United Arab Emirates last year.  “The EPR isn’t more expensive than the competition for the
same product,” Lauvergeon told senators today. “All of the
lessons learned in Finland are being integrated into
construction at Taishan. We are simplifying and improving.”  Talks on developing two more of the reactors in China in
addition to two already under construction are “near
completion,” Lauvergeon said. Areva is also in the final stages
of negotiating the sale of two EPRs in India, plus a nuclear
fuel contract, she said.  Ahead of Schedule  State-run EDF has a 30 percent stake in Taishan Nuclear
Power Joint Venture Co. to develop and operate two 1,700-
megawatt EPRs with China Guangdong Nuclear Power Group. Areva,
also run by the government, is supplying components.  Construction of Taishan 1 began in November 2009 while
Taishan 2 started in April. The reactors are expected to start
at the end of 2013 and 2014, according to EDF.  The EPR being developed in Finland will take 86 months to
complete due to the country’s “very demanding regulator and a
complicated” client, Lauvergeon said. The Flamanville reactor
in Normandy will take 71 months while Taishan 1 and 2 are
targeting 46 months, she said.  Taishan 1 is on schedule and Taishan 2 is ahead, according
to Lauvergeon.  Progress at Taishan is being kept six months behind
Flamanville deliberately in order to benefits from experience,
the head of France’s nuclear safety watchdog Andre-Claude
Lacoste said last week.  EDF has repeatedly raised its cost estimate for
Flamanville, France’s first EPR, with the latest estimate at
about 5 billion euros, up from 3.3 billion in 2005.  Areva  has already booked 2.6 billion euros of provisions
for the EPR it’s developing in Finland, initially estimated to
cost 3 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tara Patel  at   tpatel2@bloomberg.net   Francois de Beaupuy  in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  