-- China Stocks Advance For Second Day; Commodity Producers, Developers Gain
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-25T08:11:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/chinese-banks-air-china-china-eastern-china-equity-preview.html
China stocks  rose for a second day
after U.S. reports showed employment and consumer sentiment
improved, boosting confidence in a global economic recovery and
driving commodity prices higher.  PetroChina Co.  and Zhuzhou Smelter Group Co. paced gains by
raw-material producers after crude oil and metal prices advanced
yesterday.  Sany Heavy Industry Co.  climbed 8.2 percent after
Citic Securities Co. said the machinery industry stands to
benefit from development in rural provinces. Poly Real Estate
Group Co. led builders higher as investors speculated recent
losses were excessive.  “Sentiment is improving and fear of a global recession is
fading,” said  Zhang Ling , a fund manager at Shanghai River Fund
Management Co. “Chinese stocks will still be constrained as
investors wait for clarity on next year’s monetary policies.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index , which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, added 38.33, or 1.3 percent, to
2,898.26 at the 3 p.m. close, adding to yesterday’s 1.1 percent
advance. The  CSI 300 Index  rose 1.5 percent to 3,223.48.  The Shanghai gauge lost 9.5 percent as of yesterday since
reaching an almost seven-month high on Nov. 8 on concern that
accelerated monetary tightening will crimp economic growth.  The People’s Bank of China said yesterday it will
strengthen liquidity management and “normalize” monetary
conditions after having twice this month ordered banks to hold
more in reserves to curb inflation that’s at a two-year high.  ‘Biggest Risk’  China stocks may gain about 20 percent next year as
“abundant” liquidity and profit growth overshadows the risk of
inflation, Credit Suisse Group AG said. Consumer price index
gains may reach 5 percent next year while lending and deposit
rates may increase by 125-150 basis points, analysts  Vincent Chan  and  Peggy Chan  wrote in a report.  PetroChina, the nation’s biggest oil company, added 2.1
percent to 11.18 yuan.  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. , the
second biggest, also known as Sinopec, gained 1.1 percent to
8.25 yuan. Zhuzhou Smelter, China’s biggest producer of refined
zinc, advanced 8.7 percent to 17.31 yuan.  Crude oil for January delivery surged 3.2 percent yesterday
in New York to $83.86 a barrel, the biggest gain since July 22.
The London Metal Exchange Index of prices for six industrial
metals including copper and aluminum increased 1.4 percent
yesterday after three consecutive declines.  The U.S. Labor Department said jobless claims fell to
407,000 last week. The median projection of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News called for a drop to 435,000. The Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan final index of November consumer
sentiment increased to 71.6, the highest level since June and
exceeding the median economist estimate of 69.5.  Machinery Makers  Sany Heavy, China’s biggest maker of machinery for handling
concrete, jumped 8.2 percent to 22.01 yuan as it resumed trading
today after a shareholders meeting.  Guangxi Liugong Machinery Co. 
climbed 4.6 percent to 37.12 yuan, a sixth day of gains.  China’s machinery industry will grow at a 15 to 20 percent
annual pace in the next three to five years as the government
takes steps to boost lesser developed provinces, analysts led by
 Guo Yaling  wrote in a note today. The China Securities Journal
said this week the government will soon announce a plan to
develop the construction machinery industry.  Anhui Conch Cement Co.  paced gains among cement makers on
speculation demand for the building material will increase at
the same time as government-mandated energy curbs reduce
production, driving up prices.  Cement Producers  Anhui Conch, China’s biggest cement maker, advanced 5.8
percent to 24.64 yuan, its biggest gain since Aug. 30. Gansu
Qilianshan Cement Group Co. climbed 4.1 percent to 17.28 yuan.
 Tangshan Jidong Cement Co.  surged 8.4 percent to 21.07 yuan.  Cement prices have risen more than 40 percent in East China
since August as local governments limited electricity supply to
manufacturers to meet energy reduction targets,  Luo Guo , an
analyst at Orient Securities Co., wrote in a report.  A  measure  of property stocks advanced 2.3 percent, its
biggest gain since Nov. 5 and paring its loss this month to 5
percent.  Poly Real Estate, China’s second-largest developer by
market value, gained 5.8 percent to 12.87 yuan after falling to
the lowest level since Sept. 29 this week.  China Vanke Co. , the
biggest, climbed 4 percent to 8.40 yuan.  Government lending restrictions have helped drag the
Shanghai Composite down 12 percent this year after surging 80
percent in 2009. Policy makers suspended mortgages for third-
home purchases and pledged to speed up trials of property taxes
to curb gains in housing prices. Price gains in Chinese cities
slowed to 0.2 percent in October from September, according to
official data.  Housing Bubble  China needs to introduce “harsher” measures to curb real
estate speculation and increase the supply of lower-cost housing
as home prices rise,  Ba Shusong , deputy director-general of the
State Council’s Development Research Center, said in a
commentary in China Business News today. The nation risks a
real-estate bubble as property is one of few investment options,
he said.  The nation will use quantitative and price tools to manage
liquidity,  Hu Xiaolian , a deputy governor of the  People’s Bank
of China , said yesterday after the market closed. China will
also control the pace of  bank lending  for the remainder of this
year, the official said.  “The government’s intention to curb inflation by even
tighter monetary policies has become very clear to the market,”
said  Yuan Yi , chief strategist at Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co.
in Shanghai. “Expectations for tighter policies will cause
market volatility and deeper corrections by the year end.”  Interest Rates  Inflation reached 4.4 percent last month, the highest in
two years. Analysts at nine banks surveyed by Bloomberg News
last week predicted the PBOC will boost borrowing costs a second
time by year-end.  China will have about 6.5 trillion yuan in new lending next
year, China Securities Journal reported, citing an unidentified
person. The target for new lending may be between 6 trillion
yuan and 6.5 trillion yuan in 2011, less than “street”
expectations of 7 trillion yuan and 7.5 trillion yuan, Credit
Suisse said.  -- Zhang Shidong . With assistance from  Irene Shen  in Shanghai.
Editors:  Richard Frost , Reinie Booysen  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3040 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  