-- China Money-Market Rate Reaches 7-Week High After Reserve-Ratio Increases
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-24T04:05:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/china-money-market-rate-reaches-7-week-high-after-reserve-ratio-increases.html
China’s benchmark money-market rate
climbed to its highest levels in seven weeks as cash
availability between banks declined after the central bank
raised lenders’ reserve requirements twice this month.  The People’s Bank of China said Nov. 19 it would lift the
amount of cash banks must set aside as reserves by 50 basis
points from Nov. 29. The move, the second this month, will drain
350 billion yuan ($53 billion) from the financial system, Bank
of America Merrill Lynch said. China should “confidently” and
“clearly” strengthen capital management to combat excessive
liquidity inside and outside the country, the China Business
News reported today, citing central bank adviser Xia Bin.  “Last week’s announcement of the second reserve-ratio
hike, which was mainly aimed at draining inflows of hot money,
obviously drove up money-market rates,” said Pang Aihua, a bond
analyst at China Citic Bank Corp. in Beijing. “We expect the
central bank to raise interest rates before the year-end.”  The seven-day repurchase  rate , which measures lending costs
between banks, jumped 11 basis points to 2.33 percent, according
to a daily fixing published at 11 a.m. by the National Interbank
Funding Center in Shanghai. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  The one-month Shanghai Interbank Offered Rate, or  Shibor ,
advanced 25 basis points to 3.27 percent, the fixing of the
interbank funding center showed.  Five-year swaps, the fixed rate needed to receive the
floating seven-day repo rate, fell two basis points to 3.85
percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The rate reached a
nine-month high of 3.87 percent on Nov. 22.  The finance ministry sold at least 28 billion yuan of
seven-year bonds today at an average yield of 3.83 percent, in
line with the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. The
highest winning bid was 3.86 percent.  The yield on the 3.41 percent note due June 2020 climbed
one basis point to 3.96 percent, according to the Interbank
Funding Center.  The 10-year bond yield may reach 4 percent if the central
bank raises benchmark lending and deposit rates by 25 basis
points this year, said Pang.  -- Belinda Cao . Editors: Andrew Janes, Sandy Hendry  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Belinda Cao  in Beijing at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  