-- China’s PBOC Plans to Strengthen Liquidity Management
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-25T05:44:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/china-s-central-bank-to-strengthen-liquidity-management-tighten-lending.html
The  People’s Bank of China  said it
will strengthen liquidity management and “normalize” monetary
conditions, reinforcing forecasts for higher interest rates to
combat the highest inflation rate in two years.  The nation will use quantitative and price tools to manage
liquidity,  Hu Xiaolian , a central bank deputy governor, said in
a  statement  on the bank’s website yesterday. PBOC adviser  Xia Bin  said at a conference in Shanghai today that both higher
rates and bank reserve ratios may be needed to control liquidity.  The comments reflect the concern in Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s
government that inflation, which reached 4.4 percent last month,
risks destabilizing the economy. China has raised rates, told
banks to hold more funds in reserve and pledged price controls
if needed. Xia also suggested, in an opinion piece published
today, a tax on currency trading to slow capital inflows.  “We expect them to accelerate monetary tightening,” with
another rate move coming as soon as this weekend, said  Dariusz Kowalczyk , senior economist at Credit Agricole CIB in Hong Kong.
Inflation may climb to 5 percent in the second quarter of 2011
and “such strong price pressures would be unacceptable to the
PBOC,” he said.  Kowalczyk added that policy makers may allow a faster pace
of gains in the exchange rate to reduce inflationary pressures
from imports.  Yuan Rises  The yuan appreciated 0.06 percent to 6.6501 per dollar as
of 12:27 p.m. in Shanghai, after retreating 0.31 percent in the
last four days, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade
System. Wen’s government has kept gains to less than 3 percent
since pledging greater flexibility in June.  Policy makers are coping with the legacy of the record
credit expansion unleashed last year to safeguard the economy
from the global recession. China aims to control the pace of
 bank lending  through year-end as it will be difficult to stay
within the government’s 7.5 trillion yuan ($1.1 trillion) target
for new loans in 2010, Deputy Governor Hu said.  Authorities will allow for no more than 300 billion yuan in
excess of the lending cap for this year, Caijing reported online
today, citing an unidentified person close to regulators.
Officials are likely to impose a limit of 6 trillion to 6.5
trillion yuan for next year, Credit Suisse AG analysts wrote in
a report.  Rate Outlook  Economists at nine banks surveyed by Bloomberg News last
week predicted the PBOC will raise the benchmark one-year
deposit and lending rates by year-end, from the current levels
of 5.56 percent and 2.5 percent.  Rising wages, higher commodities prices and abundant
liquidity are adding to inflation expectations in China, Hu said.
Pressure on prices is also rising as the country attracts
capital because of increasing expectations for yuan appreciation,
she said.  China’s current-account surplus doubled in the third
quarter from a year earlier to $102.3 billion as the nation’s
exports recovered from the global crisis, State Administration
of Foreign Exchange figures showed today.  Xia, writing in the China Dealmaker magazine, said China
should consider imposing a so-called Tobin tax on short-term
capital, reiterating officials’ concern that the U.S. Federal
Reserve’s bond-purchase program will fuel “hot money” flows of
speculative funds.  Bubble Concern  PBOC Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said last week that loose
policies in developed economies may spark inflows of cash to
China, fueling concern about asset-price bubbles.  Overall  credit growth  should be curtailed to 15 percent
next year from an estimated 18.8 percent this year, Xia said
today in Shanghai. The central bank had cut financial
institutions’ total loan quota target to 7.5 trillion yuan this
year, from an unprecedented 9.59 trillion yuan in 2009.  “The key task of monetary policy currently is to
strengthen liquidity management, which is also a main way of
normalizing monetary conditions,” Hu from the central bank said.  The 21st Century Business Herald reported Nov. 23 that
China’s banks had already extended 600 billion yuan of loans
this month. That would indicate the annual target would be
reached by the end of November.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd., Bank of China
Ltd. and Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. are only extending new
loans as existing ones get repaid, according to four people with
knowledge of the matter.  Food Costs  The 4.4 percent increase in consumer prices in October from
a year earlier was driven by a 10 percent surge in food costs,
according to government statistics.  Inflation  this year may
exceed the government’s 3 percent target for 2010,  Zhang Ping ,
head of the top economic planning agency, said this month.
November’s inflation figure is due to be released on Dec. 13.  China may set a higher inflation target of 4 percent next
year and decide to tighten its monetary policy stance at the
government’s annual economic-work meeting at the end of this
year, the China Business News newspaper reported yesterday,
citing an unidentified person who has been involved in
consultations on the policy.  Higher prices for food and services are prompting
economists to raise their forecasts for inflation next year.
Standard Chartered lifted its estimate last week to 5.5 percent
from 4 percent, and UBS AG said Nov. 19 consumer prices will
rise as much as 4.5 percent, compared with its previous range of
3.5 percent to 4 percent. Bank of America-Merrill Lynch revised
its estimate to 4.5 percent from 3.6 percent.  “We expect some harsh administrative measures” such as
selective increases in reserve requirements for some banks to
rein in liquidity,  Lu Ting , a Hong Kong-based economist at
Merrill Lynch said.  The central bank has already raised the reserve requirement
ratio for the nation’s lenders twice this month by a total of
100 basis points. The increase takes the ratio for the nation’s
biggest banks to 18 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  -- Sophie Leung , Nerys Avery. With assistance from  Huang Zhe  and Li Yanping  in Beijing. Editors: Chris Anstey, Matthew Brooker.  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Sophie Leung  in Hong Kong at +852-2977-6126 or
 sleung59@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  