-- Christie Attack on Pay Enrages N.J. Republican Towns `Bullied' by Governor
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   D u n s t a n   M c N i c h o l
-- 2010-11-24T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/christie-attack-on-pay-enrages-n-j-republican-towns-bullied-by-governor.html
New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie ’s proposal to cap school-superintendent salaries
will affect many of the affluent suburban communities that
helped the first-term Republican oust Democrat  Jon Corzine  last
year.  Christie plans to hold the salaries of superintendents to
no more than $175,000 a year, the same as the governor’s,
beginning Feb. 7. Of the 205 school chiefs who earn more, 126
are in communities that gave Christie pluralities in 2009, state
education and voting  data  show.  “He’s doing this to the very communities that elected
him,”  James O’Neill , who earns $210,000 as superintendent in
the Chathams, 25 miles (40 kilometers) west of New York City,
said in a Nov. 22 telephone interview. “What he’s telling us is
that those people were all smart enough to elect him, but
they’re not smart enough to choose who will be superintendent.”  Christie, 48, the first Republican elected New Jersey
governor since 1997, has assailed the cost of public education
since taking office in January. In seeking to control the
nation’s highest property taxes, he attacked teacher pay in
April and turned to administrators in  July .  Christie’s plan ties superintendents’ base compensation to
district size, with salaries in the smallest systems capped at
$125,000 and larger ones at $175,000. Christie said the 16
districts with more than 10,000 students could exceed the cap
with state approval. Districts can still award performance
bonuses. About 70 percent of New Jersey’s school chiefs, or 366,
earn more than the proposed caps, according to Christie.  “It’s not a good idea,” said  William Librera , 64, who was
state education commissioner from 2002 to 2005 and who now
conducts superintendent searches for New Jersey districts. “It
abridges the basic opportunities and responsibilities of a
community.”  $40,000 Cut  The superintendent of Franklin Lakes would get a $40,000
cut under Christie’s rules, said school board member Margaret
Bennett. Her district serves a borough of 11,600 people in
Bergen County and has a budget of $24 million. It was selected
by  Forbes.com  as one of the nation’s top 10 for communities with
average home values exceeding $800,000. Seventy percent of its
voters backed Christie.  Bennett said resistance to the caps is coming from across
the political spectrum. In New Jersey, school board candidates
don’t declare party affiliations.  “Do I think he’s being a bully? Absolutely,” Bennett said
in a telephone interview yesterday. “That is the irony, he’s
hurting the districts that put him in office.”  Cutting superintendents’ pay would save property-tax payers
$9.8 million, according to Christie. Last year, New Jersey spent
$25 billion on education, according to the state’s  Department of
Community Affairs .  Evasive Action  Several school boards, including the Chathams, Parsippany-
Troy Hills and Christie’s hometown of Mendham, are trying to
circumvent the cap by extending superintendents’ contracts.
Christie’s administration this month said none could be
renegotiated unless they complied with his new rules, which he
said won’t require legislation.  In Parsippany-Troy Hills, the school board on Nov. 9
approved a new five-year contract that gave Superintendent LeRoy
Seitz a salary of $234,000 by the 2014-15 school year, according
to the governor. It was voided by Morris County’s executive
schools superintendent, a state employee, after Christie called
Seitz “the new poster boy for greed and arrogance in the New
Jersey school systems.”  Parsippany, about 28 miles west of New York City, has a
median household income of $85,974, compared with the U.S.
average of $52,175, U.S. Census Bureau  data  show. Fifty-three
percent of its voters backed Christie in last year’s election,
state  records  show.  Asking for Sacrifice  More than 50 superintendents had base salaries of at least
$200,000 last year, according to  state data , including Seitz,
who currently makes $212,020.  “If we’re asking teachers to sacrifice, administrators
have to sacrifice too,” Christie said at a Nov. 15 townhall
meeting in Washington Township. “They cannot be sitting here
saying that they are some special privileged class.”  Seitz didn’t return telephone calls. The board of his
7,250-student district has appealed the blocking of his contract
extension, said Richard Bozza, executive director of the New
Jersey Association of School Administrators, which filed a
friend-of-the-court motion supporting the suit.  Christie’s decision to base a superintendents’ salary on
what the governor makes is “arbitrary” and doesn’t take into
account school administrators’ qualifications, Bozza said.  Political Agenda  The Chathams’ superintendent, O’Neill, said Christie’s pay
cap has “nothing to do with fiscal prudence and nothing to do
with what’s best for education in New Jersey.”  “It has to do with his political agenda,” O’Neill said.  New Jersey school systems spent $16,491 per student in
2008, according to Census  data . That ranked second to New York,
which spent $17,173 per pupil. The average was $10,259.  While overall spending may be high, administrative costs
are low compared with other states, Bozza said, citing data from
the National Center for Education Statistics.  New Jersey and Tennessee are tied for the ninth-lowest
administrative spending as a percentage of school budgets, the
data show. The two spent 9.5 percent of their money on
administration in 2008, compared with a national rate of 10.8
percent.  The Assembly in New Jersey unanimously passed a bipartisan
bill on Nov. 22 that seeks to end many perks and bonuses
superintendents receive on top of their salaries by creating a
uniform state contract. The measure needs approval from the
Senate. Both houses are controlled by Democrats.  Spreading Anger  School administrators’ anger over the pay caps will spread
to residents, said Senator  Ray Lesniak , a Democrat from
Elizabeth. Superintendents will “convey their message to the
families and to the students,” he said. “They’re going to be
very upset.”  In a poll this month by Quinnipiac University asking New
Jersey voters whether they considered Christie more of a leader
or a bully, 50 percent said leader and 42 percent bully. Fifteen
percent of Republicans, and 68 percent of Democrats, described
Christie as more of a bully. Overall, he received approval from
51 percent of the 1,362 voters surveyed by telephone Nov. 3-8.  Christie, a former federal prosecutor, said “see you in
court” when asked about the Parsippany suit and resistance to
the salary cap.  Corporate Pay  “I’m on the side of the taxpayers,” he said at a news
conference yesterday in his  Trenton office . His opponents are
“on the side of superintendents who care more about being paid
like corporate CEOs than they care about taxpayers,” Christie
said.  O’Neill said he and the Chathams school board recently
agreed to a three-year contract extension that granted him 2
percent annual raises. The contract, now on hold, would have
pushed him about $45,000 over Christie’s pay threshold, he said.  In his system of 3,900 students from the Chatham borough
and township, voters approved a school budget with a $240
average property-tax increase after Christie reduced its state
aid by 86 percent this year, O’Neill said. Fifty-nine percent of
voters in those communities  voted  for Christie.  Seventy percent of voters in Wall in Monmouth County voted
for him. The township’s school aid dropped 60 percent under
Christie’s first budget in March, to $1.9 million. James Habel,
the schools superintendent, was paid $200,273 last year.  Hometown Edict  Christie’s edict applies even to his hometown of Mendham,
where Superintendent Kristopher Harrison’s base salary is
$165,800, or $15,800 above the cap for a district of its size.
School board members dodged the rule in September when they
approved a five-year contract renewal for Harrison with merit-
based raises of 3 percent annually, he said.  “Time will only tell what impact it’s going to have,”
Harrison, 38, said in a telephone interview. “My focus is on
stability in Mendham Township schools and the achievement of our
students.”  Assemblyman  Declan O’Scanlon , a Republican from Red Bank,
said he doesn’t expect political blowback over the issue.  “The average taxpayer is making a fraction of what these
people make even with the cap,” O’Scanlon said in a Nov. 22
interview. “They aren’t going to stay up at night weeping over
this.”  Lynne Strickland,  executive director of the Garden State
Coalition of Schools, which lobbies for districts, said towns
that are used to managing their own affairs are feeling
threatened.  “There’s an intense roar that’s sort of rising here,”
Strickland said. “Local folks are saying we know best what’s
needed for our districts.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
 Dunstan McNichol  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 dmcnichol@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   matannen@bloomberg.net . 