-- Citigroup, Hawaii Settle Spat Over $1.1 Billion in Auction-Rate Securities
-- B y   D o u g l a s   W o n g   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2010-11-24T21:15:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/citigroup-and-hawaii-settle-1-1-billion-auction-rate-securities-dispute.html
 Citigroup Inc.  agreed to buy back
$869 million of auction-rate securities it had sold to  Hawaii 
and repay the state for losses on securities it had previously
liquidated, Hawaii’s Attorney General  Mark Bennett  said.  The settlement means Hawaii’s taxpayers will lose no
principal on their investments in the securities, Bennett said
in a statement posted on his official  website . Citigroup admits
no wrongdoing and Hawaii won’t pursue claims against the bank,
according to the statement.  Hawaii has liquidated at par value $200 million of the
securities, which are backed by pools of federally guaranteed
student loans, since February 2008. Under the agreement with
Citigroup, the state can obtain “interim liquidity” on as much
as $150 million of the securities from July 2012 at market
value. The bank will pay the difference between that market
value and par in July 2015.  Alexander Samuelson , a Citigroup spokesman, said in a
statement that the bank was “pleased to provide this liquidity
solution to the state.”  The state’s portfolio would be valued at about $100 million
less than par if it were sold today, according to SecondMarket
Inc., a New York-based firm that matches buyers and sellers of
alternative investments.  “This is a big win for Hawaii, although they’ll have to
wait a little while to get their money back,” said  Espen Robak ,
president of Pluris Valuation Advisors, a New York-based firm
that provides valuation services for illiquid assets.  “From a valuation perspective, this gives Citi another
headache it didn’t want,” he said in a telephone interview.
SecondMarket’s parent company owns a minority interest in
Pluris.  Market Collapse  Auction-rate securities got their name from the weekly,
bank-run sales where the interest rate they pay investors is
determined. The market, which once stood at $330 billion,
collapsed in 2008 as banks stopped using their own cash to prop
up the auctions. That left investors with bonds they couldn’t
sell and forced borrowers such as hospitals to pay a premium.  Bloomberg News reported in March that the securities were
sold to Hawaii as low-risk substitutes for U.S. Treasury bills
by Citigroup broker  Pete Thompson  in Honolulu.  The state’s auction-rate purchases began after the broker
successfully lobbied legislators in 1997 for a change in state
law to permit the transactions. Thompson didn’t know the market
was failing when he sold the state the bonds, he said in a March
24 interview.  ‘Sorely Lacking’  Hawaii last year rejected as “sorely lacking” an offer by
Citigroup to buy back at an unspecified discount the auction-
rate securities sold by Thompson,  Randall Nishiyama , a deputy
attorney general, said in a telephone interview earlier this
year. The Hawaiian Treasury bought the auction-rate bonds
without making all of the required monthly disclosures to the
state’s director of the Finance & Budget Department, according
to a March 18 report by Auditor  Marion M. Higa .  Hawaii’s finance department made its first investments in
student loan auction-rate securities in 1998, according to the
 report  by Higa. The holdings climbed from $427 million in July
of 2007 to almost $1.1 billion in February 2008, when the
auctions that allowed investors to sell the bonds began failing.  The settlement won’t result in a charge for Citigroup
because the expected costs are covered under previously
accumulated legal reserves, said a person with knowledge of the
matter who requested anonymity.  Saber Partners LLC, a New York-based financial adviser,
assisted Hawaii in the negotiations with Citigroup, said the
firm’s chief executive officer,  Joseph Fichera .  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
 Douglas Wong  in Hong Kong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net ;
 Christopher Palmeri  in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 