-- Coffee Harvesting Starts in Vietnam After Rains Delay Picking, Traders Say
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-24T06:41:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/coffee-harvesting-starts-in-vietnam-after-rains-delay-picking-traders-say.html
Coffee farmers in  Vietnam , the
world’s biggest grower after Brazil, have started harvesting
cherries after rains delayed picking by almost a month, local
traders said.  “Rains have stopped for a few days, helping farmers to
start picking,” said Le Tien Hung, deputy director of Dak Lak-
based Sept. 2nd Import-Export Co., Vietnam’s fourth-biggest
coffee exporter, said by phone today.  Harvesting should have started at the beginning of this
month, Nguyen Van Sinh, deputy head of the agricultural
department in Dak Lak, the biggest growing region, said Nov. 3.  “If the weather stays dry as it is now, we will see coffee
from this crop hit the market in about two weeks, since farmers
need some time to dry the beans,” said Pham Dinh Khai, director
of An Giang Coffee Co.’s branch in Buon Ma Thuot, the capital of
Dak Lak. About 5 percent to 10 percent of the crop has been
picked so far, according to Khai and Hung.  Robusta-coffee futures for January delivery rose 0.3
percent to $1,853 a metric ton on NYSE Liffe in London
yesterday. Prices have jumped 43 percent this year and an
increase in supplies from Vietnam, the world’s biggest robusta
grower, may pare gains.  “It’s going to be a bit delayed but by the end of December
we should start to see a sufficient amount of coffee to have an
effect” on the market, Herve Touraine, executive director of SW
Commodities Ltd. in Hong Kong, said by phone today.  Dry and Sunny  Rainfall in Buon Ma Thuot totaled 250.4 millimeters between
Nov. 1 and 20, compared with 89.4 millimeters in the same period
last year, according to figures yesterday from the Dak Lak
Hydrology and Meteorology Office.  Dak Lak province “will have a few dry, sunny days” in the
10-day period through Nov. 30, the weather office said in a
report this week. “There might be some rains scattered in the
eastern part of the province later in the period,” it said.  Vietnam may produce 1.1 million tons of coffee this year,
about 3 percent less than the previous crop, according to an
Oct. 29 forecast from Nguyen Van An, a board member of the
Vietnam Coffee & Cocoa Association.  A Bloomberg News survey of 10 growers, analysts and traders
last month predicted an increase to 1.2 million tons. Officials
in Dak Lak, Lam Dong and Gia Lai have all forecast production
gains in their regions.  -- Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen  and  Nicholas Heath . Editors: Matthew
Oakley, Jarrett Banks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen  in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net .
 Nicholas Heath  in Hanoi at 
 nheath2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  