-- Collahuasi Extends Offer to Chile Miners, Avoids Union
-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e
-- 2010-11-24T16:11:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/collahuasi-extends-offer-to-striking-copper-miners-avoids-union.html
Anglo American Plc  and  Xstrata Plc’s 
Collahuasi venture said it will ignore union calls to resume
wage talks and continue negotiating directly with workers in a
bid to end a strike at the world’s fourth-biggest copper mine.  Collahuasi, in northern Chile, extended an offer of 14
million pesos ($29,313) in bonuses and low-interest loans until
Nov. 26 after a deadline expired yesterday because it has yet to
contact all workers, spokeswoman  Bernardita Fernandez  said. The
deal will be cut to 12 million on Nov. 27, she said.  “We are confident that we will get our workers back,”
Fernandez said in a telephone interview yesterday.  Acceptances of the company’s offer have fallen short of the
required 756, from the 1,551-strong union, to dissolve the
strike under Chilean law, threatening to prolong the action that
helped drive copper prices to a record earlier this month.
Prices for the metal rose today in New York and London.  The company bypassed the union on Nov. 17 to negotiate
individually with its workers after talks broke down on Nov. 5.  Hundreds of workers marched in Iquique today, banging on
drums, blowing whistles and bringing the port city’s downtown
area to a standstill.  Collahuasi Saves  “Collahuasi saves the 33 miners but buries its 1,551
own,” one banner read, in a reference to the company’s role in
helping free trapped workers from the San Jose mine last month.  “We are just going to wait and see,” union leader Manuel
Munoz said as he led the march with Cristian Arancibia, the head
of the umbrella union that represents all the miners who work in
privately owned mining companies.  About 200 workers had accepted the company’s proposal as of
yesterday, Fernandez said. The company is also hiring 100 new
workers subject to a medical examination, she said.  The Collahuasi standoff, in its 20th day, is approaching a
26-day strike at  BHP Billiton Ltd.’s  Escondida copper mine in
2006, the longest recorded among Chile’s largest mines.
Prospects of lower supplies helped drive copper to a London
Metal Exchange record of $8,966 a ton on Nov. 11. The metal rose
as much as 1.8 percent to $8,290 in London today after three
days of losses. It climbed as much as 1.7 percent in New York.  Loading Shipments  The mine’s Patache Port on the Pacific Coast continues to
operate normally with the help of non-union employees and
contract workers, Fernandez said. Collahuasi loaded a 44,000-
metric ton shipment of copper concentrate on Nov. 21., she said.  The union has called on the Catholic Church and government
officials to mediate fresh talks with the company. Union leader
Munoz said in a Nov. 22 interview he’s willing to negotiate.  Collahuasi  produced 535,000 metric tons last year, or 3.5
percent of global output, according to Standard Bank Plc. Its
production is only surpassed by Escondida,  Freeport-McMoRan
Copper & Gold Inc.’s  Grasberg mine in Indonesia and Codelco’s
Norte division in Chile.  Anglo American and Xstrata each own 44 percent of
Collahuasi and a group led by  Mitsui & Co.  holds the rest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Craze  in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  