-- Commonfund Risk Chief to Leave at Year-End After Property Fund's 87% Loss
-- B y   G i l l i a n   W e e
-- 2010-11-24T17:36:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/commonfund-risk-chief-to-leave-at-year-end-for-abu-dhabi-fund.html
Commonfund, the nonprofit manager
whose $1 billion property fund lost most of its value, will lose
its Chief Risk Officer  William Martin  Dec. 31, making him at
least the third executive to depart in three months.  Martin is exiting the Wilton, Connecticut, asset manager to
join the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority in the same post,
according to an investor memo obtained by Bloomberg News and
dated yesterday. The note was signed by Chief Executive Officer
 Verne Sedlacek , who didn’t respond to e-mails seeking comment.  Chief Investment Officer  Lyn Hutton , who spent seven years
in that post and almost three decades at Commonfund, resigned
last month from the firm, which is courting public pensions and
expanding its asset-management group for school funds. Timothy
Shine, the head of the 39-year-old Commonfund’s real estate
group, left Oct. 31 as the firm stopped direct property
investments after declines at Commonfund Realty Investors.  Commonfund wrote down the fund’s holdings to close to zero
as capital markets tumbled in the aftermath of  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. ’s September 2008 bankruptcy, two people
briefed on the results said this month. The assets Commonfund
oversees for nonprofits fell 39 percent from two years ago to
about $25.5 billion. The firm restricted withdrawals from $10
billion of cash-management funds in 2008 when clients were being
squeezed by the global financial crisis.  Real Estate  Martin, hired by Commonfund in 2008, will be based in Abu
Dhabi, the Persian Gulf sheikdom whose sovereign-wealth fund is
one of the world’s largest. Commonfund is “actively pursuing a
successor” and expects to name one by year-end, according to
the Nov. 23 investor note.  Commonfund is also being sued by the  Town of Westwood ,
Massachusetts for breach of contract and $1.3 million in
expenses. Westwood, where Commonfund’s property group bought 130
acres of land for $160.4 million between 2005 and 2007, filed a
civil suit on Nov. 23 in Norfolk Superior Court.  Westwood was the biggest investment made by Commonfund
Realty, according to 2008 marketing documents. The group also
invested in Washington, Miami, Chicago, Dallas and California,
and clients included more than 300 not-for-profit investors,
according to the materials.  20 Percent Target  Between 2005 and 2007, Commonfund teamed up with local
partner Cabot, Cabot & Forbes to build  Westwood Station , a 5.5
million square-foot development consisting of 16 office and
warehouse properties. The project was an “opportunity to re-
develop into a master planned development to complement the
affluent nature of Westwood,” according to the document.
Commonfund valued the project at $203.2 million as of Dec. 31,
targeting returns of 15 percent to 20 percent.  After demolishing buildings in 2007, Commonfund
“disturbed” the site and didn’t complete restoration work as
agreed by July 2010, according to the town’s complaint, which is
dated Nov. 22. The town seeks $1.3 million to pay for repair
work and for Commonfund to reimburse expenses of more than
$153,000 that the firm had previously agreed to do, the
complaint said.  The civil suit “has no merit” and Commonfund plans to
“vigorously defend” itself and push for its dismissal, Keith
Luke, a spokesman for Commonfund, said in an e-mail. The firm
intends to “try to revive” its history of cooperation with the
town, Luke said.  Real Estate Losses  The realty fund bought San Francisco office buildings, the
St. Regis hotel project in Dallas and California vineyards,
using debt to help finance the deals. Commonfund and Westport
Capital Partners LLC, the Connecticut firm hired to advise on
debt refinancing, are negotiating terms with lenders including
Dublin-based  Anglo Irish Bank Corp. , said one of the people.  The fund lost 87 percent in the fourth quarter of 2009 and
the first three months of this year. Commonfund didn’t release a
June 30 valuation to clients, the person said.  Eastern Real Estate LLC , a property developer in Woburn,
Massachusetts, agreed to buy Westwood Station, according to an
Oct. 1 press release, which didn’t specify a purchase price.  “Originally planned to include in excess of 4.5 million
square feet of retail, office, residential and hotel space, the
project has stalled in recent years,” the firm said in the
statement. Daniel Doherty, a principal for the firm, didn’t
return phone messages seeking comment. A phone message for Jay
Doherty, chief executive officer for Cabot, Cabot & Forbes in
Boston wasn’t returned.  “Absent any meaningful indication of when new owners could
proceed with development, the town has no alternative but to
take action to protect its interests,” said Chris McKeown,
Westwood’s project manager, in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gillian Wee  in New York at 
 gwee3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 