-- Compass Boosts Dividend by a Third as Profit Advances 15% on Contract Wins
-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 2010-11-24T09:39:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/compass-full-year-profit-gains-15-on-new-business-savings.html
Compass Group Plc , the world’s
largest catering company, said full-year profit rose 15 percent
and increased its  dividend  by a third after gaining new
contracts and cutting costs at acquired businesses.  Net income climbed to 675 million pounds ($1.07 billion) in
the year ended Sept. 30, the Chertsey, England-based company
said today, beating the 655 million-pound average  estimate  of
nine analysts compiled by Bloomberg. The dividend was raised to
17.5 pence a share, compared with the 15 pence average estimate.  “There’s very good scope for further margin improvement,”
Numis Securities analyst  Wyn Ellis  said by telephone. “It has
excellent cash generation.”  Compass rose as much as 3.7 percent in London trading, the
steepest gain in almost four months. The company, which provided
catering services at the U.S. Open Golf Championship, said it
has a “strong pipeline” of new business and plans to make more
acquisitions after spending 205 million pounds on takeovers in
2010, including businesses in France, Brazil and the U.S.  “We have considerable flexibility in our balance sheet,”
Chief Executive Officer  Richard Cousins  said on a conference
call. Compass said it prefers to acquire small- to medium-sized
businesses in countries where it’s already present.  Cost Savings  Unit costs were reduced by a further 20 million pounds in
the year, taking total savings since 2005 to more than 100
million pounds. With a cost base of about 13.5 billion pounds,
Compass has “a lot” more room to cut expenses, Cousins said on
the call, without elaborating.  “We continue to focus on efficiencies, but also believe
that a more sustainable business model will be based upon
reinvestment of some of these efficiencies in revenue growth,”
the company said in a statement. “Our focus therefore is to
strike the right balance between delivering healthy top-line
growth and steady margin expansion.”  Compass  rose as much as 3.7 percent to 547 pence in London
trading, the steepest gain since Aug. 2. The shares were up 4.5
pence, or 0.9 percent, at 532 pence as of 9 a.m.  Revenue excluding acquisitions, disposals and exchange-rate
shifts rose 3.2 percent in the year and the company said its
retention of business improved “slightly” to 93.2 percent.  The caterer has increased so-called organic sales by
winning and renewing contracts with clients including Amazon.com
Inc. in the U.S. and Fuji Xerox in Japan.  Compass said it had 38 million pounds of net new business
growth. Total sales rose 7.6 percent to 14.5 billion pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Armorel Kenna  in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  