-- Consumer, Business Spending Probably Climbed as U.S. Recovery Accelerated
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2010-11-24T05:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/consumer-business-spending-probably-climbed-as-u-s-recovery-accelerated.html
Consumer spending probably picked up
in October while factories received more machinery orders,
showing the U.S. recovery strengthened entering the final
quarter of 2010, economists said before reports today.  Household purchases rose 0.5 percent after a 0.2 percent
gain in September, according to the median estimate of 77
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Another report may show
bookings for  durable goods excluding  cars and aircraft climbed
0.6 percent.  More jobs and bigger paychecks may give consumers the
confidence to boost purchases during the holiday season,
benefitting retailers like  Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  Gains in
household spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of the
economy, would broaden the recovery beyond manufacturing and
make it more sustainable.  “Household confidence in the outlook may be picking up,
with tentative signs of improvement in the labor market,” said
 Zach Pandl , an economist at Nomura Securities International Inc.
in New York. “Business capital spending remains a clear bright
spot in the U.S. recovery.”  The Commerce Department’s spending report is due at 8:30
a.m. in Washington. Bloomberg survey forecasts ranged from gains
of 0.2 percent to 0.8 percent.  Retailers are projecting a better holiday shopping period
and are also boosting discounts to bring more consumers to the
stores. The National Retail Federation has forecast November-
December holiday sales will rise by 2.3 percent from a year ago,
the most since 2006.  Matching Discounts  Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer, said this week it
will match prices listed in competitors’ ads on Black Friday,
the day after Thanksgiving. Savings will begin on Nov. 25
holiday and run through Nov. 27, with deals on electronics, home
items and apparel.  Retail sales  climbed 1.2 percent in October from the prior
month, the most in seven months, the Commerce Department
reported on Nov. 15.  Auto dealers are among retailers seeing demand improve. Car
sales in October rose to a 12.25 million unit annual pace, the
highest since the government’s cash-for-clunkers program in
August 2009, industry data showed this month.  “The sales rate has been improving at a modest rate, each
quarter moving up a little bit,”  George Pipas , U.S. sales
analyst at Ford Motor Co., said on a Nov. 3 conference call.
“October’s results suggest that that trend could continue in
the fourth quarter.”  Business Investment  Companies like  Dell Inc . and  Caterpillar Inc . are among
those benefiting from gains in exports and investments to
replace outmoded equipment. Businesses added 159,000 workers to
payrolls in October, a fourth month of gains exceeding 100,000,
according to Labor Department figures on Nov. 5. Unemployment
held at 9.6 percent.  The Commerce Department’s consumer spending report will
also show personal income rose 0.4 percent last month after
dropping 0.1 percent in September, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed.  The Commerce Department will also release the report on
durable goods at 8:30 a.m. The projected gain in bookings
excluding volatile demand for transportation equipment would
follow a 0.4 percent decline the prior month. Total  durable
goods  orders probably rose 0.1 percent after a 3.5 percent gain
in September, according to economists surveyed.  The strength in investment helps explain why shares of
machinery and parts makers have outperformed the broader index.
The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite  Machinery Index  is up 32
percent this year, compared with a 5.9 percent gain for the
broader  S&P 500 .  Faster Growth  The economy grew at a 2.5 percent annual pace in the third
quarter, more than 2 percent pace estimated last month, the
Commerce Department reported yesterday. Business spending on new
equipment and software advanced at a 17 percent pace and
consumer spending rose by a more-than-forecast 2.8 percent.  Housing, the industry that triggered the worst recession in
seven decades, is struggling to recover.  Demand for  new homes  rose 1.6 percent to a 312,000 annual
pace in October, economists forecast before a 10 a.m. report
from the Commerce Department. Sales in September were 78 percent
below the record reached in July 2005.  Lastly, initial jobless claims fell to 435,000 in the week
ended Nov. 20 from 439,000 the prior week, showing the labor
market is starting to improve, economists forecast the Labor
Department will report at 8:30 a.m.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  