-- Contango on Mideast Oil Disappears on China Diesel Squeeze: Energy Markets
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 2010-11-24T19:18:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/contango-on-mideast-oil-disappears-on-china-diesel-squeeze-energy-markets.html
The 16-month old contango in Dubai
oil, the benchmark grade of crude for Asia, has disappeared as a
shortage of diesel in China puts a premium on the quickest
deliveries of fuel.  The December contract was 20 cents a barrel more  expensive 
than January’s today, reversing a discount that’s been in place
since July 2009, according to data from PVM Oil Associates, a
London-based broker.  A shortage of diesel in China is pushing up the premium for
the fastest deliveries of oil as the nation curbs power use
under a plan by Premier  Wen Jiabao  to cut electricity
consumption per unit of gross domestic product by 20 percent in
the five years through 2010. Stockpiles in the country, the
world’s biggest energy user, fell for a seventh month in
October, according to data from China Oil, Gas & Petrochemicals,
a publication of the state-owned Xinhua News Agency.  “China’s got to be short” of crude oil, said  Alex Yap , an
analyst at FACTS Global Energy in Singapore. “If they want to
do any restocking from November to December, they’ll have to be
importing a lot for the next couple of months.”  Oil imports  dropped 30 percent to a 17-month low of 16.4
million metric tons in October, or about 3.9 million barrels a
day, the General Administration of Customs said Nov. 22. Diesel
inventories declined 11 percent to about 6.2 million tons in
October, data from Xinhua News showed on Nov. 22. They were 11.5
million tons in February.  Diesel Generators  China is suffering a diesel shortage because farmers are
using the fuel to power machinery for the autumn harvest and
factories are seeking alternatives to run generators amid the
electricity curbs, said  Victor Shum , a senior principal at
consultants Purvin & Gertz Inc. in Singapore. The country will
continue conserving energy with a new five-year program in 2011,
the National Development and Reform Commission said on Nov. 22.
The current plan ends next month.  Refiners are boosting processing rates in response to the
squeeze, increasing the need for imports. So-called run rates
rose to 87.4 percent of capacity as of Nov. 11, from 86.9
percent two weeks earlier and 85.7 percent a year ago,
Oilchem.net, a Shandong-based industry website, said on Nov. 12.  A market is said to be in contango when prices for delivery
in the future are higher than those for immediate supplies. The
reverse is called backwardation.  Shortage to End  While prompt-delivery oil in Dubai has gone into
backwardation, other markets remain in contango, suggesting to
traders that any shortage will be short-lived. West Texas
Intermediate for January traded at a discount of 79 cents a
barrel to February at 1:28 p.m. on the New York Mercantile
Exchange, while the front-month North Sea Brent contract was 22
cents lower than the second month on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange.  “I don’t expect this diesel shortage to last very long,”
 Shum  said. “This is due to the pickup in demand from the
agricultural sector and the rationing of electricity to meet a
year-end target, so the backwardation could be a short-term
phenomenon.”  The last time Dubai oil went into backwardation, the
 Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries  was cutting
supplies to boost prices amid the global recession. The group’s
adherence to its output quotas peaked at 89 percent in March
2009 before sliding to 72 percent by July, according to a
monthly Bloomberg survey of OPEC production.  Companies in South Korea and Japan, which depend mostly on
kerosene as winter heating fuel, are also increasing processing
rates. Japanese refiners operated at 82.5 percent of capacity
for the week ended Nov. 13, from 77.5 percent in the previous
week, the country’s Petroleum Association said on Nov. 17.  SK
Energy Co. , South Korea’s largest producer, said on Nov. 1 it
plans to maintain November runs at 82 percent of capacity, or
about 910,000 barrels a day, up from 75 percent in August.  “The demand has been better than expected for the last few
months,” Yap said. “Then you add this China thing and that
would be enough to push the backwardation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christian Schmollinger  in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  