-- Corn, Soybeans Advance on South American Weather, Sustained China Demand
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2010-11-24T07:41:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/corn-soybeans-advance-on-south-american-weather-sustained-china-demand.html
Soybeans advanced for a third day
and corn extended yesterday’s rally as dry weather in South
America may damage grain and oilseed harvests amid strong demand
from China.  January-delivery soybeans gained as much as 0.7 percent to
$12.48 a bushel in Chicago before trading at $12.44 at 2:54 p.m.
Singapore time. Corn for March delivery gained as much as 1.1
percent to $5.49 a bushel before trading at $5.4575.  Dry weather this week will produce a two-month rainfall
deficit of 7 inches (18 centimeters) across fields in South
America, according to T-Storm Weather. A La Nina weather event
has reduced soil moisture, the forecaster said. The U.S. is the
world’s biggest exporter of corn and soybeans, followed by
Brazil and Argentina.  “Corn continues to gain support from the dryness” within
South America, particularly Argentina, said Luke Mathews,
commodity strategist at Commonwealth Bank of Australia in
Sydney. The dry weather in Argentina is also a concern for
soybean crops, he added.  Brazil soybean and corn farmers may face a drought similar
to the one that damaged 13 percent of its grain and oilseed
crops five years ago, said  Expedito Rebello , head of research at
the government’s Meteorology Institute, known as Inmet.  The southern part of Brazil has received below-average rain
since October because of a La Nina weather pattern, raising
concern that crops being planted now will be damaged before next
year’s harvest, Rebello said. Brazil is the world’s second-
largest soybean shipper and third-largest corn exporter.  “Weather in South America could be a main theme for the
coming two weeks as U.S. crops have been harvested and now the
focus is on South America,”  Ker Chung Yang , an analyst at
Phillip Futures Pte., said by phone from Singapore. Prices of
soybeans and corn will likely gain on concern that dry weather
will lower production, he said.  China Demand  Grain prices also advanced on strong demand from China,
even as it attempts to curb inflation, hoarding and speculation
in agricultural markets, Ker said.  The China Banking Regulatory Commission said Nov. 22 it
will increase loans to the agricultural industry with an
emphasis on crops facing shortages, including rice, corn,
vegetables, cotton and sugar.  China’s northeastern Heilongjiang province, the country’s
top supplier of corn and soybeans, said Nov. 23 that large
buyers of grain, including Cofco Ltd., Chinatex Corp. and
foreign-owned companies must report to authorities every five
days on the progress of their purchases in the province.  “This could be part of China’s attempt to stop importers
storing up food,” Ker said.  China agreed to buy 5.5 million metric tons of soybeans
from U.S. companies in a transaction worth almost $3 billion at
current prices, the U.S. Department of Agriculture said Nov. 22.  “China will continue to be a key trading partner as
agriculture contributes to President Obama’s goal of doubling
total U.S. exports over the next five years,” Agriculture
Secretary Tom Vilsack said in a statement.  March-delivery wheat gained as much as 1.1 percent to
$6.885 a bushel in Chicago before trading at $6.87.  The wheat market draws strength from continued concerns
about the dryness existing across part of western Kansas and
Colorado, Mathews said.  Gains could be limited as investors will probably continue
reducing positions ahead of the Thanksgiving holiday this week
and trading volume will likely be subdued in the next few days,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Supunnabul Suwannakij  in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  