-- Cosmo Plans Additional Hiring, Expansion as Korean Pension Money Swells
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 2010-11-24T03:58:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/cosmo-plans-additional-hiring-expansion-as-korean-pension-money-swells.html
Cosmo Investment Management Co. ,
South Korea’s biggest investment advisory firm, plans to hire
more staff in a nation whose pension fund assets are estimated
to grow sevenfold in 10 years.  Cosmo, which manages $3 billion, is considering obtaining
an asset-management license and may add legal compliance, risk
management and product development positions next year, said
Chief Executive Officer  Hahn Sull , who joined the Seoul-based
firm in July and has overseen an increase in assets to a record.  Cosmo is trying to entice Korean pension funds, with at
least 300 trillion won ($265 billion) of assets, as they seek to
invest in one of the world’s cheapest equity markets. Assets
managed by pension funds of Korean companies are estimated to
surge sevenfold in 10 years, according to  Mirae Asset Pension
Research Institute .  “The pension system is quite young here and the likelihood
for the growth of the public pension market is going to be very
strong,” Sull, 44, said in an interview in Seoul on Nov. 22.
“In terms of allocation to domestic equities, it’s going to
continue to be quite strong and the strong performers will be
the ones who will continue to get the inflows.”  Still Attractive  Sull said Korean stocks remain attractive even after
shelling from North Korea yesterday, which sent the nation’s
benchmark Kospi index as much as 2.4 percent lower earlier. The
index traded down 0.5 percent as of 12:50 p.m. in Seoul.  “Unless there’s a severe escalation of tension related to
the attack, we continue to be positive on Korean equities given
attractive valuations and strong fundamentals,” he said today.  Cosmo’s strategy that advises on $1.9 billion of assets,
the firm’s biggest, invests in  Korean stocks  and returned 16
percent this year through October, beating the benchmark Kospi
Index’s 12 percent gain. Clients include public and corporate
pension funds, insurers and high-net worth individuals, said
Sull, who opened Morgan Stanley’s Seoul office in 1992.  The firm currently has 200 separate accounts that offer
strategies for clients individually, Sull said. Cosmo would roll
out one to two of them at the onset based on one of the five
dedicated to  Korean stocks  should it get the asset-management
license, Sull said.  Sull has introduced a new bonus system based on performance
and hired four people for Cosmo’s asset-management business,
including a trader and analysts, after replacing former company
founder  Kevin Choi .  Increasing Assets  Cosmo’s assets have grown 17 percent from $2.56 billion in
July both through inflows and performance to reach its peak,
Sull said. Cosmo is 70.1 percent owned by Japan’s Sparx Group
Co. and the rest by  Lotte Group , operator of South Korea’s
biggest department-store chain.  Korea’s six social security-type pension funds had 315
trillion won under management at the end of 2009, according to
finance ministry documents. The nation introduced a new
corporate pension fund system in 2005 and assets under
management stand at about 21 trillion won, triple the amount in
2009, according to the  Financial Supervisory Service .  By 2020, the funds are expected to grow to about 149
trillion won, according to Mirae Asset Pension Research.  Sull, who has been investing in the Korean market for 14
years, said he expects the corporate pension market to expand
further as more companies introduce defined contribution plans.  ‘Another Growth Area’  “Given the strong cash flows of a lot of corporates and
contributions from employees to this corporate pension scheme,
we think that that could be another growth area for asset-
management companies like ourselves,” said Sull, who was
most recently the founder of OOJOO Capital Partners Pte in
Singapore, where he ran an Asian long-short equity hedge fund.  Cosmo’s main strategy advises on investing in the nation’s
mid-to-large cap equities. It has an annualized gross return of
19.9 percent based on a composite index since 2004, according to
the firm.  The Kospi, which has  gained  14 percent this year, is
trading at 10.9 times estimated earnings, the third lowest in
Asia after Pakistan and Vietnam, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Globally, only a handful of markets, including Spain,
Iceland, Russia, Romania and Cyprus, have lower valuations.  Korean stocks are attractive as companies including
 Samsung Electronics Co.  and Hyundai Motor Co. are expanding
their global market share and stand to benefit from rising
demand from China, Sull said. He estimates profits at Korean
companies to rise 75 percent in 2010, after growing more than 50
percent last year.  “Korea is very attractive at the moment,” Sull said,
adding that Cosmo expects earnings growth to “well exceed” the
10 percent market consensus estimate next year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tomoko Yamazaki  in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
 Komaki Ito  in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net . 