-- CVC-Backed Evonik Said to Near Agreement on Sale of Steag Power Division
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2010-11-24T13:47:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/cvc-backed-evonik-said-to-be-close-to-agreement-on-sale-of-its-energy-unit.html
Evonik Industries AG, the German
chemical company part-owned by CVC Capital Partners Ltd., may
reach a preliminary agreement on the sale of its 3.8 billion-
euro ($5.1 billion) power unit as early as next week, said three
people with knowledge of the matter.  A group of German local energy suppliers led by the city of
Duisburg’s  utility  is looking to acquire 51 percent of the unit,
called Steag, and earmark profits from that holding to help pay
for the remainder if Evonik decides to sell, said one of the
people, who declined to be identified as the process is private.  Energeticky a Prumyslovy Holding AS of the Czech Republic
is the only other competitor for the initial 51 percent stake,
said one of the people. They would be able to buy the remaining
49 percent at a later date, the person said.  Evonik, in which private equity firm CVC holds a 25 percent
stake, is selling Steag to raise funds for its chemicals
business. The buyer would get the fifth-largest portfolio of
electricity generators in Germany, assets in the Philippines,
Turkey and Colombia, as well as a power-plant construction
business.  The German bid would be delayed if Evonik seeks to fix the
price of the secondary stake, as that would require additional
approvals from their municipal owners, said one of people.  Equity Offer  The municipal utilities value Steag at 3.8 billion euros,
including debt, in their bid and have offered about 600 million
euros for 51 percent of the unit’s equity, said one person. The
utilities are the frontrunner to buy Steag, three people with
knowledge of the matter said last month.  Evonik spokeswoman  Barbara Mueller  declined to comment, as
did  Martin Manak , a spokesman for Prague-based EPH, and Dirk
Pomplun, a spokesman for Stadtwerke Essen AG, which speaks for
the group of German utilities.  Stadtwerke Essen’s supervisory board approved its joint bid
with a group of local energy suppliers for a stake in Steag, the
municipal utility said in a Nov. 17 statement on its website.
The Bochum and Dortmund city councils are scheduled to be the
last municipal authorities to decide on the bid when they meet
Dec. 16, Pomplun said.  Politicians from the German states of North Rhine-
Westphalia, Saarland, the federal government as well as the
country’s IG BCE union supervise the management of the RAG
foundation, which owns the remaining 74.9 percent of Evonik. RAG
is trusted with funding Germany’s exit from deep-shaft coal-
mining by selling the industry’s assets as well as Evonik.  RWE AG,  Germany’s second-largest utility, gets some of its
power from Steag under multi-year contracts and the Evonik unit
also operates generators at Royal Dutch Shell Plc and Total SA
refineries in the country, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Comfort  in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  