-- D.E. Shaw's First Wind Holdings Withdraws $240 Million Initial Share Sale
-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 2010-11-24T22:19:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/d-e-shaw-s-first-wind-holdings-withdraws-240-million-initial-share-sale.html
First Wind Holdings Inc. , the
operator of wind-energy projects backed by D.E. Shaw & Co. and
Madison Dearborn Partners LLC, said it withdrew its initial
public offering because of unfavorable market conditions.  The company had already postponed an offering of 12 million
Class A shares at $18 to $20 each last month. Boston-based First
Wind, which planned to use proceeds to pay down  debt  and fund
project development and construction, had earlier cut the per-
share price of its IPO from as much as $26.  Wind turbine installations in the U.S., the world’s biggest
market, dropped 75 percent in the third quarter as slowing
demand for new sources of electricity and cheap natural gas made
renewable energy less attractive, according to the American Wind
Energy Association. First Wind and 60 other companies have
postponed or withdrawn U.S. IPOs this year, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The company withdrew the registration statement for its IPO
“because of unfavorable market conditions that would adversely
affect the offering,” First Wind said today in a filing with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  The operator of wind farms from Maine to Hawaii had hired
 Credit Suisse Group AG  of Zurich, New York-based Morgan Stanley
and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG in Frankfurt
to lead the IPO.  D.E. Shaw  D.E. Shaw, the hedge fund firm started by  David Shaw , was
not planning to sell shares in the offering. The New York-based
fund’s holding of First Wind’s Class A shares would have dropped
to 51 percent from 100 percent, filings show. D.E. Shaw planned
to maintain its 18 percent stake in First Wind’s Class B stock.  Madison Dearborn, the Chicago-based private equity firm,
would have retained its 72 percent stake in First Wind’s Class B
stock after the IPO, according to the filing.  First Wind’s  annual revenue  increased almost fivefold from
2006 to 2009, according to the prospectus. In the nine months
ended Sept. 30, First Wind’s sales climbed 52 percent to $88
million from the same period a year earlier. The company has
accumulated losses of $233 million since its inception.  The withdrawal came after concern that Europe’s debt crisis
and China’s efforts to curb inflation will slow the global
economy helped pushed the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  down as
much as 3.9 percent from a two-year high on Nov. 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cecile Vannucci  in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 