-- Overseas Lenders’ Deposits Increase Amid Irish Crisis
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n   a n d   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2010-11-24T16:10:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/danske-bank-says-deposits-increasing-at-irish-unit-amid-crisis.html
Danske Bank A/S , the owner of
National Irish Bank, said deposits are increasing as clients
move funds from competitors including Bank of Ireland Plc and
 Allied Irish Banks Plc .  “In the current circumstances, we have been seeing an
increase in our deposits,” said Simon Fullam, a spokesman for
Danske’s Irish  unit . He declined to give a figure. “Whilst the
uncertainty of depositors in the Irish banks is understandable,
there are deposit guarantees in place and it is important that
people do not get carried away.”  Irish Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  said today the government
is in talks for a loan of about 85 billion euros ($114 billion)
from the European Union and the International Monetary Fund. The
nation’s banks are fully supported by the European Central Bank,
he said. Even so, Ireland risks a “major bank run” as a
bailout faces a “massive execution risk,” said  Mohamed El- Erian , chief executive officer at Pacific Investment Management
Co., in an interview with Bloomberg’s  Tom Keene  yesterday.  Rabobank Group’s Irish online banking unit has had “a
considerable increase in the number of calls and new account
applications over recent months,” according to Geraldine
McCarthy, a spokeswoman for the bank. “Much of this is due to
our AAA rating, as part of the Rabobank Group.”  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s  Irish unit, Ulster Bank,
isn’t experiencing “any unusual activity” and “deposits are
stable,” Naomi Steen, a spokeswoman for the unit, said today.  ‘Serious Issues’  “The local Irish banking sector has some serious issues
the government is working on to solve,” said  Thomas Borgen ,
head of Danske Bank’s international operations in Copenhagen, in
an e-mailed response to questions today. “We have no view on
the possibility of a run on Irish banks.”  Danske Chief Executive Officer  Peter Straarup  said Sept. 30
that loan losses in Ireland had probably peaked. Impairments in
the country fell 17 percent in the third quarter from a year
earlier to 1.02 billion kroner ($183 million). The Irish unit
lost 942 million kroner before tax in the three-month period,
the 10th consecutive quarterly loss. The bank suffered the
largest loan impairments of any Nordic bank in 2009 amid an
economic slump in Denmark, Ireland and the Baltic states.  Danske’s shares rose 0.6 percent to 145.3 kroner at 5 p.m.
in Copenhagen trading. The company’s stock is up 23 percent this
year. The Irish unit accounted for about 5 percent of total
lending in 2009.  Irish Lenders  “We expect to continue to see high losses during 2011, but
hopefully at lower levels than in 2010,” Borgen said. “As
National Irish Bank is a branch of Danske Bank, being one of the
stronger banks in Europe, we do not expect any negative outflow
on deposits, but rather the opposite.”  The inflows contrast with the outflows suffered by
Ireland’s domestic lenders. Allied Irish, Ireland’s second-
biggest bank, said Nov. 19 that deposits fell 17 percent this
year, as the country’s banks were frozen out of credit markets
and the nation’s sovereign credit ratings were cut. Corporate
deposits at Bank of Ireland and Allied Irish have fallen by a
combined 22 billion euros since the end of June, according to
estimates from  Emer Lang , an analyst at Dublin-based Davy.  Bank of Ireland  and Allied Irish plunged in Dublin this
week as the country’s financial authorities prepare further
capital injections into the banks.  Bank of Ireland  may fall
under majority state control in less than two years, two people
familiar with the matter said yesterday, and the government may
increase its stake in Allied Irish to 99.9 percent, Dublin-based
broadcaster RTE said yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Finbarr Flynn  in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  