-- Bluestar, Datang Said to Delay $2.6 Billion Hong Kong IPOs on Volatility
-- B y   F o x   H u   a n d   J o h n   D u c e
-- 2010-11-24T09:20:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/datang-said-to-delay-unit-s-1-billion-hong-kong-ipo-on-market-volatility.html
Bluestar Adisseo Nutrition Group  and
 China Datang Corp.  delayed initial public offerings in Hong Kong
seeking as much as $2.6 billion because of market volatility,
according to three people familiar with the plans.  Bluestar Adisseo , the animal-nutrition producer backed by
Blackstone Group LP, won’t list shares on Nov. 30 and delayed
pricing plans today, said a person who declined to be identified
because the information is confidential. Market conditions are
affecting the valuation of China Datang Corp.’s renewable energy
unit, said two of the people.  The IPOs would have added to the record $43.9 billion
raised through offerings in Hong Kong this year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg that excludes overallotment options.
The city’s benchmark Hang Seng Index slumped 8.3 percent from
its high this year on Nov. 8 through to a six-week low yesterday
amid concern China will step up measures to curb inflation and
that Ireland’s debt crisis will spread in Europe.  “Since the market started to correct, investors started to
think twice about IPOs,” said  Alex Au , managing director of
Richland Capital Management Ltd. in Hong Kong, which oversees
$300 million of assets. “China tightening has been a big
concern in the market, and Europe debt is certainly also a big
macro event. It’s making people lower their risk appetite.”  IPOs have surged to a record in Hong Kong this year, led by
Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. and AIA Group Ltd.’s sales, as
investors sought stocks benefiting from Asia’s booming
economies. AIA, an insurer that operates in 15 Asian markets,
raised HK$159.1 billion ($20.5 billion) last month.  Agricultural
Bank , China’s fourth-largest by market value, raised HK$93.5
billion from the Hong Kong portion of its initial sale in July.  North Korea, Ireland  Stocks in the region declined today, dragging the  MSCI Asia
Pacific Index  to a one-week low after North Korea shelled South
Korea and Standard & Poor’s lowered Ireland’s credit rating.  The MSCI index has fallen 3.4 percent from a two-year high
set on Nov. 8 amid speculation China will intensify efforts to
curb inflation. Chinese policy makers last week boosted the
amount of money that lenders must set aside for the fifth time
this year.  The IPO delays won’t come “as any great surprise when we
look at what’s happened in the markets in China over the past
week or so,”  Michael Parker , senior analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co., said in Hong Kong.  No Timetable  China New Materials Holdings Ltd., a chemical maker in
eastern China, canceled its IPO press conference today and has
delayed its Hong Kong offering for at least two days, two people
with knowledge of that sale. Calls to the company’s head office
in Zibo city, Shandong province, weren’t answered.  No new timetable has been set for Adisseo, based in Antony,
France, to price its stock, the person familiar with the
company’s IPO said. The company had been seeking about $1.56
billion in its IPO, according to its IPO prospectus. Enquiries
to the company’s Singapore office were referred to the head
office in France, where calls went unanswered.  Blackstone, the world’s largest private-equity company, has
a 20 percent stake in China National Bluestar Group Corp., which
owns Bluestar Adisseo, according to the company’s IPO
prospectus.  China Datang, the nation’s second-largest power producer,
had sought about $1 billion from selling shares in  China Datang
Corp. Renewable Power Co.  amid expectations demand for clean
energy will increase in the nation.  Huang Yuan, head of the news office at China Datang Corp.
in Beijing, didn’t answer calls.  Renewable Resources  The world’s fastest-growing major economy burns coal in
about 80 percent of its power plants and wants at least 15
percent of its energy to come from renewable resources by 2020.
About 17.5 percent of China Datang’s electricity generating
capacity comes from clean energy sources, it said last December.  Declines in the markets have also affected debt issues.
 Hongkong Electric Holdings Ltd.  delayed its dollar bond sale of
as much as $500 million because of tension on the Korean
peninsula, two people familiar with the matter said, at least
the third Asian company to postpone sales this week.  “With the market coming off, investors are becoming more
realistic,” said Richland Capital’s Au.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fox Hu  in Hong Kong at   fhu7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 