-- Direct Edge Adds Share Auction to Flash Orders That SEC Proposed Banning
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2010-11-24T05:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/direct-edge-adds-share-auction-to-flash-orders-that-sec-proposed-banning.html
Direct Edge Holdings LLC, the
fourth-largest U.S. equity exchange, is changing the way it
handles flash orders, the split-second requests to buy or sell
stock that regulators proposed banning last year.  Flash trades drew scrutiny from the Securities and Exchange
Commission because they allow participants on a trading venue to
see equity orders before they’re sent to rival markets. Under
Direct Edge’s plan, buy and sell requests that were previously
flashed would be held for a fortieth of a second while an
auction is held to fill them.  Calls in Congress 16 months ago to ban the practice showed
growing public concern over U.S. exchange structure following a
decade of legislation that reduced the role of humans in making
markets. Direct Edge, which has resisted calls to outlaw flash
orders, outlined its plan in a government filing  published  on
Nov. 18 as a way to improve pricing for investors.  “It’s a product customers have wanted us to pursue and
choose to use every day,” said  William O’Brien , chief executive
officer of Jersey City, New Jersey-based Direct Edge. “Now it’s
a micro auction. We’ve always prided ourselves for being
innovative. It has been enhanced and reborn.”  The SEC proposed prohibiting the orders in securities
markets in September 2009 after NYSE Euronext, automated-trading
firm Getco LLC and Senators  Charles Schumer  and  Ted Kaufman  said
they disadvantaged some investors. The debate followed the
adoption of flash trades by Nasdaq Stock Market and BZX Exchange
to compete with Direct Edge in June 2009. Both stopped
permitting them within three months.  Getting Attention  While the SEC hasn’t yet issued a ruling, the controversy
accelerated a broader review of trading, including the growing
importance of speed in markets and increasing competition among
exchanges. The May 6 plunge, which briefly erased $862 billion
in equity value, fueled the debate.  More than 50 platforms compete for orders in the American
equities market. All are governed by SEC rules that prevent
venues from trading investors’ shares at levels inferior to the
so-called national best bid or offer available to the public.
The flash debate concerns the way market centers competing with
one another handle a segment of the hundreds of thousands of
orders submitted daily by brokers to automated exchanges.  Under the standard, a trading platform may hold an order
for less than half a second before sending it to a competitor
quoting a better price. For someone to execute against it, he
must match or improve the price prevailing in the national
marketplace at that time.  CBOE Stock Exchange, the market that devised the idea of
flash orders for stocks, uses them to allow investors in Chicago
to get quicker executions than waiting for a response from
companies whose computers are based in New York or New Jersey.
CBSX is operated by  CBOE Holdings Inc.   Formal Auctions  While orders about to be sent to other markets are still
shown to select customers under Direct Edge’s plan, they’re no
longer filled on a first-come, first-served basis. Since July,
when Direct Edge’s two venues became exchanges, the best-priced
order at the end of the auction trades against the request if it
can match or exceed the national price.  “In the 25-millisecond period all responses are collected,
and the execution is done on the basis of who provides the best
price,” O’Brien said. The auctions will allow retail
brokerages, trading firms and others to seek better prices on
Direct Edge, he said. “It de-emphasizes speed and re-emphasizes
price and opens the field to a broader array of potential
competition,” he said.  The auctions don’t guarantee executions at Direct Edge.
Orders are routed elsewhere if they can’t be traded at the best
price in the market, O’Brien said.  Supporting a Ban  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.  in New York and Kansas City,
Missouri-based Bats Global Markets, which operates BZX Exchange,
told the SEC they supported a ban on the practice after
withdrawing their versions of flash orders last year. They
agreed with regulators that the orders created a “two-tiered
market” that allowed some investors to receive information not
publicly available to everyone.  Bats’ view that flash orders should be banned hasn’t
changed, said  Chris Isaacson , chief operating officer. Direct
Edge’s initiative renames flash orders and doesn’t guarantee
price improvement to investors, he said.  “We’re disappointed with the SEC’s lack of ruling on the
topic,” Isaacson said. “We’re hopeful they will act.”  TD Ameritrade Holding Corp.  has employed flash orders on
Direct Edge for several years. While less than 1 percent of the
discount broker’s orders sent to Direct Edge use the mechanism,
“it helps lower execution costs while improving or matching the
best available price,” said  Christopher Nagy , managing director
for order strategy at the Omaha, Nebraska-based company.  Small Share  Flash orders on Direct Edge never amounted to more than 1
percent of overall market volume, according to spokesman  Rafi Reguer . O’Brien said they currently account for a “relatively
slight” portion of Direct Edge’s business. Its two exchanges
traded 10.4 percent of U.S. equity volume in October, the
highest level since May and the same as a year ago.  Direct Edge’s proposal resembles an auction system used in
options market and “is a fair and transparent way to get price
improvement to retail orders,” Nagy said.  The SEC  reopened  the public comment period for flash orders
in July to solicit more information about how they’re used in
options after the largest exchanges, market-making firms such as
Chicago-based  Citadel LLC , and retail brokers including TD
Ameritrade argued that they benefit investors.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange and International
Securities Exchange, which operate the largest venues for equity
derivatives, told the SEC flash orders should be permitted in
their industry. The Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association also said it  supports  the orders in options.  NYSE, Getco  NYSE Euronext, which operates the New York Stock Exchange,
argued in letters on  Nov. 23 , 2009, Aug. 9 and Oct. 29 that the
SEC should eliminate flash orders. The company and Getco told
the SEC that flashed orders can be abused by firms taking
advantage of the information they contain and create a
disincentive for market makers to provide quotes at the best
prices since they may not lead to executions.  Eric Ryan , a spokesman for NYSE Euronext, declined to
comment, as did  Silvia Davi  of Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.  Direct Edge also plans to integrate its auction into what’s
called its continuous order book, which comprises the buy and
sell trading requests sent to the exchange for automatic
execution. Six months after the SEC approves the company’s rule
proposal, Direct Edge will enable orders sent to its platforms
to interact with buy and sell interest participating in the
auctions, the company said.  “We’re always mindful when submitting new proposals to do
that in light of where regulations are heading,” O’Brien said
about his market’s micro-auctions for stocks. “We feel these
proposals are good business and good regulation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nina Mehta  in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 