-- Dollar, Yen Weaken as Asian Stocks Pare Losses, UN Calls for Korea Talks
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 2010-11-24T07:02:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/dollar-falls-as-asian-stocks-pare-losses-united-nations-urges-koreas-talk.html
The dollar and the yen weakened
against the euro, snapping two-day gains, as Asian stocks pared
losses and the United Nations called for talks with North Korea
over its shelling of a South Korean island.  Europe’s currency rose from a two-month low versus the
greenback as some analysts said Standard & Poor’s two-notch
downgrade of Ireland’s debt rating was less than they expected,
and as technical indicators signaled the common currency’s
decline yesterday was too rapid. Australia’s dollar rallied
after its steepest drop this month on optimism the nation’s
growth will weather Ireland’s debt crisis and Korean tensions.  “Unless there’s another round, then the pressure is off
and the whole North Korean issue becomes a distant memory very
quickly,” said  Robert Ryan , a Singapore-based currency
strategist at BNP Paribas SA, referring to the Korean conflict.
“As things settle down, we could see the risk currencies drift
back up again.”  The dollar declined to $1.3396 per euro as of 6:55 a.m. in
London from $1.3367 in New York yesterday, when it rose 2
percent, the most since Aug. 11. The yen weakened to 111.42 per
euro from 111.16. The U.S. currency traded at 83.15 yen from
83.16 yen.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific  Index of shares trimmed its loss to
0.4 percent after earlier dropping as much as 1.3 percent.  Proposed Talks  The UN Command proposed North Korea’s military hold talks
between officers at the rank of general over the country
launched artillery shells at a South Korean island yesterday,
the UN said today in an e-mailed statement.  South Korea said today it will supply “ample” liquidity
in local and foreign currencies if needed to shield markets from
any shocks after North Korea’s attack.  Fitch Ratings said it isn’t considering “negative rating
action” for South Korea. Fitch, which recently affirmed South
Korea’s A+ rating with a stable outlook, believes an escalation
of hostilities is in nobody’s interests,  Andrew Colquhoun , head
of Asia-Pacific sovereigns, wrote today in an e-mailed response
to questions.  The euro climbed from near a one-week low against the Swiss
franc after S&P’s announced it has lowered Ireland’s rating.  “The magnitude of S&P’s downgrade of Ireland was probably
more modest than some anticipated,” said  Todd Elmer , Singapore-
based head of Group-of-10 currency strategy for Asia ex-Japan at
Citigroup Inc. “This can be viewed as a slight positive for the
euro.”  Ireland Downgrade  S&P cut Ireland’s long-term sovereign rating to A from AA-,
and the short-term grade was lowered to A-1 from A-1+, according
to today’s statement. S&P said Ireland’s rating may be lowered
again if negotiations over aid from the International Monetary
Fund and European Union, or the nation’s budget fail to ease a
funding crunch.  The euro traded at 1.3336 francs from 1.3330 yesterday,
when it fell to 1.3296 francs, the weakest since Nov. 12.  The euro’s 14-day stochastic oscillator chart against the
dollar declined to about 4 today, below the level of 20 that
signals the 16-nation currency is poised to strengthen.  “The single currency’s slide yesterday was sharp and it
looks oversold,” said  Lee Wai Tuck , a currency strategist at
Forecast Pte in Singapore. “We may see a bounce.”  Australian Dollar  Australia’s dollar gained versus the greenback and the yen
on speculation the global economic remains on track,
underpinning demand for higher-yielding assets.  Germany’s Ifo institute will say today its business climate
index was at 107.5 in November, from 107.6 in October, which was
the highest since May 2007, according to a Bloomberg News survey.
U.S. consumer spending rose 0.5 percent in October after a 0.2
percent gain in September, another Bloomberg survey showed
before today’s report.  “Developments in Ireland and the Koreas won’t change the
fact that the global economy is recovering gradually,” said
 Masashi Murata , vice president of foreign exchange in Tokyo at
BBH Investment Services Inc., a unit of New York-based Brown
Brothers Harriman & Co. “People should buy the Aussie against
the euro. Commodity currencies are set to be bought on dips.”  Australia’s currency advanced 0.8 percent to 97.96 U.S.
cents, after sliding 1.7 percent yesterday, the most since Oct.
19. The so-called Aussie rose 0.8 percent to 81.49 yen.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  said it was “turning bearish” on the
yen for the first time in three years as the global economic
recovery and central bank stimulus boost demand for risk assets.  Japan’s currency will fall against most of its major
counterparts in 2011, with larger declines against commodity and
emerging-market currencies, wrote  Tohru Sasaki , head of Japan
rates and foreign-exchange research and  Junya Tanase , chief
currency strategist, in a note to clients.  The yen is likely to decline to 115 per euro by the end of
next year, JPMorgan predicted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
 Ron Harui  in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 