-- Drexler's Obsession to Detail Helps Him Triumph With J Crew TPG Takeover
-- B y   B u r t   H e l m   a n d   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2010-11-24T21:03:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/drexler-s-obsession-to-detail-helps-him-triumph-with-j-crew-tpg-takeover.html
Mickey Drexler  put $10 million of
his own money into  J. Crew Group Inc.  when he took over its top
job in 2003. As he overhauled the New York retailer, he
personally reviewed every item of clothing sold, every model in
the catalog and every new employee.  Now the 66-year-old son of a New York button buyer stands
to profit from his obsessiveness. He agreed yesterday to a $3
billion takeover by TPG Capital and Leonard Green & Partners
that values his stake at about $150 million, 15 times his
original investment.  Drexler, J. Crew’s  largest individual shareholder ,
“morphed the company into what it is today,” Jeffry Aronsson,
chairman of Aronsson Group LLC and former CEO of Donna Karan
International, said in a telephone interview. The former Gap
Inc. CEO doubled J. Crew sales to more than $1.5 billion during
his tenure, replacing some of the signature preppy gear with
stylish dresses and accessories that attracted customers
including U.S. First Lady Michelle Obama.  J. Crew isn’t Drexler’s only retail success. The executive
first began crafting his reputation at the Ann Taylor chain in
the 1980s. During the seven years that he ran San Francisco-
based Gap, sales climbed more than four-fold to $14.5 billion.
He also put more emphasis on marketing and launched the lower-
priced Old Navy brand.  ‘Obsessive’  “He totally trusts his gut, and he’s obsessive about
details,” said  Hal Reiter , the executive recruiter for New
York-based Herbert Mines Associates, who led the search for
Drexler’s Gap replacement in 2002. “He’ll question and question
and question and question until he gets the answer that
satisfies what he needs.”  Drexler holds about 3.45 million shares, or 5.4 percent of
J. Crew, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. He also has
options to acquire another 5.1 million, according to regulatory
filings.  J. Crew fell 29 cents to $43.70 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. Yesterday the stock advanced 17
percent following news of the acquisition. The shares have
fallen 1.7 percent this year before today. J. Crew declined to
make Drexler available for an interview.  When Drexler arrived at J. Crew seven years ago, he was the
fourth CEO in five years. Revenue had slumped since 1997, when
TPG Capital acquired a majority stake. Even as preppy clothing
lost currency with fashionistas, the chain had hewed to low-
priced preppy basics such as slacks and skirts.  Whimsical  Drexler took J. Crew upscale. He ditched apparel emblazoned
with J. Crew’s oar logo, adding women’s jackets, frilly blouses,
and cashmere and sequined sweaters. He introduced understated
garments with whimsical accents, a wedding line and cocktail
apparel. Even as the chain continued selling lower-priced
basics, he raised the prices of new items.  The new-look strategy hasn’t always worked for Drexler.
After he opted for fashion-forward items at Gap instead of the
basic khakis and t-shirts that had long defined the brand,
comparable sales fell for 10 straight quarters. In September
2002, the board replaced him with former Walt Disney Co.
executive  Paul Pressler .  By contrast, Drexler’s changes at J. Crew generated buzz.
In 2008, Michelle Obama appeared in a yellow J. Crew ensemble on
“The Tonight Show” with  Jay Leno . She also outfitted the first
daughters in J. Crew’s children’s line, called Crewcuts, at the
inauguration of her husband, President Barack Obama.  Weathered Aftermath  Return customers like Michelle Obama have helped push J.
Crew’s sales growth up an average of 16 percent a year since
Drexler took the company public in 2006. The chain also has
weathered the aftermath of the recession better than some
rivals, Laura Champine, an analyst at Cowen & Co. in New York
said in a telephone interview.  “J. Crew had a nice, casual look that sold well during the
downturn,” said Champine. “During that period,  J. Crew  was a
better merchant” than rivals like Banana Republic and Ann
Taylor.  Now, sales growth has slowed, and some analysts say J. Crew
may not be changing its fashions fast enough. Last month,
Christine Chen, a Needham & Co. analyst based in San Francisco,
cut profit estimates, blaming “a lack of dramatic fashion
newness.” Earlier in the fall, the company discounted sweaters
by 20 percent, a practice it tends to avoid, Champine said.  Yesterday J. Crew lowered its full-year earnings outlook
for the second time this year, saying it would have to rely on
promotions more than anticipated. Sales at stores open more than
12 months fell 1 percent in the latest quarter.  ‘Struggle’  “I can see a struggle there to refocus,” Dudley Blossom,
chairman of the marketing and management department of LIM
College, a fashion business school in New York, said in a
telephone interview. “When they first launched, they were
focused on the younger customer aged 18 to 24, and they seemed
to be tracking those people.” As a result, J Crew began
catering to an older customer rather than the original
demographic, he said.  Under the terms of the deal, J. Crew’s  board  has through
Jan. 15 to review alternative bids. While TPG and Los Angeles-
based Leonard Green yesterday emphasized that Drexler would stay
on as chief, a separate offer might limit his control, according
to WSL Strategic Retail’s Wendy Liebmann.  “I wonder if this is a defensive action, as someone else
might have come along and poached them and then he would really
lose control,” said Liebmann, CEO of the New York-based
consulting firm.  So long as Drexler remains at the helm of J. Crew, he’ll
keep the same obsessive approach, said Reiter.  “I don’t think it’s going to change the way Mickey runs
the business.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Burt Helm  in New York at 
 bhelm3@bloomberg.net ;
 Cotten Timberlake  in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  