-- Drink Like the French, Avoid Binges to Spare Heart, Study Says
-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r
-- 2010-11-24T12:51:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/drink-like-the-french-avoid-belfast-binges-to-spare-heart-study-finds.html
The French habit of drinking wine
almost daily is less taxing to the heart than the Irish custom
of downing an equivalent amount of alcohol on one or two nights
a week, a  study  suggests.  Middle-aged men in Belfast had almost double the risk of
developing heart disease compared with French drinkers who
spread their consumption over a week, according to the study
published today by the British Medical Journal. The researchers
compared the intake of units of pure alcohol, which is found at
higher concentrations in wine and spirits than in beer.  The findings bolster those of previous studies suggesting a
link between ischemic heart disease, a condition in which blood
supply to the heart is decreased, and drinking patterns such as
bingeing. Having four or more drinks in a short period of time
is more common in northern European countries and the U.S.,
according to the researchers.  “Certain groups lose the cardioprotective effect of
alcohol when drinking in a binge pattern,”  Annie Britton , an
epidemiologist at University College London, who wrote an
accompanying  editorial , said in a telephone interview yesterday.  The study, led by  Jean Ferrieres  of Toulouse University,
used data gathered over 10 years from almost 10,000 men in the
French cities of Lille, Strasbourg and Toulouse, and compared it
with information gathered in Belfast, Northern Ireland.  Heart Risk  The researchers asked the participants about the amount of
alcohol they drank on a weekly and daily basis. The binge
drinkers, who consumed the majority of their alcohol on one or
two days, had almost twice the risk of heart attack or death
from heart diseases compared with regular drinkers, the study
found.  In France, the men drank 255 grams (9 ounces) of alcohol a
week, compared with 282 grams for the Irish. In Belfast, mean
consumption was two to three times as high on weekends, the
study said. The researchers defined binge drinking as consuming
more than 50 grams of alcohol over a short period of time.  U.S. guidelines recommend not more than one drink a day for
women, and two drinks a day for men, according to the current
 Dietary Guidelines for Americans , published by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services. A standard drink is 0.6
ounces of pure alcohol, which is found in 12 ounces of beer, 8
ounces of malt liquor or 5 ounces of wine, according to the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.  Drinking Patterns  The biological effect of different drinking patterns on the
heart isn’t quite clear yet, Britton said. Bingeing may make it
more likely for the heart to beat infrequently and change low
density lipoprotein or “bad” cholesterol. Steady alcohol
intake may lead to favorable changes in high density lipoprotein
or “good” blood lipids.  “We are not even close to understanding the biological
mechanism behind this,” she said.  The study didn’t track the drinkers’ diets, which may play
a role in their heart health, Britton said.  “You can imagine Belfast guys drinking several pints and
then not having the most healthful of meals,” Britton said.  The protective effect of French drinking may also be due to
the beverage, the study said, as wine has been found to protect
against heart disease.  All drinkers should be aware that they are at greater risk
of many other diseases, such as liver cirrhosis, pancreatitis
and several kinds of cancer, Britton said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eva von Schaper  in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 