-- Dubai May Cede Control of Alliance Medical to Lenders in Debt-Equity Swap
-- B y   I s a b e l l   W i t t
-- 2010-11-24T10:52:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/dubai-may-cede-control-of-alliance-medical-to-lenders-in-debt-equity-swap.html
Dubai International Capital LLC, a
buyout company owned by the Emirate, may lose control of
medical imaging company Alliance Medical Ltd. to lenders in a
debt-for-equity swap, three people familiar with the plan said.  Under a debt restructuring proposed by senior lenders,
creditors including Lloyds TSB Bank Plc, Commerzbank AG and
Prudential Plc’s M&G unit would seize the company in exchange
for writing its debt down to 250 million pounds ($395 million)
from 555 million pounds, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the plan is private.  Dubai International may retain some shares in the company,
the people said. Junior lenders, owed 140 million pounds, may
also be allotted some shares rather than recouping their initial
investment. Senior creditors may initiate legal proceedings at
the U.K.’s High Court if the plan is opposed by junior lenders
and Dubai International’s management, the people said.  An external Alliance Medical spokesman, who didn’t want
to be identified citing company policy, declined to comment.
Fiona Micallef-Eynaud, a London-based spokeswoman for Dubai
International, declined to comment.  Dubai is struggling to revive its companies as it recovers
from the worst financial crisis since the 1930s. Dubai
International is selling assets over five years and
restructuring $2.6 billion of debt.  New Loan Proposed  Alliance Medical’s lenders proposed to provide the
Warwickshire, England-based company a super-senior ranking loan
for 60 million pounds at 10 percentage points over benchmark
rates, the people said.  Alliance Medical’s lenders agreed to waive debt covenants
in May to give the company time to reorganize its debt after
sales were crimped by healthcare cuts. Blackstone Group LP
valued the company at 300 million pounds to 340 million pounds
after it was hired to find potential buyers, a person with
knowledge of the plan said Aug. 25. Dubai International paid 600
million pounds for the company in 2007.  Alliance Medical provides scanning services to diagnose
cancer, X-rays and ultrasounds for health providers including
the U.K.’s National Health Service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Isabell Witt  in London at 
 iwitt4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 Fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 