-- DuPont to Pay $80 Million for Medical Monitoring, Lawyers Say
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   C h r i s   S t r a t t o n
-- 2010-11-24T03:34:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/dupont-to-pay-80-million-for-medical-monitoring-of-residents-lawyers-say.html
DuPont Co.  will pay as much as
$80 million for medical monitoring to a class of West Virginia
residents who claimed they were exposed to toxic substances from
a company smelting facility, plaintiffs’ attorneys said.  DuPont  said today it would pay $70 million to settle the
lawsuit brought by people who lived near the company’s former
facility in Spelter, West Virginia. The company also said it
would establish a limited medical monitoring program, providing
testing and check-ups for 30 years, without specifying the value
of this part of the agreement.  “This is a medical monitoring program for as many as 8,500
people,” said Farrest Taylor, a lawyer for the residents who
estimated this additional cost of the DuPont settlement at about
$80 million. “Its doesn’t take long until you run into a fairly
substantial expense.”  The settlement ends a lawsuit that brought a $251.7 million
jury  verdict  in 2007, the fifth largest of that year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The jury also ordered medical
monitoring, and in 2008 West Virginia Circuit Court Judge Thomas
Bedell set the cost of this at $129.6 million.  The West Virginia Supreme Court later reduced the verdict
and ordered a new trial on whether the residents waited too long
to bring their claims. The trial, scheduled for March, was
averted by the settlement.  The value of the medical monitoring portion of the
agreement is “not yet known,” Dan Turner, a spokesman for
Wilmington, Delaware-based  DuPont , said.  Open Enrollment  “We can’t comment on what that number’s going to be,” he
said in an interview. There will be an open enrollment for six
months. The settlement lays out a pay-as-you-go process.”  The trial on the statute of limitations may have erased all
claims against DuPont, Turner said.  The plaintiffs base their estimate of the value of the
medical monitoring on Bedell’s 2008 decision covering a program
lasting 40 years. The settlement covers “30 years instead of
40, with the only limitation that CT scans are not routine,”
said Taylor, of Dothan, Alabama.  “The medical monitoring portion doesn’t have a cap,” said
plaintiffs’ attorney Keith Givens, also of Dothan. “In essence,
they’re paying the court-ordered amount.”  The Harrison County residents sued DuPont in 2004, claiming
exposure to toxic substances from the smelter. They pursued the
case as a class-action, or group, suit for owners of about 3,000
properties, as well as about 8,500 people.  Class members will be notified by mail and by public ads of
the proposed settlement, DuPont said today in a statement. A
court hearing is tentatively set for Dec. 30, the company said.  “DuPont is pleased to reach an agreement that places our
focus on the Spelter site and the community and not on lengthy
and contentious legal proceedings,”  Thomas L. Sager , the
company’s general counsel, said in the statement.  The case is Perrine v. DuPont, 04-C-295-2, Circuit Court,
Harrison County, West Virginia (Clarksburg).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Stratton  in Logan, West Virginia, at 
 chrisstratton2010@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 