-- Dynegy May Sell in Pieces After Blackstone Bid Fails
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2010-11-24T21:04:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/dynegy-set-to-turn-to-piecemeal-sale-as-blackstone-bid-fails.html
Dynegy Inc. , the third-largest U.S.
independent power producer, may need to sell itself piece by
piece after  Blackstone Group LP ’s $604.5 million offer to
buy the whole company was rejected, analysts said.  A majority of shareholders in Houston-based Dynegy, heeding
opposition from  Carl Icahn  and hedge fund Seneca Capital,
yesterday voted down the $5-a-share Blackstone bid. The company
is seeking a new buyer and proposed immediate talks with Icahn
and Seneca, its two largest shareholders. Dynegy also said it
would consider asset sales, cost cutting and debt restructuring
to remain a standalone company.  Dynegy’s  board  erred in trying to find buyers for the whole
company, rather than selling off individual plants to those
willing to pay a premium, said  Charles Fishman , an analyst for
Pritchard Capital Partners LLC. The failed bid, valued at $4.77
billion with debt, included an agreement for Blackstone to sell
two Dynegy power plants to NRG Energy Inc. for $1.36 billion,
more than twice the cash offer price for the whole company.  “One of the problems here is that the board set up a
system that rewarded management for finding a buyer as opposed
to breaking the company apart,” St. Louis-based Fishman, who
 rates  Dynegy shares at “buy” and owns none, said yesterday in
an interview. Breaking up Dynegy is “the way to do this
thing,” he said.  Selling Assets  The company may be worth $9 a share if it’s broken apart,
Fishman wrote in a note to clients yesterday. Selling off the
company’s assets could take several years and provide more value
to shareholders, he wrote.  The  shares  rose 13 cents, or 2.6 percent, to $5.13 at 4:02
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Dynegy closed
at an eight-year low of $2.78 a share the day before the
Blackstone offer was announced on Aug. 13.  Dynegy sought a buyer for two years before the Blackstone
offer and contacted 42 potential bidders during the month after
the agreement was announced, according to a Nov. 18  filing .
Eight of those approached signed confidentiality agreements. No
counteroffers emerged.  The company yesterday adopted a plan that would protect it
from a takeover that isn’t approved by the board. The plan goes
too far in limiting additional purchases of stock, Seneca said
in a statement today.  NRG agreed as part of the Blackstone bid to buy Dynegy’s
natural-gas fired plants in California and Maine. NRG didn’t
want the whole company and it would offer Dynegy less for the
plants now because power prices have fallen, NRG Chief Executive
Officer  David Crane  told investors in a Nov. 4 conference call.  Icahn Bid?  Meredith Moore , a spokeswoman for Princeton, New Jersey-
based NRG, didn’t respond to a voicemail message seeking
comment.  Icahn, Dynegy’s largest shareholder, said in a Nov. 16
statement he might bid in a new auction. Sale of the entire
company at more than $4.50 a share within 18 months would
trigger a $16.3 million payment to Blackstone under terms of a
revised $5-a-share offer accepted by Dynegy’s board last week.  Icahn didn’t return phone calls seeking comment.  Seneca has proposed selling plants and refinancing debt.
Chief Investment Officer  Scott Pearl , a former Credit Suisse
First Boston utility analyst, has assembled a team that can find
buyers and put together deals as markets for power and fuel
improve, Fishman said.  Dynegy may get a buyout offer of more than $6 a share from
Seneca and another investor, the Wall Street Journal reported,
citing unidentified people, and without naming the other bidder.  ‘Highly’ Doubtful Bid  Dynegy “has been on the block for years and we highly
doubt that a superior offer will be coming, especially from
strategic investors,”  Angie Storozynski , a New York-based
analyst for Macquarie Capital USA Inc., said in a note
yesterday.  She cut her price target to $4 from $4.50 and downgraded
the stock to “underperform” from “neutral,” saying the
company’s debt and low forward power prices may cause it to lag
peers.  In its campaign against Blackstone’s bid, Seneca proposed
nominating  E. Hunter Harrison , former chief executive officer of
Canadian National Railway Co., and  Jeff Hunter , chief financial
officer of closely held US Power Generating Co., to replace two
people on Dynegy’s six-member board. Dynegy yesterday offered
Seneca one seat on an expanded seven-member board.  Seneca reiterated today that it was seeking two board
seats.  Cutting Costs  Barclay’s Capital analyst  Greg Orrill  raised his target
price for the stock to $6 from $5, predicting Dynegy will find
$50 million in additional cost cuts next year and earn as much
as $150 million on the plants Blackstone had planned to sell,
according to a note to clients yesterday.  Dynegy owns plants in seven U.S. states with capacity to
power about 9.8 million average U.S. homes. The company may sell
plants and use the proceeds to buy back portions of its $4.5
billion of debt at a discount,  Andy DeVries , an analyst for
CreditSights Inc. in New York, said in an e-mail.  Interest payments consumed about 12 percent of Dynegy’s
third-quarter sales, contributing to its  sixth quarterly loss  in
two years. It has forecast negative cash flow of $1.6 billion
during the next five years to pay debt and keep its plants
running.  NRG and Calpine Corp. are the two largest U.S. independent
power producers.  Dynegy is relying on the same set of advisers it used for
the Blackstone offer for its newest round of bid solicitation.
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Greenhill & Co. are Dynegy’s
financial advisers and Sullivan & Cromwell LLP is legal counsel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
 Noah Buhayar  in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 