-- E.ON Said to Ask Barclays, JPMorgan to Advise on U.K. Grid Sale
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2010-11-24T14:42:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/e-on-said-to-ask-barclays-jpmorgan-to-advise-on-u-k-grid-sale.html
E.ON AG , the world’s largest
utility, is working with Barclays Capital and JPMorgan Chase &
Co. on the possible sale of its U.K. power grid, according to
two people with knowledge of the matter.  The banks were asked to advise the utility on options after
the Canada Pension Plan Investment Board approached E.ON about
buying the asset, another person said. The Canadian pension plan
was part of a group that lost out on the sale of Electricite de
France SA’s U.K. network, bought by Cheung Kong Infrastructure
Holdings earlier this month.  The utility, based in Dusseldorf, Germany, is considering a
sale of U.K. electricity lines as part of a plan to sell 15
billion euros ($20 billion) of assets by the end of 2013 to
lower debt, said the people, who asked to remain anonymous as
E.ON’s plans are private. The U.K. grid could fetch as much as
3.6 billion pounds ($5.7 billion), one of the people said.  E.ON spokesman  Josef Nelles  couldn’t immediately be reached
for comment. A Barclays Capital spokesman wouldn’t comment. Axel
Luedeke, based spokesman for JPMorgan in Frankfurt, declined to
comment, as did Linda Sims, a spokeswoman for Canada Pension
Plan.  E.ON wants to slash debt and raise funds for growth outside
Europe, where it faces stagnant demand and levies from
governments seeking to plug deficits. A sale of the grid would
follow Paris-based Electricite de France SA’s 5.8 billion pound,
including debt, sale of its U.K. power lines to a group led by
 Li Ka-shing ’s Cheung Kong Infrastructure.  ‘Predictable Returns’  Canada Pension is interested in power transmission assets
as they represent “stable, predictable return streams,” Chief
Executive Officer  David Denison  said in a Nov. 10 telephone
interview. He declined to comment on whether the pension fund is
interested in E.ON’s U.K. grid. The fund was mentioned as a
possible buyer by the London-based Sunday Times this month.  E.ON, the world’s largest utility by sales, wants to raise
15 billion euros through asset disposals by the end of 2013,
Chief Executive Officer  Johannes Teyssen  said Nov. 10, without
specifying which businesses the company will sell.  The utility is considering selling its U.K. power grid,
 Bernhard Reutersberg , the company’s board member for regional
units, distribution and retail, said the same day.  E.ON has electricity networks in Germany, the U.K., Sweden
and eastern Europe. The utility agreed to sell its high-voltage
grid in Germany to TenneT Holding BV last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brett Foley  in London at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net 
 Nicholas Comfort  in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net 
Jeff St.Onge at   jstonge@bloomberg.net  