-- ECB May Delay Exit Again as EU Bailout of Ireland Fails to Stem Contagion
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2010-11-25T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/ecb-may-be-forced-to-delay-exit-from-emergency-aid-as-debt-crisis-worsens.html
The  European Central Bank  may have
to delay its exit from emergency measures again as Ireland’s
bailout fails to stem the region’s sovereign debt crisis.  Investors are dumping Spanish and Portuguese bonds on
concern they will have to follow Ireland and Greece in asking
for European Union bailouts, making it more difficult for the
ECB to proceed with its withdrawal of liquidity support for
banks. Some economists now doubt the ECB will be able to signal
a move back to limited auctions of three-month loans, which they
regard as the next likely step in the bank’s exit, when policy
makers meet next week in Frankfurt.  “We can no longer be very categorical on this point given
the engulfing crisis in the periphery and the desire of the ECB
to avoid exacerbating it,” said  Julian Callow , chief European
economist at Barclays Capital in London. “We should prepare for
the distinct possibility that the ECB realizes the timing would
be bad and so avoids taking actions that could inflame an
already inflammatory situation.”  Surging bond yields in  Greece , Ireland,  Portugal  and Spain
suggest investors are losing confidence in the ability of
European leaders to contain the debt crisis, even after they
agreed to rescue Ireland. At the same time, Germany’s economy
expanded at the fastest pace since reunification in the second
quarter and a report yesterday showed business confidence jumped
to a record this month. That’s prompting ECB policy makers
including  Axel Weber ,  Juergen Stark  and  Yves Mersch  to say
they’re anxious to proceed with the withdrawal of stimulus.  December Rendezvous  President  Jean-Claude Trichet  has said a decision on the
next step will be made at the Dec. 2 meeting. Finnish finance
minister  Jyrki Katainen  said Nov. 22 that the ECB should not
withdraw support measures until Ireland has restructured its
banks. At the moment, the ECB lends banks all the cash they need
for periods of one week, one month and three months at its
benchmark rate of 1 percent.  The ECB’s 22 council members must weigh the risk of
destabilizing Europe’s debt-strapped economies by making it more
costly for their banks to borrow against the danger of over-
stimulating faster-growing countries like Germany by leaving
policy loose for too long.  “It’s such a close call,” said  Carsten Brzeski , an
economist at ING Group in Brussels who used to work at the
European Commission. “The ECB doesn’t want to be seen to be
held hostage by markets and politicians. At the same time, going
ahead with the exit on non-conventional measures will be viewed
as a signal for tighter policy going forward, and that is going
to upset markets.”  Exit Interrupted  While the ECB has withdrawn some of its crisis measures,
such as 12- and 6-month loans to banks, it back-pedaled on its
exit in May after Greece’s debt crisis threatened the survival
of the euro. The central bank cancelled plans to end its
provision of unlimited three-month loans and also started  buying
government bonds  to calm markets.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s push for investors to
foot more of the bill in future EU bailouts has sparked a new
selloff on bond markets, making it more expensive for
governments to refinance their debts and forcing Ireland to seek
rescue funds on Nov. 21.  The extra yield demanded by investors to hold  Spanish  10-
year bonds over German bunds rose to a record 249 basis points
yesterday, while the  Irish yield spread  widened for a fourth
day, climbing to 618 basis points. That’s close to a record 652
basis points set on Nov. 11.  Prudent Exit  ECB Executive Board member Stark nevertheless reiterated
this week that the bank intends to proceed with its exit. While
there are tensions in some areas, confidence is generally
returning to financial markets, he said.  Luxembourg’s Mersch told CNBC in an interview broadcast
yesterday that the ECB will “continue on our gradual and
prudent exit strategy,” while  Nout Wellink  of the Netherlands
said banks can’t rely on ECB funds forever, Trends magazine
reported.  “The ECB will probably have to think hard about the
strategy it is pursuing because to some extent it is those
discussions about the need to go fairly fast on monetary policy
normalization that triggered this kind of market turmoil,” said
 Gilles Moec , an economist at Deutsche Bank AG in London.  Still, “the ECB is reaching the limit of its mandate,”
said  Guillaume Menuet , senior European economist at Bank of
America Merrill Lynch in London. Policy makers “will probably
go back to a variable-rate tender on the three-month loan on a
generous allocation to placate the more hawkish members.”  Ken Wattret , chief euro-area economist at BNP Paribas in
London, said he wouldn’t be surprised if the ECB took another
exit step next week, “given what we are hearing from some
council members.”  “But common sense might prevail,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gabi Thesing  in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  