-- Medical Injuries Harm 18% of Hospital Patients in N.C., Researchers Find
-- B y   D a v i d   O l m o s
-- 2010-11-24T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/medical-injuries-harm-18-of-hospital-patients-in-n-c-researchers-find.html
Almost one in five hospital patients
was injured by their care, according to a study of 10 U.S.
hospitals that found little improvement from industry and
government efforts to improve safety.  The six-year study of 2,341 hospital admissions in North
Carolina found that 18 percent of patients suffered at least one
safety-related incident, ranging from minor injuries with little
harm to life-threatening mistakes and fourteen deaths. The rate
of injuries did not decrease significantly from 2002 to 2007,
researchers reported in the study published today in the  New
England Journal of Medicine .  Efforts to improve patient safety intensified in the U.S.
after a 1999  report  by the Institute of Medicine found that
medical errors caused as many as 98,000 deaths and more than 1
million injuries each year. North Carolina hospitals have been
active members of a national campaign of medical centers,
insurers and government agencies to reduce the mistakes, said
 Christopher Landrigan , a researcher at Brigham and Women’s
Hospital in Boston who led the study.  “The rate is high, but it’s not higher than we expected,”
Landrigan said in a Nov. 23 telephone interview. “The main
point is things are not getting better. This is a wake-up call
for the health-care system to address this issue in a more
timely fashion.”  The North Carolina hospitals were chosen because the state
is considered a leader in efforts to improve patient safety,
said Landrigan. He led the study team from Harvard Medical
School-affiliated  Brigham and Women’s Hospital  in Boston,
Stanford University Medical School near Palo Alto, California,
and the  Institute for Healthcare Improvement , a nonprofit
research and advocacy group in Cambridge, Massachusetts.  Preventing Injuries  North Carolina has increased its efforts to reduce medical
injuries since the study ended in December 2007. The researchers
reviewed medical records beginning in January 2002 from 10
hospitals selected at random, Landrigan said.  “Obviously, one harm to one patient is more than we would
like to see,” Don Dalton, a spokesman for the  North Carolina
Hospital Association , a trade group representing 128 hospitals
and health systems, said yesterday in a telephone interview.
“We are proud of the efforts that our hospitals have made
across the board to improve their quality.”  Overall, the study found 588 medical injuries were reported
involving 423 patients, as some experienced more than one
injury. Of the total incidents, 50 were considered life-
threatening and 17 resulted in permanent harm, in addition to
the 14 deaths attributed to the injuries, the researchers found.  Potential Solutions  Wider use of electronic medical records and improved
methods for tracking patient safety are among the practices that
may reduce errors over time, Landrigan said.  “Although the absence of large-scale improvement is a
cause for concern, it is not evidence that current efforts to
improve safety are futile,” Landrigan and colleagues wrote.  The study confirms that more progress needs to be made
nationally, Diane Pinakiewicz, president of the  National Patient
Safety Foundation  in Boston, said in a telephone interview.  “We are a lot better than we were when we first starting
hearing about this problem and didn’t understand it,”
Pinakiewicz said. “There is a huge amount of work to do, and
the improvement rate is not as rapid as we would like it to
be.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Olmos  in San Francisco at 
 dolmos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 Rgale5@bloomberg.net  