-- Egypt's Ruling Party Tightens Grip as Mubarak Succession Nears
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2010-11-25T13:10:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/egypt-s-ruling-party-tightens-grip-before-vote-as-mubarak-succession-nears.html
Egypt’s ruling party is poised to
sweep the Nov. 28 parliamentary election, tightening its grip on
power as it prepares for a 2011 presidential vote that may see
the first change of leadership in three decades.  Police have detained hundreds of supporters campaigning for
the Muslim Brotherhood, the country’s biggest opposition group,
in the run-up to the election, in what the Islamist movement
says is part of the ruling National Democratic Party’s efforts
to drive it out of politics. The Brotherhood said Nov. 22 that
police had detained more than 1,200 of its supporters.  “The regime doesn’t want things to get out of hand ahead
of the presidential election,” said Amr El-Shobaki, a senior
analyst at the Al Ahram Center for Political and Strategic
Studies, a Cairo-based research group. “It’s why they are
clamping down on the opposition now.”  President  Hosni Mubarak  has no designated successor or a
vice president, a fact that has fueled concern about the
stability of Egypt, which the 82-year-old has ruled since 1981.
A succession crisis in the Arab world’s most populous country
may spark political unrest and hurt foreign investment inflows
necessary for economic growth and job creation.  When the president, who hasn’t announced whether he will
seek another six-year term, underwent surgery to remove his
gallbladder in March, investors dumped Egyptian shares. The
benchmark EGX30  index  lost 6.7 percent in a week. It has shed a
further 0.5 percent since April.  Grooming Gamal  “You have a crisis of decision making in Egypt because of
the issue of succession,” said  John Sfakianakis , the Riyadh-
based chief economist of Banque Saudi Fransi. The longer Mubarak
takes to decide if he’ll run, the harder it will be for the
government to carry out necessary economic measures such as
cutting energy subsidies, Sfakianakis said by telephone.  Opposition movements say that Mubarak has been grooming his
son Gamal to succeed him. Both have denied that, saying a multi-
candidate electoral system introduced in 2005 has made the
political process more transparent.  Safwat El-Sherif , secretary-general of the NDP, raised the
possibility that the president might not seek another term when
he said in August that the elder Mubarak will be the party’s
presidential candidate only if he chooses to run. El-Sherif
spoke in an interview carried by the state-run Middle East News
Agency.  Gamal Mubarak , the assistant secretary-general, has avoided
giving clear answers on the subject. He told a television
interviewer this month that he wasn’t driven by “personal
ambition.”  Suleiman, ElBaradei  Intelligence chief  Omar Suleiman  has been mentioned by the
London-based Economist Intelligence Unit as a possible
presidential contender.  Mohamed ElBaradei , the former head of
the United Nations nuclear agency, said in February he would run
if the government removed constitutional restrictions on
independent candidates.  The younger Mubarak has been at the forefront of economic
policies initiated in 2004, including the reduction of income
tax and a program to sell state assets to foreign companies such
as Turin-based Intesa Sanpaolo SpA, Italy’s second-biggest bank.
This helped boost foreign investment and accelerated economic
growth to an average of 7 percent in the three years before the
onset of the global financial crisis in 2008.  Gamal Mubarak’s critics say that the changes have widened
the gap between the country’s rich and poor and left the latter
grappling with an inflation rate that has exceeded 10 percent in
the past two years.  The government’s “overriding” objective will be to
maintain economic growth and job creation, though “concerns
over political unrest are likely to slow progress in some key
areas,” the Economist Intelligence Unit said in a report on
Nov. 10.  Economic Pledges  Over the past two months, the 47-year-old Gamal, a former
investment banker, has campaigned to promote the party’s
economic program for the next five years. The pledges include
reducing the budget deficit to as little as 3 percent of gross
domestic product from 8.1 percent in the fiscal year that ended
in June, along with doubling the wages of public-sector workers.
The government agreed this month to raise the monthly minimum
wage to 400 pounds ($69) from just 35 pounds.  Other NDP policies, such as reducing subsidies, may prove
less popular. Discontent over the rising cost of living and low
wages sparked riots in 2008.  Analysts including El-Shobaki say the NDP will increase its
absolute majority in parliament in the Nov. 28 vote. The Muslim
Brotherhood, which won a fifth of the seats five years ago in
its best showing, has nominated about 130 candidates for the
508-seat assembly, compared with more than 800 fielded by the
NDP. The Brotherhood has accused the ruling party of rigging the
vote, a charge the NDP denies.  Brotherhood Banned  As it is officially banned, the Muslim Brotherhood has to
field its candidates as independents. The NDP said yesterday
that it filed a complaint with the public prosecutor, accusing
“members of an illegal organization,” the term it usually uses
to refer to the Brotherhood, of violating the law by running for
parliament.  The government rejected a U.S. call this month to allow
international observers to monitor the balloting, saying that
its  election commission  and civil society groups are capable of
doing the job.  The ruling party “doesn’t want pluralism, nor does it want
democracy,” said Essam El-Erian, a member of the Brotherhood’s
top executive council, in a telephone interview in Cairo. “It
wants a fake stability, stability on top of a volcano.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alaa Shahine  in Cairo at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  