-- Emerging Stocks Rise as U.S. Data Outweighs Ireland Crisis, Korea Conflict
-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2010-11-24T16:00:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/emerging-stocks-rise-as-u-s-data-outweighs-ireland-crisis-korea-conflict.html
Emerging-market stocks rose after
U.S. data showing signs of a strengthening economic recovery
tempered concern over Ireland’s debt crisis and conflict on the
Korean peninsula.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  rose 0.5 percent to
1,095.43 at 10:44 a.m. New York time, after having earlier
fallen as much as 0.8 percent. Brazil’s  Bovespa  stock index
gained 2.1 percent. India’s  Sensitive Index  retreated 1.2
percent to its lowest level since Sept. 16. South Korea’s won
weakened 0.4 percent after falling as much as 3.1 percent
following yesterday’s North Korean attack on the South.  Applications for U.S. unemployment benefits fell more than
forecast last week to the lowest level since July 2008, Labor
Department data showed. Consumer spending rose in October, the
Commerce Department said. Standard & Poor’s cut Ireland’s long-
term credit rating to A from AA-, with a negative outlook. The
cut came as Ireland’s government tried to hammer out an aid
package with the European Union and the International Monetary
Fund to rescue its banks.  “There are lots of things on the backburner that could
certainly ignite fairly quickly, with Korea, with the Irish
situation and the ongoing risks to global recovery,” said  Nigel Rendell , senior emerging-market strategist at RBC Capital in
London. “There is certainly a great temptation for some people
who’ve made money over the past few months to cash in some of
their profits.”  India Investigation  Banks and property stocks led the retreat in India, after
Bloomberg UTV reported India’s Central Bureau of Investigation
was probing real estate companies.  State Bank of India  fell 3.5
percent.  The difference between the return investors demand from
emerging-market bonds and U.S. Treasuries narrowed 14 basis
points to 2.46 percentage points, according to the JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  EMBI+  index. The spread on Argentine debt narrowed
28 basis points after its government asked the IMF to help
design a new consumer price index yesterday.  In Brazil, stocks rose after a report from the Getulio
Vargas Foundation in Rio de Janeiro showed its seasonally
adjusted consumer-confidence index rose to the highest level
since at least 2005. There was also speculation a new central
bank chief will further contain inflation.  Chile’s  IPSA  stock index gained 0.9 percent, Argentina’s
 Merval  rose 2 percent.  Turkey’s  ISE 100 National Index  rose 1.4 percent,
rebounding from a 7.2 percent slide between its all-time high
reached on Nov. 9 and yesterday, after Fitch Ratings upgraded
the country’s outlook to positive.  The lira appreciated 0.7 percent and the real gained 0.9
percent.  Korean Stocks  South Korea’s  Kospi  index lost 0.2 percent after the
country exchanged artillery fire with its northern neighbor
yesterday. The country scrambled fighter jets and returned fire
after North Korea yesterday lobbed shells at an island near the
border, setting houses ablaze in the worst attack in at least
eight months.  Korean Air Lines Co.  dropped 2 percent.  Huneed
Technologies , a military equipment manufacturer, rose 4.9
percent, while  Speco Co. , a Seoul-based military installation
parts developer, jumped 14.9 percent.  South Korea’s finance ministry said today it will supply
“ample” liquidity if needed to keep financial markets stable
and is prepared to act to counter “herd” behavior.  Russia’s Micex stock index gained 1.5 percent.  Copper for three-month delivery  climbed as much as 1.8
percent in London today, following three straight days of
losses. Oil gained as much as 1.4 percent to $82.40 a barrel in
New York.  China’s  Shanghai Composite Index  advanced 1.1 percent. It
had lost more than 10 percent as of yesterday from an almost
seven-month high reached on Nov. 8 on concern that accelerated
monetary tightening will crimp economic growth.  ICBC Rights Offer  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , the world’s
largest bank by market value, lost 10 percent as it resumed
trading after a rights offer. It was the biggest drag on the
 Shanghai Composite , which slumped 6.2 percent during the stock’s
weeklong suspension.  ICBC raised 33.67 billion yuan ($5.06 billion) in the
Shanghai part of a rights offer that was 99.72 percent
subscribed. The lender is also selling about 11 billion yuan of
stock in Hong Kong.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Webb  in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Weiyi Lim in Taipei at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  