-- Emerging-Market Stocks Fluctuate Amid Korea Tension; China Shares Rebound
-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2010-11-24T13:16:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/emerging-market-stocks-slide-on-s-p-ireland-downgrade-korean-conflict.html
Emerging-market stocks fell on
concern Ireland’s debt crisis and conflict on the Korean
peninsula risks hindering the world economic recovery.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  slipped 0.1 percent to
1,089.10 as of 1:13 p.m. in London, headed for the lowest close
since Oct. 1. India’s  Sensitive Index  retreated 1.2 percent to
its lowest level since Sept. 16. Dubai’s  DFM General Index  fell
1 percent. South Korea’s won weakened 0.4 percent after falling
as much as 3 percent following yesterday’s North Korean attack
on the South.  S&P cut Ireland’s long-term credit rating to A from AA-,
with a negative outlook. The move came as the Irish government
was trying to hammer out an aid package with the European Union
and the International Monetary Fund to rescue its banks.  “There are lots of things on the backburner that could
certainly ignite fairly quickly, with Korea, with the Irish
situation and the ongoing risks to global recovery,” said  Nigel Rendell , senior emerging-market strategist at RBC Capital in
London. “There is certainly a great temptation for some people
who’ve made money over the past few months to cash in some of
their profits.”  Banks and property stocks led the retreat in India, after
Bloomberg UTV reported India’s Central Bureau of Investigation
was probing real estate companies.  State Bank of India  fell 3.5
percent.  The difference between the return investors demand from
emerging-market bonds and U.S. Treasuries narrowed 6 basis
points to 2.55 percentage points, according to the JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  EMBI+  index. The spread on Argentine debt narrowed
22 basis points after its government asked the IMF to help
design a new consumer price index yesterday.  Bovespa stock-index futures gained 0.9 percent after a
report from the Getulio Vargas Foundation in Rio de Janeiro
showed its seasonally adjusted consumer-confidence index rose to
the highest level since at least 2005.  Turkey’s  ISE 100 National Index  gained 0.5 percent,
rebounding from a 7.2 percent slide between its all-time high
reached on Nov. 9 and yesterday, after Fitch Ratings upgraded
the country’s outlook to positive.  The lira appreciated 0.5 percent and the real gained 0.5
percent.  Korean Stocks  South Korea’s  Kospi  index lost 0.2 percent after exchanging
artillery fire with its northern neighbor yesterday. The country
scrambled fighter jets and returned fire after North Korea
yesterday lobbed shells at an island near the border, setting
houses ablaze in the  worst attack in at least eight months.  Korean Air Lines Co.  dropped 2 percent.  Huneed
Technologies , a military equipment manufacturer, rose 4.9
percent, while  Speco Co. , a Seoul-based military installation
parts developer, jumped 15 percent.  South Korea’s finance ministry said today it will supply
“ample” liquidity if needed to keep financial markets stable
and is prepared to act to counter “herd” behavior.  Russia’s Micex stock index gained 0.6 percent.  Copper for three-month delivery  climbed as much as 1.8
percent in London today, following three straight days of
losses. Oil gained as much as 0.8 percent to $81.88 a barrel in
New York.  China’s  Shanghai Composite Index  advanced 1.1 percent. It
had lost more than 10 percent as of yesterday from an almost
seven-month high reached on Nov. 8 on concern that accelerated
monetary tightening will crimp economic growth.  ICBC Rights Offer  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , the world’s
largest bank by market value, lost 10 percent as it resumed
trading after a rights offer. It was the biggest drag on the
 Shanghai Composite , which slumped 6.2 percent during the stock’s
weeklong suspension.  ICBC raised 33.67 billion yuan ($5.06 billion) in the
Shanghai part of a rights offer that was 99.72 percent
subscribed. The lender is also selling about 11 billion yuan of
stock in Hong Kong.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Webb  in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Weiyi Lim in Taipei at   Wlim26@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  