-- Emerging-Market Stocks Fluctuate Amid Korea Tension; China Shares Rebound
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2010-11-24T06:56:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/emerging-market-stocks-fluctuate-amid-korea-tension-china-shares-rebound.html
Emerging-market stocks fluctuated,
as a selloff after North Korea’s attack on the South yesterday
was offset by a rebound in Chinese shares amid speculation that
recent declines were excessive.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  slipped 0.1 percent to
1,088.96 as of 2:55 p.m. in Taipei after tumbling 2.1 percent
yesterday, the most since June. South Korea’s Kospi index closed
0.2 percent lower while the won fell 0.4 percent, paring most of
their earlier losses. China’s  Shanghai Composite Index  advanced
1.1 percent while benchmark indexes retreated in Taiwan, the
Philippines and Indonesia.  Korean Air Lines Co.  dropped 2 percent, pacing declines in
Seoul. Jiangxi Copper Co. climbed 1.8 percent and  PetroChina Co. 
gained 0.7 percent in Shanghai as metal and oil prices rebounded.  “The shock is starting to fade so the impact may be
limited,” said  Lee Young Seog , a Seoul-based portfolio manager
with Korea Investment Trust Management Co., which manages about
$7 billion in equities. “Foreign and institutional investors
are seeing the plunge in stocks as an opportunity to buy.”  Korean Air dropped the most in eight days.  LG Corp. , the
holding company of South Korea’s fourth-largest family run
industrial group, fell 1.2 percent. The  won  weakened to 1,142.25
per dollar and touched 1,172.50, the lowest level since Sept. 9.  North Korea fired artillery shells yesterday at the South
Korean island of Yeonpyeong near the disputed border between the
two countries, killing two soldiers and setting houses ablaze in
the worst attack on its neighbor in at least eight months. The
clash came 11 days after North Korea showed a uranium-enrichment
plant to visiting U.S. scientists.  Defense Stocks Gain  South Korea’s finance ministry said today it will supply
“ample” liquidity if needed to keep financial markets stable
and is prepared to act to counter “herd” behavior. Moody’s
Investors Service said in an e-mail today the nation’s credit
rating won’t be affected by the attack.  Losses were capped by a rally in defense stocks.  Huneed
Technologies , a military equipment manufacturer, rose 4.9
percent while  Speco Co. , a Seoul-based military installation
parts developer, jumped 15 percent.  The  Shanghai Composite , which tracks the bigger of China’s
stock exchanges, rose for the first time in three days. The
gauge had lost more than 10 percent as of yesterday since
reaching an almost seven-month high on Nov. 8 on concern that
accelerated monetary tightening will crimp economic growth.  “The market will stabilize at this level as the previous
sell-off has digested much of the risks arising from policy
tightening,” said  Wang Zheng , chief investment officer at
Jingxi Investment Management Co. in Shanghai.  Metals, Oil  Jiangxi Copper, the country’s biggest producer of the metal,
yesterday fell to its lowest level in almost two months.
 PetroChina , the nation’s largest oil producer snapped a three-
day losing streak.  Copper for three-month delivery climbed as much as 1.8
percent in London today, following three straight days of losses.
Oil gained as much as 0.6 percent to $81.77 a barrel in New York.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , the world’s
largest bank by market value, lost 10 percent as it resumed
trading. It was the biggest drag on the  Shanghai Composite ,
which slumped 6.2 percent during the stock’s weeklong suspension.  ICBC raised 33.67 billion yuan ($5.06 billion) in the
Shanghai part of a rights offer that was 99.72 percent
subscribed. The lender is also selling about 11 billion yuan of
stock in Hong Kong.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Taipei at   Wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  