-- Emerging Markets Are `Long Way' From Bubble, Van Agtmael Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2010-11-24T17:26:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/emerging-markets-a-long-way-from-bubble-says-investor-who-coined-the-term.html
Emerging-market stock valuations are
a “long way” from bubble levels and the shares will outperform
developed markets amid faster economic growth, said  Antoine van Agtmael , who coined the term “emerging markets” in 1981.  Van Agtmael, who warned of “bubbly” emerging-market
stocks four weeks before the  benchmark index  peaked in 2007,
said he doesn’t have the same concern today because valuations
are below long-term averages and near those of slower-growing
developed countries. Emerging economies will expand three times
faster than advanced nations in the next few years, he said.  Money managers and economists from Grantham Mayo Van
Otterloo & Co.’s  Jeremy Grantham  to New York University’s
Nouriel Roubini have said in the past month that bubbles are
forming in emerging markets as record-low interest rates in the
developed world drive investors to faster-growing economies to
seek higher yields. The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  of shares in
21 developing countries has climbed 10 percent this year,
following a record 75 percent advance in 2009.  “To say that we are in a stock-market bubble is completely
wrong,” van Agtmael, who oversees about $12 billion as chairman
and chief investment officer at Emerging Markets Management LLC,
said in a phone interview. “Could we be heading toward a
bubble? Absolutely, but we still have a long way to go.”  Fund Inflows  The MSCI emerging-market index’s price-to-earnings  ratio  of
14 is lower than its average level of 16 since 1996 and compares
with the ratio of 15 for the  MSCI World Index  of developed-
nation shares, according to data compiled by MSCI Inc. and
Bloomberg. The emerging-market benchmark index outperformed the
developed-world gauge by 6.1 percentage points this year and by
48 percentage points last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “I continue to be bullish on a three, five, 10 and 25-year
basis, but for the next 6 to 12 months it’s hard to say,” van
Agtmael said. “My guess is emerging markets will outperform,
but the difference isn’t going to be like it was in 2009.”  Faster  earnings growth  and strengthening currencies will
drive the outperformance of developing-nation stocks in the next
few years and global money managers will increase their
allocations as emerging markets produce a larger share of the
world’s output, van Agtmael said.  Investors have poured more than $75 billion into emerging-
market equity mutual funds this year, compared with $15 billion
for U.S. stock funds, JPMorgan Chase & Co. wrote in a Nov. 19
research report.  ‘Third World’  “Most people are underinvested in emerging markets,” van
Agtmael said. “Everyone now seems to realize that 10 to 15
years from now emerging markets will be as important to the
global economy as developed markets.”  The Arlington, Virginia-based investor said in an interview
with Bloomberg Television on Oct. 1, 2007, that some emerging
markets including China had climbed too high. The MSCI emerging-
market index  peaked  on Oct. 29, 2007, and the gauge tumbled 66
percent over the next year for its worst bear market. China’s
Shanghai Composite Index sank as much as 72 percent.  Van Agtmael predicted the rally in a March 19, 2009
interview, saying emerging-market shares had been dragged down
to the cheapest levels in his 30-year investing career. The MSCI
gauge has advanced more than 90 percent since then. The gauge
rose 0.4 percent to 1,094.50 at 12:13 p.m. in New York today.  “The markets are not quite as exciting as they were, but
returns are still compounding faster than in the developed
world,” van Agtmael said.  Emerging markets were widely known as “third-world”
countries before 1981.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Patterson in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  