-- Merck's Risky Bet on Heart Drugs May Yield Lipitor-Like Success
-- B y   T o m   R a n d a l l
-- 2010-11-24T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/merck-s-risky-bet-on-heart-drugs-may-yield-pills-with-lipitor-like-success.html
When  Pfizer Inc.  abandoned a
cholesterol pill four years ago after spending $1 billion to
develop it,  Richard Clark ,  Merck & Co. ’s chief executive
officer, was tempted to give up on a similar drug in testing.  Both companies had spent years pursuing powerful new
treatments designed to boost the good cholesterol that ferries
fat from the bloodstream even as they reduce bad cholesterol.
The goal was to give doctors a new way to combat the world’s
biggest killer, cardiovascular disease. Then, in 2006, a study
found that Pfizer’s product, torcetrapib, raised blood pressure
and caused more heart attacks, not fewer.  New York-based Pfizer stopped developing its product and
left Merck, of Whitehouse Station, New Jersey, at a crossroads,
 Bloomberg Businessweek  reports in its Nov. 29 issue. If Merck
proceeded with its pill, it risked spending hundreds of millions
of dollars more on a failure. If Merck quit, it risked throwing
away what might become the world’s most valuable medicine.  “There was a huge debate at every level from the research
teams to the top levels of leadership,” said  Luciano Rossetti ,
Merck’s senior vice president of global scientific strategy, in
a telephone interview. “It was a high-stakes game.”  The experimental pills are in a new family known as CETP
inhibitors. For six months, Merck’s researchers examined and re-
examined their version, called anacetrapib, in test tubes and in
lab rats. The results came up positive; the drug didn’t raise
blood pressure in animals. Clark decided that Merck, a leader in
heart research for 50 years, would press ahead.  Unprecedented Success  That gamble paid off. Last week Merck officials told
thousands of heart doctors gathered in Chicago for the  American
Heart Association ’s annual meeting that new data showed
anacetrapib reduced bad cholesterol by 40 percent. The pill also
raised good cholesterol by an unprecedented 138 percent,
according to a company-sponsored study of 1,623 patients.  “This is totally unprecedented territory,” said
 Christopher P. Cannon , a cardiologist at Brigham & Women’s
Hospital in Boston and the study’s lead researcher. “If what we
are seeing now is borne out in larger studies, this could be the
next big thing that could benefit hundreds of millions of
people.”  For Merck, after a decade of high-risk research,
anacetrapib is one of four cardiovascular treatments in final
testing that each have the potential for at least $1 billion in
yearly sales by 2016, according to  Robert Hazlett , an analyst at
BMO Capital Markets in New York. Two of the drugs  target
cholesterol , and two aim to prevent blood clots.  $35 Billion Market  Pfizer and Merck, the two biggest U.S. drugmakers, have
been locked in a 25-year battle to dominate the cholesterol
market, one of the highest-stakes pharmaceutical businesses. New
drugs in that area cost more than $1 billion each to develop,
and worldwide sales last year topped $35 billion, according to
IMS Health Inc., a research company in Norwalk, Connecticut.  The standard treatments for high cholesterol, called
 statins , reduce LDL, the bad cholesterol that clogs arteries and
causes heart attacks. In 1987, Merck received regulatory
approval to market the first statin, Mevacor. Pfizer followed a
decade later with Lipitor, a drug that soon eclipsed Merck’s
statins to become the world’s best-selling medicine.  Lipitor has been hard to beat, so pharmaceutical companies
in search of new blockbuster drugs have been shifting their
research focus to maladies such as cancer and Alzheimer’s
disease, where breakthroughs may be easier to come by. In
January, Pfizer itself said it would narrow its drug-development
pipeline to 500 projects in six illness areas; cardiovascular
disease wasn’t one.  That tips the balance in favor of  Merck , whose late-stage
cardiovascular trials involve about 120,000 patients.  Uninterrupted Efforts  “Our efforts in this field have been uninterrupted,”
Merck’s Rossetti said. “We believe that Merck is going to be
the leader.”  In the area of preventing blood clots, Merck researchers
say their experimental pill called vorapaxar may achieve the
ultimate goal of a  blood thinner : to lower the risk of heart
attack and stroke without causing excessive bleeding.  The company plans to seek U.S. approval of the medicine
next year, pending results of a 40,000-patient study. That means
the drug might be available around the time Plavix, the leading
blood thinner with $10 billion in worldwide sales, is set to go
off patent. Plavix is made by New York-based  Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co.  and Paris-based Sanofi-Aventis SA.  Side Effects  Some patients had to be removed from the anacetrapib trial
because their  bad cholesterol  dropped too much; the next study
will need to determine if there is a limit where the drug
becomes harmful. With vorapaxar, the biggest risk is that along
with preventing clots, the blood thinner will cause patients to
bleed unnecessarily, BMO’s Hazlett said. As with any drug study,
additional risks from either drug may yet arise.  If the drugs aren’t sidelined by side effects,  anacetrapib
and vorapaxar  each have the potential to exceed $5 billion in
yearly sales, Hazlett said in a telephone interview.
Anacetrapib, if it works in a final study of 30,000 patients,
may even accomplish what no other drug in history has been able
to do: outsell Lipitor.  “Other organizations have notably pulled back, and to
their credit,  Merck  has continued to focus, taking good, well-
calculated bets” Hazlett said. “They are certainly in a
position to reap the rewards of that sustained investment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Randall  in New York at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  