-- Merkel Push for Tougher Terms on Government Bonds Adds to Europe's Turmoil
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2010-11-24T15:20:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/merkel-wants-buyers-to-have-liability-clauses-on-euro-area-bonds-from-2011.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  is
pushing a plan to force investors to accept tougher terms on
government bond purchases, deepening the turmoil across euro-
region debt markets.  The premium on  Spanish debt  over German bunds rose to a
euro-era record today and Portugal’s bonds dropped on investors’
concern the countries will have to follow Ireland and Greece and
ask the European Union for rescue funds. While Spanish Finance
Minister  Elena Salgado  argues there’s “absolutely” no risk of
that, Spain today froze a plan to sell state-guaranteed power-
revenue bonds, people with knowledge of the situation said.  Merkel’s drive for investors to foot more of the bill of
future bailouts has reignited a sovereign debt crisis that
threatened to rip the euro region apart in May. It has also
sparked criticism from the European Central Bank and governments
in Ireland and Spain. A government paper obtained by Bloomberg
News shows Germany may press buyers of new euro-region bonds to
accept liability clauses starting in 2011, two years before a
revamped crisis-management system kicks in.  “I don’t know what her game is,” said  Alan McQuaid , chief
economist at Bloxham Stockbrokers in Dublin. “I don’t think the
comments help whatsoever in terms of what’s going on in markets.
The fire is on the way, it’s getting into the forest already.”  Merkel yesterday pushed the euro to a three-month low,
after saying that the currency faces an “exceptionally
serious” situation.  Irritation  “That irritates me,” European Central Bank Governing
Council member  Ewald Nowotny  told Austria’s ORF television late
yesterday. “The euro is not in danger. Individual countries,
and the banking systems of these countries, are in danger. You
have to make the distinction.”  The currency rose 0.3 percent to $1.3403 at 3:56 p.m. in
Berlin after dropping 1.9 percent yesterday. The extra yield
that investors demand to hold Spanish 10-year bonds over German
counterparts rose 4 basis points to 238 basis points today. The
yield on  Portugal’s 10-year bond  gained 12 basis points to 7.18
percent as of 4:11 p.m. in Berlin.  Bonds have plunged across the euro region’s periphery this
month, forcing Ireland on Nov. 21 to turn to the EU and the
International Monetary Fund for a bailout package. Prime
Minister  Brian Cowen  unveiled plans today to cut spending by
about 20 percent and raise taxes over the next four years, as
talks near conclusion on a bailout worth 85 billion euros ($113
billion). Ireland’s debt rating was lowered two steps to A from
AA- by Standard & Poor’s late yesterday.  ‘Speculative Attack’  In Spain, the government froze the start of its 13.5
billion-euro program to sell power-revenue bonds until
government debt market volatility abates, people with direct
knowledge of the transaction said. The decision came hours after
Salgado dismissed the risks of Spain needing aid.  Asked in an interview on Punto Radio in Madrid today if
Spain would need a bailout, Salgado said “absolutely not.” The
euro faces “speculative attacks” which Spain is in the “best
conditions to resist,” she said.  “To avoid a spreading disaster, the comforting statements
issued by European ministers in recent days must be urgently
translated into meaningful actions,”  Mohamed El-Erian , chief
executive officer at Pacific Investment Management Co., wrote in
the  Financial Times  today.  ‘Primacy of Politics’  Merkel reiterated her push today for a permanent crisis-
resolution mechanism for the euro region from 2013, telling
lawmakers in parliament there’s a need to assert the “primacy
of politics” over markets.  A Finance Ministry document said that the “blanket”
introduction of standardized collective-action clauses for all
government bonds issued in the 16-nation euro region would be
“unproblematic” and should begin next year.  “These are working papers and it’s not sensible to
conflate working papers that represent a preliminary assessment
reflecting certain considerations with the position of the
government,” Merkel’s chief spokesman,  Steffen Seibert , told
reporters in Berlin today.  The government’s proposal “looks inconsistent with the
implicit bail-out tool that runs to 2013,”  Kornelius Purps , a
fixed-income strategist at UniCredit SpA in Munich, said by
phone. “Stamping new bonds’ standardized-liability clauses from
2013 may make eminent sense, but this proposal may cause even
more nervousness.”  Unexpected Surge  The latest stage of the European crisis is showing few
signs of hurting Germany’s economy. German business confidence
unexpectedly surged to a record high in November as domestic
spending increased, the Ifo economic institute said today.
Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc gained for the third straight
week in a Forsa poll to the highest since May 11, when support
leaked away during the Greek crisis.  Some economists defended Merkel’s stance, with Harvard
University Professor Kenneth Rogoff saying she’s “basically on
the right side of the debate.”  “It’s true the German position has brought forward the
problems, but Merkel rightly recognized there is no escaping
these problems and they have to be confronted,” said Rogoff,
who said in April that other countries would follow Greece and
ask for aid. “Even her raising the restructuring idea was a
very good thing. It needs to be addressed while it’s still
manageable.”  New Mechanism  Finance ministers from Germany, France, Italy, Spain and
the U.K. said in a statement distributed in Seoul on Nov. 12
that “any new mechanism would only come into effect after mid-
2013 with no impact whatsoever on the current arrangements.” A
permanent mechanism, including the potential for bondholders to
be held accountable, won’t apply to outstanding debt, they said.  According to the government paper, in the event of a
sovereign debt crisis as happened in Greece, as a first step the
clauses would result in the payment period for government bonds
being extended. If the solvency problem continued, additional
steps would be considered, including “further extension,
interest-rate cuts and a reduction in the nominal value” on the
bond, the paper said.  Germany is seeking to shape the permanent euro-area safety
net before an EU summit next month when leaders are due to
discuss the plan. The permanent mechanism is intended to replace
the 750 billion-euro rescue fund set up in May in a bid to halt
the debt crisis spreading from Greece.  “The last thing that financial markets need to hear right
now is piecemeal information,” said  Nick Kounis , head of macro
research at ABN Amro Bank in Amsterdam. “European policymakers
need to get a hold of this crisis before it starts moving
towards bigger and bigger countries. Merkel’s remarks go in
exactly the opposite direction.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian Parkin  in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
 Rainer Buergin  in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  