-- Merkel Seeks to Impose `Boundaries' for Markets to Sway Fellow EU Leaders
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2010-11-24T13:41:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/merkel-seeks-boundaries-for-bondholders-in-euro-rescue-push.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said
European governments must demand that bondholders share the cost
of euro-area debt crises after 2013 because financial markets
need “boundaries.”  “We have a very decisive question ahead of us,” Merkel
said in a speech to parliament in Berlin today. “Do politicians
have the courage to place the risk burden on those who make
money? Or is trading in sovereign debt the only business in the
world in which there is no need to take risk?”  Merkel is stepping up her insistence on what she called
“the primacy of politics” over markets as she seeks to rally
fellow European Union leaders behind her demand to impose risk
on holders of future government bonds. Merkel’s stance “hasn’t
been helpful,” Irish Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  said in an
interview with the Irish Independent newspaper published Nov.
12, nine days before Ireland sought a bailout package.  “It’s really about the uncertainty which comes from this
monster of a permanent crisis-resolution mechanism,”  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Group in Brussels, said in a phone
interview. “No one knows what it looks like.”  The existing euro bailout fund set up in May worked as
intended for Ireland, the second euro-region country to seek aid
after Greece, Merkel said. While Germany views Ireland’s request
“positively,” help will come with “conditionality” to ensure
the country cleans up its finances, she said.  Liability Clauses  Germany may press buyers of new euro-region bonds to accept
liability clauses starting in 2011, two years before the
permanent crisis-management system is due to kick in, a Finance
Ministry paper shows.  “These are working papers and it’s not sensible to
condense working papers that represent a preliminary assessment
reflecting certain considerations with the position of the
government,” Merkel’s chief spokesman,  Steffen Seibert , told
reporters in Berlin today. “The current mechanism that runs
until 2013 is in operation and none of its conditions will be
changed.”  The euro fell 0.2 percent to $1.3345 at 1:30 p.m. in
Berlin.  EU leaders are due to debate ways to involve investors in
bailout and restructuring costs at a Dec. 16-17 summit in
Brussels, aiming to set up a permanent safety net to replace the
750 billion-euro ($998 billion) bailout fund once it expires in
2013. Spanish Prime Minister  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero  said
Nov. 12 he opposes Merkel’s plan, so “it won’t be easy” for
her to get her way.  ‘Exceptionally Serious’  Merkel drew criticism from the European Central Bank and a
German bankers’ group for her stand on making bond investors pay
and for saying yesterday that the euro faces an “exceptionally
serious” situation, remarks that helped send the single
currency to a three-month low.  “That irritates me,” European Central Bank Governing
Council member  Ewald Nowotny  said in an interview on Austria’s
ORF television late yesterday. “The euro is not in danger.
Individual countries, and the banking systems of these
countries, are in danger. You have to make the distinction.”  Germany’s BDB banking association, which represents lenders
including Deutsche Bank AG, said Merkel’s plan to make investors
shoulder more risk if states can’t pay their debts may derail
bond sales from 2013.  Merkel Support Grows  The economic outlook is stabilizing and voter support for
Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc growing even as critics blame
her for worsening Europe’s debt crisis.  German business confidence unexpectedly surged to a record
in November as domestic spending increased, bolstering the
economic outlook, the Munich-based Ifo institute said today. The
business climate index reached the highest level since records
for reunified Germany began in 1991.  The Christian Democrats and their CSU Bavarian sister party
gained one percentage point to 34 percent, the third straight
weekly increase and the highest since May 11, a Forsa poll
showed today. Her Free Democratic Party coalition partner held
at 5 percent.  The Nov. 15-19 poll of 2,500 people for Hamburg-based Stern
magazine and broadcaster RTL has a margin of error of as many as
2.5 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Czuczka  at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  