-- Eskom Says Policy Needed to Secure Local Coal Supplies Amid Rising Exports
-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 2010-11-24T10:43:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/eskom-says-policy-needed-to-secure-local-coal-supplies-amid-rising-exports.html
Eskom Holdings Ltd., South Africa’s
largest power supplier, said the country needs to ensure it has
sufficient, affordable coal supplies for domestic power plants
as exports become more lucrative for producers.  Competition with exports is raising domestic coal prices
and that has an knock-on effect on electricity tariffs, Jeanie
Moothoo, a manager in Eskom’s coal-purchasing unit, said in a
speech in Johannesburg today. Domestic coal prices are expected
to continue rising, she said.  “There needs to be a clear policy on coal exports versus
domestic requirements,” she said. “Domestic pricing principles
need to be clarified.”  Producers can make more money by selling coal on the export
market to India and China than to Eskom, Deputy Mineral
Resources Minister Godfrey Oliphant said last week.  BHP Billiton
Ltd. , Xstrata Plc and Anglo American Plc are among the largest
coal producers in South Africa, which generates about 90 percent
of its power from the fuel.  The government said in 2008 it may limit exports of the
fuel from the country. Coal shortages contributed to a power
crisis that shut down mines, smelters and shopping malls in
Africa’s biggest economy during the first quarter of that year.
The government will consider amendments to mineral laws in the
next few months to regulate coal supplies,  Fin24  reported last
week, citing Oliphant.  “Business exists to maximize profits,” Landi Themba,
director of coal and gas policy at the Department of Energy,
said in a speech in Johannesburg today. “But coal is a finite
resource. If we don’t manage it well, we could exhaust it sooner
than we expected.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carli Lourens  in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan in London at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  