-- Yen Near Two-Month High on Concern China Will Curb Inflation; Aussie Falls
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2010-11-25T10:01:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/euro-trades-near-two-month-low-amid-labor-unrest-portugal-austerity-vote.html
The yen traded near the strongest in
two months against the euro as speculation that China will take
fresh measures to combat inflation boosted demand for safer
assets.  The euro was near a two-month low against the dollar as LCH
Clearnet Ltd. increased the cost of trading Irish debt. Sweden’s
krona declined against the dollar and the euro after consumer
confidence slipped in November. China may need to use reserve
ratios and interest rates to control excess liquidity, People’s
Bank of China adviser  Xia Bin  said today.  The yen traded at 111.33 per euro as of 9:43 a.m. in London
from 111.40 in New York yesterday, when it rose to 110.32, the
strongest since Sept. 15. Japan’s currency was unchanged at
83.54 per dollar. The euro bought $1.3317 from $1.3335
yesterday, when it fell to $1.3285, the weakest since Sept. 22.  “Everyone knows that inflation is an issue in China and
this could come back to the fore, and on top of that there are
the problems in the periphery of Europe that carry on,” said
 Jane Foley , senior foreign-exchange strategist at Rabobank
International in London. “There’s going to be a strong floor”
under the yen and other haven currencies, she said.  China will use quantitative and price tools to manage
liquidity, PBOC deputy governor  Hu Xiaolian  said in a statement
posted on the central bank’s website yesterday. The government
has raised rates, increased the reserve requirement for banks
and pledged to use price controls as part of efforts to rein in
inflation that quickened to 4.4 percent last month.  The Chinese yuan gained for the first time in five days,
appreciating 0.06 percent to 6.6497, according to the China
Foreign Exchange Trading System.  China Inflation  Inflation may stay higher than 4 percent next year and
require the government to adjust policies, the Securities Times
reported today, citing Wang Tongsan, a researcher at the Chinese
Academy of Social Sciences.  Deutsche Bank AG recommended investors sell Australia’s
dollar against the Canadian currency as China acts to cool
inflation. The bank is targeting a decline in the so-called
Aussie to 96 Canadian cents in the coming weeks. The Australian
currency fell 0.1 percent to 99.01 Canadian cents.  “A lot of good news is priced into the Australian dollar
at these levels,” said  John Horner , a currency strategist in
Sydney at Deutsche Bank. “We’ve also got tightening pressures
in China, which will affect the Australian dollar in particular
given it is used as a China play.”  Krona Slips  The krona slipped 0.1 percent to 9.2748 against the euro
and was 0.3 percent weaker at 6.9655 per dollar.  An index measuring confidence fell to 22.6 in November from
23.4 the previous month, the Swedish National Institute of
Economic Research said in a report published today.
Manufacturing confidence rose to 8 from 5, NIER said.  The euro fell as much as 0.2 percent against the dollar
after LCH Clearnet raised the extra margin requirement it
charges for Irish bond trading to 45 percent of net positions.
Ireland this week became the second euro-area country to seek a
financial bailout from the European Union and the International
Monetary Fund as the yield premium investors demand to hold the
nation’s debt instead of German bonds surged.  Workers in Portugal staged a general strike yesterday and
the government faces a final vote in parliament on its 2011
spending plan, which includes measures to trim the deficit.  “The euro is a good sell at the moment,” said  Anthony Gray , head of foreign-exchange dealing in Sydney at Travelex
Global Business Payments, a currency-exchange network. “We’ve
seen unrest in Ireland before, so that’s definitely possible and
will weigh on Europe and will weigh on risk as a whole.”  European Central Bank council member  Axel Weber  wrote in Le
Figaro that planned budgetary reforms in the region don’t go far
enough. Punishments for breaching deficit criteria need to be
more automatic, and a country’s debt level must be considered
along with its deficit, Weber wrote.  While the foundations of monetary union have been strongly
shaken, there’s no reason to doubt the euro’s future, he added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
 Ron Harui  in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 