-- European Shares to Beat U.S. Equities, Cumberland's Kotok Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2010-11-24T18:27:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/european-shares-to-beat-u-s-equities-cumberland-s-kotok-says-tom-keene.html
Stronger economic growth prospects
in the euro zone will help the region’s shares outperform U.S.
equities, according to  David Kotok , chief investment officer of
Cumberland Advisors Inc.  “Northern Europe is in recovery, and those stock markets
are doing better, those debt markets are stable,” Kotok, whose
firm in Vineland, New Jersey, manages more than $1.5 billion in
assets, said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance”
with  Tom Keene . “There is a growth accelerator under way.”  European stocks rose today from a six-week low as Ireland’s
government announced a four-year deficit-cutting plan and
negotiated a bailout of the nation’s banks. U.S. stocks rallied
as jobless claims fell to the lowest level since July 2008.  Ireland’s government said it will cut spending by about 20
percent and raise taxes over the next four years as talks with
the International Monetary Fund and the European Union on a
85 billion euro ($114 billion) aid package near conclusion.  “What the European Union and European Central Bank are
doing is setting forth to resolve a debt issue,” said Kotok,
who is author of “Invest in Europe Now! Why Europe’s Markets
Will Outperform the U.S. in the Coming Years” with Vincenzo
Sciarretta. “Contrast that to the United States -- where we
passed financial regulatory reform -- and it’s no reform.  “There is no mention of the GSEs, which continue to lose
billions a month,” said Kotok, referring to government-
sponsored enterprises such as the mortgage lenders Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac “We don’t resolve issues, we defer them. We
kick the can down the road.”  German Sentiment  German  business confidence  unexpectedly surged to a record
in November as domestic spending rose, a report showed today.  The Munich-based  Ifo institute  said its  business climate
index , based on a survey of 7,000 executives, rose to 109.3 from
107.7 in October. That’s the highest since records for a
reunified Germany began in 1991.  While the pace of German economic expansion slowed to 0.7
percent in the third quarter from 2.3 percent in the second
quarter, private consumption was one of the main growth
contributors, the Federal Statistics Office said yesterday.  Federal Reserve policy makers raised this month their
unemployment projections for the next two years while lowering
their 2011 growth outlooks, according to minutes from their Nov.
2-3 meeting published yesterday. Some policy makers raised their
long-run jobless-rate projection, signaling they see some
further permanent effects from the recession on unemployment.  Fed Debt Buying  At the completion of the policy meeting, the Fed announced
plans to buy $600 billion of Treasuries through June to expand
its record stimulus measures in an attempt to reduce 9.6 percent
unemployment and keep inflation from slowing.  “The Fed has to see this through to next summer,” Kotok
said. “They have to do the $600 billion. If they do anything
else they will deliver a negative surprise to the economy and to
the debt markets. It will be a shock, a negative shock.”  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  has increased 7.3 percent
in 2010, while the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  is up 4.9 percent for
the year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Liz Capo McCormick  in New York at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  