-- European Industrial Orders Fell the Most in Almost Two Years in September
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2010-11-24T10:40:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/european-industrial-orders-slump-the-most-in-almost-two-years.html
European  industrial orders  slumped
the most in almost two years in September, suggesting weaker
global growth and a stronger euro are starting to hurt exports.  Orders  in the 16-nation euro area dropped 3.8 percent from
August, when they rose 5.1 percent, the European Union’s
statistics office in Luxembourg said today. That’s the biggest
plunge since December 2008 and sharper than the 2.5 percent drop
forecast by  economists  in a Bloomberg News survey.  Orders  rose
14 percent from September 2009.  European companies may struggle to maintain their earnings
growth as the euro’s strength undermines exports just as the
global recovery falters and governments step up budget cuts.
 Hochtief AG , Germany’s largest builder, said on Nov. 11 that new
orders fell in the third quarter. Still, German business
confidence unexpectedly surged to a record this month and
Europe’s  manufacturing growth  accelerated.  “Euro-zone manufacturing activity has clearly slowed from
the peak levels seen in the second quarter and the suspicion is
that” companies “will find life tougher in 2011,” said  Howard Archer , chief European economist at IHS Global Insight in
London. “Global growth appears to be slowing and domestic
demand is likely to be increasingly limited in a number of euro-
zone countries by tighter fiscal policy.”  The euro was little changed after the report, trading at
$1.3319 at 11:37 a.m. in Brussels, down from $1.3367 yesterday.  Budget Cuts  Euro-region  economic growth  weakened to 0.4 percent in the
third quarter from 1 percent in the previous three months as
countries from Ireland to Spain toughened budget cuts,
undermining consumer confidence. The EU statistics office will
release a breakdown of third-quarter gross domestic product on
Dec. 2.  While exports helped fuel the region’s fastest expansion in
four years in the second quarter, the euro’s 5.9 percent ascent
against the dollar over the past three months is making goods
less competitive abroad. The Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development on Nov. 18 lowered its global growth
forecast for next year and forecast a “soft spot.”  Euro-area orders for capital goods dropped 2.5 percent in
September from August, when they rose 7.9 percent, today’s data
showed. Orders for  durable consumer goods  fell 6.3 percent and
those for intermediate goods slipped 2.2 percent.      Orders
excluding heavy transport equipment such as ships and trains
declined 3.3 percent from August, when they rose 4.4 percent,
according to the report.  Consumer Spending  Companies may not be able to rely on consumer spending to
boost earnings as governments cut outlays and raise taxes to
plug budget shortfalls. Spanish Finance Minister  Elena Salgado 
said today that there’s “absolutely” no risk of the country
asking for external aid after Ireland earlier this week
requested assistance from the EU and the International Monetary
Fund.  “Markets are able to assess the differences from one
country to the other,” European Central Bank council member
 Yves Mersch  told CNBC in an interview broadcast today. “This
would not be the case if contagion” affected the whole region.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simone Meier  in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  