-- European Stock-Index Futures Climb; Repsol, Verbund, Commerzbank May Move
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2010-11-24T17:03:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/european-u-s-stock-index-futures-climb-asian-shares-pare-earlier-losses.html
European stocks  rebounded from a
six-week low as Ireland’s government unveiled a four-year
deficit-cutting plan and talks on a bailout of the country’s
banks near conclusion.  Porsche SE climbed 6.3 percent after the carmaker’s
operating profit increased more than sevenfold in the first
quarter. Compass Group Plc rose 7.3 percent after reporting
earnings that topped estimates. Bank of Ireland Plc dropped 11
percent amid speculation the Dublin-based lender may end up in
majority state control.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  climbed 1 percent to 266.29 at
the 4:30 p.m. close in London. The gauge sank to the lowest
level since Oct. 12 yesterday on mounting concern the sovereign-
debt crisis will spread from Ireland to southern Europe and as
North Korea fired artillery shells into South Korea.  “What’s going on regarding the peripheral European
countries is impacting sentiment, but that is presenting
valuation opportunities,” said  Kevin Lilley , who helps oversee
about $2 billion at Royal London Asset Management. “I am not
comfortable with the short term volatility but I stick with the
view that global GDP growth remains pretty robust. There is
still substantial upside to equity markets.”  U.S. Labor Market  European stocks extended gains after a report showed
 applications  for unemployment benefits in the U.S. fell more
than forecast last week to the lowest level since July 2008,
reinforcing evidence the labor market is healing.  National benchmark indexes climbed in 14 of the 18 western
European markets. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 rallied 1.4 percent while
France’s CAC 40 gained 0.6 percent. Ireland’s ISEQ rose 0.8
percent, rebounding from yesterday’s 3.4 percent selloff.
Germany’s  DAX  led gains, rising 1.8 percent as a report showed
the country’s business confidence unexpectedly surged to a
record high.  The Irish government today announced plans to cut spending
by about a fifth and raise taxes over the next four years in a
bid to narrow the budget deficit to 3 percent of gross domestic
product by the end of 2014. The shortfall will be 12 percent of
GDP this year, or 32 percent including a banking rescue.  Cowen is racing to conclude talks with the European Union
and the International Monetary Fund on an 85 billion-euro aid
package as his governing coalition crumbles. The nation’s debt
rating was lowered two steps by Standard & Poor’s late
yesterday, with a negative outlook.  Porsche, Compass Gain  Porsche  jumped 6.3 percent to 56.41 euros after the maker
of the 911 sports car said earnings before interest and taxes
surged to 395 million euros between August and October compared
with 52 million euros a year earlier. Sales climbed 80 percent
to 2.1 billion euros.  Compass rose 7.3 percent to 566 pence after the world’s
largest catering company said full-year profit rose 15 percent,
beating analysts’ estimates, as it exited some unprofitable
contracts and cut costs at acquired businesses.  Provident Financial Plc , the U.K.’s biggest subprime
lender, rallied 8.6 percent to 841.5 pence after saying the
government’s spending cuts will have a “modest” effect on its
customers.  BP Plc gained 1.9 percent to 437 pence after the company
said it made a “significant’ gas discovery in Egypt’s West Nile
Delta area.  Johnson Matthey Plc rose 2 percent to 1,877 pence after the
maker of a third of all autocatalysts reported a 33 percent
increase in first-half profit to 104.7 million pounds ($165
million) on improved demand from emerging markets. The company
also said it expects results in the second half to be similar.  Irish Banks       Bank of Ireland  dropped 11 percent to 26.7 euro cents,
extending this week’s slump to 41 percent. Two people familiar
with the situation said the lender may end up in majority state
control as the government injects more capital into the bank.  Ireland will seek to raise the core tier 1 capital levels
of its banks to between 10.5 percent and 12 percent, the people
said.  SAP AG  slid 1 percent to 35.84 euros after the software
maker was ordered to pay $1.3 billion to rival Oracle Corp. for
copyright infringement by a now-defunct software maintenance
unit. The jury yesterday awarded the damages after an 11-day
trial in federal court in Oakland, California.  Agfa-Gevaert NV tumbled 18 percent to 3.47 euros after
Europe’s largest maker of prepress products reported profit that
missed analyst estimates as its specialty film business turned
unprofitable.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Jones  in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 