-- Euro Near Two-Month Low on Speculation Sovereign-Debt Crisis Is Spreading
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2010-11-24T11:52:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/euro-slips-versus-yen-as-bond-drop-shows-sovereign-debt-crisis-spreading.html
The euro stayed near a two-month low
versus the dollar as concern the sovereign-debt crisis will
spread pushed down bonds from the region’s high-deficit nations.  The euro weakened against the Swiss franc after Ireland’s
debt rating was lowered two steps by Standard & Poor’s, with a
negative outlook. The 16-nation currency fell even as the Ifo
institute’s index of German business confidence unexpectedly
surged to a record high. Australia’s dollar rallied after its
steepest drop this month on optimism the nation’s growth will
weather Ireland’s debt crisis and Korean tensions.  “Euro sentiment is very bearish and not really following
the data,” said  Daragh Maher , deputy head of global foreign-
exchange strategy at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank
in London. “It’s more the unease about the structural issues.
The euro is basically priced to the weakest link.”  The euro slipped 0.1 percent to $1.3354 at 11:23 a.m. in
London, after reaching $1.3285, the weakest level since Sept.
22. It traded at 111.18 yen versus 111.16 in New York yesterday.
Against the franc, the euro depreciated 0.1 percent to 1.3313.  The euro has fallen 3.9 percent this month against the
dollar as German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s demand for a crisis-
resolution mechanism that forces bondholders to share the cost
of future bailouts reignited the region’s sovereign debt crisis.
Rising borrowing costs and concern banks may need more backing
forced Ireland to request discussions on a rescue package.  S&P Cut  Ireland led the bonds of the most-indebted euro-region
nations lower today as the fallout from its fiscal crisis fanned
out through the region. Portugal faced its biggest strike in 22
years in a protest against government austerity measures. Shares
of Bank of Ireland Plc and Allied Irish Banks Plc also dropped
as the government prepared to inject more capital.  S&P cut Ireland’s long-term sovereign rating to A from AA-,
it said in a statement. The rating may be lowered again if
negotiations over aid from the International Monetary Fund and
European Union, or the nation’s budget, fail to ease a funding
crunch, S&P said.  Irish Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  said today the government
discussed a bailout package of about 85 billion euros ($113
billion) with the International Monetary Fund and European Union
and the size hasn’t been decided yet. Finance Minister Brian
Lenihan will lay out a four-year deficit-cutting program today.  Australian Dollar  Australia’s dollar gained versus the greenback and the yen
on speculation the global economic recovery remains on track,
underpinning demand for higher-yielding assets.  Germany’s Ifo institute’s business climate index rose to
109.3 in November from 107.7 the previous month, confounding
analyst estimates for a drop to 107.5. U.S. consumer spending
rose 0.5 percent in October after a 0.2 percent gain in
September, a Bloomberg survey showed before today’s report.  “Developments in Ireland and the Koreas won’t change the
fact that the global economy is recovering gradually,” said
 Masashi Murata , vice president of foreign exchange in Tokyo at
BBH Investment Services Inc., a unit of New York-based Brown
Brothers Harriman & Co. “People should buy the Aussie against
the euro. Commodity currencies are set to be bought on dips.”  Australia’s currency advanced 0.6 percent to 97.85 U.S.
cents, after sliding 1.7 percent yesterday, the most since Oct.
19. The so-called Aussie rose 0.7 percent to 81.46 yen.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  said it was “turning bearish” on the
yen for the first time in three years as the global economic
recovery and central bank stimulus boost demand for risk assets.  Japan’s currency will fall against most of its major
counterparts in 2011, with larger declines against commodity and
emerging-market currencies, wrote  Tohru Sasaki , head of Japan
rates and foreign-exchange research and  Junya Tanase , chief
currency strategist, in a note to clients.  The yen was at 83.25 per dollar from 83.16 yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  