-- Euro Tests Some Hourly Levels, May Increase, BNP Says: Technical Analysis
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2010-11-24T19:04:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/euro-tests-some-hourly-levels-may-increase-bnp-says-technical-analysis.html
The euro may break through hourly
resistance levels and rebound against the dollar, said BNP
Paribas SA, citing technical indicators.  Euro strengthening through $1.338 and $1.342 may lead to a
larger short-term gain by the euro against the dollar to $1.3475
and $1.3535. A decline below $1.3285, while not expected, would
be limited at $1.3235, Andrew  Chaveriat , a New York-based
technical analyst at BNP Paribas SA, said in an interview. A
resistance level is an area where sell orders to be clustered.  “The short-term pattern suggests euro-dollar has probably
finished this week’s three-day/five-cent decline,” Chaveriat
wrote to clients today. “This week’s dollar rebound versus euro
has not been validated by the Swiss franc or the yen, which
remain bottled up as they have been for the past week in narrow
ranges.”  The euro was little changed against the dollar at 1:59 p.m.
in New York. The greenback has gained 2.3 percent against the
16-nation currency this week, risen 0.5 percent against the
Swiss franc and declined 0.5 percent versus the yen.  “Until the U.S. dollar also rallies convincingly against
the Swiss franc, yen and the Dollar Index, euro-dollar downside
may be limited,” Chaveriat said. IntercontinentalExchange
Inc.’s Dollar Index, which measures the greenback’s performance
against the currencies of six major trading partners including
the euro and yen, was little changed at 79.683.  In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to forecast changes in a security
commodity, currency or index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  