-- ECB Pressure to Reverse Tough Stance on Funding May Weaken Euro, RBS Says
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2010-11-24T14:59:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/euro-may-weaken-from-pressure-on-ecb-to-reverse-tough-stance-rbs-says.html
The European Central Bank’s push to
reduce liquidity support for banks is exacerbating the region’s
debt crisis, and pressure to reverse its position will likely
weaken the euro, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc said.  “This tough stance is reigniting a euro debt crisis,”
 Greg Gibbs , a currency strategist in Sydney, wrote in a research
report dated yesterday. “The recent problems in Europe may
relate to fears that weak banks in the periphery will lose
access to cheap funding from the ECB, and their deteriorating
position will in turn put more pressure on the sovereigns.”  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said this month it’s
“not a normal situation” to have banks “addicted” to central
bank cash, and policy makers are reflecting “on how to deal
progressively with this problem.” The ECB said today it will
lend banks 38.2 billion euros ($51 billion) for three months,
spreading the funds between 189 lenders. That’s more than the 25
billion euros estimated by Barclays Plc analysts, according to a
note today.  “The size of this allotment may be viewed by the market as
a sign of the level of stress in the banking system,” RBS’s
Gibbs wrote before the auction today. “As the market moves to
more closely link the renewed financial crisis in Europe to ECB
policy, the pressure on the ECB to ease will increase and
downward pressure on the euro exchange rate will increase.”  The euro rose 0.2 percent to $1.3393 at 2:29 p.m. in
London.  Policy makers will decide whether to take further steps in
the exit from those measures next month, according to Trichet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  