-- Leveraged-Loan Sales Double as Companies Cut Maturity Wall, Rates Decline
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 2010-11-24T15:15:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/leveraged-loan-sales-double-as-companies-cut-maturity-wall-rates-decline.html
Speculative-grade U.S. companies are
doubling the amount of money they raise in leveraged loans to
refinance debt, taking advantage of dropping costs to level a
maturity wall that threatened a surge in defaults.  Swift Corp. , the largest truckload carrier in North
America, is leading transactions slated to repay borrowings this
week as refinancing-related issuance climbs to $77.6 billion
from $37.3 billion in all of 2009, according to Standard &
Poor’s Leveraged Commentary and Data.  Investors are asking for lower risk premiums on loans rated
four to five steps below investment grade, S&P LCD data show, as
revised figures show the U.S. economy expanded at a faster pace
in the third quarter and the Federal Reserve renewed efforts to
boost growth and reduce  unemployment . Since the beginning of
2009, companies tapping lender appetite refinanced 37 percent of
loans maturing through 2014, when the maturity wall peaks at
$204 billion, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  “We’re going to see a lot of refinancing, people will
attack the maturity wall of 2014, the big challenge will be for
some of the major issuers with $5 billion to $15 billion of bank
debt that’s trading in the market for 70 cents to 80 cents,”
said  Kevin Booth , portfolio manager of RS Investments’ $250
million  floating-rate fund . “Treasurers have pretty much
squared away 2011, 2012 and 2013 maturities.”  Companies have $120.4 billion of leveraged loans, which are
rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and BBB- by S&P,
coming due through 2013, down from $293.8 billion at the end of
2008, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show.  Tighter Spreads  Leveraged-loan default rates in the U.S. dropped to 3.6
percent in October from 4.1 percent in September and 11.5
percent last year, Moody’s said in a Nov. 4 report. There were
no defaults in October, Moody’s said.  Pricing for debt rated B+ or B declined to 6.2 percentage
points as of today from this year’s peak of 7.56 percentage
points in July, S&P LCD said. The average all-in spreads assume
three-year maturity on loans and include upfront fees, original-
issue discounts and floors on the London interbank offered rate,
a lending benchmark.  “Spreads are tightening because of demand,” said  Tim Donahue , head of high-yield and leveraged-loan capital markets
at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York. “The key driver here is
technical, there’s a lot of cash in the loan market. As people
get scared with QE2 coming on and inflation fears stoke up, the
best place to be protected is a floating-rate market, it’s a
natural place to be and that drives the flow of funds to the
loan market.”  Fed’s QE2  U.S. gross domestic product rose by 2.5 percent in the
three months ended Sept. 30, compared with a 2 percent estimate
issued last month and 1.7 percent growth in the second quarter,
the Commerce Department said yesterday. Jobless claims declined
to 407,000 for the week ended Nov. 20, the lowest level since
July 2008, the Labor Department said today.  Fed members pushing for a second round of quantitative
easing, or more monetary stimulus, overcame concerns by a
minority of central bankers concerned about inflation in
deciding to buy $600 billion of Treasuries, according to the
minutes of the officials’ Nov. 2-3 meeting. The move has been
criticized by Republican politicians, governments around the
world and some economists.  “An unintended consequence of the Fed policy will be
rising inflationary expectations and higher long-term yields,”
said RS Investments’ Booth, who previously was co-head of the
high-yield team and helped run the leveraged finance business at
BlackRock Inc. “That would make the high-yield bond market less
compelling and perhaps drive investors to the leveraged-loan
market, which in turn will help companies access the market to
refinance debt.”  Swift Refinancing  Swift, acquired for $2.6 billion by founder  Jerry Moyes , is
seeking to raise $1.45 billion of loans and about $1 billion in
an initial public offering to refinance $2.53 billion of debt,
mostly used to back the Phoenix-based company’s takeover.  Bank of America Corp., Morgan Stanley and Wells Fargo & Co.
will arrange a $400 million revolving credit line due in five
years and a $1.05 billion term loan maturing in six years. The
banks will hold a lender meeting Nov. 30.  Companies also have been able to take advantage of investor
demand for leveraged loans even as markets sank on renewed
investor concern that contagion is spreading through the euro
zone while Ireland seeks a bailout and fighting broke out
between North and South Korea.  Lower Volatility  Lower volatility in loan prices compared with the high-
yield bond and the equity markets enabled companies to seek
amendments that would push out existing debt maturities and give
borrowers more time to refinance debt.  Junk bonds lost 1.64 percent since total returns peaked
Nov. 9, paring 2010 gains to 13.7 percent, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s US High Yield Master II Index shows. During the
same period the  S&P 500 Index  lost 2.6 percent, bringing down
gains for the year to 7.8 percent, while the  S&P/LSTA US
Leveraged Loan 100 Index  retreated 0.65 percent to overtake
equity returns with 7.95 percent.  Three factors contributing to more stable prices in the
leveraged-loan market is less liquidity than bonds and equities;
interest rates tied to lending benchmarks, therefore rising with
inflation; and lack of call protection, which enables borrowers
to refinance the debt at par at their choosing, JPMorgan’s
Donahue said.  “We don’t see the technicals of the market changing
dramatically and we think we’ll continue to see amend-extends
because demand for paper will continue to outstrip supply,” he
said.  ‘Favorable Market Conditions’  CDW Corp. , the technology solutions provider taken private
by Madison Dearborn Partners LLC in 2007, is seeking to delay
maturities on $1 billion of loans used for the leveraged buyout
at a higher interest rate.  JPMorgan, Deutsche Bank AG and Morgan Stanley are arranging
an amendment that would push out the due date in exchange for a
1 percentage point increase in interest on the extended portion
to 5 percentage points more than  Libor , the rate banks charge to
lend to each other.  CDW is seeking to move the maturity on a portion of the
debt by 2.5 years to July 2017, according to a Nov. 22
regulatory filing. The Vernon Hills, Illinois-based company said
it’s also seeking lender permission to issue $300 million of
senior secured notes to repay its term loan at par.  “We are pursuing this transaction now due to favorable
market conditions,” Chief Financial Officer  Ann Ziegler  said in
an e-mail yesterday.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 