-- Hewlett-Packard's New China Chief Vows to Improve Quality to Regain Share
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-24T11:43:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/hewlett-packard-s-new-china-chief-vows-to-improve-quality-to-regain-share.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. ’s new China head
vowed to make “every effort” to improve product quality to
reverse declining market share in the nation where consumer
complaints about its laptops led to a government investigation.  “We are improving significantly our service level to
consumers,” Rueybin Kao, the company’s China managing director,
said in an interview in Beijing today. Kao assumed the role on
Sept. 21 after 17 years at  Motorola Inc.   Hewlett-Packard’s share in China’s personal computer market
almost halved in the third quarter, helping smaller rival Dell
Inc. cement its second place, according to research company IDC.
Dell overtook the world’s largest computer maker in the Asian
nation after the government started an investigation in March
following consumer complaints about Hewlett-Packard’s laptops.  The Palo Alto, California-based company’s global notebook
computer sales dropped 3 percent in its fiscal fourth quarter
largely because of “latent quality issues” in China, Chief
Financial Officer  Cathie Lesjak  said on a call yesterday.  “We’re really focused on rebuilding our brand and our
channel, as well as obviously our position, in the China
market,” Lesjak said on the earnings conference call. “It’s
going to take us a few quarters.”  Hewlett-Packard’s share of China’s market fell to 9.2
percent in the third quarter, from 16.6 percent a year earlier,
according to Framingham, Massachusetts-based IDC. Round Rock,
Texas-based Dell’s share rose to 10 percent, from 7.8 percent.  Lenovo Group Ltd. , China’s biggest PC maker, increased its
market share to 28.8 percent, from 26.5 percent, IDC said.  Extended Warranty  Kao declined to provide details on how he would improve the
quality or customer service. He spoke after an event to mark the
25th anniversary of Hewlett-Packard’s founding in China.  In March, the PC maker extended the warranty period by two
years for some laptops it sold in China. That was after the
nation’s General Administration of Quality Supervision,
Inspection and Quarantine started an investigation following at
least 60 complaints about faulty laptops, the agency said in a
statement at the time.  HP gained 94 cents, or 2.2 percent, to $44.19 in New York
Stock Exchange composite  trading  yesterday. The stock has lost
14 percent this year.  -- Edmond Lococo . With assistance from  Aaron Ricadela  in San
Francisco and  Mark Lee  in Hong Kong. Editors:  Vipin V. Nair ,
 Suresh Seshadri .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  