-- Mexico's Salinas Urges `Permanent' Attack on Cartels Amid Rising Deaths
-- B y   J e n s   E r i k   G o u l d
-- 2010-11-24T23:07:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/mexico-s-salinas-urges-permanent-attack-on-cartels-amid-rising-deaths.html
Mexico’s former President  Carlos Salinas de Gortari  said the government must maintain a
“permanent” attack against all drug cartels as violence
related to trafficking is on pace for a record this year.  A plan to legalize drugs in Mexico in a bid to curtail
cartels’ profits without other countries taking similar action
would be a mistake, Salinas said in an interview in Mexico City.
Former Mexican presidents  Vicente Fox  and  Ernesto Zedillo  have
voiced support for legalization.  “President Calderon’s strategy has been brave,” Salinas,
who was president from 1988 until 1994, said in an interview in
Mexico City. “Any government has to continue a decided and
frontal attack against all cartels.”  President  Felipe Calderon  has deployed thousands of troops
to areas where traffickers are battling over drug routes to the
U.S. Opposition politicians and human rights groups have
criticized the strategy as more than 28,000 people have been
killed in violence related to organized crime since Calderon
took office in December 2006.  Killings this year have included the assassination of a
leading gubernatorial candidate and more than a dozen mayors,
and the massacre of 73 migrants.  In the northern border states of Chihuahua and Tamaulipas,
where violence is most acute, murders rose 35 percent in the
first 10 months of 2010 to 1,796 compared with the same period
last year, according to Interior Ministry data.  Pemex  Salinas urged Petroleos Mexicanos, Latin America’s largest
oil producer, to take advantage of legal revisions approved by
lawmakers in 2008 that allow Pemex to form partnerships with
foreign companies with deep-water exploration experience and
better technology for mature fields. The rules may attract new
sources of investment. Pemex mostly relies on oil services
companies for equipment or labor.  “Rather than talking about another energy reform, the one
that was approved by congress needs to be reflected in
reality,” Salinas said.  The ex-president said he would oppose any plan to privatize
Pemex, as the Mexico City-based company is known.  During Salinas’ tenure, Mexico, the U.S. and Canada
approved the North American Free Trade Agreement. His government
also led a wave of privatizations of state companies, including
 Carlos Slim ’s purchase of telephone company  Telmex , which
currently has 79 percent of the country’s land-line phone users.  Leading Polls  Salinas’ Institutional Revolutionary Party, which ruled
Mexico for 71 years until 2000, is leading in polls ahead of the
2012 presidential election.  The party’s  Enrique Pena Nieto , governor of the State of
Mexico, had 25 percent support of those surveyed compared with 6
percent for former Mexico City Mayor  Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador , his closest rival, according to a poll released June 14
by Mexico City-based Consulta Mitofsky.  “There is a lot of time left before that election,”
Salinas said when asked if he thought the party would take back
the presidency in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jens Erik Gould  at 
 Jgould9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  