-- Expert Networker Don Chu Is Arrested on Conspiracy Charges in Insider Case
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2010-11-24T18:03:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/expert-network-worker-arrested-on-conspiracy-charges-u-s-attorney-says.html
Don Ching Trang Chu was arrested
today on charges he arranged for insiders at publicly traded
companies to improperly provide information to hedge fund
clients of the consulting firm where he worked.  U.S. prosecutors in New York claim in a complaint unsealed
today that Chu, 56, established a relationship with  Richard Choo-Beng Lee , a former partner at San Jose, California-based
Spherix Capital LLC. Lee was employed as an analyst by SAC
Capital Advisors LLC, the hedge fund firm run by  Steven Cohen ,
from 1999 to 2004.  Lee’s hedge fund paid Chu’s California-based firm, which
prosecutors didn’t identify, for tips, according to the
government. Inside information was passed concerning Atheros
Communications Inc., Broadcom Corp. and Sierra Wireless Inc.,
according to the government’s complaint.  Chu was employed by an unnamed “expert-networking” firm
and served as a liaison to consultants and sources of
information in the United States and elsewhere, the U.S. says.
Chu’s firm is Primary Global Research LLC, based in Mountain
View, California, according to a person familiar with the
investigation.  A spokeswoman for Primary Global Research, Marilyn Gerber,
didn’t immediately return phone calls and an e-mail seeking
comment.  Chu, who lives in Somerset, New Jersey, is charged with one
count of conspiracy to commit securities fraud and one count of
conspiracy to commit wire fraud. He faces up to 25 years in
prison if convicted of the conspiracy to commit wire fraud
counts.  Morning Arrest  Jim Margolin , a spokesman for the FBI’s New York Office,
said Chu was arrested at 6 a.m. this morning at his home in
Franklin Township, N.J. He said Chu was arrested because he was
scheduled to leave the country for Taiwan on Nov. 28.  Chu’s biography on the PGR website identifies him as “Asia
Expert and Data Sources.”  He worked for 25 years in the data communications industry
and worked for Bell Laboratories for more than 10 years, in
data, wireless and telecommunications, according to the website.  “Don intimately understands the wireless broadband
communications industry, and has deep connections and
relationships in the technology industry,” according to the
biography. “Finally, Don is just a fun person to travel with on
the highways and byways of Taiwan.”  Dan Charnas, a spokesman for Primary Global, said he
couldn’t immediately comment.  While Lee was cooperating with the government’s
investigation, on July 20 and 21, 2009, an unnamed person
working for a technology company provided Lee with details of
its sales, margins and revenue forecasts before the company
publicly announced quarterly earnings, according to prosecutors.  Conspiracy  Chu engaged in a conspiracy to commit securities fraud
between Jan. 2009 and Aug. 2009, according to the charges
against him.  Lee’s fund’s practice was to “have its employees call a
firm consultant before the consultant’s company was expected to
release its quarterly earnings, in part to obtain inside
information,” prosecutors said.  Lee’s fund paid the firm through “soft dollars” or
commissions from directed trading business, the U.S. alleges.  The case is U.S. v. Chu, 10-Mag-2625, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  