-- Roger Federer's `Grit' Moves Him Closer to ATP Semis With Defeat of Murray
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2010-11-24T00:01:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/federer-s-grit-moves-him-closer-to-atp-semifinals-with-win-over-murray.html
Roger Federer  showed again why he’s
still the man to beat at tennis’s  ATP World Tour Finals  after a
second comprehensive victory yesterday.  Two days after Spain’s  David Ferrer  won just five games
against the Swiss Grand Slam record holder, Federer beat
Britain’s  Andy Murray  6-4, 6-2 to close in on his eighth
semifinal spot at the season-ending championships in London.  “I’ve shown a lot of grit at the end of the season
throughout my career,” Federer told a news conference after he
dropped just eight points on his serve against the fifth-ranked
Scot.  With one more round of group matches to be played, Federer
leads Group B after winning twice. French Open finalist  Robin
Soderling  earned his first victory when he beat Spain’s  David
Ferrer , 7-5, 7-5 last night.  Federer, the winner of a men’s record 16 majors, is trying
to tie  Ivan Lendl  and  Pete Sampras  as the only players to have
won the ATP Finals five times.  “I find the extra gear at the end of the year when the
season is long,” said Federer, who is playing the ATP Finals
for a ninth consecutive time. “I’ve also been successful,
winning it four times. That’s something I have experience
doing.”  The Swiss, who hasn’t made a Grand Slam final since he beat
Murray at the Australian Open in Melbourne at the start of the
year, won the event in 2003, 2004, 2006 and 2007.  The tournament, won by Russia’s  Nikolay Davydenko  last
year, has a round-robin format, with the season’s eight best
players divided into two groups. Each will face the three others
in the group, with the top two in each section moving into the
knockout semifinals.  Federer said he’s looking forward to playing Soderling in
his final group match. The Swede beat him in the quarterfinals
of the  French Open , ending his record streak of 23 straight
Grand Slam semifinals.  “I’m excited, I have a great record against him,” said
Federer, who leads the fourth-ranked Soderling 14-1 in career
meetings.  Soderling, who wasn’t convincing in his victory over
Ferrer, has concerns about facing Federer.  “He’s playing really well right now,” Soderling said
about Federer after his win.  In Group A matches today, former U.S. Open champion  Andy
Roddick  will play Wimbledon finalist  Tomas Berdych  of the Czech
Republic. In a rematch of the U.S. Open finals, top-ranked
 Rafael Nadal  of Spain faces Djokovic of Serbia.  Nadal, the reigning French Open, Wimbledon and U.S. Open
champion, has yet to win the title at the ATP Finals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  