-- Spill-Fund Recipients Can’t Sue BP, Companies Involved
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r   a n d   L i z z i e   O ’ L e a r y
-- 2010-11-24T20:11:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/feinberg-spill-fund-recipients-can-t-sue-bp-companies-involved.html
Victims of the Gulf of Mexico oil
spill won’t be able to sue any of the companies involved in the
Deepwater Horizon disaster once they accept a final payment from
 BP Plc ’s $20 billion compensation fund.  Kenneth Feinberg , the Washington attorney administering the
Gulf Coast Claims Facility, released an outline today of how
such final claims will be judged. The guidelines extend the
liability waiver beyond BP to companies such as  Transocean Ltd. ,
which owned the rig that exploded in April, and  Anadarko
Petroleum Corp.  and MOEX Offshore 2007 LLC, part owners of the
well that ruptured.  Feinberg, whose handling of emergency claims has drawn
criticism from residents and officials along the Gulf Coast,
predicted that a “substantial number” of claimants would waive
their legal rights and accept final payment as the gulf recovers
from the biggest U.S. offshore oil spill.  “Ninety-nine percent of the fishing grounds are open,”
Feinberg said in an interview today on Bloomberg Television.
“There is shrimping. There is oystering. The tourism hopefully
is returning. And people may very well decide, ‘We’ll take the
lump-sum payment rather than come back again and again and have
to document -- document -- past damage.’”  While yesterday was the deadline for  filing claims  for
emergency payments, individuals and businesses can still apply
for interim payments every three months and retain their right
to pursue a final remedy in court. Only when accepting lump-sum
payments from the compensation fund do they give up the option
of suing BP and its partners and contractors. Requests for final
payments must be filed within three years.  Back to the Fund  “You can come back to the fund as many times as you want
and wait until you decide you want to file for a lump-sum final
payment, if you ever want to do it at all,” Feinberg said.  The rules released today establish an appeals process for
both claimants and BP.  The London-based  oil company  can appeal to a three-person
panel claims approved by Feinberg if the award is in excess of
$500,000. Most payments would be for less, Feinberg said.  “The great bulk of the claims -- 98, 95 percent of them --
BP has no right under the law or under my facility to challenge
those claims,” he said.  Feinberg will choose the appeals panel from names selected
by a “distinguished member of the legal profession,” according
to the guidelines.  Spill victims who receive compensation in excess of
$250,000 and who believe the total is inadequate also can appeal
to the three-judge panel.  ‘Emotional Ploy’  Separately, anyone seeking aid can appeal Feinberg’s
decision, first to the U.S. Coast Guard and then in court. Only
in accepting a final-lump sum payment do claimants waive their
legal rights to additional compensation.  Jeffrey Breit, a Virginia attorney who said he represents
more than 600 Gulf fishermen, said offering final payments
during the holiday season amounted to an “emotional ploy” that
may pressure claimants to accept the offers before damages can
be adequately assessed.  “I’ve told my clients, let’s see what April and May
brings,” Breit said. Feinberg’s emergency payments have been
inconsistent, according to Breit.  He cited two of his clients who are brothers working on the
same fishing boat. One received an emergency payment for $800
and the other for $18,000 with no explanation for the
discrepancy, Breit said.  Feinberg also has been criticized by public officials who
say emergency checks for their constituents affected by the
spill haven’t come quickly enough or are smaller than
anticipated.  ‘Too Many Uncertainties’  “There are still too many uncertainties with respect to
this disaster, and I lack any faith in your proclamations that
those who have not been ‘made whole’ by your emergency claims
process will have a continued opportunity with the interim
payment process, and again in the final payment process,”
Representative  Jo Bonner , an Alabama Republican, wrote Feinberg
yesterday.  In a separate letter to Associate Attorney General  Thomas Perrelli , Bonner urged the Justice Department to investigate the
compensation fund and oversee its operations.  “Thousands and thousands of people have been impacted by
this spill, and there is a lot of emotion and there is a lot of
concern,” Feinberg said today. “I think at the end of the day
the program is working.”  The fund has paid more  than 127,400 claims  for a total of
more than $2 billion, according to a status report dated
yesterday. The fund has received more than 439,000 applications
for emergency and final payments.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jim Snyder  in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net ;
 Lizzie O’Leary  in Washington at 
 loleary2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 