-- First Republic Files for IPO of Lender Owned by General Atlantic, Colony
-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2010-11-24T18:25:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/first-republic-files-for-ipo-of-lender-owned-by-general-atlantic-colony.html
First Republic Bank, the San
Francisco lender purchased by private-equity firms from
 Bank of America Corp.  at midyear, is planning an initial public
offering.  The number of shares to be sold and amount to be raised
weren’t included in the announcement of the offering today by
First Republic, whose owners include General Atlantic LLC and
Colony Capital LLC. The bank is seeking a listing on the New
York Stock Exchange, according to the statement.  The group including General Atlantic and Colony Capital
paid $1.86 billion for First Republic, according to an   offering
circular . Bank of America, the biggest U.S. lender by assets,
gained control of the firm when it took over Merrill Lynch & Co.
in January 2009. Merrill Lynch paid $1.8 billion in 2007 for the
bank.  First Republic will use proceeds from the sale “for
general corporate purposes, which may include, among other
things, funding loans or purchasing investment securities for
our portfolio,” the firm said in the filing.  Colony was founded by billionaire  Thomas Barrack  in 1991,
in part to buy distressed assets in the wake of the U.S. savings
and loan crisis. His Santa Monica, California-based firm has
invested $45 billion in 12,000 assets, according to its  website .  Colony’s Holdings  Holdings have included Neverland Ranch, the former home of
the late singer Michael Jackson. Colony was also among investors
that agreed in July to buy Miramax Films for $660 million in
cash from Walt Disney Co.  General Atlantic is led by  William E. Ford , a former Morgan
Stanley investment banker, according to First Republic’s
circular. The firm is based in Greenwich, Connecticut, and
manages about $15 billion, according to its  website . General
Atlantic and Colony each holds a 21.8 percent stake in First
Republic, according to the document.  First Republic serves affluent clients in California,
Connecticut, Massachusetts, New York, Nevada and Oregon. The
firm won’t pay cash dividends on common shares in the
“foreseeable future” after the sale, the filing said. Bank of
America, Morgan Stanley and JPMorgan Chase & Co. are managing
the offering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Natalie Doss  in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut in New York at   dkraut@bloomberg.net  