-- Fitch Lifts Turkey's Rating Outlook to Positive; Stocks, Bonds, Lira Gain
-- B y   S t e v e n   F r o m m   a n d   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 2010-11-24T15:41:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/fitch-lifts-turkey-s-rating-outlook-to-positive-stocks-bonds-lira-gain.html
Turkey had the outlook on its BB+
local and foreign currency bond ratings increased to positive
from stable by Fitch Ratings, which cited a strong  economic
recovery  and improving public finances. Turkish stocks, bonds
and the lira gained.  There’s “increasing confidence that a lasting
transformation in the country’s economic prospects and stability
is under way,”  Ed Parker , Fitch’s London-based head of emerging
Europe, said in a statement today. The country’s budgetary
position is improving and debt is decreasing as a proportion of
gross domestic product, he said.  Turkey’s economy expanded more than 10 percent in the first
half of the year, faster than any economy bar China’s in the
Group of 20 major economies, as record-low interest rates helped
encourage domestic demand. Higher credit ratings are likely
after parliamentary elections expected in June next year,
Finance Minister Mehmet Simsek said in London yesterday.  An outlook upgrade from Fitch is more important than from
other rating services “since it is the only agency that rates
Turkey just one notch below investment grade,”  Ozgur Altug ,
economist for BGC Partners in Istanbul, said in an e-mailed
note. “Fitch could upgrade immediately after the general
election.”  Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  will be seeking a third
term in office in parliamentary elections expected in June next
year.  Markets Rise  The  ISE National 100  share index rose 1.4 percent at the
5:30 p.m. close in Istanbul and yields on benchmark two-year
lira bonds fell 5 basis points to 7.59 percent The lira gained 1
percent to 1.4708 per dollar, reversing an earlier drop.  Increased revenue will help the budget deficit narrow to 4
percent of gross domestic product this year from 5.9 percent in
2009, Fitch said today. Emerging from the elections “without a
material increase in political instability would support the
case for an upgrade,” it said.  Moody’s Investors Service raised the outlook on Turkey’s
Ba2 rating, two levels below investment grade, to positive from
stable on Oct. 5. Standard & Poor’s ranks Turkey an equivalent
BB. Fitch raised the country to BB+ in December, one step below
investment grade.  The challenge for the government is to manage a widening
 current-account deficit  as the economic expansion draws in
imported goods and raw materials, Fitch said.  The government forecasts the current-account deficit will
widen to $39.3 billion this year, or about 5.4 percent of gross
domestic product, from $14.4 billion in 2009.  The deficit is increasingly financed by short-term inflows,
and that could “expose the country to an abrupt shift in global
liquidity,” Fitch said.  Fitch also said that Turkey has a record of  inflation 
that’s “higher and more volatile” than its peers. There’s a
risk the central bank will miss targets, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Bryant  in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net ;
 Steven Fromm  at 
 sfromm@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in Jerusalem at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 