-- Fraud Probe Fuels Biggest Corporate Debt Tumble Since April: Brazil Credit
-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a
-- 2010-11-24T11:58:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/fraud-probe-fuels-biggest-corporate-debt-tumble-since-april-brazil-credit.html
Brazilian corporate bonds are
trailing emerging-market debt for the first time since April as
a fraud probe into Banco Panamericano SA undermines investor
confidence in the country’s banking system.  The 1.6 percent  loss  in Brazilian company debt this month
is double the 0.8 percent decline in developing-nation  corporate 
notes, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s CEMBI indexes. U.S.
corporate debt tracked by Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes
was down 0.6 percent in the same period.  Prosecutors are conducting a criminal probe of Panamericano
after controlling shareholder Grupo  Silvio Santos  took a 2.5
billion real ($1.44 billion) emergency loan from the country’s
deposit insurance fund to boost the bank’s capital on Nov. 9.
The investigation into the Sao Paulo-based lender is curbing
investor demand for bonds sold by Brazilian banks, whose record
$16.9 billion of bond sales this year accounted for more than
half of the country’s corporate offerings.  “Everybody’s initial response was that it’s just a one-off
kind of thing and solely focused on Panamericano, but let’s not
forget everybody could be wrong because nobody saw this one,”
 Luz Padilla , who helps manage $6 billion in assets at Los
Angeles-based DoubleLine Capital LP, said in a telephone
interview. Padilla said Panamericano debt isn’t among her
Brazilian bank holdings.  The yield on Panamericano’s 8.5 percent securities due in
2020 surged as much as 306 basis points, or 3.06 percentage
points, since Nov. 8, the day before the capital injection, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Yields on bonds issued by Parana
Banco SA, based in Curitiba, and Banco BMG, in Belo Horizonte,
have jumped at least 75 basis points during the same period.  Pulled Offerings  Three banks have withdrawn bond offerings since the bailout
of Panamericano, Brazil’s 21st-biggest bank by assets, drove up
borrowing costs.  Banco BVA SA, a Rio de Janeiro-based bank specializing in
loans to mid-sized companies, delayed an overseas issue Nov. 12.
Banco Bradesco SA, the country’s second-largest bank by market
value, pulled a sale of real-linked bonds overseas because
global market “volatility” eroded demand for the debt, bank
director  Marlene Millan  said in a Nov. 16 interview. Banco
Industrial e Comercial, a Sao Paulo-based lender known as
BicBanco, halted its planned offering of local bonds on Nov. 16.  The central bank uncovered about 2.1 billion reais in
losses from accounting irregularities connected to the sale of
loan portfolios, central bank President  Henrique Meirelles  said
in an interview Nov. 18 in Brasilia. Silvio Santos, 79, is the
Brazilian media mogul who controls Grupo Silvio Santos. He
sought bailout funds after he discovered his own credit-card
company owed it 400 million reais, Meirelles said.  Regulatory Oversight  “The system worked quite well and the problem was caught
soon enough in a very successful way,” he said.  Panamericano aims to become the country’s biggest lender
for individuals “in the segments it operates” as it markets
products from Caixa, the national savings bank, according to a
statement e-mailed Nov. 18 by the bank’s press office. Grupo
Silvio Santos and Caixa Economica Federal won’t sell their
stakes in the bank, the shareholders said a day later.  Meirelles, 65, said he favors regulatory oversight of the
credit-card industry after Panamericano’s rescue. A task force
including officials from the central bank, Finance Ministry and
Justice Ministry is studying whether the industry needs
government supervision.  “There’s a caveat out there that it could be greater
regulation or greater governmental involvement due to the fact
there could be other stories like this,”  Bevan Rosenbloom , an
analyst with RBS Securities Inc. in Stamford, Connecticut, said
in a telephone interview.  ‘Better Thing’  While stricter regulations may reduce earnings, the impact
could be positive over the next couple of years, according to
DoubleLine’s Padilla.  “If the profits are reduced, but there’s more information
available then to me as a bond investor, it’s a better thing,”
Padilla said. “There will be more certainty that I’ll achieve
my repayment. If this indeed turns out to be an isolated event,
if the government continues to be as aggressive in dealing with
this as they have been, then the bounce back can happen.”  Brazilian banks more than tripled their international
offerings from last year’s $4.3 billion to help finance loan
growth as Latin America’s biggest economy expands at the fastest
pace in two decades. The sales account for 54 percent of the
$36.9 billion raised by Brazilian companies abroad this year,
according to Bloomberg data.  Outstanding loans in Brazil climbed to 1.61 trillion reais
in September from 1.35 trillion reais a year earlier, according
to the central bank.  Debt Crisis  Concern Europe’s debt crisis is worsening after a bailout
of Ireland is also curbing demand for debt sold by Brazilian
corporate issuers, according to  Natalia Corfield , a corporate
debt analyst at ING Groep INV in New York. Irish Prime Minister
 Brian Cowen  announced Nov. 22 he will seek elections early next
year. Over the weekend, the government said it would ask the
European Union and the International Monetary Fund to bail out
the nation’s banking system.  “It’s not only mid-sized banks that are not recovering,”
Corfield said in a telephone interview. “Everything else is not
trading very well. We don’t know if it’s only Ireland or it’s
going to be Portugal as well. People are afraid of a big problem
in Europe.”  The real rose 0.3 percent to 1.7311 per dollar at 6:52 a.m.
New York time.  The yield on Brazil’s overnight interest-rate futures
contract due in January 2012 rose 4 basis points to 11.89
percent.  Default Swap  The cost of protecting the nation’s debt against non-
payment for five years with credit-default swaps climbed four
basis points to 114, according to data compiled by CMA
DataVision. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a government or company fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries shrank 3 basis points to 186,
according to JPMorgan.  Maria Fernanda Ramos Coelho , president of state-owned Caixa
Economica Federal, which owns 49 percent of Panamericano, said
in an interview last week in Brasilia that Caixa will provide
“all the necessary support” to keep the bank operating.  “While it seems like it’s just a one-off thing, people
want more reassurances,” said DoubleLine’s Padilla. “And you
can only do that with time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Veronica Navarro Espinosa  in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  