-- Gartner Says Legal ‘White-Box’ Mobile Phones Increase
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2010-11-24T15:44:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/gartner-says-more-white-box-mobile-phones-are-now-licensed.html
Mobile phones made by “white-box”
vendors in Asia are increasingly registered and tracked like
phones from bigger manufacturers, increasing estimates for the
size of the overall market, said  Carolina Milanesi , an analyst
at researcher Gartner Inc.  Gartner estimated full-year growth for the handset market
at 30 percent in a  report  this month, citing growth of unbranded
or white-box shipments. It earlier predicted 13 percent to 15
percent. Last year, 70 percent of white-box phones were sold
with fake International Mobile Equipment Identity numbers or
through illegitimate channels, and weren’t counted by Gartner,
Milanesi said today in a  blog post . This year, 70 percent are
legal sales that Gartner counts.  “Manufacturing did grow, but the main reason for the high
growth is more linked to the change in business model than a
massive spike in end-user demand,” said Milanesi, based in
Egham, U.K. Some white-box companies that were selling illegal
phones went out of business, while others are now selling
through more mainstream distributors, she said.  IMEI numbers are identifiers encoded in mobile-phone
circuits to enable handsets to be tracked on wireless networks.
They are supposed to be unique to each unit and can be used to
shut down a phone that has been stolen. The Indian government
has banned the import of phones without IMEI numbers and called
on  carriers  to block phones whose identifiers haven’t been
registered by manufacturers as legitimate.  Nokia Slips  The “other” category shipments counted by Stamford,
Conn.-based Gartner, which includes white-box vendors, increased
to 137.8 million in the third quarter from 49.9 million a year
earlier, reducing the calculated market share for the top
vendors.  The share for  Nokia Oyj , the world’s biggest maker of
mobile phones, fell to 28.2 percent from 36.7 percent last year,
based on the overall market figures including white-box vendors,
Gartner said. Nokia’s share among the top 10 vendors decreased
more modestly, to 42.1 percent from 43.8 percent, based on
Gartner’s numbers.  Gartner has revised its market size estimates for the first
two quarters of this year and isn’t planning to restate the
market size for 2009, Milanesi said in the blog post.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Diana ben-Aaron  in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at   vroot@bloomberg.net  