-- Gazprom to Expand LNG Projects, Seek More of Europe Gas Market
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2010-11-24T07:35:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/gazprom-to-expand-lng-production-on-shtokman-seek-more-of-european-market.html
OAO Gazprom  plans to expand
liquefied natural gas production with a “timely” start of the
Shtokman project in the Arctic as the Russian export monopoly
aims to take a larger share of the global market.  State-run Gazprom’s board told management to enter new
markets and ensure Russian gas is competitive in Europe, the
Moscow-based company said in an e-mailed statement late
yesterday.  Gazprom, the world’s biggest gas producer, supplies about a
quarter of Europe’s need for the fuel. Russia plans to increase
its share to 32 percent in 2020 even as competitors Norway and
Qatar offer more flexible terms at a time of oversupply.  After demand slumped last year, Gazprom agreed to adapt
some of its European contracts through 2012.  To diversify export markets, Gazprom is looking to supply
piped gas to China and possibly South Korea, while considering
expanding LNG facilities in Russia’s Far East and joining
liquefaction projects abroad, according to the statement.  Gazprom has delayed decisions on increasing LNG output as
it considers how to develop its Shtokman field in the north and
whether to add facilities in the east, while global competitors
boost capacity. The company has spent at least six years
pondering an expansion to the $22 billion Sakhalin-2 project,
Russia’s first LNG plant that started up last year.  As Russia delays, Exxon Mobil Corp., Chevron Corp. and
competing suppliers are locking up long-term deals with
PetroChina Co. from LNG projects in Australia and Southeast
Asia.  The board also wants Gazprom to monitor shale gas
developments around the world, according to the statement late
yesterday. Shale gas projects in the U.S. reduced the need for
imports, leading to the diversion of some cargoes to Europe and
damping spot prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  