-- GE's JSF Engine Should Get Funds in Stopgap Spending Bill, Lawmakers Say
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2010-11-24T12:26:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/ge-s-jsf-engine-must-be-in-stopgap-spending-bill-lawmakers-say.html
General Electric Co .’s alternative
Joint Strike Fighter engine should be included in any new
stopgap legislation that keeps the U.S. executive branch funded
after Dec. 3, according to a bipartisan group of six lawmakers.  The money should be part of a so-called continuing
resolution that keeps most government programs at current
spending levels until Congress passes a defense budget for this
fiscal year, the lawmakers wrote in a Nov. 19 letter.  Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  opposes money for the GE
engine as unnecessary and a waste of money.  United Technologies
Corp .’s Pratt & Whitney unit makes the primary JSF engine, and
Gates has said repeatedly he would urge President  Barack Obama 
to veto a bill funding the GE version.  Congress approved stopgap legislation Sept. 30 to keep the
government from shutting down as lawmakers headed home to
campaign for the Nov. 2 midterm elections. That measure didn’t
contain the $485 million the House voted May 27 to continue
engine development. The bill expires Dec. 3 and must be renewed.  It isn’t clear how a loss of engine funds would affect the
GE program, said  Rick Kennedy , a spokesman for the Fairfield,
Connecticut-based company. The project has about 2,400 employees
in the U.S. GE and its congressional allies say having a second
engine is pivotal for ensuring the JSF’s readiness.  Lawmakers backing the GE engine addressed their letter to
Representative  Norm Dicks , a Washington Democrat who chairs the
House defense appropriations committee. The signers include
 Howard McKeon , a California Republican in line to lead the House
Armed Services Committee when the 112th Congress convenes in
January. Republicans will have a majority in the House.  McKeon was joined by senior committee Republicans  Roscoe Bartlett  of Maryland and  Todd Akin  of Missouri and outgoing
Chairman  Ike Skelton , a Missouri Democrat who was defeated on
Nov. 2.  The JSF is being purchased by the Air Force, Navy and
Marines to replace different types of fighter and strike
aircraft.  Lockheed Martin Corp . is tailoring the plane to meet
each service’s needs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Capaccio  in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  