-- German Business Confidence May Ease From Three-Year High as Growth Slows
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2010-11-24T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/german-business-confidence-may-ease-from-three-year-high-as-growth-slows.html
German  business confidence  probably
eased from a three-and-a-half-year high in November after
economic growth slowed from a record pace and Europe’s sovereign
debt crisis clouded the outlook.  The  Ifo institute  will say its  business climate index ,
based on a survey of 7,000 executives, fell to 107.5 from 107.6
in October, which was the highest since May 2007, according to
the median of 42 forecasts in Bloomberg News  survey . Ifo
releases the report at 10 a.m. in Munich today.  German growth slowed to 0.7 percent in the third quarter
from a record 2.3 percent in the second as the global recovery
stuttered and debt-strapped euro-area nations cut spending,
slackening demand for German exports. At the same time, falling
unemployment is boosting private consumption in Europe’s largest
economy, which the government’s council of economic advisors
expects to expand 3.7 percent this year.  “Economic growth is very well balanced at the moment,
driven not only by foreign trade but also domestic demand,”
said  Andreas Scheuerle , an economist at Dekabank in Frankfurt.
“However, we’ll see weaker growth around year-end as exports
slow down.”  Ifo’s measure of executives’ expectations will decline to
104.7 from 105.1, the survey of economists shows. The gauge of
the current situation will probably rise to 110.4 from 110.2.
That would be the highest since March 2008.  Stocks Rally  Germany’s benchmark  DAX stock index  has gained 13 percent
this year, compared with a decline of 6 percent in the Euro
Stoxx 50 gauge of euro-area equities. German  investor confidence 
rose for the first time in seven months in November as the
economy powered ahead of its euro-area neighbors.  Unemployment  fell below the three-million mark in October
to the lowest in 18 years as companies stepped up hiring to meet
foreign demand for goods including cars and machinery,
supporting private consumption.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  and  Daimler AG ’s Mercedes-Benz,
the world’s two largest makers of luxury autos, will shorten
Christmas breaks at their factories because of surging demand
for new models. “Production capacity is the limiting factor at
the moment,”  Michael Rebstock , a spokesman for BMW, said in a
phone interview this week.  Euro-area governments’ efforts to rein in ballooning budget
deficits may still damp German growth. Ireland this week became
the second euro nation after Greece to seek a bailout from the
European Union and International Monetary Fund, and investors
are  speculating  Portugal could be next.  German  factory orders  unexpectedly dropped in September,
led by a slump in euro-area demand for investment goods, and
 industrial production  also fell.  “Looking forward, we won’t go ahead with the same pace as
we had in the second quarter, which was exceptional,” said
 Juergen Michels , chief euro-area economist at Citigroup Inc. in
London. “But it is likely to be decent growth by German
standards.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christian Vits  in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeffrey Black  in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  