-- Business Confidence in Germany Unexpectedly Surges to Record in November
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 2010-11-24T09:54:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/german-business-confidence-unexpectedly-surges-to-record-high-in-november.html
German  business confidence 
unexpectedly surged to a record high in November as domestic
spending increased, bolstering the economic outlook.  The Munich-based  Ifo institute  said its  business climate
index , based on a survey of 7,000 executives, rose to 109.3 from
107.7 in October. That’s the highest since records for a
reunified Germany began in 1991. Economists predicted a decline
to 107.5, according to the median of 42 forecasts in Bloomberg
News  survey .  Household spending is putting Germany’s economy on a firmer
footing even as global and euro-area demand for its exports
starts to slacken. While the pace of economic expansion slowed
to 0.7 percent in the third quarter from a record 2.3 percent in
the second, private consumption was one of the main growth
contributors, the Federal Statistics Office said yesterday.
German sports carmaker Porsche SE today reported a sevenfold
increase in operating profit.  “This is a boom level,”  Holger Schmieding , chief
economist at Joh Berenberg Gossler & Co. in London, said of
today’s Ifo reading. “Domestic demand is really gathering
steam.”  Ifo’s gauge of executives’ expectations rose to 106.3, also
a record high, from 105.2, and a measure of the current
situation jumped to 112.3 from 110.2.  The euro initially rose on the report before resuming its
decline to trade at $1.3312 at 10:48 a.m. in Frankfurt.  Outpacing Europe  Europe’s largest economy will grow 3.7 percent this year,
according to the government’s council of economic advisors, even
as the region’s sovereign debt crisis curbs growth in debt-
strapped nations such as Greece, Ireland and Portugal.  Germany will remain the “economic powerhouse” of the 16-
nation euro area, said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING
Group in Brussels. “Amidst new financial market turmoil and
sovereign debt woes in the euro zone, the German economy seems
to be an island of happiness.”  Germany’s benchmark  DAX stock index  has gained more than 12
percent this year, compared with a decline of 7 percent in the
Euro Stoxx 50 gauge of euro-area equities. German  investor
confidence  rose for the first time in seven months in November
as the economy powered ahead of its euro-area neighbors.  Unemployment  fell below the three-million mark in October
to the lowest in 18 years as companies stepped up hiring to meet
foreign demand for goods including cars and machinery,
supporting private consumption.  Shorter Christmas  Porsche, the maker of the 911 sports car, today said
operating profit jumped to 395 million euros ($526 million) in
the three months through October as sales climbed 80 percent.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  and  Daimler AG ’s Mercedes-Benz,
the world’s two largest makers of luxury autos, will shorten
Christmas breaks at their factories because of stronger demand
for new models. “Production capacity is the limiting factor at
the moment,”  Michael Rebstock , a spokesman for BMW, said in a
phone interview this week.  Euro-area governments’ efforts to rein in ballooning budget
deficits may still damp German growth. Ireland this week became
the second euro nation after Greece to seek a bailout from the
European Union and International Monetary Fund, and investors
are  speculating  Portugal could be next.  German  factory orders  unexpectedly dropped in September,
led by a slump in euro-area demand for investment goods, and
 industrial production  also fell.  “The recovery has more legs than just exports,” said  Jens Sondergaard , an economist at Nomura International Plc in London.
“Consumption was pretty strong in Germany in the third quarter,
and so was investment. All lights are flashing green.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christian Vits  in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeffrey Black  in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  