-- German Banks Say Merkel's Crisis Mechanism May Derail Bond Sales From 2013
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2010-11-24T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/german-banks-say-merkel-s-crisis-mechanism-may-hurt-bond-sales.html
Germany’s BDB banking association,
which represents lenders including Deutsche Bank AG, said
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s plan to make investors shoulder more
risk if states can’t pay their debts may derail bond sales from
2013.  The European Union’s 750 billion-euro ($1 trillion) bailout
fund for euro-area countries will expire in mid-2013, leaving a
gap before a so-called permanent crisis-resolution mechanism
being pushed by Merkel can take full effect, the BDB said.  “Plans must be made now on ways to shape the transition
period,” the  Berlin-based BDB  said today in its monthly report.
“Without convincing answers regarding the question of
transition, a new crisis mechanism could in the worst case bring
more uncertainty rather than planning reliability.”  The BDB’s comments highlight the risks associated with
Merkel’s plan, which is backed by the Netherlands and opposed by
some leaders of indebted European nations including Spanish
Prime Minister  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero . European Central
Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  has indicated that discussion
of the mechanism now risks raising the pressure on so-called
peripheral euro-area nations such as Greece and Ireland.  “A transparent procedure for dealing with sovereign debt
crises in the euro region that includes private creditors is
sensible in principle,” the BDB said. “After all, one of the
causes of the current sovereign debt crisis was that the risk of
unsound fiscal and macro policies wasn’t adequately reflected in
the yield spreads of public debtors.”  Bonds Plunge  Bonds from Ireland to Portugal have plunged since EU
leaders agreed on Oct. 29 to consider Merkel’s proposal, part of
European efforts to replace the temporary rescue fund created in
May after Greece’s near-default. The  extra yield  demanded to
hold Spanish 10-year debt rather than German bunds rose 27 basis
points yesterday to 236, a euro-era record.  The fiscal situation at highly-indebted issuers of new debt
would have to “improve significantly” from 2013 for bond sales
to run smoothly, a prospect that’s “not very realistic” from
today’s perspective, the BDB said.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  on Nov. 19
stressed that the planned mechanism “is without relevance” for
current bondholders and would only come into effect after June
2013. At the same time, markets “want and need planning
reliability as quickly as possible” for what will happen after
then, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rainer Buergin  in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling or  jhertling@bloomberg.net  