-- Giants Bench Running Back Bradshaw After His Sixth Fumble; Jacobs to Start
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2010-11-24T20:27:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/giants-bench-running-back-bradshaw-after-his-sixth-fumble-jacobs-to-start.html
The New York Giants’  Ahmad Bradshaw  was replaced as the team’s starting running back by
 Brandon Jacobs  after committing his sixth fumble this season in
a loss to the Philadelphia Eagles.  Jacobs will get the start over Bradshaw when the Giants
host the Jacksonville Jaguars on Nov. 28, Giants coach  Tom Coughlin  told reporters today. Bradshaw, who is second in the
NFC with 867 yards rushing this season, and  D.J. Ware  also will
get playing time.  “We’d like to have Ahmad evaluate the whole situation and
improve obviously in that area,” Coughlin said. “We have a
couple of things that hopefully we can help with in the small
amount of time that we devote to individuals at this time of
year, but hopefully there is something we can do to continue to
resolve that issue.”  Bradshaw said he wasn’t surprised at Coughlin’s decision
and that he wants to do “whatever is good for the team.”  “All I can do is listen to those guys, take everything in,
the coaching in, as much as I can,” he told reporters. “My
fumbles happen on the extra effort. All I can do is play my
game, and it all comes natural. All I can really do is get what
I can get and go down.”  Bradshaw’s most recent fumble came while trying to fight
off a tackle and gain extra yardage in the Giants’ 27-17 loss to
the Philadelphia Eagles on Nov. 21 that dropped New York (6-4)
out of first place in the National Football Conference’s East
Division. The Eagles are 7-3.  “I see people that aren’t even worried about tackling,
they just go try to grab the ball,” Coughlin said. “I think
there’s a spot there where the absolute most secure position, no
matter if you’re striving for extra yards or what, has to be the
number one priority.”  Bradshaw leads all National Football League running backs
with six fumbles and five lost fumbles on 185 carries this
season. He had three fumbles in 253 career rushes over the three
previous seasons.  While both players have five rushing touchdowns, Jacobs has
gained 387 yards on 78 carries, fumbling once.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mason Levinson  in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 