-- Gillard Gives Australian Broadband Details to Win Support for Telstra Laws
-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 2010-11-24T05:07:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/gillard-gives-australian-broadband-details-to-win-support-for-telstra-laws.html
Australian  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  released confidential details on the government’s
planned high-speed Internet plan to try to gain support for a
related law to split  Telstra Corp. ’s businesses.  Gillard released part of NBN Co.’s corporate plan, boosted
consumer protection in the planned national network and
established a committee to oversee its rollout as part of an
agreement with independent Senator Nick Xenophon. This clears
the way for a vote on the Telstra law in the Senate today.  Telstra’s retail business needs to be split from its
copper-wire network to make way for a national plan to provide
Internet services to Australia’s remotest corners. The plan is
the nation’s biggest infrastructure project, with A$35.7 billion
($34.9 billion) in capital expenditure including a A$9 billion
deal with Telstra, today’s documents show.  “We’ve determined, following discussions, that it is
possible to publicly release carefully selected materials which
answer some key questions,” Gillard told reporters in Canberra
today about negotiations with senators. Telstra  shares  rose as
much as 2.2 percent after Sky News reported Xenophon would
support the laws. Xenophon said he’ll confirm his position at
today’s vote.  The government needs to gain seven extra votes to pass laws
in the Senate. The Australian Greens party, with five senators,
will back the Telstra split and the government needs to secure
Xenophon and Family First lawmaker Steve Fielding. Fielding’s
spokesman, Kane Silom, said the senator was “close to a
decision” and expected a vote between 5 p.m. and 6 p.m.  Approval Process  “Throughout this process, I have argued that the
government needed to publicly release the information in the NBN
business plan that the Senate needed in order to make an
informed decision on this bill,” Xenophon told reporters in
Canberra today. “Until last night it was refusing, arguing that
information was commercial-in-confidence. I didn’t buy that.”  Gillard’s Internet plan drew fire ahead of the Aug. 21
election for its cost. She clung to power by forming a minority
government with independent lawmakers from rural regions who
welcomed the improved services. Both houses of parliament are to
debate the broader national broadband plan next year.  The broadband network is set to be completed by 2018,
laying fiber optics that would reach 93 percent of the
population, with the remainder served by wireless and satellite
coverage. The project is comparable in size to the A$42 billion
stimulus the government announced in February 2009 as it sought
to protect the nation from recession.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at   billaustin@bloomberg.net  