-- MGM Studios Creditors to Gain Seats on New Board
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2010-11-24T19:20:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/mgm-studios-creditors-to-gain-seats-on-new-board-update1-.html
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studios Inc.’s
new board will include three directors from the creditors that
helped restructure the company, according to bankruptcy court
papers that leaves two directors unnamed.  Patrick H. Daugherty, a partner at Highland Capital
Management LP; Christopher Pucillo, founder of Solus Alternative
Asset Management LP; and Kevin Ulrich, chief executive officer
of Anchorage Capital Group LLC, will join the nine-member board,
according to documents filed yesterday in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court 
in Manhattan.  Highland, Solus and Anchorage were part of the creditors’
committee that helped negotiate Los Angeles-based MGM’s
restructuring, along with Davidson Kempner Capital Management
LLC, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Invesco Inc.  Jason O. Hirschhorn, recently co-president of social
networking company MySpace, and Frederic G. Reynolds, former
chief financial officer of CBS Corp., also were named as
directors.  MGM, distributor of the James Bond and Rocky movies
reorganizing in Chapter 11, previously said that Gary Barber,
founder of Spyglass Entertainment Group Inc., and his partner  Roger Birnbaum  would run MGM after its bankruptcy. They will
serve as directors and co-chief executive officers, according to
the court papers.  Billionaire Carl Icahn will designate one of the nine
directors after agreeing to support the plan following MGM’s
rejection of a takeover bid from  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp .,
MGM has said.  MGM, whose 4,000-title film and television library included
“The Wizard of Oz” and “Gone With the Wind,” has a co-
production deal with  Time Warner Inc .’s Warner Bros. on a
planned movie based on J.R.R. Tolkien’s novel “The Hobbit.”  The case is In re Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studies Inc. 10-
15774, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 