-- Goldman Sachs’s Tourre Facing New Claim in SEC Lawsuit
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2010-11-24T21:36:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/goldman-sachs-s-tourre-facing-additional-sec-claim-on-subprime-mortgages.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission expanded its complaint against  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc.  trader  Fabrice Tourre , accusing him of giving the company
“substantial assistance” as it misled investors in a product
linked to subprime mortgages.  The SEC, which reached a $550 million settlement with
Goldman Sachs in July, included the new claim against Tourre in
an amended complaint filed Nov. 22 at U.S. District Court in New
York. The London-based trader, accused of helping the Wall
Street firm defraud investors in a product known as Abacus, may
face trial after failing to win dismissal of the SEC’s case.  Goldman Sachs and Tourre were sued April 16 by the SEC,
which accused them of failing to tell investors that hedge fund
Paulson & Co. helped pick the underlying securities for the
collateralized debt obligation and planned to bet against them.  The SEC “is clearly preparing for this case to go the
distance,” said  Jacob Frenkel , a partner at Potomac, Maryland-
based law firm Shulman Rogers Gandal Pordy & Ecker. “They want
to make sure that their allegations are sufficiently broad” so
that a jury could still find him responsible for aiding fraud
even if they determine he wasn’t the primary violator, he said.  A phone call to  Pamela Chepiga , Tourre’s attorney at Allen
& Overy LLP in New York, wasn’t returned. Goldman Sachs
spokesman  Michael DuVally  declined to comment.  Tourre “played a principal role” in the offer and sale of
the securities to Dusseldorf, Germany-based IKB Deutsche
Industriebank AG, and “was aware” of marketing materials that
omitted Paulson’s role in selecting underlying securities for
Abacus, the SEC said.  The case is SEC v. Goldman Sachs, 10-CV-3229, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Gallu  in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 