-- Big Government Not Invited to Thanksgiving Feast: Caroline Baum
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2010-11-24T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/gop-puts-the-lame-back-in-lame-duck-session-commentary-by-caroline-baum.html
It is the tradition of this column
every year at this time to recount the story of Thanksgiving.  The history of the Pilgrims’ early struggles in their new
land and triumph over obstacles resonates on many levels, from
the personal to the political. The government’s actions in the
wake of the financial crisis of 2008 -- some necessary, others
not -- and intrusion on the private sector have given the story
renewed poignancy.  On Nov. 2, the U.S. electorate resoundingly repudiated
Barack Obama and the Democratic agenda, the president’s
protestations to the contrary notwithstanding. Some “no” votes
came from an energized Tea Party movement, for whom less
(government) is more. Others voted Republican because they
thought Obama was focused on the wrong things: on health-care
reform rather than jobs, as if the president creates jobs. Still
others were fed up with Washington and voted to kick the bums
out.  With control of the House and a pickup of six Senate seats,
Republicans will have to prove they are worthy of the public’s
trust come Jan. 3. (Obama still has his veto pen.) In the
interim, we can be thankful Americans expressed a desire to
return to their roots (low taxes, for sure; reduced government
benefits? not so much) and hope their voices will be heard.  For source material, I rely on the accounts of  William
Bradford , governor of the Plymouth Bay Colony for 30 years
between 1621 and 1656. Bradford’s history “ Of Plimoth
Plantation ” was first published in 1856.  First Famine  Most Americans think of Thanksgiving as a day off from
school or work, a time to gather with friends and family and
celebrate with a huge feast. If children know anything about the
origins of this national  holiday , declared each year by
presidential  proclamation , it’s that the Pilgrims, grateful for
a good harvest in their new land, set aside this day to give
thanks.  Adults aren’t any better informed. They may know something
of the hardships encountered by the  Pilgrims , a group of English
separatists who came to the New World to escape religious
persecution. What they probably don’t know, since it’s not part
of the politically correct high school curriculum, is how these
immigrants overcame obstacles and prospered in the New World.  The Pilgrims landed at Plymouth Rock in 1620 and
established the Plymouth Bay Colony. The first winters were
harsh, and crop yields were poor. In spite of their deep
religious convictions, the Pilgrims took to stealing from one
another.  Empty Larder  Half the Pilgrims died or returned to England in the first
year. Those who remained went hungry. Even so, the 53 remaining
pilgrims celebrated the harvest, as was the custom in England,
in the autumn of 1621.  Finally, in the spring of 1623, Governor Bradford and the
others “begane to thinke how they might raise as much corne as
they could, and obtaine a better crop than they had done, that
they might not still thus languish in misery,” according to
Bradford’s history.  One of the traditions the Pilgrims had brought with them
from England was a practice known as “farming in common.”
Everything they produced was put into a common pool; the harvest
was rationed according to need.  They had thought “that the taking away of property, and
bringing in community into a common wealth, would make them
happy and flourishing,” Bradford recounts.  Born to Work  They were wrong. “For this community (so far as it was)
was found to breed much confusion and discontent, and retard
much imployment that would have been to their benefite and
comforte,” Bradford writes.  Young, able-bodied men resented working for others without
compensation. They thought it an “injuestice” to receive the
same allotment of food and clothing as those who didn’t pull
their weight. What they lacked were appropriate incentives.  After the Pilgrims had endured near-starvation for three
winters, Bradford decided to experiment when it came time for
spring planting in 1623. He allocated a plot of land to each
family, that “they should set corne every man for his owne
perticuler, and in that regard trust to themselves.”  The results were nothing short of miraculous.  Bradford writes: “This had very good success; for it made
all hands very  industrious , so as much more corne was planted
than other waise would have bene by any means the Govr or any
other could use, and saved him a great deall of trouble, and
gave far better content.”  Proper Incentives  The women now went willingly into the field, carrying their
young children on their backs. Those who previously claimed they
were too old or ill to work embraced the idea of  private
property  once they could enjoy the fruits of their own labor.
Eventually they produced enough corn to trade the excess for
furs and other desired commodities.  Given the proper incentives, the Pilgrims enjoyed a
bountiful harvest in the fall of 1623, and set aside “a day of
thanksgiving” to thank God for their good fortune.  “Any generall wante or famine hath not been amongst them
since to this day,” Bradford writes in an entry from 1647, the
last year covered by his history.  Their good fortune had little to do with God. In 1623, they
were responding to the same incentives that, almost four
centuries later, form the basis for free and prosperous
economies.  When the financial crisis hit, capitalism took the fall.
After years of moving in the opposite direction, we should give
thanks that free markets have found a voice in Washington.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Caroline Baum  in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  