-- Michelin Italy Adds Two Double-Star Eateries, 32 Single Stars
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2010-11-24T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/michelin-guide-adds-two-double-star-eateries-in-italy-32-win-first-stars.html
Michelin today adds two double-star
restaurants and 32 with one star in its guide to Italy.  The new two-star venues are Jasmin, in Chiusa, Trentino
Alto Adige; and  Bracali , in Massa Marittima Ghirlanda, Tuscany.
The additions take Italy’s total to six with three stars, 37
with two and 233 with one. By region, Lombardy leads with 52
starred venues, followed by Piedmont, with 37.  “The number of new entries attests to the recent trend in
Italian gourmet dining, where the focus is increasingly on
product quality, the chef’s personality as revealed through his
or her cuisine, preparation and flavors, and consistency over
time -- without forgetting value for money,” Michelin said
today in an e-mailed release.  Three stars mean exceptional cuisine, worth a special
journey; two stars are for excellent cooking, worth a detour;
one star denotes a very good restaurant in its category.  Earlier today, Michelin named four new three-star
restaurants in Tokyo, taking the total for Japan to 26, the same
number as France, the home of the dining guide.  Michelin & Cie . is the world’s  second-biggest tiremaker 
after Bridgestone Corp. It produced its first guide in August
1900, distributed free of charge (until 1920) and originally
intended for chauffeurs. The guide contained practical
information, including street maps and tips on using and
repairing tires. The guides have expanded internationally under
the director, Jean-Luc Naret, and now cover 23 countries.  Michelin’s guide to France is scheduled for publication
early in March. Before that, Hong Kong & Macau is slated for
Dec. 2; the U.K. guide appears in January. The last volume to
appear, in mid-March, is “Main Cities of Europe.” That guide
covers Copenhagen, where interest centers on whether chef  Rene Redzepi ’s restaurant Noma will gain its third star.  Naret plans to step down at the end of this year.  ( Richard Vines  is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Richard Vines  in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or Richardvines on
 http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 