-- ICICI Predicts Bond Quota Auction as Pictet Prepares to Bid: India Credit
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2010-11-25T06:53:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/icici-predicts-bond-quota-auction-as-pictet-prepares-to-bid-india-credit.html
India’s government may make good on
a September pledge to open its bond market wider within the next
two weeks, as global funds say the rupee’s drop to a two-month
low has made the debt attractive.  The nation may hold its first auction of bond investment
quotas to foreign buyers in more than three months by early
December, according to ICICI Securities Primary Dealership Ltd.,
a unit of India’s second largest-lender. The benchmark  10-year
bond  yield may slide more than 30 basis points, or 0.30
percentage point, to 7.70 percent within a month after the sale
of new permits,  Morgan Stanley  India Primary Dealer said.  The  Ministry of Finance , which raised its cap on foreign
investor holdings of debt by 50 percent to $30 billion on Sept.
23, has greater incentive to implement the change after the
rupee retreated 3.8 percent from a two-year high last month.
India’s yields, which are almost three times higher than those
in China, are appealing because inflation is slowing, according
to Pictet Asset Management.  “Indian government bonds are fairly cheaper compared with
other Asian markets in historical terms,” said  Philippe Petit ,
senior investment manager in Singapore at Pictet Asset
Management, who helps manage $17 billion of emerging-market debt
said in an interview yesterday. “In a relative value basis, it
is attractive.”  The  Securities and Exchange Board of India  last auctioned
quotas to foreign investors for buying bonds in August, the
third time this year. No entity was allowed to bid for more than
1 billion rupees ($22 million) of government bonds and 10
billion rupees of corporate debt in the last tender.  Yield Spread  The Indian 10-year yield has dropped 16 basis points to
8.02 percent from a two-year high of 8.18 percent touched last
month as slowing inflation lured buyers. The yield, which fell
one basis point today, is still 509 basis points above
Treasuries of similar maturity. Three-year debt in India offered
7.36 percent, compared with 2.77 percent in China, 6.94 percent
in Russia and 12.36 percent in Brazil.  India’s $1.3 trillion  economy  may expand 8.5 percent in the
year to March 31, the most in three years, the  central bank 
forecast on Nov. 2. The monetary authority expects the benchmark
wholesale-price  inflation  to slow to 5.5 percent by March 31. It
was 8.6 percent in October.  Serious Investors  While raising the debt cap, the finance ministry said on
Sept. 23 that an extra $5 billion investment limit for
government bonds should be used only to buy securities due in
more than five years. The administration also said funds will be
allowed to buy an additional $5 billion of corporate bonds sold
by infrastructure companies.  “The tenor is designed in such a way that only serious
players and long-term investors come in,”  Manoj Swain , chief
executive officer at Morgan Stanley India Primary Dealer in
Mumbai, said in an interview on Nov. 23. “With the rupee under
pressure now, the probability of debt being auctioned to foreign
institutional investors is very high now.”  N. Hariharan, a spokesman for the Securities & Exchange
Board of India, declined to comment on whether the quota will be
auctioned this month.  Swain said foreign capital is needed to bridge a trade
deficit. The shortfall in the current account, the broadest
measure of trade, widened to a record $13.7 billion in the three
months ended June 30.  Overseas investors have  poured  the equivalent of $28.5
billion into Indian shares and $10 billion into rupee debt this
year, according to data published by the Securities & Exchange
Board of India. Foreign direct investment totaled a net $6.3
billion in the first six months of 2010, while commercial
borrowing abroad was $2.8 billion, according to the central
bank.  ‘Interesting Time’  India has the ability to absorb  capital inflows  of as much
as $70 billion without “any problem,” the Prime Minister’s top
economic adviser,  Chakravarthy Rangarajan , told reporters in New
Delhi on Nov. 11.  The Indian currency was little changed at 45.68 per dollar
today in Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
currency touched 45.84 yesterday, the weakest level since Sept.
20, after North Korea fired artillery shells at a South Korean
island on Nov. 23, killing two soldiers.  ‘Interesting Time’  “It’s an interesting time for foreign institutions to
invest in the Indian market and it will pay off in the longer
term,”  Udayan Chakrabarti , the vice president of emerging
markets fixed-income trading at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
in Mumbai said in an interview on Nov. 23. “It is favorable
because the rupee is weak, and in the overall trend, we expect
the rupee to strengthen against the dollar.”  The rupee will appreciate 5 percent to 43.50 per dollar by
December 2011, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg
survey of 15 economists.  The cost of protecting the debt of government-owned State
Bank of India, a proxy for the nation’s credit risk, has fallen
67 basis points to 172 from a one-year high reached in May,
according to data provider CMA. Credit-default swaps pay the
buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities or
the cash equivalent should a government or company fail to
adhere to its debt agreements. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Moody’s affirmed India’s foreign-currency debt rating at
Baa3 and raised its local-currency rating by one level to Ba1,
the highest non-investment grade on July 26.  Current Account  “The Indian current-account deficit cannot indefinitely
continue to grow and be financed by short-term capital,”  Aninda Mitra , a Singapore-based sovereign analyst at Moody’s Investors
Service, said in an interview to Bloomberg-UTV on Nov. 23. “We
would like to see either a diminution of the size of current-
account deficit or get more long-term stable flows.”  Indian local-currency debt returned 4.3 percent in 2010,
according to indexes compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc, as the
Reserve Bank of India raised  borrowing costs  by 150 basis points
to 6.25 percent. Investors in China earned 1.1 percent, the
least in the region, the indexes show.  Indian bond yields will have a bias toward declines over
the next six months if foreign investors are allowed to buy more
bonds,  Rajeev Radhakrishnan , a money manager at SBI Funds
Management Pvt., a unit of the nation’s biggest bank that
oversees assets worth $9.2 billion in debt and equities in
Mumbai, said in a phone interview on Nov. 23.  The  10-year bond yield  may drop as much as 10 basis points
after the auction quota is announced,  Sandeep Bagla , senior vice
president in charge of rates trading at ICICI Primary
Dealership, said in an interview yesterday.  “It will change the demand-supply equation slightly with
buying coming in from foreign institutional investors,” he
said. “I think you are closer to the event happening than
farther.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 V. Ramakrishnan  in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  