-- Microfinance Dominates Indonesian Shariah-Compliant Loans: Islamic Finance
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2010-11-24T04:29:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/microfinance-dominates-indonesian-shariah-loans-islamic-finance.html
Islamic loans targeting Indonesian
small businesses have grown to dominate Shariah-compliant credit
in the world’s most-populous Muslim nation, prompting the
country’s  biggest banks  to expand.  PT Bank Syariah Mandiri is adding branches in Java and
Sumatra to offer so-called microfinance loans because more than
90 percent of Indonesia’s 50 million small businessmen have no
access to regular bank financing, said Andri Vendredi, the head
of the division at the Jakarta-based arm of the nation’s largest
lender. PT Bank Muamalat Indonesia increased cooperatives set up
to offer such loans by 500 to 2,500 last year. PT Bank Syariah
BRI aims to triple its business next year.  Microfinance , typically involving loans of $5,000 or less,
is attracting commercial banks because of its wider profit
margins and lower defaults, according to the central bank, which
estimates the industry accounts for 70 percent of Islamic
lending. The loans accommodate the religion’s ban on interest by
sharing profits generated from asset purchases, fostering
entrepreneurship in an  economy  that grew 5.8 percent in the
third quarter from a year earlier.  “The financial crisis hit us a number of times but the
small businesses have proven to be more resilient,” Vendredi
said in a Nov. 12 interview from Jakarta. “Commercial banks are
tapping the segment because the market is huge, the return is
higher and the economy is expanding, offering opportunities for
funding the informal sector like food sellers and small
traders.”  Triple Loans  Outstanding Shariah-compliant loans to micro, small- and
medium-sized businesses may increase to 45.5 trillion rupiah
($5.09 billion) by year-end from 42 trillion rupiah in
September,  Mulya Siregar , the central bank’s director in charge
of Shariah banking, said in an interview yesterday. Banks and
financial institutions lent 879.7 billion rupiah to micro,
small- and medium-sized businesses in September, of which 22
percent went to the trade industry, while loans to the
agricultural sector made up about 2 percent, according to
central bank data.  BRI Syariah expects to triple loans to micro, small and
medium businesses to 1.5 trillion rupiah by the end of 2011 from
about 450 billion rupiah at the end of this year, Ventje
Rahardjo, president director at the unit of PT Bank Rakyat
Indonesia, the country’s second-largest lender, said in a Nov.
22 interview from Jakarta.  The bank’s Shariah-compliant micro loans typically use the
murabahah concept, in which the financing party purchases assets
for the client and sells them at a predetermined profit margin,
Rahardjo said. Murabahah is the most popular structure and is
used in microfinance initiatives across Afghanistan, Bangladesh,
Indonesia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen, according to last year’s
 report  by Allen & Overy LLP.  Biggest Market  In India, the world’s biggest market for such credits, a
quarter of microfinance institutions may collapse after the
local government in southern Andhra Pradesh state introduced new
rules in mid-October to cap interest rates companies can charge
and ordered them to collect payments monthly, rather than
weekly.  Bank Rakyat says it pioneered microfinance in the Asian
country when it helped channel subsidized government loans to
farmers in Java in the  1970s  as part of a national program to
boost rice production.  Muamalat, the country’s oldest Islamic lender, helped
establish 500 new cooperatives that provide micro financing in
2009, increasing to 2,500 the number of Shariah-compliant
cooperatives it has been involved in setting up since 1996, said
 Andi Buchari , the bank’s director of compliance and corporate
planning, in an interview from Jakarta on Nov. 22. Muamalat was
able to register annual growth of 20 percent to 30 percent for
the business in the past five years, he said.  Grameen Bank  Microfinance, typically aimed at households earning less
than $2 a day, was brought to prominence by  Grameen Bank in
Bangladesh , whose founder  Muhammad Yunus  won a Nobel Prize in
2006 for pioneering the service in 1976. An Islamic version of
the model was developed in Egypt in 1963 by economist Ahmad
Elnaggar, Allen & Overy said in the report in February 2009.  Islamic microfinance accounts for about 0.5 percent of
global microfinance, the London-based law firm said in the
report. The top three countries offering Shariah-compliant
microfinance are Indonesia, Bangladesh and Afghanistan, it said.
About 54,000 Indonesian microfinance units serve about 45
million depositors and 32 million borrowers, according to Allen
& Overy.  About 86 percent of Indonesia’s 243 million people are
Muslims, according to the Central Intelligence Agency’s  World
Factbook . The World Bank  said  about 2.7 billion people worldwide
have no access to formal financial services. About 60 percent of
Indonesians survive on less than $2 a day, according to the
bank’s  estimate .  Global Sukuk Sales  Global sales of Islamic bonds, which are backed by assets
or cash flows to comply with Shariah principles, fell 29 percent
to $13.7 billion this year from the same period in 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Malaysia’s 3.928 percent Islamic note due in June 2015 fell
today, pushing the yield up nine basis points to 2.78 percent,
according to prices provided by Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc. The extra yield investors demand to hold Dubai’s government
sukuk rather than Malaysia’s widened 11 basis points to 395
yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Global Shariah-compliant bonds returned 11.7 percent this
year, according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index ,
compared with a 14.3 percent gain for bonds in developing
markets, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified
Index shows.  The  difference  between the average yield for sukuk and the
London interbank offered rate narrowed one basis point to 340
yesterday.  Non-Performing Loans  The non-performing loan ratio for micro loans is generally
smaller than 2 percent compared with about 3.7 percent for
Islamic banks, Buchari at Muamalat said. Loans are usually paid
daily or weekly and are often given without collateral, allowing
a return of as much as 30 percent a year, said Buchari. That
compares with 13 percent to 14 percent for regular bank loans,
he said.  “The bank focuses on small businesses that may not be
bankable, but are feasible,” said Buchari. “A higher rate is
necessary to make up for the higher risks but they are still
lower than the interest charged by the moneylenders.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Soraya Permatasari  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  