-- IMF-Aided Inflation Makeover Means Debt to Keep Rallying: Argentina Credit
-- B y   C a m i l a   R u s s o   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 2010-11-24T22:01:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/imf-aided-inflation-makeover-means-debt-to-keep-rallying-argentina-credit.html
Argentina’s request for help from
the International Monetary Fund in redesigning its consumer
price index is a sign to Aviva Investors and Bulltick Capital
Markets that inflation-linked bonds will extend a six-month
rally.  The 11.1 percent  inflation rate  reported by the government
is less than half the 25 percent estimated by Bulltick. Private
economists and politicians say the government has underreported
inflation since early 2007, when then-President  Nestor Kirchner 
named a political appointee to head the agency that measures
consumer prices.  Argentina’s inflation-linked bonds surged 9.4 percent in
the month through yesterday, marking the  longest stretch  of
monthly gains since the period ending January 2007, according to
Barclays Plc. The government, which has refused to let the IMF
review its finances since 2006, said yesterday it will work with
the Washington-based fund on a national measure for inflation
that reflects differences in spending habits nationwide.  “We’re likely to review our positions and probably look to
increase our holdings,”  Jeremy Brewin , who helps manage $2.4
billion of emerging-market assets at Aviva Investors in London,
said in a telephone interview. “We’ll probably buy more debt
after the news. Even if it doesn’t indicate a full change in the
lack of transparency we had before, at least it’s a good step.”  Argentine inflation-linked bonds returned 49 percent this
year in local currency terms, compared with a 14 percent gain
for similar  securities  issued by Brazil and a 14 percent  advance 
for Mexican debt, according to Barclays data.  Argentina’s Shift  President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner ’s request for
assistance from the IMF on a consumer price index is a shift
from Argentina’s previous relationship with the organization.
Former President Kirchner, Fernandez’s late husband and
predecessor, said the IMF helped lead the country into its
record $95 billion debt default in 2001.  Argentina, which has refused a so-called Article IV review
of its economic policies that the IMF requires for all members,
tapped foreign  reserves  to repay its $9.5 billion debt to the
fund in 2006.  “The most relevant thing is that there’s an improvement in
the relationship between Argentina and the IMF,”  Alberto Bernal , head of fixed-income research at Bulltick, a Miami-based
brokerage that focuses on Latin America, said in a phone
interview. “This is analogous to saying that there’s an
improvement between Argentina and international markets, which
is good for bonds.”  Technical staff from the IMF will go to Argentina in
December to help draw up the index,  Ana Maria Edwin , director of
the national statistics agency known as Indec, told reporters
yesterday in Buenos Aires.  Yield Spread  The IMF acknowledged Argentina’s request in an e-mailed
statement.  “We are currently in contact with the authorities on
planning the missions,” said the statement issued by  Nicolas Eyzaguirre , director of the IMF’s Western Hemisphere Department.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Argentine dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell 30 basis points to 516
today at 4:52 p.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co.  The cost of protecting Argentine debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps fell 26 basis points to
659, according to data compiled by CMA. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities
or the cash equivalent should a government or company fail to
adhere to its debt agreements.  Warrants linked to economic growth rose 0.41 cent to 13.63
cents today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Peso Outlook  The peso was little changed today at 3.9730 per dollar.  Slower declines in the peso are helping preserve dollar-
based returns on inflation-linked bonds. The currency will slide
to 4.02 per dollar by yearend and drop to 4.3 by December 2011,
according to the median forecast of 12 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. In August, the analysts predicted a decline to 4.2
per dollar by yearend and 4.65 by the end of 2011.  Changes to the way the government reports inflation are
unlikely to occur in the short term, according to  Guillermo Mondino , the head of Latin America research at Barclays in New
York.  “While I think the reforms are more likely today than they
were yesterday, I don’t think they will be happening anytime
soon,” Mondino said in a telephone interview.  Doubts on Data  Indec’s consumer price index, which measures prices in the
city of Buenos Aires and its outskirts, has been questioned by
former Economy Minister  Roberto Lavagna  and Vice President  Julio Cobos . Indec workers, including former CPI director  Graciela Bevacqua , said the reports were being manipulated. Fernandez has
said the data is accurate.  “I can’t even remember how many years you’ve had doubts
and speculation about the veracity of the reported inflation in
Argentina given the whole Indec affair,”  Vitali Meschoulam , a
debt strategist with Morgan Stanley in New York, said in a
telephone interview. “Getting something like this would go a
long way in restoring the market’s faith in reported inflation
in Argentina.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Camila Russo  in New York at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net ;
 Ben Bain  in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  