-- Mukherjee Asks State-Run Banks to Review Loans to Companies Named in Probe
-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 2010-11-25T13:21:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/india-s-cbi-arrests-lic-housing-finance-chief-executive-on-housing-probe.html
India’s Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  asked state-run banks to review their loans to
companies named by federal investigators in a bribery and
improper credit disbursal probe.  Authorities yesterday arrested  Ramachandran R. Nair , chief
executive officer of LIC Housing Finance Ltd.,  Rajesh Sharma ,
chairman of Mumbai-based securities firm  Money Matters Financial
Services Ltd.  and executives at three lenders and an insurer.
The Central Bureau of Investigation accused Sharma of conspiring
with Nair to bribe state-run lenders’ executives in exchange for
loans for clients and confidential information.  Mukherjee’s call to lenders to check their “exposures” to
the companies may slow lending growth at state-run banks, which
account for 77 percent of credit in Asia’s second-fastest
growing major economy. Real estate developers may face higher
borrowing costs with loans being delayed, said  Parikshit Kandpal ,
a Mumbai-based analyst at Ambit Capital Pvt.  “We are going to see increased scrutiny by banks now,”
said Kandpal. “Real estate, infrastructure and power companies,
all such projects will now be scrutinized, so all will get
impacted.”  Money Matters was acting as a mediator and facilitator for
corporate loans and credit extended to builders, P. Kandaswamy,
CBI’s inspector general for Mumbai Zone 2 told reporters
yesterday in Mumbai.  A key  property stocks gauge  slumped after the CBI said Nair
showed “undue favor” to companies including DB Realty Ltd. and
Mantri Realty. The agency also said the bankers showed “undue
favor” to Lavasa Corp. another property developer.  Request for Documents  DB Realty Managing Director  Shahid Balwa  said the CBI had
requested documents on a 2 billion rupee ($44 million) loan from
LIC Housing. That “has nothing to do with the current
situation,” he said.  Money Matters  helped arrange a 1.15 billion rupee loan from
LIC Housing this year for Mumbai-based Sunil Mantri Realty,
Chairman Sunil Mantri said yesterday. The builder paid Money
Matters a brokerage fee, which ranged from 1 percent to 3
percent, he said.  Lavasa used Money Matters to help sell a stake in an
affiliate, President Rajgopal Nogja said in a phone interview
yesterday.  “Earlier banks were flexible and would allow refinancing
or extend payment deadlines,” Ambit’s Kandpal said. “But now
prudential norms and better checks will be in place now so it
won’t be easy for developers to get loans on time now.”  ‘Size of the Scam’  The other companies mentioned in the agency’s filing to
court yesterday include Suzlon, Entertainment World Lucknow,
Indore City Treasures, JP Group.  Suzlon Energy Ltd. hired Money Matters Financial Services
Ltd. as a financial adviser to help raise a loan in 2009, the
company said in an e-mailed statement.  “The size of the scam is in the order of crores” of
rupees, CBI’s Kandaswamy said yesterday, without providing a
specific figure. A crore is 10 million.  The investigating agency also arrested officials from
the Life Insurance Corp. of India, Bank of India, Central Bank
of India and Punjab National Bank, according to a statement.  Money Matters plummeted for a second day, LIC Housing
dropped 1.5 percent at the 3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai. The
benchmark Sensex index fell 0.7 percent.  “It does not seem to be limited to one company or one
sector: there are going to be issues on corporate governance,”
said  Paras Adenwala , chief executive officer at Capital
Portfolio Advisors in Mumbai, which advises non-resident Indians
on investments in the country. “You will see a segregation
between good stocks and bad stocks.”  ‘Bribing Officials’  LIC Housing, based in Mumbai, will take the necessary steps
to safeguard interests of various stakeholders, it said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday.  Life Insurance Corp. is looking into its investment
processes after CBI arrested one of its officials, Chairman
T.S. Vijayan said in an interview with Bloomberg UTV today.
Executives at Money Matters weren’t available at their offices,
which have been sealed by the agency.  Money Matters and its associates were “allegedly bribing
senior officials of public sector banks and financial
institutions for facilitating large scale corporate loans,”
according to the agency’s statement.  Central Bank’s Maninder Singh Johar, one of the arrested,
is a part-time director appointed by the government of India,  S. Sridhar , chairman and managing director of the Mumbai-based
lender, said by telephone.  K.R. Kamath , chairman and managing director of Punjab
National Bank in New Delhi, and  Alok Kumar Misra , who helms Bank
of India in Mumbai, weren’t available for comment.  LIC Housing’s Nair, Sharma of Money Matters and the other
six were remanded to custody until Nov. 29, a judge at the CBI
court in Mumbai said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 George Smith Alexander  in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net ;
 Anoop Agrawal  in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey St.Onge at   jstonge@bloomberg.net ;
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  