-- Indian Banks' ADRs Decline Following Arrest of LIC Housing Chief Executive
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2010-11-24T16:38:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/indian-banks-adrs-decline-following-arrest-of-lic-housing-chief-executive.html
Indian banks’ American depositary
receipts fell after the South Asian country’s federal
investigating agency arrested the chief executive officer of LIC
Housing Finance Ltd. and officials of some state-run banks
following a probe into bribes and improper loan disbursals.  ICICI Bank Ltd .’s ADRs lost 1 percent to $50.22 as of 11:13
a.m. in New York. HDFC Bank Ltd.’s ADRs slumped 2 percent to
$174.56. Both lenders weren’t named in the probe.  “This will definitely dent market confidence and the
credit-worthiness of financial institutions,” said  Gurunath Mudlapur , director at Atherstone Capital Markets Ltd., which
provides investment banking services in Mumbai. The companies
“are meant to be driven by trust and transparency.”  The Bombay Stock Exchange’s  Sensitive Index , or Sensex,
lost 231.99, or 1.2 percent, to 19,459.85 as of the 3:30 p.m.
close in Mumbai. The S&P CNX Nifty  Index on the National Stock
Exchange also lost 1.2 percent, to 5,865.75. The BSE 200 Index
declined 1.2 percent to 2,466.45.  LIC Housing , the home-loan arm of India’s largest insurer,
plunged 18 percent to 1,070.2 rupees today, its steepest slide
in at least 16 years, after Bloomberg-UTV reported the company
was being probed by India’s Central Bureau of Investigation.  The CBI announced the arrest of LIC Housing’s CEO
 Ramachandran R. Nair  after Indian markets closed. The Mumbai-
based company said in a statement that it will take the
necessary steps to safeguard interests of various stakeholders.  Corporate Governance  The CBI also took into custody  Rajesh Sharma , chairman of
Mumbai-based brokerage Money Matters Financial Services Ltd.
Money Matters was acting as a mediator and facilitator for
corporate loans and credit extended to builders, P. Kandaswamy,
the CBI’s inspector general for Mumbai Zone 2, said.  Money Matters Financial  tumbled 20 percent to 533.80 rupees
today, its lowest close since July 9.  “In the immediate short-term, we would see a good amount
of de-rating across the stocks of companies named in the
probe,” said  Paras Adenwala , principal portfolio manager of
Capital Portfolio Advisors, which counsels non-resident Indians
on their investments in the country. “It does not seem to be
limited to one company or one sector. There are going to be
issues on corporate governance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  