-- Indian Telecom Takeovers May Slow Down on Uncertain Licenses
-- B y   S u b r a m a n i a m   S h a r m a   a n d   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2010-11-24T23:22:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/india-s-telecom-takeovers-may-stall-as-government-mulls-revoking-licenses.html
India’s telecommunications industry,
the nation’s second-busiest takeover market this year, may have
fewer deals until the government decides whether to revoke phone
licenses challenged in an official audit.  The telecommunications ministry said last week it will
review whether to cancel some of the permits after the
 Comptroller and Auditor General of India  said the 2008 auction
of the so-called second-generation phone licenses lacked
transparency and was arbitrary.  Concern about what action the government may take will
discourage deals in the short term, according to  Prahlad Shantigram , Standard Chartered Plc’s global head for mergers and
acquisitions. So far this year, there have been 27 transactions
in India’s telecommunications industry worth $7.83 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Nobody would like to acquire in an uncertain
environment,” said K.K. Mital, a fund manager at New Delhi-
based Globe Capital Market Ltd. “There would be some
consolidation only after there is some clarity,” said Mital,
who owns shares in a service provider that he declined to name.  Last year, the telecommunications industry was the most
active for mergers and acquisitions in India with 33 deals
valued at $10.45 billion, as  Vodafone Group Plc ,  NTT DoCoMo Inc. 
and  Telenor ASA  made purchases. In 2008, there were 28 deals
worth $4.3 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Wait and Watch’  The Indian government sold 122 licenses for second-
generation wireless spectrum for a combined 123.9 billion rupees
in January 2008. The prices paid by companies were
“unbelievably low,” according to the auditor’s report.  In contrast, the government raised 677.2 billion rupees
selling airwaves that provide third-generation phone services.
The federal government missed out on 1.4 trillion rupees
($31 billion) in potential revenue from the 2G auctions,
according to the auditor.  “Deals in the domestic wireless sector are likely to slow
down in the short term,” said Standard Chartered’s Shantigram,
whose bank advised Aircel Ltd. on sale of its phone towers
business to GTL Infrastructure Ltd. this year. “Investors are
following the ‘wait and watch’ approach for now given the
regulatory overhang.”  Raja Resigns  Former telecommunications minister Andimuthu Raja resigned
Nov. 14, two days before the auditor submitted its report to
parliament. Raja has denied any wrongdoing. Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh  has said the government will punish anyone who
broke laws.  The Central Bureau of Investigation will complete its probe
into the award of airwave licenses by March 31, its legal
counsel K.K. Venugopal told the Supreme Court on Nov. 22.  Potential investors may also weigh valuations of companies
in India. The benchmark Bombay Stock Exchange’s  Sensitive Index ,
Sensex, is valued at 15 times analysts’ profit estimates for the
next year, compared with a multiple of about 12.2 for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 stock index and 9.8 for the FTSE 100 Index.  India, where call rates are as low as about one penny a
minute, may have more than 993 million users by 2014, according
to Stamford, Connecticut-based research firm Gartner Inc. The
country has 15 operators.  ‘Next Wave’  “The next wave of mergers and acquisition deals in the
wireless sector will be driven largely by the need to
consolidate,” said  Frank Hancock , managing director, corporate
finance at Barclays Capital in India. “There are certainly a
few interested strategic investors globally. Nevertheless, the
challenge will be to bridge the gap between the value
expectations of sellers and buyers.”  Emirates Telecommunications Corp., the United Arab
Emirates’ biggest phone company, is in talks for acquisitions in
India, Chairman  Mohammed Omran  said in September. Investing in
 Idea Cellular Ltd.,  the company owned by billionaire  Kumar Mangalam Birla , is an “option,” according to Etisalat.  Videocon Group also said in September it wants to sell a
controlling stake in Videocon Telecommunications.  “There is a pall hanging over the industry,” said Mumbai-
based  Tarun Kataria , chief executive officer of Religare Capital
Markets Ltd., a local investment banking firm. “There needs to
be a regulatory change that will allow consolidation.”  To contact the reporters on the story:
 Subramaniam Sharma  in New Delhi at 
 ssharma@bloomberg.net ;
 George Smith Alexander  in Mumbai at  galexander11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey St.Onge 
 jstonge@bloomberg.net 
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  