-- Ireland to Cut Spending by 20% as Aid Talks Climax
-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e   a n d   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2010-11-24T19:18:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/ireland-plans-to-reduce-spending-20-raise-taxes-as-rescue-talks-climax.html
Ireland’s government said it will
cut spending by about 20 percent and raise taxes over the next
four years as talks on a bailout of the country near conclusion.  Welfare cuts of 2.8 billion euros ($3.8 billion) and income
tax increases of 1.9 billion euros are among the steps planned
to narrow the  budget deficit  to 3 percent of gross domestic
product by the end of 2014. The shortfall will be 12 percent of
GDP this year, or 32 percent including a banking rescue.  Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  is racing to conclude talks with
the European Union and the International Monetary Fund on an 85
billion-euro aid package as his governing coalition crumbles. EU
Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said
yesterday Ireland needs to pass next year’s budget “sooner
rather than later” as concerns mount the fiscal crisis may
spread to other euro nations such as Portugal.  “We have to deliver on this stuff and at least set out
some kind of road map that we intend to follow,” said  Alan McQuaid , chief economist at Bloxham Stockbrokers in Dublin. “It
won’t solve the euro zone problems” because “the market now is
sniffing blood and it’s looking for a big fight.”  Bonds Fall  Irish bonds fell today after the country’s credit rating
was downgraded yesterday two levels by Standard & Poor’s on
estimates the cost of bailing out its banks will escalate.  The decline pushed the yield on the country’s 10-year debt
up 52 basis points to 9.17 percent. The  premium  investors charge
to hold the debt over German bunds, Europe’s benchmark, widened
by 33 basis points to 619 basis points. The premium reached a
record 652 basis points on Nov. 11.  The premium on Spanish 10-year bonds over bunds climbed to
a euro-era record today. The dollar appreciated 0.3 percent to
$1.3331 per euro at 2:09 p.m. in New York.  Ireland’s reduced spending on welfare and higher personal
tax are part of an overall plan to generate an additional 15
billion euros in the budget by 2014. The government said today
it expects the  economy  to grow by an average 2.7 percent
annually over the next four years.  S&P analyst  Frank Gill  said today that Ireland’s rating
could be cut again if the economy suffers a setback, the EU-IMF
plan fails to stop outflows from banks, or if political
consensus on the budget plan weakens.  “There’s no question that economic projections for Ireland
are highly uncertain at this point.,” Gill said on a conference
call. “It will depend on what happens to external demand.”  Running Costs  While the biggest  opposition parties  have committed to the
plan to reduce the deficit by that year to 3 percent of GDP, the
threshold for euro members, they haven’t yet published details
on how they will achieve the target. Lawmakers are scheduled to
vote on the 2011 budget on Dec. 7 in parliament.  The government plans to reduce national running costs by 7
billion euros and investment will drop by 3 billion euros. Pay
for new entrants to the state workforce will be cut by 10
percent. The government also plans to whittle the minimum wage,
currently 8.65 euros an hour, by 1 euro.  It will raise sales tax for consumers to 23 percent in 2014
from 21 percent and reduce tax breaks for pension payments. A
property levy, called a site tax, will be introduced.  “Those who can pay the most will pay most, but no group
can be sheltered,” the government said in the report.
“Postponing these measures will lead to great burdens in the
future for those who can bear them.”  Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  will maintain Ireland’s 12.5
percent corporate tax rate, criticized by some European
governments such as Austria. Hewlett-Packard Co., the world’s
largest computer maker, said this week it may reconsider its
investment in Ireland should the country raise its company tax
rate as part of an aid accord.  The government wants to “put the economy on track to
balanced growth,” he said. “It’s a rational and sensible plan.
It will bring us out of this steep downturn.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dara Doyle  in Dublin at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  