-- Ireland Credit Rating Cut Two Levels to A by S&P as Bank Bailout Adds Debt
-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   A n s t e y
-- 2010-11-24T12:47:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/ireland-credit-rating-cut-two-levels-to-a-by-s-p-as-bank-bailout-adds-debt.html
Ireland’s debt rating was lowered
two steps by Standard & Poor’s and may be cut again as the
government prepares to unveil a four-year deficit-cutting plan
and contagion spread through the rest of the euro region.  “The Irish government looks set to borrow over and above
our previous projections to fund further bank capital injections
into Ireland’s troubled banking system,” S&P said in a
statement late yesterday. Putting the rating on review for
downgrade reflects the risk that talks on a European Union-led
rescue may fail to stanch capital flight, it said.  S&P cut Ireland’s long-term rating to A from AA- and the
short-term grade to A-1 from A-1+, the statement said. The
reduction leaves its long-term grade five steps above Greece,
which has the highest junk, or high-risk, grade. S&P said
Ireland is “on credit watch with negative implications,” an
assessment which carries a three-month timeline.  The downgrade risks worsening an investor exodus from Irish
bonds that has sparked turmoil through the euro region as
Ireland hammers out an aid package with the EU and the
International Monetary Fund to rescue its banking system. The
extra yield that investors demand to hold Spanish 10-year  bonds 
over German bunds yesterday rose to a euro-era record.  Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  said today in parliament in
Dublin that a bailout of 85 billion euros ($113 billion) has
been discussed, and that talks are continuing.  Bank Control  EU finance ministers cited a figure of about 85 billion
euros for Ireland on a conference call on Nov. 21, according to
two officials familiar with the talks. Of the total, 35 billion
euros would be earmarked for banks and 50 billion euros to help
finance the Irish government, the people said.  Irish welfare cuts of 800 million euros are among the steps
planned to narrow the deficit to 3 percent of gross domestic
product by the end of 2014, said a person familiar with the
matter who declined to be identified because the plan is not yet
public. The shortfall will be 12 percent of GDP this year, or 32
percent when the costs of a banking rescue are included.  Separately,  Bank of Ireland Plc  may end up in majority
state control as the government injects more capital into the
lender, two people familiar with the situation said yesterday.  Ireland’s government will seek to raise the core tier 1
capital levels of its banks to between 10.5 percent and 12
percent, the people said. Dublin-based broadcaster RTE earlier
reported the plan, without citing anyone.  ‘Day of Reckoning’  The euro slipped 0.2 percent to $1.3340, extending
yesterday’s 1.9 percent slide. The yield on Ireland’s 10-year
bond rose 34 basis points to 8.988 percent.  While opposition political parties back the aim of reducing
the deficit to the EU’s 3 percent limit by 2014, labor unions
are planning “mass mobilization” in protest at the planned
cuts, with a march in Dublin on Nov. 27.  “It appears that the day of reckoning has arrived,” said
 David Begg , head of the Dublin-based Irish Congress of Trade
Unions, the umbrella group for unions, which is organizing the
demonstration. “The Barbarians are at the gates.”  Cowen is racing to finish talks with the EU and the IMF as
support for his government crumbles. His Green Party junior
coalition partners said two days ago that they will quit the
government next month and independent lawmakers are threatening
to block the 2011 budget, the first step in the four-year plan.  Ratings Warning  “The government’s days are numbered,” said  Alan McQuaid ,
chief economist at Bloxham Stockbrokers in Dublin. “What we are
likely to see in the next fortnight is growing pressures on the
opposition parties to abstain on the major votes and pass the
budget for the sake of political stability.”  Moody’s Investors Service said two days ago a “multi-
notch” downgrade in Ireland’s credit rating was “most likely”
because the bailout would increase its debt burden. Moody’s has
an Aa2 long-term rating for the government, three steps higher
than S&P’s new grade. Fitch Ratings has an A+ grade, one above
S&P, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  An Irish finance ministry spokesman didn’t immediately
respond to a call and e-mail seeking comment on S&P’s decision.  “With domestic demand unlikely in our view to recover
until 2012, gross debt to GDP at end-2011 looks set to exceed
our previous projections of 120 percent,” S&P said today.
Ireland’s GDP has contracted for three consecutive years, and
Irish Central Bank Governor  Patrick Honohan  has declared his
country’s fiscal deterioration “worse than almost any other
country.”  Irish Risk  The risk premium on Ireland’s 10-year debt over German
bunds, Europe’s benchmark, widened to 606 basis points today
from 586 yesterday. The yield spread reached a record 652 basis
points on Nov. 11.  Irish banks forced the government to seek the bailout after
loan impairments surged following the collapse of the country’s
decade-long real estate boom in 2008. That year, the government
pledged to back most liabilities, including all deposits in
Irish banks, a promise that led the government to inject 33
billion euros to support the lenders.  As loan losses climbed, the government put the cost of the
rescue at 50 billion euros in September this year, fueling
investor doubts that Ireland could afford the rescue.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Anstey  at   canstey@bloomberg.net ;
 Dara Doyle  at   ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  