-- Ireland's Property Refinancing Shortfall Makes Market Vulnerable, DTZ Says
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2010-11-24T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/ireland-s-property-refinancing-shortfall-makes-market-vulnerable-dtz-says.html
Ireland is the world’s most
vulnerable commercial real-estate market because it faces the
biggest gap in funding relative to its size for refinancing
debt,  DTZ Holdings Plc  said.  The $6.5 billion shortfall for debt coming due through 2013
is equivalent to 16 percent of the value of Ireland’s commercial
real estate investment market, according to estimates released
today by the London-based broker. On a proportional basis, the
country is followed by Hungary, Spain, the U.K. and Japan.  Ireland this week became the second euro member after
Greece to seek a bailout from the European Union and
International Monetary Fund. Europe overall accounts for 51
percent of the projected $245 billion global debt-funding gap
through 2013, DTZ said. That reflects its dependence on short-
term bank lending and the number of loans in breach of their
terms or at risk of default because of the slide in real-estate
values since 2007.  The credit shortfall is “the biggest challenge to many
international property markets,” DTZ said in the report, adding
that a lack of debt financing at maturity will probably trigger
defaults.  Many Irish property loans are under water after what
London-based Investment Property Databank Ltd. estimates was a
 60 percent slump in the values  of shops, offices and warehouses
in the three years through September. Ireland’s economy more
than doubled in the decade ending in 2006. The bursting of the
real-estate bubble plunged the country into a recession and
brought its banks close to collapse.  Ireland’s  National Asset Management Agency  aims to have
acquired property loans with a face value of 73 billion euros
($98 billion) by the end of 2010 from the five Irish lenders it
was set up to assist, NAMA Chairman Frank Daly said Nov. 18.  ‘Bad Bank’  DTZ expects NAMA, a government agency created last year as
a so-called bad bank to buy lenders’ risky property loans at a
discount, to conduct “an orderly disposals process” starting
in 2011.  Governments, banks and borrowers in Europe so far have
found ways to address the deficit, with most banks choosing to
extend loans and change their terms rather than foreclose, said
 Hans Vrensen , the broker’s global head of research.  “Although banks and borrowers have not been forced to seek
more dramatic solutions to the debt-funding gap, a number of
imminent changes look set to increase the pressure,” including
higher interest rates, reduced government debt and cutbacks in
banks’ property-loan books, Vrensen said in the report.  Hungary has a debt-funding shortfall of $2 billion,
equivalent to 10 percent of its commercial property investment
market, the DTZ report showed. The U.K.’s $54 billion and
Spain’s $33 billion gap are equivalent to 6 percent of their
investment markets.  Japan has the largest shortfall in value terms, at $70
billion, DTZ estimates. The U.S.’s $49 billion amounts to 1
percent of its investment market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Packard  in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net  