-- Irish to Detail Deficit Plan as Government Wobbles During Race for Bailout
-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 2010-11-24T04:09:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/irish-to-detail-deficit-plan-as-government-wobbles-during-race-for-bailout.html
Ireland’s Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  will today lay out a four-year deficit-cutting program
that his party may not be around to deliver, as the government’s
majority evaporates and a bailout approaches.  Welfare cuts of 800 million euros ($1.1 billion) are among
the steps planned to narrow the deficit to 3 percent of gross
domestic product by the end of 2014, said a person familiar with
the matter who declined to be identified because the plan is not
yet public. The shortfall will be 12 percent of GDP this year,
or 32 percent when the costs of a banking rescue are included.  The program will be published as the government races to
finish talks on aid with the International Monetary Fund and the
European Union. Lenihan’s coalition partners in the Green Party
said two days ago that they will quit the government next month
and independent lawmakers are threatening to block the 2011
budget, the first step in the four-year plan.  “The government’s days are numbered,” said  Alan McQuaid ,
chief economist at Bloxham Stockbrokers in Dublin. “What we are
likely to see in the next fortnight is growing pressures on the
opposition parties to abstain on the major votes and pass the
budget for the sake of political stability.”  Election Call  The biggest opposition parties, Fine Gael and Labour, say
they want an election now because the government won’t survive
to deliver on the plan. Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  said Nov. 22
he will hold national elections in early 2011 after first trying
to win backing for the budget. Support for his Fianna Fail party,
which has governed Ireland since 1997, dropped to a record low
this month, a poll in the Sunday Business Post on Nov. 21 showed.  While the opposition backs the aim of reducing the deficit
to the EU’s 3 percent limit by 2014, labor unions are planning
“mass mobilization” in protest at the planned cuts, with a
march in Dublin on Nov. 27.  “It appears that the day of reckoning has arrived,” said
 David Begg , head of the Dublin-based Irish Congress of Trade
Unions, the umbrella group for unions, which is organizing the
demonstration. “The Barbarians are at the gates.”  Standard & Poor’s today lowered its long-term credit rating
for Ireland by two steps, to A, the sixth-highest grade, and
warned that another downgrade is possible should the 2011 budget
“fail to staunch wholesale funding outflows.”  Tax Rate  The government plans to cut the minimum wage, currently
8.65 euros an hour, by 12 percent, said the person familiar with
the package to be announced. Lenihan will maintain Ireland’s
12.5 percent corporate tax rate, criticized by some European
governments, as a pillar of national policy, said the person.  The plan may include 10 billion euros of spending cuts and
5 billion euros of tax increases, the Irish Times yesterday
cited  Alan Ahearne , an adviser to Lenihan, as saying.  The government relies on support from independent lawmakers
 Michael Lowry  and Jackie Healy-Rae, who said this week they may
withdraw their backing for the budget. Should Fianna Fail lose a
special election for the Irish parliamentary seat of Donegal
Southwest tomorrow, Lenihan may be forced to rely on opposition
votes to pass the budget.  The risk premium on Ireland’s 10-year debt over German
bunds, Europe’s benchmark, widened 45 basis points to 589 basis
points yesterday on concern that the budget may not pass and the
government will fall. The yield spread reached a record 652
basis points on Nov. 11.  European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner
 Olli Rehn  said yesterday it’s essential that Ireland passes the
2011 budget “sooner rather than later.”  “Let’s get it out of the way and move on,” he said in
remarks broadcast by Dublin-based RTE.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dara Doyle  in Dublin at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net . 