-- J&J McNeil Unit Recalls Some Tylenol Cold Products Over Labeling Mistake
-- B y   T o m   R a n d a l l   a n d   R o b   W a t e r s
-- 2010-11-24T21:10:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/j-j-mcneil-unit-recalls-some-tylenol-cold-products-over-labeling-mistake.html
Johnson & Johnson , the world’s
largest health-products company, recalled 9.3 million bottles of
Tylenol cold treatments because they don’t disclose the
medicine’s alcohol content on the front label.  The recall affects three types of Tylenol Multi-Symptom
liquid cold medicine sold in the U.S. by the McNeil Consumer
Healthcare unit, J&J spokeswoman  Bonnie Jacobs  said today in a
telephone interview. Flavoring agents that contain less than 1
percent alcohol are used in the formulations, and the alcohol
content was listed on the package rather than the front of the
bottle, according to a  statement  on J&J’s website.  “This is a wholesale and retail level recall and is not
being undertaken on the basis of adverse events,” J&J said on
the website. “No action is required by consumers or health-care
providers and consumers can continue to use the product.”  In April, more than 40 types of J&J’s children’s over-the-
counter liquid medicines were recalled, forcing a suspension of
production at a plant and reducing 2010 sales about $600
million, the New Brunswick, New Jersey-based company said in
July. The U.S. House Oversight and Government Reform Committee
has been investigating J&J’s handling of the April recall and a
separate incident involving Motrin tablets.  The products recalled in today’s announcement are Tylenol
Daytime 8 oz. Citrus Burst, Tylenol Severe 8 oz. Cool Burst and
Tylenol Nighttime 8 oz. Cool Burst. The products are being
pulled from warehouses and retail locations, Jacobs said.  McNeil also withdrew about 4 million packages of Children’s
Benadryl allergy tablets, Jacobs said on Nov. 22, citing
manufacturing lapses.  J&J rose 42 cents, less than a percent, to $63.29 at 4 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Randall  in New York at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net 
 Rob Waters  in San Francisco at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 