-- Japan Export Growth Slows More Than Forecast as Economy Loses Trade Boost
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e   a n d   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2010-11-25T03:59:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/japan-export-growth-slows-more-than-forecast-as-economy-loses-trade-boost.html
Japan’s export growth slowed more
than forecast in October, weakening the boost from trade that
has led the nation’s recovery from its deepest postwar recession.  Overseas shipments  increased 7.8 percent from a year
earlier, the Finance Ministry said in Tokyo today. The median
estimate of 21 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a
10.7 percent gain.  The report adds to concern that Japan is losing its main
growth engine after trade last quarter failed to contribute to
the expansion for the first time since the global financial
crisis. The yen’s advance against the dollar this year has
imperiled the earnings of exporters and manufacturers from
 Nissan Motor Co.  to  Panasonic Corp.   “The quarter’s off to a bad start,” said  Noriaki Matsuoka ,
an economist at Daiwa Asset Management Co. in Tokyo. “Exports
could decline this quarter and that’ll be a double hit for the
economy” given consumer demand is also going to slump, he said.  The yen traded at 83.49 against the dollar at 12:46 a.m. in
Tokyo, little changed from before the report was released. The
currency has gained more than 11 percent this year, threatening
the value of companies’ overseas earnings.  Gross domestic product  rose at an annual 3.9 percent pace
in the third quarter as consumer spending increased ahead of the
expiration of a subsidy program for fuel-efficient cars.
Industrial production has fallen for four months as automakers
scale back output after orders increased earlier this year as
stimulus measures boosted demand.  Weak Production  “Exports will probably expand at a modest pace, and we can
expect production to be weak for some time” because of the
stronger yen and slower global growth, Bank of Japan board
member  Seiji Nakamura  said in a speech today in Fukushima,
northern Japan. “The recovery in automobile output will be key
and I see that happening in early fiscal 2011,” he said.  Imports climbed 8.7 percent in October from a year earlier
and the trade surplus widened to 821.9 billion yen, today’s
report showed. Seasonally adjusted, exports were unchanged and
imports rose 0.7 percent from September.  The value of exports to China, Japan’s biggest market,
advanced 17.5 percent in October from a year earlier, compared
with a 10.2 percent increase in September. Shipments to the U.S.
gained 4.7 percent, compared with 10.4 percent in September.
Sales to Europe fell 1.9 percent, the first decline since
November 2009.  Falling Prices  Panasonic said last month that falling prices, the stronger
yen and more expensive raw materials prevented the company from
raising its full-year profit forecast, even as earnings exceeded
its projections for the first half.  “The strong yen will be a major hurdle in the TV business
in the second half,”  Hideaki Kawai , the executive officer in
charge of finance and accounting at Panasonic, said Oct. 29.
“It’s an extremely severe situation.”  The yen’s climb also gives the nation’s companies an
incentive to shift production overseas. Nissan Motor expects to
build as many as 1.6 million cars and trucks at U.S. and Mexican
plants by late 2012 to limit pressure from a rising yen,
Executive Vice President  Carlos Tavares  said this month.  Japan’s effort to stem its currency’s advance by
intervening in foreign-exchange markets on Sept. 15 failed to
stop the yen’s gains. Japan’s currency climbed to 80.22 per
dollar on Nov. 1, the highest level since April 1995.  Evidence of a slowing expansion puts more pressure on Prime
Minister  Naoto Kan  to implement his stimulus plans and on Bank
of Japan Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  to come up with fresh ways
to support the economy.  Policy Action  “We’ll continue to carefully examine the outlook for
economic activity and prices, and take policy actions in an
appropriate manner if needed,” BOJ board member Nakamura said.  Japan’s lower house of parliament on Nov. 16 approved
legislation to fund a 5.1 trillion yen ($60 billion) stimulus to
protect companies from the strong yen. The bill becomes law
within 30 days even if the opposition-controlled upper house
rejects it. To foster growth, the Bank of Japan last month cut
its benchmark interest rate and created an asset-purchase fund.  At the same time, there are signs that demand in China and
the U.S., Japan’s largest customers, is holding up. China’s
manufacturing expanded at the fastest pace in six months in
October, while the U.S. Institute for Supply Management’s
factory index rose to a five-month high last month.  “We are starting to see some degree of upside risk to our
fourth-quarter export forecast as modestly positive signs are
beginning to be seen in the global manufacturing cycle,” said
 Chiwoong Lee , senior economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in
Tokyo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keiko Ujikane  in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  