-- Japan Matches France in Michelin Three-Star Eateries
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s   a n d   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2010-11-24T10:54:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/japan-s-restaurants-catch-france-as-michelin-adds-four-three-star-venues.html
Michelin names four new three-star
restaurants in Tokyo today, taking the total for Japan to 26,
the same number as France, the home of the dining guide.  The Tokyo guide also includes the neighboring cities of
Yokohama and Kamakura for the first time. The area is home to 14
restaurants with three stars, 54 with two and 198 with one. Last
month, Michelin gave three stars to 12 venues in western Japan.  “Japan is a great country for gastronomy,”  Jean-Luc Naret , director of the Michelin guides, said in an interview in
Yokohama today. “Still, you have to put things in
perspective.” France has 200,000 restaurants, Naret said,
compared with more than 500,000 in Japan, according to Gourmet
Navigator Inc., one of Japan’s largest online directories of
restaurants.  The winners are Araki, a sushi restaurant that goes
straight to three stars; and Hamadaya, 7chome Kyoboshi and
Usukifugu Yamadaya, all promoted from two. Hamadaya serves
Japanese food, 7chome Kyoboshi specializes in tempura and
Usukifugu Yamadaya is known for fugu, a fish that is poisonous
in the wrong hands. L’Osier loses its three stars because the
French establishment is about to close for redevelopment.  Naret said that while Japan has considerably more
restaurants than France, it’s no surprise that so many stars are
given. Tokyo has 14 three-star establishments compared with 10
in Paris. A total of 16 venues joined the ranks of those with
two stars.  Good Restaurants  “There are a lot of good restaurants and a lot of bad
ones,” Naret said. “You don’t always eat well in Tokyo, but
there is a high proportion of very good restaurants.”  Lionel Beccat , who fell short of winning a third star today
for his French eatery Cuisine(s) Michel Troisgros, said
competition in Tokyo is tougher than back home in France. To get
three stars, “the most important thing is regularity,” he
said. “You have to be perfect 100 percent of the time.”  Michelin employs 7 inspectors in Japan, compared with 15 in
France. That is explained by the difference in number of
restaurants they actually visit: more than 8,000 addresses in
the guide’s home country, compared with 1,800 to produce the
first edition of the Tokyo and Kyoto/Osaka guides, Naret said.  Inspectors hear about new restaurants through word of mouth
and also through research at food markets, he said. “If you’re
looking at the best produce, you’re looking at the best chef,”
Naret said.  Yokohama, Kamakura  In Yokohama, two restaurants -- Chiso Kimura and
Masagosaryo -- are awarded two stars and another 14 gain a
single star. In Kamakura, 10 venues obtain a star. All the
inspectors come from the country, as with other Michelin guides.  Few ethnic restaurants were awarded stars outside of those
offering French, Japanese, Italian and Chinese cuisines. “We go
and try all the restaurants but we only select the best,” Naret
said. “In order to obtain a star, you need to be among the
2,800 best restaurants in the world.”  In a nod to the times, the guide has marked for the first
time restaurants offering a menu of less than 5,000 yen ($60)
for lunch and or dinner with a pictogram of two coins.  Five criteria are used for awarding stars: product quality,
preparation and flavors, the chef’s personality as revealed
through the cuisine, value for money and consistency over time
and across the menu, Michelin said. The criteria are adapted to
each type of cuisine, including Japanese cooking styles.  Bonito Flakes  In Japan, the most important elements of food are dashi, a
broth made of kelp, dried bonito flakes and other ingredients;
incorporating seasonal elements in dishes; and the quality of
ingredients, said Keiko Mita, proprietress at Hamadaya, who
regained its third star lost last year.  “We also need to present food attractively,” Mita said.
“Japanese sensibility on beauty is definitely something
special.”  Three stars mean exceptional cuisine, worth a special
journey; two stars are for excellent cooking, worth a detour;
one star denotes a very good restaurant in its category.  Michelin & Cie . is the world’s  second-biggest tiremaker  
after Bridgestone Corp. It produced its first guide in August
1900, distributed free of charge (until 1920) and originally 
intended for chauffeurs. The guide contained practical 
information, including street maps and tips on using and 
repairing tires. The guides are expanding internationally 
under Naret and now cover 23 countries.  Michelin’s guide to France is scheduled for publication
early in March. Before that, Hong Kong & Macau is slated for
Dec. 2; the U.K. guide appears in January. The last volume to
appear, in mid-March, is “Main Cities of Europe.” That guide
covers Copenhagen, where interest centers on whether chef  Rene Redzepi ’s restaurant Noma will gain its third star.  Naret plans to step down at the end of this year.  “The Michelin Guide Tokyo, Yokohama, Kamakura 2011” goes
on sale in Japan on Nov. 27 and in France (for the English
version) at the beginning of February 2011.  ( Richard Vines  is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writers on the story:
 Richard Vines  in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or Richardvines on
 http://twitter.com/home ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 