-- Jennifer Grey Clinches ABC's `Dancing With the Stars' Trophy, Bests Palin
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   N a n c y   M o r a n
-- 2010-11-24T17:57:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/jennifer-grey-clinches-abc-s-dancing-with-the-stars-trophy-bests-palin.html
Actress  Jennifer Grey  won the
championship of ABC’s “Dancing With the Stars” ballroom-dance
contest, clinching the Mirror Ball trophy over Disney Channel
star Kyle Massey and  Bristol Palin .  Known for her role in the 1987 film “Dirty Dancing,” Grey
beat Massey for the top prize on  Walt Disney Co. ’s network last
night based on judges’ scores and viewers’ votes.  Grey, 50, cast doubt about her ability to complete the
competition, after disclosing she had ruptured a disc in her
back while performing the previous night. The judges awarded her
118 points for her four dances during the two-night finale, out
of a possible 120. Massey received 110, while Palin earned 104.  “I didn’t think I was going to compete tonight,” Grey
said after her victory. “I’m glad I did.”  Palin, the 20-year-old daughter of former Alaska Governor
 Sarah Palin , placed third after being propelled to the finals of
the talent show by her fan base, including Tea Party voters.  Votes from fans, which carry equal weight with judges’
scores, kept Palin in the running. She showed steady
improvement, while scoring at or near the bottom as each week’s
elimination left stronger dancers in the running.  “Dancing With the Stars,” TV’s second most-watched show
this season after CBS Corp.’s “NCIS,” pairs celebrities with
professional dancers in weekly elimination rounds.  Last night’s finale averaged 24.1 million viewers over two
hours, according to Nielsen Co. data, and was the most-watched
show of the evening. The Nov. 22 program was the most-watched
entertainment telecast this season, ABC said in a statement.  Judges’ Scores  The program, in its 11th season, airs Monday and Tuesday
nights in the U.S. and consists of a performance night and a
results night. The voting allows weaker dancers with more fans
to advance.  Disney, based in Burbank, California, added 69 cents to
$36.81 at 12:53 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. The shares gained 12 percent this year before today.  Through the 10 rounds, Grey consistently placed at the top
of the judges’ leader board. She earned perfect scores of 30 for
each of her two dances on the first night this week, including a
freestyle number with partner Derek Hough to the song, “Do You
Love Me?” The song was featured in “Dirty Dancing,” in which
Grey starred opposite the late actor  Patrick Swayze .  “You’ve been consistent, you’ve been persistent, you’re an
irresistible force,” head judge Len Goodman told Grey.  Massey finished second among the judges that night,
earning a 27 for a foxtrot with partner Lacey Schwimmer and a 29
for a freestyle dance to the rap song “Tootsee Roll.”  ‘Gorilla’ to ‘Thriller’  Palin’s jive with partner Mark Ballas earned her 27 out of
30 points, compared with the 18 she received for the same dance
during week five.  “You were last time a gorilla and now a thriller,” said
Goodman. In her second dance, Palin notched a 25 with a
freestyle cage dance to “Cell Block Tango,” from the Broadway
musical “Chicago.”  Last night’s two dances included a repeat of each
finalist’s favorite dance from the season and a “instant” cha-
cha, which the pairs were told they’d be performing to Pink’s
“Raise Your Glass” minutes before hitting the floor. Grey’s
score totaled 58 on the two dances, to Massey’s 54 and Palin’s
52.  Bristol Palin first received public attention for her
teenage pregnancy during the 2008 presidential campaign, when
her mother was Republican  John McCain ’s running mate. She has
since advised teens to think twice before having sex.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andy Fixmer  in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net 
 Nancy Moran  in New York at 
 nmoran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  