-- Jets Are Season-High 9-Point Favorites Over Bengals After `Squeakers' Run
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-11-24T14:26:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/jets-are-season-high-9-point-favorites-over-bengals-after-squeakers-run.html
After the New York Jets’ latest
comeback win, coach  Rex Ryan  jokingly apologized for any heart
trouble the last-minute victory may have caused fans.  The Jets have earned a reputation as “Cardiac Kids,” with
their last five wins decided either in overtime or with less
than two minutes left in the fourth quarter. Their 8-2 record
marks the franchise’s best start since 1986, the year starting
quarterback  Mark Sanchez  was born.  Tomorrow’s game against Cincinnati may finally put an end
to those heart-stopping endings, at least according to Las Vegas
oddsmakers, who list the Jets as nine-point favorites at New
Meadowlands Stadium in East Rutherford, New Jersey. It’s the
first point spread of more than a touchdown this season for the
Jets, whose style has presented a challenge for oddsmakers in
setting betting lines on their games, said John Avello, director
of race and sports operations at the  Wynn Las Vegas .  “Nothing has been easy for the Jets this season,” Avello
said in a telephone interview. “They’ve been in some squeakers
the last couple of weeks.”  Against Houston on Nov. 21, the Jets were 6 1/2-point
favorites, matching their biggest spread of the season. They
blew a 23-7 fourth-quarter lead before pulling out a 30-27 win
on a touchdown catch by Santonio Holmes with 10 seconds left.  The Jets, who are tied with the New England Patriots and
Atlanta Falcons for the National Football League’s best record,
had overtime wins the previous weeks at the Detroit Lions and
Cleveland Browns.  Get In Trouble  Richard Gardner, manager of Antigua-based Internet sports
book  Bodog.com , said that while the Jets’ late-game heroics have
been exciting, it’s essential for oddsmakers to look beyond
those decisive closing minutes.  “When setting lines on any game we are aware of these
comebacks but look more at the matchup itself,” Gardner wrote
in an e-mail. “It could only get us into trouble if taking
something like that into account.”  Bodog.com lists the Jets as nine-point favorites against
the 2-8 Bengals for tomorrow’s game. It’s the last of the three
NFL games on the U.S. Thanksgiving holiday, when Detroit hosts
New England and the New Orleans Saints visit the Dallas Cowboys.  The Jets are 0-3 in Thanksgiving Day games since 1970, most
recently losing 34-3 to the Cowboys in 2007.  After going 3-5 in games decided by seven points or less
last season, the Jets are 4-1 in those situations this year.  ‘Wins and Losses’  “When it’s all said and done, we know how it’s added up at
the end of the year,” Ryan said during a news conference on
Nov. 22. “It’s based on wins and losses and nobody cares about
anything else.”  Former Indianapolis Colts coach  Tony Dungy , now an NFL
analyst for General Electric Co.’s NBC, said the Jets have had
good play and good luck this season.  “Mark Sanchez is making plays,” Dungy said in comments
distributed by the network. “He’s got them believing. They have
big play guys. Santonio Holmes has given them a big lift. The
last two weeks we’ve seen dropped interceptions by Cleveland and
bad coverage (by Houston). But they’re good enough to take
advantage of it.”  The last time the Jets had a better record at this point in
the season was 24 years ago, when they improved to 10-1 five
days after Sanchez was born.  Sanchez, in his second year in the NFL, said the most
important aspect of the team’s run of close games is that
they’ve been winning. The Jets have won six of their last seven
games, while the Bengals have dropped seven in a row.  “We’re proud of the way we’re finishing games,” Sanchez
said. “Now it’s a matter of cleaning up some of the mistakes
midway and three-quarters through the game. Hopefully, we’ll win
some of these things without the last-minute heroics.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  