-- Poker's New Ambassador to Expand Tournament Play After World Series Title
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2010-11-24T05:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/jonathan-duhamel-to-expand-tournament-play-as-poker-s-newest-ambassador.html
Jonathan Duhamel  is planning to
come out from behind his computer screen with more
regularity now that he’s the poker world’s newest
multimillionaire.  The French Canadian 23-year-old on Nov. 8 won the
 World Series of Poker ’s main event and with it an $8.9
million first prize and the champion’s gold bracelet.  After dedicating much of his time to online poker
since becoming serious about the game four years ago, his
plans now include traveling the globe to play the biggest
tournaments and “trying myself against the best players in
the world.”  “People say I have to be a poker ambassador, so I
take that role very seriously,” Duhamel said in an
interview in New York. “Since I started playing poker it’s
been a dream to be in that position. Now that I’m there,
I’m going to do everything I can to be the best with that
role.”  So far, Duhamel has lived up to his ambassadorial
mission, doing almost 300 media interviews in Canada and
the U.S. while surviving on just a few hours of sleep most
nights, he said.  A native of Boucherville, Quebec, who dropped out of a
finance program at the  University of Quebec in Montreal 
after a year to focus on poker and travel, Duhamel went
home to Canada before beginning a New York-area media tour
following his victory.  One Montreal television interview was followed by a
quick stop to visit friends at a local bar. Duhamel was
soon recognized by a female patron.  “After three minutes, she just asked me, ‘Eh, you
want to go to Vegas? You want to get married?’” he said.  Staying Single  Duhamel, who is single, declined. His new-found
celebrity is the result of smart poker and good luck, he
said.  Duhamel ran through 7,318 other players during the
main event, watching his stack of chips rise and fall
through what he called “quite aggressive” play. He
entered head-to-head action against poker professional John
Racener with 189 million chips compared with Racener’s 30
million, and took the title after about two hours of heads-
up play, holding an ace and a jack in his hand.  The payday immediately propelled him to 15th on the
career poker tournament money list, and it also was a boon
to Duhamel’s best friend, Pascal Turcotte, who is studying
to become a high school teacher and wanted to invest in
Duhamel’s main-event entry.  “He kept begging me for a week so finally I said,
“OK, give me a hundred bucks to get 1 percent,” Duhamel
said. “Now he’s $90,000 richer, so he’s quite happy.”  Duhamel’s team is trying to figure out the tax
implications.  Tax Questions  “He’s the first Canadian to win that much money by
gambling, so how is it going to be recognized in Canada to
bridge between the two tax deals?” said Duhamel’s agent,
Yves Bouchard. “We’re working on it.”  Other than a suit he bought for his North American
media tour, the only money Duhamel has spent was a $100,000
pledge to the children’s foundation of the Montreal
Canadiens, his favorite team.  Asked if he’d rather be a Canadien or a world champion
poker player, Duhamel was unsure.  “I’d be a star, but a third-line defenseman? I don’t
know,” he said with a laugh. “I’ve played hockey my whole
life, so that’s tough to figure.”  Duhamel’s first poker action since winning the main
event came two nights ago in an online tournament at
 PokerStars.com , with whom he has a sponsorship agreement.
He finished 16th out of 200 entrants, he said.  Gold Bracelet  “It was good to be back out there and see some
cards,” Duhamel said.  After two weeks as poker’s newest ambassador, Duhamel
said it’s been tough to stop thinking about his fortunes.
He has a diamond-studded gold bracelet to remind him.  “I had an hour to myself so I was watching TV,” he
said. “The bracelet was in front of me and I found myself
watching more of the bracelet than the TV.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mason Levinson  in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  