-- Kenya Likely to Keep Benchmark Interest Rate at Record Low, Survey Shows
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2010-11-24T07:22:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/kenyan-central-bank-likely-to-keep-key-rate-at-record-low-survey-shows.html
Kenya’s  central bank  will probably
leave its benchmark interest rate unchanged tomorrow for the
second consecutive meeting after commercial bank lending picked
up, a survey showed.  The central bank’s Monetary Policy Committee will keep the
key lending rate at a record low of 6 percent, according to all
four economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The Nairobi-based
Central Bank of Kenya will announce the decision in the
afternoon.  “With real GDP growth, and growth in domestic credit
picking up, against the background of exchange rate stability,
they may adopt a wait and see approach,”  David Cowan ,
Citigroup’s Africa economist in London, said in an e-mailed
response to questions on Nov. 22.  Six interest rate cuts since March last year helped bank
 loans and advances  rise 6 percent to 878.8 billion shillings
($11 billion) in the third quarter, central bank data showed.
The growth in lending is yet to impact on inflation, which has
stayed below the government’s 5 percent target for the last
eight months after ample rains improved food supplies.  “The central bank will want to hold to try and see where
things go,” said  Ben Nyamweya , a Nairobi-based independent
financial analyst. “Banks are fairly liquid, rates have been
coming down slowly, and I can’t see what they’d be seeking to
achieve with a further cut.”  The average  lending rate  among Kenya’s 43 commercial banks
declined to 13.98 percent in September from 14.18 percent a
month earlier.  Still, the central bank may choose to resume cutting the
benchmark interest rate, Governor Njugunga Ndung’u said Oct. 25.  Inflation slowed to 3.1 percent in October, compared with
3.2 percent a month earlier, the Nairobi-based Kenya National
Bureau of Statistics said on Nov. 1.  The Kenyan government expects the economy to expand 5
percent in 2010, the most in three years, and 6 percent the
next. By comparison, the International Monetary Fund expects
economic growth in Kenya to accelerate to 2.3 percent in 2010
and 4 percent in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at   smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 