-- Kenya's Energy Ministry Is Exploring Ways to Reduce Gasoline-Pump Prices
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   C o n s o l a t a h   L u c a s
-- 2010-11-24T13:44:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/kenya-s-energy-ministry-is-exploring-ways-to-reduce-gasoline-pump-prices.html
Kenya’s Energy Ministry is seeking
the legal opinion of the attorney general on the government’s
options to combat rising fuel prices in the East African nation,
Assistant Minister Magerer Langat said.  “We are asking if we can enforce prices to come down with
existing laws and regulations or whether we can draft new ones,”
Langat said in an interview today in Nairobi, the capital.  Gasoline prices have risen as much as 12 percent in the
past two months, according to  David Ohana , general manager of
 KenolKobil Ltd. , which operates 158 filling stations in Kenya.
Some fuel retailers are charging more than 100 shillings ($1.25)
a liter (0.26 gallons), said Langat.  Kenya’s Energy Regulatory Commission published a notice in
newspapers including the  Standard  on Nov. 22 stating that
recommended retail prices are 95 shillings per liter.  “We know the landing price and there is no reason why it
should go to 100 shillings and beyond,” Langat said. “This
ministry is going to take this more seriously. We want to appeal
to oil marketers to lower their prices.”  KenolKobil has begun reducing fuel prices at its gas
stations and is expected to lower the cost to between 98 and 99
shillings at all of its outlets from as much as 104 shillings
now, Ohana told reporters today in Nairobi.  Kenya Petroleum Refineries Ltd., the state-owned fuel
processor known as KPRL, said fuel marketers have claimed that
prices increased because of refining inefficiencies and higher
crude-processing fees.  Processing Fees  “We have not increased the processing fee even by a cent,”
 Raj Varma , chief executive officer of KPRL, said in a phone
interview today. All oil processed by the refinery is as ordered
by fuel-marketing companies, he said.  Demand for fuel has risen as much as 7 percent in Kenya
this year, Varma said.  Kenyan President  Mwai Kibaki  earlier this year refused to
sign a law capping the price of fuel, food and other essential
items, the  Daily Nation  newspaper reported on Sept. 2, citing a
memorandum sent to the office of the parliamentary speaker,
Kenneth Marende. The introduction of price controls would
contravene agreements signed with the World Trade Organization,
the newspaper said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ;
 Consolatah Lucas  in Mombasa via the Johannesburg bureau at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  