-- Kilts’s Centerview Said to Join KKR in Del Monte Bid
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2010-11-24T22:05:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/kilts-s-centerview-fund-said-to-join-kkr-in-bid-for-del-monte-shares-rise.html
KKR & Co.  is working with a
Centerview Partners private-equity fund run by  James Kilts , the
former Gillette Co. chief executive officer, in its bid to buy
 Del Monte Foods Co. , said two people with knowledge of the
matter.  Vestar Capital Partners, a buyout firm, is also joining KKR
in the bid for the pet-food company, said one of the people, who
spoke on condition of anonymity because the talks are private.
KKR and Del Monte are aiming to reach an agreement as soon as
today, though negotiations may stretch into the coming days, the
person said.  In joining with Kilts, KKR gains the expertise of a former
CEO who won praise from billionaire investor  Warren Buffett  for
his turnaround of Gillette, and who previously ran Nabisco
Holdings Corp. and Kraft when it was a unit of Philip Morris
Cos.  Centerview and Vestar would make significantly smaller
equity contributions than KKR in a buyout, the person said.
Kilts, 62, who helped found New York-based Centerview in 2006,
oversees a $500 million buyout fund, compared with the $55.5
billion that KKR manages across private-equity and other asset
classes. Del Monte has a market value of about $3.5 billion.  Last week, the Financial Times reported the parties were
discussing a price of about $18.50 a share, valuing the company
at $3.6 billion. Del Monte, based in San Francisco, rose 94
cents to $17.99 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
The shares have jumped 59 percent this year.  Strategic Decisions  Centerview said last week it bought Richelieu Foods Inc., a
closely held pizza maker, from Brynwood Partners.  Kilts helped start Centerview in 2006 along with investment
bankers  Blair Effron ,  Stephen Crawford  and  Robert Pruzan . While
Kilts oversees the private-equity unit, most of the firm’s
partners focus on advising large corporations on mergers and
other strategic decisions, such as Kraft Foods Inc. on its
hostile takeover of Cadbury Plc.  Centerview invested in Nielsen Co., the media research
company, after it had been taken private by a group of private-
equity firms including KKR in 2006 for about 7.6 billion euros
($9.5 billion). Kilts joined the Nielsen board and is now the
chairman.  Nielsen wasn’t the first deal that brought Kilts together
with  Henry Kravis , the co-founder of KKR along with  George Roberts . When Kilts became CEO of Gillette in 2001, KKR was one
of the company’s biggest shareholders, having acquired the stock
when Gillette bought Duracell from KKR. Kravis served on the
board until the following year, and Kilts sold the company to
Procter & Gamble Co. in 2005.  Kilts “earned every penny” he made turning around
Gillette, Buffett said in his 2006 letter to shareholders of
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. Kilts was in line to collect $153
million or more when Gillette was sold to Procter & Gamble, the
Wall Street Journal reported at the time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Zachary R. Mider  in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
 Cristina Alesci  in New York at 
 Calesci2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 