-- Kinder IPO to Awaken ‘Sleepy’ Pipelines for Goldman, Carlyle
-- B y   J o r d a n   B u r k e   a n d   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2010-11-24T05:42:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/kinder-morgan-sale-to-awaken-sleepy-ipo-pipelines-for-goldman-carlyle.html
Terrance McGill ’s heart raced one
morning in 1990 when  Richard Kinder , then his boss at  Enron
Corp ., rang his phone wanting to know why natural-gas
shipments on the company’s Texas-to-California pipeline had
plunged 76 percent.  McGill dug out the daily report sent to top managers and
realized a number had been transposed. He explained the typo,
and a satisfied Kinder hung up. McGill never forgot the
lesson.  “He knew every morning what every pipeline was doing,
what every power plant was generating, what every processing
plant was producing,” said McGill, now senior vice president
of natural-gas operations and engineering for  Enbridge Inc .’s
North American unit.  Kinder’s attention to detail may be his most valuable
asset as he prepares an initial public offering of  Kinder
Morgan Inc ., operator of the second-largest U.S. pipeline
network, said  Jim Murchie , founder of Energy Income Partners
LLC in Westport, Connecticut. Just three years ago Kinder
participated in a $22 billion leveraged buyout to take the
company private.  Now investors who backed that buyout, including  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc . and Carlyle Group, plan to raise as much as
$1.5 billion in the stock sale while Kinder, 66, holds on to
his 31 percent stake and is given the power to name five of
the company’s 13 directors.  After quitting Enron in 1996 when he didn’t get the
chief executive officer’s job, Kinder and a group of
investors bought what he called “sleepy, old pipelines”
from the Houston-based company that was shifting its focus to
higher-profit trading in gas and electricity. That $40
million investment blossomed into a $27.2 billion empire.  Divergent Paths  Kinder’s departure from Enron marked the beginning of
diverging paths for the two businesses. Enron, the product of
the 1985 merger of InterNorth Inc. and Houston Natural Gas
Corp., was on its rocket-ride up as one of America’s most
successful companies.  Enron’s transformation involved shifting its focus to
trading gas and power like stocks and currency, according to
regulatory filings. By 2000, pipelines accounted for just 15
percent of its pretax earnings, down from 46 percent in 1996.  Five years after Kinder left, Enron was in cinders,
consumed by accounting fraud investigations that sent CEO
 Jeff Skilling  and finance boss  Andrew Fastow  to prison,
obliterating the retirement nest eggs of thousands of
employees.  $1 Salary  As he built his own business, Kinder paid himself a $1
salary and eschewed corporate jets and big bonuses to
concentrate on hard assets that generate steady profits.
Fourteen years after he started his new venture,  Kinder
Morgan’s  annual return to investors averages 26 percent,
outpacing the 5.3 percent gains in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index.  Kinder’s personal wealth has grown to about $3.6 billion,
according to an estimate by Forbes Magazine this year.  Enron’s shareholders were wiped out almost nine years
ago when the company filed for bankruptcy protection.  In a quest to find deals and build projects that will
fuel growth for decades, Kinder announced $1.18 billion in
acquisitions this year, eclipsing his original $450 million
target. The largest was an $875 million agreement to buy a 50
percent stake in  Petrohawk Energy Corp .’s gas-gathering
network in the Haynesville Shale, a gas deposit that
straddles the Louisiana-Texas border.  Kinder’s deal making signals a shift to pipelines
serving the gas-drenched shale formations in the southern and
eastern U.S. after focusing in recent years on hauling gas
from the Rocky Mountains to the Midwest and Northeast. The
1,679-mile (2,702-kilometer) Rockies Express conduit between
Colorado and Ohio, co-owned with  Sempra Energy  and
 ConocoPhillips , began operating last year.  Pipeline Boom  “A lot of people like to count Rich out and say that he
has peaked; how much can he grow?” said  Kevin McCarthy , CEO
of the Kayne Anderson MLP closed-end funds, the second-
largest investor in  Kinder Morgan Management LLC , the limited
partner that manages the pipeline partnership. “He always
seems to pull a rabbit out of the hat and continue to grow.”  New drilling techniques that made formerly impenetrable
gas deposits accessible will spark a boom in pipeline
construction over the next two decades, according to the
Interstate Natural Gas Association of America. Pumping all of
the gas from new wells in places like Texas and Pennsylvania
to urban markets will require as much as $210 billion in new
pipes and gas-processing plants, the association said.  Counting Pennies  The 37,000 miles of pipeline and 180 storage terminals
operated by Kinder Morgan and its parent make it the largest
transporter of fuels such as gasoline and jet fuel outside of
the major oil companies and refiners.  To make money in these so-called midstream businesses,
the company charges a fee for pumping natural gas or motor
fuels through its system. Kinder Morgan’s Plantation pipeline,
which it owns with  Exxon Mobil Corp ., collects about 3 cents
on every gallon of gasoline shipped on its network from
Louisiana to Washington D.C.  “These are assets where you pick up pennies at the
margin,” said Haag Sherman, co-founder of money manager
Salient Partners LP and a Kinder Morgan investor. “Kinder
really understands the intricacies of the pipeline system and
where value can be reaped.”  Kinder also understands the value of meticulous note-
taking. The University of Missouri-trained lawyer carries a
yellow legal pad into every meeting to jot down projections,
estimates and ratios. His recall of seemingly mundane points
months later can intimidate some, said Enbridge’s McGill.  Taking Notes  In presentations at Enron, McGill resorted to having co-
workers take notes any time they saw Kinder writing something
down. That way McGill would know what interested Kinder and
where he might follow up.  “I don’t have any sympathy for CEOs that say, ‘Well I’m
just a big picture guy; I don’t know what is going on,’”
Kinder said in an April interview in his 10th floor office in
downtown Houston.  Kinder Morgan Inc. operates the second-biggest U.S.
pipeline network by volume through its control of Kinder
Morgan Energy Partners LP, a master limited partnership, or
MLP.  Part of the partnership’s secret to success lies in the
MLP structure that shields cash from the taxes imposed on
corporations. MLP’s distribute cash to unitholders, who are
taxed, leaving the parent with lower costs of capital and
more money to fund expansion, said  Jerry Swank , founder of
Dallas-based Swank Group LLC, which manages about $865
million.  The Modern MLP  “Rich is the guy who made the image of the modern
MLP,” Swank said. “He went out and proved you could make
accretive acquisitions in this midstream space that added
value to the shareholders substantially.”  In 2009, Kinder Morgan Energy Partners had $1.2 billion
in cash available to distribute to its unitholders. This year
the partnership plans to raise its distributions, or cash
payments, to investors by 4.8 percent, placing it in the
middle of the 30 competitors listed on the  Cushing 30 MLP
index .  Kinder’s focus on the nuts-and-bolts of daily operations,
and aversion to risk-taking, are what make the company a
desirable investment, said  Fayez Sarofim , president of
Houston-based Fayez Sarofim & Co., the second-largest holder
of Kinder units. Kinder said he buys just one in every three
or four of the assets on which he bids.  “In this fragile world you should” play it safe, said
Sarofim, 81, who has $20 billion under management. “One wish
is to make money. The other is not to lose it.”  ‘Risk Averse’  Bill Morgan , who founded the company with Kinder and
retired in 2003, said their cautious approach was informed by
their stakes in the enterprise, which meant they stood to
lose personally from any missteps.  “Early on, people said we needed to be more like
Enron,” Morgan said. “Companies that were driven by
earnings looked at things one way. We were driven by cash.”  “I guess that is risk averse in some people’s mind,”
Kinder said. “But to us, it’s the only way to run a
railroad.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jordan Burke  in New York at 
 jburke29@bloomberg.net ;
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 