-- Natural Gas Declines in New York on Forecasts of Above-Normal Temperatures
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 2010-11-24T14:59:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/natural-gas-declines-in-new-york-on-forecasts-of-above-normal-temperatures.html
Natural gas futures fell in New York
on forecasts for above-normal temperatures that may reduce
demand for the heating fuel.  Warmer-than-normal weather is likely in New England and
parts of New York from Nov. 29 through Dec. 8, according to MDA
Federal Inc.’s EarthSat Energy Weather in Rockville, Maryland.
Temperatures may be normal in the Great Lakes region, Southeast
and parts of the central U.S. during that period, MDA said.  “The slightly moderating weather forecasts have taken a
little bit of the buying out of the market,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker with Tradition Energy in
Stamford, Connecticut.  Natural gas for December delivery fell 6.6 cents, or 1.6
percent, to $4.198 per million British thermal units at 9:39
a.m. on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Gas futures have
dropped 25 percent this year.  “Prices could drift lower toward $4,” McGillian said.  The December contract expires today. The more actively
traded January contract was down 5.8 cents, or 1.3 percent, to
trade at $4.357 per million Btu.  The high temperature in New York on Nov. 30 may be 56
degrees Fahrenheit (13 Celsius), 8 degrees above normal,
according to  AccuWeather Inc.  in State College, Pennsylvania.  U.S. heating demand may be 7 percent below normal levels
from Nov. 30 through Dec. 4, according to  David Salmon , a
meteorologist with Weather Derivatives in Belton, Missouri.  About 52 percent of U.S. households use natural gas for
heating, according to the Energy Department.  A department  report  scheduled for release at noon in
Washington may show a withdrawal from U.S. natural gas
inventories of 1 billion cubic feet for the week ended Nov. 19,
according to the median of 24 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. The five-year average change for the week is a drop
of 13 billion cubic feet, department data show.  The weekly inventory report is set for release a day
earlier than usual because of the Thanksgiving holiday.  Gas inventories gained 3 billion cubic feet in the week
ended Nov. 12 to a record 3.843 trillion cubic feet, according
to the Energy Department. A surplus to the five-year average
narrowed to 9.3 percent from 9.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Buurma  in New York at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  