-- New Zealand's West Coast Reveals Coal-Fueled Spirit After 29 Die in Mine
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s   a n d   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 2010-11-24T20:05:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/new-zealand-a-nation-in-mourning-as-mining-tragedy-claims-29.html
New Zealand is mourning 29 men
presumed dead in the nation’s worst mining tragedy in almost a
century after a second blast at a South Island coal mine
yesterday ended hope the trapped miners would be rescued.  There had been no contact with the men since the initial
Nov. 19 blast at the Pike River Coal Ltd. mine, about 50
kilometers (30 miles) north of Greymouth. The second, more
severe blast in the shaft at around 2.40 p.m. local time
yesterday led New Zealand police to say the men are unlikely to
have survived.  For five days, families and friends kept a vigil for the
trapped men, ranging from a 17-year-old on his first day in the
mine to a 62-year-old near retirement. Their plight had prompted
hope of a recovery effort akin to the October rescue of 33
miners in Chile, brought to the surface after being trapped in a
shaft below the Atacama desert for 70 days.  “We are a nation in mourning,” Prime Minister  John Key 
told a news conference in Wellington yesterday. “This is a
national tragedy. To lose this many brothers at once strikes an
agonizing blow.”  The government is likely to confirm the details of an
inquiry at its next meeting on Monday, as well as other
inquiries that may “be deemed appropriate,” Key said. All
flags on government buildings are flying at half-mast today.  ‘Mining is Mourning’  “Once again mining is mourning,”  Laurence Golborne Riveros , Chile’s mining minister, wrote on social networking
site  Twitter  yesterday. “My condolences to the 29 families that
are suffering in New Zealand.”  New Zealand’s national rugby team, the All Blacks, are to
wear white arm bands in Cardiff on Saturday when playing Wales
as a show of respect to the miners, Juli Clausen, a spokeswoman
for the  New Zealand Rugby Union , said in an interview. The Union
will request a minute’s silence before the game, she said.  Britain’s Queen Elizabeth, her son Charles Prince of Wales,
and Italy’s Pope Benedict XVI have sent condolences to the
country, according to Television New Zealand.  The Pike River disaster is New Zealand’s biggest mining
accident since 43 men died in a Huntly mine on the North Island
in 1914. The worst tragedy was in 1896 when 65 workers lost
their lives in a coal dust explosion at the Brunner mine 5 miles
north of Greymouth. In 1967, a fire in the nearby Strongman mine
claimed 19 lives.  Past Tragedies  On the road to the Pike River mine, a 5-meter high statue
of a miner stares out over the Grey river, commemorating the men
that died at the Brunner mine and other pits in the district.  “This is the west coast’s darkest hour,” Tony Kokshoorn,
mayor of Greymouth, told reporters on Sky News yesterday. “It
doesn’t get any worse than this.”  Rescue attempts at Pike River were constantly hampered by
gases from the first blast and evidence of a fire underground.
The air quality was deemed unsafe for searchers to enter for
fear of a second explosion endangering them and the trapped men.  “I’m unlikely to see my workmates again. I’m unlikely to
see them walk out of that mine,”  Peter Whittall , chief
executive of Pike River Coal, told reporters yesterday. “The
families have a terrible, terrible thing to deal with. I don’t
know what we’ll do next.”  No Rescue  A 162-meter long bore hole from the surface took more than
twice as long to complete as first estimated because of hard
rock, while a robot that entered the mine stalled. Yesterday,
the bore did break through, giving rescuers the ability to
sample air quality. The robot was able to be restarted and
another was also deployed, officials said yesterday morning.  The samples were “off the limit,” Police Superintendent
Gary Knowles, in charge of the rescue operation, told reporters
yesterday morning, making it “not appropriate” to send rescue
teams underground. The decision not to send in rescue teams was
vindicated by the second explosion, Pike River’s Whittall said
yesterday.  In the center of Greymouth, a town steeped in mining
history, streets emptied soon after news of the second blast
broke, while television crews filmed under bright lights.  “It’s the finality of the second explosion that’s ripped
the guts out of the country,” said Key yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Greymouth at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  