-- New Zealand Police Say 29 Miners Are Presumed Dead After Second Explosion
-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e   a n d   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2010-11-24T07:23:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/new-zealand-police-say-29-miners-are-presumed-dead-after-second-explosion.html
New Zealand police said the 29
miners missing in a coal-mine blast five days ago are presumed
dead as a second explosion today ended hopes of a rescue,
marking the nation’s worst mining tragedy in 96 years.  The second blast occurred at the  Pike River Coal Ltd.  mine
at about 2.40 p.m. local time and lasted for about 30 seconds,
Chief Executive Officer  Peter Whittall , told reporters in the
South Island town of Greymouth. The miners’ families were told
it was unlikely there were any survivors from the explosion,
Gary Knowles, police superintendent, said in an interview.  “New Zealand is a nation in mourning,” Prime Minister
 John Key  said in a speech in parliament following the news.
“The 29 men whose names and faces we have all come to know,
will never walk amongst us again.”  The blast was larger than the first explosion on the
afternoon of Nov. 19, which cut off communication with the men
that had been working underground, said Whittall. No contact had
since been made with the men, who ranged in age from 17 to 62.
Rescuers deemed the mine too unsafe to enter because of the mix
of toxic gases inside the labyrinth of tunnels.  “I’m unlikely to see my workmates again. I’m unlikely to
see them walk out of that mine,” Whittall said, with his wife,
daughter and son alongside him, visibly shaken. “The families
have a terrible, terrible thing to deal with. I don’t know what
we’ll do next,” he said.  Whittall today wore a white, ribbon-shaped lapel badge
symbolizing an annual appeal for victim support, which he said
his daughter and friends were wearing to show support for the
workers, the rescuers and Greymouth, a town with a history of
mine disasters. Greymouth is located about 50 kilometers (30
miles) south of the mine.  ‘Darkest Hour’  “This is the west coast’s darkest hour,” Tony Kokshoorn,
mayor of Greymouth, told reporters on Sky News. “It doesn’t get
worse than this.”  Rescuers will continue to monitor gas levels, said Whittall.
He wouldn’t comment on the future of the Pike River mine. Key
had received no advice on the recovery of bodies from the mine,
saying it would be an “important part giving closure to the
families”. He will travel to Greymouth tomorrow.  The government is likely to confirm the details of an
inquiry at its next meeting on Monday, as well as other
inquiries that may “be deemed appropriate,” he said. All flags
on government buildings will fly at half-mast tomorrow.  “We know there is a thorough investigation going to go
through regardless,” Lawrie Drew, the father of Zen Drew, one
of the 29 miners, told Sky News. “I may be pre-empting things
but I’m a father and if I have lost my son, I will have anger.”  New Zealand’s last major mining accident in 1967 was also
near Greymouth, when 19 miners were killed in the Strongman mine.
An explosion killed 43 miners in the North Island town of Huntly
in 1914.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Greymouth at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .
 Chris Bourke  in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  