-- New Jersey Democrats Propose Business-Tax Overhaul, Job-Training Program
-- B y   D u n s t a n   M c N i c h o l
-- 2010-11-24T19:10:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/new-jersey-democrats-propose-business-tax-overhaul-job-training-program.html
New Jersey’s  Democratic-led
Legislature will spend the next six weeks assembling bills that
would cut the corporate tax, boost business-creation incentives
and start a job-training program for the unemployed.  Budget committees in the Assembly and Senate will begin
hearings on the legislation during the first week of December,
Senate President  Stephen Sweeney  said at a Statehouse press
conference today with Assembly Speaker  Sheila Oliver . The
Democrats said they plan to deliver bills to Republican Governor
 Chris Christie  by early January.  The measures would amount to a package of at least 30
bills. They include a so-called  “single-sales factor”  formula
for the corporate tax that would base a company’s levy on the
portion of sales made in New Jersey. It would replace the
current formula, which considers the value of a company’s local
property and payroll along with sales in calculating the tax.  “The government has made it very hard over the years for
businesses to be in New Jersey,” said Sweeney, an iron-workers
union official from Gloucester County. “We have to change
that.”  Tax Breaks  The package also includes tax credits for investments in
biotechnology companies, tax breaks for entrepreneurs and
enhancements to an incentive program for businesses that aims to
keep jobs in state. Another measure would set up a system to
help  jobless  residents work 24 hours a week in unpaid
professional internships while they draw unemployment benefits.  The attention to job creation is welcome as long as it
doesn’t impede the Legislature’s work on Christie’s proposals to
control local-government costs through measures such as changes
to how municipal-employee contracts are negotiated,  Michael Drewniak , the governor’s spokesman, said in an e-mail.  “A little multi-tasking by the Legislature at this late
stage would go a long way toward helping New Jersey taxpayers
and our state’s economy,” Drewniak said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dunstan McNichol  in Trenton at 
 dmcnichol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  