-- Yankees Decline to Offer Derek Jeter Arbitration; No Contract Talks Set
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-11-24T05:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/ny-yankees-decline-to-offer-derek-jeter-arbitration-no-contract-talks-set.html
The New York Yankees didn’t
offer arbitration to  Derek Jeter  before a midnight
deadline, and contract negotiations between the team and
its 36-year-old All-Star shortstop remain at an impasse.  Jeter has won five World Series titles in 16 years
with the Yankees and last season passed  Babe Ruth  as the
franchise leader in hits. Yankees General Manager  Brian Cashman  has said the team wants to keep Jeter and ESPN
reported the Yankees offered $45 million for three years.  If the Yankees had offered arbitration, Jeter would
have had the option of accepting a one-year salary
determined by an independent arbitrator or signing with
another Major League Baseball team as a free agent.  Jeter made $21 million in 2010, the final season of
his 10-year, $189 million contract. The Yankees’ captain
had a career-low .270 batting average last season, down
from .334 the previous year and his lifetime average of
.314. Jeter’s .340 on-base percentage in 2010 was the
lowest since he became a full-time player in 1996.  Cashman told  ESPN  yesterday that the Yankees made a
“fair and appropriate” contract offer that recognizes
Jeter’s contributions to the organization. An 11-time All-
Star, Jeter has been the face of the 27-time World Series
champions, the most successful team in North American
sports.  “We’ve encouraged him to test the market and see if
there’s something he would prefer other than this,”
Cashman  told ESPN . “If he can, fine. That’s the way it
works.”  ‘Baffled’ at Strategy  Cashman also said he was surprised by a comment from
Jeter’s agent,  Casey Close , who was quoted on Nov. 21 by
the New York Daily News as saying he’s “baffled” by the
Yankees’ negotiating strategy.  Cashman told Close two days ago that the Yankees
wouldn’t offer arbitration and said no other talks have
been scheduled, ESPN said. Close didn’t return a telephone
message left at his office regarding Jeter’s contract
situation.  Hal Steinbrenner , the Yankees’ managing general
partner, last week described Jeter’s contract situation as
“a business negotiation” and said he hoped a new deal
could be in place by the Christmas holiday.  “None of us want to make it personal because it’s not
personal,” Steinbrenner told reporters at baseball’s
general managers meetings in Orlando, Florida. “Both sides
have a lot of respect for each other. My family has a lot
of respect for Derek and I believe it’s a mutual thing.
It’s been a good history.”  Shortstops’ Contracts  Since 1990, the only 34-and-older shortstops to sign
contracts in excess of $5 million were  Marco Scutaro , who
received $12.5 million for two years from the Boston Red
Sox in 2009, and  Miguel Tejada , who got a one-year, $5
million deal with the Baltimore Orioles in 2010.  Florida All-Star shortstop  Hanley Ramirez , who turns
27 next month, will get $11 million from the Marlins in
2011. Philadelphia Phillies All-Star shortstop  Jimmy Rollins , who turns 32 on Nov. 27, is set to make $8.5
million next season in the final year of his contract.  Jeter was the  eighth-highest earning  American athlete
this year, according to SI.com, making $31 million from his
Yankees salary and endorsements that include  Ford Motor Co. 
and Procter & Gamble Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  