-- South Korea Defense Minister Kim Resigns After Attack
-- B y   J u n g m i n   H o n g
-- 2010-11-25T23:24:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/obama-call-likely-to-be-spurned-as-china-s-north-korean-support-holds-firm.html
South Korea may appoint a new
defense minister today after  Kim Tae Young  resigned in the wake
of North Korea firing artillery onto the South’s territory for
the first time in half a century this week.  Kim’s resignation was accepted by President  Lee Myung Bak 
yesterday and a replacement will probably be announced today,
according to a statement on the website of the presidential
office. Kim had offered to resign in May after the sinking of
the South Korean warship Cheonan in March, according to the
statement.  The decision was made “in an attempt to restore the
discipline of the military in the wake of the latest
development,” the statement said. South Korea’s Yonhap News
agency said that Lee was “bowing to public pressure” after the
minister was “accused of mishandling North Korea’s deadly
artillery attack.”  Tensions with North Korea have risen since the sinking of
the warship, which killed 46 sailors. The Nov. 23 shelling of
the Yeonpyeong island, which killed four and wounded 20, is the
first of its kind since the 1950-1953 Korean War and spurred
President  Barack Obama  to send an aircraft carrier to the Yellow
Sea as a show of support and strength.  South Korea will revise battle manuals and increase
military strength on its maritime border, the presidential
office said in a separate statement yesterday after an emergency
Cabinet meeting.  Military Alert  Plans to reduce the number of marines on Yeonpyeong and
four neighboring islands on the western side of the Korean
peninsula will be scrapped, according to the statement. The
nation has raised its military alert status to the second-
highest level.  The North Korean army’s Supreme Command, in a statement
issued through the official Korean Central News Agency, accused
South Korea of firing first in the Nov. 23 incident and warned
of “merciless military attacks” if its territory is violated.  China’s Foreign Ministry spokesman  Hong Lei  told reporters
in Beijing it was evident that North and South Korea disagreed
on which side started the clash. Premier  Wen Jiabao  has
reiterated calls for stability on the Korean peninsula, without
ascribing any blame to the North.  Obama , Lee and Japan’s Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  have urged
China to use its influence to temper North Korean acts of
aggression. China is the regime’s main economic and political
benefactor and the two countries fought together against United
Nations forces during the Korean War.  Prevent Escalation  “China thinks the most important and urgent goal right now
is to make sure there won’t be any escalation of the conflict,
rather than finding out who’s responsible,” said Yang Xiyu, a
researcher at the China Institute of International Studies in
Beijing, a group attached to China’s Foreign Ministry.  China’s refusal to blame North Korea mirrors its response
to the sinking of the Cheonan. While the U.S., Japan, Australia
and the U.K. all backed the findings of an international probe
that said a North Korean torpedo caused the incident, China said
it couldn’t reach a conclusion without seeing first-hand
evidence.  Wen said that restarting six-party talks on dismantling
North Korea’s nuclear weapons program is an essential step to
ensuring stability, according to Xinhua. Hong appealed to the
two Koreas to resume dialogue and use “a peaceful approach to
solve conflicts.”  Trade Growth  Trade  between China and North Korea climbed 22.3 percent in
the first seven months of this year to $1.65 billion, with
Chinese exports rising 29.6 percent, according to Chinese
customs statistics. North Korean leader  Kim Jong Il  made an
unprecedented two trips to China this year, meeting with
President  Hu Jintao  in May and August.  Obama told Lee in a phone conversation that he plans to
place a call to China to urge its cooperation on North Korean
issues, according to a statement from Lee’s office. White House
press secretary  Robert Gibbs  said in an e-mail this week that
Obama would make the call to Hu in the “next several days.”  Kan, in a separate phone conversation, told Lee that
“given China’s influence over North Korea, China should display
a stern attitude,” Lee’s office said. Kan also pledged to
convey this message to the Chinese government.  The U.S. should consider responding to North Korea’s call
for direct talks that could lead to North Korea agreeing to end
its nuclear programs, former president  Jimmy Carter  wrote
yesterday in an article in the Washington Post.  North Korean ‘Fear’  “The unfortunate alternative is for North Koreans to take
whatever actions they consider necessary to defend themselves
from what they claim to fear most: a military attack supported
by the United States, along with efforts to change the political
regime,” Carter wrote.  While China’s public stance toward North Korea may not
change, concern is growing in Beijing that an ally of six
decades is increasingly a diplomatic liability, said  Zhu Feng , a
professor of international relations at Peking University.  “This attack proves that North Korea is entirely a minus
to China’s foreign policy,” Zhu said. “I see growing
frustration and I see a new imperative to overhaul the policy.”  Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov , speaking on state
television yesterday in Moscow, condemned the North Korea
shelling while saying that South Korea had ignored a request to
cancel military exercises.  “This most recent incident was preceded by information
that North Korea had appealed to South Korea not to hold
military exercises, not to hold artillery practice,” Lavrov
said. “But the exercises were held.”  Lavrov added: “It’s one thing to fire on water, even if
the waters are disputed, and another thing entirely to hit land
targets, populated areas. People died, that’s the main thing.”  He said the United Nations Security Council will issue a
statement on the incident in the immediate future.  Russia, like China, shares a border with North Korea.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jungmin Hong  in Seoul at 
 jhong47@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  