-- Mobius Says Middle East Investments Rise `Dramatically' as Growth Picks Up
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2010-11-24T09:51:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/mobius-says-equities-will-drive-growth-of-islamic-fund-industry.html
Templeton Asset Management Ltd.’s
investments in the Middle East are rising “dramatically” as
the company sees prospects in frontier markets and economic
growth accelerates, executive chairman  Mark Mobius  said.  “We believe there is incredible opportunity” in frontier
markets, Mobius, who oversees about $34 billion, said at a
conference in Manama today. “Our investments in the Middle East
have been increasing dramatically because the amount of money
coming into frontier market funds is increasing very rapidly.”  Rising economic growth has prompted investors to pour
money into developing nations at a record pace. The benchmark
 MSCI Emerging Markets Index  has gained 10 percent so far this
year, extending last year’s 75 percent rally, the biggest since
data began in 1988. That compares with a 3.2 percent gain this
year for the  MSCI World Index  of developed world markets.  Mobius had predicted gains in emerging markets as early as
March 2009, when he told Bloomberg Television that developing-
nation equities are building the base for the next “bull-
market” rally. Emerging markets’ economies will expand 7.1
percent this year, after growing 2.5 percent in 2009, the
International Monetary Fund said last month.  “We are in a long-term bull market for emerging markets,”
Mobius said today. “Emerging markets are going to grow at three
times the rate of developed markets.”  A ‘Little Faster’  Inflows into emerging-market stock funds have surpassed $60
billion and exceeded $46 billion in bonds this year, both set
for their best year since 1995, according to data by Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based research firm EPFR Global.  MSCI Inc. classifies six of the Gulf’s seven bourses,
including those in the United Arab Emirates and Qatar, as
frontier markets, a designation that typically applies to
economies and financial markets that are less developed than
emerging markets. The  MSCI Frontier Markets Index  has risen 15
percent this year and the  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index  of Gulf stocks
advanced 9 percent.  These markets are “going to be a very important area for
us because these frontier markets are growing a little faster
than emerging markets generally,” Mobius said.  Mobius said he doesn’t expect a so-called double dip
recession, referring to concerns that the U.S. is headed back
into a recession.  “People always ask me if there’s going to be a double
dip,” he said. “My answer has always been ‘No. There will not
be a double dip.’”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dana El Baltaji  in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net ;
 Zahra Hankir  in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shanthy Nambiar at 
 snambiar1@bloomberg.net  