-- Oil Rises Most in Four Months as U.S. Jobless Data Buoys Economic Optimism
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2010-11-24T20:35:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/oil-fluctuates-as-dollar-strengthens-amid-bets-on-rising-u-s-consumption.html
Crude oil climbed the most in four
months after U.S. jobless claims fell to the lowest level since
2008, bolstering optimism the economic rebound will accelerate.  Oil rose 3.2 percent after the Labor Department said
applications for unemployment  benefits  declined by 34,000 to
407,000 in the week ended Nov. 20. Futures briefly pared gains
after the Energy Department reported an unexpected increase in
U.S. inventories last week.  “The flash of economic optimism is bringing oil higher,”
said  Phil Flynn , a Chicago-based analyst and trader with
investment adviser PFGBest. “People are spending money again,
which is a good sign, and jobless claims are at the lowest level
in a couple years. These signs of hope are fueling the outlook
for increased energy demand.”  Crude for January delivery increased $2.61 to $83.86 a
barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the highest
settlement since Nov. 15. It was the biggest gain since July 22.
Futures have dropped 5.4 percent since reaching $88.63 in
intraday trading on Nov. 11, the highest level in two years.  Brent crude oil for January settlement rose $2.59, or 3.1
percent, to end the session at $85.84 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Consumer spending advanced in October for a fifth month as
a rebound in incomes lifted the biggest part of the U.S. economy
at the start of the final quarter of 2010, Commerce Department
figures showed today. Incomes climbed 0.5 percent.  “Consumer spending is up and jobless claims are way down,
which is making people feel better about the economy,” said
 Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy & Economic Research
in Winchester, Massachusetts. “It’s some much-needed pre-
Christmas cheer for the markets.”  Equity Gains  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  advanced 1.4 percent to
1,196.73 at 3:34 p.m. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  increased
1.3 percent to 11,175.97.  Crude oil supplies climbed 1.03 million barrels to 358.6
million in the week ended Nov. 19, according to the Energy
Department report. A 2 million-barrel decrease was forecast,
according to the median of 16 analyst responses in a Bloomberg
News survey. Inventories plunged 10.6 million barrels in the two
weeks ended Nov. 12.  “The market just shrugged off the inventory numbers
today,” said  Chris Barber , a senior analyst at Energy Security
Analysis Inc. in Wakefield, Massachusetts. “The better-than-
expected employment numbers improve the economic outlook a bit.
Economic news is the focus right now.”  ‘Report Is Neutral’  Crude-oil inventories at Cushing, Oklahoma, the delivery
point for New York futures, rose 560,000 barrels to 33.6
million, the report showed.  “The report is neutral,” said  David Pursell , a managing
director at Tudor Pickering Holt & Co. LLC in Houston. “You’re
building crude, there’s builds at Cushing but you didn’t
completely reverse the big draw in crude the previous week. The
reason for the gains is a combination of economic news and less
fears about South Korea.”  The U.S. sent an aircraft carrier to take part in exercises
off the Korean Peninsula in a show of strength after North Korea
fired artillery onto South Korean soil for the first time in
half a century. President  Barack Obama  talked with South Korean
President  Lee Myung Bak  for 30 minutes by phone and dispatched
the USS  George Washington  from Japan today.  “Geopolitics is re-emerging in the market for the first
time this year,” said  Addison Armstrong , director of market
research at Tradition Energy, a Stamford, Connecticut-based
broker. “We’ve got the force majeure in Nigeria and the
possibility of increased tension in Asia. This may be a signal
for the bulls to reload.”  Nigerian Barrels  Nigeria’s Bonny Light crude for loading in December and
January will be affected by a force majeure declared by  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc  on Nov. 19 after a pipeline leak, a company
spokesman said.  Oil at $100 a barrel will trigger action from the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries only if it’s
accompanied by a supply shortage, the group’s secretary-general
said today. Consumers and producers are comfortable with prices
at about $78 a barrel,  Abdalla El-Badri  said in an interview in
London. OPEC doesn’t expect oil to reach $100 in 2010, he said.  The organization, accountable for 40 percent of global
supply, will next meet to review production quotas on Dec. 11 in
Quito, Ecuador. The meeting will be “smooth” as the group
needs to comply with existing limits set in 2008 rather than
devise a new agreement, he said.  Oil volume on the Nymex was 448,545 contracts as of 3:03
p.m. in electronic trading in New York. Volume totaled 568,522
contracts yesterday, 20 percent below the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.33 million contracts, the
lowest level since Sept. 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Shenk  in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 