-- Rafael Nadal Stays Undefeated in ATP Tennis Finals by Beating Djokovic
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2010-11-25T00:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/tomas-berdych-beats-andy-roddick-in-straight-sets-at-atp-tennis-finals.html
Top-seeded  Rafael Nadal  beat
Serbia’s  Novak Djokovic  to stay undefeated at tennis’s  ATP World
Tour Finals  and move closer to the semifinals.  In a rematch of the U.S. Open final, Nadal got past
Djokovic 7-5, 6-2 in front of a sellout crowd at the O2 arena in
east London.  The 24-year-old Spaniard has now won 16 of the 23 matches
the two have played. Djokovic, 23, was hampered by an eye
problem that stopped play midway through the first set.  “I’m very sorry for him,” Nadal told a news conference.
“He didn’t see the ball very well,” said the Majorcan, who had
asked his opponent about his eye when they shook hands at the
net.  It’s the second victory in Group A for Nadal, who failed to
win a set in his three group matches in London last year and has
yet to make the final at the year-end championships. Nadal, the
reigning Wimbledon and French Open champion, beat Djokovic in
New York to become the youngest man since tennis turned
professional in 1968 to win all four tennis majors. The
lefthander was beaten by four-time champion  Roger Federer  of
Switzerland in the semifinals in 2006 and 2007.  Djokovic said the eye problem hurt his performance.  “I really feel sick talking about it, to be honest,
because it’s just incredible that this happened to me,”
Djokovic told a news conference.  Irritation  “My right eye got irritated, and from 5-5 I could not
play,” said Djokovic, who has also struggled with allergies and
breathing problems this season. “I could not see a ball,
especially the return. It was just terrible. I don’t want to
find any excuses for my loss, but the fact of the matter is that
I just could not play.”  Earlier in Group A, sixth-seeded  Tomas Berdych  of the Czech
Republic defeated  Andy Roddick  7-5, 6-3. The American, who had
failed to convert two set points in the first set, was given a
code violation in the second set for breaking his racket.
Roddick had lost his first group match against Nadal despite
leading a set and a break.  The ATP Finals, won by Russia’s  Nikolay Davydenko  when the
event was first held in London twelve months ago, has a round-
robin format, with the season’s eight best players divided into
two groups. Each will face the three others in the group, with
the top two in each section moving into the knockout semifinals.
No one of the eight-man field has qualified for the last four
yet.  Moving on  Federer, the top seed in Group B, will qualify for the
semifinals if he beats French Open finalist  Robin Soderling  of
Sweden today. The Swiss has won both his previous group matches
in straight sets. Britain’s  Andy Murray  will join Federer in the
semifinals if he defeats Spain’s  David Ferrer  in the evening
session.  Nadal will also make the last four provided he wins a set
against Berdych in his final group match tomorrow.  “I don’t relax,” Nadal said, when asked if that knowledge
made it any easier to play the Czech.  “For me I go on court, I
try my best. My goal is try to win the match.”  Nadal and Djokovic had served inconsistently in the first
set, with each being broken early on. With play back on serve at
4-4, Djokovic left the court to change his contact lenses after
halting play to allow a trainer to examine his eyes. Nadal, who
had waited impatiently on the baseline during the break, broke
serve for a 6-5 lead as the Serb sent a groundstroke over the
baseline. After fending off three breakpoints on his own serve,
Nadal took the first set as Djokovic hit a forehand in the net.  After a doctor checked out Djokovic’ eyes during the break,
Nadal quickly raced to a 3-0 lead in the second set after he
twice broke the Serb’s serve. The Spaniard won the match as
Djokovic hit a forehand return into the net for his 31th
unforced error. Nadal had 15.  Djokovic will next play Roddick.  “He’s a huge server,” Djokovic said. “Is always tough to
play him. He played great against Nadal. It’s still open. The
group is still open.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  