-- Canada's Dollar Strengthens Most Since September as Risk Aversion Declines
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-11-24T22:12:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/loonie-rises-first-time-in-three-days-as-investor-risk-aversion-declines.html
Canada’s dollar rose the most since
September as investor risk aversion declined on optimism the
nation’s economic recovery will strengthen.  The currency was the best performer among the 16 most-
traded U.S. dollar counterparts. Investor concern yesterday that
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis was spreading had outweighed
government reports that showed inflation accelerated last month
and retail sales rose in September. Crude oil, Canada’s largest
export, rose 3.7 percent. Russia said it began adding the
Canadian dollar to its international reserves.  “The Canadian dollar is on a tear today,” said  Greg Anderson,  a currency strategist at Citigroup Inc. in New York.
“Their CPI data yesterday strongly suggests that the Bank of
Canada is going to have to pursue a tightening stance in the
first quarter of next year.”  The currency appreciated as much as 1.5 percent, the
biggest intraday move since Sept. 1, to C$1.0092 per U.S.
dollar. It traded at C$1.0099 at 5 p.m. in Toronto, compared
with C$1.0247 yesterday. One Canadian dollar buys 99.02 U.S.
cents.  “Canada isn’t a raging buy against the dollar at C$1.011
but the Canadian dollar should do well vis-a-vis the euro,”
said  Alan Ruskin,  global head of Group-of-10 foreign-exchange
strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in New York.  The so-called loonie gained 1.7 percent to C$1.3466 versus
the euro, the strongest level in two months. The euro has fallen
5.2 percent this month against the Canadian dollar as Ireland
became the second euro country to seek a rescue as the cost of
saving its banks threatened a rerun of the Greek debt crisis
that destabilized the currency.  Russian Purchases  “We have recently begun investing in assets denominated in
the Canadian dollar,”  Alexei Ulyukayev , first deputy chairman
of Russia’s central bank, said today in an interview in Moscow.
“So far the amounts are very small, but there’s perhaps
potential for increasing our holdings.”  In June, Ulyukayev said Russia was considering adding the
Australian and Canadian dollars after fluctuations in the
greenback and euro. Russia’s reserves were made up of 47 percent
U.S. dollars, 41 percent euros, 10 percent pounds and 2 percent
yen. Russia hasn’t bought any Australian dollars yet, he said.  Irish Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said today that the
country may receive a “large sum” to help push down its budget
deficit and stabilize the financial system.  Government Bonds  Canada’s annual inflation rate rose 2.4 percent in October,
faster than all 22 economists in a Bloomberg survey predicted, a
government report showed yesterday. Retail sales climbed 0.6
percent.  Canadian bonds fell, with the two-year  yield  rising eight
basis points, or 0.08 percentage point to 1.73 percent, the
highest level since July. The 10-year  note  yield also gained
eight basis points to 3.19 percent.  Benchmark interest rates in Canada are 1 percent, compared
with the near zero in the U.S. Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  increased the target rate three times since June, but
have been on  pause  since September citing a “weaker outlook”
in the U.S., destination of about two-thirds of Canada’s
exports.  The  difference  in yields between Canadian and U.S. two-year
notes widened to 1.20 percentage points, the most since January
2004, as investors increased bets that Canada’s key rate will
diverge from the U.S. rate.  Canadian 10-year  breakeven  rates, which measure the
difference in yield between inflation-linked and cash bonds and
gauges price expectations, jumped to 2.31 percent, the highest
level since May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  