-- Opus's Top Brazil Equity Manager Araujo Sells Stake to Start His Own Firm
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 2010-11-24T17:52:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/opus-s-top-brazil-equity-manager-araujo-sells-stake-to-start-his-own-firm.html
Bernardo Araujo  and  Eduardo Trigo ,
former partners at Opus Gestao de Recursos Ltda., left the $1
billion Rio de Janeiro asset management company to start their
own stock fund.  Araujo, who managed the  Opus Acoes FIA  fund for the past
four years, brought with him equity analyst Marcelo Moraes to
help run Marlin Investimentos, which they founded last month.  At least 31 asset management companies have opened this
year in Brazil pushing the total to 462, according to data from
research firm Economatica. There were 431 at the end of last
year and 371 in 2007. The Opus Acoes fund surged 211 percent
last year, making it the fifth best-performer of 3,881 Brazilian
funds tracked by Bloomberg.  “The fund has proven to be a success,” said Araujo, from
his new office in the Leblon neighborhood of Rio, less than a
mile away from Opus’s offices in Ipanema. “Our strategy
sometimes is more difficult to understand but, we make sure to
invest in companies that will give us the highest returns.”  Marlin Investimentos will likely continue to invest in the
same type of companies as Opus, said Araujo. The Opus stock
fund’s biggest holdings as of Sept. 30 were port company LLX
Logistica SA and oil developer  OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes
SA , both controlled by billionaire Eike Batista, and IdeiasNet
SA, a holding company that invests in technology and Internet
ventures.  “There’s a window of opportunity for investments in
Brazil,” said Trigo. “We’ve gathered a well-established team
in both the private and public equity market and I think we can
leverage with the opportunities that are coming.”  They plan to start the stock fund in about a month and also
want to invest in private equity, said Trigo, Marlin’s chief
operating officer.  Marco Kelson, who for five years coordinated real estate
investments for Rio-based AK Holdings, will run the new
company’s private equity and financial advisory arm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Ragir  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 Papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  