-- Orco Property Group Plans to Begin Winding Down Real-Estate Fund in 2011
-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 2010-11-24T11:06:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/orco-property-group-plans-to-begin-winding-down-real-estate-fund-in-2011.html
Orco Property Group SA , a developer
with most of its assets in Central and Eastern Europe, plans to
start winding down its 466 million-euro ($625 million) Endurance
real-estate fund next year amid disputes with investors.  “We’d rather wait a year or two when markets are in a
better recovery to maximize profits, but investors are demanding
to proceed,” executive board member  Ales Vobruba  said in an
interview in Orco’s offices in Prague. Investors could have
opted for postponing the fund’s dissolution for another two
years, Vobruba said.  Orco, which acts as a fund manager and also owns 14 percent
of the fund, will sell all properties and redeem investors
during 2012 and 2013. The proceeds from the sales of assets will
be distributed to investors, including Morgan Stanley’s Jardenne
Corporation S.a.r.l., Portfolio Acquisitions 2 Ltd, a unit of
Goldman Sachs, or Henderson Indirect Property Fund (Europe)
accordingly. The total gross value of the fund portfolio was
466.3 million euros as of Sept. 30, the executive said.  The volume of office and residential sales in central and
eastern Europe declined in the past two years as most countries
in the region fell into recession, Vobruba said. Investors found
it harder to raise money for larger purchases because of the
financial crisis and disagreements on prices that held up some
transactions.  Restructuring  Luxembourg-based Orco emerged from creditor protection in
May after a Paris-based court approved its plan to restructure
the company and repay claims from creditors over a 10-year
period.  The fund, which consists of three sub-funds focusing on
investments in retail, office and housing properties, has had
“cash flow” problems after the economic crisis reduced the
value of assets. Disputes between Orco and investors also
included payments of management fees worth 5 million euros in
last two years, Vobruba said.  First founded in 2005 as a closed-end fund with a lifetime
of seven years, Endurance administers a portfolio of assets in
the Czech Republic, Poland, and Hungary. It comprises three sub-
funds, Office I, Office II and Residential, that invest into
commercial and housing properties such as Orco’s office building
in Prague or Orco’s Tower in Warsaw.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lenka Ponikelska  in Prague 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  