-- Orders for U.S. Durable Goods Unexpectedly Decline
-- B y   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n   a n d   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2010-11-24T14:25:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/orders-for-u-s-durable-goods-unexpectedly-drop-in-sign-of-company-caution.html
Orders for U.S. goods meant to last
several years unexpectedly decreased in October, raising the
risk that companies will scale back on investments in new
equipment.  Demand for so-called  durable goods  dropped 3.3 percent, the
biggest plunge since January 2009, after a revised 5 percent
jump in September that was larger than previously estimated,
figures from the Commerce Department showed today in Washington.  A slowdown in capital spending would deprive the world’s
largest economy of a source of strength just as household
purchases are starting to accelerate. While overseas demand is
helping companies like  Rockwell Automation Inc. , there may be
less of a contribution to growth from inventory rebuilding in
coming months.  “Business investment is slowing, but the numbers we got
today might overstate the magnitude,” said  Brian Jones , an
economist at Societe Generale in New York, who said the first
month of the quarter typically shows weakness.  Other government reports today showed consumer spending
rose in October for a fifth month and applications for
unemployment benefits fell last week to the lowest level since
July 2008.  Household purchases advanced 0.4 percent after a 0.3
percent gain in September that was larger than previously
estimated, Commerce Department figures showed. Incomes climbed
0.5 percent and the Federal Reserve’s preferred measure of
inflation was little changed, capping the smallest 12-month gain
since records began five decades ago.  Jobless Claims  Jobless claims declined by 34,000 to 407,000 in the week
ended Nov. 20, according to Labor Department figures. The median
projection of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a
drop to 435,000. The total number of people receiving
unemployment insurance decreased to the lowest in two years, and
those on extended payments also fell.  Stock-index futures extended earlier gains after the
reports. The contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
maturing in December rose 0.7 percent to 1,186.70 at 9:20 a.m.
in New York. Treasury securities fell, sending the yield on the
benchmark 10-year note up to 2.83 percent from 2.78 percent late
yesterday.  Economists forecast total durable goods orders would
increase 0.1 percent, according to the median of 74 projections
in a Bloomberg News survey. Estimates ranged from a drop of 2.7
percent to an increase of 4.5 percent.  Excluding Transportation  Excluding transportation,  bookings  decreased 2.7 percent.
They were forecast to increase 0.6 percent, according to the
Bloomberg survey.  Orders for non-defense capital goods excluding aircraft,
considered a proxy for future business investment, fell 4.5
percent after a 1.9 percent gain in September. The government
had previously estimated such orders dropped 0.2 percent in
September.  The swings in orders for capital goods may reflect calendar
effects that the government isn’t able to capture with its
seasonal adjustments.  “I would expect the trend to be slowing a little bit in
the core numbers but I wouldn’t get too concerned if you see a
little bit of weakness in them,”  Michael Feroli , chief U.S.
economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York, said before the
report. “You have gotten very strong growth in the first of
this year and it may be hard to sustain that pace.”  Non-Defense Capital Goods  Shipments of non-defense capital goods excluding aircraft,
used in calculating gross domestic product, decreased 1.5
percent after a 1 percent gain in September.  The so-called core capital goods figures typically are
weaker at the start of the quarter, particularly for October,
said  Aaron Smith , a senior economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc.
in West Chester, Pennsylvania.  The world’s largest economy grew at a 2.5 percent annual
pace from July through September, the Commerce Department said
yesterday. Corporate profits increased 2.8 percent during the
third quarter and were up 28 percent from the same three months
last year.  Today’s report counters others suggesting factories are
supporting growth in the fourth quarter.  Federal Reserve  The Federal Reserve last week said factory output increased
in October by the most in three months. The 0.5 percent increase
in the manufacturing component of the industrial production
report was led by makers of autos, computers and communications
gear.  Foreign sales are a bright spot for factories and exports
in September rose to the highest level in two years, according
to Commerce Department data released Nov. 10. Some businesses
are responding to greater demand from the U.S. and abroad by
replacing aging equipment and bringing more parts of their
plants online.  Rockwell Automation, the maker of factory software, said it
sees interest rising in large-scale plant projects for full-
production lines in developed markets, a sign that those
economies may be picking up steam.  “These are projects that are significant expansion in
production capacity or new lines,” Chief Executive Officer
 Keith Nosbusch  said in an interview Nov. 9. “These would be
larger capital spending investments,” which means those markets
have a more positive outlook on their future.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net ;
 Bob Willis  in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  