-- Morgan Stanley's Fels Sees Spain as Probable Target If Portugal Is Rescued
-- B y   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n   a n d   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r
-- 2010-11-24T13:35:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/morgan-stanley-s-fels-sees-spain-as-target-if-portugal-rescued.html
Portugal will need a bailout and
investors will then focus on Spain as there’s “little to stop
the contagion” from Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis, said
 Joachim Fels , co-chief global economist at Morgan Stanley.  “I think investors have lost confidence in the ability of
Portugal to turn around its situation, so it looks like Portugal
will be forced into the EFSF,” Europe’s bailout fund, Fels said
today in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Inside Track”
with  Erik Schatzker . “I think the focus is now on Portugal and
then I think the markets will turn to Spain.”  Spanish Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  said today the
country won’t need a bailout as borrowing costs surged for
Europe’s so-called peripheral countries after Ireland’s request
for aid prompted speculation that other nations may need help.
The difference in yield, or spread, between Spanish 10-year
bonds and German bunds surged to a euro-era high of 249 basis
points today. Portugal’s spread was at 434 basis points.  Ireland this week became the first nation to tap the
European Financial Stability Facility, the euro region’s 750
billion-euro ($1 trillion) rescue fund set up in May after
Greece’s near-default. It asked for help after the cost of
saving its financial industry swelled the budget deficit to an
estimated 32 percent of gross domestic product this year, 10
times the European Union’s limit.  ‘Enough is Enough’  “There will come a point when governments will say ‘enough
is enough, and we will rather borrow from the  EFSF  at a sensible
rate,’ which is lower than the market rate,” Fels said.
“Portugal is already there. Portuguese three-year bonds trade
at a five and a half percent yield -- that’s higher than the
yield at which  Portugal  could borrow from the fund.”  Spanish yields would have to approach 6 percent to 7
percent “in the short end of the curve” for the country to be
close to needing aid, Fels said. “So we’re not there for
Spain,” he said.  Bonds in Ireland, Portugal and Greece have slumped since EU
leaders agreed on Oct. 29 to consider Germany’s proposal for a
permanent rescue mechanism as of 2013 that would involve debt
restructuring with losses for bondholders. German Chancellor
Angela Merkel wants buyers of new euro-region bonds to accept
liability clauses starting in 2011, two years before a revamped
crisis-management system kicks in, according to a Finance
Ministry document obtained by Bloomberg.  Merkel’s comments “have clearly made the crisis much
worse,” Fels said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Donovan at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  