-- Mortgage Rates for U.S. Loans Increase for Second Week, Freddie Mac Says
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2010-11-24T15:08:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/mortgage-rates-for-u-s-loans-increase-for-second-week-freddie-mac-says.html
U.S. mortgage rates rose for a
second week to remain at a three-month high, increasing
borrowing costs for homebuyers.  The rate for a 30-year fixed  loan  climbed to 4.40 percent
in the week ended today from 4.39 percent, Freddie Mac said in a
statement. That’s the highest since the week ended Aug. 19. The
average 15-year  rate  rose to 3.77 percent from 3.76 percent, the
McLean, Virginia-based mortgage-finance company said.  Rising mortgage rates threaten to further restrain
homebuyers as unemployment hovers near 10 percent. Rates have
climbed from record-low levels this month on investor concern
that a Federal Reserve plan to buy $600 billion of Treasuries
may fail to curb borrowing costs.  “If we’re talking about individual variables, the Fed’s
programs can certainly have market effects,”  Don Rissmiller ,
chief economist at Strategas Research Partners LLC in New York,
said in a telephone interview. “I wouldn’t get too excited
about a rise from a very low level, because rates are rising
from a level they weren’t supposed to get down to.”  Yields on mortgage securities guaranteed by government-
supported Fannie Mae, which most affect loan rates,  soared  from
as low as 3.27 percent on Nov. 4 to 3.8 percent on Nov. 15,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Yields were 3.79
percent as of 9 a.m. today in New York.  Mortgage-bond yields help determine what lenders must
charge consumers on home loans to avoid losses when selling the
debt, which in turn provides cash for new lending.  Record Low  The rate for a 30-year mortgage fell to 4.17 percent two
weeks ago, the lowest in Freddie Mac records dating to 1971.  The number of  mortgage applications  in the U.S. rose last
week as purchases increased by the most in two years, the
Mortgage Bankers Association said today.  The group’s index rose 2.1 percent in the week ended Nov.
19 after dropping 14 percent the prior week, the biggest decline
of the year. The gauge of purchases surged 14 percent, the most
since November 2008, while the refinancing measure fell 1
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Kucera  in New York at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel in New York at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  