-- Mortgages Poised to Draw Record Foreign Demand to Denmark: Credit Markets
-- B y   G e l u   S u l u g i u c   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2010-11-25T16:26:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/mortgages-poised-to-draw-record-foreign-demand-to-denmark-credit-markets.html
Denmark’s $97 billion mortgage-bond
auction is poised to attract record demand from international
investors as Europe’s sovereign debt crisis boosts appetite for
the top-rated securities.  Nykredit Bank A/S, the country’s biggest issuer of the
debt, Realkredit Danmark and more of the nation’s banks will
offer bonds tied to home loans with maturities of one to five
years in auctions starting today. Foreign funds will buy as much
as 20 percent of the debt, an all-time high and up from 15
percent last year, according to  Danske Bank A/S .  Denmark’s $490 billion mortgage-bond market, the third-
largest after the U.S. and Germany, proved resilient during the
global financial crisis, with prices rising 6.57 percent in
2008, 7.1 percent in 2009 and 5.4 percent this year, according
to the  Danske Bank Mortgage Bond-Market Index . The securities
provide an alternative to European government bonds roiled by a
spreading debt crisis that led to bailouts for Greece and
Ireland.  “There might be an incentive for foreign investors to have
a higher focus on the Danish market compared to last year
because of the turmoil in the European bond market,” said  John Madsen , the chief economist at Nykredit in Copenhagen. “The
Nordic market, and the Danish market especially, is in a more
stable situation.”  Danish banks typically hold three bond auctions each year.
In 2009 they accounted for about 25 percent of the country’s
mortgage bond market, according to  government data . The sale
over the next two weeks is the main auction of the year where
new securities are issued and rates on existing notes are reset.
Smaller auctions in March and September resulted in $18 billion
of issuance, according to Nykredit’s Madsen.  Yield Spread  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own company bonds instead of similar maturity
government debt was unchanged at 169 basis points, or 1.69
percentage points, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
Global Broad Market Corporate Index. Yields averaged 3.7
percent.  The cost of insuring euro-region government bonds from
default rose to records on concern the fiscal crisis is
spreading, while Caterpillar Inc. sold 1 billion yuan ($150
million) of debt in the second Hong Kong issue by a U.S. company
in the Chinese currency. Gift and accessory retailer Spencer
Spirit Holdings Inc. was among borrowers to postpone debt sales.  Sovereign Swaps  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of contracts on
15 governments rose 3 basis points to a record 184, according to
CMA. Spain increased 8 basis points to an all-time high based on
closing prices of 303 and Ireland jumped 11.5 basis points to
591, after earlier reaching a record.  China’s first yuan-denominated credit-default swaps started
trading on the interbank bond market as the nation broadens its
financial system, according to the National Association of
Financial Market Institutional Investors.  Four warrants contracts with a face value of 480 million
yuan changed hands yesterday, the bond market regulator said  in
a notice  published on its website.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
company or country fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Caterpillar Bonds  Caterpillar , the world’s biggest maker of construction
equipment, sold 2 percent notes due in December 2012 in Hong
Kong through its Caterpillar Financial Services Corp. unit,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. managed the sale for the Peoria, Illinois-based company,
said a person familiar with the offering who declined to be
identified because the marketing was private.  The transaction followed McDonald’s Corp.’s 200 million
yuan of three-year notes in September, the first sale in the
currency by a foreign company in the former British colony, the
data show.  Spencer Spirit, the gift and accessory retailer, pulled its
$150 million sale of senior-secured notes due in 2016, according
to a person familiar with the transaction who declined to be
identified because the marketing was private. At least six other
companies in the U.S., most with junk ratings, put off planned
debt sales this week as credit markets weakened amid heightened
concern about European sovereign debt levels.  Pulled Deals  In Asia, Hongkong Electric Holdings Ltd., rated A+, S&P’s
fifth-highest investment-grade, joined junk-rated Yuzhou
Properties Co. and Vietnam National Coal-Mineral Industries in
withdrawing offerings, people familiar with the transactions
said.  Junk bonds are high-risk, high-yield debt rated below Baa3
by Moody’s and less than BBB- by Standard & Poor’s.  Bonds from Fairfield, Connecticut-based General Electric
Co. were the most actively traded U.S. corporate securities by
dealers, with 47 trades of $1 million or more, according to
Trace, the bond-pricing service of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  The S&P/ LSTA US Leveraged Loan 100 Index  dropped 0.05 cents
to 91.8 cents on the dollar, the fourth consecutive daily
decline, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Prices  on the
index, which tracks the 100 largest dollar-denominated first-
lien leveraged loans, fell to the lowest since Nov. 3.  In emerging markets, relative yields fell 10 basis points
to 244 basis points, according to JPMorgan index data. It was
the biggest drop since Oct. 26.  Danish Mortgage Bonds  Denmark’s mortgage bonds haven’t suffered a default since
they were introduced after the great Copenhagen fire of 1795.
Mortgage lenders can’t take customer deposits, so they use
mortgage bonds to raise money as well as spread the risk of
their real-estate loans.  “The Danish mortgage-bond market is the only one that has
survived without any scratches through the financial crisis,”
said Jens Kristian Kimper, an analyst at  RealKredit Danmark , the
mortgage-bond unit of Danske Bank and Denmark’s second-biggest
provider of the bonds after Nykredit A/S. “Interest from
foreign investors is increasing.”  The prices investors pay at the auctions determine the
rates lenders can charge. The central bank’s benchmark lending
rate is 1.05 percent, compared with 1 percent for the European
Central Bank and a range of zero and 0.25 percent for the
Federal Reserve.  Danske Bank’s index of Danish mortgage bonds rose to
124.675 on Nov. 23, approaching the record-high of 125.642 on
Oct. 12 and up from 118.3 on Jan. 4. The nation’s mortgage bonds
climbed 23 percent since the beginning of 2007, the index shows.  ‘Great Liquidity’  “International investors can’t get anything similar in
euro-land,” said  Jens Peter Soerensen , chief analyst at Danske
Bank in Copenhagen. Danish mortgage bonds also “have great
liquidity,” he said.  The rally coincides with the nation’s government bonds,
which have returned 10.5 percent this year on average, second
only to the 14.8 percent gain for South Africa’s debt among 26
markets tracked by Bloomberg/European Federation of Financial
Analysts’ Societies Indexes.  Danish house prices rose 3.3 percent in the third quarter
compared with the same period a year earlier, the Copenhagen-
based Association of Danish Mortgage Banks said in a statement
on its website Oct. 26.  Denmark’s economy will expand 2 percent this year and 2.3
percent in 2011, compared with 1.7 percent and 1.5 percent
growth for the 16 nations that use the euro, the International
Monetary Fund said in its  World Economic Outlook  last month.
Since June, the nation’s currency, the krone, has appreciated
8.83 percent.  Top Ratings  If the mortgage debt “of well-known names such as Nykredit
offers some pick-up versus government bonds still rated AAA it
could be interesting for money-market funds,” according to  Maud Debreuil-Chevroton,  a Paris-based money manager at Axa
Investment Managers. “The Danish mortgage bonds may take
advantage of the flight-to-quality of major international
investors seeking to stay away from European peripheral risk.”  Last year’s record $115 billion mortgage-bond auction drew
yields at the lowest level since adjustable interest-rate loans
were started 13 years previously, lenders including  RealKredit
Danmark  said.  RealKredit Danmark , the nation’s second-biggest
mortgage lender, sold one-year notes at an average yield of 1.78
percent and three-year bonds at 2.81 percent, the lowest levels
since the securities were introduced. Five-year notes sold at an
average 3.34 percent, the least since 2006.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gelu Sulugiuc  at 
 gsulugiuc@bloomberg.net ;
 Esteban Duarte  in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net ;
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  