-- Toshiba, Vizio Are Said to Unveil Google TV Products in January
-- B y   I a n   K i n g ,   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2010-11-24T22:20:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/toshiba-vizio-are-said-planning-to-unveil-google-tv-products-in-january.html
Toshiba Corp.  and Vizio Inc. plan to
release products based on Google Inc.’s TV software, lending
support to the Internet search company’s efforts to bring the
Web to TV screens, people familiar with the matter said.  The two companies will unveil products at the annual
 Consumer Electronics Show  in Las Vegas in January, the people
said, declining to be identified because the companies haven’t
made their plans public.  Samsung Electronics Co.  is considering
making Google TV devices as well, the company said.  The support would give a boost to Google after the company
clashed with TV networks over allowing their online content on
the system. Google is counting on the product to parlay its
dominance in online search advertising into a foothold in
broadcast ads. Until now, the software has been used only in
televisions and Blu-ray players from Sony Corp. and in a set-top
box from Logitech International SA.  “We are very happy with the launch of  Google TV  with our
initial partners Sony, Logitech and Intel,” Google said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement, without naming any new
partners. “Our long-term goal is to collaborate with a broad
community of consumer electronics manufacturers to help drive the
next generation, TV-watching experience.”  Vizio was the leading maker of LCD television sets in the
U.S. in the third quarter, while Toshiba ranked sixth, according
to ISuppli Corp.  Toshiba, Vizio  “Google certainly is a key partner for us on the PC side
and will likely be key for us on the TV side as well,” said  Jeff Barney , general manager of digital products for Toshiba America.  Toshiba is considering options for future networked
televisions and doesn’t comment on its plans,  Yuko Sugahara , a
spokeswoman for Toshiba in Tokyo, said today.  Vizio doesn’t comment on unannounced products, said Chief
Sales Officer  Randy Waynick .  Samsung , the largest maker of televisions worldwide, said
it hasn’t committed to Internet-connected sets with Google’s
browser software included.  “A relationship with Google TV is currently under
consideration but no decision has yet been reached,” Samsung
spokeswoman SungIn Cho said in an e-mailed statement.  Google rose $11.96 to $594.97 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market  trading . The shares have lost 4 percent this
year.  Google has struggled to sign up content producers,
including  Walt Disney Co. ’s ABC, CBS Corp. and NBC, controlled
by General Electric Co., to unlock programs from their websites
for Google TV.  Google TV software, along with a push into 3-D television,
is key to Sony’s attempts to claw back sales lost to Samsung and
other set makers.  Intel Corp. , which is supplying chips for
Google TV, is trying to use the products to lessen its reliance
on PCs by winning market share in consumer electronics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian King  in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;
 Douglas MacMillan  in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
 Cliff Edwards  in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  