-- Pentagon Alerts House, Senate Panels to New Classified WikiLeaks Release
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2010-11-24T18:23:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/pentagon-warns-house-senate-defense-panels-of-more-wikileaks-documents.html
The Pentagon warned the U.S. Senate
and House Armed Services Committees that the website
 WikiLeaks.org  “intends to release several hundred thousand”
classified U.S. State Department cables as soon as Nov. 26.  The documents “touch on an enormous range of very
sensitive foreign policy issues,” Assistant Secretary for
Legislative Affairs  Elizabeth King  wrote yesterday in an e-mail
to the defense panels.  “We anticipate that the release could negatively impact
U.S. foreign relations,” she wrote, telling committee staff
members that “we will brief you once we have a better
understanding of what documents the WikiLeaks publication
contains.”  King said The New York Times, the U.K.’s Guardian and Der
Spiegel of Germany “are each currently working with WikiLeaks
to coordinate the release of these State Department documents.”  These   three   publications  were given advance access to two
earlier WikiLeaks releases of U.S. military documents: almost
400,000 related to the Iraq war dated between 2003 and 2010 and
about 75,000 from the same period on the Afghanistan war. The
Iraq documents were published on Oct. 22 and the Afghanistan
documents on July 25.  ‘Raw Observations’  When the Iraq documents were released, a Pentagon
spokesman, Marine Colonel  David Lapan , described them as “raw
observations from the tactical level of combat operations” and
said their publication posed a risk to national security. In her
e-mail to lawmakers yesterday, King had similar comments about
the State Department documents.  “State Department cables by their nature contain everyday
analysis and candid assessments that any government engages in
as part of effective foreign relations,” she wrote. “The
publication of this classified information by WikiLeaks is an
irresponsible attempt to wreak havoc and destabilize global
security. It potentially jeopardizes lives.”  Pentagon spokesman  Bryan Whitman  confirmed that the e-mails
had been sent to the two committees.  The Pentagon “had indications for some time” that
WikiLeaks planned to release more documents, Whitman said in an
interview yesterday. “As a result, we felt we had a
responsibility to notify key leaders with oversight
responsibility of the department like we normally do,” he said.  State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said WikiLeaks
has previously said that it plans to release additional
classified documents.  ‘Due Diligence’  “We are doing due diligence,” Crowley said in an e-mail
yesterday. The department is “assessing the possible impact on
our on-going diplomatic activity and notifying both Congress and
other governments what may occur.”  Crowley told reporters today in a briefing that “we’re in
touch with our posts around the world,” which  “have begun the
process of notifying governments that a release of documents is
possible in the near future.”  The State Department has had similar conversations with
members of Congress “to let them know what we are prepared
for,” Crowley said.  “The kinds of cables that posts send to Washington are
classified,” he said. “They involve discussions we’ve had with
government officials, with private citizens. They contain
analysis, they contain a record of the day-to-day diplomatic
activity that our personnel undertake.”  WikiLeaks receives confidential material that governments
and business want to keep secret and posts the information on
the Internet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Capaccio  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  