-- Persian Gulf Investors Shun IPOs Amid Rising Emerging Market Stocks
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2010-11-24T14:27:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/persian-gulf-investors-shun-share-sale-on-debt-concern-as-asia-sets-record.html
Companies in the Persian Gulf aren’t
benefiting from record demand for share sales in emerging
markets as debt concern hurts investor confidence.  Omani mobile-phone operator  Nawras  and  Aluminium Bahrain
BSC , the operator of an 850,000-metric-ton-a-year smelter, sold
shares this month at the bottom of the range used to canvas
investor interest in the stocks. The six-member Gulf Cooperation
Council region generated $1.91 billion of initial public
offerings this year, compared with $2.27 billion in the same
period a year earlier, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The region’s benchmark  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index  has gained
9.2 percent this year, compared with a 9.9 percent increase for
the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index.  The average number of shares
traded daily in Dubai has dropped 65 percent from the year-
earlier period. By contrast, the pace of IPOs in Asia has
climbed to a record since the crisis.  “It’s a chicken and egg situation,” said  Mohammed Ali Yasin , chief investment officer at Abu Dhabi-based financial
services company  CAPM Investment PJSC . “With equity markets
still struggling, it’s difficult to attract investors for IPOs,
but then you need new offerings to stimulate the markets.”  The volume of shares traded in  Dubai ,  Abu Dhabi  and  Oman  is
less than half what it was a year ago. It’s down 46 percent in
 Qatar , 43 percent in Saudi Arabia and 25 percent in  Kuwait .
Dubai’s economy is still struggling to recover from a 2009 slump
amid concern that government-owned investment entities won’t be
able to refinance loans used to finance a real-estate boom.  Axiom IPO  Axiom Ltd. , a Dubai-based mobile-phone retailer, on Nov. 21
set a price range of 80 cents to $1.15 for the sale of as much
as 35 percent of its shares to institutional investors in the
United Arab Emirates’ first IPO in almost two years.  “Looking at the overall market sentiment where retail
investors are still nervous, we felt that there would be enough
demand just from institutional investors,” Axiom Chief
Executive Officer  Faisal Al Bannai  said.  The 200 companies listed on the Gulf’s benchmark index are
trading at  16.3 times earnings , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with  15 times for Dubai’s index  and  14
times  for the MSCI EM Index.  Still, “appetite is improving albeit slowly,” said
 Shehzad Janab , head of asset management at Dubai-based Daman
Investments PSC. “The region is definitely on the radar screen
for debt investors. It’s only a matter of time before the same
holds true for institutional equity investors.”  Planned IPOs  Kuwait Energy Co., an oil and gas company that operates in
the Middle East and eastern Europe, plans to go public in the
next nine months, the company said Oct. 10. Emirates District
Cooling LLC, a Dubai-based provider of central air conditioning,
may offer shares by the end of 2011, Managing Director Adib
Moubadder said in October.  Their success may hinge on how shares of Nawras and
Aluminium Bahrain perform after their IPOs. Mazaya Qatar Real
Estate Development Co., which raised $137.4 million in a stock
sale in January, dropped 8.9 percent since the stock started
trading in Doha on Oct. 17.  “Investors are really sensitive about valuations and won’t
pay any price no matter how good the company is,”  Fadi Al Said ,
head of equities at ING Investment Management (Dubai) Ltd, said.
Aluminium Bahrain and Nawras will “set the tone for the
upcoming pipeline of share sales,” he said.  Easier in Asia  Aluminium Bahrain, owned by sovereign wealth fund  Bahrain
Mumtalakat Holding Co.,  raised $339 million after going public
at the bottom of the 0.90 dinar to 1.25 dinar range used to sell
the stock to money managers. Nawras, which is controlled by
Qatar Telecom QSC, sold shares for 702 baisas each, also the
bottom of the range, after taking an additional week to find
buyers for the shares. Nawras shares have gained 3.3 percent
since they started trading on Nov. 1.  Companies in Asia are finding it easier to raise money
through IPOs. Hong Kong’s  AIA Group Ltd.  and  Coal India Ltd. 
raised almost the same amount in October as the total from U.S.
equity sales in the first 10 months of 2010. Offerings from
Malaysia’s Petronas Chemicals Group Bhd. and Australia’s  QR
National Ltd.  this month contributed to the $158 billion raised
in the region in 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Middle East and North Africa equities are depressed
compared to emerging markets,” said  Julian Bruce , director of
equity sales at EFG-Hermes Holding SAE in Dubai. “The GCC has
not fully recovered from the financial crisis, which will have a
dampening effect on IPOs.”  Dubai Debt  Dubai racked up $109.3 billion of debt to transform the
emirate into a tourism, trade and financial-services hub,
according to International Monetary Fund.  Dubai World, one of the emirate’s three main state-owned
holding companies, roiled markets worldwide last year after
saying it would seek to delay repayments on its debt. Saudi
Arabia’s Saad and Algosaibi business groups defaulted on at
least $15.7 billion of loans last year. In September, Dubai
World’s creditors agreed to alter the terms on $24.9 billion of
the investment company’s debt.  “The retail investor is still suffering from the credit
crunch of 2008 and the hit they took to their net worth is still
fresh in their memories,” said  Saad al Chalabi , an
institutional trader at Al Ramz Securities in Abu Dhabi.  Before the financial crisis, economic growth and record-
high oil prices spurred a flurry of share sales. Port operator
DP World Ltd., a unit of Dubai World, raised $4.96 billion in
November 2007 in the Middle East’s largest IPO. That offering
was 15 times oversubscribed.  “We’re definitely keeping current market circumstances in
mind,” Axiom’s Al Bannai said. “We have positioned the price
at an extremely attractive level.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stefania Bianchi  in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  