-- TPG, Apollo Said to Overvalue Harrah's Stake Before Failed Public Offering
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r
-- 2010-11-24T16:44:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/tpg-apollo-said-to-overvalue-harrah-s-stake-before-failed-public-offering.html
Harrah’s Entertainment Inc. , the
world’s biggest casino operator, canceled an initial public
offering last week because potential investors valued the
company as much as $1 billion below its private-equity owners’
appraisals, two people with knowledge of the failed IPO said.  Leon Black ’s Apollo Global Management LLC and  David Bonderman ’s TPG Capital, the private-equity firms that took
Harrah’s private in 2008, were told by their IPO advisers that
potential investors valued the Las Vegas-based company at $10 a
share, or about $3.37 billion, according to the people, who
asked not to be named because the talks were private. In
September Apollo valued Harrah’s equity at about $3.83 billion
and TPG pegged it at about $4.36 billion.  Apollo  and TPG each rely on their own internal appraisals
when calculating their funds’ performance for current and
prospective investors. The higher the marks on each individual
investment, the better the fund’s overall results. The IPO for
Harrah’s was one of the first large buyouts with multiple owners
to come to market under accounting rules that went into effect
in 2007 requiring private-equity companies to gauge the “fair
value” of holdings that aren’t trading publicly.  “There haven’t been many private equity-backed IPOs since
the new accounting rules went into effect,” said  Steven Kaplan ,
a professor at the University of Chicago Booth School Of
Business. “It’s too early to say whether this type of disparity
between public and private marks will become more common.”  Name Change  Apollo spokesman  Charles V. Zehren  declined to comment, as
did TPG spokesman  Owen Blicksilver . Harrah’s changed its name to
Caesars Entertainment Corp. yesterday.  Apollo and TPG’s IPO advisers at Credit Suisse Group AG and
Citigroup Inc. received offers for no more than $10 a share for
the casino company, the people familiar with the talks said.
Harrah’s planned to offer 31.3 million shares for $15 to $17
each, to generate as much as $531 million, according to public
filings. The company cited “market conditions” in pulling the
IPO.  Apollo, based in New York, marked a 19 percent stake in
Harrah’s at about $728 million at the end of September, implying
that the equity value was $3.83 billion, or about $460 million
more than the company’s valuation had it sold shares in the
offering at $10 each, according to public filings and a letter
to investors from Apollo. It was also a 12 percent decrease from
Apollo’s mark in June, which indicated that Harrah’s equity was
worth $4.36 billion.  Equity Value  Harrah’s would have had an equity value of $3.37 billion if
the IPO priced at $10 per share, based on the 336.6 million
shares that its filings say would have been outstanding.  An independent consulting service reviews Apollo’s
valuation methods, according to the company’s filings with the
Securities and Exchange Commission. The estimated values may
“differ significantly from the values that would have been used
had a ready market for the investments existed, and the
differences could be material,” according to the filing.  Private-equity firms generally update valuations on a
quarterly basis and will send investors revised figures through
the end of December.  Fort Worth, Texas-based TPG, which holds a similar stake in
Harrah’s as Apollo, left its equity valuation for Harrah’s
unchanged at $4.36 billion through June and September, according
to a person briefed on TPG’s valuations. Blicksilver, TPG’s
spokesman, declined to comment on the figures.  Investors’ ‘Skepticism’  “Despite the healthy degree of skepticism over managers’
marks, investors rely on those numbers for their own books and
balances,” said Jean-Marc Cuvilly, managing partner at Triago
SA, which helps firms raise money and sells interest in existing
buyout pools. “Many public pensions don’t have the resources or
the information to do their own analysis.”  Private-equity firms pool money from investors and borrow
money to finance takeovers with the intention of divesting the
companies later for a profit. Those profits typically are
realized through sales to corporations or another investor, or
by selling shares to the public.  Harrah’s failed to sell its shares even as the U.S. IPO
market recorded its biggest week of the year, buoyed by a 16
percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index since the end of
June. Buyout firms sold shares in a dozen of their companies,
and 10 traded above their IPO prices.  Accounting Rules  For most of private equity’s 35-year history, buyout firms
typically valued investments at the cost of acquisition until
they sold them, usually years later. The Financial Accounting
Standards Board’s Statement No. 157, which went into effect at
the end of 2007, required the firms to gauge the fair value of
holdings that aren’t traded on a quarterly basis. Most firms use
a blend of public comparisons and discounted cash-flow analysis
to value their holdings, said Tom Carrier, who oversees private-
equity investments at Offit Capital in New York.  “Mark-to-market rules don’t necessarily require private-
equity firms to rely solely on comparable public company
multiples for their valuations,” Carrier said.  Harrah’s had more debt relative to cash flow than any
private equity-backed company that sold shares this year except
one: Noranda Aluminum Holding Corp., according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Ron Burkle  Harrah’s was the first private equity-backed company to
postpone or withdraw an offering after setting a price range
since Americold Realty Trust, owned by billionaire  Ron Burkle ’s
Yucaipa Cos., shelved its deal in May, data compiled by
Bloomberg and Greenwich, Connecticut-based Renaissance Capital
LLC showed.  John Paulson , the hedge-fund manager who made $15 billion
in 2007 betting on the decline in subprime mortgages, won the
right to be the first equity holder to register and possibly
sell his Harrah’s stock as part of his hedge fund’s swap of debt
for equity with the casino company.  Harrah’s filed an  amended registration  to reflect the
potential sale of Paulson’s shares. Paulson and his affiliates
may sell as much as 7.1 million shares, or 9.9 percent of
Harrah’s shares outstanding, according to the filing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cristina Alesci  in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Keehner  in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  