-- Pictet May Add More Funds to Smaller Managers to Cut `Druckenmiller Risk'
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2010-11-24T03:16:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/pictet-may-add-more-funds-to-smaller-managers-to-cut-druckenmiller-risk-.html
Pictet & Cie, Switzerland’s biggest
closely held private bank, is shifting more of its $10 billion
hedge fund investments to newer, lesser-known managers from the
largest, most established houses to boost returns.  The bank may increase money invested in newer managers to
60 percent, said  Nicolas Campiche , Geneva-based chief executive
officer of Pictet Alternative Investments. It currently
allocates about half of the assets in its funds of funds and
tailored pools for clients to “blue-chip names.”  Pictet is focusing on returns while more investors are
adding money to the largest and oldest funds seen as having the
expertise to control risks. It’s also reducing its bias toward
older managers because of the “Druckenmiller risk,” said
Campiche, referring to the New York hedge-fund manager who
announced the end of his 30-year career after returns failed to
meet his expectations.  “The typical situation in the aftermath of a crisis is
people tend to focus too much on the risk and not enough on
performance,” Campiche, 41, said in an interview in Hong Kong
yesterday. “We’re trying to refocus a bit our portfolio on
lesser-known entities, smaller, more nimble funds.”  Managers overseeing at least $5 billion drew 75 percent of
the $19 billion net inflows in the industry in the third quarter,
data from Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc. show. Pictet
had a traditional bias toward the largest and oldest managers
and further built up allocations to them in 2006, expecting a
four-year bull run in the securities markets and the good
performances of hedge-fund managers to end, Campiche said.  Better Returns  Hedge funds with less than $100 million of assets returned
an annualized 16 percent from 1996 to 2007, beating the 11.5
percent for peers with more than $500 million of assets,
according to a PerTrac Financial Solutions  study . Small- and
mid-sized funds also outperformed large peers in 2009, the New
York-based software provider said in a  statement  last month.  Pictet is tilting its allocations toward smaller, newer
funds as a growing number of blue-chip fund managers retire
since the global crisis in 2008 increased volatility in the
markets, Campiche said.  “It’s a more challenging environment and some that have
nothing to prove any more, either to themselves or to the
investor base, may just decide to do something else,” said
Campiche. “That Druckenmiller risk is higher today than three
years ago. This is a bit of new risk in our portfolio.”  Druckenmiller  Stanley Druckenmiller  said in August he was shutting his
Duquesne Capital Management LLC, pulling the plug on the manager
of $12 billion of assets after he failed in the last three years
to match returns averaging 30 percent a year since 1986.  Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch & Co. unit expected
the hedge fund closure rate to climb to as much as 20 percent by
the first quarter 2011, from 15 percent in the last two years,
 Justin Fredericks , its New York-based head of U.S. capital
introductions, said in September.  The challenge for investors is to find managers who can
replace the old guard in their allocations, Campiche said. He
declined to give any names dropped from Pictet’s allocation list
or added to its pipeline.  Fund Allocations  Half of Pictet’s hedge-fund assets are in the form of funds
of funds, and the other half are portfolios tailored to meet the
requirements of specific investors, said Campiche. Its $1.1
billion  Mosaic  fund returned 13.8 percent since January 2007.  Pictet invests in about 100 hedge funds and has another 100
funds in its pipeline for possible allocations, Campiche said.  It picks managers who have at least 15 years of experience
in the financial industry. It is also replacing some funds in
its allocation pipeline to focus on strategies “more conducive
for performance,” Campiche said.  Pictet attracted about $400 million of net inflows this
year, Campiche said. About 50 percent of its money comes from
institutions such as pension and government departments,
especially in Europe, and the rest from wealthy individuals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bei Hu  in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  