-- Pimco Picks Northern Neighbor as Two-Year Note Gap Widens: Canada Credit
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2010-11-24T15:47:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/pimco-favors-northern-neighbor-as-2-year-bond-spread-widens-canada-credit.html
Canada’s reluctance to raise
interest rates much beyond those in the U.S. is an opportunity
for U.S. investors to profit by buying Canadian bonds, according
to Pacific Investment Management Co., the world’s largest
manager of bond funds.  The  difference  in yields between Canadian and U.S. two-year
notes widened yesterday to the most since January 2004, as
investors increased bets that Canada’s key rate will diverge
from the U.S. rate. That may not happen if quantitative easing
in the U.S. and growing demand for commodities bolsters the
Canadian dollar and damps demand for the nation’s exports,
prompting Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  to hold off from
rate increases, said  Edward Devlin , a money manager at Pimco.  “If rates don’t change in the U.S. and Canada, and you
sold your U.S. two-year note and bought a Canadian two-year
note, you are tripling” yield, said Devlin, who heads Pimco’s
Canadian portfolio management team. “With the interest rate
differential where it is now, we think that is a relatively
attractive place to invest especially for a U.S.-based
investor.”  Carney, 45, left the benchmark target rate at 1 percent
last month, following three consecutive increases to gauge the
global recovery and avoiding a divergence with the Federal
Reserve, which has locked its benchmark rate in a range of zero
to 0.25 percent since December 2008. Carney said in a Sept. 24
interview on CNBC that “there are limits to the divergence that
there can be between Canada and the United States.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to hold the debt of Canada’s corporations rather than its
federal government, was unchanged yesterday at 135 basis points,
indor 1.35 percentage points. Spreads reached 134 basis points
Nov. 16, the narrowest gap since March.  Breakeven Rates  In provincial bond markets, relative yields were unchanged
at 53 basis points. They reached 51 basis points on Nov. 16, the
tightest spreads since April.  Canadian 10-year  breakeven  rates, which measure the
difference in yield between inflation-linked and cash bonds and
gauges price expectations, fell today to 2.25 percent, after
touching a six-month high 2.27 percent yesterday. Statistics
Canada yesterday said inflation in the country advanced at the
fastest pace in two years, accelerating to 2.4 percent in
October after a 1.9 percent gain in September.  Triple the Yield  “With a strong currency, it’s very difficult for the Bank
of Canada to get too far ahead of the” Fed, said Devlin. In
addition to the extra yield on Canadian bonds, investors have
“the benefit of the dollar if you think it’s going up.”  Canada’s currency has gained 19 percent against the U.S.
dollar since the start of 2009. The Canadian currency today
gained 1.4 percent to C$1.0108 per U.S. dollar in Toronto from
C$1.0247 the prior day, making it the best performer among the
16 most-traded U.S. dollar counterparts. One Canadian dollar
buys 98.93 U.S. cents.  Devlin declined to comment on specific Pimco trades. The
fund manages over $8 billion in assets on behalf of Canadian
clients, he said. Pimco, a unit of the Munich-based insurer
Allianz SE, managed $1.236 trillion of assets as of September.  Canadian two-year  notes  were yielding 1.71 percent today,
compared with 0.508 percent in the U.S, narrowing the spread to
119.8 basis points. Yesterday, the spread was the highest since
Jan. 13, 2004. The spread has averaged 83 basis points this
year. One basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Canadian 10-year notes, yielding 3.15 percent today, are
trading 29.6 basis points  above U.S. notes . The average spread
between Canadian and U.S. 10-year notes has been 4.8 basis
points this year.  Fiscal Position  Canadian government bonds have returned 7.3 percent this
year, and are headed for an 8.8 percent annual return, the most
since 2008, when they returned 12 percent, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch data show. Global government bonds have returned
5.7 percent this year, and U.S. Treasuries have generated an 8.6
percent gain.  Canadian bonds also will benefit from the country’s
relatively better fiscal position at a time of heightened
sovereign credit risk, while investors are less concerned about
inflation in Canada since the country’s central bank refrained
from printing money, Devlin said. That will sustain demand and
reduce volatility of longer-dated bonds, he said.  “People who look to quality come to Canada because of
sovereign debt issues,” Devlin said, adding he expects real
rates of return will stay relatively low and inflation
expectations will remain anchored so “the backend of Canada’s
yield curve stays relatively less volatile than the back end of
the U.S. yield curve.”  In an article published Nov. 19 on Pimco’s website, Devlin
said the Newport Beach, California-based firm is “long-term
bullish” on the Canadian dollar, though there could be
volatility because of policy-driven “distortions” coming
primarily from the U.S. and China. Devlin cited risks associated
with any potential drop in commodity prices, the effects of a
higher Canadian dollar fueled by monetary and currency policies
in China and the U.S., and sovereign credit problems in other
countries.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Theophilos Argitis  in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  