-- PNC Owns Empty House, Buyer Sits in Motel Amid Foreclosure Mess
-- B y   D a v i d   H e n r y
-- 2010-11-24T11:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/pnc-owns-empty-house-buyer-sits-in-motel-as-foreclosure-mess-halts-sales.html
PNC Financial Services Group Inc. 
was on the brink of selling Jim Durden a foreclosed house in
Weed, California, last month when the country’s biggest banks
came under public fire for improperly seizing homes. Now, he
lives in an  EconoLodge .  “I can’t get the house ready for winter, can’t install the
missing water heater, can’t whack the weeds down, and can’t
attend to the things a new homeowner needs to do,” Durden, 65,
e-mailed from the motel. He has been in limbo since Oct. 7 after
moving his belongings 640 miles north from a Los Angeles
apartment.  After  Bank of America Corp.  and other lenders delayed
seizures almost two months ago to check their sworn court
statements in thousands of foreclosures, a growing number of
would-be buyers are struggling to close deals -- a sign that the
documentation mess is dragging on the market. October sales of
existing homes fell more than economists forecast, dropping 2.2
percent, the National Association of Realtors said yesterday.  Even PNC, which has said an internal review found its
procedures are designed to prevent unwarranted foreclosures, has
ready buyers claiming the bank’s examination of completed
seizures is derailing deals. A spokesman for the Pittsburgh-
based lender declined to comment on Durden’s case and others.  “We heard of virtually none of this happening until the
so-called robo-signing scandal and subsequent foreclosure
freeze,” said  Rick Sharga , senior vice president of RealtyTrac
Inc., an Irvine, California-based real estate data provider.
While there is no estimate yet for how many sales are stalled,
stories like Durden’s are increasingly popping up as firms try
to ensure property titles are clear for resale, he said.  May Never Close  Robo-signing refers to loan-servicing workers who, in some
cases, signed thousands of foreclosure affidavits without
personally verifying their contents, raising concerns among
courts, lawmakers and housing advocates that borrowers were
improperly evicted. Rechecking documents slows the transfer of
homes from banks to people who can afford them, undermining a
housing recovery.  “Many of these transactions will probably never close,”
said Greg Rokeh, a manager of bank-owned real estate in Longwood,
Florida, for  Watson Realty Corp.  He said he has about 25 pending
sales of foreclosed homes that were put on hold amid
document reviews. Most of his buyers will give up, he predicted,
declining to identify the lenders involved.  Banks owned more than 950,000 properties at the end of
October, up 25 percent from a year ago, according to  RealtyTrac .
The impact of stalled deals on the housing recovery “will be
minimal” if the logjam is resolved within the next month or two,
which is normally a slow season for sales, Sharga said.  ‘Huge Inconvenience’  If delays persist, more would-be buyers may find themselves
biding time like Ted Roberts, his wife and two young sons, who
checked into a one-room unit at the Homestead Studio Suites in
Altamonte Springs, Florida last month after their purchase of a
four-bedroom house was put on hold. The home was seized by Bank
of America on behalf of  Freddie Mac , a mortgage guarantor under
U.S. conservatorship, said Erika Phelan, Roberts’s real estate
agent with Buyers Broker of Florida in Orlando.  Freddie Mac won’t sell a house if there is any question
whether it holds the title, said  Brad German , a spokesman.  “We understand it is a huge inconvenience” to buyers, he
said. He didn’t know how many sales the McLean, Virginia-based
company has stopped.  Bank of America, the biggest U.S. bank, announced Oct. 1
that it had begun halting some foreclosures to recheck paperwork.
As parts of the review continue, the bank is selling houses it
already owns, said  Rick Simon , a spokesman for the
Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank, in an interview.  Inventory Increases  Ally Financial Inc.’s GMAC Mortgage unit halted some sales
of homes it had seized for itself and mortgage investors,  Gina Proia , a spokeswoman for Detroit-based Ally said, declining to
say how many.  “We do not expect inventory increases to be significant,”
she said, adding that the company’s reviews and improvements of
its foreclosures are “making good progress.” GMAC Mortgage
halted evictions in 23 states, the company said Sept. 20.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , the second-biggest U.S. bank, has
continued to sell property it owns while reviewing foreclosure
cases in process, said its spokesman,  Tom Kelly . The New York-
based bank expects to refile documents in pending foreclosures
“soon,” he said.  ‘Impenetrable Wall’  Durden was scheduled to close Oct. 8 on his $75,000
purchase of PNC’s 1,150-square-foot house on Weed’s Sherwood
Road, he said in an interview. The bank postponed the deal a day
before. He had already hired laborers to pack his 26-foot U-Haul
truck and settled up with his landlord. So, the retired rigger
of racing yachts drove north. Ever since, Durden and real estate
broker Joe Faris, of  Richter Scale Real Estate  in Yreka,
California, have been trying to find out when the deal will
close, they said.  “It seems as though PNC has put up an impenetrable wall
around them so no one can find out what is really going on,”
Durden said.  “PNC will not comment on any individual properties and
will not comment on the assertions of third parties,” a
spokesman for the bank,  Fred Solomon , said in an e-mail. Solomon
was provided addresses by Bloomberg News for the house Durden
wants along with those of three other foreclosed houses that
potential buyers say are in limbo.  “Our reviews will continue as long as necessary to ensure
homeowners have been treated fairly and in accordance with
applicable law,” he said. “In some cases, these reviews
require coordination with investors.”  Missing Interest Rate  In Ohio, Justin and Thara Watson said they’ve contacted
everyone they think could help them, including their congressman,
and learned nothing about when they might close their purchase
of a house PNC had taken in foreclosure on behalf of  Fannie Mae ,
another guarantor under U.S. conservatorship. They were
scheduled to get the 1,500-square-foot house on St. Clair Ave.
in East Liverpool for $69,000 on Oct. 15 and now are worried
they’ll lose the 4.75 percent loan they arranged.  “It would be unfair to us to lose that rate because of a
bank mistake,” Justin Watson said in an e-mail.  When the mortgage companies started foreclosures to review
documents, Fannie Mae stopped selling houses until the companies
clear up questions about titles, said  Amy Bonitatibus , a
spokeswoman for the Washington-based company. Fannie Mae is
offering to rent its empty houses to buyers with contracts to
reduce their inconvenience, she said.  Amy Hyde, of Mechanicsburg, Pennsylvania, and her husband,
Daniel, and boys aged 10 and 13, are living with packed boxes in
a condominium. Their deal to buy a house for $480,000 on a 1.7-
acre lot on Bellows Court in nearby Lewisberry was frozen Nov. 9,
Hyde said in an interview. The foreclosure was handled by PNC
earlier this year and Freddie Mac, which owns the property,
postponed the sale, Hyde said.  “They are talking everywhere about the economy being so
bad and real estate being so bad, well this certainly isn’t
helping,” Hyde said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Henry  in New York at 
 dhenry19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  