-- Poland May Issue Long-Term Bonds to Pension Funds to Help Curb Public Debt
-- B y   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 2010-11-24T15:10:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/poland-may-issue-pension-bonds-to-compensate-private-funds.html
Poland may issue long-term pension
bonds to compensate private funds for funneling some employee
contributions to the budget as the government seeks to reduce
public debt after the global financial crisis.  The plan is “one of these ideas that guarantee safety of
future pensioners and the budget without a revolution in the
pension system,” Prime Minister  Donald Tusk  said today in
parliament. “A concrete proposal will be presented next week.”  The bonds wouldn’t be tradeable, keeping them outside
public-debt calculations,  Michal Boni , Tusk’s chief adviser,
said in an interview with  TVN CNBC . Interest would match
Poland’s economic-growth rate, he said. They would remain a
minority of private pension-fund holdings to ensure assets
remain diversified, Boni said.  Poland is looking for ways to narrow the budget gap created
by shifting employee pension contributions to private funds from
the state-run system. The European last month rejected a request
by nine member states, including Poland, Hungary and Bulgaria,
to change accounting rules so that pension-overhaul costs aren’t
included in debt and deficit calculations.  The pension bonds would reduce public debt to between 30
percent and 40 percent of gross domestic product by 2060 from an
estimated 53 percent this year, Boni said. A ratio above 55
percent triggers automatic spending cuts under Polish law.  “We need to find a solution that won’t destroy the
aspirations and needs of future pensioners, but at the same time
will be safe for public finances,” Boni said. “We can’t afford
to generate more public debt if we want to adopt the euro.”  Suspension Possible  While the government is considering various alternatives,
the bond proposal has “the strongest support at the moment,”
Boni said, adding that Tusk will seek support for the plan at
the Dec. 16 EU summit in Brussels.  “If this solution is too complex or unfeasible for quick
introduction, a temporary suspension of all or part of the
transfers to pension funds should be considered,” Boni said.
“It is still on the table.”  Tusk yesterday ruled out freezing payments to private
pension funds after Hungary and Bulgaria approved suspensions.  Janusz Jankowiak , chief economist at the Polish Business
Council, said the pension bonds were “a bad idea.”  “It’s unreasonable to expect the EU will exclude this kind
of non-marketable security from the public debt,” he said in an
interview with TVN24 television. “If the EU allows pension
bonds” to be counted differently, “why shouldn’t that be the
case with other kinds of bonds?”  ‘Shouldn’t Renege’  Poland this year used a 7.97 billion-zloty ($2.7 billion)
dedicated bond sale to finance infrastructure projects, keeping
the cost out of public-debt calculations under local accounting
rules. The EU includes the road bonds in the country’s debt,
which it estimates at 55.4 percent of GDP.  Poland shifted workers to private funds 11 years ago to
prevent pension obligations from eating up a larger and larger
portion of the budget as the population ages.  Witold Orlowski , a
member of the Economics Council, which advises the prime
minister, said Poland should stick to this commitment.  “The majority of the Economics Council agrees that we
shouldn’t renege on the previous reform,” Orlowski said today
on TVN24 television.  The council is discussing seven scenarios for changes to
the pension system and will submit its opinion on each to Tusk,
council member Malgorzata Starczewska-Krzysztoszek told the PAP
news service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Monika Rozlal  in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  