-- Siddle's Wickets, Cook's 50 Leave First Cricket Ashes Test Evenly Poised
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2010-11-25T05:03:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/ponting-strauss-seek-to-set-tone-for-ashes-cricket-success-in-first-match.html
Peter Siddle  took two wickets to
help Australia restrict England to 172-4 at tea on day one of
the series-opening Ashes cricket Test in Brisbane.  Siddle, chosen ahead of Doug Bollinger as the third pace
bowler in Australia’s attack, removed  Kevin Pietersen  and Paul
Collingwood midway through the afternoon session to leave
England struggling at 125-4.  Alastair Cook  and  Ian Bell  steadied the innings with an
unbroken 47-run partnership as Cook brought up his 23rd half-
century in elite Test cricket. Cook, who was dropped when on 26
by Test debutant Xavier Doherty, is 60 not out, with Bell on 26.  England also lost two wickets for 86 runs in the morning
session after captain  Andrew Strauss  won the toss and opted to
bat first amid overcast conditions at the Gabba, where Australia
is unbeaten in  21 matches  going back to 1988.  Strauss fell without scoring in the third ball before  Shane Watson  removed  Jonathan Trott  for 29.  Strauss, who led England to a 2-1 Ashes triumph at home
last year, lasted three minutes before swing bowler  Ben Hilfenhaus  enticed him into a cut shot that flew straight to
 Mike Hussey  at gully. Cook and Trott then added 41 runs for the
second wicket before Watson knocked over Trott’s middle stump
with a delivery that speared between bat and pad.  Pietersen joined Cook in the middle and the pair guided
England to lunch with a 45-run partnership. They extended their
stand to 76 runs after the interval before Siddle struck twice
on his 26th birthday.  Pietersen, England’s leading run scorer in Australia four
years ago, was on 43 when he drove at a delivery that caught an
outside edge and was snaffled by Australia captain Ricky Ponting
at second slip. Collingwood followed for 4 soon after, edging to
Marcus North at third slip.  While England won the past two Ashes contests staged in the
U.K., its last series victory on Australian soil was in 1986-87.
Australia has only lost two home series since that defeat to
 Mike Gatting ’s England team.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Baynes  in Brisbane through the Sydney newsroom at +61-
   dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  