-- Portuguese Strike as Debt Contagion Spreads to Lisbon Streets: Euro Credit
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2010-11-24T09:28:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/portuguese-strike-as-debt-contagion-spreads-to-lisbon-streets-euro-credit.html
Portuguese Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  is facing the country’s biggest strike in 22 years as
fallout from Europe’s debt crisis spreads from bond markets to
the streets.  Workers are walking off the job today to protest government
austerity measures as concern about Socrates’s ability to tame
the euro-region’s fourth-biggest budget deficit pushed the cost
of insuring Portugal’s debt against default to a record high.
Credit default swaps climbed 23 basis points yesterday to 482.2,
while the yield premium demanded to hold the country’s 10-year
bonds over German bunds rose 15 basis points today to 450.  The backlash against wage cuts and tax increases to trim
euro-region deficits is fueling political turmoil and
undermining investor confidence. Irish Prime Minister Brian
Cowen said Nov. 22 he will seek early elections after a key ally
abandoned his ruling coalition over his decision to seek an EU
bailout. Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi faces a
December confidence vote and Greek Prime Minister George
Papandreou also threatened this month to hold elections.  “The strike arises in a context of a set of measures that
are quite significant and have social impact,” said  Carlos Firme , a director at Lisbon-based Banif Banco de Investimento
SA. “It’s natural that there are demonstrations of
discontent.”  Labor Unrest  The Portuguese strike follows protests in Greece, Spain and
Ireland over budget cuts that may cripple their economic
recoveries and deepen workers’ pain. In Ireland, labor unions
are planning “mass mobilization” in protest of planned
spending cuts, with a march in Dublin on Nov. 27. The
International Monetary Fund forecasts Portugal’s economy may
shrink 1.4 percent next year because of fiscal tightening.  Portugal’s biggest unions are reacting now because the
government was slower to push through spending cuts and, as a
result, made less progress in lowering the  budget deficit ,
fueling investor speculation the country may be next to seek aid
from the European Union. State workers held a strike in March.  Portugal said in September it would cut the wage bill by 5
percent for public workers earning more than 1,500 euros ($2005)
a month, freeze hiring and raise value-added taxes by 2
percentage points to 23 percent to help reduce a deficit that
amounted to 9.3 percent of gross domestic product last year. The
measures are included in the government’s 2011 spending plan,
which faces a final vote in parliament on Nov. 26.  Deficit Widening  Ireland, Spain and Greece have implemented similar measures
to cut their deficit levels. Portugal’s central government
budget gap widened 1.8 percent in the first 10 months. That
compared with a decline of 47 percent in Spain and more than 30
percent in Greece.  Portuguese workers at ports and hospitals are participating
in the strike, and Lisbon’s metro rail service is closed, the
CGTP labor group said. Most flights departing from Lisbon and
Oporto airports this morning have been canceled, according to
the website of Portuguese airport operator ANA-Aeroportos de
Portugal SA. The last general strike by the country’s largest
labor organizations was in 1988.  “It’s indisputable that today we need to fight the
deficit, or face the penalty of having the IMF around, but it
can’t be only the workers that pay the bill,” UGT Secretary-
General  Joao Proenca  said today in comments broadcast by
television station SIC Noticias.  Slide in Polls  Support for Socrates’s minority government has slipped as
discontent over the economic situation deepens. Backing for the
Socialists fell 8 percentage points to 26 percent in a poll
published in Diario de Noticias on Oct. 29. The Social
Democrats, the biggest opposition party, led the Socialists with
40 percent, up 3 points from the previous poll in June.  Announcing the deepest deficit reductions in more than 30
years has done little to reassure investors. The  yield premium 
on Portugal’s 10-year debt reached a euro-era record of 483
basis points on Nov. 11 as Ireland moved toward seeking a
bailout.  “One of the risks that Ireland has faced and Portugal
faces is that as a very small economy, even if fundamentals are
better than many people give it credit for, it’s easy to be
shouted down by the markets,”  Kevin Daly , an economist at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said yesterday on Bloomberg
Television’s “The Pulse” with  Andrea Catherwood .  Smaller Deficit  Portugal’s deficit isn’t as bloated as the other so-called
peripheral euro countries and the budget measures may leave it
with one of the lowest shortfalls in the region next year.
Unlike Spain and Ireland, Portugal also didn’t suffer a real
estate bubble. The country doesn’t have a bond redemption until
April and has completed this year’s bond sales, limiting the
real impact of rising borrowing costs.  “Portugal is going to have a 4.6 percent deficit next
year, which is lower than Germany, lower than France, lower than
Spain,”  Angel Gurria , secretary general of the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development, said in a Nov. 21
interview. “Portugal has done its homework. Portugal has made
its effort. They have addressed the issues and taken the bull by
the horns.”  Portugal’s economic problems are “very different” than
Ireland’s, and the government has made “bold decisions” to cut
the deficit, European Union Economic and Monetary Commissioner
 Olli Rehn  said Nov. 22.  Achieving that deficit reduction will become more difficult
as the austerity measures bite and the recovery falters. The
OECD forecast on Nov. 18 that economic growth of 1.5 percent
this year will give way to a contraction of 0.2 percent in 2011
as the measures kick in.  Economic growth  has averaged less than
1 percent a year in the past decade.  “The problem of Portugal is growth, or more accurately the
lack of it,,”  Luigi Speranza , an economist at BNP Paribas SA in
London, wrote in a note to investors. “Structural weaknesses
and associated low potential growth are frustrating any attempt
at correcting fiscal imbalances.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joao Lima  in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 