-- Appiah Sees Role of Honor in Finance, Gay-Bashing: Interview
-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 2010-11-24T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/princeton-s-appiah-sees-role-of-honor-in-finance-gay-bashing-interview.html
For more than a millennium, high-
born Chinese girls hobbled along on three-inch stubs achieved
through a painful process involving blood, pus, and
putrefaction.  The girls, some as young as 4, screamed in agony. Still,
footbinding continued for a millennium.  Then a 19th-century intellectual said footbinding made the
Chinese appear ridiculous in the eyes of the world. His views
achieved currency and the practice simply melted away.  In his new book, “ The Honor Code : How Moral Revolutions
Happen,” Kwame Anthony Appiah examines the roles esteem and
shame played in halting once-sanctioned social practices such as
footbinding, slavery and dueling.  Appiah is a professor of philosophy at  Princeton University 
and president of the  PEN/American Center .  We spoke at Bloomberg’s New York world headquarters.  Lundborg: How do you use the term “honor?”  Appiah: Honor is an entitlement to respect. It’s allocated
to people by a code on the basis of rules that depend on who you
are, so it’s very connected with identity.  You can share in the honor and shame of people with whom
you share an identity. I can be shamed by Abu Ghraib and
Guantanamo, and I am. It’s what motivates me to think about
whether we can do something about that.  Lundborg: Isn’t honor ultimately a moral pissing contest?  Appiah: Yes, it is. We use honor to reward all kinds of
things. We honor great athletes, scholars and actors for their
accomplishments, even if they’re bad people in other ways.  It’s part of what keeps us striving for excellence.  Dark Side  Lundborg: But there’s a dark side?  Appiah: If your society associates excellence with killing
your daughter when she’s been raped, it will make you do that,
too.  Lundborg: You say many Muslims regard Westerners as “bay
ghairat,” or lacking in honor. How can we shame any Muslims if
they think we have no honor?  Appiah: We can’t. There’s not much for us to do about honor
killing.  We are in an impossible position in relation to many of
these gender issues in the Muslim world because we’re thought of
as enemies of Islam.  Lundborg: We’re not exactly free from gender issues in the
U.S., though, are we?  Appiah: The center of the kind of homophobia we have in
this society is the dishonoring of homosexuals. That’s what it’s
about.  The shame that many young gay people feel that leads some
of them to kill themselves is an interesting kind of shame. It
shows how powerful honor mechanisms can be even against people
who have some inkling that in fact there’s nothing morally wrong
with what they’re doing.  Lundborg: They can’t tune out these views?  Appiah: As social creatures, our self-respect is tied up
with the respect of others.  Power of Honor  Lundborg: Where would you harness the power of the honor
code now?  Appiah: In domestic policy terms, there is something
completely shameful about our current incarceration practices.  It’s a scandal that with 4 percent of the world’s
population we have 25 percent of the world’s prisoners.  Lundborg: Where else?  Appiah: Another obvious place is to change the way animals,
especially mammals, are treated in feedlots and places like
that. Our descendents will look back and say, “How could you
possible think this is okay?”  It will be more expensive to do it without cruelty, but
that’s like saying cotton will be more expensive without free
labor.  Honorable Capitalism  Lundborg: What about honor on Wall Street?  Appiah: Honor in the sense of the handshake and the deal is
absolutely central to capitalism. This is Max Weber, the
Protestant ethic, and that’s why the Dutch invented modern
capitalism.  If you broke the rules, you wouldn’t just upset the person
you made the deal with, you’d be ostracized by the entire
community.  When the honor system is working, it can be much more
important than the law.  Lundborg: Are Wall Street incentives a problem?  Appiah: As long as business is honorably conducted, the
mere fact that people are getting a lot of money is not a bad
thing.  It should only be regarded as a bad thing if their having
it is associated causally with bad things. If the structure of
incentives, including bonuses, motivates people to cut corners
and so on, then we should rein it in.  To buy this book in North America, click  here .  ( Zinta Lundborg  is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.
The interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 