-- Rajaratnam, Chiesi Lose Bid to Suppress Wiretaps in Insider-Trading Case
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2010-11-25T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/rajaratnam-chiesi-can-t-be-tried-together-on-all-counts-u-s-judge-says.html
Galleon Group LLC founder  Raj Rajaratnam  and former hedge fund consultant  Danielle Chiesi  lost
a bid to block the first-ever use of wiretap evidence in an
insider-trading trial.  U.S. District Judge  Richard J. Holwell  in New York ruled
yesterday the government complied with federal wiretapping laws
in its investigation of both defendants. Theirs is the largest
insider-trading case involving hedge funds.  Holwell’s ruling will probably be harmful to Rajaratnam and
Chiesi at their January trial, said  Andrew Hruska , a former
federal prosecutor now at the law firm King & Spalding LLP.
Criminal defendants “tend to plead guilty” in cases where
prosecutors have recordings, said Hruska, who isn’t involved in
the Rajaratnam case and doesn’t know what’s been recorded.  “Jurors like tapes,” Hruska said in an interview after
the ruling. “They can be extremely convincing.”  A Rajaratnam spokesman, Jim McCarthy, and  Alan R. Kaufman ,
a lawyer for Chiesi, declined to comment.  Rajaratnam, 53, was arrested last year and is the central
figure in a probe of insider trading at hedge funds that has led
to 14 guilty pleas. He and Chiesi, a former consultant at New
Castle Funds LLC, deny wrongdoing. They are accused of using
illegal tips from company executives, hedge fund officials and
other insiders to earn millions of dollars.  Defense Argument  At a hearing last month, Rajaratnam’s lawyer  John Dowd 
argued that prosecutors failed to comply with federal laws by
not disclosing to judges who approved the wiretaps key facts
about the government’s investigation, including details about
the government’s star witness, Roomy Kahn. Holwell disagreed in
a 68-page opinion.  “Rajaratnam has shown that the government’s application
omitted and misstated important information regarding the
credibility of a key government informant, Roomy Kahn, but
suppression is not required because the remainder of the
affidavit demonstrated ample reason to find probable cause,”
the judge wrote.  Evidence at the hearing showed that the government secretly
recorded about 2,400 conversations between Rajaratnam and more
than 130 friends, business associates and alleged accomplices.  At a trial, conversations that Rajaratnam and Chiesi had
with others who are not charged, or references they made to
other people, probably will be heard in court.  Lots of Names  “You’re likely to hear a lot of other names on the
tapes,” Hruska said.  The contents of the wiretaps have not been disclosed. A
prosecutor said after Rajaratnam’s arrest that they show him
engaged “in a veritable smorgasbord of insider trading.”  In a separate ruling yesterday, Holwell partly granted a
request by Rajaratnam and Chiesi to be tried separately on some
crimes they’re not both accused of. Holwell suggested they can
be tried together on some counts. He invited lawyers in the case
to offer proposals.  In his wiretap ruling, Holwell said that prosecutors failed
to disclose to judges approving the taps the nature and extent
of a prior investigation of Rajaratnam by the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission. He called those omissions “troubling
to say the least.”  At the same time, he said, the SEC’s years-long probe
failed to uncover Rajaratnam’s alleged insider trading ring and
was unlikely to do so because its participants “conducted their
scheme by telephone.” Had prosecutors disclosed the SEC probe,
it “would ultimately have shown that a wiretap was necessary
and appropriate,” the judge said.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-1184, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Glovin  in federal court in New York
at   dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
 Patricia Hurtado  in federal court in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 