-- Treasuries Extend Declines After Sale of $29 Billion in Seven-Year Notes
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2010-11-24T22:05:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/treasuries-decline-after-29-billion-7-year-note-sale-less-safety-demand.html
Treasuries fell, wiping out gains
posted the past two days, as the refuge appeal of U.S. debt
declined and reports showing the economy strengthening reduced
demand at a $29 billion seven-year note auction.  Ten-year note yields  rose  to the highest level in four days
as the government completed the third of $99 billion of note
auctions this week, with the final two sales drawing higher-
than-forecast yields and lower levels of bidding than at
previous offerings. Treasuries fell as flight-to-quality demand
dissipated amid attempts by officials in Europe to curb
financial contagion with a rescue package for banks in Ireland,
and concern about turmoil between North and South Korea abated.  “The tone had changed so quickly, so those encouraged by
problems in Europe being a catalyst for people buying Treasuries
didn’t pan out,” said  John Spinello , chief technical strategist
in New York at Jefferies Group Inc., one of 18 primary dealers
that are required to bid at Treasury auctions. “It’s a
difficult week to underwrite with the short week and 10s running
from 2.97 percent to 2.72 percent yesterday. You had people who
were looking for value not getting it because the market had
such a strong move, so they backed away.”  The yield on the current seven-year note rose 15 basis
points to 2.22 percent at 5:03 p.m. in New York, according to
BGCantor Market Data. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The benchmark 10-year note yield increased 14 basis points
to 2.91 percent, the highest since Nov. 18. Yesterday, it
touched 2.73 percent.  Swap Spreads  U.S. interest-rate swap spreads widened as the London
interbank offering rate rose amid increased concerns about the
risk of further weakening of European bank credit quality,  Neela Gollapudi , an interest-rate strategist at Citigroup Inc.’s
Citigroup Global Markets unit, said in a telephone interview.  Higher libor rates and wider swap spreads relate to “some
of the continued stresses in sovereign credit” as well as
concern about increased risks to banks from German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel ’s proposal to force investors to accept tougher
terms on government bond purchases in potential restructurings,
Gollapudi said.  “If bondholders have to share the pain, and a lot of this
paper is held by European banks, the question then becomes, do
they have enough capital,” he said.  Auction Results  The seven-year note sale drew a yield of 2.253 percent,
compared with the average forecast of 2.24 percent in a
Bloomberg News survey of eight of the primary dealers. The  bid-
to-cover  ratio, which gauges demand by comparing total bids with
the amount offered, was 2.63, the lowest since March.  The last Treasury seven-year note auction, a $29 billion
offering Oct. 28, drew a yield of 1.97 percent, which was the
lowest on record. The bid-to-cover ratio was 3.06, the highest
since at least February 2009, when the Treasury revived the
security after a 16-year hiatus.  A $35 billion five-year auction yesterday drew a yield of
1.411 percent, compared with a forecast of 1.404 percent in a
survey of eight primary dealers. The sale attracted  bids  for
2.65 times the amount available, the lowest since June.  Treasuries have returned 7.9 percent this year, compared
with 3 percent for the debt of nations that share the euro,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. U.S. debt is
benefiting from its status as a haven from financial and
political turbulence. They climbed yesterday as North and South
Korea exchanged artillery fire.  Economic Turn  Treasuries declined earlier as jobless claims declined by
34,000 to 407,000 in the week ended Nov. 20, Labor Department
figures showed today in Washington. The median projection of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a drop to
435,000.  “It’s not surprising 10s want to test support at 2.85
percent,”  Jim Vogel , head of agency debt research at FTN
Financial in Memphis, Tennessee, wrote in a note to clients. The
weekly claims are well under expectations and as close to
400,000 as seen in several years, Vogel wrote.  Consumer spending rose in October for a fifth month as a
rebound in incomes lifted the biggest part of the U.S. economy
at the start of the final quarter of 2010.  Household purchases advanced 0.4 percent after a 0.3
percent gain in September that was larger than previously
estimated, Commerce Department figures showed today. Incomes
climbed 0.5 percent and the Federal Reserve’s preferred measure
of inflation was little changed, capping the smallest 12-month
gain since records began five decades ago.  Confidence among U.S. consumers increased more than
forecast in November to the highest level in five months,
indicating the biggest part of the economy may pick up. The
Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index of consumer
sentiment rose to 71.6 during the month from 67.7 in October.
Economists projected a reading of 69.5, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  The Fed will buy Treasuries of varying maturities each day
next week beginning Nov. 29 and the first four days of the
following week. The Fed has purchased $48 billion in Treasuries
as part of its second round of quantitative easing launched Nov.
12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  