-- Record Hong Kong IPOs Falter as Bluestar, China Datang Suspend Stock Sales
-- B y   F o x   H u
-- 2010-11-25T10:12:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/record-hong-kong-ipos-falter-as-bluestar-china-datang-suspend-stock-sales.html
Hong Kong’s record run of initial
public offerings is faltering as tumbling stock prices prompted
 Bluestar Adisseo Nutrition Group  and  China Datang Corp.  to delay
or withdraw a maximum $2.6 billion of share sales.  Bluestar Adisseo , the animal-nutrition producer backed by
Blackstone Group LP, said it withdrew its IPO because of
“continued and excessive” market volatility. Market conditions
are affecting the valuation of Datang’s renewable energy unit,
causing it to delay a share-sale road show scheduled for this
week, said two people with knowledge of the plan who declined to
be identified because the information is confidential.  The benchmark Hang Seng Index slumped 7.7 percent from its
Nov. 8 high as China stepped up measures to contain inflation
and Ireland accepted a European Union-led bailout. The slump may
curb 2010’s record $44 billion of initial sales by 75 companies
including Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. and AIA Group Ltd.  “Since the market started to correct, investors started to
think twice about IPOs,” said  Alex Au , managing director of
Richland Capital Management Ltd. in Hong Kong, which oversees
$300 million of assets. “China tightening has been a big
concern in the market, and Europe debt is certainly also a big
macro event. It’s making people lower their risk appetite.”  Twenty-one of the stocks listed in Hong Kong this year have
declined since debut by as much as 36 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  United Co. Rusal , the world’s largest
aluminum producer, lost 12 percent since raising HK$17.4 billion
($2.2 billion) in January.  Rongsheng Debut  Agricultural Bank has climbed  28 percent  since selling
HK$93.5 billion of shares in July, while insurer  AIA  has
advanced 15 percent since its HK$159.1 billion IPO last month.  China Rongsheng Heavy Industries Group Holdings Ltd ., the
fourth-biggest offering in Hong Kong this year, has sunk 12
percent from its Nov. 19 debut. The nation’s biggest shipyard
outside state control sold HK$14 billion of shares at about 30
times this year’s estimated earnings, compared with a multiple
of 27 for China Shipbuilding Industry Co., the nation’s biggest
maker of vessel equipment.  “In the last few months, companies that have tapped the
market have gotten very good valuations and raised a lot of
money,” said  Andy Mantel , founder and chief executive officer
of Pacific Sun Investment Management Ltd. in Hong Kong. “It’s
not surprising that some have delayed because of the sheer
number of IPOs that are happening right now.”  ‘Not Worried’  Sateri Holdings Ltd.  and Greatview Aseptic Packaging Co.
said at separate media briefings in Hong Kong today that they
are pushing ahead with their IPO plans. Sateri, a Chinese
cellulose maker, is seeking $600 million and plans to price its
stock on Dec. 2 and start trading on Dec. 8, according to its
prospectus.  Greatview , a beverage packaging company based in
Beijing, is seeking about $214 million.  “I am not worried at all, no matter how the stock market
is affected,” Greatview’s CEO Jeff Bi told reporters via a
video conference. “If people stop drinking milk and juices,
then I will be worried.”  Stocks in the region declined yesterday, dragging the  MSCI
Asia Pacific Index  to a one-week low after North Korea shelled
South Korea and Standard & Poor’s lowered Ireland’s credit
rating.  China Policies  The MSCI index was little changed today and has fallen 3.5
percent from a two-year high set on Nov. 8 amid speculation
China will intensify efforts to curb inflation that grew last
month at the fastest pace in two years. Chinese policy makers
last week boosted the amount of money that lenders must set
aside for the fifth time this year.  The IPO delays won’t come “as any great surprise when we
look at what’s happened in the markets in China over the past
week or so,”  Michael Parker , senior analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co., said in Hong Kong.  China New Materials Holdings Ltd., a chemical maker in
eastern China, canceled its IPO press conference yesterday and
has delayed its Hong Kong offering for at least two days, two
people with knowledge of that sale said. Calls to the company’s
head office in Zibo city, Shandong province, weren’t answered.  Adisseo, based in Antony, France, canceled its IPO after
consulting with the banks managing the sale, the company said in
a statement to the Hong Kong stock exchange yesterday. The
company had been seeking about $1.56 billion in its IPO,
according to its IPO prospectus.  Blackstone Stake  Blackstone, the world’s largest private-equity company, has
a 20 percent stake in China National Bluestar Group Corp., which
owns Bluestar Adisseo, the prospectus said.  China Datang, the nation’s second-largest power producer,
had sought about $1 billion from selling shares in  China Datang
Corp. Renewable Power Co.  amid expectations demand for clean
energy will increase in the nation.  Huang Yuan, head of the news office at China Datang Corp.
in Beijing, didn’t answer calls.  The world’s fastest-growing major economy burns coal in
about 80 percent of its power plants and wants at least 15
percent of its energy to come from renewable resources by 2020.
About 17.5 percent of China Datang’s electricity generating
capacity comes from clean energy sources, it said last December.  In New York,  Syswin Inc.  slid 11 percent to $6.20 in its
first day of trading after the Beijing-based real-estate agency
reduced the size of its U.S. initial public offering by half.
Syswin sold 9.6 million American depositary receipts at $7 each
after cutting the offering from 12 million at $9.25 to $11.25,
government filings and data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Declines in the markets have also affected debt issues.
 Hongkong Electric Holdings Ltd.  delayed its dollar bond sale of
as much as $500 million because of tension on the Korean
peninsula, two people familiar with the matter said, at least
the third Asian company to postpone sales this week.  “With the market coming off, investors are becoming more
realistic,” said Richland Capital’s Au.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fox Hu  in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at 
 dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 