-- Three Dead After Gas Leak at Oil Refineries Haifa Plant, Israel Police Say
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2010-11-24T16:46:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/three-dead-after-gas-leak-at-oil-refineries-haifa-plant-isreal-police-say.html
Three workers were killed when toxic
gas leaked from the Haifa, Israel, processing plant of  Oil
Refineries Ltd. , the country’s biggest refiner, Israeli police
said today.  A fourth worker was in a serious condition, and at least
three other people were treated for exposure to the gas, a
police spokesman,  Micky Rosenfeld , said in a telephone
interview.  “The Oil Refineries facility has been closed down for
seasonal maintenance during the past month,” the company said
separately in an e-mailed statement. “As part of this operation
the workers went up on the gas facility in appropriate dress,
including masks. For reasons that are unclear at this moment,
they were injured from gas inhalation.”  The investigation into the incident “will check possible
technical failures, professional failures, and possible
violations  Minister of Industry, Trade and Labor  Binyamin Ben-Eliezer 
said he had warned about the plant’s safety risks and called for
it to be relocated.  “The facility is like a nuclear bomb and I have for years
warned about its dangers,” Ben-Eliezer told Israel’s Army
Radio. “If we arrive at the conclusion that the facility poses
a threat to life, we will shut it.”  The investigation into the incident “will check possible
technical failures, professional failures, and possible
violations of laws or safety regulations,” the ministry’s Chief
Labor Inspector Yoram Elazar said in a phone interview.  An Oil Refineries spokesman contacted by telephone declined
to say whether the company planned to delay the plant’s
reopening as a result of the fatal leak.  Maintenance  The company had been scheduled to complete a “turnaround”
at its Haifa units in the first 10 days of December, Chief
Executive Officer  Yashar Ben-Mordechai  told Bloomberg on Nov.
22. Work on units at the refinery, including a catalytic
regeneration plant and hydrogen facility, started at the end of
October.  The facility will be allowed to reopen only if it determined
that it poses no danger to the workers or surrounding area,  The refinery has the capacity to process 197,000 barrels of
crude oil a day, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Continuous catalytic regenerators, or reformers, make blending
components for gasoline.  The gas leak poses no danger to the surrounding area,
according to the Oil Refineries statement. Police said that no
residents had been relocated as a result of the incident.  Oil Refineries fell 0.3 percent to 228.3 shekels at the
4:30 p.m. close in Tel Aviv.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  