-- Regions Financial to ‘Earn Through’ Losses, CreditSights Says
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2010-11-24T17:25:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/regions-financial-can-earn-through-losses-creditsights-analysis-finds.html
Regions Financial Corp. , the Alabama
bank cut yesterday to below investment-grade by Standard &
Poor’s, has enough capital and funding to withstand loan losses,
according to research firm CreditSights Inc.  Regions, which replaced its risk managers last week, has
more than 1,700 branches and the biggest share of deposits in
Alabama, Tennessee and Mississippi, CreditSights said Nov. 22 in
a report. The Birmingham-based bank’s $95 billion of deposits
accounts for 82 percent of its liabilities, according to the
report.  “Regions’ multi-state branch footprint and solid core
deposit funding are critical franchise stabilizers that should
allow the company to earn through operating losses,” New York-
based  CreditSights  said. “Regions’ liquidity and capital
metrics are sufficient to manage through its credit problems.”  Inflows to non-performing assets rose to $1.4 billion in
the third quarter after three consecutive periods of declines,
CreditSights said. Construction and commercial real estate
loans, 21 percent of the total, are the “primary asset quality
problem,” CreditSights said.  Evelyn Mitchell , a spokeswoman at Regions, declined to
comment on the CreditSights report.  Regions’ $500 million of 7 percent notes due in March 2011
fell 0.25 cent to 98.75 cents on the dollar yesterday, the
lowest since December 2009, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
The securities have fallen 2.75 cents since Oct. 21.  ‘Manageable’ Debt  The lender has $14.3 billion in long-term borrowing as of
Sept. 30, according to a  filing . The parent company has $5
billion of debt maturing between the fourth quarter of 2010 and
the end of 2011, CreditSights said, which “should be
manageable.”  CreditSights has an “overweight” on Regions debt and
rates the lender BBB-, compared with BB+ for S&P and Ba3 by
Moody’s Investors Service. Last week, Regions removed three
managers who oversaw risk and troubled assets.  “These departures are not the result of any determination
with regard to additional problem loan migration, loan-loss
reserves or charge-offs,” Chief Executive Officer  Grayson Hall 
said at the time in a statement. “We are committed to having a
strong leadership team in risk management and to continuing to
de-risk our balance sheet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Detrixhe  in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  