-- Rice Prices May Gain as Thailand Cuts Crop Outlook on Floods, Theera Says
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2010-11-24T09:50:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/rice-prices-may-gain-as-thailand-cuts-crop-outlook-on-floods-theera-says.html
Thailand, the world’s biggest rice
exporter, said output from the nation’s main harvest may fall
below its previous estimate as the worst floods in five decades
devastated crops, supporting prices of Asia’s staple food.  “This could be the worst damage to rice crops since the
2006 floods,”  Theera Wongsamut , Agriculture and Cooperatives
minister, said in an interview in Bangkok. Output of rough rice
from the main crop, which began harvesting in October and
accounts for 70 percent of Thailand’s total production, may fall
by 7 percent from the previous year, he said.  Storms and flooding since July have destroyed rice crops in
Thailand, Vietnam and Pakistan, the three biggest shippers,
driving futures to this year’s high of $15.59 per 100 pounds on
Nov. 9 on the Chicago Board of Trade.  World food prices  climbed
to the highest level in more than two years in October as the
cost of cereals, cooking oils and sugar surged, the United
Nations’ Food & Agriculture Organization said.  Production from the main crop is estimated to decline by
1.6 million metric tons to 21.66 million tons, Theera said. That
compares with the ministry’s Nov. 9 forecast of 22.34 million.  Rice futures in Chicago soared 63 percent from this year’s
low on June 30 through Nov. 9 as flooding ravaged Asian crops
and on speculation that dry weather in the U.S. may force the
fourth-largest shipper to miss a forecast for record production.
The January-delivery contract gained 0.5 percent to $13.47 at
5:31 p.m. Singapore time.  Thai Prices  Thai rice-export prices, the benchmark for Asia, declined
0.2 percent, the first drop in four weeks, to $551 a ton as a
weaker local currency made the grain cheaper for overseas
buyers, according to the Thai Rice Exporters Association. The
price fell from an eight-month high of $552 the previous week.  The Thai price may climb as high as $600, as China appears
to be buying a lot of grade-B Thai white rice and double-
polished rice, which is unusual at this time of year, Mamadou
Ciss, chief executive officer of Singapore-based Hermes
Investments Pte. and a rice broker since 1984, said in an e-
mail.  “I wouldn’t be surprised if we wake up in a month and find
out China has bought 1 million tons,” Ciss said. “In that
case, the price may easily go to $650 or $700."  Growth Constraints  The flooding across two-thirds of Thailand is the worst in
five decades and may slash the country’s economic growth by 0.3
percentage point this year to 7.9 percent, state planning agency
the National Economic and Social Development Board said on Nov.
22.  About 11 million rai (4.3 million acres) of agricultural
land, equivalent to 8.5 percent of the total, were inundated.
Floods deluged approximately 8.3 million rai of rice land,
equivalent to 15 percent of the total area for main-crop
production, Theera said.  ‘‘About 4 million rai of rice crops are estimated to be
entirely devastated,’’ Theera said. Actual damage levels will be
finalized around the middle of December, he said.  Second-crop production, which begins in April, may rise to
9.3 million tons from 8.26 million tons last year, when drought
caused by the El Nino weather pattern and the spread of
planthoppers, insects that kill cotton plants and also spread
disease, hurt production, he said.  La Nina  Output from the second crop will help bring the total
harvest this year to 31 million tons, Theera said. That compares
with 31.5 million tons last year.  ‘‘This will be adequate for domestic consumption and
exports,’’ Theera said. The country annually consumes about 18
million tons of the grain.  The Thai floods have spread to 51 provinces since October,
killing 241 people and affecting at least 8.7 million residents,
according to the Department of Disaster Prevention & Mitigation.
Floodwaters have receded in 37 provinces, it said.  A La Nina weather event has brought heavier-than-usual
rainfall to parts of Asia this year, deluging farms and mines in
Southeast Asia, driving rubber futures to a 30-year high and
sending tin prices to a record. Typhoon Megi also destroyed rice
crops in October in the Philippines, the world’s biggest buyer.  The U.S. Department of Agriculture  cut  its estimate for
global milled-rice output to 452.5 million tons on Oct. 8,
171,000 tons short of forecast demand. The global deficit, the
first in four years, may be wider as typhoons and flooding hit
Southeast Asia days after the USDA released that estimate.  Global milled output may be 450 million tons in the
2010-2011 season, 10 million tons less than previously forecast,
Samarendu Mohanty, a senior economist at the  International Rice
Research Institute , said Nov. 9. The ‘‘supply situation is
definitely very tight this year and next year,’’ he said.  Still,  Vietnam , the world’s second-largest exporter,
shipped a record 6.11 million tons from Jan. 1 to Nov. 19
because of a larger stockpile carried over from the previous
year, the Vietnam Food Association said Nov. 22. That compares
with shipments of 6.05 million tons for the whole of 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Supunnabul Suwannakij  in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole in Singapore at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  