-- Rio de Janeiro Under Bomb Scare After Car Attacks as Police Boost Security
-- B y   C a r l o s   C a m i n a d a
-- 2010-11-24T20:13:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/rio-faces-bomb-scare-cars-on-fire-as-police-steps-up-security-in-favelas.html
Rio de Janeiro police blocked
streets in the  Ipanema  and Copacabana areas earlier today
because of suspected bombs and 29 vehicles were set ablaze in
the outskirts in four days amid a crackdown on organized crime.  Two hand-made bombs, one Molotov cocktail and one grenade
have been seized since last night,  Military Police  Spokesman
Colonel Lima Castro told reporters today. Police have arrested
over 150 people in four days and 21 died in connection with
raids. Boxes suspected of containing bombs were reported in the
two beach-side neighborhoods today and later found not to hold
any explosives, the Civil Police said in a statement.  Police in Rio, which will host the 2014 soccer World Cup
and the 2016 summer Olympics, have taken back 15 shanty towns,
or favelas, from control of drug dealers since December 2008 and
set up small police departments in them, according to the state
security department’s website. More than 1,000 military police
were deployed to 27 favelas today, Castro said.  “It’s time to let them know we will not backtrack from our
purpose,” Rio de Janeiro State Security Secretary Jose Beltrame
said in televised comments. “This is not going to make us move
away.”  Images of vehicles on fire were broadcasted by  Globo  TV all
day. Castro said 10 cars, five buses and one van were set ablaze
last night and this morning. Another 13 vehicles had been burned
in the previous three days, he said.  The city’s two main rival criminal organizations, based in
the Rocinha and Morro do Alemao favelas, may unite to react to
growing police efforts to take over shanty towns, Beltrame said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carlos Caminada in Sao Paulo at 
 ccaminada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  