-- Rubber Futures Decline on China's Price-Cooling Moves, Tension Over Korea
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2010-11-24T07:50:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/rubber-futures-decline-on-china-s-credit-crackdown-north-korean-attack.html
Rubber declined for the first time
in four days on concern that China’s measures to tame inflation
may curb demand from the world’s largest user and after North
Korea attacked South Korea, weakening investor risk appetite.  April-delivery rubber on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange
slumped as much as 3.6 percent to 356.4 yen per kilogram ($4,283
a metric ton) before settling at 359.5 yen. It also dropped as
Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services cut Ireland’s credit rating,
raising concern that Europe’s debt crisis may stall the region’s
economic recovery. The market was closed yesterday for a holiday.  China will crack down on the use of loan funds in
speculation, hoarding and artificially inflating prices of
agricultural products,  the China Banking Regulatory Commission 
said on Nov. 22, sending rubber futures in Shanghai tumbling by
the daily limit yesterday. South Korea’s  stocks  and currency
sank after North Korea fired artillery, killing two soldiers.  “Rubber was sold as tension in Korea sapped investor
appetite for risk assets,”  Shuji Sugata , research manager at
Mitsubishi Corp. Futures Ltd. in Tokyo, said today by phone.
“Caution about China’s steps to curb inflation was another drag
on rubber futures.”  May-delivery rubber fell as much as 2.9 percent to 31,300
yuan ($4,707) a ton before gaining 0.2 percent to close at
32,285 yuan on the Shanghai Futures Exchange. The contract
reached a record 38,920 yuan on Nov. 11.  China, the biggest buyer, ordered banks on Nov. 19 to set
aside larger reserves for the second time in two weeks. The move
to contain excess liquidity came after Premier  Wen Jiabao  held a
Cabinet meeting earlier in the week and called for a crackdown
on speculation in agricultural goods, saying price controls may
be needed on “daily necessities.”  China Controls  China’s cabinet said last week it may impose temporary
price controls after inflation gained the most since September
2008 and food prices climbed 10.1 percent.  Rubber in Tokyo has climbed 32 percent this year as heavy
rain in Thailand, Indonesia and Malaysia, the top three growers,
disrupted tapping and lowered production.  The  cash price  of natural rubber in Thailand, the largest
producer and exporter, fell 1.1 percent to 131.25 baht ($4.36)
per kilogram today as worries over China attempt to curb
inflation and Ireland debt crisis prompted investors to reduce
position in agricultural contracts, according to  the Rubber
Research Institute of Thailand . The downside is limited because
of supply shortage from major producers, it said. Thai price
yesterday reached a record 132.75 baht per kilogram.  Ireland’s debt rating was lowered two steps by Standard &
Poor’s, with a negative outlook, as the nation’s bailout of its
banking system is set to escalate the government’s borrowing
needs. Ireland is hammering out an aid package with the EU and
the International Monetary Fund to rescue its banking system.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aya Takada  in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net 
 Supunnabul Suwannakij  in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  