-- Ruling Coalition Wins Local Elections in India's Turnaround State of Bihar
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2010-11-24T12:46:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/ruling-coalition-wins-local-elections-in-india-s-turnaround-state-of-bihar.html
The ruling coalition in India’s
eastern state of Bihar was reelected giving Chief Minister
 Nitish Kumar  a mandate to continue development programs aimed at
boosting growth in one of the nation’s poorest provinces.  Kumar’s Janata Dal (United)-led coalition won 131 seats and
was ahead in 73 of the 243 constituencies, according to the
 website  of India’s Election Commission. The grouping previously
had 143 seats.  By curbing crime, repairing as many as 5,400 kilometers
(3,356 miles) of roads and raising spending on education and
health, Kumar’s government boosted economic growth to an annual
average of 10.7 percent in the four years to March 2009,
according to the  World Bank . Expansion averaged 4.5 percent in
the previous four-year period.  “The question before the people of Bihar was whether they
will move ahead or take the state back to darkness,” Kumar, 59,
said in a televised press conference from Patna, the capital of
the state. “They decided to move ahead. It’s a victory for
development.”  The state election results signal a shift in favor of
development from the politics of caste, said Shaiba Gupta,
member-secretary at the Patna-based Asian Development Research
Institute.  “It’s an endorsement for development programs,” he said.
“It gives new life and hope to the state.”  Kumar’s main challenger was Lalu Prasad, 62, a former
federal rail minister, whose Rashtriya Janata Dal campaigns for
the empowerment of lower-caste Hindus and the minority Muslim
community. Prasad’s party, which ruled the state for 15 years up
to November 2005, won 13 seats and was leading in 10, the
Election Commission said.  Turnaround Signs  In a March report, the World Bank said signs of a
 turnaround  in Bihar are visible with more children attending
school, people getting immunized and improving law and order.  While Bihar has 8.5 percent of India’s population, it
accounts for 1.6 percent of the country’s gross domestic product,
according to the World Bank. Landless farm laborers constitute
nearly half the workforce, compared with 27 percent in the rest
of the country. About 52 percent of Bihar’s 83 million people --
more than the population of Germany -- are illiterate. The
state’s per capita income in the year to March 2008 was a third
of the national average.  Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s  Congress Party  won four
seats and was leading in one, according to the commission’s
website. The government in Bihar rules in a coalition with the
main federal opposition  Bharatiya Janata Party .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bibhudatta Pradhan  in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at   hgovind@bloomberg.net  