-- Rusal to Start Alloys Production Venture, Buy Into a Chinese Metals Trader
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2010-11-24T08:26:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/rusal-to-buy-33-of-china-north-industries-affiliate-form-alloy-venture.html
United Co. Rusal , the world’s
largest aluminum producer, agreed to create an alloys production
venture with  China North Industries Corp.  and buy a stake in a
trading unit as it seeks access to Asia’s biggest economy.  Rusal, controlled by Russian billionaire  Oleg Deripaska ,
will own at least 51 percent of the venture that will make and
sell the material used to make cans and wheels, the Moscow-based
company said today in an e-mailed statement.  In line with Deripaska’s target of expanding Rusal sales in
Asia to 30 percent of its total this year, from 20 percent in
2009, the aluminum maker will buy shares of a trading unit of
China North, also known as Norinco. The Russian company said it
will take a 33 percent stake in Shenzhen North Investment Corp.,
a distributor of primary aluminum in China and Southeast Asia.  Deripaska has tapped Asia, and China in particular, to
support his businesses during the global economic crisis and
help expand assets that range from cement makers to auto plants
and electricity stations. The billionaire is seeking to sell
shares in two more companies in Hong Kong after Rusal raised
$2.24 billion in the city in an initial public offering this
year, the first Russian company to do so.  “The Asian market is one of the company’s top priorities
and is strategically important in terms of the promotional
support behind our products,” Deripaska said in today’s
statement.  Rusal will provide the facilities and metal at its plants,
which are based mainly in Siberia, close to China, to commission
alloys production with Norinco. The Chinese partner will supply
equipment and working capital, Rusal said.  Board Seats  A stake in the trader will give Rusal two board seats at
the Norinco unit, including the chance to nominate its chairman,
and also two members of the management team. The deal is subject
to Chinese regulatory approval, Rusal said.  Rusal’s sales to China, “small” this year, will rise once
the company is qualified to sell on the Shanghai Metal Exchange,
which is expected by the end of this year, Rusal’s First Deputy
Chief Executive Officer  Vladislav Soloviev  said Sept 21. China
can account for as much as half of Rusal’s Asian sales, he said.
China’s demand growth rate is the fastest, Deripaska said last
week.  Rusal expects to produce 4.1 million metric tons of aluminum
next year, with the alloy output rising to 1.5 million tons from
1.3 million tons.  Rusal agreed last year with Norinco to supply Asia with as
much as 2 million metric tons of aluminum alloys, valued at more
than $4 billion, a year from its Siberian plants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yuriy Humber  in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs in Sydney at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  