-- Russia Adds Canadian Dollar to Reserves, Australian Currency May Be Next
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   P a u l   A b e l s k y
-- 2010-11-25T10:58:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/russia-adds-canadian-dollar-to-reserves-eyes-other-currencies.html
Russia has started adding the
Canadian dollar to its  international reserves  and may increase
those holdings in coming months, said  Alexei Ulyukayev , first
deputy chairman of Russia’s central bank.  “We have recently begun investing in assets denominated in
the Canadian dollar,” Ulyukayev, 54, said in an interview
yesterday in Moscow. “So far, the amounts are very small, but
there’s perhaps potential for increasing our holdings.”  Russia aims to diversify its reserves, the world’s third
biggest, and promote the use of regional currencies in
international trade and finance to reduce risks posed by the
dominance of the U.S. dollar. The central bank also plans to
increase gold holdings and may consider including other
currencies, including the Australian dollar.  The reserves comprise 47 percent U.S. dollars, 41 percent
euros, 10 percent British pounds, 2 percent Japanese yen and a
small amount in Swiss francs. The central bank has reduced the
U.S. currency’s weight from 50 percent of the total in 2006,
when euros accounted for 40 percent, with yen and pounds
accounting for the rest.  Reserves fell to $489.3 billion as of Nov. 19, the central
bank  said  on its website today. The stockpile has gained more
than 30 percent from a low of $376.1 billion in March 2009. Bank
Rossii drained the reserves by more than a third to manage its
devaluation of the ruble during the credit crisis.  Best Performer  Ulyukayev’s comments helped make Canada’s dollar the best
performer among the 16 most-traded U.S. dollar counterparts
yesterday. The currency appreciated as much as 1.5 percent, the
biggest intraday move since Sept. 1, to C$1.0092 per U.S.
dollar. It traded at C$1.0099 at 5 p.m. in Toronto yesterday,
compared with C$1.0247 on Nov. 23. One Canadian dollar buys
99.02 U.S. cents.  The Canadian dollar’s share of Russia’s reserves, which
rank behind only China and Japan, is so small it hasn’t yet
affected currency allocations, Ulyukayev said.  “Within several months we may be able to speak about more
substantial volumes and any changes in the structure” of the
reserves, he said.  Canada’s dollar, dubbed the loonie after the aquatic bird
on the country’s dollar coin, has gained 4.2 percent against the
U.S. dollar this year on increasing demand for higher-yielding
assets and raw materials. Commodities generate about half of the
country’s export revenue.  ‘Theoretical Sense’  Bank Rossii is considering including the Australian dollar
“in the list of currencies allowed for reserve allocation,”
Ulyukayev said. Australia’s currency, also linked to
commodities, has risen 9.6 percent against the dollar this year.  “We are considering several other currencies, but we are
looking at them more in a theoretical sense than a practical
one,” Ulyukayev said.  There is growing support for a new global currency system
that is less reliant on the dollar as a reserve currency, South
African Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  told reporters in
Pretoria on Nov. 15. While the dollar’s position “‘has been
shaking,” there is no other currency that would serve as an
alternative, Japan’s Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said Nov. 19.  The greenback will remain the “leading” global reserve
currency even as new rivals appear, Ulyukayev said.  Dollar Leads  “There is competition and it looks like it will intensify
among currencies that play the role of global and regional
reserve currencies,” Ulyukayev said. “I think the dollar will
be leading in this competition,” given the U.S.’s share of the
global economy and its highly developed financial markets.  Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  renewed his drive to
reduce the dollar’s dominance and transform Moscow into a global
financial hub, promoting the ruble as a reserve currency in his
speech at the St. Petersburg Economic Forum in June.  The ruble has become a “regional reserve currency for the
countries of the former Soviet Union” and nations with “a
traditionally large share of trade with Russia,” Ulyukayev
said. “This is seen in increasing volumes of settlements in
rubles” and ruble-denominated Eurobond issues by borrowers
outside Russia, he said.  China’s ‘Discrepancy’  China, the world’s fastest-growing major economy, started
allowing the yuan to trade against the ruble on Nov. 22 to help
internationalize the Chinese currency. Russian Prime Minister
 Vladimir Putin  said this week that the yuan would start trading
on Russian exchanges next month as the two countries use local
currencies in bilateral trade.  The Chinese yuan will become a global reserve currency once
it becomes fully convertible, Ulyukayev said. The yuan is
allowed to trade 0.5 percent on either side of a daily fixing
rate to the dollar as set by the central bank.  “There is a discrepancy between China’s share of global
trade, GDP and the lack of convertibility” of its currency,
Ulyukayev said. “If this discrepancy will be overcome quickly,
the yuan will enter their ranks.”  Brazil’s real is unlikely to become a global reserve
currency in the “near future,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Levitov  in Moscow at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  