-- SABMiller Acquires Argentina Brewer CASA Isenbeck; Doesn't Disclose Terms
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2010-11-24T11:19:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/sabmiller-acquires-argentina-brewer-casa-isenbeck-update1-.html
SABMiller Plc , the world’s second-
biggest brewer by volume, bought the owner of Argentina’s
Isenbeck and Warsteiner beer brands, entering a market which is
dominated by larger rival Anheuser-Busch InBev NV.  Cerveceria Argentina S.A. Isenbeck is the third-largest
brewer in Argentina and sold 600,000 hectoliters of beer in
2009,  SABMiller  said today in a statement. AB InBev sold 12.86
million hectolitres of beer in Argentina in 2009, giving it 74
percent of the market, according to the company’s website.  “Its foray into an AB InBev-dominated territory shows the
confidence SAB has in its Latin American division,”  Simon Hales , an analyst at Evolution Securities in London, wrote in a
report today. He has a “buy”  rating  on SABMiller stock.  SABMiller, the maker of Grolsch and Peroni beers, last week
reported first-half profit that beat analyst estimates because
of growth in emerging markets including Latin America, its
biggest market. The brewer is market leader in six Latin
American countries including Colombia, Peru and Ecuador.  Today’s acquisition, terms of which weren’t disclosed, is
likely to prompt speculation that SABMiller may also seek to
enter Brazil, according to Evolution’s Hales.  AB InBev controlled 69 percent of Brazilian beer sales in
2009 through its Cia. de Bebidas das Americas unit. The country
has seen the fastest economic growth in more than two decades,
and its gross domestic product may expand 7.6 percent this year,
according to a central bank survey of about 100 economists.  Adjacent Markets  SABMiller will “explore the potential in Argentina for its
premium brands,” according to spokesman  Nigel Fairbrass . CASA
Isenbeck may allow the brewer to sell its beers in “adjacent
markets” to Argentina, including Paraguay, Uruguay and the
south of Brazil, Latin America’s biggest beer market, he said.  “The group is likely to concentrate its strategic efforts
on growing share of premium segment in Argentina,” Hales said.
“Successes and learnings from this strategy could be used to
lay foundations for a move into the Brazilian premium segment.”  SABMiller acquired CASA Isenbeck from Warsteiner Group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Clementine Fletcher  in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 