-- SAC `Eat-What-You-Kill' Culture Bred Hedge Funds Under Scrutiny
-- B y   A n t h o n y   E f f i n g e r
-- 2010-11-24T16:07:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/sac-eat-what-you-kill-culture-bred-hedge-funds-under-regulator-scrutiny.html
SAC Capital Advisors LP, the firm
that spawned several of the hedge funds tied to investigations
by U.S. regulators, encourages competition.  Its founder, 54-year-old  Steven A. Cohen , hires traders and
gives them some SAC money to manage on their own, according to
former employees. If they do well, they get more money to manage
and a green light to hire analysts to help research stocks. If
they do poorly, they’re out. The result is a firm composed of
fiercely competitive pods, with many of the best managers
eventually leaving to start their own firms, the former
employees say.  Now, part of SAC’s diaspora is under scrutiny by U.S.
authorities because of an insider trading probe. Level Global
Investors LP and Diamondback Capital Management LLC, two
Connecticut firms founded by former SAC traders, were among
funds raided by federal agents looking for documents for
Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara.  SAC, based in Stamford,
Connecticut, received a very broad request for information,
according to a person familiar with the firm. None of the funds
have been accused of wrongdoing.  “That eat-what-you-kill culture is highly competitive,”
said Craig Lilly, an attorney at Greenberg Traurig LLP in East
Palo Alto, California, whose clients include hedge funds. “A
set-up where you have traders running their own portfolios
instead of feeding into a centralized investment may make it
more tempting for them to cut corners.”  Galleon Case  SAC spokesman  Jonathan Gasthalter  declined to comment on
the subpoena.  Steve Bruce , a spokesman for Diamondback, and  Andy Merrill , a spokesman for Level Global, confirmed that the FBI
had searched their offices and said their firms are cooperating
in the investigation.  The raids follow testimony by a former UBS AG investment
banker at a criminal trial in September that he “provided
confidential information” to a friend who worked as an analyst
at SAC.  Last year,  Richard Choo-Beng Lee , pleaded guilty to insider
trading at Spherix Capital LLC, a firm he co-founded after
leaving SAC. Lee, a native of Malaysia, is cooperating with
investigators in their probe of Galleon Group LLC, the New York-
based hedge fund that shuttered after its billionaire founder
run by Raj Rajaratnam was charged with insider-trading.
Rajaratnam has denied any wrongdoing.  Another fund that was raided this week, Loch Capital
Management in Boston, had no apparent ties to SAC.  ‘Larger Agenda’  “It appears as if the government is pursuing a larger
agenda,” said  Peter Rup , chief investment officer at Artemis
Wealth Advisors LLC, a New York-based firm that allocates money
to hedge funds for clients. “The three firms raided are not
necessarily a direct target of the investigation.”  Diamondback has a similar structure to SAC. The fund
employs traders to run their own portfolios, while two of the
founders,  Lawrence Sapanski  and  Rich Schimel , both former SAC
managers, oversee a central portfolio that takes trading ideas
they deem to have the best chances of profiting, according to a
letter sent to Diamondback investors.  A third Diamondback founder, Chad Loweth, left earlier this
year. He had also worked at SAC. Schimel, 42, is Cohen’s brother
in-law.  SAC hadn’t been subpoenaed as of Nov. 4 in relation to the
government’s probe of Galleon, the firm’s lawyer, Martin Klotz,
said that day. Klotz had been summoned as a government witness
in the criminal trial of Milton Balkany, a Brooklyn rabbi who
was convicted six days later of trying to extort $4 million from
SAC.  Compliance Measures  Asked by a prosecutor whether “SAC or Mr. Cohen himself
was under investigation in the Galleon case,” Klotz said no.
“We did not receive subpoenas,” Klotz testified in Manhattan
federal court. “We did not receive inquiries from anybody in
the government in connection with that investigation.”  SAC investors say the firm takes strong measures to prevent
traders from dealing on insider information. Cohen’s staff of
800 included 20 legal and compliance workers as of February,
according to investors who spoke on condition of anonymity for a
profile of Cohen and SAC that appeared in the April issue of
Bloomberg Markets magazine.  Among other things, those workers monitor company e-mails,
including those sent and received by Cohen.  Harvey Pitt , former
chairman of the SEC, and Stephen Cutler, former head of the
regulator’s enforcement unit, have held workshops with SAC
employees about complying with SEC rules.  One former SAC manager who started his own fund in New York
said he never saw Cohen or anyone else at SAC trade on inside
information or do anything else illegal. Speculation about
illegal trading has dogged Cohen for years, the manager said,
and that has made the firm extra careful, he said.  Sunday Quizzes  Cohen, sitting in the middle of a trading floor in
Stamford, Connecticut, drives his groups hard, former employees
said. One, who declined to be named, quit after working every
Sunday for a whole summer. Cohen talked to his portfolio
managers and analysts every Sunday, quizzing them on their stock
holdings, to prepare for the coming week.  Should the Securities and Exchange Commission file a civil
lawsuit alleging insider trading by the firm’s traders, SAC or
Cohen would have difficulty defending themselves by citing only
the structure of the firm, said Tom Dewey, a partner at Dewey
Pegno & Kramarsky LLP in New York.  “It would not help that much because they would likely
have a duty to supervise the traders,” Dewey said in an
interview today. That defense would have a better chance of
success in a criminal insider trading case against SAC or Cohen,
where the government’s burden of proving that they knowingly
broke the law is higher, Dewey said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anthony Effinger  in Portland, Oregon, at 
 aeffinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  