-- Salgado Dismisses Bailout Risk as Borrowing Costs Surge to Euro-Era Record
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2010-11-24T10:17:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/salgado-dismisses-bailout-risk-as-borrowing-costs-surge-to-euro-era-record.html
Spanish Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  said there’s “absolutely” no risk the country will
need an international bailout as its borrowing costs compared
with Germany’s surged to a euro-era record.  Asked in an interview on  Punto Radio  in Madrid if Spain
risked having to seek a rescue like Ireland or Greece, Salgado
said “absolutely not.” The euro faces “speculative attacks”
which Spain is in the “best conditions to resist,” she said.  Spain’s 10-year bond yield surged 20 basis points to 5.12
percent, pushing the spread over German bunds to the widest
since the euro was created in 1999, as Ireland’s bailout
prompted speculation that Portugal and Spain may also need help.
Irish yields jumped 28 basis points to 8.93 percent after the
nation’s credit rating was cut two levels by Standard & Poor’s,
and Portuguese yields rose 26 basis points to 7.32 percent.  Ireland this week became the first nation to seek to tap
the euro region’s 750 billion-euro ($1 trillion) rescue fund
that was set up in May after Greece’s near-default. Ireland
asked for help after the cost of saving its financial industry
swelled the budget deficit to an estimated 32 percent of gross
domestic product, 10 times the European Union’s limit.  “Our financial sector has always had the Bank of Spain’s
supervision and regulation, which is what has probably been
missing in Ireland,”  Salgado  said today. “We have a solid
financial sector, and we should remember that it’s the financial
sector that’s provoking the difficult situation in Ireland.”  No New Measures  The cost of insuring Spanish debt against default increased
9 basis points today to a record of 310, according to CMA in
London. The  Ibex-35  share index in Madrid fell 0.4 percent to
9,652 points, after a loss of 3.1 percent yesterday.  Spain’s government said yesterday it would stick to its
austerity measures, the deepest in at least three decades, and
not take new steps to stem contagion. The budget cuts and
overhauls to pension and labor rules strengthen the country
against market turmoil, Salgado said, adding that the crisis
would have been “more devastating” without the euro.  Spain’s central  government  budget deficit narrowed by
almost half in the first 10 months of the year, the Finance
Ministry said yesterday, and Deputy Finance Minister  Carlos Ocana  said the regional administrations’ finances were also “on
track.” The government has pledged to cut the overall deficit
to 6 percent of GDP next year from 11.1 percent in 2009 and has
slashed public wages to do so.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma Ross-Thomas  in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  