-- Genzyme Meets First Deadline on Manufacturing Changes
-- B y   T o m   R a n d a l l
-- 2010-11-24T21:12:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/sanofi-buyout-target-genzyme-meets-first-deadline-on-manufacturing-changes.html
Genzyme Corp. , the biotechnology
company pursued in a hostile takeover by French drugmaker
 Sanofi-Aventis SA , said it met a deadline to move operations for
U.S. medicines following manufacturing glitches.  Production for four drugs at the Allston, Massachusetts,
plant have been moved to Waterford, Ireland, and to an outside
manufacturer, meeting the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
deadline of Nov. 28, Genzyme said in a statement. The company
said it’s working with regulators to meet an Aug. 31 deadline to
halt manufacturing in Allston for drugs sold outside the U.S.  Paris-based Sanofi, France’s largest drugmaker, bid $69 a
share, or about $18.5 billion, in August to buy Genzyme, and
took the offer directly to stockholders in October after the
company spurned the bid as too low. Sanofi may increase its
offer now that Genzyme’s manufacturing fixes are “on track,”
said  Michael Yee , an analyst with RBC Capital Markets.  “The next step is a slightly higher Sanofi bid to the low
$70s,” Yee, based in New York, said in a research note today.
“A final deal could be done in mid-2011.”  Genzyme rose $1.06, or 1.5 percent, to $71.81 at 4 p.m. in
Nasdaq Stock Market composite  trading . The stock has jumped 47
percent this year. Sanofi increased less than a percent to 48.49
euros in Paris trading, and has lost 12 percent this year.  The FDA asked Genzyme to make changes at the Allston plant
after a virus contamination. Manufacturing glitches caused
shortages of the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based biotech’s top-
selling drugs, driving shares down as much as much as 43 percent
from a 2008 high.  Sanofi’s tender offer is set to expire Dec. 10.  Jean-Marc Podvin , a spokesman for Sanofi, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Randall  in New York at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 