-- Santander Among Banks Urging EU to Drop Basel Buffer
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2010-11-24T17:49:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/santander-standard-chartered-urge-eu-to-drop-basel-s-capital-buffer-rules.html
Banco Santander SA and Standard
Chartered Plc are among at least five banks that urged the
European Union to reject plans by global regulators that would
force lenders to hoard extra capital during boom times.  The rules are likely to place some banks at a competitive
disadvantage and may heighten future financial crises, lenders
told the  European Commission . They urged the commission to
either take a different approach than proposed by the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision, or scrap the idea entirely.  “We are strongly opposed to its implementation until its
impact has been more fully assessed,” Standard Chartered said
in a letter published on the commission’s website. The bank has
“serious concerns” about “the viability” of the plans.  The Basel committee has said that regulators should have
the option of requiring banks to build up an additional capital
buffer to curb the excessive lending that led to the financial
crisis. This so-called countercyclical buffer would also help
lenders absorb losses in a recession and may amount to as much
as 2.5 percent of a lender’s assets, weighted according to their
risk.  Regulators are searching for ways to prevent a repeat of
the excessive lending, and subsequent credit crunch that
preceded the financial crisis.  The Commission last month proposed different options for
how to apply the buffer in the EU, and will make a final
decision on the matter by early next year.  Crisis Times  Investors will consider the buffer to be part of the
“minimum” amount of capital that banks must hold, meaning that
it will “fail to provide any relief in crisis times,”
Santander wrote in its response to the commission.  The Basel committee has suggested that a buffer, when
introduced, should apply across a national banking market.
Several banks said that the EU should abandon this approach in
favor of made-to-measure buffers targeting specific banks.  A more tailored approach “means that the capital buffer
will be better aligned to the business model and risk profile of
the institution,” Deutsche Bank AG said in a letter to the
Commission.  While HSBC Holdings Plc took a more positive view than some
banks, describing the buffer plan as “a step in the right
direction,” it said the measure may bring “considerable and
unnecessary complexity” when “combined with other capital
measures.”  The Basel committee agreed in September to triple the
highest-quality capital banks need to hold and narrowed the
definition of what counts as such capital. The regulators also
agreed to impose requirements on lenders to hold a minimum
amount of liquid assets, and to limit their debt. The plans were
approved on Nov. 12 by leaders from the Group of 20 countries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Brunsden  in Brusselst .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 