-- Saudi King Abdullah's Health Has Improved Notably, Al Arabiya TV Reports
-- B y   I n a l   E r s a n   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2010-11-24T17:38:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/saudi-king-abdullah-s-health-has-improved-notably-al-arabiya-tv-reports.html
Saudi Arabian  King Abdullah  has
undergone “successful surgery,” and his health has improved
notably, Saudi-owned Al Arabiya television reported today
without giving further details.  The Dubai-based broadcaster did not give the source of the
information, saying only that the news originated from New York
where the king is receiving medical treatment for a back injury.  The 86-year-old monarch’s treatment in the U.S. has raised
the issue of succession in the world’s largest oil exporter.
King Abdullah delegated management of the affairs of the kingdom
to his half-brother,  Crown Prince Sultan bin Abdulaziz , during
his absence, the state-run Saudi Press Agency said on Nov. 22.  Prince Nayef, the 76-year-old interior minister, and Prince
Salman, the governor of Riyadh, may be additional candidates for
the throne. Saudi law requires that a monarch be a son or
grandson of the kingdom’s founder, Abdulaziz Al Saud, who died
in 1953.  King Abdullah arrived in the U.S. yesterday, the official
 Saudi Press Agency  reported. Physicians advised the monarch to
rest after tests last week showed a slipped spinal disc had
caused a blood clot that put pressure on some nerves, SPA said
on Nov. 19. Health Minister  Abdullah Al Rabeeah  said in an
interview with state television on Nov. 21 that the monarch “is
in good health and in a stable condition.”  Crown Prince’s Health  Crown Prince Sultan, who has travelled frequently in the
past year for health care, arrived in Saudi Arabia on Nov. 21
after spending several months in Morocco, SPA said. The crown
prince, born in 1928, has been defense minister for almost five
decades.  King Abdullah was born in 1924 and is the 13th son of King
Abdulaziz, according to the website of the Saudi Embassy in
Washington.  The Saudi Royal Court said on Oct. 12 that King Abdullah,
who came to power in 2005, suffered from a herniated disc and
had been advised by doctors to rest. Since then, the monarch
appointed his son, Prince Mutaib, as head of the National Guard.  The king also relieved his 77-year-old brother, Prince Badr
bin Abdulaziz, of his duties as deputy head of the National
Guard, SPA said, citing a royal decree. The prince asked to step
down for health reasons, the agency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Inal Ersan  in Dubai at 
 iersan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bruce Stanley at 
 bstanley5@bloomberg.net  