-- Thanksgiving Fliers Dodge Logjams, Accept Scans as Security Trumps Privacy
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r   a n d   J u l i a n n   N e h e r
-- 2010-11-25T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/scanner-uproar-shadows-holiday-travel-as-2-million-cram-into-u-s-airports.html
Thanksgiving holiday fliers accepted
new body scanners and moved smoothly through checkpoints at U.S.
airports, including New York’s LaGuardia and Chicago’s O’Hare,
on one of the year’s busiest travel days.  As passengers packed planes yesterday ahead of today’s
holiday, most ignored protest groups’ calls to opt out of scans
and undergo a lengthier pat-down, and there were no unusual
disruptions or waits at three dozen of the biggest airports,
according to the U.S.  Transportation Security Administration .  The lack of logjams at screening stations gave a boost to
the TSA and marked a setback to the critics of the new body-
imaging technology. Protesters had hoped that travelers
requesting physical searches would create snarls and spur the
agency to change procedures.  “Even before Thanksgiving, a significant majority of
Americans are supporting what TSA is doing or at least is
tolerating it because of the world in which we live with the
terrorism threat,” said  Richard Bloom , director of terrorism
and security studies at Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University in
Prescott, Arizona.  At most airports, including New Jersey’s Newark, Boston and
Miami, only a handful of people skipped scans, the  TSA said on
its website . Atlanta’s airport, the world’s busiest, also
operated normally.  Annual Predictions  “Every year naysayers predict delays and long lines --this
year certainly even more with the opt-out movements,” said  Ann Davis , a spokeswoman for TSA’s northeast region, which
encompasses New York, New England, New Jersey and Pennsylvania.
“Those predictions aren’t coming to fruition.”  LaGuardia workers saw no evidence of slowdowns from
passengers requesting pat-downs, General Manager Thomas Bosco
told reporters.  “I can understand that people may be uncomfortable, but to
protest and go that far, it’s ridiculous,” said Albert Ortiz,
24, a third-year law student at Fordham University in New York
who was bound for Dallas from LaGuardia.  Lines at O’Hare International Airport, a hub for  United
Continental Holdings Inc.  and AMR Corp.’s  American Airlines , ran
no longer than any day before Thanksgiving, said  Karen Pride ,
spokeswoman for the Chicago Department of Aviation.  More than 400 body scanners, which are designed to detect
non-metallic weapons beneath clothing, have been installed in at
least 70 U.S. airports. Fewer than 50 were in use a year ago,
TSA has said.  Braced for Tie-Ups  While fewer than a fifth of airport security lanes have the
scanners in place of traditional metal detectors, officials
around the U.S. braced for tie-ups on a day when the  Air
Transport Association  projected more than 2 million people would
board planes.  “A lot of leisure travelers don’t have much experience
with this,” said  George Hamlin , president of Hamlin
Transportation Consulting in Washington. Most Americans regard
scanners as a necessary evil, he said, and fallout from protests
over their use seemed to be “a little bit less than expected.”  The next test of the technology amid larger-than-usual
crowds will come on Sunday, Nov. 28, as leisure fliers head home
and business travel picks up again after the holiday.  TSA has accelerated adoption of the scanners since a
Northwest Airlines passenger tried to blow up a flight to
Detroit on Dec. 25 by igniting explosives in his underpants that
failed to fully detonate.  Travelers who opt out of a scan must submit to a pat-down,
with agents using the palm side of their hands and fingers
instead of the back, which was the previous practice. Agents are
allowed to feel around breasts and genitals for hidden items.  Health Studies  Protest group  We Won’t Fly  said on its website that the
body scans invade travelers’ privacy as well as possibly
damaging their health. The TSA has countered by citing studies
showing that radiation exposure is minimal.  A dental x-ray delivers as much radiation as 1,000 to 2,000
trips through a TSA scanner, Richard Morin, a professor in the
radiology department at the Mayo Clinic in Jacksonville,
Florida, said in an interview.  At Philadelphia International Airport, traveler Mary Lou
Polcyn, 48, of Elwood, Illinois, said security was her
overriding concern.  “Safety is No. 1, and I don’t mind being scanned or patted
down if it’s for the safety of myself or my family,” she said
as she sipped a cup of coffee.  Her travel challenge was more conventional than the new
scanners: After starting her trip at Chicago’s O’Hare, where she
faced neither a body-image check nor a pat-down, a tarmac delay
there meant that she and her mother, JoAnn Polcyn, missed a
connecting flight in Philadelphia to Salisbury, Maryland.  She planned to rent a car to finish their journey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mary Jane Credeur  in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
 Juliann Neher  in Washington at 
 jneher1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  