-- SEC Economist Vacancies May Aid Legal Challenges of Dodd-Frank Law
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2010-11-24T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/sec-economist-vacancies-may-aid-legal-challenges-of-dodd-frank.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission has begun drafting more than 100 rules required by
the Dodd-Frank Act with a vacancy atop the office that helps
ensure its regulations can withstand court challenges.  The SEC has been without a chief economist since  James Overdahl  stepped down in March, and two candidates for the job
that pays as much as $230,700 a year have fallen through, three
people familiar with the matter said. As she presses the search,
SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  is seeking recommendations from
former agency chief economists and has reversed a decision she
made in 2009 that reduced the position’s prestige.  The office of the chief economist, which reviews potential
regulations to determine whether benefits outweigh costs, may
play a pivotal role as the SEC implements the financial-industry
overhaul enacted in July. Much of the SEC’s work must be
completed under tight deadlines. Missteps in considering the
economic consequences of its rules could leave the agency
vulnerable to lawsuits, former SEC officials said.  “The commission is very strong in securities law, strong
in accounting, but much weaker in the area of financial
analysis,” said Lawrence Harris, a former SEC chief economist
who’s now a finance professor at the University of Southern
California in Los Angeles. “Writing regulations that will serve
the public well, meet the congressional intent and survive legal
challenges will require that the commission consult expertise in
every discipline, including economics.”  Reporting to Hu  The departures of Overdahl eight months ago and deputy
chief economist  Stewart Mayhew , who left in August, followed
Schapiro’s September 2009 announcement that economists would no
longer report to her. Instead they would answer to  Henry Hu , a
University of Texas law professor hired to run a new unit
responsible for spotting emerging threats to financial markets.  Overdahl, in an interview, said the restructuring played a
role in his decision to leave. Mayhew declined to comment.  In a letter sent to former chief economists last month,
Schapiro said the new hire would “report directly to me.”  “I will be looking to the chief economist to assist me, my
fellow commissioners and senior commission staff in evaluating
the economic implications of policy options,” she wrote.  Schapiro also assigned one of her legal counsels to monitor
work being done by Hu’s division, said the people, who declined
to be identified because the decision wasn’t public. Hu
announced Nov. 18 he would leave the SEC to return to academia.  “Given the huge volume of Dodd-Frank rulemaking, and the
key role that the economists play in the process,” Schapiro
“temporarily” assigned one of her senior advisers to assist
Hu, SEC spokesman  John Nester  said. Hu, in an interview, said it
was “totally” his decision to step down.  Overturned Rules  Flawed economic analysis has been a focus of successful
efforts to overturn SEC rules in recent years.  Business groups including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce have
benefitted from a 1996 revision to securities laws that requires
the regulator to consider factors other than investor protection
when writing rules. Specifically, the law requires the SEC to
evaluate whether its regulations will promote “efficiency,
competition and capital formation.”  “No one can possibly predict the costs or burdens with any
real precision,” said  Donald Langevoort , a former SEC official
who teaches securities law at Georgetown University in
Washington. “A court wanting to strike down a rule will always
be able to say this is inadequate because every cost-benefit
analysis is inadequate.”  Since 2005, the U.S. Court of Appeals in Washington has
rejected four SEC regulations on the grounds that the agency
didn’t adequately justify its actions.  Dodd-Frank Suit  In September, the SEC was hit with its first lawsuit
stemming from Dodd-Frank when the Chamber of Commerce sued to
overturn a rule that makes it easier for investors to oust
directors at public companies.  The legislation gave the SEC authority to approve the
regulation on corporate boards. Still, the agency didn’t
adequately assess how much money companies may spend fending off
dissident board candidates, the chamber argued. The SEC delayed
implementation of the rule, known as proxy access, until the
litigation is resolved.  Federal agencies must “give careful thought to the
consequences of their rules,”  Eugene Scalia , a law partner at
Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP who represents the chamber, said in
an interview. “An agency that fails to do that risks finding
itself on the losing end of a legal challenge.”  The SEC’s proxy-access rules are “lawful and in the best
interests of the public and shareholders,” Nester said.  Clear Guidance  Dodd-Frank may insulate agencies including the SEC from
litigation because it requires that regulators approve certain
rules, Langevoort said. In previous cases, judges rejected rules
-- such as a requirement that mutual funds appoint independent
chairmen -- that the agency had approved without clear guidance
from Congress, he said.  “With respect to Dodd-Frank, Congress has been pretty
clear about what it wants,” Langevoort said. “I would find it
troubling for the court to reject regulations in a situation
where lawmakers very plainly directed an agency to carry out its
statutory intent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Westbrook  in Washington at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 