-- Sell Options on Retail Stocks Before Black Friday, Goldman Sachs Advises
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2010-11-24T21:32:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/sell-options-on-retail-stocks-before-black-friday-goldman-sachs-advises.html
Investors should sell options on
retail stocks including  Macy’s Inc.  and Tiffany & Co. before
Black Friday because prices for the contracts are likely to fall
by January, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said.  Strategists  John Marshall  and  Maria Grant  recommended that
Macy’s shareholders sell January covered strangles, which
involve selling a put and call with the same expiry. Those who
don’t own shares of the second-biggest U.S. department-store
chain should sell puts, which give the right to sell the stock.
They said shareholders of Tiffany should sell January $60 calls,
giving the right to buy shares of the jewelry retailer.  The day after U.S. Thanksgiving is known as Black Friday,
the traditional beginning of holiday buying. Stores often open
early on Black Friday and offer discounts to lure shoppers. The
S&P 500 Retailing Index rose 2.6 percent at 4 p.m. in New York,
 the most  among 24 industry groups in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index, and has climbed 6.5 percent this month.  “Given our analysts’ view that strong holiday sales are
already priced into valuation for many of these names, together
with a view that holiday sales will be spread out rather than
concentrated around Black Friday, we think volatility can remain
modest for many retailers,” the strategists wrote.  Macy’s and Tiffany are among the best candidates for retail
options selling because implied volatility, the key gauge of
option prices, for contracts expiring in one or two months is
above the  historic volatility  that the stocks realized over the
past month, the Goldman Sachs strategists said. Selling options
on  Nordstrom Inc. , the U.S. department-store chain with more
than 100 namesake locations, also is “attractive,” they said.  Selling Opportunities  “Realized volatility has been unusually low in retail in
November,” the New York-based strategists wrote in a report
yesterday. “With December and January typically less volatile
than November, we’d focus on options selling opportunities in
retail.”  For Macy’s, they recommended shareholders sell the January
$25 put and January $28 call and that non-shareholders sell the
January $25 puts because Goldman Sachs retail analyst  Adrianne Shapira  projects “limited upside” for the shares. The
Cincinnati-based company rose 1.7 percent to $25.89.  Two-month implied volatility of 37 is “well above seasonal
holiday levels,” they wrote. “Typically, realized volatility
comes in by 7 points in the month prior to December expiration
and a further 2 points in the month ahead of January expiration
after a sharp increase in November.”  Chico’s, Abercrombie  Other attractive stocks for options selling are Chico’s FAS
Inc., J.C. Penney Co., Abercrombie & Fitch Co. and Limited
Brands, Inc., Marshall and Grant said.  Apple Inc.’s January options should be purchased because
contracts expiring in one and three months are trading “near
the bottom end of their recent ranges,” the strategists said.
Options with those maturities have implied volatilities of 20
and 22, respectively, while the median historic volatility
leading up to December and January expiration over the past 16
years was 45 and 52, respectively, the report said.  “We believe the current implied volatility discount is too
extreme,” the strategists said. “In fact, we see the potential
for the importance of iPads this holiday season and a peak in
conjecture around the potential iPhone launch at Verizon to
drive increased volatility in Apple in January.”  Calls give the right to buy a security for a certain
amount, the strike price, by a set date. Puts convey the right
to sell. Investors use options to guard against fluctuations in
the price of securities they own, speculate on share-price moves
or bet that  volatility , or stock swings, will rise or fall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 