-- King Says Inflation Risks `Balanced,' Bank of England Stands Ready to Act
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2010-11-25T10:24:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/sentance-says-u-k-rate-rise-needed-soon-to-stem-price-risks.html
Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King 
said policy makers view inflation risks as “broadly balanced”
at present and are ready to tighten or loosen policy as needed.  “Overall, a majority of the Monetary Policy Committee have
concluded that the risks are, at present, broadly balanced,”
King told lawmakers in London today. “But we all stand ready to
adjust policy -- in either direction -- should the outlook for
inflation demand it.”  Policy makers have split as they debate the risks from
inflation and the impact on growth from government-spending
cuts.  Inflation  accelerated to 3.2 percent in October, the
eighth month above the government’s 3 percent limit, as a weaker
pound and higher commodity costs fed price gains.  King said “strong action” against inflation would risk
destabilizing the U.K. economy.  “The key question is what is likely to happen to inflation
in the medium term,” he said. “If the MPC took strong action to
offset temporary fluctuations in inflation, then we would risk
generating undesirable volatility in output, as referred to in
our remit.”  The nine-member policy committee voted three ways on
whether to increase or withdraw stimulus at this month’s
decision.  Adam Posen  kept up his demand to increase the 200
billion-pound ($319 billion) stimulus plan by 50 billion pounds,
while  Andrew Sentance  voted to raise the benchmark interest rate
for a sixth month. Posen told lawmakers today that more
purchases may be “helpful” though the impact may be limited.  “The range of views amongst the MPC about which of these
risks will come to dominate is wider than usual, and that
explains why different members have drawn different policy
conclusions in recent months,” King said. “That difference of
views -- and the healthy, open policy debate that accompanies it
-- is something to be welcomed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jennifer Ryan  in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  