-- Solar Power Cost to Equal Fossil Fuel Expense Within Decade, BP Forecasts
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2010-11-24T14:52:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/solar-power-cost-to-equal-fossil-fuel-expense-in-decade-bp-says.html
The cost of generating power by
capturing the sun’s energy will fall about 10 percent a year in
the next decade until it equals the expense of producing
electricity by burning fossil fuels, a  BP Plc  official said.  As conventional fuel prices rise and solar power falls,
generation costs may reach parity in as little as five years for
some fossil energy sources,  Vahid Fotuhi , Middle East director
of BP Solar, said at a conference in Abu Dhabi yesterday. Solar
power costs about 20 cents a kilowatt-hour now, he said.  BP installed about 200 megawatts of solar capacity last
year and aims to add 300 megawatts of that generation source
this year, Fotuhi said. The company aims to pursue large-scale
solar projects in the Middle East, he said.  Persian Gulf states are boosting power supply to meet
rising demand from growing populations as they aim to spur
economic growth through investment. Saudi Arabia and the United
Arab Emirates are studying nuclear energy and setting targets
for generation from renewable resources to diversify supply.  Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest crude oil exporter, may
start projects to build 200 to 300 megawatts of solar generation
capacity within the next few years, Fotuhi said.  The kingdom is one of the main Middle East markets where
renewable projects may take off, said  Steve Mercieca , associate
director for Renewable Energy and Environmental Finance at
 Standard Chartered Plc  in Dubai. Egypt is also set to grow
because of its “insatiable appetite for power,” he said.  Improving Technology  Solar power expenses are declining as technology improves,
the speakers said. Fossil fuel costs may climb with oil prices
that are expected to rise to an average of $94.50 a barrel in
2012 and to $102.13 a barrel in 2013, according to the weighted
average of estimates from 35 analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Several tenders to build plants with capacities of about 10
megawatts each will be announced in the Middle East and North
Africa in the next year, said  Sami Khoreibi , chief executive
officer of Abu Dhabi-based Enviromena Power Systems. Enviromena
built a 10 megawatt plant at Masdar, the renewable energy and
low-carbon city project being built in Abu Dhabi.  Abu Dhabi, the largest emirate in the U.A.E. and holder of
most of its oil, is also building a 100-megawatt solar plant in
the desert. The emirate has set a target of generating 7 percent
of its power from renewable resources by 2020.  Energy subsidies in the Middle East help to increase usage,
Khoreibi said. Consumers in the Persian Gulf region pay only
about a third of the real cost for power, Fotuhi said.  Abu Dhabi residents are set to see the real price of
electricity on their January bills, though they will still only
be required to pay the subsidized price,  The National  reported
today. The government, which pays 86 percent of the bill for
U.A.E. nationals in Abu Dhabi and 50 percent for foreigners,
aims to entice residents to cut usage by showing the real cost
of energy, the newspaper reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anthony DiPaola  in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net . 