-- South Korean Won, Stocks Fall After North's Artillery Attack; Bonds Steady
-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n   a n d   F r a n c e s   Y o o n
-- 2010-11-24T04:31:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/south-korea-s-kospi-falls-most-in-two-weeks-after-north-korea-shells-south.html
South Korea’s won dropped to a two-
month low and  stocks  declined after North Korea fired artillery
at its southern neighbor, killing two soldiers. Government bonds
recovered from initial losses.  The Kospi was 0.5 percent lower at 1,919.44 as of 1:13 p.m.
in Seoul, having earlier slumped as much as 2.4 percent.
Shipbuilders and airlines led declines, with  Samsung Heavy
Industries Co.  and  Korean Air Lines Co.  sliding 1.5 percent or
more. The  won  weakened 0.9 percent to 1,147.30 per dollar and
touched 1,172.50, the lowest level since Sept. 9.  “The shock is starting to fade so the impact may be
limited,” said  Lee Young Seog , a Seoul-based portfolio manager
with Korea Investment Trust Management Co., which manages about
$7 billion in equities. “Foreign and institutional investors
are seeing the plunge in stocks as an opportunity to buy.”  South Korea scrambled fighter jets and returned fire after
North Korea yesterday lobbed shells at an island near their
border, setting houses ablaze in the worst attack in at least
eight months. The finance ministry said today it will supply
“ample” liquidity if needed to keep financial markets stable
and is prepared to act to counter “herd” behavior.  The yield on the government’s benchmark three-year bonds
was one basis point lower at 3.35 percent, having earlier
climbed four basis points, according to Korea Stock Exchange.  The cost of insuring government debt from default increased,
with credit-default swaps rising three basis points to 107.5
basis points, according to Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. The
contracts pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet
its obligations. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Europe, China  Moody’s Investors Service said in an-email today South
Korea’s credit rating won’t be affected by the North’s attack.
The won weakened in each of the last two weeks as the Irish
government entered talks to secure financial aid, bolstering
demand for dollars, and monetary tightening in China spurred
concern demand will cool in South Korea’s biggest export market.  “At this stage we’re waiting to see how things play out,”
said  Shane Oliver , AMP Capital Investors Ltd.’s Sydney-based
head of investment strategy. “There’s the risk of a knee-jerk
reaction in markets. It’s coming at a bad time, with the
European debt issue and also worries about ongoing tightening in
China.”  Tensions with nuclear-armed North Korea have risen this
year following the sinking of a South Korean warship in March
that the U.S. and its allies blamed on a torpedo attack.
President  Barack Obama  dispatched his envoy on the country,
 Stephen Bosworth , to Asian capitals this week after reports by a
U.S. scientist that North Korea had revealed to him a
“stunning” new uranium-enrichment plant.  Buying Opportunity  Any share plunge may offer chances to buy equities cheaply,
according to HLG Asset Management Sdn. in Kuala Lumpur and Hamon
Asset Management Ltd. in Hong Kong.  Overseas investors  bought
more shares than they sold today, building on this month’s $1.9
billion of net purchases through yesterday, exchange data show.  “This kind of event is very difficult to predict,” said
 Geoffrey Ng , who manages $1 billion including South Korean
equities as chief executive officer at HLG Asset Management Sdn.
in Kuala Lumpur. “This may provide an opportunity to increase
our weightings if the correction is very severe.”  Shares on the Kospi Index are valued at an average 9.7
times analyst estimates for next year’s earnings, the third-
cheapest valuation among Asia-Pacific benchmark indexes, after
Pakistan and Vietnam, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “If this escalates into a real war, of course it will
start to affect the stocks,” said Hamon Asset’s  Monika Yang ,
who helps oversee $2 billion in Hong Kong. “It would make the
entire region very unstable and we would need the U.S. to step
in.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chan Tien Hin  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  