-- South African Corn Trapped by Rand as Rail Favors Coal
-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2010-11-25T17:44:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/south-africa-corn-surplus-trapped-by-surging-rand-as-rail-lines-favor-coal.html
Favorable weather and genetically
modified seeds have given South African corn farmers their
biggest harvest since 1982. If only it could be sold.  Dilapidated rail lines and a surging currency are trapping
a record corn surplus within the country’s borders. The buildup
may force growers out of business and cut jobs in agriculture,
the biggest employer in a nation where one in four is without
work. And it has caused the benchmark corn price in Johannesburg
to slump 19 percent in dollar terms this year, while its U.S.
equivalent has risen by 34 percent.  “They can’t get it out because of the rand, because of
infrastructure, because some countries don’t want it,” Henk van
de Graaf, assistant general manager of the Pretoria-based TLU SA
farmers union, said in an interview. “It impacts the economics
of the little farming towns who live off the farmers. Businesses
in the towns close down, there is a real snowball effect.”  Competition authorities are considering a request by Grain
SA, the Bothaville-based growers’ organization, to allow it to
hold the surplus off the domestic market to support prices. The
government has tried, and failed, to find buyers in China, Egypt
and Tunisia,  Tina Joemat-Pettersson , the country’s agriculture
minister, told lawmakers in Cape Town on Nov. 9.  The country reaped 12.82 million metric tons of corn this
year, the government’s Crop Estimates Committee said today in
its final crop assessment. That could result in a 4.5 million
ton surplus, according to Joemat-Pettersson, triple last
season’s exports. At current prices that could be worth at least
$818 million.  Bumper Harvests  South African farmers have compounded their difficulties by
using genetically modified seeds, disliked across much of
Africa, while at the same time allocating three-fifths of their
crop to the white variety of the grain, popular on the continent
but not in Europe or Asia. This year’s surplus comes after large
harvests in 2009 and 2008.  Shipments have been further hindered by bumper harvests in
southern African countries, where South Africa has traditionally
trucked excess grain. While corn has been exported to South
Korea, Kuwait, Spain and Japan, an inability to transport
significant amounts of grain to ports has thwarted previous
efforts to develop new markets.  “It’s been an absolute disaster,” said  John Gordon , who
retired last year as chairman of the South African Cereal and
Oil Seed Traders Association, from Johannesburg. “It’s the rail
system that’s the problem. Grain is not profitable for them.”  Idled Lines  Transnet Freight Rail Ltd., the country’s freight rail
monopoly, is short of locomotives. Coal is easier to transport
because large quantities can be loaded at one location,  Sandile Simelane , a spokesman for the Johannesburg-based, state-owned
company, said by e-mail.  Transnet won’t repair 3,255 kilometers (2,023 miles) of
idled rural lines because it wants private investors to run
them, Public Enterprises Minister  Malusi Gigaba  said in a Nov.
23 reply to parliamentary questions. His ministry oversees
Transnet.  “Our infrastructure has gone dramatically backwards,”
said  Ernst Janovsky , agribusiness head at Johannesburg’s  Absa
Group Ltd. , the biggest lender to South African farmers. “You
struggle to export one to two million tons” annually.  Even as farmers can’t get their corn to ports, global
demand may exceed production by 18.8 million tons this year, the
U.S. Department of Agriculture said.  Rising Yields  “We’ve got such tight fundamentals for grain globally for
any surplus there would be demand,” said  Luke Chandler , head of
agricultural-markets research at  Rabobank  in London.  More than two-thirds of corn planted in South Africa is
genetically modified,  Gert Heyns , marketing manager at the local
unit of  Monsanto Co ., the world’s largest seed company, said
from Johannesburg. That’s helped push up yields to 4.76 tons per
hectare (2.471 acres) this year from 3.86 tons in 2006,
according to the Crop Estimates Committee.  “The African market is reluctant to buy our maize due to
its genetic modification,” Sue Middleton, a deputy director-
general at the Department of Agriculture, told lawmakers this
month.  South Africa has exported 365,265 tons of white corn in the
marketing year that began May 1, compared with 1.41 million tons
for all of last year, according to the Pretoria-based South
African Grain Information Service. All of that was within
Africa.  Rand, Peso  Yellow corn exports, mostly to East Asia, have risen to
508,226 tons from 261,338 tons for all of last season.  Gains in South Africa’s currency are also making its corn
less competitive. The rand has climbed 34 percent against the
dollar since the end of 2008 and 54 percent against the
Argentine peso. Argentina and the U.S. are the world’s biggest
corn exporters. South Africa ranks sixth.  The industry is looking to the government for help.  The lack of a market for South Africa’s corn “represents a
threat to the survival of farm owners” and employees, Katishi
Masemola, general secretary of the Food & Allied Workers union,
which represents 25,000 farm workers, said in an interview. “In
time of food surplus the state must buy, and in times of
shortage, the state must then release to the market.”  While the government has sympathy, it can’t bail out
farmers, Joemat-Pettersson told lawmakers.  “Producers must understand that demand must dictate
supply,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carli Lourens  in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net ;
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net .
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 