-- South Korea Offers `Huge Buying Opportunity' After Shelling, SocGen Says
-- B y   D a r r e n   B o e y
-- 2010-11-24T04:04:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/south-korea-offers-huge-buying-opportunity-after-shelling-socgen-says.html
Declines in  South Korean stocks 
after an artillery attack by North Korea offer a “huge”
opportunity to buy equities in a cheap market, according to
Societe Generale.  The  Kospi Index  fell 0.5 percent to 1,918.87 as of 1 p.m.
in Seoul, having slumped as much as 2.4 percent earlier. The
Bank of New York Mellon Korea Index sank 4.2 percent in U.S.
trading yesterday. Stocks in the Kospi trade at an average 9.6
times estimates for next year’s profit, the third-lowest
valuation in Asia after Pakistan and Vietnam, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “Shut your eyes and buy this sell-off,” analysts led by
 Todd Martin , Societe Generale’s Asia equity strategist, wrote in
a report dated today.  Yesterday’s shelling killed two soldiers and set houses
ablaze in the worst attack by North Korea on its neighbor in at
least eight months. South Korea will supply “ample” liquidity
in local and foreign currencies if needed to shield markets, the
finance ministry said after an emergency meeting of government
and central bank officials this morning.  Tensions with nuclear-armed North Korea have risen in the
past year after the sinking of the South Korean warship Cheonan
in late March killed 46 sailors. The  Kospi  lost 0.3 percent on
March 29, the first day of trading after news of the sinking
emerged, and has climbed 13 percent since then.  Quick Rebound  “Similar confrontations in the past showed the impact on
financial markets was very limited,” said  Vana Bulbon , chief
executive officer at UOB Asset Management (Thai) Co., which
oversees about $1.8 billion of assets. “The stock, bond and
financial markets rebounded quickly from the initial declines
after the confrontation. I expect a similar recovery this time,
when most investors don’t see the incident escalating.”  President  Barack Obama  dispatched envoy  Stephen Bosworth  to
Asia this week after a U.S. scientist reported that North Korea
had built a uranium-enrichment plant. Obama said he “strongly
condemned the attack” and told counterpart Lee Myung Bak in a
telephone call that the U.S. “stands shoulder to shoulder” with
its Asian ally. The two leaders agreed to hold joint military
exercises and training “in the days ahead,” according to a White
House statement released late last night in Washington.  “If this escalates into a real war, of course it will
start to affect the stocks,” said  Monika Yang , who helps
oversee $2 billion at Hamon Asset Management Ltd. in Hong Kong.
“It would make the entire region very unstable and we would
need the U.S. to step in.”  Yang and HLG Asset Management Sdn.’s Chief Executive
Officer  Geoffrey Ng , who is based in Kuala Lumpur, said they may
use stock declines to purchase equities.  “History has shown these incidents to be viewed as buying
opportunities and this one is no different,” Societe Generale’s
analysts wrote in their report.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Darren Boey  at in Hong Kong or
 dboey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net . 