-- South Korea Pledges `Ample' Liquidity to Support Markets in Wake of Attack
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2010-11-24T04:15:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/south-korea-pledges-ample-liquidity-to-support-markets-in-wake-of-attack.html
South Korea will supply “ample”
liquidity in local and foreign currencies if needed to shield
markets from any shocks after North Korea’s attack on one of the
country’s islands yesterday, the finance ministry said.  “The government and central bank will act quickly when
extreme anxiety sparks herd behavior in the financial and
currency markets,” the finance ministry said in a statement
after government and central bank officials held an emergency
meeting this morning to discuss possible countermeasures to
support markets in the wake of the exchange of artillery fire.  “We are fully capable of coping with this situation given
our record foreign-exchange reserves and strong economic
fundamentals,” Vice Finance Minister  Yim Jong Yong  told
reporters in Seoul after the meeting. International credit
rating companies share the government’s view that the impact on
the economy and markets will be limited, Yim said.  South Korea’s  Kospi  fell 0.6 percent to 1,917.59 in Seoul
as of 12:08 p.m. after losing 2.3 percent at the opening. The
won was down 0.7 percent at 1,146.00 per dollar after touching
1,172.50, the lowest since Sept. 9. The cost of insuring South
Korean government debt from default increased after the attacks,
with credit-default swaps climbing 3 basis points to 107.5 basis
points, according to Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  Ratings Impact  South Korea scrambled fighter jets and returned fire after
North Korea yesterday lobbed shells at an island near their
border, killing two soldiers and setting houses ablaze in the
worst attack in at least eight months.  Moody’s Investors Service, Fitch Ratings, and Standard &
Poor’s Ratings Services said today that South Korea’s credit
rating won’t be affected by North Korea’s artillery attack.  The uncertainty surrounding North Korea has increased as
the country undergoes a leadership transition, Moody’s senior
vice president  Thomas Byrne  said in an e-mailed response to
questions. Still, “our assessment remains that the robust state
of the ROK-U.S. military alliance and China’s interest in
stability on the peninsula will deter Pyongyang from taking even
more reckless provocations, possibly leading to war,” he said.  Byrne said South Korea’s strong credit fundamentals
continue to support the rating. Moody’s rates South Korea’s
foreign and local currency long-term debt A1, the fifth-highest
of 10 investment-grade levels with a “stable” outlook.  Fitch isn’t considering a “negative rating action” on
South Korea,  Andrew Colquhoun , the Hong Kong-based head of Asia-
Pacific sovereign debt, said in an e-mailed response to
questions from Bloomberg News. The company has South Korea’s
rating at A+ with a stable outlook.  Standard & Poor’s director of sovereign ratings  Takahira Ogawa  said “We do not believe that this incident will impair
the financial account of Korea’s balance of payments or its
other credit metrics.”  S&P, which has an ‘A’ foreign currency and ‘A+’ local
currency sovereign rating on South Korea, will continue to
monitor the situation, Ogawa said in e-mailed comments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  