-- Soybeans Climb to One-Week High on Chinese Demand; Corn Futures Advance
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2010-11-24T20:15:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/soybeans-rise-on-increased-chinese-purchases-corn-advances-a-second-day.html
Soybean futures rose to a one-week
high on increased sales of U.S. supplies to China, the world’s
biggest oilseed consumer. Corn also gained.  U.S. exporters sold 780,000 metric tons of soybeans to
China for delivery before Aug. 31, the U.S. Department of
Agriculture said today. From Sept. 1 to Nov. 11,  sales  rose 19
percent to 30.748 million tons from a year earlier. The amount
to China, up 21 percent from a year earlier, accounted for 62
percent of the total.  “China’s return to the market is supporting higher
prices,” said  Roy Huckabay , an executive vice president at the
Linn Group in Chicago. “This sale is important because South
American soybeans are currently offered cheaper than the U.S. on
a landed basis to China.”  Soybean futures for January delivery rose 16 cents, or 1.3
percent, to settle at $12.55 a bushel at 1:35 p.m. on the
Chicago Board of Trade. Earlier, the price reached $12.5825, the
highest for a most-active contract since Nov. 16. The oilseed
has climbed 4.5 percent this week.  U.S. markets will be closed tomorrow for the Thanksgiving
holiday.  Last week, soybeans tumbled 5.3 percent on concern that
China may raise interest rates to curb inflation, eroding demand
for raw materials  Chinese exchanges will raise costs to invest in farm-
product and metal futures as part of a government effort to
limit speculation and tame inflation. The government has pledged
to use price controls and may raise rates to curb surging food
costs.  ‘Admitting Food Problem’  “Any time you have a government blaming speculators for a
problem, you have an underlying fundamental supply issue
developing,” said  Charlie Sernatinger , a vice president at ABN
Amro Clearing LLC in Chicago.  “China is admitting that they
have a food problem.”  Corn gained on speculation that China will increase
purchases to feed expanding hog herds and chicken flocks, said
 Bill Gary , the president of Commodity Information Systems Inc.
in Oklahoma City. China, the second-biggest producer and
consumer of the grain, became a  net importer  in the 12 months
ended Sept. 30 for the first time in four years, USDA data show.  The China Banking Regulatory Commission said on Nov. 22
that it will increase loans to the agricultural industry with an
emphasis on crops facing shortages, including rice, corn,
vegetables, cotton and sugar.  ‘Grain Shortages’  “Most interpret this as admitting the nation is
experiencing grain shortages, with concerns government reserves
may not be large enough to avoid huge imports over the coming
season,” Gary said in a report. “We expect these revelations
to be supportive of grain futures in the near term.”  Corn futures for March delivery rose 10.75 cents, or 2
percent, to $5.5375 a bushel. Yesterday, the price gained 2.6
percent after touching $5.2025, the lowest for the most active
contract since Oct. 8.  This year, corn has climbed 34 percent, and soybeans are up
20 percent. The U.S. is the leading exporter of the crops.  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $48.6 billion in
2009, followed by soybeans at $31.8 billion, government data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  