-- Soybeans, Corn Advance on Concern Weather May Damage South American Crops
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2010-11-24T14:25:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/soybeans-corn-advance-on-concern-weather-may-damage-south-american-crops.html
Soybeans climbed for a third day in
Chicago and corn extended yesterday’s rally on concern dry
weather may damage South American oilseed and grain harvests
amid sustained demand from China.  January-delivery soybeans gained 0.8 percent to $12.485 a
bushel at 2:14 p.m. Paris time, while corn for March delivery
advanced 0.9 percent to $5.48 a bushel.  Dry weather this week will produce a two-month rainfall
deficit of 7 inches across fields in South America, according to
T-Storm Weather. A La Nina weather event has reduced soil
moisture, the forecaster said. The U.S. is the world’s biggest
corn and soybean exporter, followed by Brazil and Argentina.  “Conditions continue to be very dry on the South American
continent, which could penalize particularly corn in Argentina
if it continues until January,” Paris-based farm adviser
Agritel said in a market comment on its website today.  Brazil soybean and corn farmers may face a drought similar
to the one that damaged 13 percent of national grain and oilseed
crops five years ago, said  Expedito Rebello , head of research at
the government’s Meteorology Institute.  “Corn continues to gain support from the dryness” within
South America, particularly Argentina, said  Luke Mathews ,
commodity strategist at  Commonwealth Bank  of Australia in
Sydney. Lack of moisture is also a concern for soybeans, he
said.  La Nina  The southern part of Brazil has received below-average rain
since October because of a La Nina pattern, raising concern that
crops being planted now will be damaged before next year’s
harvest, Rebello said. Brazil is the world’s second-largest
soybean exporter and ranks third for corn.  “Weather in South America could be a main theme for the
coming two weeks, as U.S. crops have been harvested and now the
focus is on South America,”  Ker Chung Yang , an analyst at
Phillip Futures Pte, said by phone from Singapore. Soybeans and
corn will likely gain on concern that dry weather will lower
production, he said.  Grains also advanced on sustained demand from China, even
as the government attempts to curb inflation, hoarding and
speculation in agricultural markets, Ker said. Commodity
exchanges in the country said today they will increase the costs
of trading agriculture and metal futures as part of the
government effort.  $3 Billion  China agreed on Nov. 22 to buy 5.5 million metric tons of
U.S. soybeans, worth almost $3 billion, the U.S. Department of
Agriculture said. China became the second-biggest destination
for U.S. farm exports in 2009 and is the largest market for the
nation’s soybeans, with $9 billion in projected sales this year,
the USDA said.  March-delivery wheat gained 1 percent to $6.8775 a bushel.
Milling wheat for January delivery traded on NYSE Liffe in Paris
rose 0.8 percent to 215.75 euros ($288.52) a ton.  Wheat is benefiting from continued concern about dryness
across part of western Kansas and Colorado, Mathews said. Gains
may be limited because investors will probably continue reducing
positions in Chicago before tomorrow’s Thanksgiving holiday and
activity will likely be subdued in the next few days, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  