-- Spain Delays $18 Billion Power-Bond Program as Government Yields Soar
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2010-11-24T17:19:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/spain-freezes-start-of-18-billion-electricity-bond-program-as-yield-soars.html
Spain froze the start of its 13.5
billion-euro ($18 billion) program to sell state-guaranteed
power revenue bonds until government debt-market volatility
abates, people with direct knowledge of the transaction said.  Bankers who were authorized yesterday to begin gauging
investor interest in the first tranche of bonds will wait until
the yield stabilizes on Spanish debt, which has been roiled by
Ireland’s bailout request, said two people who asked not to be
named because the process is confidential. The bankers are
monitoring the market for a chance to proceed with the sale
after the yield settles, a third person said.  “Going ahead with these bonds would have been almost
crazy,” said  Ivan Comerma , who manages about 3 billion euros as
head of capital markets at Banc International Banca Mora in
Andorra. “It would be better to wait till the waters calm.”  The decision delays Spain’s effort to repay about 14.6
billion euros owed to power companies from the so-called tariff
deficit, or the difference between the government-fixed price
for power and the cost of supplying it. Moody’s Investors
Service said in July it may consider downgrading the debt of
Iberdrola SA, Spain’s largest utility, and said it was concerned
that the power-bond sale might be delayed.  “This is a bad news for Iberdrola and the rest of the
utilities,” said  Francisco Salvador , a strategist at Madrid-
based broker FGA-MG Valores. “The companies have been waiting a
long time to get the proceeds of these transactions to reduce
their leverage.”  Spanish utility shares extended losses after the news, with
Iberdrola closing 1.4 percent lower to close at 5.51 euros and
 Endesa  down 1.7 percent at 18.59 euros in Madrid.  Spread at Record  The spread between Spanish government bonds and German
sovereign debt touched a euro-era record today on concern Spain
will struggle to finance its budget shortfall. Spanish
government bonds will be a benchmark for pricing the tariff-
deficit bonds.  The extra yield on Spanish 10-year debt compared with the
German equivalent was little changed at 235 basis points after
rising as high as 249 basis points as contagion from Ireland’s
fiscal crisis swept through the southern euro area.  Iberdrola  and Endesa, Spain’s biggest power producers, are
owed about 3.7 billion euros and 7.7 billion euros,
respectively, after using their cash and debt to cover the gap
between revenue they receive from customers and what has been
promised by the government. About 3 billion euros is owed to
other Spanish utilities, including Gas Natural SDG SA and the
local units of E.ON AG and EDP-Energias de Portugal SA.  Spain has been unable to sell power bonds for more than two
years, after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
triggered the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression,
trashing the budgets of governments from Washington to Athens.  A government Finance Ministry official who declined to be
named in line with policy said today there were no new
developments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Sills  in Madrid at   bsills@bloomberg.net 
 Esteban Duarte  in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net 
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  