-- Foreclosure Probe Talks Expanded to Include Investors Urging Resolution
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2010-11-25T05:01:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/state-foreclosure-probe-talks-include-mortgage-investors-urging-quick-deal.html
Mortgage-backed securities holders
are pushing for a resolution of a 50-state probe of foreclosure
practices, attorneys general in Iowa and Arizona said as talks
with lenders and servicers expand to include investors.  “The mortgage backed securities are worth pennies on the
dollar, so any kind of recovery would be better,” Arizona
Attorney General  Terry Goddard  said in an interview. Owners of
mortgage-backed securities are “one of the players urging a
resolution,” he said. State officials have begun informal talks
with some investors, Iowa Attorney General  Tom Miller  said.  All 50 U.S. states are investigating whether banks and loan
servicers used false documents and signatures to justify
hundreds of thousands of foreclosures. The probe, announced Oct.
13, came after  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and  Ally Financial Inc. ’s
GMAC mortgage unit said they would stop repossessions in 23
states where courts supervise home seizures and  Bank of America
Corp. , the largest U.S. lender, froze foreclosures nationwide.  The probe has since widened to include other mortgage
practices, with attorneys general suggesting any potential
resolution should include improving the loan modification
process, barring foreclosures when people are modifying loans
and creating a general fund to compensate homeowners who may
have been victims of wrongful foreclosures.  “Robosigning was the straw that broke the camel’s back,”
Goddard said, referring to the practice of loan servicer
employees signing thousands of documents without determining if
they were accurate. “It was proof positive that it wasn’t just
in one state and virtually every financial institution was
complicit.”  Expand Their Talks  Miller, the leader of the 50 attorneys general in the
investigation, said Nov. 23 that the states plan to expand their
talks with investors to face-to-face meetings.  “They are an important part of the resolution,” he said
in an interview.  Dallas attorney  Talcott Franklin  and Houston lawyer Kathy
Patrick, who represent investors in mortgage-backed securities,
didn’t return calls or emails seeking comment.  A group of investors coordinating through Franklin’s RMBS
Investor Clearing House owns at least 25 percent of voting
rights in more than 3,000 mortgage securitizations, he said Nov.
12. Patrick represents bond investors including the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York and  BlackRock Inc. , which are seeking
to force Bank of America to buy back bad home loans.  No Quick Accord  A quick settlement is unlikely, Miller said.  Reports of a quick resolution are “totally wrong,” the
Iowa official said. “It’s going to take a little longer.”  The interests of some investors are one obstacle to a quick
settlement, said Miller.  Pooling and servicing agreements may dictate rights on loan
modifications, and there are restrictions on gaining approval
for adjustments on portfolios owned by government sponsored
enterprises, such as Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae.  “We’re working with our federal partners” to resolve
this, Miller said.  Laurie Goodman , an Amherst Securities Group LP analyst,
said at a conference in October that investors owning mortgage-
backed securities fear any settlement with the attorneys general
will involve “a large scale modification effort” that hurts
bondholders. This reluctance isn’t universal, Miller said.  “Some of them tell us they’re not opposed to
modifications,” he said.  Payment Beats Foreclosure  Investors are realizing that “foreclosure takes them out
of the picture,” said Arizona Attorney General Goddard. “It’s
far better to have someone pay, even if it’s a reduced value.”  Banks have suggested the securities owners may block a
settlement that includes loan modifications, said Chris Katopis,
executive director of the  Association of Mortgage Investors .  “The servicers are painting us as a convenient patsy,” he
said. “We find it absolutely inaccurate that we’re holding up
the modification process.”  The mortgage investors oppose eliminating the so-called
dual track, in which homeowners can be facing foreclosure while
being considered for a loan modification, Katopis said.  “The dual track is a tool for avoiding foreclosures,” he
said in a phone interview. “You have to hold people’s feet to
the fire somehow.”  Iowa’s Miller rejected that argument, saying “dual track
is fundamentally a bad practice. It creates great anxiety and
uncertainty for the homeowner. The problems in modifications
have not been to get homeowners to agree.”  No Global Accord  Miller has said that there wouldn’t be a global settlement
of the 50-state investigation.  “It would be one bank at a time,” he said on Nov. 8.  A universal settlement is unlikely because the banks and
servicers have been “all over the board” about whether they
have a problem with their foreclosure procedures or whether
they’ve done anything wrong, said Mark Kaufman, the Maryland
Commissioner of Financial Regulation.  While the 50-state group has begun talking to banks as part
of its investigation, individual attorneys general are
continuing with separate probes.  Illinois Attorney General  Lisa Madigan  is reviewing
information provided by mortgage companies, spokeswoman Robyn
Ziegler said. The office demanded information from 26 companies,
including  Wells Fargo & Co.  She declined to comment about which
companies have provided information or about any meetings with
them.  “We’re reviewing information they provided to us, and
we’re in discussions with them,” Ziegler said.  Florida Talks  Florida Attorney General  Bill McCollum’s  office has spoken
with representatives of  Bank of America , JPMorgan, Detroit-based
Ally, PNC Financial Services Group Inc. and  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. ’s Litton Loan Servicing, according to his spokeswoman,
Sandi Copes. McCollum asked to meet with the companies in
October to discuss their foreclosure practices.  The office had follow-up discussions with Bank of America,
New York-based JPMorgan and Litton.  “We have had constructive meetings with attorneys general
and a number of positive steps have been discussed,”  Jumana Bauwens , a Bank of American spokeswoman said in an e-mail. She
declined to elaborate.  Donna Marie Jendritza, a spokeswoman for Litton, declined
to comment immediately.  Thomas Kelly , a JPMorgan spokesman,
declined to comment.  McCollum also is seeking to meet with San Francisco-based
Wells Fargo. The request came after the bank said that it found
problems with foreclosure affidavits, Copes said  Talks ‘Will Continue’  “I think the conversations will continue for the
foreseeable future,” Copes said. “It’s too early to determine
what resolutions will be pursued.”  Vickee Adams, a spokeswoman for  Wells Fargo , didn’t return
a phone call seeking comment.  If banks fail to reach an agreement with the attorneys
general group, “they could be facing 50 separate pieces of
litigation,” Arizona’s Goddard said.  While the states have recently begun talks with investors,
negotiations with banks and mortgage services continue, said
 Richard Blumenthal , Connecticut’s attorney general.  “Loan servicers and lenders are cooperating with our
investigation, which has expanded beyond robosigning. Ongoing
discussions with lenders and servicers include reforming the
loan modification process and greater foreclosure relief for
homeowners,” Blumenthal, who was elected U.S. senator for
Connecticut this month, said in a statement.  “We will explore all options, including possible legal
action, if discussions fail to produce a settlement assuring the
rule of law, property rights and fair treatment,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan,
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net  and;
 David McLaughlin  in New York at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 