-- UBS Sees State Firms Doubling Dollar Bond Sales on M&A Plans: China Credit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-25T05:54:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/state-firms-poised-to-double-dollar-bond-sales-china-credit.html
China’s  state-owned companies  may
turn to the global bond market to finance a surge in overseas
acquisitions as the yuan appreciates and regulators curb access
to domestic bank loans.  Dollar-denominated bond sales by companies backed by an
implied sovereign guarantee will more than double to $8 billion
in 2011, according to estimates from UBS AG, which helped
Sinochem Group sell 30-year notes in the U.S. currency this
month. Non-bank state firms raised about $3.6 billion from the
dollar market this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Every major company is on a shopping spree,”  Steve Wang ,
head of fixed-income research at BOCI Securities Ltd., said in a
phone interview from Hong Kong. “They want to acquire assets
overseas when the dollar is still low and the yuan is
strengthening,” he said, identifying  Cnooc Ltd. , China
Petroleum & Chemical Corp., also known as Sinopec, and China
Cosco Holdings Co. as potential bond issuers.  Overseas investment by Chinese companies jumped to $57
billion last year from $27 billion in 2007, according to the
nation’s commerce ministry, amid increasing demand for resources
and raw materials in the world’s fastest-growing economy. While
the yuan appreciated 2.66 percent against the dollar this year,
making foreign acquisitions cheaper, regulators imposed a 7.5
trillion yuan ($1.1 trillion)  cap  on bank lending after a record
9.59 trillion yuan of loans last year fueled concern that the
money would fuel asset bubbles.  Loan Limits  China’s biggest banks are poised to reach their quotas and
will stop expanding their loan books, four people with knowledge
of the matter said on Nov. 23. The yuan-denominated corporate
bond market expanded 54 percent to $546 billion in the year
ending June 30, helping fund enterprises in a nation that’s
relied on state bank lending for three decades, the Asian
Development Bank said in a report last month.  China will control the pace of bank lending for the
remainder of this year as it will be difficult to stay within
the government’s 7.5 trillion yuan target for new loans in 2010,
 Hu Xiaolian , a deputy governor of the  People’s Bank of China ,
said in a  statement  posted on the central bank’s website
yesterday.  PetroChina Co., the nation’s biggest oil and gas producer,
said March 29 it plans to spend at least $60 billion in the next
decade on overseas acquisitions. This month Chesapeake Energy
Corp., the second-biggest U.S. natural gas producer, completed
the sale of a $1.08 billion stake in its Eagle Ford shale
project in Texas to Cnooc Ltd.  ‘Longer-Term Funds’  “State-owned companies’ balance sheets are weighted
towards short-term debt provided by Chinese banks, so some are
looking to the overseas bond market for longer-term funds,”
Ronald Tang Wai-Hung, a director of China capital markets
origination at Citigroup Inc., said at a conference in Beijing
on Nov. 17.  More of China’s companies will “start to look to access
cheap dollar funding, because over the last 10 years Treasury
rates have never been so low,” said  Guy Wylie , head of Asian
debt capital markets at UBS in Hong Kong.  Benchmark two-year U.S. Treasury notes  yielded  0.54 percent
as of 12:10 p.m. in Hong Kong after falling to 0.33 percent on
Nov. 4, the lowest since 1976.  Sinochem, China’s biggest provider of chemical products,
sold $500 million of 6.3 percent bonds due in 2040 on Nov. 4
priced to yield 228 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries, Bloomberg data show. Dow Chemical Co., the world’s
second-biggest chemicals maker, has 9.4 percent debentures
maturing in 2039 that traded at a spread of 212 basis points
that day, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Sovereign Upgrade  Companies with state links will benefit after Moody’s
Investors Service raised China’s sovereign rating to Aa3, its
fourth-highest level, from A1 on Nov. 11, according to Wang at
BOCI Securities. Cnooc was raised to Aa3 the same day.  Jiang Yongzhi , a spokesperson for Cnooc, and  Huang Wensheng ,
a spokesperson for China Petroleum, couldn’t be reached for
comment yesterday on their borrowing plans. A person at China
Cosco’s main office in Beijing, who declined to give his name,
said no one was available for comment.  Elsewhere in credit markets, five-year credit-default swap
contracts on China’s bonds fell 1.4 basis points to 64.2 basis
points yesterday, CMA prices in New York show. The contracts
declined about 15 percent in October following a drop of 19
percent in September.  Credit-Default Swaps  Credit-default swaps typically decline as investor
confidence improves and rise as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a government or company
fail to adhere to debt agreements. Government debt investors
usually buy the contracts to hedge against a rise in yields.  One-year interest-rate  swaps , or the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase  rate , rose four basis
points to 3.06 percent as of 12:23 p.m. in Hong Kong. Five-year
swaps gained two basis points to 3.8425 percent. That rate is up
from this year’s low of 2.68 percent on Aug. 12, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  China’s $1 billion of 4.75 percent notes due in October
2013 yielded 1.69 percent as of 12:20 p.m. in Hong Kong today,
according to Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc prices. Brazil’s
$1.25 billion of 10.25 percent notes maturing in June 2013
yielded 1.6 percent, according to Collins Stewart Plc prices,
while Russia’s $2 billion 3.625 percent due April 2015 yielded
3.25 percent, RBS prices show. India hasn’t sold any dollar
bonds. The four nations comprise the so-called BRIC group of
emerging economies.  The yuan has appreciated 2.6 percent versus the dollar
since a two-year peg was relaxed in June, and non-deliverable
forwards show traders are betting on a 2.1 percent increase in
the coming 12 months. It was mostly unchanged at 6.6516 per
dollar as of 1:42 p.m. in Shanghai, according to the China
Foreign Exchange Trade System.  The yuan-denominated 3.28 percent government bond due
August 2020 yielded 3.9 percent, Interbank Funding Center data
show. China raised its one-year lending and deposit rates by a
quarter of a percentage point on Oct. 19, the first increases
since 2007.  -- Henry Sanderson . Editors:  Hugh Chow ,  Will McSheehy   To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 86-10-6649-7548 or
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  