-- Demonstrators Attack Police Van as U.K. Students Protest Over College Fees
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2010-11-24T17:57:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/students-to-hold-national-protest-against-2012-increase-in-university-fees.html
Demonstrators attacked a police van
and set fire to banners in central London today as an estimated
13,000 students held protests across the U.K. over plans to cut
funding for education and increase university tuition fees.  The unrest broke out close to Downing Street, where Prime
Minister  David Cameron  has his official residence. Fifteen
people were arrested while two police officers were injured, the
 Metropolitan Police  said.  The protests came two weeks after a demonstration in London
by 50,000 students ended in violence. On Nov. 10, activists
broke windows at the 27-story building housing the headquarters
of the ruling Conservative Party and burned effigies of Cameron
and his Liberal Democrat deputy  Nick Clegg .  “We’re not paying any attention to those people who think
the way to win an argument is to damage property and put people
in fear,” Education Secretary  Michael Gove  told Sky News
television.  One police officer suffered a broken arm in the clashes and
another received leg injuries. London Ambulance Service said
they treated eight members of the public for minor injuries.  More than 3,000 students marched in the south coast resort
of Brighton, while about 4,000 people demonstrated in Manchester
and 1,000 in Leeds in northern England, said the National
Campaign Against Fees and Cuts, which called for further
protests on Nov. 30.  ‘Pressure’  In London, more than 5,000 students marched on Whitehall
and 1,000 are currently being contained by police, the group
said in a statement.  “We want to put enough pressure on the government to force
them to back down on their plans,” spokesman Simon Hardy said
in a telephone interview earlier today.  A group of protesters surrounded a police van in Whitehall,
rocking it back and forth and smashing the windscreen with poles
before daubing it with graffiti. Some students entered the van,
while others attempted to stop them vandalizing the vehicle.
Protesters also threw smoke grenades at police officers and
vandalized a bus shelter.  “It’s very unfortunate, not only because of the damage
being done but it also gives a sense of lawlessness and that
things are out of control,”  Brian Paddick , former deputy
assistant commissioner for the Metropolitan Police, said in an
interview behind a police cordon.  Caught Off Guard  Police were caught off guard when the march on Nov. 10
unexpectedly split up, with about 2,000 protesters breaking away
from a peaceful demonstration organised by the National Union of
Students.  Cameron criticized the police for failing to anticipate the
scale of the demonstration, which led to more than 50 arrests
and dozens injured. Today, an 18-year-old student, Edward
Woollard, pleaded guilty to violent disorder after throwing a
fire extinguisher from the roof of the Millbank Tower.  Cameron plans to allow British universities to charge as
much as 9,000 pounds ($14,218) a year for tuition, compared with
the current 3,290 pounds, as the government seeks to cut
subsidies to colleges.  The cuts are part of efforts to slash 81 billion pounds
from public spending by 2015 to narrow the record budget
deficit.  Clegg has become the focus of student anger because his
party had pledged to scrap tuition fees altogether, only to
support an increase after joining the Conservatives in a
coalition government after the May 6 election.  Last night, a group of protesters hung an effigy of Clegg
outside the building in London where he was due to give a
lecture. Clegg used the speech to urge students to examine the
detail of the government policy and call off today’s protests.  “It is not my party’s policy, but it is the best policy
given the choices we face,” Clegg said. “Our plans will mean
that many of the lowest income graduates will repay less than
they do under the current system. And all graduates will pay out
less per month than they do now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Spillane  in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net . 