-- Sudan Independence Referendum May Spark $100 Billion Conflict, Study Show
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2010-11-24T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/sudan-referendum-may-lead-to-100-billion-conflict-group-says.html
A return to conflict in  Sudan  after
an independence referendum in its semi-autonomous southern
region may cost more than $100 billion in lost economic output
and humanitarian and peacekeeping aid, a study said.  Southern Sudan is scheduled to vote on a proposal to secede
on Jan. 9, almost six years after a cease-fire agreement ended
two decades of conflict between the north and south that left 2
million people dead and displaced more than 4 million.  “While oil revenue and wider economic growth provide
substantial financial incentives for leaders on both sides to
resist a return to conflict, the referendum is one of many
issues which could trigger an escalation of violence,” according
to a report commissioned by  Aegis Trust , a London-based charity
that campaigns to stop crimes against humanity around the world.  Sudan, Africa’s largest country by area, is sub-Saharan
Africa’s third-biggest oil producer, according to the  BP
Statistical Review of World Energy . Southern Sudan accounts for
as much as 80 percent of Sudan’s daily output of 490,000
barrels. All of Sudan’s crude exports are carried through a
pipeline running north to Port Sudan on the Red Sea.  Agreement on how to share oil revenue should Southern Sudan
opt for independence is an outstanding issue of the 2005 peace
accord, along with the issue of border demarcation.  Economic Cost  The cost of a conflict to Sudan’s gross domestic product
would be $50 billion, while neighboring countries stand to lose
$25 billion of their GDP and peacekeeping and humanitarian aid
may cost an additional $30 billion, the study said.  “If the oil supply were to be shut down with the outbreak
of civil war, then Sudan would immediately lose 10 percent to 20
percent of its gross domestic product -- equivalent to $6.5
billion to $13 billion in 2010,” the report said. “That amount
would be lost for every year until oil production was restored.”  The study, entitled “The Cost of Future Conflict in Sudan,”
was done by  Frontier Economics Ltd. , a London-based research
company, in conjunction with the Institute for Security Studies,
a Cape Town, South Africa-based organization, and the Society
for International Development in Washington, it said.  Researchers explored cost implications in four post-
referendum cases. They range from a scenario of “peace,” in
which security improves as both sides resolve their differences,
to a “high conflict” situation in which an outcome of succession
is rejected and Sudan descends back into violence.  The majority of southern Sudanese favor independence, the
Washington-based National Democratic Institute said on Oct. 20,
based on a survey of 63 focus group in 48 locations conducted
between Feb. 5 and March 16.  Respect Result  Sudanese President  Umar al-Bashir  and his Southern Sudanese
counterpart,  Salva Kiir , said they will respect the referendum
result, according to an e-mailed statement from Kenya’s
presidency. The leaders made the commitment at a regional
meeting in Ethiopia on Nov. 24, according to the statement.
Kenyan President  Mwai Kibaki  chairs the Inter-Governmental
Authority on Development, or IGAD sub-committee on Sudan.  Any outbreak of war may also have consequences for
neighbors such as  Ethiopia , Uganda and Kenya, deterring
investors and jeopardizing security with a cross-border spill-
over of weapons and fighting, according to the report. Conflict
in Sudan may cost bordering nations about 34 percent of their
projected economic output over a decade, with  Kenya  and Ethiopia
losing as much as $1 billion annually, it said.  Redirected Investment  “While there may be some positive impacts on the region --
from investment being redirected from Sudan to the other
countries -- the evidence suggests that the net impact of
conflict would be significantly negative,” the report said.  Sudan’s economy is forecast to  grow  5.5 percent this year
and 6.2 percent in 2011, compared with 4.5 percent last year,
according to data on the International Monetary Fund’s website.  Groups overseeing the implementation of Sudan’s peace deal
including the African Union, the League of Arab States and IGAD
should ensure the referendum runs smoothly to help prevent Sudan
from plunging into conflict, the report said.  “The analysis suggests that those involved in efforts to
avoid further conflict in Sudan should ask themselves: Are we
doing enough to avoid a war that might cost over $100 billion
and hundreds of thousands of lives?” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 