-- Sweden's Monetary Policy Lacks Credibility, Deputy Governor Svensson Says
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2010-11-24T12:38:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/sweden-s-monetary-policy-lacks-credibility-deputy-governor-svensson-says.html
Swedish central bank policy lacks
credibility as its focus on house-price growth generates higher
interest-rate predictions than market participants indicate are
warranted, Riksbank Deputy Governor  Lars E.O. Svensson  said.  “In my opinion, there are now several problems with
monetary policy in Sweden,” Svensson said in a  speech  published
today on the bank’s website. “The fact that the market repo
rate path differs from the Riksbank’s repo rate path means that
the intended repo rate path is not credible.”  The bank has raised its main rate three times since July,
bringing it to 1 percent last month, and estimates the rate will
average 3.4 percent by the end of 2013. Governor  Stefan Ingves 
has argued Sweden’s economy needs higher borrowing costs to
offset the risk of housing-market imbalances. Property prices
rose for an 18th consecutive period in the three months through
October while credit growth has averaged about 10 percent since
the beginning of 2007.  “No thorough analysis has been made of whether house
prices and indebtedness entail problems or have any significance
for future inflation and resource utilization,” Svensson said.
“At the same time, widespread research points to the policy
rate being an unsuitable instrument for this.”  Inflation  has lagged behind the bank’s 2 percent target
since December 2008. The headline rate touched 1.5 percent in
October and will remain below 2 percent on average in 2011, the
bank predicts. Inflation adjusting for mortgage costs won’t
exceed the bank’s target throughout the forecast horizon, which
goes until the end of 2013.  ‘Very Large Difference’  Svensson and Deputy Governor  Karolina Ekholm  entered
reservations against the Riksbank’s rate path, arguing it was
too steep given the inflation outlook. The bank’s board
comprises six members, including Ingves.  Today’s speech “confirms the very large differences in
opinion between Svensson, and presumably at least partly Ekholm,
and the rest of the board on fundamental monetary policy
issues,” said  Elisabet Kopelman , an economist at SEB AB in
Stockholm, in a note.  Ingves in a Nov. 11 speech said he “personally” tracks
household debt when deciding on rates.  The krona traded 0.3 percent higher against the euro at
9.3001 at 1:36 p.m. in Stockholm. Against the dollar, the krona
gained 0.2 percent to 6.9648.  Since it started providing numerical rate forecasts in 2007,
the Riksbank has revised its rate path 14 times out of 22. The
bank in 2008 raised rates 11 days before the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., only to cut its repo rate by 2.75
percentage points the following quarter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Niklas Magnusson  in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  