-- Swiss Life Announces Plan to Cut Insurer's Dependence on Investment Income
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2010-11-24T16:52:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/swiss-life-announces-plan-to-cut-insurer-s-dependence-on-investment-income.html
Swiss Life Holding AG , Switzerland’s
biggest life insurer, plans to cut its reliance on investment
income in a bid to reduce earnings volatility.  We want to “reduce the dependency on capital markets to a
profit contribution of below 50 percent,” the Zurich-based
company said today in an investor presentation. Swiss Life
expects investment income to account for 80 percent to 90
percent of operating profit this year, down from about 95
percent in 2009. The insurer declined to give a breakdown of
investment income.  Swiss Life plans to cut the “relative importance” of
investment income by increasing earnings from  AWD Holding AG ,
the German financial-services broker acquired in 2008, and its
wrapper business that sells life products to wealthy clients,
Chief Financial Officer  Thomas Buess  said on the sidelines of
the presentation. The insurer is 65 percent through a program to
cut costs by as much as 400 million Swiss francs ($401 million).  “Swiss Life is on track to thoroughly restructuring its
business model, taking out cost and improving efficiency,
improving underlying profitability,”  Stefan Schuermann , a
Zurich-based analyst with Vontobel who has a “buy” rating on
the stock, in a note to investors.  Swiss Life fell 1.3 percent to 118 francs, cutting the
company’s market value to 3.78 billion francs. The stock has
dropped almost 11 percent this year.  Swiss Life reiterated its forecast of meeting 2012 goals
for return on equity and new business margin, adding that the
latter faced a “headwind” from the interest rate environment.
Low rates have put pressure on margins after insurers offered
policyholders rate guarantees before the beginning of the credit
crisis.  “If interest rates decrease further we will be in a
difficult position, because we have to cut guarantees,” Chief
Executive Officer  Bruno Pfister  said during the presentation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carolyn Bandel  in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  