-- Syswin Declines on Debut as Chinese IPOs Lose Momentum in U.S. Trading
-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 2010-11-25T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/syswin-anacor-pharmaceuticals-complete-reduced-ipos-as-u-s-stocks-slump.html
Syswin Inc. , a Beijing-based real-
estate agency, slid 11 percent in its New York Stock Exchange
debut, becoming the latest Chinese company to retreat this month
following a U.S. initial public offering.  Syswin’s American depositary receipts declined  80 cents  to
$6.20 yesterday after the company sold 9.6 million ADRs at $7
each. The provider of services to property developers in 17
Chinese cities had already reduced the size of the IPO by as
much as 50 percent,  filings  with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission and data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The sale was scheduled to be the last in the busiest month
for IPOs of Chinese companies in the U.S. since at least 2000,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. While mainland companies have
accounted for three of the ten best performances among initial
offerings on New York exchanges this year, the eight Chinese
IPOs completed in November have gained 19 percentage points less
than the average for 2010 amid concern that the country’s
measures to curb inflation will slow its economy.  “Nobody is particularly excited to take a bunch of risk
and buy an IPO,” said  Timothy Cunningham , a money manager at
Santa Fe, New Mexico-based Thornburg Investment Management,
which oversees about $70 billion. “China was ground zero for
the hot IPO market. Those deals are going to get a little more
scrutiny now.”  China Xiniya, SinoTech  Syswin’s retreat followed a  9.6 percent  first-day slide on
Nov. 23 for  China Xiniya Fashion Ltd. , a designer of men’s
business clothes in China’s Fujian province. Beijing-based
 SinoTech Energy Ltd. , which provides equipment and services to
boost production from oil fields in China, tumbled 19 percent on
Nov. 3, the biggest first-day decline for an IPO on U.S.
exchanges this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Concern that China’s efforts to curb inflation and Europe’s
debt crisis will slow the global economy’s rebound from the
worst recession since World War II has weighed on shares of
mainland companies from New York to Hong Kong this week.  China’s government has stepped up a campaign to limit
credit expansion in the past month as property prices surged.
The country’s  biggest banks  are poised to hit government-set
caps on lending and plan to stop expanding their loan books to
avoid exceeding the annual quotas, according to four people with
knowledge of the matter.  China Datang Corp.  the nation’s second-largest power
producer, is delaying the IPO of its renewable energy unit in
Hong Kong, two people with knowledge of the plan said yesterday.
Market conditions are affecting the valuation of the planned $1
billion IPO, they said.  Hong Kong IPOs  China New Materials Holdings Ltd., a chemical maker in
eastern China, canceled its IPO press conference yesterday and
has delayed its Hong Kong offering for at least two days, two
people with knowledge of that sale said. Shanghai-based  China
Rongsheng Heavy Industries Group Holdings Ltd. , which completed
the fourth-biggest offering in Hong Kong this year, declined 12
percent from its Nov. 19 debut through yesterday.  Syswin will use the proceeds from its IPO to expand its
business and for acquisitions, according to the filing.  The company’s  revenue  rose 53 percent to $64.5 million in
the first nine months of 2010 from a year earlier, the filing
showed. Net income increased 46 percent to $19.8 million.  Chinese IPOs had rallied this year in U.S. trading as the
country posted the fastest growth among the world’s major
economies. The nation’s economy will grow 9 percent next year,
more than three times as fast as the U.S., according to
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Indiscriminate Buying’  Mainland companies that went public in the first ten months
of 2010 on U.S. exchanges have gained an average of 34 percent,
compared with 15 percent for the eight that priced offerings in
November, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We used to have a few weeks ago these sentiment-driven
IPO pricings whereby you see indiscriminate buying of Chinese
ADRs,” said  Josef Schuster , the Chicago-based founder of IPOX
Capital Management LLC, which oversees $3 billion. “But it’s
becoming much more selective.”  ChinaCache International Holdings Ltd. , the Beijing-based
provider of content for business websites, had the biggest
first-day rally on U.S. exchanges in three years on Oct. 1,
jumping 95 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  SouFun Holdings Ltd. , the Beijing-based operator of China’s
largest property website, surged 73 percent on Sept. 17 after
selling its $125 million IPO at the top of the forecast range.  China Dangdang, Youku.com  E-Commerce China Dangdang Inc. , a Beijing-based Internet
retailer, plans to sell 17 million ADRs at $11 to $13 each on
Dec. 7 in an offering led by Credit Suisse Group AG of Zurich
and New York-based Morgan Stanley, according to an SEC  filing 
this week and data compiled by Bloomberg.  Revenue for the seller of books and beauty and home
products grew  56 percent  to $235 million in the nine months
ended Sept. 30 from a year earlier, the prospectus said. China
Dangdang had net income of $2.39 million in the first three
quarters of 2010 after posting a loss a year earlier.  Youku.com Inc. , China’s biggest online video company, will
seek to raise $169 million the same day selling 15.4 million
ADRs at $9 to $11 each, according to the Beijing-based company’s
SEC filing and data compiled by Bloomberg.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  of New York will arrange the sale.
Youku.com will use proceeds to upgrade technology, buy video
content, and expand sales and marketing, the prospectus said.  Anacor, GM  Separately,  Anacor Pharmaceuticals Inc. , the Palo Alto,
California-based developer of small-molecule therapeutics,
climbed 1.8 percent to $5.09 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading
yesterday after raising $60 million. The company originally
sought as much as $84.6 million.  The offerings from Anacor and Syswin were scheduled to be
the last in the biggest month for U.S. IPOs since March 2008,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Companies from Detroit-based
 General Motors Co.  to  LPL Investment Holdings Inc.  raised more
than $18 billion combined in November as the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index reached a two-year high on Nov. 5 before retreating.  GM  sold $15.8 billion of common shares last week in the
second-largest U.S. IPO on record, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Boston-based LPL, the brokerage and investment advisory
firm owned by TPG Capital and  Hellman & Friedman LLC , raised
$517 million including its overallotment option.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cecile Vannucci  in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 