-- U.K.'s Osborne Seeks EU Support for Banker Compensation Disclosure Rules
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2010-11-25T02:42:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/u-k-s-osborne-to-seek-eu-backing-for-bank-pay-disclosure-rules.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer   George Osborne  is seeking support from European Union finance ministers
for a British plan to disclose the pay of high-earning bankers,
a spokesman for the Treasury said.  Osborne this week will write to  Michel Barnier , the
European Union’s financial services commissioner, and the
ministers asking them to back a plan that would force banks in
the 27-nation region to reveal more details about their
compensation practices, the spokesman said yesterday.  The letter will endorse recommendations by  Morgan Stanley
senior adviser   David Walker , who last year said banks should
disclose the number of individuals who earn more than 1 million
pounds ($1.6 million), added the spokesman, who declined to be
identified because the letter has not yet been sent.  Osborne came under pressure from unions and opposition
lawmakers earlier this week following media reports that he was
considering watering down Walker’s plans. European banks are
also under pressure to reduce compensation amid public anger
about the taxpayer money used to bail out lenders since the
credit crisis.  Brendan Barber , general secretary of the  Trades Union
Congress  which represents about 6 million workers, said earlier
this week that it’s “business as usual” for bonuses and that
banks are “calling the shots” when it come to designing new
bonus rules. The Treasury spokesman said Osborne may still
implement the plan at home even if he doesn’t get EU support.  Employee Earnings  Walker, whose report was commissioned by the previous
Labour administration, said banks should disclose the number of
employees earning 1 million pounds to 2.5 million pounds, 2.5
million pounds to 5 million pounds and more than 5 million
pounds.  The proposals recommended that cash, shares and pension
contributions be disclosed, although workers would not be
identified personally. This week he wrote in a letter in the
Financial Times that his plan should only go ahead with European
backing.  Earlier this month, the U.K.  Financial Services Authority 
proposed rules that would force banks to publish details about
bonus payouts at least once a year. Banks would be required to
disclose how they link pay to performance, the “rationale for
variable compensation” as well as information on the total
bonus pool, the FSA said.  Walker’s proposals would be included in the EU’s Capital
Requirement Directive 3 or in CRD 4 which is due next year.
Osborne may also seek backing from Group of 20 nations and the
Financial Stability Board, the Treasury spokesman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gonzalo Vina  in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  