-- U.K. Export Growth Helps Economy Extend Rebound as Consumer Spending Slows
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2010-11-24T10:06:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/u-k-export-growth-helps-economy-extend-rebound-as-consumer-spending-slows.html
U.K. export growth helped the
economy extend its recovery in the third quarter as growth in
consumer, government and investment spending slowed by more than
half.  Gross domestic product  rose 0.8 percent from the previous
three months, when it increased 1.2 percent, the Office for
National Statistics said today in London. That matched an
initial estimate on Aug. 26 and the median forecast of 30
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Exports rose 2.2 percent
after a 2.3 percent increase in the previous three months.  Momentum in the economy may wane as the government
implements the biggest budget squeeze since World War II and
strains in Ireland, the U.K.’s fifth-biggest export market, and
the euro area deepen. The outlook has divided Bank of England
policy makers as they debate whether to expand bond purchases or
raise the key interest rate to tame inflation.  “The economy has to get past the fiscal tightening next
year and there’s a high degree of uncertainty on how 2011 will
unfold,” said  Philip Shaw , chief economist at Investec
Securities in London. “The news on exports is encouraging, but
we’ve had false dawns before.”  Net Trade Boost  Consumer-spending  growth slowed to 0.3 percent in the third
quarter from 0.7 percent in the previous three months, the
statistics office said. Government spending rose 0.4 percent,
down from 1 percent, and investment growth eased to 0.6 percent
from 1.4 percent. Imports rose 0.7 percent and net trade
contributed 0.4 percentage points to GDP. Inventories added 0.1
percentage points.  The pound was little changed against the dollar after the
data were published, and was at $1.5781 as of 9:51 a.m. in
London.  A separate report showed business investment fell 0.2
percent in the third quarter from the previous three months. It
was up 4.6 percent from a year earlier. An index of services in
September rose 0.6 percent from the previous month.  The euro-area economy is also cooling.  GDP growth  slowed to
0.4 percent in the third quarter from 1 percent in the previous
three months. In the U.S., where the Federal Reserve pledged
this month to buy $600 billion in Treasury securities, growth
was an annual 2.5 percent in the third quarter, data yesterday
showed. While that was above an initial estimate, it has not
been enough to bring down an unemployment rate hovering near 10
percent.  Economic ‘Ingredients’  As the euro-area’s debt crisis mounted over the past month,
Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  noted the risk to the U.K.
from the region, saying on Nov. 16 that growth in the currency
area is “a very important ingredient” to U.K. prospects.  A day after Ireland sought aid from the European Union on
Nov. 21, Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  pledged
billions of pounds to help the country shore up its finances.
Osborne said trade and banking links mean it’s in Britain’s
interest to provide support.  The U.K.’s “underlying growth seems to be pretty strong,”
 Philip Rush , an economist at Nomura International Plc in London,
said before the data. Still “there are clear headwinds in the
first half of 2011. Ireland is a concern, particularly around
how it may drag down net trade.”  Asian Demand  Growth in Asia and other emerging markets is helping to
drive export demand. Bath, England-based  Rotork Plc , a maker of
industrial valve controls, said on Nov. 19 that orders rose 28
percent in the third quarter from a year earlier. The company
said it expects weakness in Europe and more activity in Asia in
water and power markets.  Still, consumer spending may remain under pressure.
 Mitchells & Butlers Plc , the U.K. owner of the All Bar One
chain, said yesterday that the outlook for consumer spending
“remains uncertain’” due to the fiscal squeeze and a planned
sales-tax increase.  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
said on Nov. 18 that U.K. growth will “remain subdued” next
year as the spending cuts bite. The government’s plans to reduce
the deficit to 2 percent of economic output by 2015 from more
than 10 percent today involve 490,000 public-sector job losses
and sweeping welfare cuts.  Nevertheless, the economy will gain momentum in 2012 as the
global recovery drives exports and higher business confidence
spurs corporate investment, the OECD said. The Paris-based group
said the central bank should start rising the key rate from a
record low of 0.5 percent in the second half of 2011.  Bank Split  Bank of England policy makers split three ways on the need
for further stimulus in the economy for a second month at their
November meeting.  Adam Posen  maintained a call to increase the
200 billion-pound ($316 billion) bond-purchase plan by 50
billion pounds, while  Andrew Sentance  continued a push to raise
the key rate from 0.5 percent as inflation held above the
government’s 3 percent upper limit.  “While the economy is performing reasonably well, the
majority of the committee will be happy to keep policy on
hold,” Investec’s Shaw said.  Sentance and Posen, along with King, will answer questions
from U.K. lawmakers in London tomorrow on the bank’s quarterly
economic forecasts.  To contact the reporter on this story
 Jennifer Ryan  in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  