-- U.S. Trading Probe Puts Research, Expert Networks in Spotlight
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n ,   A n t h o n y   E f f i n g e r   a n d   S r e e   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 2010-11-24T20:21:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/u-s-insider-trading-probe-puts-research-expert-networks-into-spotlight.html
John Kinnucan ’s questioning by the
FBI in a broad insider-trading investigation has put the
spotlight on money managers and their use of a burgeoning breed
of firms selling research and access to industry experts.  Kinnucan runs Broadband Research LLC from his home in
Portland, Oregon, digging up data on technology companies for
hedge funds and mutual funds looking for an edge in the stock
market. Several firms he identified as clients, including SAC
Capital Advisors LP, Wellington Management Co. and  Janus Capital
Group Inc. , have been asked for documents as part of the federal
probe in which three hedge funds were raided on Nov. 22.  “My contacts are the foot soldiers and the worker bees of
the industry,” Kinnucan, who was interviewed by agents of the
Federal Bureau of Investigation last month, said in an interview
yesterday.  Kinnucan, 53, is a small competitor in an industry led by
companies like New York-based Gerson Lehrman Group Inc. and
Guidepoint Global LLC, which link investors with research and
experts in a range of sectors, countries and thousands of
individual companies. The detailed information they provide on
product development, sales and company strategy complement, and
sometimes supplant, conventional research provided by Wall
Street firms.  Chu’s Arrest  U.S. authorities in New York today arrested Don Ching Trang
Chu, who worked for an expert-networking firm, on charges that
he arranged for insiders at publicly traded companies to
improperly provide information to hedge-fund clients. Chu was
employed by Primary Global Research LLC, based in Mountain View,
California, according to a person with knowledge of the
investigation.  In a complaint unsealed today, prosecutors say Chu, 56,
established a relationship with  Richard Choo-Beng Lee , a former
partner at San Jose, California-based Spherix Capital LLC who
was employed as an analyst by SAC Capital Advisors LLC, the $12
billion hedge fund run by  Steven A. Cohen , from 1999 to 2004.  Dan Charnas , a Primary Global spokesman, said he couldn’t
immediately comment.  Richard Bove , an analyst at Rochdale Securities LLC in
Lutz, Florida, said he’s concerned that the investigation by the
U.S. Attorney in New York and the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission may result in criminalizing legitimate research that
gives one investor an advantage over another.  Crossing the Line  “I have an obligation to find out everything I can to
protect my clients that invest in a stock,” Bove said. “When
am I crossing the line? If I get information that no one else
has, am I therefore not supposed to act on it?”  Insider trading involves the buying or selling of stock
using material, nonpublic information.  Expert networks can include former employees of companies
being examined, professors and doctors,  Geoff Bobroff , an
independent fund consultant in East Greenwich, Rhode Island,
said in a telephone interview. Bobroff is part of Gerson
Lehrman’s network.  Bobroff said the use of experts has risen in conjunction
with the decline of traditional Wall Street research. Because of
mergers, investment banks such as Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
Morgan Stanley now account for far fewer equity analysts than
they did 10 or 15 years ago, he said.  Wall Street was also placed under greater regulatory
restrictions after 10 firms collectively paid $1.4 billion in
2003 to settle claims they slanted their research to win banking
business.  “This clearly was an outgrowth of the Wall Street
settlement on proprietary research,” Bobroff said.  Kinnucan’s Research  Kinnucan, who has not been accused of wrongdoing, said
there is nothing inappropriate about his research.  He said the FBI arrived at his house on Oct. 25 and
questioned him about his research. Agents told him one of his
contacts, an independent sales representative for a
semiconductor company, was in legal trouble. They threatened to
arrest Kinnucan, he said, and asked him to wear a wire to record
a conversation with a money manager. He declined to name the
investor, saying agents told him that would be obstruction of
justice.  “They threatened to arrest me about three times,”
Kinnucan said in an interview.  All of his clients have left him since he told them about
the FBI’s visit in an e-mail, he said.  James Margolin , a spokesman for the FBI, didn’t immediately
return a phone call seeking comment.  Network Growth  Justin Dini , a spokesman for Gerson Lehrman, and  James Fingeroth , a spokesman for Guidepoint Global in New York,
declined to comment. Bloomberg LP, the parent company of
Bloomberg News, has a marketing relationship with Gerson
Lehrman.  The number of expert networks in the U.S. has grown to
about 40 this year from about eight in 2001,  Michael Mayhew ,
chairman of Integrity Research Associates in New York, said in
an interview.  Expert networks took in about $450 million to $500 million
in combined revenue in the past year, according to estimates
from Mayhew, whose firm has published reports on the industry.  Gerson Lehrman, based in New York, operates the largest
network and has 60 percent of the market, he said. Its database
has more than 250,000 experts worldwide, according to the
company’s website.  Client Fees  The most expensive expert networks charge their clients an
annual fee as high as $120,000 for each industry group. Others
collect hourly fees that can reach $1,000 for consultations with
experts, according to Mayhew.  Burton Greenwald , an independent fund-industry consultant
in Philadelphia, is part of three networks including Gerson
Lehrman’s, usually providing hedge-fund managers with
information and his analysis on listed investment-management
companies, he said.  “I’ve found the networks make an honest and vigorous
effort to make sure nonpublic information is not disclosed to
the clients who use their services,” he said. “I have to sign
an agreement with Gerson that I won’t talk about anyone who is
my employer or about nonpublic information.”  Greenwald said the phone calls arranged by the networks
aren’t monitored by the firms that set them up and,
theoretically, could be abused by investors seeking insider
information.  ‘Wild West’  “The top tier hedge funds may not do this, but I think
when you get down to lesser players, you’re in the Wild West,”
he said.  The FBI recently questioned an account manager at Primary
Global, the Wall Street Journal reported yesterday on its
website, citing people familiar with the matter. FBI agent B.J.
Kang, who was involved in last year’s Galleon Group insider-
trading case, asked most of the questions, the newspaper said.  The company hasn’t been named as the target of an
investigation and isn’t accused of wrongdoing, Charnas said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement to Bloomberg News.  “Should we be asked, we intend to cooperate fully with the
authorities,” he said.  SAC Capital, and Wellington Management, the Boston-based
money manager that oversees $598 billion, received requests for
information from investigators, people familiar with the matter,
who asked not to be identified because the firms are private,
said yesterday.  Jonathan Gasthalter , a spokesman for Stamford,
Connecticut-based SAC, and Sara Lou Sherman, a Wellington
spokeswoman, declined to comment.  FBI Raids  Janus said yesterday in an e-mailed statement that it got a
request for general information and will cooperate with the
inquiry. The Denver-based firm didn’t identify which agency made
the inquiry.  None of the research firms or money managers has been
accused of wrongdoing.  FBI agents two days ago searched the offices of Level
Global Investors LP and Diamondback Capital Management LLC. Both
hedge funds were founded by former employees of SAC. A third
hedge fund, Boston-based Loch Capital Management, was also
searched by agents, according to a person familiar with that
matter.  Kinnucan, who started Broadband in 1998, said competition
among expert networks is fierce these days as research firms
like his are proliferating.  “There is a new one every day,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christopher Condon  in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net ;
 Anthony Effinger  in Portland, Oregon, at 
 aeffinger@bloomberg.net ;
 Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam  in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 