-- U.S. Home Prices Fell 3.2% in Third Quarter, FHFA Says
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2010-11-24T16:29:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/u-s-home-prices-fell-3-2-in-third-quarter-on-tax-credit-end-fhfa-says.html
U.S. home prices fell 3.2 percent in
the third quarter from a year earlier as demand weakened without
federal tax credits, the Federal Housing Finance Agency said.  The Atlanta area led declines among the 25 largest
metropolitan regions, with a 10 percent slump, the FHFA said in
a  statement . Prices rose 4.6 percent in the San Diego area for
the biggest gain, according to the agency, which measures  sales 
of homes with mortgages backed by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac.  Home sales fell to record-low levels after the April 30
expiration of a tax credit of as much as $8,000 for buyers. An
overhang of distressed properties and an unemployment rate
hovering near 10 percent will likely cause more price declines,
according to  Celia Chen , an analyst with Moody’s Analytics Inc.
in West Chester, Pennsylvania.  “Our overall expectations for home prices is that they’ll
drop by another 8 percent by the third quarter of next year,”
she said in a telephone interview before the FHFA report.  Measured from June 30, prices fell 1.6 percent, the
Washington-based FHFA said. Economists had projected prices
would decrease 1.1 percent, according to the average of 15
estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Foreclosure Moratorium  The FHFA data doesn’t reflect the impact of a foreclosure
freeze by loan servicers including  Bank of America Corp.  and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co ., which suspended the seizure and resale of
many delinquent homes starting in September to investigate
allegations they used faulty paperwork. Existing-home sales sank
2.2 percent in October as the moratoriums disrupted the market,
the National Association of Realtors reported yesterday.  The  median price  of an existing home was $170,500 in
October, down 0.6 percent from September and 0.9 percent from a
year earlier, the Realtors group said.  Today’s FHFA report is based on repeat sales data that
compares prices of the same properties over time. The regulatory
agency doesn’t provide a specific price.  Prices fell in 40 states in the third quarter from a year
earlier, led by Idaho, Georgia, Arizona, Oregon and South
Carolina, the FHFA said. Ten states and the District of Columbia
had gains.  The national price index dropped 0.7 percent in September
from August. Prices from July to August, previously reported as
a 0.4 percent increase, were revised to unchanged.  The FHFA supervises  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , which were
put under government conservatorship in 2008. It also oversees
the nation’s 12 Federal Home Loan Banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 