-- U.S. Economy: Spending Rises, Jobless Claims Decline
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s   a n d   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2010-11-24T21:11:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/u-s-consumer-spending-rises-for-fifth-month-as-incomes-rebound.html
Americans increased spending for a
fifth month in October and filed the fewest unemployment  claims 
in more than two years last week, pointing to strength in the
largest part of the economy as the fourth quarter began.  Household purchases advanced 0.4 percent after a 0.3
percent gain in September that was larger than previously
estimated, the Commerce Department reported today in Washington.
 Incomes  climbed 0.5 percent. Jobless claims fell by 34,000 to
407,000 in the week ended Nov. 20, Labor Department figures
showed.  Stocks rallied and Treasuries declined as the reports,
along with a better-than-forecast increase in consumer
sentiment, boosted the outlook for holiday-season spending at
retailers including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  A slowdown in inflation
validated the Federal Reserve’s case for a second round of
unconventional monetary stimulus.  “It really looks like a recovery here,” said  Mark Vitner ,
a senior economist at Wells Fargo Securities LLC in Charlotte,
North Carolina. “Wages and salaries are strengthening, and we
have really good momentum going into the holiday season.”  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  rose 1.5 percent to
1,198.35 at the 4 p.m. close in New York. The yield on the
benchmark 10-year note increased to 2.92 percent from 2.78
percent late yesterday.  The median estimate of 77 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News called for a 0.5 percent advance in consumer spending.
Jobless claims were forecast to fall to 435,000, a separate
survey showed.  Consumer Sentiment  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index of
November consumer  sentiment  increased to 71.6, the highest since
June, from 67.7 a month earlier. The preliminary November figure
was 69.3. Economists projected a reading of 69.5.  Other reports today from the Commerce Department showed
that orders for goods meant to last several years and new-home
sales both unexpectedly decreased in October, illustrating the
uneven nature of the recovery from the worst recession since the
Great Depression.  Demand for so-called  durable goods  dropped 3.3 percent
after a revised 5 percent jump in September that was larger than
previously estimated. Purchases of new homes decreased 8.1
percent to a 283,000 annual rate. Sales reached a 275,000 pace
in August, the lowest since data collection began in 1963.  Retailers are projecting a better holiday shopping period
and are increasing discounts to attract more consumers. The
National Retail Federation has forecast November-December
holiday sales will rise by 2.3 percent from a year ago, the most
since 2006.  Black Friday  Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart, the world’s largest
retailer, said this week it will match prices listed in
competitors’ ads on Black Friday, the day after the Nov. 25
Thanksgiving holiday. Savings will run through Nov. 27, with
deals on electronics, home items and apparel.  Auto dealers are among retailers seeing stronger demand.
Car sales in October rose to a 12.25 million unit annual pace,
the highest since the government’s cash-for-clunkers program in
August 2009, industry data showed this month.  “The sales rate has been improving at a modest rate, each
quarter moving up a little bit,”  George Pipas , U.S. sales
analyst at Ford Motor Co., said on a Nov. 3 conference call.
“October’s results suggest that that trend could continue in
the fourth quarter.”  Views on Unemployment  Still, the labor market may not be healing fast enough to
push down joblessness lingering near a 26-year high. While
Americans said news about the job market was more favorable in
November, most don’t expect much improvement in the unemployment
rate, according to today’s University of Michigan survey.  “The jobs recovery is not going to be accelerating any
time soon,” said  David Resler , chief economist at Nomura
Securities International Inc. in New York. “I don’t see a
significant recovery to the jobs that have been lost” during
the recession that ended in June of last year.  Fed policy makers raised their unemployment forecasts for
the fourth quarter of next year to a range of 8.9 percent to 9.1
percent, compared with 8.3 percent to 8.7 percent in their
previous forecast in June, according to minutes of their Nov. 2-
3 meeting released yesterday.  At the meeting, policy makers led by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  decided to buy $600 billion of Treasury securities
through June in a bid to reduce unemployment and keep the
inflation rate from falling further.  Today’s personal-spending report showed that wages and
salaries advanced 0.6 percent in October, the biggest gain since
May. Disposable incomes, or the money left over after taxes,
rose 0.3 percent after adjusting for inflation.  Savings Rate  The  savings rate  increased to 5.7 percent from 5.6 percent,
even as spending climbed, showing how growing incomes are
helping American households repair tattered finances.  The Fed’s preferred price measure, which excludes food and
fuel, was unchanged from the prior month and was up 0.9 percent
from a year earlier, the smallest gain since records began in
1960. Adjusted for inflation, which is the figure used to
calculate gross domestic product, consumer spending increased
0.3 percent after a 0.2 percent increase the prior month.  Bookings for durable goods excluding transportation
equipment decreased 2.7 percent in October. They were forecast
to increase 0.6 percent, according to the Bloomberg survey.  Orders for  non-defense capital goods  excluding aircraft,
considered a proxy for future business investment, fell 4.5
percent after a 1.9 percent gain in September. The government
had previously estimated such orders dropped 0.2 percent in
September.  The swings in orders for capital goods may reflect calendar
effects that the government isn’t able to capture with its
seasonal adjustments, economists said.  “Business investment is slowing, but the numbers we got
today might overstate the magnitude,” said  Brian Jones , an
economist at Societe Generale in New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net ;
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  