-- U.S. Said to Consider Scrapping Color-Coded Terror Alerts Used at Airports
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2010-11-24T19:50:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/u-s-may-scrap-color-coded-terror-warnings-administration-official-says.html
The U.S. Homeland Security
Department may abandon its eight-year-old system of assigning
colors to terrorist threat levels that has been criticized by
U.S. lawmakers and lampooned on “Saturday Night Live.”  The agency, which created the system following the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks, hasn’t changed the threat color since 2006.
The senior administration official who spoke about the
prospective change today declined to be identified because the
decision isn’t final.  The system may be discontinued as the department’s
Transportation Security Administration grapples with the threat
of airline passenger protests during the U.S. Thanksgiving
holiday over new full-body imaging and pat-down procedures at
airport security checkpoints. TSA chief  John Pistole , in an
interview Nov. 19 at Bloomberg’s Washington office, said his
agency should have communicated better with the public about the
checkpoint changes.  “I am unable to characterize the content of
recommendations under review,” said  Amy Kudwa , a spokeswoman
for the Homeland Security Department. “We are committed to
providing specific, actionable information based on the latest
intelligence.”  Travelers had complained about the five-tiered system,
which was never lowered to green or blue, the bottom two levels.
In its eight years, it has fluctuated between yellow for
“elevated” and orange for “high,” once reaching red for
“severe” in August 2006. The threat level was lowered to
orange that same month and has remained there.  Six Shades of Beige  In March 2002, after the color-coded system was introduced,
NBC’s “Saturday Night Live,” a weekly television comedy,
performed a satirical skit in which a cast member portraying a
Homeland Security official described a color-coded system
consisting of six shades of beige.  Representative  Jane Harman , a California Democrat who has
served on the House Intelligence Committee, called the system
“meaningless” in a 2009 interview, echoing a finding in a 2003
report by the Congressional Research Service, a nonpartisan arm
of the Library of Congress.  The  Air Transport Association , which represents major U.S.
passenger airlines, doesn’t have a position on the terror alert
system or whether it is changed, said  David Castelveter , a
spokesman.  “I don’t expect that it would change the travel experience
or the security check-in processes,” Castelveter, whose group
is based in Washington, said in an interview. “I doubt very
much that decision will affect the security screening
processes.”  The change was reported by the Associated Press earlier
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Angela Greiling Keane  in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernie Kohn at   bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 