-- UBS Is Sued for $2 Billion by Madoff Trustee Picard on Fraud Allegations
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2010-11-24T15:23:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/ubs-sued-for-2-billion-in-lawsuit-by-madoff-trustee-picard-claiming-fraud.html
UBS AG  was sued and accused of fraud
by the trustee overseeing the liquidation of  Bernard L. Madoff ’s
investment firm, who is seeking to recover at least $2 billion
for victims of the con man’s Ponzi scheme.  Irving H. Picard , trustee for the liquidation of Bernard L.
Madoff Investment Securities LLC, said today he aims to recoup
redemptions and fees from Zurich-based  UBS  as well as damages
and disgorgement.  “Madoff’s scheme could not have been accomplished unless
UBS had agreed not only to look the other way, but also to
pretend that they were truly ensuring the existence of assets
and trades when in fact they were not and never did,”  David J. Sheehan , a partner at Baker & Hostetler LLP and counsel for
Picard, said in an e-mailed statement.  The complaint, filed yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
New York, alleges 23 counts of financial fraud and misconduct
against UBS “and related entities and individuals.” The full
complaint was filed under seal, followed by a redacted version
blanking out information deemed confidential by UBS,
Switzerland’s largest bank.  “We have battled with UBS regarding disclosure of
information about the bank’s knowledge of Madoff,” Picard said
in today’s statement. “We intend to move to have that
designation removed and the complaint made public as soon as
possible.”  UBS Spokeswoman  Kelly Smith , a spokeswoman for UBS, said in an e-mailed
message that the company had no immediate comment on the
lawsuit.  The complaint, in addition to UBS, names the bank’s UBS
(Luxembourg) SA unit. UBS is accused of assisting Madoff through
its role in feeder funds including  LuxAlpha Sicav  and Groupement
Financier Ltd.  As custodian of the funds, the Luxembourg unit was charged
with overseeing them and managing deposits and payments to
investors. UBS ignored signs of the fraud and made Madoff the
sub-custodian of the funds’ assets, allowing him “to run an
operation with no checks or balances,” according to the
complaint.  LuxAlpha, which lost 95 percent of its approximately
$1.4 billion in assets, was dissolved four months after Madoff’s
arrest in December 2008. Liquidators for LuxAlpha are suing UBS
and Ernst & Young LLP, the fund’s auditor, seeking the return of
the lost assets.  Previous Suits  UBS and its local units have been sued for damages and
compensation in more than 100 Luxembourg cases by investors who
lost millions of dollars through the funds. UBS was also the
target of a probe by prosecutors over allegations of forgery
tied to funds linked to Madoff.  The Luxembourg liquidators said in May in a letter to
investors obtained by Bloomberg News that Picard is taking steps
that may have a “significant effect” on recoveries and that
they will “resist” his requests for documents that may
identify LuxAlpha investors.  The Luxembourg liquidators may be the last resort for
investors to recoup some of the millions LuxAlpha lost after a
March 4 ruling by Luxembourg’s commercial court that liquidators
alone can recover capital assets.  Picard previously filed about 20 lawsuits seeking to
recover more than $15.5 billion from parties related to Madoff,
including his friends and family, and from so-called feeder
funds, which directed most or all of their clients’ money to the
confessed swindler.  Madoff, 72, was charged with securities fraud for directing
the biggest Ponzi scheme in U.S. history. He pleaded guilty in
March 2009 and is serving a 150-year prison sentence.  At the time of his arrest, Madoff’s account statements
reflected 4,900 accounts with $65 billion in nonexistent
investments. Investors lost about $20 billion in principal.  The case is Picard v. UBS AG, 10-ap-4285, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Phil Milford  in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephanie Bodoni  in Luxembourg
at   sbodoni@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 