-- Hungary to Strip Private Pension Fund Members of State Pensions Benefits
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2010-11-24T16:46:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/hungary-to-strip-private-pension-fund-members-of-state-pensions-benefits.html
Hungary will strip private pension
fund members of their state pensions unless they move retirement
savings back to the government-run program, Economy Minister
 Gyorgy Matolcsy  said today in Budapest.  The directive is part of the government’s effort to do away
with the mandatory private pension system and move 3 trillion
forint ($14.6 billion) of assets managed by the funds into the
state budget to reduce public debt. Hungary has since 1998 had
private funds that manage employees’ mandatory pension
contributions, as well as the state-run system.  “It’s unprecedented in Europe that a government is
threatening to kick its own citizens out of the state pension
system,”  Zoltan Torok , a Budapest-based economist at Raiffeisen
Bank International AG, said in a phone interview. “It’s
probably enough to ensure that no one is going to stay in the
private pension fund system in his or her right mind.”  Hungary is ending mandatory private pension funds after the
European Union rebuffed a request by nine member states to be
allowed to lower debt and  deficit  figures by the amount of
transfers to the funds. People who opt to stay in the private
funds will lose the 70 percent of their future pension claim
that would have been paid by the state, Matolcsy said.  “It’s possible to make this decision but it has grave
consequences for the future because that person is opting out of
the state pension system,” Matolcsy told reporters today in
Budapest.  ‘Effectively a Nationalization’  Three million Hungarians have mandatory private pension
funds. They have until Jan. 31 to decide whether to switch their
holdings to the state. Their assets will be automatically
shifted to the state system after that date, unless they
expressly declare otherwise, Matolcsy said.  “This is effectively a nationalization of private pension
funds,”  David Nemeth , a Budapest-based economist at ING Groep
NV in Budapest, said in a phone interview.  Hungarian employers pay 24 percent of each employee’s
salary into the state pension system, while workers pay 10
percent.  Expelling private pension fund members from the state
system means employees staying with the private pension funds
will lose social security contributions their employers pay to
the state. The government would continue to transfer the
contributions made by employees to the funds.  The government is offering a cash incentive to switch
private pension assets back to the state. Members whose returns
exceeded the average inflation rate will be compensated in cash
on the difference, Matolcsy said. The government estimates the
overall compensation payout will be as much as 120 billion
forint, Matolcsy said.  Authorities will also start investigating private pension
funds to see whether investors’ assets “are still there,”
Matolcsy said.  “We hope so,” he said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Zoltan Simon at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  