-- Hungarian Government Looks to Seize Control of Appointing Policy Makers
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2010-11-24T13:36:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/hungarian-government-looks-to-seize-control-of-appointing-policy-makers.html
Hungary’s government, which has
urged the central bank to loosen monetary policy, drafted
legislation that would give Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s ruling
party control of a majority of the appointments to the interest-
rate setting  Monetary Council .  The bill would empower Parliament’s Economy Committee,
dominated by Orban’s Fidesz party, to nominate all four outside
policy makers of the seven-member Monetary Council, according to
an excerpt of the document the central bank e-mailed to
Bloomberg News today. Parliament would approve those nominated.  Orban, elected in April with an unprecedented two-thirds
majority, is seeking to consolidate his power and influence over
independent institutions. The mandates of all four outside
members expire on March 1. Central bank President  Andras Simor 
has rejected suggestions from government officials to quit
before his term ends in 2013.  “If the government succeeds, it could essentially decide
the appointment of the four new policy makers, naming people who
are more aligned with its economic philosophy favoring a looser
monetary policy,”  Zoltan Arokszallasi , Erste Bank AG’s
Budapest-based economist, said in a phone interview.  The Budapest-based news website  Index  was first to report
on the government bill seeking changes to the composition of the
central bank law.  Battleground  Hungary’s government is pinning its economic policy on a
target of boosting growth above 5 percent by 2014 through cuts
in the personal and corporate income taxes. Retail sales ended a
41-month decline in July. The Cabinet’s reliance on special
industry taxes to maintain budget balance may torpedo that
target by slowing investments, analysts at BNP Paribas SA and
Budapest Investment Management said on Nov. 10.  The central bank has been the battleground of politicians
before. In 2005, Prime Minister  Ferenc Gyurcsany  enlarged the
Monetary Council and ended the Magyar Nemzeti Bank President’s
monopoly on the nomination of new policy makers. The bank’s
president at the time was  Zsigmond Jarai , who had served as
Orban’s finance minister.  Currently the prime minister and the central bank president
share responsibility for naming new policy makers.  Orban criticized Simor during the election campaign for
being slow to reduce the benchmark interest rate and for not
doing enough to use monetary policy to end the country’s
recession. The central bank left the  two-week deposit rate 
unchanged at a record-low 5.25 percent in October for a sixth
month.  Previous Changes  The new appointments to the Monetary Council may not lead
to a looser policy in practice, Arokszallasi said, citing the
changes five years ago which didn’t automatically trigger lower
rates.  “Whether monetary policy will be looser after the new
appointments remains to be seen,” Arokszallasi said.  Orban’s move on the Monetary Council comes after he
nominated a ruling party vice president,  Pal Schmitt , to become
president. He named another Fidesz party member,  Laszlo Domokos ,
to head the independent State Audit Office. Parliament this
month backed a Fidesz proposal to strip the Constitutional Court
of its jurisdiction over most tax and budget matters after the
top instance rejected a tax on public sector severance payments
the party wanted to implement.  The ruling party also backs cutting the funding of the
independent Fiscal Council, Fidesz deputy  Antal Rogan  said
yesterday, according to Index. The budget watchdog has
criticized the cabinet’s budget plans and said fiscal
transparency has deteriorated under Orban’s administration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zoltan Simon  at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  