-- Murakami Elegizes on Sex as Beatles’ Sitar Gently Weeps: Film
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2010-11-24T18:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/murakami-elegizes-on-sex-as-norwegian-wood-finally-reaches-screen-film.html
“Don’t ever feel sorry for
yourself,” says Nagasawa, the elitist playboy in  “Norwegian
Wood,”  the first film to be made of  Haruki Murakami ’s 
best-selling 1987 novel of the same title.  It’s good advice for his troubled friend Watanabe, the
movie’s main character, who grapples with a pal’s suicide, his
emotionally fragile girlfriend Naoko, and an unexpected love
triangle.  Fans of the novel, which has been translated into 39
languages and sold more than 10 million copies in Japan alone,
will be happy that it has transferred faithfully to the screen,
partly because Murakami agreed to help draft the screenplay.  Vietnamese-French director Tran Anh Hung, who won the
“Camera d’Or” prize at Cannes for “The Scent of Green
Papaya” in 1993, captures the lush scenery and impeccable
portrayals of the novel’s characters.  The film is backed by a score from  Radiohead ’s  Jonny Greenwood  and songs by Can, the Doors and of course the Beatles.
If you can’t stand tortured indie rock bands, save your 1,800
yen ($21.50) for Murakami’s more thrilling “1Q84.”  Naoko is played by  Rinko Kikuchi , who was nominated for an
Oscar for her portrayal of a deaf-mute teenager in the 2006 film
“Babel.” That made her a natural choice to play Watanabe’s
institutionalized girlfriend, who mostly whispers clipped
phrases as she questions her love for a dead childhood friend.  Student Radicals  While student radicals unleash their passions onto the
streets of Tokyo in 1969, Watanabe, a typical Murakami anti-
hero, chooses to read books by  F. Scott Fitzgerald ,  Truman Capote ,  John Updike  and  Raymond Chandler .  “It’s not that I like being lonely,” he tells a
classmate. “I just don’t go out of my way to make friends.”  The film’s elegant moodiness is broken up by the appearance
of the gamine Midori, who enjoys recounting her pornographic
fantasies to Watanabe. Played by newcomer Kiko Mizuhara, she
bears a striking resemblance to  Audrey Tautou ’s title character
in “Amelie” with the same bob hairstyle, crimson lips and
slightly creepy smile.  Seeking companionship after her father’s death, she
tearfully asks Watanabe: “Will you take me to a porno? A really
kinky one?” Who can say no?  Sex, however, is no joke in this movie. It preoccupies and
confounds many of the characters, and guiltless pleasure is
rarely enjoyed by any of them. Tran doesn’t shy away from
portraying this struggle in all its rawness, which contrasts
with their unwavering feelings of love.  Girl-Swapping  “I just can’t help it,” says well-bred Hatsumi,
explaining her devotion to Nagasawa in spite of his girl-
swapping exploits.  Tran returns to the patient cinematography of “Green
Papaya,” after a detour into gratuitously violent territory
with  “I Come With the Rain”  in 2008. Director of photography
Pin Bing Lee captures sunlight streaming through trees at dawn,
and beautiful shots of Watanabe and Midori chatting on the
veranda, as rain gently patters. There’s lots of rain and snow.  Naoko’s caretaker Reiko gives a lovely acoustic performance
of the Beatles title song in a cabin in the hills of rural
Kyoto, and the original version graces the credits.  Sound direction is restrained, with gentle pianissimos
building slowly to an explosion of white noise. The wailing
eventually settles down, and we are left feeling hopeful.  “Even someone as powerless and incomplete as me feels at
times how wonderful it is to be alive,” Reiko tells Watanabe.  Growth may not come without suffering. But at some point,
enough is enough.  Rating: ***  “Norwegian Wood,” distributed by  Toho Co. , opens Dec. 11
in Japan.  ( Makiko Kitamura  writes for Bloomberg News. Opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 