-- Turkish Stocks Most Expensive Since 2003 Imperil `Crowded Trade'
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2010-11-25T16:52:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/turkey-stocks-priciest-since-2003-as-worst-profits-imperil-crowded-trade-.html
The highest Turkish stock valuations
in seven years and slowest profit growth in the emerging markets
are signs the nation’s longest stretch of equity  outperformance 
since 1997 is ending.  The MSCI Turkey Index trades for 2.2 times net assets, the
highest since February 2003 relative to the  MSCI Emerging
Markets Index , data compiled by Bloomberg and MSCI Inc. show.
 Earnings  in the 20-company Turkey gauge will rise 7.7 percent
next year, the smallest gain of 19 major developing nations,
according to analysts’ estimates.  Turkey’s fastest economic expansion since 2005 and record-
low interest rates spurred mutual fund managers to make Turkey
their largest “overweight” holding and sent price-to-book
ratios to a 10 percent premium over emerging markets, from a 45
percent discount two years ago. Citigroup Inc. and Morgan
Stanley say stock pickers are too optimistic and slower profit
growth will limit gains after the MSCI Turkey index outperformed
the emerging markets benchmark for six straight quarters.  “It’s hard to go any lower on interest rates and the
economy is going to decelerate after its V-shaped recovery,”
 Andrew Howell , Citigroup’s emerging-market equity strategist in
London, said in a Nov. 19 phone interview. “Investors are now
pricing in much more of a rosy scenario for Turkey than they’ve
tended to in the past. The risk is that they’re disappointed in
the near term.”  Stock Swings  Howell lowered his “overweight” recommendation on Turkish
stocks to “neutral” for the first time since May, saying in an
Oct. 28 report that increased foreign inflows have made the
market a “crowded trade.” The MSCI Turkey gauge advanced 27
percent this year, more than double the 11 percent gain of the
MSCI emerging-market index.  Turkish stocks are known for their sizable  swings , with the
MSCI Turkey index having rallied 86 percent last year after
tumbling 52 percent in 2008 and increasing 41 percent in 2007.
The Turkey gauge fell 0.3 percent to 982,428.6 at 5:40 p.m. in
Istanbul today, while the MSCI emerging-market index advanced
0.3 percent.  Turkey’s economy is set to expand 7.8 percent in 2010,
compared with 10.5 percent in China, the fastest-growing major
economy, according to forecasts from the International Monetary
Fund. While China will grow 9.6 percent next year, the pace will
slow for the Mediterranean nation to 3.6 percent in 2011, below
its annual average of 4 percent since 1980, based on the
Washington-based IMF’s October projections. Turkey’s economy
shrank by 4.7 percent in 2009 as China’s grew 9.1 percent.  IMF Bailout  Turkey was bailed out by the IMF in 2001 after a banking
crisis forced the government to borrow more than $40 billion to
recapitalize more than 20 failed lenders. The IMF agreement
ended in May 2008 and Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  says
he aims to finish repaying the fund by 2012.  Turkey’s slowing economy and a central bank requirement
that lenders raise their reserve levels will curb profitability
at lenders such as  Turkiye Is Bankasi  AS and  Yapi & Kredi
Bankasi AS  that account for 60 percent of the MSCI Turkey
index’s  market value , according to analysts’ estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  Turkey’s central bank increased the level of lira reserves
that banks must deposit on Nov. 12 to 6 percent from 5.5 percent
and said it may boost the level further because the economy is
in danger of “overheating.”  Isbank, Yapi Kredi  Profits at Turkish financial companies jumped 32 percent
during the past 12 months as the economy rebounded and a surge
in government bond prices increased the value of lenders’
holdings, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The bond rally may
falter as inflation forces the central bank to lift its
 benchmark interest rate  next year, Citigroup said on Oct. 28.  The central bank probably will raise its benchmark interest
rate by 150 basis points, or 1.5 percentage point, to 8.5
percent by the end of next year to combat  inflation , according
to Citigroup.  Isbank, Turkey’s biggest-listed lender by assets, may
increase profits 1.9 percent next year and Yapi Kredi’s will
climb 5.3 percent, according to analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with predictions of 23 percent growth
for companies in the  MSCI Emerging Markets Financials Index .
Both Turkish lenders are based in Istanbul.  “Turkey’s banks are an area to be careful in,”  Ivo Kovachev , an emerging-markets money manager at JO Hambro Capital
Management Ltd. in London, which oversees about $8.5 billion,
said in a Nov. 19 phone interview. “They’ve been winners
because of good fundamental reasons, but this situation is
changing.”  Borrowing Costs  Philippe Langham , who runs the $660 million RBC Emerging
Markets Fund, said the outlook for Turkish banks is “very
positive” because borrowing costs have declined and they’re
better-capitalized than peers.  The average yield on Turkish  corporate bonds  has dropped to
5.28 percent from 18 percent two years ago, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s CEMBI Broad Turkey Index. The
average Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of financial strength,
for banks in the  MSCI Turkey Financials Index  is 17 percent,
compared with 12 percent for lenders in the MSCI emerging-
markets index, Bloomberg data show.  Turkish share valuations are about 20 percent too low,
based on a model used by  Credit Suisse Group AG  that ranks
countries using price-to-book ratios and returns on equity, a
measure of how well management reinvests profits,  Sakthi Siva ,
the Zurich-based bank’s emerging-market strategist, wrote in a
Nov. 22 note.  Fund Flows  Emerging equity  mutual funds  have boosted their holdings in
Turkey to the biggest “overweight” position on record, a sign
bullish managers have already bought into the market, according
to Citigroup’s Howell, who cited data for the end of September
compiled by EPFR Global, a Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
research firm.  Company analysts are lowering estimates for Turkish
profits, cutting their growth projection for the MSCI Turkey
Index to 7.7 percent from 19 percent at the start of the year,
according to the average of about 475 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Growth  estimates  for the MSCI emerging-market index
have slipped to 16 percent from 21 percent in January, the data
show.  Stock Picking  Turkey’s current-account and budget deficits make the lira
vulnerable to declines, eroding returns for overseas equity
investors, according to Morgan Stanley strategist  Jonathan Garner . The IMF predicts a budget shortfall this year amounting
to 3.5 percent of gross domestic product and a 5.2 percent
current-account gap. China will have a budget deficit of about
2.9 percent and a 4.7 percent current-account surplus. The lira
rose 6.7 percent against the dollar in the past six months.  “It is one of those markets that we would recommend
reducing exposure,” Garner said in a Nov. 23 phone interview.
He downgraded Turkey to “underweight” from “equal-weight” on
Sept. 21.  JO Hambro holds Turkish shares that aren’t in the MSCI
index, including  Turk Traktor & Ziraat Makineleri AS , a maker of
farm machinery, and Yazicilar  Holding  AS, the Istanbul-based
holding company with stakes in beverage and automotive
businesses. Turk Traktor, based in Ankara, is valued at 9 times
reported earnings and Yazicilar  trades  for 7.6 times, compared
with 11.3 for the MSCI Turkey index, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “I’m looking at smaller, more dynamic companies,” said JO
Hambro’s Kovachev. “Stock selection is important.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 