-- Muslim-Majority Nations Plan Stock Index to Spur Trade: Islamic Finance
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2010-11-25T11:31:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/muslim-nations-plan-stock-index-to-spur-trade-islamic-finance.html
The organization representing the
world’s biggest grouping of Muslim-majority nations is seeking
to attract more overseas investment by offering the first
Shariah-compliant stock index from its 57 members.  The  Organization of the Islamic Conference  based in Jeddah
hired Standard & Poor’s to start an index of about 50 of the
most-traded stocks in the first quarter of 2011,  Huseyin Erkan ,
the Istanbul Stock Exchange’s chief executive officer and
coordinator of the initiative, said on Nov. 8. The index, which
will track listed equities that comply with Islam’s ban on
alcohol, gaming and tobacco, aims to target exchange-traded
funds, he said.  “Governments of Islamic countries want us to cooperate in
capital markets to facilitate cross-border trading,” Erkan said
in an interview in Abu Dhabi. “One of the easiest and most
efficient ways to improve trading is to build indexes and
exchanged-traded funds.”  The  OIC , which includes the United Arab Emirates, Indonesia
and Pakistan and is the second-largest grouping of countries
after the United Nations, is seeking to speed up the
establishment of a free-trade area and an Islamic economic union
for its more than 1.4 billion people, according to its  Website. 
Assets held by Shariah-compliant funds is estimated at $52.3
billion,  Ernst & Young  said in its Islamic Funds & Investment
Report in May, and companies and governments in the Middle East
and Asia have introduced Shariah-compliant stock indices and
funds to attract inflows.  ‘Big Fan’  Templeton Asset Management Ltd.’s  Mark Mobius  said he’s a
“big fan” of Islamic funds and the “potential assets that are
available to the Islamic asset management industry” is more
than $480 billion.  “The equity side is where we are going to see big growth
going forward,” Mobius, who oversees about $34 billion as
executive chairman of San Mateo, California-based Templeton’s
emerging markets group, said at a conference in Manama
yesterday. “The potential is very, very great.”  News Corp.’s Dow Jones & Co. and MSCI Inc. currently offer
Islamic indexes that track the performance of companies in the
U.S., Singapore, Japan, Europe and Malaysia that meet Shariah
principles. The S&P 100 Pan Islamic Market  index  tracks 100
companies from the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council and Asia,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bursa Malaysia Bhd., the stock-exchange manager in Kuala
Lumpur, and FTSE Group offer Islamic equity indexes including
the  FTSE-Bursa Malaysia EMAS Shariah index , which tracks 271
large and mid-cap stocks, according to data on its Website.  More the Merrier  “The more indexes covering Islamic equities the better,”
Shehzad Janab, head of asset management at Dubai-based Daman
Investments PSC said on Nov. 24. “It’s a virtuous circle. More
indexes mean more people following them, better awareness and it
will force companies within the indexes to be more
transparent.”  The  Dow Jones Islamic Market World Index , which tracks
global shares that meet Islamic investment guidelines and has a
market capitalization of $12.8 trillion, climbed 7 percent this
year, while the  Dow Jones Global Index  gained 6.4 percent in the
same period. Shariah-compliant bonds returned 11.4 percent so
far this year, according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar
Sukuk Index .  S&P will help the OIC set up a second, broader Islamic
index of listed companies, said  Alexander Matturri , New York-
based executive managing director at S&P Indices.  “The rationale behind this move is that it attracts
attention from both local and off-shore investors who want to
bring flows in,” Matturri said in a Nov. 5 Interview in Abu
Dhabi. “The tradable version could ideally be used for
launching exchanged-traded funds.”  ETFs Attract  HSBC Holdings Plc , the second-largest underwriter of
Islamic bonds globally, plans to start its first Shariah-
compliant exchange traded funds in the Persian Gulf,  Razi Fakih ,
deputy chief executive officer of HSBC’s Islamic unit in Dubai,
said in October. The funds will give overseas investors greater
access to the region’s markets.  ETFs may help OIC countries attract some of the $79.9
billion of inflows into emerging markets this year, which is set
to exceed 2009’s record $83.3 billion, according to EPFR Global.
ETFs are index-based investment products that allow investors to
buy and sell shares of entire portfolios of stock in a single
security.  The OIC indexes will also provide investors exposure to
oil-driven wealth in Persian Gulf nations,  Charbel Azzi , Middle
East and North Africa’s head of client coverage at S&P Indices
said. Founded in 1969, OIC members include Saudi Arabia, the
largest oil producer in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, and Qatar, the world’s largest exporter of liquefied
natural gas.  Global Players  “You’re targeting global Shariah players, and not just
regional players,” Azzi said in a Nov. 23 interview in Dubai.
“They will be able to invest in Islamic markets which are
outside the jurisdiction of the GCC or Europe. You have got all
of the Islamic markets come under one umbrella.”  Malaysia’s 3.928 percent Islamic note due in June 2015
fell, pushing the yield up 2 basis points, to 2.89 percent,
according to prices provided by Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc. The extra yield investors demand to hold Dubai’s government
sukuk rather than Malaysia’s narrowed 2 basis points to 381
basis points today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  difference  between the average yield for emerging
market sukuk and the London interbank offered rate widened 4
basis points to 344 yesterday.  Get Exposure  Sajjad Anwar , who helps manage the equivalent of $160
million of Islamic and non-Islamic funds at NBP Fullerton Asset
Management Ltd., said he will invest in funds tracking companies
in OIC-member states.  “This is feasible and viable as it will provide a common
platform to investors in the Islamic world,” Anwar said in a
phone interview from Karachi on Nov. 24. “The move is likely to
promote the Islamic finance industry.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Haris Anwar  in Dubai on 
 Hanwar2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  