-- Vienna Insurance Group Said to Postpone $670 Million Subordinate Bond Sale
-- B y   B e n   M a r t i n   a n d   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2010-11-24T09:38:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/vienna-insurance-postpones-500-million-euro-bond-sale-update1-.html
Vienna Insurance Group , eastern
Europe’s biggest insurer, postponed its 500 million-euro ($666
million) sale of 30-year subordinated bonds, according to a
banker involved with the transaction.  The deal was delayed because of volatile market conditions,
said the banker, who declined to be identified because details
of the sale were private. The company held meetings with bond
investors last week.  “We are currently actively monitoring the market, and due
to the current environment, this monitoring is taking a bit
longer,” said Alexander Jedlicka, a Vienna Insurance spokesman.
“We are not under time pressure. There is no target date for
the sale.”  Vienna Insurance Chief Executive Officer  Guenter Geyer  said
on Nov. 9 the group planned to sell the bonds to lock in low
interest rates and increase its return on equity. Vienna
Insurance’s  equity  is about 13 percent of its total assets,
compared with less than 8 percent for  rivals   Allianz SE ,  Axa SA 
and  Assicurazioni Generali SpA , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Vienna Insurance joins French poultry producer Doux SA and
Austrian sewage system maker SW Umwelttechnik Stoiser &
Wolschner AG, which postponed bond sales earlier this month.  The insurer hired Erste Group Bank AG and BNP Paribas SA to
manage the bond sale. The bond would have been callable after 10
years and was aimed at institutional and individual investors in
Austria, the Czech Republic, Germany, and Luxembourg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Benjamin Martin  in London at 
 bmartin38@bloomberg.net ;
 Boris Groendahl  in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  