-- Vietnam Stocks `Rerating' Hinges on Inflation Battle, VinaSecurities Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-24T00:40:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/vietnam-stocks-rerating-hinges-on-inflation-battle-vinasecurities-says.html
Vietnam, Asia’s second-cheapest
stock market, needs policies that will tame  inflation  to boost
investor confidence and support a rebound in equities next year,
according to VinaSecurities Joint-Stock Co.  A “sustained” rally for the “exceedingly cheap” shares
requires higher interest rates, a more stable currency and
bigger foreign exchange reserves, Adrian Cundy, head of research
for the securities unit of the country’s biggest fund manager,
said in an interview.  “If these prerequisites are met, there’s a good chance
that the market could rerate in the second half of 2011,” he
said. If the Ho Chi Minh City Stock Exchange’s  VN Index  were to
trade at 13 to 14 times estimated earnings, it “could easily”
reach 600 next year, he said. The gauge has climbed 1 percent
this week to 430.81, halting a 6.7 slide over the previous two
weeks. It’s  valued at  9.3 times 2011 profit.  The VN Index has tumbled 63 percent from the record
1,170.67 in March 2007, and retreated 13 percent this year,
while the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  advanced 7.8 percent. The
shares have dropped amid concern inflation will accelerate as
the government devalued the dong three times since November 2009
and tightened capital adequacy ratios for banks, while the trade
deficit widened.  Vietnam’s gauge is the cheapest in Asia after Pakistan’s
Karachi Stock Exchange 100 Index, with a multiple of 7.5 times.  “Our own estimates indicate there are sectors with good
earnings growth such as consumer, energy services and
agricultural commodities,” Cundy said, declining to name
companies. “We are cautious on real estate, utilities and
selected banks.”  ‘Disorderly Moves’  Vietnam is increasing the risk of “disorderly market
moves” by failing to tighten monetary policy,  Kevin Grice , an
economist at Capital Economics Ltd., said in a note Nov. 2. The
authorities are “reluctant” to act before January’s  11th
National Party Congress  of the Communist Party, which will lead
to a leadership reshuffle, Grice said. The congress occurs every
five years.  “Hopefully after the party congress in January, we will
see continued prudent application of fiscal and macro policy,
which would help to set the stage for an index rally,” Cundy
said. “And when the market turns, it turns quickly.”  Institutional investors have been “unsure about the policy
direction” of the central bank over the last 12 months, while
“the lack of timely disclosure of key economic numbers such as
foreign exchange reserves hasn’t helped the market,” he said.  Vietnam’s  inflation  rate was 9.66 percent in October,
holding above 8 percent, the government’s target for this year,
for the ninth consecutive month. “Curbing inflation is now a
challenge,” Le Duc Thuy, chairman of Vietnam’s National
Financial Supervisory Commission said Nov. 5.  The country’s trade deficit widened to $1.1 billion in
October from a revised $875 million in September, according to
preliminary figures released by the General Statistics Office in
Hanoi on Oct. 25. The shortfall may total $12 billion to $12.5
billion this year, according to Thuy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nguyen Kieu Giang  in Hanoi at 
 giang1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  