-- Wal-Mart $5 Barbie, Doorbusters to Fuel Black Friday
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d   a n d   I a n   T h o m s o n
-- 2010-11-24T12:58:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/wal-mart-s-5-barbie-penney-s-300-doorbusters-woo-black-friday-shoppers.html
Vanessa Gomez, a 44-year-old mother
of two, walked through a  J.C. Penney Co.  store last week in
Queens, New York, took in the discounts of as much as 70 percent
-- and walked out empty-handed.  “I’ll wait until Friday,” said Gomez, a secretary from
the Ozone Park section of Queens, referring to so-called Black
Friday, the post-Thanksgiving consumer event that kicks off the
holiday shopping season.  Gomez may reflect the mindset of many Americans. Having
watched retailers cut prices amid record  unemployment  and
falling housing prices, shoppers have learned to play the
waiting game. Of the 138 million people who plan to shop this
weekend, about 40 percent will analyze the bargains before
leaving the house, according to the Washington-based National
Retail Federation.  “The consumer does seem much more willing to spend when
the product is right and the price is right,” said  Roxanne Meyer , a retail analyst for UBS Securities in New York. “But
consumers are increasingly waiting closer to Christmas” in the
expectation that the deals will be even better.  To get shoppers in a buying mood sooner rather than later,
U.S. retailers are dangling Black Friday specials, from slow-
cookers for $7.88 at J.C. Penney to $5 Barbies at  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc.  Black Friday is so named because many retailers
become profitable that day.  Analysts’ estimates for holiday sales vary from little
changed to increases of as much as 4.5 percent. The retail
federation predicts a gain of 2.3 percent to $447.1 billion
after an uptick of 0.4 percent last year and a 3.9 percent drop
in 2008.  Consumer Rebound  These projections coincided with a rebound in U.S. consumer
spending this year as the economy began adding jobs. Consumer
spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of the U.S.
economy, increased at a 2.8 percent annual rate in the third
quarter, the Commerce Department reported yesterday. That was
the fastest since the final three months of 2006.  Same-store sales, a key indicator because new and closed
locations are excluded, rose for 14 straight months through
October. Same-store sales for November and December may advance
as much as 3.5 percent, the largest increase since 2006,
according to the International Council of Shopping Centers.  “The mood of the consumer’s slightly better,” J.C. Penney
Chief Executive Officer  Myron Ullman  said in an interview.
“They feel more like they’re going to have a Christmas” after
denying themselves for the past couple of years, he said.  Biggest Shopping Day  Black Friday was the largest shopping day last year with
$18 billion in sales, according to MasterCard Spending Pulse,
which is based in Purchase, New York. The number may rise this
year because 31 percent of consumers plan to hit the stores that
day, up from 26 percent a year ago, according to the shopping
centers group.  As in years past, retailers are proffering so-called
doorbusters -- a limited supply of discounted merchandise aimed
at luring shoppers and getting them to buy higher-priced or
less-discounted items.  J.C. Penney will offer its most deals ever with more than
300 doorbusters, including diamond-accented earrings slashed 80
percent to $10 and lambskin leather coats cut 73 percent to $80.  Toys and electronics often serve as doorbusters. Besides $5
Barbies, Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer, is offering
Nintendo Co.’s handheld DS Lite for 30 percent off at $89.  Best
Buy Co. , the largest electronics chain in the world, will sell a
55-inch flat-screen television from Samsung Electronics Co. for
$1,500, a 40 percent savings.  Early Hours  Many retailers are also starting Black Friday earlier to
boost sales, led by  Sears Holdings Corp. , which will open its
namesake stores at 7 a.m. on Thanksgiving. Toys ‘R’ Us Inc.
plans to begin at 10 p.m. that day, followed by Wal-Mart at
midnight. J.C. Penney and  Target Corp.  will hold off until 4
a.m. on Friday, followed by Best Buy at 5 a.m.  While Black Friday is “an important barometer for how the
season will go,” said UBS Securities analyst Meyer, she expects
a shopping lull after the Thanksgiving weekend as consumers wait
for retailers to slash prices. Then there will be a last-minute
rush just before Christmas, she said.  Sara Paul, a 38-year-old hairdresser from Brooklyn, New
York, said she won’t be joining the Black Friday shopping
throngs this year. Instead she plans to wait until December when
she will head to the outlet malls in Pennsylvania.  “I’m going to spend the same” as last year, she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matt Townsend  in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net ;
 Ian Thomson  in New York at 
 ithomson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  