-- White's Morini Fattens Soho Skinnies With Cream, Lard, Pasta: Ryan Sutton
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2010-11-24T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/white-s-morini-fattens-soho-skinnies-with-cream-lard-pasta-ryan-sutton.html
Finishing a bowl of Osteria Morini’s
braised beef ravioli by yourself is like drinking an entire
magnum of Barolo wine.  The pasta is sauced in buttery pan drippings so
concentrated they shimmer like glass. It’s fine shared with
friends and consumed at a leisurely pace. Tackle it solo,
however, and suffer the consequences.  Such are the head-spinning effects of this heavy fare by
Michael White, the cherub-faced, 6-foot-4-inch tall Midwesterner
who looks more like an NFL lineman than an Italian chef.  His latest, maybe gutsiest move is opening a restaurant
dedicated to fat in Soho, a Manhattan neighborhood where skinny
foodies don’t have any.  Morini puts out mortadella “corn dogs” (delicious), fried
polenta with pork fat (even better), slices of “white
prosciutto” (pure lardo) and bowls of affogato so large the
dense frozen-custard drowned in espresso could sub for a 1,000
calorie  Dairy Queen  milkshake.  There are two vegetable soups. Neither is vegetarian. Seven
of ten meat-based entrees involve some form of pork.  Bill Cosby  This is all a chubby American take on the traditional
cream-themed cuisine of Emilia-Romagna in Northern Italy, whose
lipids of choice come from animals more often than olives.  Such are the quirks of White’s first casual restaurant, a
good, if somewhat uneven spot with paper placemats, paper
napkins and Italian farmhouse wood. Sound absorbing tablecloths?
No way. Artwork? Of course; photos of celebrities (Bill Cosby
smoking a cigar) hang about.  The wine list isn’t unbalanced with over-priced, over-
extracted Super Tuscans, but instead offers a wide selection of
Lambruscos; some will assail the sparkling reds as “pizza-
cola.” More discerning guests will find the grapey, bubbly
concoctions a refreshing counterpoint to bechamel croquettes
(which taste like fried mayo).  White has made a name with fancier affairs like Marea, with
its seafood and pasta tasting menus; Convivio, the bastion of
high-end Southern Italian and Alto, the refined take on Northern
Italy. They espouse the Michelin four-course approach to dining
-- an appetizer from the antipasto menu, pasta, entree and
dessert.  Morini’s chief departure is that it sometimes espouses the
old-school “one plate should fill you up.”  Sticky Feet  Before the ravioli I began working my way through a ramekin
of what appeared to be breadcrumbs. Those soft morsels had
soaked up the natural gelatins of calves’ feet. Cockscomb and
sweet breads added more meatiness. It’s an outstanding dish for
hibernating bears and ensured that dessert was not an option --
a good thing because panna cotta, which should tremble with
delicacy, was as dense as a gumdrop.  There are a few somewhat lighter items: paper-thin-slices
of fat-flanked prosciutto; ethereal truffle custard topped with
mushrooms ($14); a little ramekin of creamy duck liver mouse
($13).  White enriches his noodles with wanton amounts of
cholesterol. At Marea, he relaxes the pucker of tomato sauce
with bone marrow. That same sense of balance isn’t present at
 Morini , where firm garganelli, soft gnocchi and porky tortellini
drown in an overdose of cream.  A piping-hot crock of baked polenta, a goopy mess with
stracchino cheese and sausage, has the texture and taste of
overcooked baked manicotti from a local pizza joint.  Seafood Soup  The better call is a beefy tagliatelle Bolognese, or shell-
shaped noodles called creste; they soak up a warm, tomato-spiked
mussel broth. Marea’s $48 seafood soup appears in a $28 version
here and the maritime essence is no less powerful.  Pyromaniacs and fans of cable cooking shows will appreciate
the kitchen’s fiery brick oven and rotisserie. The devices
produced a porchetta with leathery skin and blubbery fat;
skewered pork suffered the same fate. White is responsible for
an equally leathery, underseasoned pork chop, but nails a crispy
baby chicken, perfumed by a bed of bitter Brussels sprouts and
smoky pancetta.  Morini’s $84 porterhouse for two is a respectable version
with a dose of rosemary and olive oil to make it Italian. It’s
OK.  But really. As White prepares for the opening of Ai Fiori
in Midtown’s Setai hotel (his second restaurant of the year), he
should ease up on the cholesterol and make Morini the excellent
restaurant it deserves to be. Italian is a very crowded field in
New York these days.  Rating: **  The Bloomberg Questions  Prices: Most dishes under $30.  Sound Level: Around 75; loud but hardly deafening.  Date Place: Yes.  Inside tip: Drink Lambrusco. Lots of it.  Special Feature: Killer pumpkin and zabaglione gelati.  Will I be back: Often for cold cuts and wine.  Osteria Morini is at 218 Lafayette Street, near Kenmare.
Information: +1-212-965-8777 or  http://www.osteriamorini.com   
Sound-Level Chart (in decibels):  51 to 55: Church on a weekday. 56 to 60: The vegetable aisle at
the Food Emporium. 61 to 65: Keyboards clacking at the office.
66 to 70: My alarm clock when it goes off inches from my ear. 71
to 75: Corner deli at lunchtime. 76 to 80: Back of a taxi with
advertisements at full volume. 81 to 85: Loud, crowded subway
with announcements.  ( Ryan Sutton  writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 