-- Sojitz Jumps After Reaching Rare-Earths Agreement With Australia's Lynas
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2010-11-24T04:54:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/lynas-in-talks-to-accelerate-rare-earth-expansion-agrees-deal-with-sojitz.html
Sojitz Corp.  and  Lynas Corp.  shares
jumped after Japan’s biggest rare earth importer reached a deal
with the Australian mining company, securing an additional
source of supply after China slashed exports.  Sojitz climbed 9.1 percent to 168 yen at 1:47 p.m. in Tokyo,
making it the  best performer  in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index.
Sojitz will hold a press conference today, according to an
announcement. Sydney-based Lynas, which said separately it was
in talks to increase output and supply to Japan with an
unspecified company, climbed 9 percent to A$1.51 after NHK
reported that Sojitz agreed to pay  Lynas  $300 million to supply
8,500 metric tons of rare earth metals over 10 years.  Japan is seeking long-term secure supplies of rare earths
after China, the largest exporter, slashed exports in September.
Foreign Minister  Seiji Maehara  said Japan wanted to collaborate
with Australia on rare earth supply at joint press conference
yesterday with Australian Foreign Minister  Kevin Rudd  in
Canberra.  “This looks, if indeed confirmed, like a win-win for both
companies - the Japanese would love to get secure non-Chinese
supply of rare earths and for Lynas it sounds like they have the
funding secured for their expansion,” said  Ben Potter , a
Melbourne-based research analyst at IG Markets Ltd.  Michael Vaughan of FD Third Person, who is acting as a
spokesman for Lynas, couldn’t immediately comment.  Lynas is “in advanced stages of discussion to secure
additional supply of rare earths products for the Japanese
market by accelerating the expansion of the Lynas rare earths
project,” the company said in the statement.  Exports Decline  Rare-earth exports from China, the biggest supplier,
declined 77 percent in October from a month earlier after the
government reduced shipment quotas for the second half. Two
ships carrying rare earths left China for Japan, the Associated
Press said, citing Trade and Industry minister  Akihiro Ohata .  Lynas’s A$550 million ($539 million) Mt. Weld project is
due to start in the second half of 2011.  “We will be looking to collaborate on the area of rare
earths,” Maehara said yesterday. “We are very pleased that
Australia is also able to give us a long-term commitment to
rare earths.”  The price of lanthanum oxide, used in hybrid batteries,
has risen more than sevenfold since the second quarter to $58 a
kilogram, according to Lynas’s website. Vehicles like the
Toyota Motor Corp.’s Prius contain about 10 kilograms of rare
earths.  Prices to Rise  Prices for rare earths will probably keep rising as new
supplies won’t appear any time soon, Commerzbank AG said in a
Nov. 11 report. While China may “mitigate its position in the
face of strong international pressure, supplies of rare earths
are likely to decline further, with delays in the startup of
envisaged projects,” the bank said.  China won’t “dramatically” cut rare-earth export quotas
next year, Vice Commerce Minister  Chen Jian  said on Nov. 1.  Yao Jian , a spokesman for the commerce ministry, told a Nov. 16
briefing that China also wants other countries to exploit their
own rare-earth resources to ensure global supplies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elisabeth Behrmann  in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  