-- Hyundai Extends World Cup Sponsorship as FIFA Decides on 2022 Host
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2010-11-24T18:28:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-24/hyundai-extends-world-cup-sponsorship-as-fifa-decides-on-2022-host.html
Hyundai Motor Group, South Korea’s
biggest automaker, extended its sponsorship of soccer’s World
Cup four years early as the sport’s governing body considers
allowing the Asia nation to host the 2022 tournament.  Hyundai-Kia will be the official automotive sponsor of FIFA
events, including the World Cup, for the next 12 years. The
company became a sponsor in 2002, when Korea and Japan co-hosted
the tournament.  FIFA will vote Dec. 2 on the hosts for the two World Cup
following Brazil in 2014. South Korea is vying with Qatar, the
U.S., Australia and Japan for the 2022 games.  Chung Mong-Joon ,
who held the chairman’s post at Hyundai Heavy Industries, is a
FIFA vice president and sits on the executive committee that
will decide the host.  Earlier this month, FIFA suspended executive committee
members  Amos Adamu  from Nigeria and Tahiti’s Reynald Temarii,
which reduced the decision-making body to 22 members. London’s
Sunday Times said Oct. 17 that the pair indicated they would
trade cash for their support. They won’t be replaced before the
vote on who hosts the two World Cups after Brazil.  The U.S. has estimated that the competition is worth as
much as $5 billion to the hosts. Russia, England and a joint
Netherlands/Belgium bid are contending for 2018, along with
Spain/Portugal.  Hyundai  will give significant logistical support for the
competitions by providing fleets of official vehicles, according
to FIFA’s statement.  “This renewal will further enhance our business values and
the vision that football can act as the driving force to make a
better world,” Chung Mong-Koo, chairman and chief executive
officer of Hyundai Motor Group, said in the statement.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  