-- ‘CSI’ Killer Sqweegel Doubles as Pitchman for Book, Web Film
-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r
-- 2010-10-08T04:00:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/-csi-killer-sqweegel-doubles-as-pitchman-for-book-web-film.html
Anthony Zuiker , creator of the
“CSI” police shows on CBS, is using the Oct. 14 episode of the
flagship series in a unusual bid to promote his new crime novel
and a Web movie with same villain.  CBS, the most-watched network, approved Zuiker’s plan to
write a “CSI” episode with the serial killer Sqweegel from his
book “Dark Prophecy,” the author said in an interview near the
set. The episode features  Ann-Margret  as a wealthy Las Vegas
woman with a past that the villain uses against her.  Zuiker, 42, decided to promote the book on the show when
his first crime novel,  “Level 26: Dark Origins,”  didn’t sell
as he’d hoped. U.S. book sales declined 1.8 percent last year to
$23.9 billion, the Association of American Publishers said in
April, with adult paperbacks shrinking 5.2 percent.  “If I can just get 1 percent of the 15 million people who
watch ‘CSI’ to buy this book I’ll have a bestseller on my
hands,” said Zuiker, who calls the plan a “cyber-bridge”
linking publishing, film and social networking.  “Dark Prophecy,” which will also be available on the
iPad, is the second under a $2.1 million, three-book deal with
Penguin Group Inc.’s Dutton unit, he said. The sum paid for co-
author Duane Swierczynski and the cost of the movie, which was
shot on CBS’s “CSI: New York” set in Studio City, California.  “We’ve seen characters move from TV show to TV show,”
said Jeff Gomez, chief executive officer of Starlight Runner
Entertainment, a N.Y.-based marketing company that specializes
in migrating characters and stories from one medium to another.
“But to move a character from a book to TV is really a
significant way to extend a story line, and it comes from the
book industry, which could use the help.”  Nielsen Ratings  “CSI: Crime Scene Investigation” has the ninth-largest
prime-time audience through two weeks of the new TV season,
according to Nielsen Co. data, with an average of 14.1 million
viewers a night.  CBS Corp.  approved the use of the book’s character “to
create what the executives here say is a very good and very
creepy episode of ‘CSI,’” said  Chris Ender , a spokesman for the
New York-based network.  In addition to selling “Dark Prophecy” as a novel, Zuiker
plans to market it as an e-book for  Apple Inc. ’s iPad, with Web
links to the 52 minute-long film’s 11 segments. The book goes on
sale the same day the “CSI” episode airs.  Standing Out  The movie and e-book will be available for the iPad at
$12.99. Individual Webisode prices haven’t been set. It also
will be free in segments at Level 26’s YouTube channel, he said.  “There are so many social networks today that you need
something to stand out, and this clearly has the ability to do
that, even if it is pretty creepy,” said  Josh Bernoff , co-
author of “Empowered,” a book about social networks. “But you
need the kind of money that someone like a TV producer can bring
to this.”  Starlight Runner ’s Gomez, who counts  Coca-Cola Co.  and
Mattel Inc. among his company’s clients, called Zuiker’s website
“a little bland” and said such cross-marketing isn’t simple.  “To move someone from the book to a website or an online
movie takes a lot of thought to make it appear seamless,” Gomez
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ronald Grover  in Los Angeles at 
 rgrover@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  