-- `Sexy' German Greens Surge to Record as Merkel Turns Off Voters
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2010-10-08T12:45:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/-sexy-german-greens-surge-to-record-in-polls-as-merkel-turns-off-voters.html
Germany’s opposition Greens party
climbed to a record in a poll that showed mounting voter
dissatisfaction with Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s policies from
health care to nuclear power.  Merkel’s  approval ratings  slumped seven percentage points
to 41 percent in a monthly Infratest-dimap poll for ARD
television published today. That’s just one point above her
worst-ever score since taking office in 2005, a rating she
received in June this year.  Public disaffection with Merkel’s coalition has grown after
she unveiled a deal last month extending the use of nuclear
power. That plan and public protests over a rail project in
southern Germany that she backs are playing to Green strengths
even as the  German economy booms .  The Greens are capturing “the intellectual urban middle
class -- the latte macchiatos, the Mac users, the iPhone
users,”  Henrik Enderlein , a political economist at the Hertie
School of Governance in Berlin, said in a phone interview. “The
other parties don’t look sexy.”  Voter support for the Greens rose three points to 20
percent, a record in an Infratest poll, while the opposition
Social Democrats fell by the same margin to 27 percent, ARD said
in an e-mailed statement. The Greens and SPD ruled together from
1998 to 2005 under SPD Chancellor  Gerhard Schroeder .  Merkel’s Christian Democrats and their CSU Bavarian allies
were unchanged with 32 percent while her Free Democratic Party
coalition partner was steady at 5 percent.  Wrong Direction  The Greens are capitalizing the most on Merkel’s weakness
as six state elections loom next year. Almost two-thirds of
those polled said they disagreed with the coalition’s direction.  Merkel, 56, tumbled three places in the poll’s ranking of
voter satisfaction with politicians, falling behind the Greens
parliamentary leaders,  Juergen Trittin  and  Renate Kuenast , and
 Sigmar Gabriel  of the Social Democrats. She wouldn’t even beat
 Peer Steinbrueck , her former SPD finance minister who is no
longer in frontline politics, in a direct runoff, ARD said.  Her standing also fell in Forbes magazine’s list of most
powerful women, where Merkel lost the  top spot  she held for four
years to U.S. first lady  Michelle Obama  in the list published
yesterday. Merkel fell to fourth place, behind talk show host
 Oprah Winfrey . She is still three places ahead of  Lady Gaga .  In December, two months after Germans re-elected her to a
second term, Merkel garnered 70 percent approval in the ARD
poll. Now,  Frank-Walter Steinmeier , her Social Democratic
election challenger, ranks higher. Defense Minister  Karl-Theodor zu Guttenberg , 38, tops the list with 74 percent approval. The
Oct. 4-5 poll of 2,005 people has a margin of error of as much
as 3.1 percentage points.  ‘Autumn of Decisions’  Presiding over the  export-led  recovery of Europe’s largest
economy hasn’t been enough to stop Merkel’s slide as her
coalition squabbled over topics from health care to energy,
prompting her to promise an “autumn of decisions” last month.  Even as German unemployment declined for a 15th month in
September to the lowest rate in more than 18 years, 63 percent
of poll respondents said Merkel is taking the country in the
wrong direction. Fifty-two percent opposed her nuclear policy
and 80 percent were against raising health-care contributions
for workers while keeping them stable for employers.  Fifty-four percent said they are against the so-called
Stuttgart 21 rail modernization project, where police cracked
down on protesters opposed to the demolition of the city’s
historic train station on Sept. 30.  “Stuttgart 21 and the government’s nuclear compromise are
also setting the agenda,” Enderlein said. “Both are massive
Green issues.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Czuczka  at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  