-- Abbott Pulls Diet Pill in U.S. Amid FDA Safety Concerns
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 2010-10-08T20:13:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/abbott-pulls-meridia-diet-pill-from-u-s-after-13-years-over-safety-risks.html
Abbott Laboratories  agreed to pull
its 13-year-old diet pill Meridia off the U.S. market because of
heart attack and stroke risks.  The company announced the removal today at the request of
the Food and Drug Administration after Meridia was tied to 16
percent more major cardiovascular side effects in a study of
10,000 high-risk patients who were followed for as long as six
years. An estimated 100,000 Americans now take Meridia and
Abbott no longer promotes the drug in the U.S.  The FDA’s action comes nine months after Meridia was forced
off the market in Europe because of safety concerns. Coupled
with the agency’s clash with European regulators in deciding
against a recall of  GlaxoSmithKline Plc ’s diabetes pill Avandia
in September, critics say the FDA is increasingly negligent in
its public-health mission.  “The FDA’s decision to ask Abbott to withdraw the drug is
commendable, but dangerously too late for all of the victims of
its unacceptable risks,” said  Sidney Wolfe , head of health
research at the consumer group Public Citizen, in an e-mailed
statement today.  Abbott said today that it would also halt sales of Meridia
in Canada and in Australia, where it was marketed as Reductil.
Global sales of the drug in the first nine months of this year
were $80 million, including $20 million in the U.S. Abbott said
it will report an expense tied to the withdrawals in the third
quarter that won’t alter its quarterly or full-year  forecasts .  Heart Concerns  Meridia was approved in the U.S. in 1997 even as evidence
showed it can raise blood pressure and heart rate. The FDA said
today that those risks were thought to be acceptable because
they could be easily monitored and because weight loss seen in
studies of the drug was expected to be good for the heart.  The long-term safety study, known as “Scout,” found the
drug led to “only modest weight loss” of about 2.5 percent
more than placebo, said  John Jenkins , director of the FDA’s
Office of New Drugs, on a conference call with reporters today.  The agency is reviewing whether longer studies of
cardiovascular risks are needed before approving drugs intended
for chronic use, particularly when patients may already be at
increased risk for heart complications, Jenkins said.  Safety concerns have prompted 22 drugs to be withdrawn from
the market in the past 15 years, half because of heart risks,
according to FDA data obtained by Bloomberg News.  Public Citizen petitioned the FDA unsuccessfully in 2002 to
ban Meridia because of reports of heart attacks in young women
taking the drug. The Washington-based group submitted a second
 petition  in December based on early results of the safety study.  Warnings Not Enough  The FDA  added  warnings to the drug’s prescribing
information in January saying that it shouldn’t be used by
people with a history of heart disease. Outside advisers to the
FDA voted 8-8 on Sept. 15 when asked whether the drug should be
withdrawn or remain available with new warnings or restrictions.  Abbott said today it will comply with the FDA’s request,
and that it maintains Meridia has more benefits than risks.  Abbott gained 23 cents to $52.81 at 4 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The Abbott Park, Illinois-
based maker of drugs and medical devices reported $30.8 billion
in  revenue  last year, led by the arthritis drug Humira with
$5.49 billion.  The FDA also  said  today that “several reports of serious
side effects” have been tied to “Slimming Beauty Bitter Orange
Slimming Capsules,” which contain sibutramine, Meridia’s main
ingredient. The drug is sold online by Beautiful Health Inc. and
samples were handed out at the 40th annual Mexican Independence
Day Parade in Chicago on Sept. 12, the agency said.  Standards for New Drugs  One third of American adults are obese, raising their risk
of diabetes, heart disease, and cancer. The FDA hasn’t approved
a new prescription weight-loss drug since Xenical from Basel,
Switzerland-based Roche Holding AG in 1999.  Withdrawing Meridia may lead to higher standards for new
diet pills now under FDA review, said  Diana Zuckerman , president
of the National Research Center for Women & Families in
Washington.  The drugs are made by Mountain View, California-based  Vivus
Inc. , and  Arena Pharmaceuticals Inc.  and  Orexigen Therapeutics
Inc. , both based in San Diego. Arena’s lorcaserin was licensed
by Tokyo-based  Eisai Co. , and Orexigen’s Contrave is partnered
with Osaka, Japan-based Takeda Pharmaceutical Co.  FDA officials must show “they’re being fair and even-
handed,” she said in a telephone interview. “They should not
be approving new drugs that are no more effective and no safer
than Meridia.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catherine Larkin  in Washington at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 