-- Abengoa of Spain Hires Banks to Sell $600 Million of 7-Year Senior Bonds
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2010-10-08T15:13:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/abengoa-of-spain-hires-banks-to-sell-600-million-of-7-year-bonds.html
Abengoa SA , the Seville, Spain-based
engineering and biofuel production company, plans its first
dollar-denominated debt sale as non-U.S. borrowers account for
the most U.S. corporate bond sales in at least a decade.  Proceeds from the $600 million sale of seven-year notes may
be used to fund capital expenditures for the company’s project
pipeline, according to a person familiar with the transaction.
Abengoa will meet with investors next week and sell the senior
debt as soon as the five days beginning Oct. 18, said the
person, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  Issuance by foreign companies in the U.S. corporate market
of so-called Yankee bonds has accounted for 43 percent of sales
this year, compared with 37 percent in 2009 and an average 23
percent from 1999 to 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Companies in Spain have issued $7.8 billion of
dollar-denominated debt in 2010, Bloomberg data show.  “A lot of Yankees see rates as tremendously low, and they
want to come to market as soon as possible,” said  Rajeev Sharma , a money manager at First Investors Management, who helps
oversee $1.4 billion of investment-grade debt in New York.  Moody’s Investors Service  assigns  Abengoa a Ba3 rating,
three levels below investment grade. The average yield on
corporate junk bonds fell to 7.87 percent yesterday, the lowest
since June 19, 2007, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s U.S. High Yield Master II Index.  Expanding Capacity  Abengoa is expanding renewable energy capacity with
projects that typically cost more than traditional fossil-fuel
generation. The company on Sept. 2 agreed with JGC Corp. to
jointly invest 500 million euros ($696 million) in two solar
thermal plants in Spain. The technology uses mirrors to focus
the sun’s rays on a liquid to create steam to power conventional
turbines.  The Spanish company said at the time it was still seeking
financing for its Solaben plant in Extremadura and the two
Helios projects near Ciudad Real. In addition, it’s developing
solar thermal plants in the U.S., Abu Dhabi, Algeria and
Morocco.  Abengoa  has previously  issued debt in euros, Bloomberg data
show.  Credit Suisse Group AG, Bank of America Corp., Citigroup
Inc., and Deutsche Bank AG are managing the dollar debt sale,
the person said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sapna Maheshwari  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net ;
 Esteban Duarte  in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  