-- Abu Dhabi, Malaysia to Fund $8.4 Billion Kuala Lumpur Construction Project
-- B y   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y
-- 2010-10-08T06:16:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/abu-dhabi-malaysia-to-fund-8-4-billion-kuala-lumpur-construction-project.html
Sovereign wealth funds from Malaysia
and Abu Dhabi signed an agreement to build a 26 billion ringgit
($8.4 billion) international financial district in the center of
Kuala Lumpur.  1Malaysia Development Bhd.  will lead the project with Abu
Dhabi’s Mubadala Development Co. coming in as a strategic
investor, Malaysia Prime Minister  Najib Razak  said in a speech
today in Putrajaya, outside the capital. Mubadala is also
considering spending $7 billion on an aluminum project in the
country’s eastern Sarawak state, he said.  A 34-hectare (84-acre) site around Jalan Tun Razak, a major
thoroughfare in the center of Kuala Lumpur, has been identified
with construction slated to begin next year, according to a
joint statement. This is one of $444 billion worth of projects
targeted by Malaysia’s government in a bid to turn around a
slump in investment and help the country achieve developed
nation status by 2020.  “The plan is to have key regulators and institutions,
together with major banks and professional services firms,
including Shariah specialists, co-locate in the Kuala Lumpur
International Financial District,” said Najib.  The project should provide a  stimulus  for construction and
other related industries, Najib said. He didn’t say how much
each party would invest.  1Malaysia Development was formerly known as Terengganu
Investment Authority Bhd., the first wealth fund set up by a
Malaysian state. It is now owned by the Ministry of Finance.  Mass Rail  Malaysia plans to develop a nuclear energy industry, build
a mass rail network and create a shopping district to rival
Singapore’s Orchard Road as part of efforts to boost investment
and spur growth. These are among 131 potential private-sector-
led projects identified in an economic transformation program
unveiled last month.  Foreign investment in Southeast Asia’s third-largest
economy has fallen over the past three years amid growing
competition from neighbors including India and China, tumbling
81 percent last year, according to the United Nations 2010 World
Investment Report.  The country has capitalized on its Islamic credentials to
attract investments from bodies linked to Middle East
governments. PetroSaudi International Ltd. formed a joint
venture with 1Malaysia Development in September 2009 to invest
in high-impact projects. While the Qatar Investment Authority
signed an agreement in May to invest $5 billion on projects
including energy and real estate in Malaysia.  Aluminum Smelters  “Malaysia is an ideal investment platform for Abu Dhabi,”
Mubadala Chief Executive Officer  Khaldoon Khalifa  A Mubarak said
in Putrajaya today. “We are optimist about Malaysia as our
investment choice,” he said.  Mubadala, an investment unit of the Abu Dhabi government,
is looking at the feasibility of investing in an aluminum
project based on hydro-electric power, today’s statement said.
 Sumitomo Corp. ,  Rio Tinto Group  and Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd.
are already investing in smelting projects in Sarawak where the
2,400-megawatt Bakun hydroelectric dam is nearing completion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Manirajan Ramasamy  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barry Porter at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net  