-- Ackman's Pershing Discloses Stakes in J.C. Penney, Fortune
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r   a n d   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2010-10-08T20:56:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/ackman-s-pershing-square-discloses-16-5-stake-in-retailer-j-c-penney.html
Pershing Square Capital Management
LP, the New York hedge-fund firm led by  William Ackman ,
disclosed stakes in  J.C. Penney Co.  and Fortune Brands Inc. that
made it the largest investor in both companies.  Pershing Square took a 16.5 percent stake in J.C. Penney
equaling 39 million common shares, including about 4.15 million
options, according to a regulatory filing today. The firm plans
to engage in talks with J.C. Penney’s  board  and managers
regarding the company’s performance, according to the filing.
Pershing Square also disclosed a stake in Fortune Brands Inc.,
maker of Moen faucets and Jim Beam bourbon.  Ackman buys stock in companies he deems undervalued,
particularly in the retail, restaurant and real estate
industries, and urges changes he says will boost shareholder
returns. He pushed for a share buyback at Target Corp. in 2007
and lobbied restaurant chain Wendy’s International Inc. to sell
land after acquiring a 9.3 percent stake. J.C. Penney, whose
 sales  have shrunk 45 percent in the past decade, has dropped by
more than half since 2007.  “There is a lot of real estate and historically he’s been
a real estate-focused activist,” said Leah Hartman, senior vice
president and retail analyst at CRT Capital Group LLC, in
Stamford, Connecticut. “It certainly is a company that we see
value in.”  J.C. Penney owned 416 of the 1,108 stores it operated at
the end of January, according to a company filing.  Real Estate Investment  Vornado Realty Trust, Stephen Roth’s real estate investment
trust, said in a separate statement that it filed a Schedule 13D
with the Securities and Exchange Commission disclosing a stake
of about 9.9 percent in J.C. Penny.  Investors in a publicly traded company are required to file
a Schedule 13D once they reach a 5 percent stake and plan to
take an active role at the company.  Pershing Square and Vornado “intend to consult with each
other in connection with their respective investments in the
common stock,” Ackman’s firm said in its filing. Pershing
Square has no control over Vornado’s stake, it said.  Joseph Macnow , Vornado’s chief financial officer, declined
to comment.  In addition to real estate, J.C. Penney had $2 billion in
cash and cash equivalents in the quarter ended July 31. The
third-biggest department-store chain in the U.S. said yesterday
that comparable-store sales climbed 5.1 percent, exceeding
analysts’ projections.  $2 Billion Cash  “Ackman may be after share distributions,” Hartman said.
“They’re too conservative on their cash” and should use some
to pay down debt, Hartman said of the company’s management.  J.C. Penney, based in Plano, Texas, rose 85 cents, or 2.7
percent, to $32.49 in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading .
The stock has gained 63 percent since the start of last month.  The company last year adopted a severance plan that
provides top officers with payments should they lose their job
after an outside investor or investment group acquires shares
with 20 percent or more of the company’s voting power. Myron
Ullman, the chief executive officer, would be eligible to
receive 2.99 times his annual salary and target bonus upon being
dismissed following a “change in control,” according to a copy
of the severance plan filed with the SEC in 2009.  Tim Lyons, a spokesman for J.C. Penney, declined to
comment.  Fortune Stake  Pershing Square also has an 11 percent stake in  Fortune
Brands Inc. , according to a spokeswoman for the firm. The
company operates labels including Sauza tequila and Maker’s Mark
bourbon, as well as golf brand Titleist.  Deerfield, Illinois-based Fortune climbed 7.4 percent to
$55.85 in New York trading, the most since September 2009.  Fortune may be worth $60-$70 a share in a takeout deal
because the company’s spirits business is undervalued, Douglas
Lane, an analyst for Jefferies & Co. in New York, wrote in a
note to clients.  Clarkson Hine , a Fortune spokesman, declined to comment.
CNBC reported the Fortune stake earlier.  Pershing Square reported $5.84 billion in assets under
management in its most recent investment adviser registration
with the SEC. The firm also is the second-largest investor in
Ann Arbor, Michigan-based Borders Group Inc.  Ackman led an unsuccessful effort last year to place as
many as five board members, including himself, on Minneapolis-
based Target’s board. Ackman disclosed a 9.6 percent stake in
Target in July 2007, seeking the sale of its credit-card unit
and further share buybacks.  Target Campaign  Target announced a $10 billion share-repurchase program in
November 2007 and sold almost half of its credit-card portfolio
to JPMorgan Chase & Co. for $3.6 billion in 2008. In 2008,
Ackman proposed spinning off the land under Target stores into a
real-estate investment trust. Target management rejected
Ackman’s REIT proposal.  Ackman started his first hedge fund at the age of 26, three
months out of Harvard Business School in Boston. He and his
classmate David Berkowitz raised $3 million for their fund, even
though neither had any professional experience. Their clients
included the billionaire Ziff family, former owners of Ziff-
Davis Publishing Co., and Martin Peretz, editor-in-chief of the
New Republic and Ackman’s former Social Studies professor at
Harvard, where he also got an undergraduate degree.  He started Pershing Square in 2004.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lauren Coleman-Lochner  in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net ;
 Matt Townsend  in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  