-- Actelion Surges on Report It May Be Weighing Selling Itself
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2010-10-08T09:03:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/actelion-surges-most-in-three-years-on-wsj-report-company-may-sell-itself.html
Actelion Ltd. soared the most in more
than three years in Swiss trading after the Wall Street Journal
reported that the Swiss biotechnology company may sell itself.  Actelion has formed a committee of board members to
evaluate strategic alternatives, including a potential sale, the
newspaper said, citing unidentified people familiar with the
matter. The committee has hired a financial adviser and is
likely to take up informal approaches the company has received
from several large drugmakers, the Wall Street Journal said.  Actelion shares had fallen 28 percent this year through
Oct. 1 after disappointing clinical trials for two drugs. The
stock has rallied this week on takeover speculation.  “It makes sense that they evaluate their options,” Eric
Le Berrigaud, an analyst at Raymond James in Paris, who has a
“fair-value” recommendation on the stock, said in a telephone
interview today. “It may not necessarily mean a sale. It could
mean, for example, a strong shareholder coming in.”  Roland Haefeli, a spokesman for Allschwil, Switzerland-
based Actelion, declined to comment.  Actelion rose 4.10 Swiss francs, or 9.2 percent, to 48.80
francs at 10:40 a.m. in Zurich, giving the company a market
value of 6.3 billion Swiss francs ($6.5 billion). The stock
gained as much as 13 percent, the steepest intraday increase
since July 19, 2007. It’s up 22 percent for the week.  The stock rose 5 percent yesterday on speculation  Bristol-
Myers Squibb Co.  was buying shares and may make a takeover
offer. Bristol-Myers,  GlaxoSmithKline Plc ,  Roche Holding AG  and
 Amgen Inc.  could be among potential buyers, according to the
Wall Street Journal.  Study Failure  The company’s clazosentan medicine failed to meet the main
goal of a study in patients who had suffered from bleeding in
the brain, Actelion said Sept. 27. In March Actelion said its
best-selling Tracleer medicine failed to meet the primary goal
in a study of the drug in a rare lung ailment, dealing a setback
in the company’s effort to expand use of the treatment.  The U.S. Food and Drug Administration said Oct. 5 Actelion
failed to properly report more than 3,500 deaths in patients
taking its Tracleer or Ventavis medicines for the lung disease
pulmonary arterial hypertension. Actelion said it’s working with
the FDA and will adjust its reporting according to the agency’s
specifications.  The Swiss company has four medicines in the most advanced
stages of clinical testing needed to win marketing permission.
These include almorexant, an insomnia treatment licensed to
GlaxoSmithKline in 2008. Tracleer accounted for 82 percent of
revenue in the second quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  