-- Swiss Stocks Fall; Credit Suisse, UBS Slide, Actelion Surges
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2010-10-08T15:47:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/actelion-credit-suisse-givaudan-roche-may-move-swiss-equity-preview.html
Swiss stocks slid as a drop in the
country’s second-largest bank outweighed the biggest jump in
 Actelion Ltd.  since 2007 and U.S. employers cut more jobs from
payrolls than forecast in September.  Credit Suisse Group AG fell 1.9 percent after Barclays Plc
recommended selling the shares, while Switzerland’s largest
biotechnology company surged 10 percent after the Wall Street
Journal reported that the company may put itself up for sale.  The benchmark  Swiss Market Index  lost 0.2 percent to
6,363.16 at the 5:30 p.m. close in Zurich, sliding for the first
time in four days. The gauge has gained 1.3 percent this week.
The broader  Swiss Performance Index  dropped 0.1 percent today.  U.S. employers cut staffing by 95,000 workers after a
revised 57,000 decrease in August, Labor Department figures in
Washington showed today. The median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 5,000 drop. The
unemployment rate unexpectedly held at 9.6 percent.  “The payroll numbers will be one of the main guides when
the Fed meets on Nov. 3, a meeting that is expected to be
decisive for further quantitative easing or not,”  Filip Petersson , a strategist at SEB AB wrote in a note. “A negative
number is likely to increase expectations for quantitative
easing and send the dollar lower and support oil.”  Actelion, Credit Suisse  Actelion , the country’s largest biotechnology company,
jumped the most since April 2009, rising 10 percent to 49.34
Swiss francs, the biggest gainer in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
The company has formed a committee of board members to evaluate
strategic alternatives, including a sale. The directors have
hired a financial adviser, the Wall Street Journal newspaper
said, citing unidentified people familiar with the matter.
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co., Roche Holding AG, GlaxoSmithKline Plc
and Amgen Inc. could bid for the company, the Journal said.  Credit Suisse  slumped 1.9 percent to 42.40 francs, paring
four days of gains. The Swiss bank was cut to “underweight”
from “equal weight” at Barclays, which said Credit Suisse and
rival UBS AG “are undergoing substantial change, leading to
lower profits from both their investment banking and private
banking activities,”  Jeremy Sigee  and  Kiri Vijayarajah  wrote in
a note.  UBS AG, the country’s largest bank, fell 0.6 percent to
17.12 francs.  Newron Pharmaceuticals SpA , the Italian biotechnology
company, tumbled 8.6 percent to 5.85 francs, the shares’ biggest
decline since May 25. It said non-executive director  Herve Guerin  resigned for personal reasons and  Stefano Rossetti  left
to take on a “new professional challenge.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Ewing  in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 