-- Adobe Shares Rise on Report of Ties With Microsoft
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a   a n d   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n
-- 2010-10-08T20:17:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/adobe-shares-advance-on-report-that-company-met-with-microsoft.html
Adobe Systems Inc.  shares gave up
part of yesterday’s surge as speculation diminished that the
company may be bought by Microsoft Corp.  Microsoft Chief Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer  recently
met with Adobe CEO  Shantanu Narayen  to discuss closer
collaboration, the New York Times said yesterday. Two people
familiar with the matter confirmed that the meeting took place
at Adobe’s offices in San Francisco. They asked not to be
identified because the meeting was private.  “No comment,” Ballmer said today at a conference in
Madrid. He added jokingly that “if you are going to do
something, you say nothing. So I will be entirely consistent
with standard CEO operating procedure.”  While buying Adobe would furnish Microsoft with software-
development tools and mobile-phone features, the deal would be
expensive and may not pass muster with regulators, said  Brent Thill , an analyst at UBS AG in San Francisco.  “High price and antitrust could be hurdles,” Thill said in
note to clients yesterday. He has a “neutral” rating on
Adobe’s shares and a “buy” on Microsoft. Company executives
meet all the time, he said, downplaying the idea that a merger
is afoot. In addition, “Microsoft has a spotty M&A track
record,” he said.  Up and Down  Adobe  fell $1.70, or 5.9 percent, to $26.99 at 4 p.m. New
York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. Yesterday, the shares rose
as high as 17 percent, triggering a circuit-breaker halt for
five minutes.  Adobe’s software could augment Microsoft’s programming
language, .Net, which is the basis for programs that run on
Windows, said  Katherine Egbert , an analyst at Jefferies & Co. in
San Francisco. Microsoft, based in Redmond, Washington, also may
need help challenging Apple Inc.’s iPhone and  Google Inc. ’s
Android devices. Microsoft is preparing to release a new
operating system for smartphones, Windows Phone 7.  “It makes a lot of sense that they would want to get
together,” said Egbert, who recommends buying Microsoft shares.
“You’re taking Microsoft’s millions of .Net developers and
marrying them to the millions of creative developers who use
Adobe’s tools.”  The discussion between Ballmer and Narayen centered on
Apple’s control of the mobile-phone market and how the two
companies could work together to compete, the Times said. A
possible  acquisition  of Adobe by Microsoft was among the
options, according to the newspaper’s Bits blog.  Periodic Meetings  “Adobe and Microsoft share millions of customers around
the world and the CEOs of the two companies do meet from time to
time,” said Charles Sipkins, a spokesman for San Jose,
California-based Adobe. He declined to comment on the “timing
or topics of their private meetings.”  Adobe has clashed with Apple CEO  Steve Jobs , who banned
Adobe’s flash video software from Apple’s mobile devices. Adobe
won a partial victory on Sept. 9, when Apple eased restrictions
on creating applications for its iPhone and iPad devices. Apple
had barred developers from using Adobe’s Flash video software.  Still, the change didn’t let Flash apps run inside the
browser on Apple devices, and that’s a larger concern,  Jeff Gaggin , an analyst at Avian Securities Inc. in New York, said
last month. Apple, which dominates the market for mobile apps,
is promoting an Internet standard called HTML5 instead.  The meeting with Ballmer, which included a “small
entourage of deputies,” followed informal discussions about a
Microsoft acquisition of Adobe several years ago, according to
the New York Times.  Adobe forecast sales last month that fell short of
analysts’ estimates, sending the shares down the most in eight
years. Cash-strapped schools aren’t paying for as many copies of
its Creative Suite, which includes Photoshop and Illustrator,
the company said. The sluggish economy in Japan, typically
Adobe’s biggest Asian market, also hampered sales.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aaron Ricadela  in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael P. Regan  in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  