-- Agrium's $1.2 Billion Offer for AWB Is `Fair', Independent Expert Reports
-- B y   W e n d y   P u g h
-- 2010-10-08T03:29:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/agrium-s-1-2-billion-offer-for-awb-is-fair-independent-expert-reports.html
Agrium Inc. ’s A$1.2 billion ($1.2
billion) bid for  AWB Ltd. , Australia’s largest wheat exporter,
is in the best interests of shareholders, according to an
independent expert report.  The A$1.50 a share cash offer from North America’s third-
largest fertilizer producer by value, was “fair and
reasonable,” Lonergan Edwards & Associates Ltd. said in a
report prepared for Melbourne-based AWB and released today on
the Australian stock exchange. It’s unlikely a higher offer
would be received before shareholders vote on the bid next month,
the report said.  Purchasing the company will enable Calgary-based Agrium to
broaden sales of farm products such as fertilizer in Australia,
the fourth-largest wheat exporter. AWB recommended its
shareholders vote in favor of the bid, in the absence of a
superior offer, at a meeting on Nov. 16.  The offer price was at the upper end of  Lonergan Edwards ’
valuation range of A$1.26 to A$1.52 a share and was at a
“significant premium” to recent share prices for AWB, the
report said.  AWB  rose  0.3 percent to A$1.49 on the Australian stock
exchange at 12:35 p.m. Melbourne time. Agrium’s bid has received
clearance from Australia’s Foreign Investment Review Board, AWB
said Oct. 4.  Profit before tax and onetime items for the year ended Sept.
30 was likely to be “towards the lower end” of a previously
forecast range of A$75 million to A$95 million, AWB said today
in a statement.  The Australian commodities management business had
“underperformed in a challenging trading environment,” while
rural services and international commodities management had
performed to expectations, AWB said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wendy Pugh  in Melbourne 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  