-- LaHood Weighs Urging Ban on All Driver Phone Use in Cars
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e   a n d   J e f f   G r e e n
-- 2010-10-08T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/lahood-weighs-urging-u-s-ban-on-all-driver-phone-use-in-cars.html
U.S. Transportation Secretary  Ray LaHood  says he believes motorists are distracted by any use of
mobile phones while driving, including hands-free calls, as his
department begins research that may lead him to push for a ban.  LaHood, whose campaign against texting and making calls
while driving has led to restrictions in 30 states, says his
concerns extend to vehicle information and entertainment systems
such as  Ford Motor Co. ’s Sync and  General Motors Co .’s OnStar.  “I don’t want people talking on phones, having them up to
their ear or texting while they’re driving,” LaHood said in an
interview this week. “We need a lot better research on other
distractions,” including Bluetooth-enabled hands-free calls and
the in-car systems, he said.  Even without a ban, which would have to be implemented by
individual states, LaHood’s escalating campaign may limit the
growth of vehicle features such as Sync, being added by
automakers to attract younger buyers. His push also may reduce
calls made from vehicles and the revenue of mobile-phone
companies such as  Verizon  Wireless and  AT&T Inc.   LaHood, 64, said even hands-free phone conversations are a
“cognitive distraction.” Calling for a ban on hands-free
communications is a possible outcome of research under way at
the Transportation Department’s National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration into all driver distractions,  Olivia Alair , a
department spokeswoman, said.  Too Ingrained?  LaHood plans to meet with the heads of all makers of cars
sold in the U.S. to discuss their cooperation in limiting
distracted driving, he said in the Oct. 5 interview. He said
he’s not yet recommending restrictions on hands-free phone calls
and didn’t say when he might make a decision.  The transportation secretary may have little chance of
getting a ban by the states even if he decides one is justified,
said  Christopher King , a telecommunications analyst at Stifel
Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore.  “It’s so ingrained at this point, I think banning that
would be extremely difficult, bordering on folly,” King said in
an interview. “There would be no legitimate, public support for
an outright ban.”  The Transportation Department’s powers to push further
limits on distracted driving range from exhortations to setting
standards backed by the federal government’s financial clout.
The government previously awarded highway aid to states based on
whether they raised the legal drinking age to 21 or required
seatbelt use.  What People Do  The Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers wants to make sure
regulators don’t prohibit a wireless link in cars, said  Wade Newton , a spokesman for the Washington-based group, whose 12
members include Ford, GM and  Toyota Motor Corp .  Newton cited technologies that can automatically alert
emergency responders if a car crashes and systems being
developed that would alert drivers to changing weather or
accidents ahead on the road.  “Our feeling is it’s a matter of balancing what we know
people are going to do anyway with what technology can help them
do safer in a vehicle,” he said. “We know that people are
going to have conversations and look at maps and listen to music
in a vehicle.”  The Transportation Department estimated about 5 percent of
all drivers in 2009 were using mobile phones in their cars at
any given time.  LaHood began campaigning last year to limit driver
distractions that he says caused 5,474 deaths in 2009 and
accounted for 16 percent of all road fatalities. The total was a
6 percent decline from 5,838 in 2008.  Wrong Focus  “In one year, we have made a difference,” LaHood said of
his effort to win state restrictions. “Our goal is to get all
50 states.”  The  Insurance Institute for Highway Safety , which has said
LaHood is focusing too much attention on distracted driving
instead of other safety pursuits, released a study last month
concluding laws banning handheld texting don’t reduce crashes.
The study, using data from four states before and after they
enacted anti-texting laws, found the overall number of crashes
increased in three of the states.  The increase may stem from drivers taking their eyes off
the road even more as they try to hide their phones from view
while texting,  Adrian Lund , president of the industry-sponsored
group, said in an Oct. 5 interview.  Federal guidelines are planned next year to put into
writing LaHood’s views on how much, if any, mobile communication
by the driver is appropriate when a vehicle is in motion, said
 Ronald Medford , NHTSA’s deputy administrator.  Using Facebook  OnStar, with about 5.7 million subscribers, is testing an
application that would let users make audio updates to their
Facebook pages and have messages from the social-media site read
to them while driving. The system already provides crash-
notification services as well as directions and information such
as vehicle diagnostics.  “I’m absolutely opposed to all of that,” LaHood said,
when asked about drivers using the Facebook and Twitter social
networks. “That would be the biggest distraction of all. All of
that is well beyond the idea that you’re really trying to avoid
distracted driving.”  Rebecca White, an OnStar spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Ford has been selling Sync, based on  Microsoft Corp. ’s
voice-activated technology, since the 2008 model year. The
Dearborn, Michigan-based company added features such as touch-
command controls and voice-activated climate control this year.  Ford said in January it plans to bring social networking,
Web browsing and thumb controls similar to those on  Apple Inc .’s
iPod to 80 percent of its models by 2015.  Eyes on the Road  “Research clearly shows that voice-controlled connectivity
technologies provide substantial safety benefits because they
allow drivers to keep their hands on the wheel and eyes on the
road -- key factors in reducing driving distractions,” said  Wes Sherwood , a Ford spokesman.  “Car manufacturers always say ‘safety is our No. 1
priority,’ but yet you invest your money into developing these
systems where you can update your Facebook status,” said
Jennifer Smith, president of FocusDriven, a group whose founders
lost family members in distracted-driving-related car crashes
and wants all cell-phone use by drivers banned.  Chrysler Group LLC, which encourages drivers to use hands-
free devices if they need to talk and drive, is sponsoring a Car
and Driver magazine cellular phone application called TXT U L8r
that responds to text messages with an alert that the person is
unavailable, said Esperansita Bejnarowicz, a social-media
manager at Chrysler.  Wireless Revenue  The U.S. wireless industry generated $152 billion in
revenue last year from 2.3 trillion minutes of use, according to
CTIA -- the Wireless Association, a Washington-based trade group
that represents mobile-phone services.  “We support no texting and driving,” Marquett Smith, a
spokesman for Verizon Wireless, said in an e-mailed statement.
“If a ban is put in place, we will encourage our customers to
comply.”  The campaign against distracted driving and the use of
mobile phones in the car will continue in stages, LaHood said.  “The bottom line for me is to get where we’re at with seat
belts and with drunk driving,” LaHood said. “When those
programs were started, people were very skeptical that you could
get people to buckle up.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Angela Greiling Keane  in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Green  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 