-- Airbus Signing of A400M Military Transport Contract May Spill Into 2011
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2010-10-08T11:40:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/airbus-signing-of-a400m-military-transport-contract-may-spill-into-2011.html
Airbus SAS  may have to wait until the
first quarter of 2011 for governments that ordered its A400M
military transport to sign a final agreement on spreading extra
costs, a senior German official said.  Germany, the U.K., France and four other states agreed in
March to pay 25 billion euros ($34.8 billion) instead of 20
billion euros for the 180 planes. While the consensus is that
the contract can be signed within months, the partners are still
considering how to spread the cost overrun, Deputy Defense
Minister  Christian Schmidt  said in an interview.  “I’d be pleased if we could sign the contract in this
calendar year,” Schmidt said. “If that’s not the case, I
strongly anticipate that it will be ready in the first quarter
of 2011.” The basis for talks remains the March agreement, said
Schmidt, a lawmaker from the Christian Social Union.  Germany and Airbus parent  European Aeronautic Defence &
Space Co.  are pushing for a contract before lawmakers in Berlin
sign off next month on the 2011 budget, a finance plan that
includes A400M outlays. The talks have been overshadowed by
budget-deficit woes across the euro-region this year.  The A400M, which is being assembled in Spain, is costing
Airbus more than 100 million euros each month, with the first
planes now undergoing flight tests. EADS reported a  loss  last
year and scrapped its dividend because of provisions on the
A400M, which have swelled to about 4.2 billion euros to date.  Submitting Report  The Defense Ministry in Berlin is due to present a report
on its 2011 spending plan to parliament’s Budget Committee on
Oct. 19. The committee will sign off on all Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s 2011 budget portfolios on Nov. 11 before the federal
spending plan gains its final reading in parliament at the end
of that month.  Germany’s efforts to cut its deficit include a plan to
reduce military spending by 4.5 billion euros by 2014. The
government aims to make most savings in personnel as it cuts the
size of the army, allowing expanded investment in equipment,
said Schmidt. Outlays on key projects such as the A400M will not
be dented by the cuts, he said.  Airbus negotiated for a year to get the seven ordering
states to commit additional funding for the A400M. The original
accord called for delivery of 180 units at a fixed price. EADS
agreed in March that the nations could cut the figure by 10 to
170, deciding among themselves who would reduce their orders.  Cutting Back  Germany will “definitely be less than 60” planes that it
originally ordered, Schmidt said, without being more specific.
Apart from Germany and the U.K., none of the remaining five
partners seek to reduce orders, he said.  Those states have a “closer requirement” to incorporate
the plane in military operations, Schmidt said.  Germany is the biggest customer for the plane, followed by
France with 50, and the U.K. with 25. Spain, Turkey, Belgium and
Luxembourg have also signed on as customers.  Talks between the partners on technical specifications of
their A400M orders have made good progress, according to
Schmidt. Germany “doesn’t want a slimmed down version” of the
transporter and its order is “identical” to specification in a
preliminary contract, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian Parkin  in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrea Rothman  in Toulouse, France at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 