-- Airgas Bylaw Improperly Shortens Directors' Terms, Lawyer Argues at Trial
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2010-10-08T15:55:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/airgas-bylaw-improperly-shortens-directors-terms-lawyer-argues-at-trial.html
Airgas Inc. , trying to fend off a
$5.5 billion hostile bid from  Air Products & Chemicals Inc. ,
should be able to cancel a new bylaw that improperly shortens
directors’ terms on its staggered board, a lawyer argued.  Lawyers for Radnor, Pennsylvania-based Airgas contend
shareholders erred when they voted Sept. 15 in favor of the
bylaw backed by Air Products, which moved up the date of
Airgas’s annual meeting. Investors also added three Air Products
nominees to the  Airgas board . Under a staggered-board system,
only some directors are up for election at one time.  “A bylaw certainly cannot shorten the term” of a director
on a staggered board,  Theodore Mirvis , a lawyer for Airgas, told
Delaware Chancery Court Judge  William B. Chandler  III at a
hearing today in Georgetown.  Chandler is presiding over the trial of Air Products’
lawsuit over Airgas’s refusal to accept a takeover offer of
$65.50 a share. Air Products, based in Allentown, Pennsylvania,
is the second-biggest U.S. industrial-gases producer behind
 Praxair Inc.   The judge agreed to hear Airgas’s arguments that the bylaw
is aimed at allowing Air Products to take control of its rival’s
board more quickly. The bylaw moved Airgas’s annual meeting to
January from as early as April.  Chandler reserved his ruling on the meeting-date bylaw.
Both Airgas and Air Products asked him to hand down a decision
by Oct. 15 to allow time for them to prepare for a possible
meeting in January, the judge said.  Quick Decision  The judge said he planned to deliver “a decision faster”
than the parties sought on the annual-meeting issue and its
effect on staggered boards.  Airgas directors are elected to three-year terms under the
staggered-board system, which is part of a “web of anti-
takeover defenses” the company has erected, Air Products
lawyers said in court filings.  Directors are entitled to “serve out their full terms”
unless they are removed for cause, Mirvis told the judge today.
The meeting-date change improperly shortens those terms, he
said.  Moving the meeting to January also means Airgas would hold
the equivalent of two annual meetings in the same fiscal year,
Mirvis said.  “The word annual has to mean something,” the lawyer said.
Airgas’s staggered board was designed to force acquirers to wait
years to take control of the company, not months, Mirvis said.  No ‘Manipulation’  Air Products’ lawyer countered that Delaware law authorizes
shareholders to change companies’ bylaws and they aren’t
restricted on the interval between annual meetings.  Airgas investors’ decision to change the bylaw was an
“exercise of rights the shareholders have,” Gary Bornstein, an
Air Products lawyer, told the judge. “It’s not a
manipulation.”  Delaware corporate statutes don’t specify that the meetings
be held 12 months apart, Bornstein said. Air Products contends
that the meeting “has to happen once” a calendar year, he
said.  Chandler noted that Air Products holds its annual meetings
“about a year apart.”  Bornstein countered that Airgas has held annual meetings in
the past within a “five-month window” and its directors gave
themselves the flexibility under company bylaws to move around”
the meeting date in response to Air Products’ bid.  Airgas  fell $1.03, or 1.5 percent, to $67.54 at 11:43 a.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Air Products  rose
9 cents to $82.50.  The cases are Air Products & Chemicals Inc. v. Airgas Inc.,
5249, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington); and Airgas Inc. v.
Air Products & Chemicals Inc., 5817, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jef Feeley  in Georgetown, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 