-- Malaysia Marine Said to Draw Orders for Five Times Stock Available in IPO
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2010-10-08T09:59:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/malaysia-marine-s-660-million-ipo-said-to-be-five-times-oversubscribed.html
Malaysia Marine & Heavy Engineering
Holdings Bhd.  received demand for at least five times the stock
on offer in its $660 million initial public offering, according
to two people with direct knowledge of the matter.  Institutions have ordered the shares at the top end of the
price range, the people said, declining to be identified as the
information is confidential. The Kuala Lumpur-based company is
selling shares at between 3.60 ringgit and 3.80 ringgit, two
people with knowledge of the sale said on Oct. 5.  At the top of the range, the sale would surpass  Sunway Real
Estate Investment Trust’s  IPO in July as the country’s biggest
offer so far this year. The benchmark stock index this week
touched its  highest  level since Jan. 2008, underscoring rising
investor appetite as the nation rebounds from last year’s
recession.  The company, the marine heavy engineering arm of Malaysia’s
state-linked  MISC Bhd. , aims to raise as much as 2.04 billion
ringgit ($660 million), according to its share-sale document.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., Maybank Investment Bank Bhd. and
Credit Suisse Group AG are managing the share sale. The company
started taking orders for shares in Kuala Lumpur on Oct. 6 and
the offer is due to close on Oct. 14 after visiting Singapore
and Hong Kong.  Malaysia Marine spokesman M. Adnan Harun declined to
comment when contacted by Bloomberg by phone today.  The company intends to use some of the proceeds to upgrade
its Pasir Gudang heavy engineering shipyard in the country’s
southern Johor state, according to the prospectus issued on Oct.
6. The money raised will also partly finance its investment in
Turkmenistan’s Kiyanly yard, which it manages for Petronas
Carigali Sdn., it said.  MISC, the world’s biggest owner-operator of liquefied
natural gas tankers, is controlled by state oil and gas company
 Petroliam Nasional Bhd. , which also plans to list its
petrochemicals division this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chong Pooi Koon  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net  