-- Malaysian Sukuk Yields Drop on Second-Best Asian Currency: Islamic Finance
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2010-10-08T08:26:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/malaysian-sukuk-yields-drop-on-second-best-asian-currency-islamic-finance.html
Islamic bonds in Malaysia are luring
global investors seeking to profit from Asia’s second-best
performing emerging-market currency, driving yields to lows.  The 5.9 percent Shariah-compliant notes maturing in
December 2016 issued by Binariang GSM Sdn., owner of Malaysia’s
largest mobile-phone operator, returned 10.4 percent so far this
year, according to exchange operator Bursa Malaysia Bhd. The
yield dropped seven basis points to 4.47 percent yesterday, the
lowest since the debt was sold in December 2007. Malaysia’s
3.928 percent dollar-denominated sukuk due June 2015 returned 8
percent, prices from Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc show.  Emerging markets will draw funds from abroad as developed
nations pump cash into their slowing economies, increasing funds
available to invest in higher-yielding assets, according to
Bahrain Islamic Bank in Manama, CIMB-Principal Islamic Asset
Management Bhd. and Credit Suisse Securities (Malaysia) Bhd. in
Kuala Lumpur. The ringgit has rallied 10 percent this year
against the dollar, the best advance after the Thai baht among
the 10 most-active currencies in Asia outside of Japan.  “Currencies in Asia are still undervalued so you will
continue to see investors buying bonds in this market,”  Rohit Chawdhry , who oversees $350 million of assets at Bahrain Islamic
Bank, the country’s second-largest Shariah-compliant lender,
said in an interview yesterday. “Malaysian sukuk will continue
to give higher returns, more because of the appreciating
currency as the yields may not fall much further.”  Record Holdings  Sukuk issued by Malakoff Corp., a privately owned power
producer based in Kuala Lumpur, has also beaten returns on
Malaysia’s dollar-denominated notes this year.  Malakoff’s 6.08 percent Islamic bonds due April 2016
returned 16 percent, Bursa Malaysia prices show. The yield
dropped to 5 percent when last traded on Sept. 3, the lowest
level since June 2007. The yield on Rantau Abang Capital Bhd.’s
5.24 percent note maturing in September 2015 dropped to an all-
time low of 3.67 percent on Oct. 1, as the securities returned
6.6 percent. Rantau is a unit of Khazanah Nasional Bhd.,
Malaysia’s state investment agency, set up especially to issue
the debt.  International investors raised holdings of ringgit-
denominated government debt to a record 63 billion ringgit
($20.4 billion) at the end of August, 54 percent more than at
the end of last year, according to central bank data issued on
its website on Sept. 30.  “Overseas investors will probably be here for another one
to two years” until the U.S. recovers,  Hang Tuah Amin Tajudin ,
assistant vice president at OCBC Bank (Malaysia) Bhd., said in
an interview yesterday. “While they gain from currency
appreciation, falling yields will benefit local issuers because
they set a benchmark for issuance.”  Sales Drop  Global issuance of sukuk, which pay asset returns to comply
with the religion’s ban on interest, fell 16 percent to $11.8
billion so far this year from the same period in 2009, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Sales in Malaysia, the world’s
largest market for Shariah-compliant debt, dropped 26 percent to
19.3 billion ringgit, the least since the same period in 2006.  Sukuk returned 12 percent this year, according to the
 HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Index , while bonds in developing
markets gained 15 percent, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s  EMBI Global
Diversified Index  shows.  The  difference  between the average yield for emerging-
market sukuk and the London interbank offered rate widened eight
basis points yesterday to 348, according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ
Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index . The spread shrank 120 basis points
this year.  IFSB Initiative  Central bank governors and representatives from
multinational institutions signed an agreement yesterday to set
up the International Islamic Liquidity Management Corp., which
will issue short-term money-market products to help Shariah-
compliant banks manage funds, the Islamic Financial Services
Board, a global standard-setting body for the industry, said in
an e-mailed statement today.  The institution will be formally established on Oct. 25 in
Kuala Lumpur, where the IFSB is based, it said.  The yield on Malaysia’s 3.928 percent dollar-denominated
note has dropped 149 basis points, or 1.49 percentage points,
since the debt was sold in June to reach 2.4 percent today,
according to prices from RBS. The spread with the Dubai
Department of Finance’s 6.396 percent sukuk due November 2014
has narrowed 61 basis points to 354 since June 30, Bloomberg
data show. The Dubai notes yielded 5.98 percent today, down from
7.65 percent at the end of June.  ‘Good Currency’  “The ringgit is a good currency to own,” said  Zeid Ayer ,
who helps manage $1.6 billion of assets at CIMB Principal, whose
firm is a joint venture between U.S.-based Principal Global
Investors and Malaysia’s CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. “I would buy
ringgit-denominated sukuk.”  Investors added $1.1 billion to funds dedicated to
emerging-market debt in the week ended Oct. 6, according to an
e-mailed  statement  today from EPFR Global, a Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based research company. The inflows this year are
more than $39 billion, it said.  “They have noticed the strength of the ringgit and the
economy, and relative to what’s going on in the rest of the
world things look rather attractive here in Malaysia,”  Stephen Hagger , managing director of Credit Suisse Securities (Malaysia)
Sdn., said in a telephone interview yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Soraya Permatasari  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 