-- Malaysia's Export Growth Slowed in August in Sign Global Demand Weakening
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2010-10-08T10:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/malaysia-s-export-growth-slowed-in-august-in-sign-global-demand-weakening.html
Malaysia’s  exports  rose at the
slowest pace in nine months in August, adding to evidence that
weakening growth in the world’s largest economies is hurting
demand for Asian goods.  Overseas shipments climbed 10.6 percent from a year earlier
to 52.9 billion ringgit ($17.1 billion) after gaining 13.5
percent in July, the trade ministry said in a statement in Kuala
Lumpur today. The median estimate in a  Bloomberg News survey  of
19 economists was for a 14.7 percent increase.  The  International Monetary Fund  this week lowered its
forecast for global expansion in 2011, citing high unemployment,
public debt and fragile banking systems as risks to the world
economy. Malaysia’s central bank last month paused in its cycle
of raising interest rates as policy makers from the U.S. to
Japan took steps to shore up easing growth.  “Recent data suggest that the export and industrial-led
recovery is running out of steam, indicating that economic
activity is clearly cooling,”  Lee Heng Guie , chief economist at
CIMB Investment Bank in Kuala Lumpur, said before the report.
“The key risk to export growth momentum is the strength of
external headwinds emanating from the still-uncertain prospects
in advanced economies, especially a flagging U.S. recovery.”  Southeast Asia’s third-largest economy did “well” in the
third quarter even as there may be some deceleration in the
final three months, International Trade & Industry Minister
 Mustapa Mohamed  said yesterday. The country is on track to
regain the trade volumes and values reached in 2008, he said.  This month’s export increase was led by higher shipments of
electrical and electronics goods by companies such  Unisem (M)
Bhd. , as well as commodities including liquefied natural gas,
refined petroleum products, palm oil and rubber, the trade
ministry said.  The country’s  imports  in August rose 16.5 percent to 44.5
billion ringgit from a year earlier. The trade surplus widened
to 8.32 billion ringgit from 7.01 billion ringgit in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  