-- `Black Swan' Author Says Investors Should Sue Nobel for Crisis
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B a k e r
-- 2010-10-08T18:56:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/taleb-says-crisis-makes-nobel-panel-liable-for-legitimizing-economists.html
Nassim Nicholas Taleb , author of
“The Black Swan,” said investors who lost money in the
financial crisis should sue the Swedish Central Bank for
awarding the Nobel Prize to economists whose theories he said
brought down the global economy.  “I want to make the Nobel accountable,” Taleb said today
in an interview in London. “Citizens should sue if they lost
their job or business owing to the breakdown in the financial
system.”  Taleb said that the Nobel Prize for Economics has conferred
legitimacy on risk models that caused investors’ losses and
taxpayer-funded bailouts. Sweden’s central bank will announce
the winner of this year’s award on Oct. 11.  Taleb singled out the Nobel award to  Harry Markowitz ,
 Merton Miller  and  William Sharpe  in 1990 for their work on
portfolio theory and asset-pricing models.  “People are using Sharpe theory that vastly underestimates
the risks they’re taking and overexposes them to equities,”
Taleb said. “I’m not blaming them for coming up with the idea,
but I’m blaming the Nobel for giving them legitimacy. No one
would have taken Markowitz seriously without the Nobel stamp.”  Markowitz, a professor of finance at the Rady School of
Management at the University of California, San Diego, didn’t
return a phone call seeking comment. Miller, who was a professor
at the University of Chicago, died in 2000 at the age of 77.  “People used the theory and assigned numerical forecasts
to the algebra,” said Sharpe, a professor of finance, emeritus,
at the Graduate School of Business at Stanford University, in a
telephone interview. “But I’m not going to take the blame for
the numbers they put in.”  Probability Models  In his 2007 bestseller “The Black Swan: The Impact of the
Highly Improbable,” Taleb described how unforeseen events can
roil markets. He warned that bankers were relying too much on
probability models and disregarding the potential for unexpected
catastrophes.  “If no one else sues them, I will,” said Taleb, who
declined to say where or on what basis a lawsuit could be
brought.  The Nobel prizes in physics, chemistry, medicine, peace and
literature were established in the will of  Alfred Nobel , the
Swedish inventor of dynamite who died in 1896. The first awards
were handed out 1901. The Swedish Central Bank founded the
economics award in 1968 in memory of Nobel. Previous winners of
that prize include  Milton Friedman ,  Amartya Sen ,  Paul Krugman ,
 Robert Merton  and  Myron Scholes .  A former derivatives trader, Taleb is a professor of risk
engineering at New York University and advises Universa
Investments LP, a Santa Monica, California-based fund that bets
on extreme market moves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephanie Baker  in London at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alec McCabe at 
 amccabe@bloomberg.net  