-- American Apparel Hires Former Blockbuster CFO Thomas Casey as President
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2010-10-08T14:22:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/american-apparel-hires-former-blockbuster-cfo-thomas-casey-as-president.html
American Apparel Inc. , the Los
Angeles-based clothing retailer, hired former Blockbuster Inc.
executive  Thomas Casey  as its president to develop an operating
plan for the unprofitable chain.  Casey resigned as Blockbuster chief financial officer last
month, before the Dallas-based movie-rental chain filed for
bankruptcy on Sept. 23. Casey will report to Chief Executive
Officer and Chairman  Dov Charney  in his new role, American
Apparel said today in a statement.  American Apparel, which targets young people with colorful
T-shirts and dresses, lost money in the past two quarters after
expanding too fast. The company also fielded inquiries from
regulators over changing accounting firms and risks removal from
the NYSE Amex for failing to file financial reports on time.  Casey, who was Blockbuster’s finance chief for three years,
has 20 years of experience advising companies undergoing a
strategic change, American Apparel said. He also was managing
director at Deutsche Bank AG and worked at Citigroup Inc. and
Merrill Lynch & Co., the company said.  American Apparel was unchanged at $1.16 at 9:39 a.m. NYSE
Amex composite  trading . The exchange has given the retailer
until Nov. 15 to file its results for the quarter ended June 30,
following the change in auditors.  The retailer hired FTI Consulting Inc. to improve its
operations and doesn’t plan to file for bankruptcy, Peter Schey,
a lawyer representing the company, said last week.  FTI , based in
West Palm Beach, Florida, advises companies on litigation,
mergers and restructuring matters and worked with Circuit City
Stores Inc., the bankrupt retailer, and CIT Group Inc., the
commercial lender that emerged from bankruptcy last year.  Lion Capital  The retailer said last week it amended an $80 million  loan 
agreement with London-based Lion Capital LLP for a fourth time,
helping it avoid violating debt covenants. The change postponed
until next year a requirement for American Apparel to achieve an
earnings target.  Charney and  Lyndon Lea , founder of Lion Capital, are
working together to develop a strategic plan for the retailer,
the company said in today’s statement.  Accounting firm Deloitte & Touche LLP quit in July and told
American Apparel its 2009 financial  statements  may not be
reliable. The change prompted a subpoena from the U.S. Attorney
Office in New York and inquiries from the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matt Townsend  in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  