-- Manchester United Has 83.6 Million Pound Fiscal Year Loss on Player Sales
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2010-10-08T14:03:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/manchester-united-reports-133-million-fiscal-year-loss-on-player-sales.html
Manchester United  had an 83.6 million
pound ($133 million) fiscal-year loss because of costs related
to a bond sale and the failure to recoup as much from the sale
of players.  The 18-time English soccer champion’s holding company, Red
Football Ltd., spent 40.7 million pounds on a 526-million pound
bond to replace long-term bank debt, and had an unrealized
currency exchange loss of 19.3 million pounds. Red Football
announced the figures in an e-mailed statement.  The club had a profit of 25.6 million pounds last year,
when it benefited from the sale of  Cristiano Ronaldo  to Real
Madrid. Revenue rose 2.8 percent to a record 286 million pounds.
United sold Ronaldo for 80 million pounds in the 2009 offseason
and didn’t make any major player purchases or sales before this
year’s campaign.  “The loss is an accounting loss,” the club said in a
statement to Bloomberg News. “The business is in great shape,
which is exemplified by the 17 percent growth in commercial
revenue.”  While match-day revenue declined 8 percent to 100 million
pounds, income from media and commercial operations rose.
Available cash increased 8.8 percent to 163.8 million pounds,
meaning the owners still haven’t taken up the opportunity to
take up to 70 million pounds out of the business to pay off
other debts.  Fewer Matches  Match-day revenue declined because the team played fewer
matches. United finished in second place in the Premier League
last year, one point behind Chelsea, and was eliminated by
Bayern Munich in the quarterfinals of the Champions League.
After seven matches this season, United is in third place, five
points behind Chelsea and a point behind Manchester City.  The drop in income from operations at its Old Trafford
stadium is offset by income in its commercial arm. A London-
based sales team brought in new sponsorship and partnership
agreements with Turkish Airlines, Thomas Cook, Telekom Malaysia
and Chilean winemaker Vina Concha y Toro.  Under owners the U.S.-based Glazer family and led by former
J.P. Morgan banker Edward Woodward,  United  has changed the way
it deals with sponsors to allow it to strike exclusive deals
across several regions. In August, the club signed PCCW Group as
its official telecommunications and broadcast partner for Hong
Kong. Several similar agreements are expected to be rolled out
through the year, the club said.  Third Place  The club’s revenue puts it in third place globally for
sales behind Spain’s Real Madrid and Barcelona. Last month,
Premier League rival Arsenal announced record sales of 379.9
million pounds on property sales. Yet, the sales for the team’s
soccer activities declined by 1.3 percent to 222.9 million
pounds.  United supporters have protested against the Glazers for
increasing debt against the club to pay for their 2005 leveraged
buyout. The team’s parent company, Red Football Joint Venture
Ltd., owes more than 800 million pounds, including a payment-in-
kind loan that has ballooned to about 220 million pounds since
it was issued in 2006.  The rate of interest rose to 16.25 percent from 14.25
percent after the debt-to-earnings ratio exceeded a ceiling
agreed on by lenders. The owners bought about 20 percent of
those loans in 2008.  Six members of the Glazer family owe the club 10 million
pounds, the accounts said.  The club’s recently completed season-ticket sales helped to
increase its cash surplus. The figure will be diluted during the
year on salary costs, player trades and improvements to the
stadium and training facilities. The club has announced plans to
spend 11 million pounds on upgrading its Carrington training
complex. Salaries rose 7 percent to 131.8 million pounds. Other
costs fell by about 15 percent to 53.9 million pounds.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Tariq Panja  in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  