-- Hanoi's Millennial Celebrations Set to Showcase Vietnam's Economic Advance
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-08T07:39:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/hanoi-s-millennial-celebrations-set-to-showcase-vietnam-s-economic-advance.html
Hanoi will this weekend mark 1,000
years since it was first named Vietnam’s capital, a celebration
the government will use to show how economic growth has replaced
the deprivation that followed decades of war.  A parade with about 31,000 participants, including the
Vietnam People’s Army, will be held in the morning of Oct. 10 at
Ba Dinh Square, where  Ho Chi Minh  read the Declaration of
Independence in 1945. The city today canceled fireworks displays
at all except one of 29 planned venues in order to give money to
victims of floods in central Vietnam.  “Hanoi is on its way to becoming a thoroughly modern
city,” said  Peter Ryder , who runs $2 billion of property
developments as managing director of  Indochina Capital  and has
lived in Hanoi since 1992. “But right now it is in an awkward
place whereby a lot of forces of development, specifically
construction, are taking place on a haphazard basis.”  For Hanoi’s 6.5 million residents, living standards have
risen for the past two decades. That brought in foreign shops
and brands including Germany’s  Metro AG  and France’s  LVMH Moet
Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA , as well as the urban headaches of
traffic and construction. Vietnam’s capital will probably post
the fastest average economic growth of any city globally between
2008 and 2025, PriceWaterhouseCoopers said in a November report.  After suffering rations and shortages during its attempt to
follow strict Marxist economic policies during and after the war,
Hanoi’s renaissance began with the ruling Communist Party’s
shift toward a market-based economic system in 1986.  Incomes Surge  Vietnam’s  per-capita income  has jumped more than fivefold
in the past 15 years to $1,068, according to the International
Monetary Fund. In 1993, Vietnam was the world’s fifth-poorest
country by per-capita income after Mozambique, Tanzania,
Ethiopia and Sierra Leone, according to the World Bank. By 2009,
it ranked ahead of 36 countries.  For now, Hanoi’s focus is on commemorating the year 1010,
when Ly Thai To, the founder of the Ly Dynasty, abandoned Hoa-Lu,
about 50 miles to the south, and moved the capital to a site
along the banks of the Red River.  This shift marked the first time the city had been at the
head of an independent Vietnamese entity no longer under the
control of China, said Keith Weller Taylor, a professor of
Vietnamese studies at  Cornell University  in Ithaca, New York.  American Bombings  Hanoi is Vietnam’s biggest metropolis after Ho Chi Minh
City in the south, the financial hub. In the 1940s and 1950s,
Hanoi was known mainly as the center of resistance to French
rule. Forces led by Ho Chi Minh tussled for control of the city
that they had named as the capital of a newly independent
Vietnam, after Hue had claimed the seat of government in the
19th century.  In the following two decades, Hanoi became the focus of U.S.
attempts to prop up the government of southern Vietnam, and was
consequently bombed during the winter of 1972.  Vietnam’s economic renaissance has led to some high-profile
projects in the city. In 2007,  Keangnam Enterprises Ltd.  began
building what the South Korean company has said will be
Vietnam’s tallest skyscraper. A $265 million convention center
was built in the west of Hanoi, to host global summits such as
Southeast Asian Nations meetings this year.  The millennium celebrations include the building of a
6,950-square-meter ceramic mural touted as the world’s largest.  “Of course the government wants to take advantage of this
anniversary as an opportunity to promote the country,” said Le
Quoc Vinh, Hanoi-based chief executive of the  Le Group , which
operates magazines and a television channel. The number of
foreign visitors to Vietnam has increased 34 percent this year
through September, according to the government statistics office.  -- Jason Folkmanis  in Ho Chi Minh City, with assistance from Diep
 Ngoc Pham  in Hanoi. Editors:  Beth Thomas ,  Lars Klemming .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Folkmanis  in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Beth Thomas at   bthomas1@bloomberg.net  