-- Mantega's `Currency War' Backfires as Real Volatility Jumps: Brazil Credit
-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 2010-10-08T16:29:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/mantega-s-currency-war-backfires-as-real-volatility-jumps-brazil-credit.html
Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  pledged Sept. 27 that he would take measures to curb the
real’s volatility and limit its gains in response to a global
“currency war.”  So far he’s done the opposite.  One-month implied volatility on options for the real versus
the dollar, which reflects traders’ expectations of currency
swings, jumped to a two-month high of 13.7 percent from 11.16
percent on Sept. 27. The increase was the biggest over such a
period since May. The real advanced to a two-year high of 1.6632
per dollar this week as the swings picked up.  Mantega, 61, stepped up his attempts to stem the real’s
rally on Oct. 4 when he doubled the tax on foreigners’ purchases
of local fixed-income assets to 4 percent. Benchmark two-year
bond yields of 11.48, which compare to a record-low 0.35 rate on
two-year U.S. Treasuries, helped lure a net $34.6 billion into
Brazil’s bond and stock markets in the first eight months of the
year, the most since the central bank began collecting the data
in 1995.  “Volatility is never a good thing for policy makers and
for the economy,” said  Flavia Cattan-Naslausky , an emerging
markets strategist at RBS Securities Inc. in Stamford,
Connecticut. “The government wants to reverse the appreciation
trend of the real and that has changed the game.”  Foreigners held a record $89 billion of Brazilian local
bonds as of August, equal to 10.1 percent of the debt, according
to the central bank. Five years earlier, they owned $4.4
billion, or 0.8 percent of the total.  Record Deficit  The real is heading toward its eighth straight weekly
advance, the longest streak since 2004, and has surged 38
percent since the beginning of 2009, helping swell the country’s
annual  current account deficit  to a record $46 billion in
August. The rally extends the currency’s gain to 111 percent
since President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  took office in 2003,
the most in the world.  The increase in implied volatility in real options this
month was the third biggest among the world’s 16 major
currencies, after the Taiwanese dollar and the South Korean won,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Volatility has risen
from a two-year low of 10.47 percent on Sept. 16.  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, today to 195, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co. indexes.  Yields on Brazil’s interbank rate futures contract due in
January 2012 fell two basis points to 11.37 percent, suggesting
traders are betting the central bank will raise its benchmark
borrowing costs to about 12.25 percent by the end of 2011.  BOJ, China  Policy makers have boosted the rate 200 basis points this
year to 10.75 percent to cool the fastest economic expansion in
two decades and push inflation down toward their target 4.5
percent. Benchmark rates are near zero in the U.S. and Japan and
1 percent in the 16-nation euro-zone.  The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default for
five years fell two basis points to 104 yesterday, according to
CMA DataVision prices. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face
value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a government or company fail to adhere to its
debt agreements.  Mantega said on Sept. 27 that the government will buy all
“excess dollars” in the foreign-exchange market to curb the
real’s appreciation and reduce volatility. Brazil is not “going
to lose this game” as governments around the world engage in a
“currency war,” he told reporters in Sao Paulo.  ‘Nervous’ Investors  Bank of Japan sold yen for the first time in six years on
Sept. 15 while China capped the yuan from gaining further and
South Korea said it plans to audit banks handling foreign-
exchange derivatives.  In Latin America, central bankers in Colombia and Costa
Rica initiated programs to buy dollars last month to curb
currency gains and bolster exports. Brazil’s central bank bought
a record $10.8 billion in September to offset foreign investment
into the bond and stock markets.  The  bank’s purchases  are up from $3 billion in August and
$6.7 billion in October 2009, when Lula imposed a 2 percent tax
on foreigners’ investment in stocks and bonds. The government
left the equity tax at 2 percent this week while increasing the
levy on bond purchases.  “Capital controls are making people a bit nervous,” said
 Dirk Willer , head of Latin America local markets strategy at
Citigroup Inc. in New York. “In theory, if the 4 percent
doesn’t work, then they try 6 percent. If you go down that rout,
you can hurt people a lot. Clearly they are in an active mode.”  ‘Bubbles’  The Finance Ministry declined to comment in an e-mailed
response to questions yesterday.  Central bank President  Henrique Meirelles  said today that
the country is looking to “protect itself” as monetary
policies carried out by wealthier countries are creating
“excessive” inflows to developing nations that can lead to the
formation of “bubbles.”  “Brazil cannot pay an excessive price for the fact it’s
doing well while others are doing badly,” Meirelles said at an
event in Washington. “Many countries started to take measures
in this regard and, evidently, Brazil needs to take its measures
to protect itself from these imbalances.”  Mantega told reporters Oct. 5 that it will take time for
the tax increase to stem the currency appreciation and that the
real would have gained more had the government done nothing. The
currency advanced 2.1 percent, the most in four months, on that
day before sliding 0.9 percent the next day, the most since
August.  ‘Insufficient’ Measures  The measures are “insufficient” because the interest-rate
gap between Brazil and developed countries will keep attracting
capital to the country, said  Alejandro Urbina , who manages and
advises $790 million of emerging-market debt at Silva Capital
Management LLC in Chicago.  “It’s not as effective as they thought,” Urbina said in a
telephone interview. “There’s a fundamental reason behind the
real’s appreciation. It’s difficult for the government to stop
it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ye Xie  in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  