-- Arab Nations Support Abbas in Linking Peace Talks to Israel Settlement Ban
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2010-10-08T21:10:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/arab-nations-support-abbas-in-linking-peace-talks-to-israel-settlement-ban.html
The Arab League backed Palestinian
Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas ’s position not to resume U.S.-
brokered direct peace talks with Israel until the Jewish state
extends a freeze on settlement building in the West Bank.  An Arab League ministerial committee, meeting in Sirte,
Libya, said in a statement that it will meet in a month to
“explore alternatives” to direct talks, giving the U.S. the
chance to “create the suitable circumstances to bring the peace
process back to the right track, mainly stopping the
construction of settlements.”  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said on Oct. 4
that he was in “sensitive diplomatic contacts” with the U.S.
administration to find a solution to the crisis that would allow
the negotiations to continue. A 10-month partial Israeli halt to
the work expired Sept. 26.  Israel has signaled that a compromise may be reached in the
dispute over settlement construction. Incentives offered by the
Obama administration may allow Netanyahu to push through his
Cabinet a limited renewal of the freeze, Israel’s ambassador to
the U.S. said.  “The U.S. has come back to Israel with a number of
suggestions, incentives if you would, that enable the government
to maybe pass a limited extension of two or three months,”
Ambassador  Michael Oren  told the Washington Post.  Palestinian negotiators involved in the talks with Israel
have previously indicated a willingness to accept a temporary
extension of the building moratorium. The Arab League statement
also called for a halt in construction in east Jerusalem, which
the Palestinians seek as a future capital.  Continue Pressure  The Arab League’s support for Abbas echoes earlier comments
from Egyptian Foreign Minister  Ahmed Aboul Gheit .  “We are still demanding that the pressure for an extension
of this freeze continues,” Aboul Gheit said in televised
remarks broadcast by the Dubai-based Al Arabiya station before
the meeting in Libya. “There are still chances for this
extension.”  Arab League  Secretary-General  Amre Moussa  said in a
telephone interview yesterday that Abbas remains adamant that
the talks, which began Sept. 2, can’t proceed while the Israeli
building goes on.  “If settlement construction continues, all the talk about
a Palestinian state becomes meaningless,” Moussa said.  “This is everybody’s position,” he said. “We’re not
against negotiations, but we’re not just doing it for show.”  Increased Violence  The start of peace talks has seen an increase in violence.
Israel said its army today killed two members of the Islamic
group Hamas who were suspected of involvement in an attack near
a West Bank settlement in August that left four Israelis dead.  The military wing of Hamas, the al-Qassam Brigades, vowed
to avenge today’s killings “by all possible means.”  The two sides agreed last month to try to reach a
comprehensive agreement within a year. They will have to resolve
issues at the core of the conflict, including the borders of a
future Palestinian state, security arrangements for Israel, the
fate of Palestinian refugees and the status of Jerusalem.  Netanyahu agreed in November to the partial freeze on
settlement construction in a move he said was aimed at
persuading the Palestinians to return to the negotiating table.
The moratorium didn’t include about 3,000 housing units approved
before the freeze and some public buildings such as
kindergartens.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alaa Shahine  in Cairo at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 