-- Arkema Is Considering Bond Sales to Fund Expansion in China, Acquisitions
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2010-10-08T13:32:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/arkema-is-considering-bond-sales-to-fund-expansion-in-china-acquisitions.html
Arkema SA , the French chemical maker
spun off from Total SA, may sell bonds to expand in emerging
markets and extend its product range ahead of a  credit line 
expiring in 2013.  The company is looking to sell bonds progressively to
enhance financial flexibility as it “enters a much stronger
growth phase,” Chief Executive Officer  Thierry Le Henaff  said
in an interview in Paris.  “We’re here to move forward, invest in China, make some
acquisitions and a few divestments,” Le Henaff said.  Le Henaff said he’s looking to improve Arkema’s credit
 rating  after Moody’s Investors Service and Standard and Poor’s
this month graded the company just one-notch above non-
investment grade. The CEO aims to keep gearing, or the debt-to-
equity ratio, to below 40 percent from 18 percent on June 30.  Arkema’s earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization will exceed 600 million euros ($833 million) in
2010, Le Henaff said, repeating an August forecast. The jump
from an Ebitda of 310 million euros in 2009 is helped by the
purchase of acrylics assets from Dow Chemical Co. in January,
the expansion of a fluorochemicals unit in China, and rising
sales of very high-performance polymers.  “Markets remained as well-oriented in the third quarter as
in the second,” Le Henaff, 47, said. “We remain really
confident on market conditions.”  Acquisitions  Arkema, based in Colombes near Paris, wants to make
“targeted acquisitions to reinforce its best businesses” such
as acrylics, the CEO said. Fluor-based chemical products,
technical polymers, and sulfur chemicals are also earmarked as
growth areas.  Acrylics acids are used in paints and absorbents for
diapers, while fluor-based products are used to make air
conditioning systems and solar panels. Sulfur products are used
to improve furnace efficiency in the oil and gas industries.
Performance polymers can be used to make running-shoe soles,
cosmetics, and filters.  “We have to look at Brazil and India, but there’s still a
lot to do in China,” and the company may also invest in
Malaysia, Le Henaff said.  The company plans to add 400 million euros in revenue by
2014 through innovative products ranging from water-treatment
solutions, nanotechnologies, lighter materials and new energies.
These new products, not offered in 2008, will generate about 75
million euros in revenue this year, Le Henaff.  Arkema must keep improving productivity at its polyvinyl
chloride, or PVC, unit which makes plastic mainly for the
construction industry, Le Henaff said. “There are a lot of
players, probably too many,” he said.  Vinyl products had a breakeven Ebitda margin in the second
quarter. The company plans to bring that unit’s margin to 8
percent to 9 percent of sales in 2014 as part of a plan to bring
its overall margin above 13.5 percent. Arkema’s Ebitda was 7
percent of revenue in 2009.  Arkema stock has  increased  51 percent this year, giving the
manufacturer a market  value  of 2.4 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francois de Beaupuy  in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 