-- TARP a `Four-Letter Word' for Voters Even as Cost Drops
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2010-10-08T04:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/tarp-a-four-letter-word-for-voters-even-as-bailout-cost-estimates-plunge.html
Senator  Mark Begich  tries to give his
Alaska constituents the good news about the bank bailout.  The Troubled Asset Relief Program will cost far less than
government forecasts, he tells voters back home, pointing to
estimates indicating the price tag will be 80 percent lower than
projected. They aren’t impressed.  “They look at me like, ‘Yeah whatever, it was a bad
idea,’” said Begich, a Democrat. “Everyone hates TARP.”  Lawmakers, criticized throughout the election campaign over
the 2008 rescue plan that initially set aside $700 billion, are
getting no relief even as bank repayments send the projected
cost plunging. Voters so oppose the bailout that lawmakers say
it may not be worth the effort to change their minds.  “If you ask any pollster they’d say don’t mention” it,
said Begich, who is no fan of the program either, having
campaigned against it in his 2008 election. “People think TARP
is like a plague -- you touch it, you get diseased and you’re
dead,” he said. “There is no good news with it.”  A Pew Research Center  poll  released Oct. 6 showed that 46
percent of respondents would be less likely to vote for a
candidate who supported the bailout, while only 13 percent would
be more likely.  As a result, TARP has become a potent issue in this year’s
elections: Political campaigns have spent $50 million on
television advertisements criticizing the bailout, according to
 Evan Tracey , president of Kantar Media’s CMAG in Arlington,
Virginia, which tracks political ads.  Beset With Complaints  Republicans including Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , House Minority Leader  John Boehner  and
Representatives  Eric Cantor  and  Paul Ryan , as well as Democrats
such as House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi , Majority Leader  Steny Hoyer 
and Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , voted for the bailout in
October 2008, heeding warnings by then-Treasury Secretary  Henry Paulson  that failure to act could lead to economic turmoil.  Since then, lawmakers have been buffeted by complaints
about tax dollars going to firms paying million-dollar bonuses,
concern over budget  deficits , and voter objections that it was
unfair for the government to rescue banks that caused the
crisis, which has pushed the  jobless rate  to almost 10 percent.  The hostility has persisted even as the Congressional
Budget Office cut its estimate of the program’s cost three
times. As of August, the CBO expects the  price  tag to total $66
billion, down from the $356 billion it predicted 18 months ago.  Reaping Profits  The Treasury Department  estimated  this week that TARP may
cost taxpayers as little as $51 billion, less than half what it
took to clean up the 1980s  savings-and-loan  crisis. The cost
could shrink to $29 billion if the U.S. reaps expected profits
from its other, non-TARP aid to insurer  American International
Group Inc. , it said.  The government profited from interest and dividends paid by
banks and by selling warrants -- the right to buy stocks at a
fixed price -- that became more valuable as bank  shares
rebounded  from the crisis. The portion of TARP aiding banks will
produce a $16 billion profit, the Treasury Department says.  The government also committed just $507 billion, at the
program’s peak, of the original $700 billion package, according
to the TARP congressional oversight panel.  Some banks paid steep premiums for the assistance.
Taxpayers made a 23 percent annualized return on the  $10 billion 
provided to  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , the panel said.  “If the government could make 20 percent on everything we
put money into, we wouldn’t have a deficit,” said Senator  Judd Gregg , a New Hampshire Republican who was one of the program’s
architects. “TARP’s an easy four-letter word” but “it’s a
pretty good deal for American taxpayers.”  Biggest Losers  The big losers will be aid to automakers and homeowners.
The administration estimates the government will recover $65
billion of the $82 billion it put into  General Motors Co. ,
Chrysler and others in the industry. A program to help
homeowners pay mortgages will cost $46 billion.  The financial returns offer little consolation to
Republican incumbents -- including Senator  Lisa Murkowski  of
Alaska, and Representatives  Mike Castle  of Delaware and  Bob Inglis  of South Carolina -- who lost primary elections to
candidates seizing on public outrage over the program.  The funds are coming back “as I predicted” and “the
taxpayer will probably make money,” said Senator  Bob Bennett , a
Utah Republican dubbed “Bailout Bob” on his way to losing his
party’s endorsement in May for a fourth term.  ‘Just Doesn’t Matter’  That hasn’t made much difference to many voters.  “This is one of those things the public knows for a
‘fact,’ and it just doesn’t matter what the reality is,” said
 Doug Elliott , a former  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  banker and now an
economics fellow at the Washington-based Brookings Institution.  TARP critics said even with reduced cost estimates,
taxpayers are still on the hook for billions.  “We may not lose as much as we thought,” said Senator  Jim DeMint , a South Carolina Republican. Still, “we were told it
would make a profit” and “the chances of getting it all back
and making money are slim to none.”  That sentiment is so pervasive that Representative  James McGovern , a Massachusetts Democrat who backed the bailout, said
he won’t spend much time telling voters about the lower
estimates.  “Most people have no clue that it’s being paid back,”
McGovern said. “In the course of a campaign you focus on a
handful of things, and if you have to start explaining things
you’re in trouble.”  Republican Votes  That 91 House Republicans, including the leadership, backed
TARP hasn’t stopped the National Republican Congressional
Committee from targeting Democrats for casting the same vote.
TARP was approved in the  House  263-171, with 172 Democratic
votes. It passed the  Senate  74-25, with support from 34
Republicans.  Democrats such as Missouri senatorial candidate  Robin Carnahan  are also blasting opponents for supporting the
legislation.  The TARP name has become “like ‘junk bonds’ or ‘subprime
lending,’” said Senate Banking Committee Chairman  Christopher Dodd , a Connecticut Democrat. “You say certain words and it’s
like Pavlov’s dog -- people just respond to it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Faler  in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 