-- Asia's Reserves Rising at Fastest in History as $2 Billion a Day Flows In
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2010-10-08T00:59:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/asia-s-reserves-rising-at-fastest-in-history-as-2-billion-a-day-flows-in.html
Asia has attracted $2 billion of
capital inflows daily since April 2009 and its foreign reserves
have risen “significantly faster than any time in history,”
according to  DBS Group Holdings Ltd .  Central bank purchases of debt and currency intervention in
developed economies are “flooding markets with liquidity” and
the funds are flowing to Asia in anticipation of higher returns,
 David Carbon , head of economic and currency research at DBS Bank
in Singapore, wrote in a report yesterday. The lender is a unit
of Southeast Asia’s biggest banking group.  The surge is making Asian assets a “one way bet” for years
to come, according to Carbon, who has analyzed Asian and Group
of 10 economies for almost two decades.  The MSCI Asia Pacific
Index  of stocks has advanced 8 percent so far this year, twice
the advance of the U.S.  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  and more
than double the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  “With the U.S., Japan and England now on the verge of
another round of quantitative easing, it is little wonder that
most strategists” predict further gains in Asian equities, bonds
and currencies, Carbon said.  Asia has seen foreign-exchange reserves soar by $926
billion since April 2009, or equivalent to about 13 percent of
the region’s gross domestic product, according to DBS estimates.
All of the region’s major currencies, except the U.S.-dollar
pegged Hong Kong dollar, have strengthened this year even as
policy makers across the region sought to stem the gains.  Biggest Reserves  China has accumulated the world’s largest reserves, at
$2.45 trillion in June, as the nation resisted calls to let the
yuan rise faster. Japan has the second-biggest tally, with $1.05
trillion, and last month its authorities intervened in the
foreign-exchange market for the first time in six years, selling
more than 2 trillion yen.  The U.S. Federal Reserve’s quantitative-easing programs
during the financial crisis included acquiring assets such as
mortgages and government securities. The central bank bought
$1.7 trillion worth of Treasury and mortgage debt in a program
that ended in March. The purchases helped push mortgage rates to
historic lows.  “By hook or by crook -- quantitative easing or currency
intervention -- the Fed is flooding markets with liquidity,
Japan is flooding the markets with liquidity and the U.K. is
flooding markets with liquidity,” Carbon said. “A lot of it
has gone to Asia, and for good reason. Asia didn’t stop growing
just because the U.S. and Japan and Europe did.”  Fed Outlook  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his colleagues have
signaled they may announce the purchase of more Treasuries as
soon as their next policy meeting in November in an effort to
boost growth and reduce an unemployment rate stuck near 10
percent for the past year.  The Bank of Japan said this week it will establish a 5
trillion yen ($61 billion) fund to buy government bonds and
other assets. Japan last month sold its currency for the first
time in six years to restrain the yen and protect exporters.
Countries from China to Brazil and South Korea have also taken
steps to limit gains in their currencies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  