-- Attorneys General in 40 States Said to Join on Foreclosures
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2010-10-08T21:43:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/attorneys-general-in-40-states-said-to-join-on-foreclosures.html
Attorneys general in about 40 states
may announce a joint investigation into foreclosures at the
largest banks and mortgage firms, according to a person with
direct knowledge of the matter.  State attorneys general led by Iowa’s  Tom Miller  are in
talks that may lead to the announcement of a coordinated probe
as soon as Oct. 12, said the person, who declined to be
identified because a final agreement hasn’t been reached. The
number of states may change because several are still deciding
whether to join the investigation, the person said. New Mexico
Attorney General  Gary King  said today in a statement that his
state will join a multi-state effort.  Lawyers representing the banks are expecting a more
widespread investigation, according to Patrick McManemin, a
partner at Patton Boggs LLP, a Washington-based law firm that
represents banks, loan servicers and financial institutions.
 Bank of America Corp. , the biggest U.S. lender, today extended a
freeze on foreclosures to all 50 states.  “We are aware of or involved in a large number of
investigations that lead us to believe there are in the
neighborhood of 40 state attorneys general who have initiated
investigations or expressed an interest,” McManemin said in a
telephone interview.  Officials in at least seven states have already announced
investigations into claims that employees at home lenders and
loan servicers signed court documents without ensuring the
information was accurate. Yesterday, Miller said in a statement
that he was working with state officials, banking regulators and
the U.S. Justice Department to launch a coordinated review.
Attorneys general in Ohio and Connecticut have said some of the
practices may amount to fraud.  Bank of America,  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and Ally Financial
Inc. already froze foreclosures in 23 states where courts
supervise home seizures amid allegations that employees used
unverified or false data to speed the process.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dakin Campbell  in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
 Prashant Gopal  in New York at 
 Pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alec McCabe at 
 amccabe@bloomberg.net . 