-- Latvian Shipping Builds Fence Around Office as It Blocks Shareholders Meet
-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 2010-10-08T14:40:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/latvian-shipping-builds-fence-around-office-as-it-blocks-shareholders-meet.html
AS Latvian Shipping Co. , Latvia’s
biggest shipping company, erected a temporary fence around its
Riga offices today as it canceled a shareholders’ meeting called
by its largest investor.  The fence was built and barbed wire installed to protect
workers after news reports that opposing groups attacked each
other at Ventbunkers, a related company, said Edvins Berzins, a
Latvian Shipping board member. The confrontation at Ventbunkers
took place in June, according to the Leta news service.  “Our security service informed us that these types of
provocations were possible, including the presence of physical
force,” Berzins said at a news conference. “Taking into
account the advice from the security experts we carried out this
action.”  A/S Ventspils Nafta , a Latvian port and terminal operator
whose largest shareholder is Geneva-based Vitol Group, owns 49.9
percent of the shipping company. Ventspils Chief Executive
Officer  Simon Boddy  said the company called the shareholders’
meeting to discuss a low-cost 12-person supervisory council for
Latvian Shipping. The meeting was canceled by Latvian Shipping.  Vitol, the world’s largest independent oil trader, owns
49.5 percent of Ventspils Nafta.  “We as VN and as Vitol are extremely disappointed that
this meeting has not taken place,” Ventspils Chief Executive
Officer  Simon Boddy  said at a separate news conference outside
the Latvian Shipping offices in Riga. “Please look behind me.
Here is a wonderful example of what Latvian shipping management
does. What have they have to hide?”  Board Costs  Latvian Shipping’s current supervisory board has cost 5
million lati ($9.8 million) over the past 3 years, according to
Boddy. Berzins declined to confirm the figure, saying board
member salaries are confidential.  Ventspils is the second-biggest company on the 34-member
OMX Riga stock index, with a weighting of 20.2 percent, behind
Latvijas Gaze AS at 25.9 percent. Latvian Shipping is third at
16.8 percent.  Ventspils, based in the Latvian city of the same name, has
gained 77 percent this year in Riga trading. It rose 3.8 percent
to 1.66 lats yesterday, the last day trades were recorded,
giving it a market value of 173.4 million lati. Riga-based
Latvian Shipping fell 2.4 percent to 0.4 lats today, valuing it
at 80 million lats.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Eglitis  in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  