-- Authority Recommends up to 37% Cuts to Murray-Darling Farmland Irrigation
-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 2010-10-08T05:34:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/authority-recommends-up-to-37-cuts-to-murray-darling-farmland-irrigation.html
Irrigation in the Murray-Darling
Basin should be cut by as much as 37 percent to protect the
environment in a drought-prone region that is home to almost
half of Australia’s farms, according to a government-
commissioned report today.  The government should buy 3,000 to 4,000 gigaliters of
water from irrigators and divert it back into the river system,
a measure that would reduce farm production by 13 percent and
cost 800 jobs, the Murray-Darling Basin Authority said.  “The environment has not had significant water for
decades,” the report said. “The real possibility of
environmental failure now threatens the long-term economic and
social viability of many industries and the economic, social and
cultural strength of many communities.”  The Murray-Darling flows through four Australian states and
covers 1.06 million square kilometers, an area almost 1 1/2
times the size of Texas. About 93 percent of the nation’s fresh
food comes from the region, which accounts for A$15 billion
($14.8 billion) worth of Australian crop and livestock exports,
according to government figures.  Farmers are granted entitlements to set amounts of
irrigated water and the buyback plan would cost the government
as much as A$4 billion on current pricing, according to the
authority.  Grain, Cotton Production  Australia is emerging from a drought that began in 2002,
slashing grain and cotton crops and denting the farm industry
that makes up almost 12 percent of the economy, compared with 8
percent for mining, according to industry figures. Above-average
rainfall this year may boost wheat production to the third-
highest on record, the government’s commodity forecaster says.  Water is an issue for Prime Minister  Julia Gillard , who had
to form a minority government with backing from the Greens Party
and three independents from rural farming districts after the
Aug. 21 election delivered the closest result in 70 years.  To secure backing for her government’s legislative agenda,
Gillard must satisfy the independents and the Greens, who want
more water diverted to protect the environment in the world’s
driest inhabited continent.  The Murray-Darling authority is due to release its basin
plan early next year, which will be followed by 15 weeks of
consultation. The proposal will then be presented to the
government and to parliament late next year or in early 2012.
State governments will be required to write new water resources
plans to take effect by 2019.  The Murray-Darling Basin accounts for 90 percent of
Australia’s cotton production. The nation was the world’s
fourth-largest shipper of the fiber in the year ended July 31,
according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gemma Daley  in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  