-- Baht's Gains Can Be `Managed' to Reduce Volatility, Finance Minister Says
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2010-10-08T23:24:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/baht-s-gains-can-be-managed-to-reduce-volatility-finance-minister-says.html
Thailand faces a “challenge” as
gains in the baht are making its exports less competitive and it
can try to reduce volatility in the currency, Finance Minister
 Korn Chatikavanij  said.  “We can try to manage it so there’s no excessive
volatility,” Chatikavanij said yesterday in an interview in
Washington. “I don’t think a country like ours can forcibly
change the fundamental direction of our currency.”  The baht’s 11 percent gain this year, the largest among
Asia’s 10 most-traded currencies outside Japan, has raised
concern that overseas  shipments , accounting for almost two-
thirds of Thailand’s economy, may slow. Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  said this week that Thailand “might do more” such as
relax limits on money outflows and boost support for exporters.  Still, the baht’s appreciation is a “happy problem,”
Chatikavanij said, reflecting the country’s rapid recovery and
economic strength even as it means goods made in Thailand become
more expensive for overseas buyers.  The  Bank of Thailand  last month said it only intervenes in
the currency markets to smooth volatility, and doesn’t attempt
to control the baht’s level. The baht gained beyond 30 against
the dollar on Oct. 6 for the first time since July 1997, the
year the local currency’s devaluation triggered the Asian
financial crisis.  Foreign Capital  Thailand has become a “haven” for inflows of foreign
capital, which has caused the baht to rise, Chatikavanij said in
a speech yesterday at the annual meeting of the Institute of
International Finance in Washington. The currency increase is
“a challenge in terms of how we can adjust our exports sector
to the fact that we are becoming less price competitive,” he
said.  Currency gains pose “a particular challenge” to members
of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations that are heavily
dependent on exports, he said.  Countries from Brazil to South Korea have taken steps to
cool currency appreciation amid rising capital inflows. The
effect of the dollar’s weakness on Asian trade also spurred
Japan to intervene last month for the first time in six years to
restrain the yen, while China is resisting calls to let the yuan
rise faster.  Policy makers attending the International Monetary Fund’s
annual meeting have expressed concern that efforts to boost
exports by embracing weaker currencies threatened to provoke
protectionism and trade imbalances at a time when economic
growth is already slowing.  “The way to do this is for large countries to sit down
together and have an agreement” on solutions to the currency
issue, Chatikavanij said in the interview. “That’s not done
unilaterally.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  