-- Balfour Letter to Rothschild Sowed Dragon’s Teeth: Lewis Lapham
-- B y   L e w i s   L a p h a m
-- 2010-10-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/balfour-letter-to-rothschild-sowed-dragon-s-teeth-lewis-lapham.html
About 300,000 Jews lived in Great
Britain just before the outbreak of World War I.  Most were
recent refugees from the pogroms of Eastern Europe and Russia
and worked in sweatshops and mills. Only 8,000 belonged to
Zionist organizations.  Rich established Jews, or the “Cousinhood” consisting of
a few interlinked families, among them the Rothschilds,
Montefiores, Mocattas, Cohens, Goldsmids, Samuels and Montagus,
were even less likely to yearn for a Middle Eastern homeland.  They identified themselves as Jewish Britons, not British
Jews, and strongly disagreed with Zionists who argued that Jews
constituted a separate people or nation.  When his father died in 1915, Walter Rothschild became the
head of the family and the de facto leader of British Jewry.
Ardent Zionist Chaim Weizmann won him over, as well as many
others, including government officials.  On Nov. 2, 1917 Lord Rothschild received a letter from
British Foreign Secretary Arthur Balfour expressing formal
support for a national home in Palestine for the Jewish people.  Since then, there has been nearly a century of conflict
between Arabs and Jews in the Middle East.  I spoke with Jonathan Schneer, author of “The Balfour
Declaration: The Origins of the Arab-Israeli Conflict,” on the
following topics:  1. Letter to Lord Rothschild  2. British Promises to Arabs  3. British Promises to Jews  4. Anti-Zionist Jews  5. Sowing the Dragon’s Teeth  To listen to the podcast, click  here . To buy this book in North
America, click  here .  ( Lewis Lapham  is the founder of  Lapham’s Quarterly  and the
former editor of Harper’s magazine. He hosts “The World in
Time” interview series for Bloomberg News.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Lewis Lapham in New York at 
 lhl@laphamsquarterly.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 