-- BofA Extends Freeze on Foreclosures to All 50 States
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e ,   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-10-08T20:25:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/bank-of-america-extends-freeze-on-foreclosures-to-all-50-states.html
Bank of America Corp. , the biggest
U.S. lender, extended a freeze on foreclosures to all 50 states
as concern spread among federal and local officials that homes
are being seized based on false data.  “We just want to clear the air,” Bank of America Chief
Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  said today in a speech to
the National Press Club in Washington.  Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Ally Financial
Inc. already froze foreclosures in 23 states where courts
supervise home seizures amid allegations that employees used
unverified or false data to speed the process. Bank of America’s
new policy extends its moratorium to the entire nation, and the
announcement spurred more demands from public officials and
community groups for other banks to follow suit.  “All mortgage providers should follow the example of Bank
of America and review their practices to ensure that they are
not unfairly targeting homeowners in Nevada and across the
nation,” Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Democrat from
Nevada, said today in a statement.  PNC Financial Services Group Inc.  halted sales of
foreclosed homes for a month to review documents in its mortgage
servicing procedures, according to an Oct. 4 memo the
Pittsburgh-based bank sent to lawyers handling the lender’s
foreclosures.  Bank of America fell 13 cents, or 1 percent, to $13.18 at 4
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading . The shares
have lost 12 percent this year.  States Investigating  “We will stop foreclosure sales until our assessment has
been satisfactorily completed,” the Charlotte, North Carolina-
based company said today in a  statement . “Our ongoing
assessment shows the basis for foreclosure decisions is
accurate.”  At least seven states are investigating claims that home
lenders and loan servicers took shortcuts to speed foreclosures.
Attorneys general in Ohio and Connecticut have said some of the
practices used by banks to take away homes may amount to fraud.
Acting Comptroller of the Currency  John Walsh  last week asked
the nation’s seven biggest lenders to review foreclosures for
defective documents, spokesman  Bryan Hubbard  said.  “Bank of America has done the right thing by stopping
foreclosures in all 50 states,” North Carolina Attorney General
 Roy Cooper  said today in a statement. “Other banks that have
questionable procedures should do the same while the
investigation continues.”  President  Barack Obama ’s administration didn’t pressure the
bank to enact the freeze, Moynihan said.  Record Foreclosures  Lenders took possession of a record 95,364 homes in August
and issued foreclosure filings to 338,836 homeowners, or one of
every 381 U.S. households, according to  RealtyTrac Inc. , an
Irvine, California-based data vendor.  Wells Fargo spokeswoman Vickee Adams said the lender is
still processing foreclosures and referred to a statement the
bank put out earlier this week, saying “our affidavit
procedures and daily auditing demonstrate that our foreclosure
affidavits are accurate.”  Thomas Kelly , a spokesman for New York-based JPMorgan, and
 Gina Proia , spokeswoman for Detroit-based Ally, declined to
comment.  “Bank of America has made the right choice given the
circumstances of this scandal,” said  Kevin Stein , associate
director of the California Reinvestment Coalition in San
Francisco. “The primary concern for all of these banks should
be to figure out where they are handling foreclosures illegally
before they erroneously and unfairly take another family’s
home.”  Lawmakers React  In Washington, dozens of lawmakers in Congress have called
for a freeze on foreclosures and are seeking investigations.
House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman
 Edolphus Towns  yesterday demanded a moratorium and asked New
York State Attorney General  Andrew Cuomo  to investigate
allegations of fraud. Towns, a New York Democrat, led hearings
last year into Bank of America’s federal bailouts.  “The implications of ignoring the foreclosure problems are
far too great to be ignored,” Towns said in a statement. “Bank
of America did the right thing today and I expect to see every
other responsible banking institution follow their lead.”  On Wednesday, two members of the House Financial Services
Committee,  Luis Gutierrez  of Illinois and  Dennis Moore  of
Kansas, asked the Special Inspector General of the Troubled
Asset Relief Program to investigate foreclosure practices.  ‘Unwarranted Foreclosures’  “There is already enough evidence of unwarranted
foreclosures and irregularities by lenders and servicers to
warrant full investigations into the practices of these
financial institutions,” the lawmakers wrote in a letter.  A coalition of community organizer groups and labor unions,
including the National People’s Action and the Service Employees
International Union, called for a national freeze on
foreclosures.  “It is unconscionable that Wall Street banks continue to
use a corrupt and fraudulent procedure to flood the housing
market with illegal foreclosures that are throwing millions of
American families out of their homes,” the groups said in a
statement today. “It’s the latest example of a predatory
industry.” 