-- Bank of Canada Polls Show Investment and Sales Optimism, Easier Credit
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2010-10-08T14:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/bank-of-canada-polls-show-investment-and-sales-optimism-easier-credit.html
The Bank of Canada says its quarterly
poll of executives found a record high gauge of investment plans
and optimism about  future sales , as well as easier access to
credit.  Some 46 percent of companies said they plan to increase
machinery and equipment investment over the next 12 months while
10 percent predicted less, the Bank of Canada said today in its
quarterly Business Outlook  Survey  from Ottawa. The bank said
this was the widest gap since executives were first asked the
question in 1998.  Another 55 percent of senior managers said  sales growth 
will quicken over the next year, up from 53 percent in the July
survey, while those who predicted slower gains fell to 26
percent from 29 percent, the bank said.  Investors predict a 12 percent chance the Bank of Canada
will raise its key lending rate a fourth straight time at its
next decision Oct. 19, according to a Credit Suisse Group AG
 calculation  derived from overnight index swaps. Governor  Mark Carney  said Sept. 30 “caution” is needed in deciding on
another rate increase, and that the bank will cut its economic
growth forecast later this month.  The survey suggests “the economic recovery is
progressing,” the bank said. “Firms remain positive about the
outlook over the next 12 months, but they generally expect
growth to be modest, owing in part to a weaker outlook for the
U.S. economy.”  More Investment  The previous report showed 38 percent of executives
predicting more investment and 26 percent predicting less. There
were three straight quarters, ending in mid-2009 when the
country was in recession, where more executives said they
planned less investment.  “Following a period of restraint in investment
expenditures, many firms reported plans to resume more normal
levels of spending, with an increasing focus on enhancing
productivity or expanding into new and more profitable business
lines,” the report said.  The percentage of executives who said they would have
“some” or “ significant ” trouble meeting an unexpected jump
in demand fell to 35 percent from 39 percent in the previous
survey. Last year, the balance fell to a record low 22 percent.  The survey found 27 percent of companies said credit
conditions had loosened and 11 percent said they were tighter.  About 85 percent of executives said  inflation  would advance
at an annual rate of between 1 percent and 3 percent over the
next two years, falling within the central bank’s target range.  A separate survey of lending officers suggested credit
conditions eased for a fourth straight quarter. The balance of
opinion on overall conditions was negative 22 percent, with
readings less than zero indicating conditions became looser.  The business outlook survey canvassed about 100 managers
from Aug. 16 to Sept. 16. The senior loan officer survey
gathered responses from “major Canadian financial
institutions” from Sept. 7 to Sept. 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net .
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  