-- Barcelona Targets Carlos Tevez as Messi Foil, Mail Says: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2010-10-08T05:58:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/barcelona-targets-carlos-tevez-as-messi-foil-mail-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Barca Targets Tevez  Barcelona is contemplating a January move for Manchester
City striker  Carlos Tevez , who the Spanish champion consider as
a potential foil for fellow Argentine  Lionel Messi , the Daily
Mail  reported .  Andoni Zubizarreta , Barcelona’s technical secretary, has
been tasked with identifying attacking targets for the January
transfer window and the Catalan club has been put on alert by
Tevez’s locker-room bust-up with City manager  Roberto Mancini 
last weekend, the newspaper added.  Torres Talks  Liverpool’s prospective new owners will seek talks with
World Cup-winning striker  Fernando Torres , captain  Steven Gerrard  and goalkeeper  Jose Reina  as soon as they take over to
brief the players of their plans, the Daily Mirror  reported .  John W. Henry ’s New England Sports Ventures will make
retaining the trio a top priority should its purchase of
Liverpool be completed and will give them reassurances that
investment in the squad will be made to meet their ambitions,
the newspaper added.  Managers Blamed  Fulham captain  Danny Murphy  said the rash of dangerous
tackles in the Premier League this season was the result of
managers sending out their players too pumped up, the
Independent reported.  Some players are going into tackles at a “ridiculous”
pace and there is “no logic or intelligence” in what they are
doing, the newspaper cited the midfielder as saying at the
“Leaders in Football” conference in London  “Your manager dictates how you behave,” Murphy said.
“You get managers who are sending their teams out to stop other
teams playing, which is happening more and more; the Stokes,
Blackburns, Wolves.”  De Jong Snub  Manchester City midfielder  Nigel de Jong  has been told he
can’t visit  Hatem Ben Arfa  in the hospital because he was
responsible for the Newcastle winger’s broken leg, the Daily
Mail  reported .  A City official was told that Ben Arfa, who is recovering
from surgery after his left leg was broken in two places on Oct.
3 by De Jong’s mistimed tackle, didn’t want any visitors from
the club, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Baynes  in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  