-- Blackstone May Gain 14 Columbia Sussex Hotels After Acquiring Junior Debt
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d   a n d   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r
-- 2010-10-08T21:10:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/blackstone-may-gain-14-columbia-sussex-hotels-after-acquiring-junior-debt.html
Blackstone Group LP  bought the junior
debt on 14 hotels owned by Columbia Sussex Corp. and may seize
the properties from the company, according to two people with
knowledge of the matter.  A $539 million mortgage on the real estate that comes due
this month was turned over to a firm specializing in troubled
commercial property loans due to imminent default, Fitch Ratings
said in June. Blackstone has purchased portions of mezzanine
debt tied to the mortgage that may allow it to take control of
the hotels as soon as this month, said the people, who asked not
to be identified because the talks are private.  Blackstone, which sold the properties to Columbia Sussex
five years ago, is building up its lodging business. The New
York-based firm was part of a group that this year won a
bankruptcy auction for hotel chain Extended Stay Inc., which it
sold in 2007 to a group led by  David Lichtenstein ’s Lightstone
Group LLC.  Blackstone, the world’s largest private equity firm, bought
the junior mezzanine portions of the Columbia Sussex debt from
Northstar Realty Finance Corp., Fortress Investment Group LLC,
 Bank of America Corp.  and hedge fund Fillmore Capital Partners
LLC, the people said. The debt is backed by hotels including 10
 Wyndham Worldwide Corp.  properties, according to Fitch.  Blackstone, which paid $1.4 billion in equity for the
former Wyndham International Inc. in 2005, sold half of the
Wyndham hotel portfolio to Crestview Hills, Kentucky-based
Columbia Sussex later that year for the same amount.  A Blackstone spokeswoman declined to comment, and
representatives for Columbia Sussex, Northstar, Fortress, Bank
of America and Fillmore didn’t immediately return calls seeking
comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sarah Mulholland  in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Keehner  in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 