-- BNP Paribas Fund to Buy Italy Solar Plants Seeking 15% Yield
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2010-10-08T11:37:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/bnp-paribas-fund-may-acquire-five-italian-solar-plants-seeking-15-return.html
BNP Paribas  Clean Energy Partners GP
may buy solar-energy plants in Italy for an estimated $555
million to help propel the U.K. investment fund toward its
targeted 15 percent annual return.  The first deals for three to five plants with a total of
100 megawatts of capacity are likely to close within weeks,
Chief Executive Officer  Joost Bergsma  said in an interview,
declining to give terms. The total cost to the London-based fund
will be about 400 million euros ($555 million), Bloomberg New
Energy Finance analyst  Francesco D’Avack  estimated.  While Germany is the world’s largest market for power
produced by solar panels, Italy is sunnier and needs more new
generation capacity, Bergsma said. Italy, which imported about
13 percent of its electricity last year, pays premium prices for
solar power.  “With solar investments, the top line is partly driven by
the level of irradiation” from the sun, Bergsma said from his
office in London. “The panels cost the same as in Germany. The
Italian power market is also attractive since they are still
importing electricity.”  Annual clean-energy sales will more than double over the
next decade to about $1 trillion as governments seek to reduce
greenhouse-gas emissions and as the cost of low-carbon power
falls, HSBC Plc analyst  Nick Robins  forecast last month. Europe
will remain the biggest market for renewable power and equipment
in 2020 with about 27 percent of global sales, HSBC said.  Italian Solar  Bergsma said he’s looking to add as much as 100 million
euros to the  BNP Paribas SA -sponsored investment pool of 250
million euros before a fund-raising period closes on Oct. 31.  The 100 megawatts of generating capacity to be acquired are
equivalent to one-sixth of Enel SpA’s Porto Tolle station, which
runs on fuel oil. Bergsma said he will finance as much as 80
percent of the cost with loans.  Italian lawmakers in July agreed to lower the subsidized
price for solar power by 20 percent to 25 percent, less than
analysts expected, boosting demand for new panels.  Solar-project developers may add at least 2,140 megawatts
in 2011 to give Italy an installed solar base of 4,600 megawatts
by year-end, D’Avack said. The surge in building may attract
developers that won’t remain as operators for decades, he added.  “The secondary market will become especially attractive
after next year’s rush, when small developers will start looking
for an exit,” D’Avack said in an e-mail.  Irish Wind  The fund, which bought a 20-megawatt wind farm in Ireland
in August, is also considering investments in wind energy in
Germany and France and French photovoltaic plants as well. It
will avoid the Spanish solar industry because the government has
threatened to reduce the subsidies earned by existing
photovoltaic plants, raising concern among investors that they
may struggle to service their project loans.  “I wouldn’t rule out re-engaging provided the regulatory
situation is clarified” in Spain, Bergsma said. “Although
there may be an additional risk premium because they have
threatened to make retroactive tariff cuts.”  Bergsma said he may seek larger funds in the next few years
that would put him in a position to invest in offshore wind
projects that require more capital.  The fund appeals to investors looking for an asset class
that fits between real estate funds that may generate returns of
about 10 percent and private equity funds that aim to generate
about 20 percent a year, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Sills  in Madrid at   bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net  