-- Boehringer Ends Female Desire Drug Development After FDA Query
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2010-10-08T07:55:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/boehringer-ends-female-desire-drug-development-after-fda-s-safety-query.html
     Oct. 8 (Bloomberg) -  Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH  abandoned
development of its female desire drug flibanserin after U.S.
regulators said the pill wasn’t proven to be safe and effective.  Boehringer is still convinced flibanserin would have helped
women, Chief Executive Officer  Andreas Barner  said in an e-
mailed statement today. “The decision was not made lightly,
considering the advanced stage of development,” he said.  Flibanserin  showed promise a year ago with late-stage test
results indicating women who took it wanted -- and had -- more
sex. Questions arose later about whether its effect was big
enough to outweigh potential side effects, including depression,
anxiety and fatigue. A U.S. Food and Drug Administration panel
voted unanimously in June against backing the drug after a
review.  The decision by Boehringer, based in the German town of
Ingelheim, is the latest in a series of failures by drugmakers
to influence women’s libidos.  Pfizer Inc.  abandoned efforts to
adapt Viagra for women in 2004, while  Procter & Gamble Co. 
failed to win regulators’ backing for a testosterone patch.  Libido drugs for women may create an annual market of at
least $2 billion,  BioSante Pharmaceuticals Inc.  has estimated.  Boehringer, the world’s biggest family-owned drugmaker, had
said flibanserin would drive growth as its prostate drug Flomax
and Parkinson’s therapy Mirapex lose patent protection.  The drugmaker said it will still complete the two most
advanced patient studies under way with flibanserin, while other
research resources will be reallocated to stroke prevention,
diabetes and oncology.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Naomi Kresge  in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net . 