-- Boeing, Airbus Face Labor Pressure as Unions Flex Muscle
-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2010-10-08T16:33:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/boeing-airbus-face-labor-pressure-as-unions-flex-global-muscle.html
Labor unions representing  Boeing Co. 
and  Airbus SAS  workers are trying to follow the planemakers
overseas and organize more employees as production shifts to
developing countries.  More than 100 union leaders from around the world met in
Seattle this week to map ways to help labor groups take root in
the emerging aerospace industry in nations such as China and
Mexico, and to keep tabs on unionized employers that are
expanding abroad.  “If the work is sent from the Puget Sound to Poland, we
need to be working with the Polish union to make sure
compensation is commensurate with the work they’re doing so
we’re not participating in the race to the bottom,” said  Greg Junemann , president of the  International Federation of
Professional and Technical Engineers .  The push to improve pay and job security outside of the
companies’ home markets puts the labor groups at odds with the
two biggest planemakers’ pursuit of cheaper markets in which to
build aircraft.  The two-day meeting that ended yesterday near Boeing’s
commercial headquarters marked the first global conference among
the aerospace union chiefs since 2002, when they convened in
Toulouse, France, where Airbus is based.  Air-Show Meetings  Machinists union President  Tom Buffenbarger , who attended
the Farnborough Air Show in July for the first time and met
Airbus Chief Executive Officer  Tom Enders , plans to hold union
sessions to coincide with the industry’s Paris and U.K. shows to
ensure workers are visible at the every-other-year gatherings.  “The big shift will be working more closely with the
Airbus unions, sharing best practices,” such as how to interact
with employers, Buffenbarger said in an interview. “We need to
take international solidarity to a new level.”  Unions’ global push is “not necessarily” a threat, Boeing
CEO  Jim McNerney  said yesterday after a speech at the meeting.  “We will partner with people that want to help us build
airplanes more productively,” he said. “In some cases unions
help us do that, and in other cases non-unions help us do
that.”  Aerospace employment is 460,000 in Europe and 624,000 in
the U.S., where the total has fallen 45 percent in the past 20
years as manufacturing efficiency rose and companies sent work
abroad. While data aren’t available for China, estimates of the
total there range from 200,000 to 491,000, said Owen Herrnstadt,
the Machinists’ director of trade and globalization.  U.S. and European aerospace workers earn about $30 an hour,
compared with about $5 in Mexico and an estimated 50 cents to $2
in China, Herrnstadt said.  Mexico, China  That’s encouraged companies such as  Textron Inc. ’s Cessna
Aircraft to move production abroad. Wichita, Kansas-based Cessna
is completing a fourth expansion in Chihuahua, Mexico, even as
it cuts another 700 jobs in its hometown.  Airbus began assembling A320 single-aisle jetliners in
Tianjin, China, last year. Workforces are also expanding in
China, Russia and Brazil as those countries begin to develop
their own commercial jets.  Independent unions aren’t as strong in developing
countries, so organizing workers there will be difficult for the
mostly European and North American leaders who assembled in
Seattle this week, said  Harley Shaiken , a University of
California at Berkeley professor who specializes in labor.  ‘New Strategy’  “It’s going to be tough, but not impossible,” Shaiken
said. “This is adapting the very soul of unionism to the 21st
century. It’s a global solidarity that unions are trying to
establish. It’s hardly idle talk; it’s really laying the basis
for a new strategy.”  Labor groups are already making moves toward each other. A
delegation from Airbus’s engineering union flew to Seattle in
July to meet with the Society of Professional Engineering
Employees in Aerospace for the first time, said  Ray Goforth , the
U.S. group’s executive director.  Airbus has an engineering base in Wichita, among other U.S.
facilities. Part of the unions’ plan includes more collaboration
to make sure the U.S. workers’ relationship with the company is
similar to that in Europe, where organized labor is stronger.  Boeing’s ties with unions at home have included strikes in
the Seattle area that forced five shutdowns of its commercial
operations since 1989. About 36 percent of its 157,000-person
workforce belongs to unions.  Dreamliner Delay  Outsourcing is among the sore points for labor groups, with
the Chicago-based planemaker’s engineering and machinists unions
blaming work sent overseas for the delays in the 787 Dreamliner,
now running almost three years behind schedule.  Suppliers from around the world are carrying out 70 percent
of the work done on the jet, up from 50 percent on the 777.
McNerney told union leaders yesterday that while Boeing ceded
too much control over the 787, the company will learn from its
mistakes and keep that approach on jets it’s about to develop.  He said planemakers also must continue to expand abroad,
because aircraft orders often require agreements for adding
overseas production or parts purchases.  That means labor groups must adapt their own global
strategy, said  Bernie Hamilton , the national officer for
aerospace for Unite, the U.K.’s largest union.  The trade-union movement, which started out as local groups
of workers and followed employers’ nation-wide expansion, has
“lacked that next step, to go global,” Hamilton said. “The
unions have to change with the times. We have to take it to the
next level, because the companies have.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susanna Ray  in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  