-- Bomb-Plot Jurors Find Phone Transcript Not in Evidence While Deliberating
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2010-10-08T21:51:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/bomb-plot-jurors-find-phone-transcript-not-in-evidence-while-deliberating.html
Jurors deliberating in the case of
four men accused of trying to bomb New York synagogues were sent
home for the weekend after finding a transcript of a recorded
phone conversation that hadn’t been accepted as evidence.  The jurors told U.S. District Judge  Colleen McMahon  in
individual interviews conducted in the courtroom that they were
looking at a transcript of a recording of another telephone
conversation when one of them found the three-page transcript,
which wasn’t in any of the other jurors’ binders.  The female juror who found the document said she read part
of the transcript and that it appeared to be from an audio
recording of a telephone call between one of the defendants,
David Williams, and his father.  At least two other jurors said they read part of the
transcript before the jury decided to send a note to McMahon.
The jurors are scheduled to resume deliberations in the trial on
Oct. 12, as the court is closed Oct. 11 for the U.S. Columbus
Day holiday. The trial began Aug. 23 in federal court in
Manhattan, and jurors got the case on Oct. 6.  The recording to which the transcript refers, which was
made while Williams was in jail following his arrest, is
“utterly, completely and totally inadmissible,” McMahon said
while jurors weren’t present. She asked prosecutors and defense
attorneys to submit written arguments over the weekend.  ‘Pretty Inexcusable Error’  “Someone has made a pretty inexcusable error, but we don’t
know how bad an error it is,” McMahon said.  Assistant U.S. Attorney David Raskin, the lead prosecutor
on the case, declined to comment on today’s proceedings.  Defense attorneys for three of the four defendants didn’t
immediately return messages from Bloomberg News. Sam Braverman,
an attorney representing defendant Laguerre Payen, declined to
comment following today’s proceedings.  The defendants, Williams, 29, James Cromitie, 44, Onta
Williams, 34, and Laguerre Payen, 29, all of Newburgh, New York,
are accused of planning to bomb a synagogue and a Jewish
community center in the Bronx and fire heat-seeking Stinger
missiles at military planes at Stewart International Airport.  The charges against the men include conspiracy and
attempted use of weapons of mass destruction in the U.S. They
face as long as life in prison if convicted.  The case is U.S. v. Cromitie, 09-cr-00558, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Dolmetsch  in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 