-- Bovespa Rises for Longest Weekly Rally in 11 Months; Real Gains
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 2010-10-08T20:23:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/bovespa-fluctuates-as-fed-stimulus-bets-offset-vale-decline.html
Brazilian  stocks  rose for the sixth
straight week, the longest streak in 11 months, on speculation
the Federal Reserve will buy more debt to stimulate U.S. growth
and China’s debt rating will rise, boosting the economic outlook
for Brazil’s two biggest trade partners.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA , Brazil’s state-controlled oil
company, rebounded from a 19-month low as crude rose and after
saying it won’t sell more shares.  Cielo SA  advanced after
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. recommended buying the stock.  Banco
Bradesco SA , Brazil’s second-biggest bank by market value, led a
rally of financial stocks, helping the benchmark measure rise
for the ninth time in 10 days.  The  Bovespa  stock index advanced 1.3 percent to 70,808.80.
Forty-nine stocks rose on the index while 17 declined. The
measure has risen 0.8 percent since Oct. 1 and posted the sixth
straight weekly gain for the first time since December 2009. The
real gained 0.8 percent to 1.6678 per dollar.  “Brazil has positive momentum,” Bank of America Corp.
strategist  Pedro Martins Jr . wrote in a note to clients today.
The nation’s stocks are “trading inexpensively to global
equities, presidential elections have proven non-disruptive so
far, the overhang of jumbo equity offerings has passed and there
is strong earnings momentum.”  U.S. Jobs  Copper, a bellwether for global growth, rose after a
larger-than-forecast cut in U.S. jobs spurred speculation that
the Federal Reserve may use so-called quantitative easing to
fuel growth. Employers cut staffing by 95,000 workers in
September, Labor Department figures showed today. The median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a
5,000 drop.  China joined emerging markets from Turkey to Colombia whose
debt ratings may rise, a trend that may make it cheaper for them
to borrow while escalating pressures for their currencies to
appreciate.  China may be upgraded within three months from the fifth-
highest ranking of A1, Moody’s Investors Service said in an e-
mail today, citing the nation’s economic strength and ability to
contain losses from unprecedented lending.  Additional Taxes  Brazil’s Monetary Council closed a loophole on capital
inflows to prevent foreigners from circumventing the recently
increased tax on investment in fixed-income securities and
funds. The new rules require foreign investors who purchase
stocks to pay additional taxes should they migrate to fixed-
income assets, according to a decision published yesterday by
the central bank.  The government increased the IOF tax foreign investors must
pay to purchase domestic fixed-income securities and invest in
funds, including equities funds, to 4 percent from 2 percent to
temper currency gains. The tax was kept at 2 percent for
investments in stocks and the futures market.  Petrobras gained 2.8 percent to 26 reais, rebounding from a
four-day rout that took to it to the lowest price since March
2009. The company doesn’t plan other stock sales after selling
$70 billion of shares last month, instead turning to the debt
markets to fund its investment plan, Chief Executive Officer
 Jose Sergio Gabrielli  told reporters yesterday in Rio de
Janeiro.  BlackRock Inc.’s holding of Petrobras preferred shares
dropped to 4.1 percent after the stock offering, according to a
filing from Petrobras yesterday. The New York-based asset
manager held 8.7 percent of the stock class across 17 funds
previously, not accounting for American depositary receipts,
according to  data compiled by Bloomberg .  Cielo Recommendation  Cielo rose 2.8 percent to 15.16 reais after Goldman Sachs
raised its rating to “buy” from “neutral,” citing the
company’s fourth-quarter sales outlook.  Redecard SA , Brazil’s
second-biggest card-payment processor, gained 2.8 percent to
25.97 reais.  Bradesco surged 2.3 percent to 35.62 reais as the MSCI
Brazil/Financials Index advanced 2.8 percent.  The  Bovespa  index trades for 10.4 times analysts’ 2011
earnings estimates, compared with 10.9 times for the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index of 21 developing nations’ stocks and 13.9
times for Mexico’s IPC index, according to weekly data compiled
by Bloomberg. The Bovespa trades at 15.6 times the reported
profits of its companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Cuadros  in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  