-- Brazil's Real Completes Weekly Drop on Rousseff Intervention Speculation
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2010-11-12T20:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/brazilian-real-falls-after-u-s-loses-more-jobs-than-forecast-in-september.html
Brazil’s real completed its biggest
weekly drop since June as investors speculated the government
may take additional measures to stem the currency’s rise.  The real fell 2.5 percent this week to 1.7222 per dollar at
3 p.m. New York time, from 1.6799 on Nov. 5. The currency fell
0.4 percent today.  President-elect  Dilma Rousseff  said the country will take
“all possible measures” to curb the real’s appreciation, which
is “not good for Brazil,” according to Folha de S. Paulo. The
currency has dropped 3 percent in the past month, the biggest
decline among 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “In general, the real is the underperformer, and that is a
reflection of the extent of the intervention relative to other
currencies,” said  Flavia Cattan-Naslausky , a currency
strategist at RBS Securities Inc. in Stamford, Connecticut.  President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  tripled a tax on
foreigners’ fixed-income purchases last month to 6 percent to
slow a two-year currency rally and rein in a record current-
account gap of $47 billion.  Doubled in Value  The currency has more than doubled in value since Lula took
office in January 2003. The real has strengthened 34 percent
versus the dollar since the start of 2009.  Lula’s Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  reiterated this week
the government may take further steps to slow the real’s
advance. “We are not going to permit the real to revalue
against the dollar to the point that it damages Brazil’s
exports,” he told reporters in Seoul where he was attending the
meeting of the Group of 20 nations.  Rousseff may remove  Henrique Meirelles  as central bank
president, O Estado de S. Paulo newspaper reported on Nov. 7,
without saying where it obtained the information. Valor
Economico reported on Nov. 9 she may keep Meirelles and Mantega
in their current posts.  “We’re in an interesting moment in the change of the
government, and the market is anxious on the composition of the
new economic team,” said Cattan-Naslausky in a phone interview.
“The market likes clarity, the market wants clarity.”  The yield on the Brazilian interest-rate futures contract
maturing in January 2012, the most traded today in Sao Paulo,
retreated five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 11.52
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Bain  in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  