-- Bulgarian Premier Borissov Survives Opposition No-Confidence Vote Motion
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2010-10-08T06:52:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/bulgaria-prime-minister-borissov-survives-no-confidence-vote-in-parliament.html
Bulgarian Prime Minister  Boiko Borissov’s  minority Cabinet survived its first no-confidence
vote in Parliament demanded by opposition parties for
mismanaging the health-care system.  Parliament rejected the motion today in a 144-70 vote, with
one abstention, of the 215 lawmakers present in the 240-seat
assembly. The vote was backed by the Bulgarian Socialist Party
and the ethnic-Turk Movement for Rights and Freedoms, which
ruled the country from 2005 to 2009.  The two parties accused the 14-month old Cabinet of failing
to provide needed funding and causing chaos in the medical
system. Borissov’s government has cut spending in effort to
control a widening  budget deficit  amid the deepest  recession  in
a decade.  Borissov appointed the Cabinet’s third health minister,
 Stefan Konstantinov , a day before the motion was introduced to
ensure the backing of his allies, the nationalist Attack party,
with 21 lawmakers, and the coalition of the Union of Democratic
Forces and Democrats for Strong Bulgaria, which has 14 seats.
The government controls 117 seats in the assembly falling short
of the 121 needed to pass a vote.  Konstantinov replaces  Anna-Maria Borissova , who came under
fire from doctors and politicians after the government failed to
make 125 million lev ($87 million) of payments to hospitals for
the second quarter. The government initially said the payment
would be delayed until March 2011 and then transferred half of
the amount on Oct. 1, when two opposition parties introduced the
no-confidence motion.  Hospitals were forced to cut doctors’ wages, prompting them
to seek employment abroad, non-emergency surgeries are being
postponed and hospital patients have to bring their own food and
medicines, said Dimitar Lenkov, chief secretary of the Bulgarian
Doctors Union.  Bulgaria set up a  National Health Insurance Fund  in 1999 to
put its Soviet-style medical system on a market footing. The
fund collects obligatory payments from all Bulgarians and covers
hospital costs.  Bulgaria has delayed by a decade plans to set up private
health-care funds and sell state-owned hospitals to complete the
overhaul.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Konstantinova  in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  