-- Burger King LBO Propels Fivefold Leveraged-Loan Gain in 2010
-- B y   R i c h a r d   B r a v o
-- 2010-10-08T14:38:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/burger-king-aspen-dental-loans-propel-fivefold-jump-in-lbo-debt-issuance.html
Loans raised for leveraged buyouts
jumped fivefold this year compared with the same period in 2009
as the takeovers of  Burger King Holdings Inc.  and Aspen Dental
Management Inc. by private-equity firms expanded issuance.  Burger King’s $1.85 billion institutional term loan was the
largest such transaction to back an LBO in 2010, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Aspen Dental’s $195 million term
loan financed its acquisition by Leonard Green & Partners LP.
Both loans started trading this week.  Funding for buyouts has become more available as liquidity
has increased in the U.S. leveraged-loan market. Almost $30
billion of U.S. leveraged-loans have been arranged this year
through yesterday to back buyouts, up from $6 billion in the
same period last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The loan market seems to be hitting on all cylinders,
given both the increased flow from new investors as well as more
CLOs being back in compliance,” said  Leland Hart , portfolio
manager at New York-based BlackRock Inc., which manages more
than $20 billion in leveraged-finance assets. “Last week you
had the notion of a $10 billion financing being bandied about
and that certainly feels as if it’s not outside the realm of
possibility today.”  So-called institutional loans are mainly bought by non-bank
lenders such as collateralized loan obligations, mutual funds
and hedge funds. CLOs pool high-yield, high-risk loans and slice
them into securities of varying risk and return.  Peak Return  The Standard & Poor’s/LSTA U.S.  Leveraged Loan 100 Index 
rose to 90.65 cents on the dollar yesterday, down from this
year’s high of 92.9 cents on April 26. High-yield, high-risk
debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and BBB-
by S&P.  The total return on the S&P/LSTA index, which tracks the
100 largest dollar-denominated first-lien leveraged loans,
reached 6.44 percent as of yesterday, the highest for the year.  The number of buyouts in the U.S. so far this year has
increased 38 percent to 3,423 from 2,473 during the same period
in 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sara Lee Corp. ’s stock rose the most in almost two years in
New York Stock Exchange trading Oct. 4, after the New York Post
said the Downers Grove, Illinois-based company rejected a $12
billion unsolicited takeover offer from KKR & Co.  $10 Billion Cap  “The LBO financing cap on size had been about $5 billion
until recently,” said  Randy Schwimmer , head of capital markets
at Churchill Financial LLC in New York. “Given the liquidity
now sloshing around at the upper end of the market thanks to all
the high-yield issuance, that number is pushing up to $10
billion.”  Burger King’s financing package to back its buyout by 3G
Capital included a $150 million revolving credit line and $800
million of eight-year notes.  The term loan, which was sold to investors at 99 cents on
the dollar, first changed hands at 100.625 cents, according to a
person familiar with the deal, who declined to be identified
because the trades are private.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Barclays Plc arranged the deal,
which has an interest rate of 4.5 percentage points more than
the London interbank offered rate and a 1.75 percent Libor
floor, the person said. Libor is the rate banks charge to lend
to each other.  Aspen Dental’s term loan was arranged by UBS AG and
Jefferies Group Inc. with an interest rate 6 percentage points
more than Libor, which has a 1.75 percent floor, according to
people familiar with the transaction who declined to be
identified because the terms are private.  ‘Not as Gloomy’  U.S. high-yield bond issuance rose to $208.9 billion this
year as of yesterday, Bloomberg data show, a 93 percent increase
from the same time period last year. More than $259 billion of
U.S. leveraged loans have been arranged this year, up from $99
billion during the same period in 2009.  “There is also a sense that the economy is climbing up
from the bottom and the risk of a double-dip has receded,”
Schwimmer said. “And while growth is hardly robust, the
prospects for quality consumer and commercial businesses are not
as gloomy as they were a few months ago.”  Applications for U.S.  unemployment benefits  dropped by
11,000 to 445,000 in the week ended Oct. 2, the fewest since
July 10, according to Labor Department figures. The  median
forecast  of 47 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected
455,000 new claims last week.  Employers cut staffing by 95,000 workers after a revised
57,000 decrease in August, Labor Department figures in
Washington showed today. The median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 5,000 drop. The
 unemployment rate  unexpectedly held at 9.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Bravo  in New York at 
 rbravo5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 