-- Buying Beats Renting as Foreclosures Cut Home Prices in Texas, California
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2010-10-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/buying-beats-renting-as-foreclosures-cut-home-prices-in-texas-california.html
The surge in Arizona foreclosures
allowed Chris Escobedo, a 31-year-old college counselor with a
wife and two children, to buy his first home -- one larger than
the house he had been leasing.  “We realized what kind of house we could get for the same
amount we were paying in rent,” Escobedo said in an interview.
Monthly costs including taxes and insurance for his new home, a
foreclosed property near Phoenix, total $1,014 -- just $14 more
than the rent on his old place, he said.  Cities in Texas, California, Florida and Arizona offered
the best deals for renters looking to buy in September as an
increase in foreclosures, a decline in home values and an
unemployment rate near a 26-year high kept prices down, San
Francisco-based real estate data company  Trulia Inc.  said today.  Arlington, Texas, topped the list of the cities in which
buying was a better value than renting, followed by Fresno,
California; Miami; Mesa, Arizona; and Phoenix. Trulia compared
the average rent on two-bedroom apartments and other rentals in
its database with total homeownership costs, including mortgage
payments, taxes and insurance, in the 50 largest U.S. cities.  Foreclosures are adding to a swelling U.S. housing supply
as an unemployment rate of 9.6 percent and the end of a federal
homebuyer tax credit dampen purchases. In August, home seizures
rose 25 percent from a year earlier to 95,364,  RealtyTrac Inc. 
said. Almost one-fourth of all U.S. home sales in the second
quarter involved properties in some stage of mortgage distress,
according to the Irvine, California-based data provider.  Defaults Boost Rents  Young renters who normally would have postponed buying are
finding homeownership most affordable in the cities with the
highest foreclosure rates, said Tara-Nicholle Nelson, a
spokeswoman for Trulia and real estate broker. Also, demand for
rentals by people whose homes were repossessed is boosting rents
in those cities, she said.  That’s the case in the Phoenix area, said Bill Wilkerson, a
broker with  ZipRealty Inc.  based in the city.  “If you’re looking to rent for $1,000 a month, for
example, there are about 2,500 properties available right now,”
Wilkerson said. “If you’re looking at buying, there are more
than 27,000 homes available with a similar mortgage payment.”  Florida, Arizona and California had the highest U.S.
foreclosure rates after Nevada in August. One in every 155
Florida houses received a foreclosure notice, 2 1/2 times the
national average, according to RealtyTrac. In Arizona, one in
165 homes got a filing, and in California one in 194 did.  New York, Seattle  New York topped Trulia’s list of cities in which renting
was more affordable than buying. It was followed by Seattle;
Fort Worth, Texas; Omaha, Nebraska; and Sacramento, California.
Workforce demand has helped prop up home prices in those cities,
making renting a relatively better deal, Trulia said.  Arizona’s foreclosure market gave Escobedo, who works for
 Apollo Group Inc. ’s University of Phoenix, the push he needed to
purchase a home last month. He and his wife Robyn were looking
for a four-bedroom house with a pool, a large yard, a short
commute to work and at least 2,300 square feet (214 square
meters) of space.  After a month of looking, they bought a foreclosed home in
Queen Creek, southeast of Phoenix, with everything they wanted
for $156,000. A 30-year mortgage with a 4.5 percent interest
rate helped make it even more affordable. Renting a similar
house probably would cost $1,400 a month -- and without the
income-tax benefit that comes with buying, Escobedo said.  “Interest rates and the write-off, as far as taxes are
concerned, were another plus,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Kucera  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  