-- Banking Lobby Opposes Cabinet's Resurrection of Postal Privatization Bill
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o
-- 2010-10-08T04:29:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/cabinet-plans-to-resurrects-legislation-to-privatize-japan-post-jimi-says.html
Japan’s  banking lobby  said it opposes
the country’s draft of a law to privatize the postal system and
lift a cap on the size of individual deposits at the postal bank,
arguing it could jeopardize fair competition in the industry.  Prime Minister Naoto Kan’s Cabinet today endorsed the
legislation, which was shelved earlier this year, aiming to sell
Japan Post Bank Co. and double deposits per person to 20 million
yen ($240,000). Japan Post is the world’s biggest deposit holder.  Financial Services Minister  Shozaburo Jimi  said the bill
will be resubmitted to parliament unaltered and if passed will
become effective on April 1, 2012. The postal bank would balloon
under the law as drafted, contrary to the purpose of postal
reform, which is meant to shrink it, the Japanese Bankers
Association said in a statement on its website today.  “It’s extremely regrettable for our banking industry,”
said the association headed by  Masayuki Oku , who is also
chairman of Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. “We strongly
desire that deeper deliberation be conducted for the draft.”  Jimi is a member of the People’s New Party, a junior
coalition member whose leader,  Shizuka Kamei , sponsored the bill.
Kamei resigned as financial services minister after parliament
failed to pass the law before the session ended in June.  The legislation was shelved in June as incoming Prime
Minister Kan declined to extend the parliamentary session. The
draft law also proposes the government retains a one-third stake
in parent company  Japan Post Holdings Co.   The banking group said the Cabinet failed to reflect the
group’s repeated pleas and called on the government to
reconsider whether the draft law is beneficial for the country.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shigeru Sato  at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
 Shingo Kawamoto  in Tokyo at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  