-- California Legislature Passes Main Budget Measure 3 Months Late
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2010-10-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/california-s-assembly-passes-budget-bill-moving-closer-to-ending-impasse.html
California  Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  signed into law a plan intended to spare the
world’s eighth-largest economy from having to issue IOUs for the
second year in a row.  The $87 billion budget closed a gap of about $19 billion.
Schwarzenegger, a Republican whose term ends in January, used
his veto authority to cut about $1 billion out of the plan
passed by lawmakers before he signed it late yesterday.  The budget passed 54-1 in the Assembly and 27-10 in the
Senate. It plugs the deficit by cutting spending and counts on
better-than-forecast tax collections and more money from the
federal government. The measure also limits some business tax
breaks, and commits to selling office buildings and borrowing
from existing accounts.  “Democrats and Republicans alike fought through all the
minefields in front of us and we got the job done,”
Schwarzenegger said in a press conference earlier yesterday in
Sacramento. “It is often said that politics is the art of
compromise, and let me tell you, that’s exactly what this budget
is, compromise.”  California requires a two-thirds vote to pass budgets in
both its  Assembly  and  Senate . Neither Republicans nor Democrats
hold enough seats to meet that threshold by themselves.  Short-Term Borrowing  The agreement came 100 days after the start of the fiscal
year, the longest period ever in which the state operated
without a budget. Had it persisted, Controller  John Chiang  said,
the state would have begun issuing IOUs this month. The budget’s
passage also frees Treasurer  Bill Lockyer  to begin issuing $10
billion in short-term notes to pay bills. The spending plan
covers the year that began July 1.  The budget deal may help the state avoid a “more severe
liquidity shortfall,” Standard & Poor’s yesterday. It won’t
affect California’s A- rating, the company’s seventh-highest, or
S&P’s negative outlook on the state’s general-obligation bonds,
the ratings company said in a report.  The budget was accompanied by about two dozen so-called
trailer bills needed to make it work. One defers $5 billion of
subsidies for schools and colleges. Without that step,
California wouldn’t have enough cash by the end of this month to
pay more than $8 billion of overdue bills accrued during the
impasse. Combined with a $5 billion bridge loan that Lockyer is
lining up from Wall Street banks, the deferrals will help the
state avoid issuing IOUs, aides to Chiang said.  ‘Economic Crisis’  “No, this is not the budget I wanted,” said Senate
President Pro Tem  Darrell Steinberg , a Democrat from Sacramento.
“But this is a budget that is a product of the most severe
economic crisis California has faced in many decades.”  The budget relies on $5.3 billion in federal funds for
welfare, education and prison costs, instead of the $3.4 billion
Schwarzenegger asked for in May. It also reduces the deficit by
$1.4 billion by using more optimistic tax-revenue forecasts from
the state Legislative Analyst’s Office.  The plan cuts spending by $7.5 billion, less than the $12
billion Schwarzenegger and fellow Republicans sought. It also
counts on $1.2 billion from the sale of some office buildings,
which the government would still use through leasing.  Another bill provides the state with $1.2 billion by
limiting business use of operating losses in one year to reduce
taxes owed in other years.  Rainy Day  Lawmakers also agreed to ask voters in 2012 to pass a
constitutional amendment for a  budget reserve , or so-called
rainy-day fund.  The state is the last in the U.S. to enact a spending plan
for this fiscal year. California’s constitution says lawmakers
must send a budget to the governor by June 15, about two weeks
before the fiscal year begins. The Legislature has met that
deadline five times in the past 30 years.  As the state began borrowing after last year’s budget was
approved, the increased supply widened the yield spreads on its
general-obligation bonds, said  Kelly Wine , senior underwriter
for Encino, California-based RH Investment Corp., which
specializes in the state’s debt.  The difference in yields between California’s $1.2 billion
of April 2038 tax-exempt bonds and comparable-maturity AAA debt
widened to 166 basis points on Dec. 31, 2009, from 37 basis
points on July 31, according to a  Bloomberg Valuation Index.  A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael B. Marois  in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
 Christopher Palmeri  in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  