-- Canadian Economy Cooling Raises Odds of Central Bank Interest-Rate Pause
-- B y   A l e x a n d r e   D e s l o n g c h a m p s
-- 2010-10-08T18:59:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/canadian-economy-cooling-raises-odds-of-central-bank-interest-rate-pause.html
Employment and housing figures
released today confirm that Canada’s economy is cooling faster
than the central bank had forecast, indicating the Bank of
Canada will refrain from raising interest rates until next year,
economists said.  Employment  in Canada unexpectedly fell by 6,600 jobs in
September, the second drop in the past nine months, Statistics
Canada said. The average monthly employment gain was 6,600 in
the third quarter, down from 75,530 in the April to June period.
 Housing starts  slowed to an annual pace of 186,400 units from
189,300 in August, Canada Mortgage and Housing Corp. said. In
the U.S., employers fired 95,000 workers in September, the Labor
Department said in Washington.  “We shifted down one gear,” said  Sebastien Lavoie , an
economist with Laurentian Banks Securities in Montreal who was
one of only two economists in a  Bloomberg survey  to estimate
Canada would not add jobs in September. Today’s data “only
solidify the increasingly popular view” that the central bank
won’t move at its Oct. 19 meeting.  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney , who has raised the
bank’s key lending rate three times this year to 1 percent, has
already signaled he’ll apply “caution” in the face of a “more
gradual” recovery in Canada and signs the U.S. Federal Reserve
may ease policy. The bank is likely to remain on hold until May,
said  Benoit Durocher , an economist with Mouvement Desjardins,
Quebec’s largest credit union, in Montreal.  “There’s no way to ignore the fact that growth in Canada
is slowing,” Durocher said. “The results for employment and
housing starts have confirmed that.”  Lower Outlook  Durocher estimates the economy grew at a 1 percent annual
pace in the third quarter, compared with Carney’s July
prediction of 2.8 percent. Durocher said he expects the central
bank to reduce its outlook considerably in its monetary policy
report on Oct. 20.  The yield on December 2010 bankers’ acceptances contract,
the most actively traded contract, fell 1 basis point to 1.30
percent at 1:29 p.m. in Toronto, the lowest since Sept. 8, when
the central bank last raised interest rates. The contracts have
settled an average of about 20 basis points above the central
bank’s overnight target since 1992, Bloomberg data show.  Canada’s  jobless rate  declined to 8 percent from 8.1
percent as 24,400 people stopped looking for work, Statistics
Canada said. Economists  forecast  job growth of 10,000 and an
unemployment rate of 8.1 percent, according to the median
estimates of 17 economists in Bloomberg surveys.  The U.S. lost more jobs than forecast in September, as
median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called
for a 5,000 drop in employment.  Dollar Strengthens  Canada’s dollar, which initially weakened after the
Canadian report, recouped losses following the U.S. release as
the data bolstered speculation the Federal Reserve will embark
on a renewed round of large-scale asset purchases to spur
growth. The Canadian dollar strengthened 0.5 percent to C$1.0125
per U.S. dollar, compared with C$1.0174 yesterday. One Canadian
dollar buys 98.77 U.S. cents.  Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  said in an interview with a
Calgary radio station today that “there is nothing today that
would indicate to me that we should look at another stimulus
package,” according to a transcript provided by his office.  “We will always make sure we’re watching this carefully
and we’re flexible if situations change,” Harper said in an
interview with CHQR radio.  Growth Effect  CMHC said  single-family starts  in cities fell 8.1 percent
to 63,600 units while urban multiple starts were unchanged at
99,600 units. The breakdown suggests the effect on  growth  will
be bigger than the overall number suggest, because single starts
usually contribute more to growth than multiples, said  Krishen Rangasamy , an economist with CIBC World Markets in Toronto.  “It’s hard for the Bank of Canada to raise rates in that
environment,” Rangasamy said, adding that rates will stay
unchanged until the second quarter of 2011. Growth should return
to a 2 percent pace by the middle of next year, which would
“give the Bank of Canada some justification in raising rates.
But even then, we don’t see rates going up quickly,” he said.  Rangasamy said he expects the unemployment rate to stay at
around 8 percent through next year.  Claude Guevin , chief financial officer of  Rona Inc .,
Canada’s biggest home-improvement retailer, said concern about
the economy means shoppers are “still extremely prudent.”  People “are very selective in their expenses in our sites
for the last four, five months,” Guevin said in a telephone
interview.  Bank Survey  The Bank of Canada also said today its quarterly poll of
executives found a record high gauge of investment plans and
optimism about future sales, as well as easier access to credit.
Some 46 percent of companies said they plan to increase
machinery and equipment investment over the next 12 months while
10 percent predicted less, the  Bank said , the widest gap since
executives were first asked the question in 1998.  While the numbers are encouraging, they should be
discounted because the survey was taken from Aug. 16 to Sept.
16, both Durocher and Rangasamy said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 