-- Canadian Dollar Strengthens After Reports Show Job Cuts in U.S. and Canada
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2010-10-08T20:15:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/canadian-dollar-drops-as-employers-unexpectedly-eliminated-jobs-last-month.html
Canada’s dollar rose against its U.S.
counterpart after a report showing U.S. employers cut more jobs
than forecast added to signals the Federal Reserve will buy more
debt in an effort to bolster the economy.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, headed for a sixth
straight weekly gain against the dollar and is up 4.8 percent
since Aug. 31, when it touched a two-month low. It fell earlier
as Canada’s employers unexpectedly eliminated jobs in September,
making it less likely that the central bank will increase
borrowing costs later this month.  “The Canadian dollar has rallied with other risk assets
against the U.S. dollar on expectations that quantitative easing
is around the corner after this morning’s very disappointing
U.S. jobs data,” said  Maria Jones , a currency trader in Toronto
at TD Securities Inc., a unit of Toronto-Dominion Bank.
“However the performance is muted against other currencies as
Canada’s data was weak, and though it’s structurally performing
better than the U.S., it’s starting to mirror the U.S. slow
growth.”  The Canadian currency strengthened 0.7 percent to C$1.0108
per U.S. dollar at 4:17 p.m. in Toronto, from C$1.0174
yesterday. One Canadian dollar buys 98.93 U.S. cents.  Stocks Rally  The Standard & Poor’s 500 index rose 0.6 percent and crude
oil for November delivery rose 1.4 percent to $82.84 a barrel on
the New York Mercantile Exchange. Crude oil is Canada’s largest
export and the loonie is highly correlated to oil and stock
prices.  Canada’s employers cut 6,600 jobs in September after an
increase of 35,800 in the previous month, Statistics Canada
reported today. The median forecast of 17 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey was for a gain of 10,000. The unemployment
rate dropped to 8 percent from 8.1 percent.  The Bank of Canada raised its policy interest rate by a
quarter-percentage point to 1 percent on Sept. 8, the third
increase this year. The Bank of Canada’s next rate announcement
is Oct. 19.  “This puts the final nail in the coffin for a rate
increase in October from the Bank of Canada,” said  Blake Jespersen , director of foreign exchange at Bank of Montreal in
Toronto.  Job Cuts  U.S. employers cut staffing by 95,000 workers after a
revised 57,000 decrease in August, Labor Department figures in
Washington showed today. The median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 5,000 drop. The
unemployment rate unexpectedly held at 9.6 percent.  Private U.S. payrolls that exclude government agencies
climbed 64,000, less than forecast, underscoring the concern
expressed by some Fed policy makers that the rebound from the
worst recession since the 1930s has been too slow and may
require easier monetary policy.  “The prospect of more moderate growth going forward
suggests that labor-market conditions will improve more slowly
in the months ahead and that the unemployment rate will only
gradually drift lower,”  George Davis , chief technical analyst
at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital Markets unit, wrote it a
note.  He said a move below C$1.0158 against the greenback would
signal strength in the loonie versus its U.S. counterpart.  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said last week in St.
Catharines, Ontario, he expects “modest” third-quarter
economic growth and that the unemployment rate is still too
high.  “You have an economy undergoing more incremental rates of
growth,” said  Stewart Hall , an economist at HSBC Holdings Plc
in Toronto. “The Bank of Canada going into its October rate
meeting has enough soft data to defend staying on the
sidelines.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  