-- McDonald’s Offers Taste of Obama Sausage-Making: Caroline Baum
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2010-10-08T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/mcdonald-s-gets-taste-of-obama-sausage-making-commentary-by-caroline-baum.html
“We have to pass the bill so that
you can find out what is in it.” -- House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi ,
March 9, 2010.  She wasn’t kidding. The public got to peek under the hood
last week when the Wall Street Journal  reported  that McDonald’s
Corp. wanted out: out of a requirement in the new health-care
law that compels employers to spend 80 to 85 percent of premiums
on medical benefits.  Who knew?  For McDonald’s mini-med health-care plan, a low-cost,
limited plan covering about 30,000 hourly fast-food workers, the
minimum medical loss ratio was economically unfeasible. The
company asked for a waiver, according to memos provided to the
Journal.  It turns out lots of other companies are seeking waivers
for limited benefit plans -- along with some states, like Maine,
with a small number of insurers, according to  Joseph Antos , a
health-care scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, a
conservative think tank.  Another group is lining up to apply for exclusions from the
minimum annual cap on benefits that is part of the law. No
wonder the Department of Health and Human Services had to put
out a  memo  on waiver guidance. The subject line alone is
intimidating:  “OCIIO Sub-Regulatory Guidance (OCIIO 2010-1): Process for
Obtaining Waivers of the Annual Limit Requirements of PHS Act
Section 2711”  Shell Game  The explanation of the purpose, background and process for
filing a waiver isn’t much better. The gist of it is this:  -- the Secretary of HHS is authorized to determine the
minimum coverage limits;  -- the Secretary of HHS is authorized to waive those limits
if compliance with them “would result in a significant decrease
in access to benefits or a significant increase in premiums,”
according to the memo.  The state insurance commissioners can give the secretary
advice, Antos says, but she doesn’t have to take it.  That pretty much describes the operating premise for the
legislation that changes health care as we know it.  “The law they passed is a shell of a law,” says  Michael Cannon , director of health-policy studies at the libertarian
Cato Institute in Washington. “Most of the rules have yet to be
written.”  Who knew?  “If you like your health-care plan, you can keep your
health-care plan.” -- President  Barack Obama , Aug. 11, 2009,
Aug. 12, 2009, Aug. 13, 2009, etc., etc., etc.  That pledge “should have come with a disclaimer: Offer not
valid for low-income workers,” Cannon writes in a recent  blog
post .  The offer is also subject to the discretion of the HHS
secretary.  Discretion may be the better part of valor, but it’s not
something businesses can rely on for planning purposes.
Corporations are already hunkered down because of (take your
pick) weak  demand , hurt feelings as a result of presidential
persecution, or uncertainty over future health-care costs and
tax rates. It won’t help  business confidence  to learn the HHS
secretary can make and break rules on a case-by-case basis.  “The secretary can decide what you have to purchase, but
if you are in a presidential swing state, the secretary has the
authority to undo everything she just did,” Cannon says.  Cabinet secretaries are political appointees. Policy has
become increasingly politicized. The role of the executive
branch is not to make or interpret laws.  “I will not sign health-insurance reform that adds even
one dime to our  deficit  over the next decade.” -- President
Obama  Who knew that adding 30 million people to the health-care
rolls would bend the cost curve -- in the wrong direction?  Anyone with a basic knowledge of economics. The law of
supply and demand teaches us that when consumers want to buy
more (health care, for example) at any given price than they did
before, the  demand curve  shifts out, to the right, representing
a higher equilibrium price and higher quantity demanded.  At the same time, providers are responding to the
government’s increased intrusion by running the other way,
refusing to accept new  Medicare patients  as the government cuts
reimbursements.  Everywhere you turn there’s a story about insurance
premiums rising and employers shifting more of the cost onto
employees. A new  study  by human-resources consultants Hewitt
Associates LLC projects an average premium increase of 8.8
percent in 2011, the biggest in five years.  Government of Laws  Costs associated with ObamaCare are just one of the
reasons, according to Hewitt. (The others are rising medical
claims costs and an aging population.) And it shouldn’t come as
a surprise that, confronted with a big unknown, companies hope
for the best outcome and price for the worst.  “...to the end it may be a government of laws and not of
men.”  -- John Adams, Samuel Adams and James Bowdoin,  Constitution 
of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, 1780  The McDonald’s kerfuffle shined a light on the health-care
legislation. With many of the rules to be written and many of
the provisions to be phased in between now and 2014, the public
got to see how the sausage was made and who gets to make it.  And once again, the Obama administration found itself on
the defensive, with HHS Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  claiming the
Journal story about McDonald’s dropping its mini-med coverage
was “flat out wrong.”  “We can’t waive a regulation that doesn’t even exist,”
Sebelius said.  Who knew? Well, pretty much anybody who was paying
attention.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Caroline Baum  in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  