-- Chevron Targets China, Thailand, Singapore as Markets for Australian LNG
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2010-10-08T01:42:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/chevron-targets-china-thailand-singapore-as-lng-destinations.html
Chevron Corp. , operator of the A$43
billion ($42 billion) Gorgon liquefied natural gas project off
northwest Australia, said China, India, Thailand, Taiwan and
Singapore are targets for future sales of the fuel.  With initial customers in place for Gorgon and the proposed
Wheatstone venture, Chevron can “now look to growing markets
for remaining volumes as well as expansion,” the company said
in a publication on its Australian website.  Chevron , the second-largest U.S. oil company, is among
energy producers proceeding with Australian LNG projects as
Asian nations demand cleaner-burning fuel to curb emissions.
Chevron directors and executives visited sites in Australia
in recent days, including Gorgon on Barrow Island, to view the
“progress the company is making on its increasing
investments in Australia,” the  Frontier Magazine  said.  Chevron has agreements to supply LNG to buyers in Japan
and South Korea, including Tokyo Electric Power Co., Tokyo Gas
Co., Osaka Gas Co., Korea Gas Corp. and GS Caltex Corp.  Chevron may supply China National Petroleum Corp. with
Wheatstone LNG as part of a preliminary agreement, the company
said Sept. 16. The San Ramon, California-based oil and gas
producer aims to make an investment decision to proceed with
Wheatstone in the second half of 2011, with first fuel shipments
due in 2016, the online magazine reported, citing project
manager Geoff Strong.  The company announced its ninth gas discovery off
Australia in 12 months in August and said last month that it has
found enough gas to support an expansion of Gorgon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Paton  in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  