-- Chilean Inflation Quickens, Bolstering Interest Rate Increase Expectations
-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 2010-10-08T19:39:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/chilean-consumer-prices-rose-0-4-in-september-annual-rate-falls-to-1-9-.html
Chilean monthly  inflation  quickened
as the  cost  of food and beverages rose the most in at least 20
months, cementing expectations that policy makers next week will
raise interest rates for a fifth straight month.  Consumer prices rose 0.4 percent in September from a month
earlier, the National Statistics Institute said today, compared
to a 0.1 percent decline in August. The rise matched the median
 forecast  of 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Food and
beverage prices rose 1.4 percent last month.  Annual inflation will accelerate in coming months as the
economy continues to expand, ending 2010 above the central
bank’s target rate of 3 percent, said  Alfredo Coutino , director
of Latin America at Moody’s Analytics.  “The central bank will continue to normalize monetary
conditions,” Coutino said in a note e-mailed to investors.
“The strong domestic demand fueled by expansionary fiscal and
monetary policies is also pushing some consumer prices up, after
the disinflation of last year.”  Consumer prices  rose 1.9 percent in September from the same
month a year earlier, down from 2.6 percent in August, today’s
report showed. The median forecast of 13 economists  surveyed by
Bloomberg  was for a 2 percent climb.  A surge in inflation last September, when prices rose 1
percent, set a high statistical base of comparison for last
month’s reading, Coutino noted.  Transitory Factors  Core consumer prices, which exclude fuel and fresh fruits
and vegetables, increased 0.4 percent in September from the
previous month, the institute said.  Transport costs increased 0.7 percent in September as the
cost of clothing and communications shrank 0.2 percent and 0.3
percent respectively.  Policy makers at the central bank have been surprised by
low consumer prices, the central bank said in the minutes of the
September monetary policy meeting.  Some policy makers said the unexpected pace of consumer
price changes reflects transitory factors and one board member
said annual inflation will continue to rise to the higher end of
the bank’s target range of 2 percent to 4 percent before
leveling off at 3 percent, the minutes said.  Push, Pull  The peso’s appreciation -- the currency reached a 27-month
high against the dollar on Oct. 1 -- has had an effect on
inflation in Chile, central bank President  Jose De Gregorio  said
Oct. 6 in an address before Congress.  A stronger peso reduces the prices of imports, which grew
44 percent in September from the previous year to $4.7 billion,
according to central bank data.  The peso rose 0.3 percent to 482.08 per U.S. dollar today
from 483.45 yesterday. The peso is up 11.5 percent against the
dollar in the last three months, the biggest gain among seven
Latin American currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “If the appreciation proves more persistent, it would
reduce some pressure on interest rates,” De Gregorio said in a
Sept. 12 interview after the peso closed at 496.95 per dollar.
“There are other developments -- the strength of the economy --
pushing us in the other direction. The closure of the output gap
has been much faster than expected.”  ‘Pressures Contained’  The output gap is the difference between actual and
potential production in the economy. Inflationary pressures
increase as the gap narrows.  “Near term, the peso’s strength will likely keep tradable
price pressures contained, but the lift from the output gap will
ultimately prevail,”  Florencia Vazquez , an economist with BNP
Paribas, said in note e-mailed to investors today.  The central bank has increased rates by a half-point in its
last  four monthly meetings . At 2.5 percent, Chile’s lending
costs still are the lowest among major Latin American economies.  Policy makers probably will raise rates by a half-point at
next week’s meeting before possibly reducing the pace of
increases in the last two months of the year, Coutino said in a
telephone interview from West Chester, Pennsylvania today.  “However, the probability of tightening at the same pace is
higher, so it could be 50 basis points in October and
November,” he said.  ‘Motor’  The peso’s appreciation reflects investors’ confidence in
the Chilean economy, Finance Minister  Felipe Larrain  told
reporters Oct. 1.  South America’s fifth-biggest economy grew 7.6 percent in
August from the previous year, the fastest pace in more than
five years.  The economy may grow more than 7 percent in the third
quarter from the same period a year earlier after year-on-year
growth of 6.5 percent in the three months through June, Larrain
said in an Oct. 5 address to Congress.  “Internal demand is expected to be the motor for growth
for the rest of the year, leading to greater exports in 2011,”
the ministry said in a report distributed to lawmakers the day
of the speech. The economy will expand 5.1 percent this year and
6.1 percent in 2011, Larrain told Congress.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Randy Woods  in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  