-- Chile Not Planning Capital Controls For Region-Beating Peso, Larrain Says
-- B y   I u r i   D a n t a s   a n d   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 2010-10-08T23:50:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/chile-not-planning-capital-controls-for-region-beating-peso-larrain-says.html
Chile has no plans to implement
capital controls to curb gains by the peso, which has
strengthened more than any Latin American currency in the past
three months, Finance Minister  Felipe Larrain  said.  Larrain, in an interview, said Chile has had “mixed”
results when in the 1990s it used capital controls to stem the
appreciation of the peso. He said that curbing public spending
growth is “one of the best ways” to prevent the currency from
further strengthening against the dollar.  “Capital is very smart,” said Larrain, who is in
Washington to participate in the annual meeting of the
International Monetary Fund. “You can say this short-term
capital I don’t want, so they disguise it as long-term capital
and they are really playing with the interest rate
differential.”  Governments in Latin America are taking steps to curb
currency gains as policy makers at the IMF debate ways to
prevent a “currency war” to boost exports through weaker
exchange rates. Brazil on Oct. 4 doubled the tax on foreigners’
purchases of fixed-income assets to 4 percent to stamp out a
rally that pushed the real to a two-year high this week. Central
bankers in Colombia and Costa Rica last month initiated programs
to buy dollars to curb currency gains.  Chile’s peso, which has strengthened 11.5 percent against
the U.S. dollar in the past three months, is along with Brazil’s
real the currency with the strongest case for government action,
Bank of America said in a report today. The currency rose 0.3
percent today to 482.08 per U.S. dollar.  ‘Best We Can’  The government is “doing the best we can” to cope with
the peso’s gains, said Larrain. “We are not alone in this. The
dollar is weakening against the currencies of all emerging
markets.”  Steps the government has taken to ease pressure on the peso
include curbing the rate of public spending growth, Larrain said
today. The government is also resisting the urge to further tap
$12.5 billion in foreign-held reserves to rebuild from an 8.8-
magnitude earthquake in February that killed more than 500
people and may have caused $30 billion in damage, Larrain said
in a special session of Congress Oct. 6 to discuss the peso’s
gains.  “If someone has a clever idea I urge them to communicate
it,” Larrain said today when asked about strategies to ease the
currency’s gains. “We can always do more and we are thinking of
ways that are efficient.”  Central Bank Action  Central bank President  Jose De Gregorio , who also
participated in the special congressional session, said policy
makers have discussed the possibility of resuming dollar
purchases in the local currency market for the first time since
2008.  “There is a role for the government and a role for the
central bank,” Larrain said today.  Chile’s $164 billion economy grew 6.5 percent in the three
months through June from the same period of 2009 and could have
exceeded 7 percent growth in the third quarter, according to
Larrain.  The central bank probably will slow the pace of rate
increases next week to help prevent further appreciation of the
peso before deciding whether to intervene in the currency
market, Bank of America said in today’s report.  “We find the case for foreign exchange intervention
strongest in Brazil and Chile,” Latin American strategists
 David Beker  and  Alberto Boquin  said in the report.  Chile’s central bank is expected to increase its benchmark
 interest rate  50 basis points for a fifth straight meeting next
week, to 3 percent, according to six of 11 analysts in a
 Bloomberg survey . The remaining five analysts expect a smaller
25 basis point increase to 2.75 percent.  Larrain, 52, received his undergraduate degree in business
administration from Chile’s Catholic University and his
doctorate in economics from Harvard University. He has published
10 books, including “Macroeconomics in the Global Economy,”
co-authored by Columbia University economist  Jeffrey Sachs .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Iuri Dantas in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net ; or
 Randy Woods  in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  