-- Dow Tops 11,000, Treasuries Rise on Fed Easing Bets
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d
-- 2010-10-08T20:11:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/china-stocks-yuan-rise-on-holiday-sales-moody-s-review-copper-advances.html
Stocks rallied, sending the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  above 11,000 for the first time since before
the May 6 crash, while shorter-term Treasuries rose and the
dollar slipped as a decrease in U.S. jobs fueled speculation the
Federal Reserve will buy debt to stimulate the economy. Corn,
soybeans and wheat surged on concern that supply is dwindling.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.6 percent to
1,165.15 at 4 p.m. in New York, and the Dow jumped 57.9 points
to 11,006.48. The dollar slid as much as 0.8 percent to 81.73
yen, a 15-year low, and yields on two- and five-year Treasuries
sank to record lows. Corn, soybean and wheat surged by the
maximum permitted on the Chicago Board of Trade after the U.S.
Department of Agriculture reduced its supply estimates.  The Labor Department report that the nation lost 95,000
jobs last month was the latest evidence that the recovery from
the recession may be faltering. The data signals the Fed may buy
$1.2 trillion of Treasuries as a way to inject more cash into
the economy and spur growth,  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co., said in
a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .  “The economy is still not creating jobs and the Fed is
probably going to do quantitative easing,” said  Barton Biggs ,
managing partner of New York-based hedge fund Traxis Partners
LP, which oversees $1.4 billion. “It indicates that we’re still
in this soft patch, and in order to get out of that and minimize
the risk of a double dip, we need more fiscal and monetary
stimulus.”  19 Times Higher  Today’s rally brought the Dow to its highest closing level
since May 3 and the S&P to the highest since May 12. On May 6, a
20-minute rout briefly erased $862 billion from the value of
U.S. stocks after a futures trader’s routine attempt to hedge
losses spooked investors and market makers, according to a
report from regulators released Oct. 1. The Dow plunged as
much as 998.50 points on May 6 before ending the day with a loss
of 347.80 points, or 3.2 percent.  The number of jobs lost last month was 19 times the median
estimate of economists in a Bloomberg survey. It was led by a
decline in government payrolls that shows the damage being done
by rising budget deficits.  Private payrolls that exclude government agencies climbed
64,000, less than forecast, underscoring the concern expressed
by some Fed policy makers that the economic recovery may require
easier monetary policy. The  unemployment rate  held at 9.6
percent and has equaled or exceeded 9.5 percent for 14
consecutive months, the longest span of elevated joblessness
since monthly records began in 1948.  ‘Highly Disappointing’  “The data are highly disappointing in terms of both
overall levels and the compositional dynamics of job creation,”
 Mohamed A. El-Erian , chief executive at Pimco, wrote in an e-
mail to Bloomberg News. “They increase the probability of the
Fed implementing additional QE.”  The jobs data overshadowed higher-than-estimated profit at
Alcoa Inc., which became the first company in the 30-stock Dow
to post results for the third quarter. Third-quarter income at
S&P 500 companies grew 23 percent, according to the average
analyst estimate in a Bloomberg survey. The survey sees a 35
percent advance in earnings this year compared with 2009.  Alcoa , the largest U.S. aluminum producer, surged 5.7
percent after topping the average analyst earnings estimate by
67 percent and saying growth in Chinese demand will help boost
global use by 13 percent this year.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell less than 0.1 percent.
Barclays Plc, the U.K.’s third-biggest bank, dropped 2.2 percent
after Abu Dhabi’s  Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan  bought
protection against a loss in value of his entire 6.3 percent
stake in a deal with Nomura Holdings Inc.  Dollar Slump  The U.S. dollar headed for a fourth weekly decline against
the euro in the longest stretch of losses since December 2008 as
investors speculated the Fed will debase the currency by
stepping up purchases of government debt. The yen and Swiss
franc rose today versus major counterparts as investors sought
easily traded alternatives to the dollar.  The Dollar Index, which measures the U.S. currency against
the euro, yen, pound, Canadian dollar, Swedish krona and Swiss
franc, slipped 0.2 percent to 77.264. It slumped to 76.906
yesterday, the lowest level since January.  Record-Low Yields  Treasury two- and five-year note yields slid to record lows
of 0.3351 percent and 1.0686 percent, respectively. Ten-year
note yields were little changed at 2.38 percent, near the lowest
level since January 2009. The  difference  between the yields on
10-year notes and 30-year bonds reached 1.36 percentage points,
the highest level since Bloomberg began keeping the data in
1992, as investors speculated the Fed would focus its purchases
on shorter-term Treasury securities.  The cost to protect against a default by China slid to a
two-year low as Moody’s Investors Service said it was poised to
upgrade the country’s debt. Credit-default swaps insuring
China’s bonds fell 4 basis points to 55.5, the lowest level
since Sept. 4, 2008, according to data provider CMA. The
 Shanghai Composite Index  rose 3.1 percent as trading resumed
after a five-day holiday.  The gains in China underscored the split in economic growth
between emerging markets and developed economies as Group of
Seven finance ministers met in Washington and governments from
South Korea to Brazil took steps to control appreciating
currencies. Emerging-market equity funds received net inflows of
more than $6 billion in the week to Oct. 6, the most since late
2007, EPFR Global said in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Tug of War’  “There’s a tug of war in the markets between good factors
and bad factors,” said  Kenji Sekiguchi , general manager of
strategic research and investment at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset
Management Co., which oversees about $75 billion in Tokyo.  Grain and oilseed prices rose the most allowed by the
Chicago Board of Trade after the U.S. government said domestic
and world supplies of corn, soybeans and wheat will be smaller
than forecast last month.  The U.S. Department of Agriculture cut its domestic corn-
crop estimate for the second time in as many months, predicting
a 3.4 percent drop from last year. While farmers will collect
the most soybeans ever, the total will be 2.2 percent less than
forecast in September, the USDA said. Global wheat inventories
will be 1.8 percent less than projected last month.  Grains Rally  Corn futures for December delivery rose the 30-cent trading
limit, or 6 percent, to $5.2825 a bushel on the Chicago Board of
Trade. The price reached a two-year high of $5.2875 on Sept. 27.
Soybean futures for November delivery soared the 70-cent limit,
or 6.6 percent, to $11.35 a bushel in Chicago. Wheat futures for
December delivery jumped the 60-cent maximum, or 9.1 percent, to
$7.1925 a bushel.  Reduced supplies of corn may increase expenses for meat
companies. Shares of  Tyson Foods Inc. , the largest chicken
processor, dropped 7.7 percent and  Smithfield Foods Inc. , the
biggest pork producer, fell 6.7 percent.  Before today, corn prices surged 33 percent si nce the end
of June a s unfavorable weather dimmed prospects for crops in the
U.S., the world’s largest grower and exporter. Soybeans were up
18 percent over the same period, and wheat had gained 42 percent
the past year after drought ruined fields in Russia and too much
rain diminished supplies from Canada.  Crude oil for November delivery rose 1.2 percent to $82.66
a barrel in New York. Gold futures for December delivery climbed
0.8 percent to $1,345.30 an ounce.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Stephen Kirkland  in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 