-- China Pressured on Human Rights to Currency Policies as Global Role Mounts
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2010-10-09T07:19:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/china-pressured-on-dissidents-to-currency-as-global-role-mounts.html
China was subjected to an onslaught
of international criticism on policies ranging from human rights
to currency reform as it was pressed this week to live up to its
burgeoning superpower status and show greater social and
financial responsibility.  The awarding of the  Nobel Peace Prize  to political prisoner
 Liu Xiaobo  was the most high-profile rebuke as President  Barack Obama  yesterday acknowledged the Chinese dissident’s plight by
demanding his immediate release. Meantime, finance chiefs from
Canada to Europe urged the country to allow faster gains in the
yuan. It also drew U.S. barbs for its record on global warming.  The criticisms were rejected by Chinese leaders intent on
making their own way in the world as they oversee their nation’s
transformation from Communist isolation to the globe’s second
largest economy and biggest consumer for automobiles and copper.
The result may be even greater tension and remonstrations as
next month’s Group of 20 summit in Seoul.  “The bottom line is China is growing up faster than it
wants to,” said  Charles Freeman , a fellow at the Center for
Strategic and International Studies in Washington and a former
U.S. trade official with responsibility for China. “The rest of
the world wants to treat it as a significant power, but China
doesn’t want that and prefers to focus on its domestic
development.”  Liu’s Struggle  Liu, 54, was made a Nobel laureate for his struggle to
promote human rights and democracy. While Obama said China has
made “dramatic progress” economically, he lamented “political
reform has not kept pace.” China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs
released a statement yesterday that the award violates the
prize’s purpose and will harm relations with Norway, home to the
Nobel Committee.  Liu, a writer, was sentenced to 11 years in prison last
December on a charge of plotting to subvert the ruling Communist
Party. He had been in custody since December 2008 for his role
in organizing  Charter 08,  an open letter calling for direct
elections and the freedom of assembly. More than 300 Chinese
academics, lawyers and activists signed the letter.  Elsewhere in Washington, finance ministers used the annual
meeting of the  International Monetary Fund  in Washington to
intensify pressure on China to let its currency appreciate more.
While the yuan yesterday rose to its highest level against the
dollar since 1993, it has risen only about 2 percent since China
pledged in June to make it more flexible.  ‘Currency War’  That has played a part in a recent outbreak of speculation
that the world is embarking upon a “currency war” as nations
are accused of pursuing cheap currencies as a way of driving
economic growth through exports. China last year overtook
Germany as the world’s largest exporter.  The yuan is “more than undervalued,” said Luxembourg
Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who oversees a panel of
euro-area finance ministers. Canada’s Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said it is not in China’s “interest to have currency
wars” and warned the risk of protectionism posed a threat to
already weak global growth.  Distorted Trade  Without naming China, U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said efforts to rebalance distorted global trade were
also being undermined partly by “foreign exchange intervention
as countries with undervalued currencies lean against
appreciation.” Geithner has linked China’s quest to gain more
voice at the IMF with its reluctance to give ground on exchange
rate issues.  People’s Bank of China Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said
yesterday in Washington that his country has done enough to
deserve more say at the IMF, rejecting calls for Beijing to take
greater responsibilities in the global economy.  China faces U.S. legislation aimed at prodding it to raise
the value of the yuan. Senator  Jack Reed , a Democrat from Rhode
Island, yesterday told Bloomberg Television’s “Political
Capital with  Al Hunt ” that the U.S. Senate may consider
legislative action in a lame-duck session.  China Resists  Zhou resisted the calls, saying his country aims to avoid
any “shock therapy” in its currency reform and that its policy
is based on “gradual” change. “China’s exchange-rate policy
is based on the market supply and demand relation to move
gradually to the equilibrium point,” Zhou said in Washington
yesterday during a panel hosted by the British Broadcasting Corp.  Beijing also faced barbs from the chief U.S. climate
negotiator.  China’s leaders have acted as though a climate change pact
“never happened,”  Todd Stern , U.S. special envoy for climate
change, said in a speech yesterday at the University of Michigan
Law School at Ann Arbor. China in December agreed to the
Copenhagen Accord, a non-binding pact that aims to limit
emissions blamed for global warming.  “That is a step up in rhetoric” from the U.S.,  Annie Petsonk , international counsel for the  New York-based
Environmental Defense Fund,  said in an interview from Tianjin
where she is attending the climate talks. “It comes at a
strange time because it’s likely to trigger a step up in
rhetoric from the other side.”  Talks Stall  Talks to control global warming stalled this week in
Tianjin, in northern China, among negotiators from about 175
governments. China and other developing markets have accused
industrialized nations of failing to honor their commitments to
curb greenhouse gases.  Huang Huikang, China’s special representative for climate
change talks, told reporters yesterday that China’s aim is “not
to block discussions” and that developed countries have shown a
“lack of substantive progress.”  China has led the world out of last year’s recession with
an economy that’s now 90 times bigger than when leader  Deng Xiaoping  ditched hard-line Communist policies in favor of free-
market reforms in 1978. It is the second-biggest importer of
crude oil and Chinese companies including PetroChina Co. and
China Construction Bank Corp. are among the world’s biggest by
market capitalization.  “The Chinese are still reluctant to be global players,”
said  Kenneth Lieberthal , who was the top Asia expert at the
National Security Council under President  Bill Clinton  and is
now a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution. “They are
essentially concerned with the development of their own economy,
maintaining stability domestically and protecting sovereignty
internationally. All are OK as goals, but major powers assume
more responsibility than that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Kennedy  in Washington at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  