-- China Will Avoid `Shock Therapy' in Currency Move, Zhou Says
-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 2010-10-08T19:30:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/china-rejects-shock-therapy-in-currency-reform-bank-governor-zhou-says.html
China’s central bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  resisted the calls from the U.S. and Europe for faster
appreciation of the yuan, saying his country aims to avoid any
“shock therapy” in its currency reform.  “China’s exchange-rate policy is based on the market
supply and demand relation to move gradually to the equilibrium
point,” said Zhou today in Washington during a panel hosted by
the British Broadcasting Corp. “We do that in a gradual way,
rather than a shock therapy.”  China has capped the yuan’s rise at about 2 percent since
relaxing a two-year dollar peg in June, fueling criticism that
Beijing keeps the currency artificially weak to gain export
advantage. Global finance chiefs at the  International Monetary
Fund  annual meeting are warning a race to weaker exchange rates
in countries from China, to Brazil and Japan risks hurting the
world economy.  Zhou, who spoke at a BBC event held in conjunction with the
IMF sessions, reiterated the country’s stance that it will
conduct the currency reform at its own pace. He added that China
monitors the balance and payment to decide the speed of the move
in the yuan.  “Gradualism is good for a large-sized economy,” Zhou
said. “Otherwise, there’s danger for the economy.”  The U.S. House of Representatives passed a measure last
month that would let American companies seek import duties to
prevent Chinese manufacturers from using the currency as a
competitive tool. The yuan’s appreciation since June has been
“not exactly what we would have hoped ourselves,” European
Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said this week.  Chinese Warning  China’s Premier  Wen Jiabao  warned European Union leaders
this week in Brussels not to team up with the U.S. to pressure
his government on the currency. Wen said a rapid currency
appreciation would create a wave of bankruptcy and social
upheaval in China.  Speaking of China’s monetary and fiscal policy, Zhou said
policy makers will conduct “very careful review” of the
economic stimulus package put in place during the global
financial crisis to avoid the potential threat of inflation and
“asset bubble.”  China’s manufacturing expanded at the fastest pace in four
months in September, while consumer prices jumped 3.5 percent in
August, the most in 22 months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ye Xie  in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  