-- China Credit-Rating Upgrade Looms as a `Double-Edged Sword'
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-08T09:20:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/china-credit-rating-upgrade-looms-as-double-edged-sword-with-yuan-rising.html
China joined emerging markets from
Turkey to Colombia whose debt ratings may rise, a trend that
might make it cheaper for them to borrow while escalating
pressures for their currencies to appreciate.  China may be upgraded within three months from the fifth-
highest ranking of A1, Moody’s Investors Service said in an e-
mail today, citing the nation’s economic strength and ability to
contain losses from unprecedented lending.  Asia’s role as leader of the world recovery has lured $2
billion of capital inflows daily since 2009, spurring record
gains in foreign-exchange reserves, according to DBS Group
Holdings Ltd. Intervention by nations including China to limit
currency gains is stoking trade tensions, with Brazilian Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega  warning last month of a “currency war.”  “The credit quality of emerging markets is now seen as
having substantially improved, this is really unprecedented,”
said  Frederic Neumann , co-head of Asian economic research at
HSBC Holdings Plc in Hong Kong. “That’s why we are seeing
tremendous capital inflows, making it a double-edged sword for
emerging markets.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index  closed 3.1 percent higher, the
biggest gain in four months. The yuan touched 6.6703, the
highest level against the dollar since 1993.  Yuan Implications  “Certainly this adds to the pressure on China to
accelerate the pace of renminbi appreciation,”  Prakash Sakpal ,
an economist at ING Groep NV, said in a phone interview from
Singapore, referring to the Moody’s decision. “An upgrade would
reflect China’s strong economic growth outlook, which is another
way of saying you need a stronger currency.”  Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s government has limited gains in the
yuan to less than 2.5 percent against the dollar since allowing
greater flexibility in the currency in June. Authorities had
kept it pegged about 6.83 for almost two years.  China’s resilience after the global financial crisis, and
expectations of strong growth over the medium term are key
reasons for the review, Moody’s said.  Credit-Default Swaps  The cost of insuring against losses on Chinese government
debt fell to the lowest in more than two years in the credit-
default swaps market. Contracts dropped 4 basis points to 55.5,
according to data provider CMA, the lowest since Sept. 4, 2008.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Moody’s also cited what it termed an effective stimulus
program, which is now being unwound, the central government’s
credit fundamentals, and the likely containment of losses from
record lending. China’s  growth accelerated  to as fast as 11.9
percent in the first quarter of this year after an unprecedented
$1.4 trillion of lending in 2009.  Moody’s on Oct. 5 raised the outlook on Turkey’s rating for
local and foreign-currency debt to positive from stable.
Colombia may be raised to investment grade next year, and the
rankings of Bolivia, Paraguay, and Uruguay may also increase,
 Gabriel Torres , an analyst at Moody’s Investors Service in New
York, said yesterday.  ‘Explosive Path’  By contrast, public debt in some of the world’s largest
economies is on an “explosive path,” Standard & Poor’s said in
a report today.  In Europe, mounting fiscal problems forced Greece to seek a
European Union-led bailout in May, while Irish and Portuguese
borrowing costs have soared on concern that they may also need
aid.  The International Monetary Fund has estimated China’s ratio
of debt to gross domestic product will be 20 percent this year,
compared with 133 percent for Greece and 93 percent for the
United States. The number for China excludes local-government
liabilities.  Currency Reserves  China’s outstanding government debt, including local-
government borrowing, was 6.34 trillion yuan ($950 billion) as
of the end of August, according to Chinabond, a clearing house.
The nation’s foreign-currency reserves stand at $2.45 trillion.  China’s largest banks weren’t materially damaged by the
global crisis and aren’t likely to pose any “sizable contingent
liability risk to the government’s balance sheet,” Moody’s said
today. Future credit losses will be mostly absorbed “by the
banks themselves, either from capital, or from future
earnings,” the ratings company said.  Other analysts have signaled greater concern. Fitch Ratings
said Sept. 17 China could face a “hangover” from stimulus
efforts in 2009, including strong credit growth, “which could
still see the emergence of problems requiring sovereign support
to clear up, for example in the banking system.”  -- Paul Panckhurst ,  Sophie Leung . With assistance from  Michael Shanahan  in London,  Kevin Hamlin  in Beijing,  Judy Chen  in
Shanghai,  Katrina Nicholas  in Singapore,  Eliana Raszewski  in
Buenos Aires and  Andrea Jaramillo  in Bogota. Editors:  Paul Panckhurst ,  Chris Anstey   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sophie Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  