-- China Kills Summit Briefing Over Entry of Some Reporters, EU Official Says
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2010-10-08T12:49:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/china-kills-summit-briefing-over-entry-of-some-reporters-eu-official-says.html
China cancelled a press conference
following this week’s summit with the European Union after EU
officials rejected the country’s demand to bar some Chinese
journalists, an EU official said.  The decision to cancel the Oct. 6 briefing was taken by
Chinese authorities for diplomatic reasons, the EU official told
reporters today on condition of anonymity. The EU tried
unsuccessfully to persuade the Chinese to go ahead with the
briefing including all accredited journalists.  Time constraints were given as the reason the press
conference was scrapped following a Brussels meeting that
included Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  and EU President  Herman Van Rompuy . The two sides later issued an 11-paragraph statement.  Wang Xining, spokesman for China’s mission to the EU in
Brussels, denied that Chinese officials were responsible for the
cancellation. “There was no time to have the press conference,”
he said by telephone today. “We both agreed it was too late to
have that.”  Four accredited Chinese journalists initially were barred
from the planned press conference, according to Lixin Yang, a
Brussels-based journalist for New York-based  Epoch Times , who
was among those due to be kept out. “They just said it was
security,” he said today.  The other three were Wen Luo and Xinhua Sun, both with New
York-based  NTDTV , and Xiaoyan Song, from  Sound of Hope , Yang
said.  Chinese Government  Before the summit, China’s Wen criticized the EU for
joining with the U.S. to pressure the Chinese government for a
more rapid appreciation of the yuan, telling a business
conference in Brussels that China will stick to its policy of
gradually increasing the currency’s flexibility.  “Europe shouldn’t join the choir” calling for a higher
yuan, Wen said. “If the yuan isn’t stable, it will bring
disaster to China and the world.”  China’s currency policy wasn’t mentioned in the joint post-
summit statement, which called for “further concerted efforts”
toward “sound fiscal policies that would guarantee the
sustainability of public finances while being growth-friendly.”
Van Rompuy and European Commission President  Jose Barroso  issued
a separate statement saying they “highlighted the role of
appropriate exchange rates” in the summit meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Brunsden  in Brussels at 
 jbrundsen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 