-- China Yuan Climbs to Strongest Level Since 1993 After Dollar Slumps
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-08T07:32:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/china-stock-index-futures-rise-on-holiday-sales-gains-for-global-markets.html
China’s stocks rose the most in four
months after Moody’s Investors Service put the nation’s debt
rating on review for a possible upgrade, retail sales surged and
the yuan climbed to its strongest against the dollar since 1993.  PetroChina Co. and  China Shenhua Energy Co.  gained more
than 2 percent, leading a rally for energy and raw-materials
stocks, after Moody’s cited China’s growth outlook for a
possible upgrade and producers tracked gains in commodity prices
during the National Day holiday.  Kweichow Moutai Co. , a maker of
baijiu liquor, advanced the most in a month after Xinhua News
reported retail and catering sales jumped 19 percent during the
holiday. Air China Ltd. rose 4.5 percent as a stronger Chinese
currency will reduce the cost of financing U.S. debt.  “Funds will increasingly flow into emerging markets such
as China as growth remains resilient,” said  Daphne Roth , head
of Asian equity research at ABN Amro Private Banking, which
oversees about $14 billion in the region. “Expectations for a
gradual appreciation in the yuan will also attract inflows.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index , which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, surged 3.1 percent to 2,738.74 as of
the 3 p.m. close, the most since May 24.  The CSI 300 Index 
advanced 3.7 percent to 3,044.23. The yuan climbed 0.3 percent
to 6.6715 against the dollar and touched 6.6703, the strongest
level since the central bank unified official and market
exchange rates at the end of 1993.  Moody’s review of the A1 ranking, the fifth-highest, will
be completed within three months, the ratings company said in an
e-mailed statement today.  “The resilient performance of the Chinese economy
following the onset of the global financial crisis, and
expectations of continued strong growth over the medium term”
are the main reason for the review, Moody’s said.  Commodity Rally  A gauge of  energy companies  in the CSI 300 soared 7.8
percent, the most since November 2008. PetroChina, Asia’s
biggest company by market value, jumped 2.9 percent to 10.47
yuan. Shenhua, the nation’s largest coal producer, climbed 9.3
percent to 25.80 yuan.  “The winter consumption peak is coming, which will boost
demand,”  Wu Jie , a Shanghai-based analyst at Orient Securities
Ltd., said today.  Zijin Mining Co. and Jiangxi Copper Co. rose by the 10
percent daily limit as gold reached a record in Shanghai and the
price of copper advanced. Gold for December delivery on the
Shanghai Futures Exchange gained as much as 1.3 percent to
286.79 yuan a gram, a record. Copper for three-month delivery
advanced as much as 0.6 percent to $8,150.50 a metric ton on the
London Metal Exchange and headed for a 0.6 percent gain this
week, the fourth consecutive weekly advance.  Consumer Gains  China’s stock markets were closed from Oct. 1 until
yesterday for the National Day holiday. The  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index  tracking Hong Kong-traded Chinese companies
rose 2.7 percent in the same period, while the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index advanced 1.5 percent.  A gauge of consumer staples producers rose 2.9 percent as
China’s retail and catering sales in China jumped 18.7 percent
during the Oct. 1 to Oct. 7 holidays from the same period a year
ago, Xinhua reported, citing figures from the Ministry of
Commerce. Sales reached 592.5 billion yuan, the news agency said.  Kweichow Moutai surged 2.8 percent to 173.50 yuan.
Wuliangye Yibin Co., a rival maker of Chinese liquor, advanced 4
percent to 35.70 yuan.  Samsung Asset Management Co., a unit of South Korea’s
biggest brokerage, likes consumer stocks in China because
consumption is poised to explode as disposable income rises and
shopping patterns change.  Consumer ‘Winner’  “The consumer sector will be the winner in the Chinese
stock market,” T.J. Um, who oversees $15 billion as Samsung
Asset’s chief investment officer of global investment, said in
an interview at his office in Seoul yesterday. “Domestic
consumption will be the main factor to boost economic growth.”  China Southern Airlines gained 4.4 percent to 8.64 yuan.
Air China advanced 4.5 percent to 12.43 yuan. Chinese airlines
benefit from a rising yuan as it lowers the value of their
dollar-denominated debt, boosting income.  The nation’s central bank set the daily reference rate for
yuan trading at the strongest level since a dollar peg was
scrapped in July 2005 as Premier Wen Jiabao said this week China
will gradually increase flexibility in the currency. U.S.
Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner reiterated yesterday that
he wants China to let the yuan rise, saying the “main problem”
is that a group of developing nations are not allowing their
currencies to strengthen.  Central bank Vice Governor  Yi Gang  said yesterday China
will do its part to help correct imbalances in the world economy
through a “gradual” appreciation of the yuan. The currency has
climbed 2.3 percent since a fixed-exchange rate was abandoned on
June 19.  -- Chua Kong Ho . With assistance by  Winnie Zhu  in Shanghai.
Editors:  Allen Wan ,  Reinie Booysen   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Chua Kong Ho in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7011 or
 kchua6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at   lchua@bloomberg.net  