-- China to Strengthen Local Demand in Five-Year Plan, Goldman, JPMorgan Say
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2010-10-08T03:51:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/china-to-strengthen-local-demand-in-five-year-plan-goldman-jpmorgan-say.html
China’s policies over the next five
years will focus on boosting domestic consumption and investment
to offset an expected slower pace of growth in the global
economy that will hurt demand for its goods, according to
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Policy makers will probably address calls for a “higher
quality” of growth through better incomes, wage redistribution
and housing reforms when they discuss the outline for the
nation’s 12th five-year plan covering the period for 2011 to
2015 this month, Goldman analysts led by  Helen Qiao  wrote in a
report today. There is likely be no “significant” changes in
the language of monetary and financial system reforms, they said.  China’s economy has expanded more than 90-fold in the past
three decades, fueled by  exports  and manufacturing. Premier  Wen Jiabao  says the global financial crisis has shown the need for
China to focus on “structural problems” in its economy
including taking steps to encourage more domestic spending.  “Chinese policy makers have adopted the view that although
the growth rebound has lifted the world out of recession, a
recovery will probably turn out to be a slow and gradual
process,” the Goldman analysts wrote. “To maintain China’s
high growth in the face of the potential persistence of external
demand weakness, policy makers are likely to prioritize policy
measures boosting domestic consumption and investment demand.”  The government will focus on social infrastructure spending
and restructure its spending to promote education, health care,
social security and pensions in coming years, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts led by chief China economist  Wang Qian  in Hong Kong.  Reduce Saving  “This would not only address rising concerns about income
inequality and hence social instability, but importantly, should
reduce some of the structural factors behind China’s high
household saving rate,” JPMorgan Chase economists said. That
will “thus raise the average household’s propensity to
consume.”  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and American
lawmakers have urged Chinese leaders to look more to domestic
markets for growth. They have also pushed China to allow faster
appreciation of its currency, arguing that an undervalued yuan
gives Chinese manufacturers an unfair advantage in exports.  The U.S. trade deficit with China widened to $145 billion
in the first seven months of this year, from $123 billion for
the same period in 2009.  Yuan Trading  The Chinese government “is likely to indicate its
intention to continue market reforms of the interest-rate
mechanism” and improve the managed floating exchange rate system
by allowing the market to play a more important role,”
according to the Goldman report. “However, the full
liberalization of the capital account will probably still need
to be implemented in a gradual fashion.”  Investment will continue to contribute more to China’s
growth than consumption in the next five years, according to
Goldman. Policy makers will also focus on speeding up
urbanization and infrastructure spending in inland regions,
JPMorgan Chase said.  “Service sectors and those based on domestic demand
expansion in urbanization are likely beneficiaries of these
policy initiatives and should outperform other sectors in the
medium term,” the Goldman analysts wrote.  Wen and President  Hu Jintao  are set to step down from their
Communist Party posts in late 2012 and from their government
positions in March 2013.  “We expect no significant shift in major reform
commitments in the 12th Five-Year Program given that the current
administration is unlikely to make aggressive commitments and
leave them to the next administration to complete,” Goldman
economists said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  