-- N.J. Governor Agrees to Two-Week Study of Hudson Tunnel Options
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   D u n s t a n   M c N i c h o l
-- 2010-10-08T22:15:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/christie-agrees-to-study-of-hudson-tunnel-options-following-lahood-meeting.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie 
agreed after meeting U.S. Transportation Secretary  Ray LaHood  to
a study of options that he said might save a commuter rail
tunnel, a day after canceling the project because of its cost.  The project’s wind-down will continue during the two-week
review, Kevin Roberts, a Christie spokesman, said today in an e-
mail. The tunnel to Manhattan initially expected to cost $8.7
billion is still “not financially viable and is expected to
dramatically exceed its current budget,” the governor said in a
statement.  “However, this afternoon Secretary LaHood presented
several options to potentially salvage a trans-Hudson tunnel
project,” he said.  LaHood met with Christie and New Jersey Transit
Administrator  James Weinstein  for about an hour in Trenton
today.  “Governor Christie and I had a good discussion this
afternoon, during which I presented a number of options for
continuing the ARC tunnel project,” LaHood said in an e-mailed
statement. “We agreed to put together a small working group
from the U.S. Department of Transportation and the office of
N.J. Transit Executive Director Weinstein that will review these
options and provide a report to Governor Christie within two
weeks.”  ‘Never-Ending Hook’  Christie, 48, a first-term Republican said yesterday he
canceled the tunnel because of rising cost estimates that left
New Jersey taxpayers on “a never-ending hook.”  U.S. Senator  Frank Lautenberg  said the tunnel cancellation
will cripple New Jersey’s prospects for growth for decades, by
limiting access to New York City.  “I expect the governor to now work in good faith with the
federal government to move this project forward,” Lautenberg
said in a statement.  “The secretary was clear with Governor Christie: If this
tunnel doesn’t get built, the $3 billion will go to other
states. We can’t allow that to happen.”  The so-called Access to the Region’s Core  project  would
create an 8.8-mile (14-kilometer) conduit under the Hudson River
to double the number of commuter trains to New York at peak
times. Christie said a task force headed by Weinstein concluded
the initial $8.7 billion cost might have reached $14 billion and
the state couldn’t afford it.  Out of Pocket  A cancellation might mean the loss of $600 million of
taxpayer money that has already been spent. New Jersey, the most
densely populated U.S. state, would have to repay the federal
government about $300 million plus interest and penalties for
its share, said Lautenberg.  Assemblyman  John Wisniewski , a Sayreville Democrat who
heads the transportation committee, filed a public-records
request demanding to see all documents related to Christie’s
decision to kill the project. The lawmaker also said his panel
will hold an Oct. 14 hearing on the move.  “Much of New Jersey’s economic future depends on the
governor’s willingness to work with others here to successfully
solve this problem,” he said in a statement released today.  Ben Dworkin , director of the  Rebovich Institute for New
Jersey Politics  at Rider University, said accepting the two-week
study is a “win-win” for Christie. Dworkin said it’s unclear
what benefits the federal government might offer the state that
would entice Christie to reverse his position.  “If the federal government is going to make the terms so
much better for New Jersey that he goes ahead, Chris Christie
comes out smelling like a rose,” Dworkin said. “If the federal
government doesn’t come up with a deal that offers more money,
he still looks like he’s defending the taxpayers. Either way he
wins.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ashley Lutz  in New York at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net ;  Terrence Dopp  in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
 Dunstan McNichol  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 dmcnichol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  