-- Comcast's NBC Deal Said to Face Possible U.S. Arbitration Demand
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2010-10-08T20:55:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/comcast-s-nbc-deal-said-to-face-possible-u-s-arbitration-over-programming.html
Comcast Corp.  may be required to
accept arbitration in disputes over programming sales in order
to win approval of its merger with  General Electric Co. ’s NBC
Universal, said two people involved in talks with regulators.  Justice Department and Federal Communications Commission
officials are weighing arbitration as a condition to help cable
companies and satellite rivals such as  DirecTV  negotiate with
Comcast for programs, said the people, who spoke on condition of
anonymity because the discussions are private.  A requirement would raise costs for Comcast because program
buyers may gain leverage in negotiations for NBC’s content and
channels such as USA and Bravo, said  Jeffrey Silva , an analyst
in Washington with Medley Global Advisors LLC.  “The cost of what you’re talking about is very high,”
Silva said in an interview. “The difference between having
leverage and not having leverage is not a matter of nickels and
dimes. It’s millions.”  The $28 billion deal would give Philadelphia-based Comcast,
the largest U.S. cable provider, control of NBC’s television
network, broadcast stations, cable channels and a share of the
online video provider Hulu, as well as a movie studio and the
Telemundo Spanish-language network and TV stations. Regulators
are reviewing whether Comcast would have too much power over
access and pricing for programming on television and online.  The FCC’s investigation is “both wide and deep” and
appears to be concentrated upon ensuring that Comcast rivals
have access to its programming,  Rebecca Arbogast , a Washington-
based analyst with Stifel Nicolaus & Co., said in an interview.
Distributors of online video may be included in such
protections, she said.  2011 Review  While Arbogast said she expects regulators to approve the
deal, she said the review may extend into next year after the
FCC asked Comcast and NBC on Oct. 4 for additional information.  Sena Fitzmaurice , a Washington-based spokeswoman for
Comcast, Justice Department spokeswoman  Gina Talamona  and FCC
spokeswoman Jen Howard declined to comment.  Comcast “will compete fairly in the marketplace,” Chief
Executive Officer Brian Roberts told Congress in March. Rivals
and advocacy groups such as Washington-based Media Access
Project have said Comcast-NBC will have an incentive to raise
prices and withhold programs from rivals.  Currently, competitors are guaranteed the option of
arbitration for Comcast’s regional sports networks under an FCC
requirement that expires in 2012. The FCC imposed the
requirement when it approved Comcast’s purchase of assets of the
bankrupt Adelphia Communications Corp. in 2006.  ‘Right Without Remedy’  The existing procedures require lengthy discovery processes
and can cost $1 million or more to exercise, making them “a
right without a remedy,”  Colleen Abdoulah , chief executive
officer of closely held Wow!, an Englewood, Colorado-based cable
company, told Congress on Feb. 5.  Any difficulties in the sports-network arbitration has
“resulted from complainants attempting to misuse the
processes,” Comcast said in a July 21 filing with the FCC.  Executives of El Segundo, California-based DirecTV in a
meeting with FCC staff on Oct. 6 “explored various avenues for
streamlining the arbitration process to make it a more
expeditious and cost-effective remedy,” according to a
disclosure filing by the company with the agency.  In a June 21 filing DirecTV proposed so-called “baseball
style” arbitration, in which each side chooses a price and the
arbiter selects one or the other, for NBC stations and national
cable network programming.  Dish, Fox  Satellite provider  Dish Network Corp.  in filings has urged
the FCC to require arbitration “for all Comcast-affiliated
content.”  The  FCC required   News Corp.  to submit to arbitration for
its Fox TV stations’ programming as a condition of approving the
company’s 2003 purchase of a controlling interest in DirecTV.
DirecTV has since been sold.  The FCC’s arbitration requirements for Comcast sports
networks and Fox stations were established under Republican
chairmen. Democrat  Julius Genachowski , the current chairman, has
promised a “thorough, fair and fact-based review” of the
Comcast-NBC deal.  Genachowski declined at a Sept. 23 news conference to say
when the agency would complete its review.  Comcast is “moving as quickly as we possibly can” to
close the transaction by the end of year, Chief Financial
Officer  Michael Angelakis  told investors Sept. 22.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, has opposed the
Comcast-NBC deal in its current form.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Todd Shields  in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 