-- Congo Wants Companies to Face Trial After United Nations War Crimes Report
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2010-10-08T07:59:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/congo-wants-companies-to-face-trial-after-united-nations-war-crimes-report.html
Companies that profited from conflict
in the Democratic Republic of Congo should face repercussions,
Justice Minister  Luzolo Bambi Lessa  said in response to a United
Nations report detailing war crimes from 1993 to 2000.  The so-called mapping report, published on Oct. 1, lists
more than 600 “gross violations of human rights and/or
international law” perpetrated by armed groups during a series
of conflicts in the Central African country. Many of the groups,
which include the armies of seven countries, supported
themselves by exploiting Congo’s natural resources, it says.  “The mapping project does not take into account the
criminal responsibility of all those corporations,
multinationals and other international consortia of companies
which have funded and continue to fund the war in DRC,” Bambi
told reporters in Kinshasa, the capital, on Oct. 2. “These
contractors and supporters of war and death must also have a
place reserved in a criminal trial.”  Bambi didn’t identify any companies or suggest a possible
forum for any possible trials.  Conflict began in eastern Congo in the early 1990s and
continued when fighting in the aftermath of the 1994 genocide in
neighboring Rwanda spread across the border. Hundreds of
thousands of people may have died, according to the UN report.
Fighting still continues in Congo’s eastern provinces.  The mapping report said a number of “domestic and foreign
state-owned or private companies could bear some responsibility
for these crimes having been committed.” It didn’t identify any
companies.  Natural Resources  Congo holds 4 percent of global copper reserves, is among
the world’s largest producers of cobalt and industrial diamonds,
and is Africa’s largest producer of tin ore, known as
cassiterite, according to the  U.S. Geological Survey ’s website.  In 2002, a UN report on the exploitation of natural
resources in Congo found that 85 companies may have violated the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development’s
Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises by supporting the war
directly or indirectly. The guidelines are non-binding
principles and standards for the behavior of companies from OECD
countries.  Several mineral traders on that list, including U.S.-based
 Cabot Corp.  and U.K.-based Amalgamated Metals Corp. Plc, have
denied they were doing business in Congo or eventually stopped
working in the region.  “Although acting entirely lawfully, the threat of
misleading and bad publicity remains for anyone who participates
in the DRC tin trade,” AMC said in a statement after halting its
purchase of cassiterite from Congo last year.  ‘Immoral Activities’  “We deplore all unlawful and immoral activities surrounding
the use and production of coltan mined in the Democratic
Republic of Congo,” Cabot said in an August 2008 statement. The
company advertises on Google that it “has not and will not” mine
coltan in Congo.  Few companies have faced sanctions for their work in Congo
during the war.  In one case in 2008, the U.K. government’s OECD office said
Afrimex (U.K.) Ltd. made payments to a rebel group that
“contributed to the ongoing conflict” in Congo and concluded
that the company “failed to contribute to the sustainable
development in the region; to respect human rights; or to
influence business partners and suppliers to adhere to the
guidelines.”  Afrimex called the findings “perverse.” Global Witness, the
U.K.-based advocacy group, brought the complaint about the
company to the OECD in 2007.  ‘Future Justice’  “Global Witness calls for all individuals known to have
committed serious abuses linked to the competition over natural
resources to be included in any future justice process,” Emilie
Serralta, a researcher at the group, said by e-mail on Oct. 6.
The UN mapping report “robustly demonstrates the need to sever
the link between the mineral trade and violence, and for
individuals and companies to be held to account.”  Legal actions against companies or individuals working for
corporations in conflict zones have been rare, Geraldine
Mattioli-Zeltner, advocacy director for the  Human Rights Watch 
International Justice Program, said by e-mail yesterday. Neither
the International Criminal Court nor any other international
tribunals “have had any cases against individuals working for
companies for complicity in war crimes and crimes against
humanity,” she said.  Mattioli-Zeltner did say a number of civil cases had been
brought against companies and at least two businessmen have been
brought to trial in the Netherlands for complicity in
international crimes in the past. Such prosecutions may be
possible under a variety of national and international laws, she
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael J. Kavanagh  in Goma on 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 