-- UConn Men's Basketball Acknowledges Recruiting Violations, Backs Calhoun
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2010-10-08T18:44:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/connecticut-men-s-basketball-admits-violations-backs-coach-jim-calhoun.html
The  University of Connecticut  put its
men’s basketball program on two years’ probation and reduced the
number of scholarships by one after acknowledging major
recruiting violations, while defending coach  Jim Calhoun .  The Storrs, Connecticut-based university imposed its own
sanctions, according to a  statement  on its website.  In a report released today, the school acknowledged members
of its basketball staff made impermissible telephone calls and
sent text messages to recruits, in violation of National
Collegiate Athletic Association rules. The school also said it
improperly gave free game tickets to high school coaches and
others.  “I am deeply disappointed the university is in this
position,” University President  Philip E. Austin  said in a
statement. “It is clear mistakes have been made. This is a
serious matter and we have worked in full cooperation with the
NCAA. We look forward to fully resolving these issues and
restoring our men’s basketball program to a level of
unquestioned integrity.”  Scholarships for the men’s basketball program will be
reduced to 12 from 13 for the 2010-11 and 2011-12 academic
years, the university said. The school also will reduce the
number of coaches to make calls to recruits and the number of
“recruiting person days.”  A hearing is set for Oct. 15, during which the NCAA could
accept the school’s sanctions or impose additional penalties.  Recruiting Report  The governing body for U.S. college sports and the
university have been investigating the basketball program since
a March 2009 report by Yahoo! Sports said that a former team
manager helped steer Nate Miles to Connecticut by providing him
with lodging, transportation and meals, according to the report.  Miles was expelled from the school in 2008 for violating a
restraining order.  In May, the NCAA cited Connecticut for not adequately
monitoring “the conduct and administration of the men’s
basketball staff” from 2005 through 2009. While the school
acknowledged the violation, the time-period for that was reduced
by the NCAA to two years, spanning 2007-09.  The school’s report said the evidence doesn’t support the
NCAA’s claim that Calhoun, 68, who led the Huskies to national
 championships  in 1999 and 2004, failed to “promote an
atmosphere for compliance.”  The report also alleged that assistant coach Patrick
Sellers and Beau Archibald, who had served as director of
basketball operations, provided false and misleading information
to NCAA investigators. Sellers and Archibald have resigned.  The case has no impact on the other athletic programs at
the school, the university said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Buteau  in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  