-- Credit Suisse's Shiret Ends Three-Year `Sell' Ranking on Marks & Spencer
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2010-10-08T11:47:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/credit-suisse-s-shiret-ends-three-year-sell-ranking-on-marks-spencer.html
Credit Suisse retail analyst  Tony Shiret  stopped advising investors to sell  Mark & Spencer Group
Plc  for the first time in almost three years, citing stronger
sales and the results of a strategic review next month.  Shiret, the second-highest-rated analyst in the pan-
European non-food retail industry, according to a Thomson Extel
poll, raised his  rating  to “neutral” and increased his share
price target by 15 percent to 390 pence in a research report
today. The brokerage has had an “underperform” recommendation
on the stock since January 2008, according to  Bloomberg data .  Improving sales and the review by new Chief Executive
Officer  Marc Bolland  offers some “short term levers,” Shiret
said in the report. Bolland, who took over in May, will announce
the findings of the review alongside first-half results on Nov.
9. London-based Marks & Spencer yesterday reported second-
quarter sales growth that beat analyst estimates.  “We can see no point in retaining our underperform rating
as we move into a period of strategic contemplation,” Shiret
wrote in the note. “The market in our view nearly always buys
into strategy until it does not work, so now seems a good time
to take a more open-minded stance.”  Still, the Credit Suisse analyst remains skeptical of the
retailer’s prospects. Marks & Spencer is poorly placed for
future growth with a customer base that’s too old, an under-
invested business and a format that’s “not suitable” for
overseas development, according to Shiret.  Second-quarter  sales  were boosted by an autumn advertising
campaign that led to increased demand for fashion ranges such as
winter boots and cashmere sweaters.  “The business is clearly under control to a greater extent
than previously, thereby limiting trading risk,” Shiret said.  Marks & Spencer fell 3.5 pence, or 0.9 percent, to 406.5
pence at 12:22 p.m. in London trading, after gaining 4.9 percent
yesterday. The  shares  have climbed 1.1 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Shannon  in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net . 