-- Demag Cranes Shares Reach Two-Year High as Konecranes Expresses Interest
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2010-10-08T15:53:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/demag-shares-jump-after-company-gets-expressions-of-interest-from-abroad.html
Demag Cranes AG , the world’s largest
maker of harbor cranes, rose to the highest in more than two
years in Frankfurt trading after Finnish competitor  Konecranes
Oyj  said it approached the company about a possible merger.  Demag  gained 5.86 euros, or 19 percent, to 37.35 euros, the
highest price since Sept. 2, 2008, as of the 5:30 p.m. close of
trading. The stock has gained 60 percent this year, valuing the
manufacturer at 791 million euros ($1.1 billion).  Konecranes , the world’s biggest maker of industrial cranes,
contacted Demag on Sept. 8 about a “potential combination”
that was rejected, the Hyvinkaa-based company said today in a
stock exchange statement. The Finnish manufacturer said the
European crane industry needs consolidation and that links with
Demag would follow a “convincing logic.”  The companies haven’t held talks and there is “no
certainty that any transaction will materialize,” it said.  Demag , which has its headquarters in Dusseldorf, Germany,
said in a separate statement that after a “highly preliminary”
approach from unidentified foreign parties, management decided
to stick to a stand-alone strategy as further talks wouldn’t be
in the interest of shareholders or the company.  The German company “seems to think it’s strong enough and
doesn’t need a partner,” said  Michael Broeker , an analyst at
Steubing AG in Frankfurt with a “buy”  recommendation  on the
shares. “I don’t think there’ll be any aftermath and both
companies will go back to business as usual.”  The German company first sold stock to the public in 2006.
The manufacturers has no controlling  shareholder .  Konecranes  fell  23 cents, or 0.9 percent, to 26.32 euros in
Helsinki. The shares have risen 38 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cornelius Rahn  in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 