-- Deripaska Can't Call Russia Crime Expert in U.K. Contract Suit, Judge Says
-- B y   J a m e s   L u m l e y
-- 2010-10-08T15:31:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/deripaska-can-t-have-russian-crime-expert-testify-in-u-k-contract-dispute.html
Oleg Deripaska , formerly Russia’s
wealthiest man, lost a court ruling over presenting expert
evidence about Russian organized crime in a lawsuit brought
against him by a former business partner.  Michael Cherney is suing Deripaska for at least $3 billion
in the  High Court  in London claiming he failed to honor an
agreement concerning stakes in two aluminum companies. Deripaska
is co-owner of Moscow-based  United Co. Rusal , the world’s
biggest aluminum company.  Cherney was a “representative of Russian organized
crime,” who infiltrated his business as part of a “protection
racket,” Deripaska’s lawyer Ali Malek said at a hearing today.
Malek said a judge should hear evidence from an organized crime
expert at a trial over the dispute, scheduled to take place in
2012. The expert would testify on the “endemic” criminality
that infected Russian business in the 1990s, he said.  Justice  Nigel Teare  ruled today that expert evidence on the
issue isn’t necessary, as information about the nature of
Russian organized crime doesn’t help to determine whether
Cherney was “part and parcel” of it.  Cherney’s lawyer,  David Foxton , said in an interview after
the hearing that his client denies the allegations and has
“nothing to do” with organized crime.  “Mr. Cherney claims to have been a business partner of Mr.
Deripaska and alleges he is entitled to a stake in UC Rusal, for
which he is seeking compensation,” Deripaska’s spokesman David
Osborn said in an e-mailed statement. Cherney’s claim is
“baseless, riddled with holes and contradictory.”  Deripaska will continue to pursue his application to allow
evidence about organized crime to be introduced, the spokesman
said.  The case is 2006-1218 Michael Cherney v. Oleg Deripaska.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Lumley  in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 