-- Ditzy Ricci Joins Mangled Linney in ‘Time Stands Still’: Review
-- B y   J o h n   S i m o n
-- 2010-10-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/ditzy-ricci-joins-mangled-linney-in-time-stands-still-review.html
After a hiatus of several months
“Time Stands Still,” Donald Margulies’s outstanding four-
character play reopens with three distinguished incumbents
( Laura Linney , Brian d’Arcy James and  Eric Bogosian ) and one
well-known newcomer:  Christina Ricci  has replaced  Alicia Silverstone .  On second viewing, I found the play even more satisfying.
Margulies, a gifted playwright, tells the story of a
photojournalist Sarah Goodwin (Linney) and reporter James Dodd
(James), who have been collaborating and cohabiting for 8 1/2
unwed years and are just back in their Brooklyn loft.  In James’s absence, Sarah was severely wounded in Iraq by a
bomb; next to her in the car, her interpreter-guide and lover
Tariq, was killed.  Waiting for the couple’s reports is Richard Ehrlich
(Bogosian), their seasoned middle-aged editor, who comes around
with his new girlfriend, Mandy Bloom (Ricci), an adoring and,
not incidentally, pregnant young ditz.  Though neatly individualized, these four are also basic
human types, and their interaction is not lacking for resonance.  At issue are war and peace, the perilously adventurous
versus the settled family life, publishing or withholding
disturbing material, and whether the work of Sarah and James may
serve the cause of humanity or merely panders to sensationalist
voyeurism.  Four Stars  What a repertoire of silently eloquent looks Linney has,
how simultaneously loving and reproving d’Arcy James can be and
how aptly Bogosian balances concern with self-interest.  To these Ricci brings a naively overeager first-act
characterization yet a more restrainedly persuasive second-act
one.  Daniel Sullivan’s  thoughtful direction and John Lee
Beatty’s atmospheric set contribute to our pleasure.  At the Cort Theatre, 138 W. 48th St. Information: +1-212-
239-6200;  http://www.telecharge.com  Rating: ****  ‘In Transit’  “In Transit,” which originated at New York’s dubious
 fringe festival  and now reappears, courtesy of the worthy
 Primary Stages , has been kicking around for years. Its chief
interest lies in being an a cappella musical, with the seven
singing actors producing vocally all the music and sound
effects.  Taking place mostly on the subway, it presents a number of
familiar stories, enacted by a cast seemingly recruited for
their plain looks. The nice, modest set by the gifted Anna
Louizos includes the reshuffling of a few detached subway seats,
and some vocal huffing and puffing.  The lyrics are functional enough, but the remarkably
unvaried music bears only a passing resemblance to melody. It
may be of interest that of the six authors (rather too many),
four are in the cast.  At  59E59 Theaters , 59 E. 59th St. Information: +1-212-279-
4200;  http://www.ticketcentral.com  Rating: * 1/2  ( John Simon  is the New York drama critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Simon in New York at  jis1925@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 