-- Doctors Approve Commonwealth Games Swimming Pools After `Delhi Belly' Fear
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2010-10-08T09:39:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/doctors-approve-commonwealth-games-swimming-pools-after-delhi-belly-fear.html
Swimming pools used in New Delhi’s
 Commonwealth Games  were not the cause of sickness among the
Australian and England aquatics teams, officials said today.  Tests carried out at the  games village , practice and
competition pools showed water quality met the standards
required for competition, Games Federation President  Michael
Fennell  said at a news conference in the Indian capital.  Doctors agreed that pool water was not the trigger for the
teams’ stomach complaints, Fennell said, adding that the problem
may have been caused by a “number of other things.”  Steve Moneghetti , Australia’s chef de mission, said that
more than 12 swimmers out of a squad of about 50 had complained
of stomach troubles, ABC reported yesterday. English swimmer
Fran Halsall on Oct. 6 blamed what she described as “Delhi
belly” for her failure to qualify for the 100-meter butterfly
final after she won the gold medal in the 50-meter event the day
before.  The run-up to the Oct. 3-14 games was marred by missed
construction deadlines, the collapse of a stadium footbridge and
complaints of uninhabitable accommodation for athletes.
Authorities accelerated work to complete facilities, clean dirty
toilets and finish roads in the city of 14 million as some
competing nations delayed the departure of their teams.  Trouble-plagued organizers were today fighting for
permission to use helicopters to improve television coverage of
two events to be held on the streets of Delhi.  Ticket Sales  “We are having some concerns with the television
coverage” for the cycling and walking events, Fennell said.
“We are seeking to get authorities to give approval for TV
helicopters to fly” in central parts of the city where flights
are normally restricted.  The organizers, who are still scrambling to fill large
numbers of empty seats in some stadiums, have dispatched free
tickets to schoolchildren and charities. Organizing Committee
Secretary General Lalit Bhanot said 900,000 tickets have been
sold so far.  Seventy-one countries and territories, most former British
colonies, are taking part in the event held every four years and
which features 17 sports.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bibhudatta Pradhan  in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  