-- Dubai's Alliance Medical Hires New CEO to Accelerate Debt Restructuring
-- B y   I s a b e l l   W i t t
-- 2010-10-08T10:34:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/dubai-s-alliance-medical-hires-new-ceo-to-accelerate-debt-restructuring.html
Alliance Medical Ltd., the U.K.
medical imaging company owned by private equity firm Dubai
International Capital LLC, hired  Philippe Houssiau  as chief
executive officer as it seeks to restructure debt.  Houssiau replaces  Alan Pilgrim , who left Alliance Medical
in August. He was previously CEO of Telegentis NV, a Belgium-
based IT service provider for the healthcare industry, and head
of the healthcare unit of AGFA-Gevaert NV, a Belgium maker of
radiology systems.  Houssiau, who joined Oct. 1, is meeting with investors
before the expiry of a debt standstill agreement in November.
Loan holders agreed to not enforce debt covenants since May to
give Warwickshire, England-based Alliance time to reach an
agreement. Alliance Medical owes a total 555 million pounds
($880 million), including 140 million pounds to junior lenders.  “We continue to work constructively with all parties to
ensure the best possible solution for the business,” Houssiau
said in a telephone interview.  Alliance Medical, which Dubai International bought in 2007
for 600 million pounds ($952 million) in a leveraged buyout, has
been in talks with lenders for the past year, after sales were
crimped by healthcare cuts. Dubai International, owned by
emirate ruler Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum, lost access
to borrowing during the economic crisis.  “Trading has been under pressure due to challenging market
conditions and the lengthy restructuring talks have been an
additional factor,” Houssiau said. “The underlying business
and growth prospects remain strong.”  The company hired Blackstone Group LP to find potential
bidders for the company, a person with knowledge of the plan
said Aug. 25. Blackstone valued the company at 300 million
pounds to 340 million pounds, the people said.  Alliance Medical provides scanning services such as MRI
scans used to diagnose cancer, X-rays and ultrasounds for health
providers in Europe, such as the U.K.’s National Health Service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Isabell Witt  in London at 
 iwitt4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 Fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 