-- Early Champagne for 1972 Dolphins Means No Undefeated NFL Team
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-10-08T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/early-champagne-for-1972-dolphins-suggests-no-nfl-team-will-be-undefeated.html
Dick Anderson  and  Nick Buoniconti  for
years popped champagne corks when the National Football League’s
last unbeaten team fell, leaving the perfect mark of their 1972
Miami Dolphins unmatched.  They’ve never had to make plans for the uncorking as early
as they do this season.  Just one year after the Indianapolis Colts opened 14-0 and
the New Orleans Saints 13-0, the Kansas City Chiefs stand as the
NFL’s last unbeaten team at 3-0. With the Chiefs in Indianapolis
this weekend, the NFL could have its first season without a 4-0
club since 1970.  “People aren’t even going to talk about it this year,”
Anderson, 64, a former Pro Bowl safety, said in a telephone
interview from his office in Miami. “Besides, Nick is still up
in Long Island and not down here yet. He and I are the ones who
usually do the champagne.”  The Chiefs, who went 4-12 last season, are eight-point
underdogs for their Oct. 10 game in Indianapolis. Should the
Chiefs lose, Anderson said he and Buoniconti would still pop a
bottle of bubbly for tradition’s sake, though probably not until
sometime next month.  “The challenge is watching it get closer and closer,”
said Anderson, who played nine years with the Dolphins and was a
Florida state senator from 1978 to 1982. “There are still good
teams, but they happened to get knocked off early. There
certainly has been parity.”  10-0 Starts  At least one NFL team started 10-0 in each of the past five
seasons.  In 2007, the New England Patriots went 16-0 during the
regular season before losing to the New York Giants in the Super
Bowl. Last season, the Colts and Saints had the best joint start
in league history and then met in the Super Bowl, with New
Orleans winning 31-17.  Through five weeks last season, Indianapolis and New
Orleans were among a record five teams with unbeaten records.  Coming into the fourth week this year, there were three.
While the Chiefs were off last week, the Chicago Bears lost to
the  Giants 17-3 and the Pittsburgh Steelers were denied a 4-0
start with a 17-14 loss against the Baltimore Ravens in which
they gave up the winning touchdown with 32 seconds remaining.  “It’s obviously a bit unusual in that regard,” Colts
coach  Jim Caldwell  said two days ago in a news conference. “But
I just think that week in and week out, there are so many good
teams and a very slight difference between each club.”  Perfect Record  Kansas City opened with wins over San Diego, Cleveland and
San Francisco. The 49ers are among the NFL’s four winless teams,
at 0-4 along with Detroit, Carolina and Buffalo.  With a victory this week, the Chiefs would match their win
total from last season.  “As you see across the league, there’s a lot of parity,”
said  Matt Cassel , the Chiefs’ 28-year-old quarterback, who has
494 passing yards with four touchdowns and three interceptions.
“We’re the last unbeaten team, but it doesn’t really mean
anything right now.”  Each year in the past decade, the team that had the longest
unbeaten start went on to make the playoffs. That includes the
2002 Oakland Raiders, who opened 4-0 before an Oct. 3 loss to
the St. Louis Rams.  The Chiefs began this season with 100-1 odds of winning the
Super Bowl, according to Las Vegas oddsmakers, tied for the
third-longest among the league’s 32 teams. Kansas City now
stands at 40-1.  “Whoever thought Kansas City would be the last undefeated
team standing?” said Anderson, the defensive back from those
all-winning Dolphins. “That would have been a heck of a bet,
wouldn’t it?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  