-- Lebanon Must Tighten Budget, Avoid `Overheating' Economy, IMF Report Says
-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 2010-10-08T15:35:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/lebanon-must-tighten-budget-avoid-overheating-economy-imf-report-says.html
Lebanon must tighten its budget and
avoid “overheating” an economy that has maintained growth
through the global financial crisis, the  International Monetary
Fund  said.  The government should “consider tax measures, including
income-tax reform and broadening of the value-added tax,” the
Washington-based lender said in a report published on its
website today. It urged Lebanon to “reduce budgetary transfers
to the electricity sector” and “manage the buoyant economy
cautiously to avoid overheating and to prevent the buildup of
new vulnerabilities.”  Lebanon’s economy, helped by tourism and bank deposits from
Lebanese citizens living abroad, grew 9 percent last year and is
forecast by the IMF to expand another 8 percent this year.
Still, the country’s debt remains among the world’s highest as a
proportion of economic output and “structural reforms have
remained stalled,” the fund said.  Plans to sell two state-owned mobile-phone operators, which
aimed to raise as much as $7 billion, were put on hold first
because of internal political tensions and then due to the
global credit crunch and parliamentary elections last year.
Restructuring the state-owned power company,  Electricite du
Liban , which received $1.5 billion of government subsidies last
year, has also been delayed.  Lebanon’s currency peg to the dollar since 1993, as well as
high interest rates on Lebanese-pound deposits, helped attract
billions of dollars that enabled local banks to finance fiscal
deficits.  Deposits grew about 24 percent last year to $103 billion,
around three times the country’s gross domestic product.
Deposits may increase by more 10 percent this year, central bank
Governor  Riad Salameh  said in a Sept. 6 interview.  Banks depend on the inflows to finance government
borrowing, and “with high loan dollarization, banks carry
significant exposure to unhedged borrowers,” the IMF said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Massoud A. Derhally  in Beirut, Lebanon at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net  