-- Technology Replaces Banks as Better Dividend Bet for Investors
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2010-10-08T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/technology-replaces-banks-as-better-dividend-bet-for-investors.html
Investors in the U.S. who used to
rely on financial stocks for dividends can turn to an unlikely
successor: information technology.  Companies in the IT industry eclipsed financials in total
dividend payouts for the first time in the third quarter. That
marks a change as IT companies generally have held onto cash so
they could reinvest it in research and development or make
acquisitions. Now, facing pressure from yield-starved
shareholders, firms such as Cisco Systems Inc. and Microsoft
Corp. are choosing to disburse some of that cash by introducing
or increasing dividends.  “Tech has excess cash and the ability to pay, whereas
financials will take a long time to get back to where they
were,” said  Howard Silverblatt , a senior index analyst at
Standard & Poor’s in New York.  IT stocks accounted for 9.2 percent of the almost $210
billion in  dividends  paid out as of Oct. 7 compared with 8.9
percent for financial stocks, according to data compiled by S&P.
In 2007 before the recession, financial stocks made up 30
percent of dividends and IT was 5.7 percent.  Companies in the IT sector are also maturing, which means
 cash flow  has risen and capital needs have fallen, said James
Meyer, chief investment officer of investment management firm
Tower Bridge Advisors in West Conshohocken, Pennsylvania, whose
typical clients have $1 million or more in investable assets.  As of Oct. 6, 73 stocks in the  S&P 500 Index  paid dividends
exceeding the average corporate bond yield of 3.6 percent, more
than at any time in at least 15 years, data compiled by
Bloomberg and Bank of America Corp. show. The average yield for
a stock in the IT industry that pays dividends is 1.9 percent
compared with 1.4 percent for a financial stock, based on data
from S&P.  Reduced Payouts  Many financial companies reduced or eliminated their
payouts because they accepted funds from the Troubled Asset
Relief Program and are concerned about meeting certain capital
requirements before paying them again, said  Jeff Rubin , director
of research at Westport, Connecticut-based Birinyi Associates, a
money management and research firm.  Low fixed-income rates are also fueling the hunt for higher
yields. The  two-year  Treasury note yield fell to a record low of
0.3512 percent yesterday. The  10-year  security’s yield dropped
to 2.3552 percent on Oct. 6, the lowest level since January
2009.  Clients are seeking dividend-paying stocks of high quality
because they want income and companies “that they can go to
sleep with at night,” said  Hank Smith , chief investment officer
of Radnor, Pennsylvania-based Haverford Trust Co., which manages
about $6 billion.  Haverford’s Quality Growth Portfolio , which
has about $3 billion invested in dividend-paying companies,
allocates 21 percent to technology stocks and 13 percent to
financials.  Telecommunications Yields  Although more IT stocks are paying dividends, investors
should remember they still pay less than other industries, Rubin
of Birinyi Associates said. Telecommunications and  utilities 
offer the highest yields of 6.1 percent and 4.5 percent,
respectively. And banks may start paying higher dividends again
as soon as 2011, he said.  Helen Modly , a fee-only financial planner at Focus Wealth
Management in Middleburg, Virginia, said she’s adding dividend
exchange-traded funds to portfolios for the first time because
of clients’ requests for yield. She said she prefers  SPDR S&P
Dividend ETF , which has returned 13 percent this year, and
 Vanguard Dividend Appreciation ETF , which has returned 7.2
percent, because they’re less risky than owning individual
stocks.  The SPDR S&P  fund , which yields 3.3 percent, has attracted
$1.36 billion in net new inflows during the first eight months
of the year, said  Jim Ross , global head of ETFs at State Street
Global Advisors in Boston. The greatest allocation in the fund
is to utilities, at 21 percent.  Tax Implications  In one of Vanguard Group Inc.’s actively managed dividend
funds, the  Equity Income Fund , IT has increased to 8 percent
from 2 percent of assets, said  Linda Wolohan , a spokeswoman for
the Valley Forge, Pennsylvania-based mutual fund company.  Last week Fidelity Investments changed the benchmark for
its  Strategic Dividend and Income Fund  to the MSCI USA High
Dividend Yield Index from the Russell 3000 Value Index to
increase yield, said  Chris Sharpe , co-portfolio manager of the
fund, who’s based in Boston.  The move resulted in holdings in the financial industry
dropping and IT increasing. As of June 30, the MSCI Index had
3.5 percent in financials compared with 30 percent in the
 Russell Index  and IT had 5.8 percent compared with 5 percent in
the Russell Index, according to Fidelity.  For investors who opt to put money in dividend-paying
stocks, there are tax implications to consider. Many dividends
have been taxed at a federal rate of 15 percent since 2003. Next
year, if Congress doesn’t act, they may be taxed as ordinary
income, as high as 39.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexis Leondis  in New York at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net .
 Margaret Collins  in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Levinson at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 