-- Egypt Must End Police Killing of African Migrants, Human Rights Watch Says
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2010-10-08T13:23:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/egypt-must-end-police-killing-of-african-migrants-human-rights-watch-says.html
Egypt must end its killing of African
migrants trying to cross illegally into Israel, Human Rights
Watch said today as the Arab country assumed the chair of the
 United Nations  refugee agency.  Egyptian border police have killed 85 African migrants
trying to cross the Sinai peninsula into the Jewish state since
July 2007, the New York-based group said in an e-mailed
statement. Some of the migrants probably had a case for asylum,
it said.  The executive committee of the UNHCR, as the refugee agency
is known, elected Egypt as chair for a year starting today.  Egypt is assuming the post “while back home it shoots
unarmed migrants and blocks UNHCR’s access to detainees seeking
the agency’s protection,” said  Joe Stork , deputy Middle East
and North Africa director at Human Rights Watch. “To be
consistent with its position as the executive committee’s new
chair, Egypt needs to put its own house in order.”  Egyptian Foreign Ministry spokesman  Hossam Zaki  couldn’t
immediately be reached for comment. The Egyptian government has
denied any wrongdoing, saying that police detain the vast
majority of migrants and shoot only at those who ignore repeated
warnings.  Human rights groups say African migrants suffer from
discrimination and economic marginalization in Egypt, a U.S.
ally and one of two Arab countries that have full diplomatic
ties with Israel.  In 2005, Egyptian police killed more than 20 Sudanese
refugees and asylum seekers holding a sit-in at a Cairo park to
demand that the UN refugee agency consider their requests to be
resettled in other countries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alaa Shahine  in Cairo at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 