-- Meirelles Says Brazil Will Protect Economy, Real From Inflows, Imbalances
-- B y   I u r i   D a n t a s   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2010-10-08T16:26:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/meirelles-says-brazil-will-protect-economy-real-from-inflows-imbalances.html
Brazilian policy makers will take the
necessary steps to protect their economy as a global accord to
prevent the dollar from weakening seems unlikely, central bank
president  Henrique Meirelles  said.  Monetary policies carried out by rich nations such as the
U.S. are creating “excessive” inflows to emerging economies,
including Brazil, that can lead to the formation of “bubbles,”
Meirelles said today at event in Washington on the sidelines of
the annual meeting of the International Monetary Fund and World
Bank.  “Brazil cannot pay an excessive price for the fact it’s
doing well while others are doing badly,” Meirelles said.
“Many countries started to take measures in this regard and,
evidently, Brazil needs to take its measures to protect itself
from this imbalances.”  Developing economies in the Group of 24 yesterday said
industrial nations’ low interest rates have left them vulnerable
to exchange rate appreciations and overheating. Brazil has
stepped up intervention in the currency market in a bid to
prevent the real from rallying as the world engages in what
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  called Sept. 27 a “currency
war.”  “Brazil is taking and will take the necessary measures to
keep its economy balanced,” Meirelles said. Meirelles said that
it’s unlikely in the short term that nations meeting in
Washington this weekend will come to an agreement to deal with
the global imbalances that are weakening the dollar.  Imbalances, Inflows  The real has gained 38 percent since the end of 2008, the
third-best performance among the 16 most-traded currencies
tracked by Bloomberg, trailing only Australia’s dollar and South
Africa’s rand, which are up 40 percent and 39 percent
respectively.  In trading today, the real gained 0.3 percent to 1.6761 per
U.S. dollar at 12:18 p.m. New York time. On Oct. 5, the currency
reached a two-year high of 1.6632 in mid-day trading.  Mantega, speaking to reporters today in Washington, said
the Group of 20 nations can arrive at an agreement akin to the
1985 Plaza Accord on how to manage currencies to avoid a world
imbalance.  “I’m optimistic because I think we can solve the problem if
we have a collective action,” Mantega said.  Brazil’s Finance Ministry on Oct. 4 doubled a tax
foreigners must pay to invest in Brazilian fixed-income
securities and funds after the real reached its strongest level
in more than two years last week.  Stepped-Up Policy  Two days later, the government authorized the Treasury to
step up dollar purchases for debt payment to supplement the
central bank’s daily dollar purchases.  Meirelles said Brazil’s widening  current account  deficit
can help temper the real’s gains. The gap widened to a record
$45.8 billion in the 12 months through August.  Foreign investors plowed $22.9 billion into Brazil’s
financial markets from Jan. 1 to Oct. 1, compared with $18.8
billion for all of last year, according to central bank figures.  As the real strengthens, Brazil’s  trade surplus  has
narrowed to $16.9 billion in the 12 months through September,
the lowest reading in more than seven years, according to
figures by the Trade Ministry.  Brazil’s international reserves climbed to a record $278.7
billion on Oct. 6 up from $206.8 at the end of 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andre Soliani  in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
Iuri Dantas in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  