-- O2, Vodafone Lose U.K. Ruling to Free Up 3G Spectrum
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2010-10-08T13:18:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/telefonica-vodafone-lose-u-k-regulator-ruling-on-freeing-up-3g-spectrum.html
Telefonica SA ’s O2 and  Vodafone Group
Plc  lost a U.K. court bid to start using their second-generation
wireless spectrum for newer smartphones such as Apple Inc.’s
iPhone to improve data capacity.  A European Union directive to start using the 900 and 1800
megahertz bands for 3G technology doesn’t oblige the U.K. to
change O2’s and Vodafone’s licenses before studying how the move
would affect competition, according to a ruling yesterday by the
 Competition Appeal Tribunal  in London.  “We are naturally disappointed,” Telefonica spokesman
 David Nicholas  said in an e-mail. “We believe EU legislation
gives us the immediate right to use 2G spectrum for 3G services.
Speedy liberalization is in the best interest of U.K.
consumers.”  The breadth and speed of a service can help operators gain
market share as users shift their phones onto more reliable
networks. Vodafone slipped to the U.K.’s No. 3 provider after
 France Telecom SA ’s Orange and  Deutsche Telekom AG ’s T-Mobile
units merged to form a company called Everything Everywhere.  O2 appealed after Britain’s telecommunications regulator,
 Ofcom , denied its request to let it use 3G technology on the 900
megahertz band in anticipation of the EU directive. Everything
Everywhere and Hutchison Whampoa Ltd.’s U.K. unit, which use the
1800 megahertz airwave, backed Ofcom in the case.  Newbury, England-based Vodafone and Madrid-based Telefonica
are the only U.K. operators to hold the 900 megahertz band,
which they use for 2G technology. Everything Everywhere has five
times as much of the 1800 megahertz band than the other two
operators combined.  The EU directive to “harmonize” the 900 and 1800
megahertz bands for the bloc’s 27 countries was supposed to be
implemented in May. Operators need the bandwidth to cope with
surging data demand as users watch films and surf the Web on
smartphones.  The loss in court comes after the U.K. in July lifted a cap
on how much of the 800 megahertz band that Vodafone and O2 can
buy at an auction the government wants set up by the end of
2011. Germany held a similar auction this year and the EU may
set a 2013 deadline for countries to hand over the spectrum.  The 800-megahertz band, used for disappearing analog TV,
travels long distances with few expensive base stations.  The tribunal “found that Ofcom was right in its view of the
correct interpretation of the European law on the liberalization
of the 900 and 1800 MHz spectrum, contrary to the position taken
by O2,” Ofcom spokesman Rhys Hurd said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Larson  in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net . or
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net . 