-- Elpida to Sell $728 Million in Convertible Bonds to Fund Plant Upgrade
-- B y   J a s o n   C l e n f i e l d   a n d   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a
-- 2010-10-08T07:42:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/elpida-to-sell-728-million-in-five-year-convertible-bonds-filing-shows.html
Elpida Memory Inc. , the Japanese
chipmaker bailed out by the government last year, plans to sell
60 billion yen ($728 million) in convertible bonds aimed at
local private investors.  The five-year 0.5 percent bonds will be used to repay debt
and upgrade semiconductor-manufacturing equipment, according to
a statement to the stock exchange today.  The world’s third-largest maker of computer-memory chips
faces pressure to keep up with industry leader Samsung
Electronics Co., which is spending an estimated $10 billion
annually to widen its lead in chip production.  Shares  of the
Tokyo-based company rose 5.2 percent today on the Tokyo Stock
Exchange, after plunging as much as 5.6 percent in the morning.
The Nikkei 225 Stock Average slipped 0.1 percent.  The shares reversed direction after it became clear the
sale was to private investors, said  Yasuhiro Matsumoto , a senior
credit analyst at Shinsei Securities Co. in Tokyo. When
institutional investors buy convertible bonds, they sometimes
short the shares as a hedge, he said. Short-selling means
borrowing and selling shares to buy back at a lower price.  The bond issuance was reported earlier today by the Nikkei,
before full details were released through a regulatory filing.  The bonds will be sold at 102.5 percent of face value, and
the conversion share price will be set between Oct. 19 and Oct.
21 at a premium of 29 percent to 34 percent, the statement said.  Conversion Price  Holders will have an option to sell the notes back to the
manufacturer at 100 percent of face value on Sept. 30, 2013,
according to the statement. The company has the option to buy
the notes back at par should its share price be 30 percent
higher than the conversion price over 20 consecutive trading
days after Dec. 3, 2012, it said.  Elpida President  Yukio Sakamoto  said in interviews this
week the company may buy shares of Taiwanese chipmakers
including Powerchip Technology Corp. and ProMOS Technologies Inc.
to compete against Samsung. Elpida is considering stakes of 20
percent to 30 percent and any deals may lead to takeovers,
though no negotiations are under way, the executive said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Clenfield  in Tokyo at 
 jclenfield@bloomberg.net ;
 Yusuke Miyazawa  in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net . 