-- Emerging Market Equity Fund Inflows Exceed $6 Billion in Week, EPFR Says
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2010-10-08T03:32:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/emerging-market-equity-fund-inflows-exceed-6-billion-most-since-2007.html
Overseas investors pumped the most
cash into emerging-market equities since late 2007 in October
and Asia bond funds attracted more capital on further signs
growth in developed nations is slowing, according to EPFR Global.  The equity funds received net inflows of more than $6
billion in the week ended Oct. 6, the biggest amount in 33
months, the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based research company said
in an e-mailed  statement . Investors added $1.1 billion to funds
dedicated to emerging-market debt, it said. They took out $3.2
billion from U.S. stock funds, the most in five weeks.  Inflows are breaking records since EPFR started tracking
the data in 1995 on speculation central banks will join Japan’s
monetary easing, releasing more capital that can be invested in
higher-yielding assets. The Bank of Japan cut its  benchmark
interest rate  to near-zero on Oct. 5, while the European Central
Bank yesterday left borrowing costs at 1 percent, unchanged
since May 2009.  “Liquidity is really ample, driving equities higher,’ said
 Chu Moon Sung , a fund manager at Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset
Management Co. in Seoul, which manages about $28 billion. Rate
policies “should continue to boost asset prices and money
inflows into emerging countries will continue.”  The  U.S. dollar  traded near the weakest level in 15 years
against the yen today and was near an eight-month low versus the
currencies of its six major trading partners, based on the
 Dollar Index .  Five-year  U.S. Treasury yields plunged to an all-
time low this week while 10-year yields in Japan matched the
 lowest  since August 2003. Gold prices reached a record yesterday.  Record Inflows  “With the value of the U.S. dollar slumping to multi-year
lows, flows into emerging-market assets and commodities
accelerated,” according to EPFR, which tracks $13 trillion of
total assets. “Commodity-producing countries and regions
attracted the strongest interest.”  Net inflows into commodity-sector funds amounted to $706
million, taking the year’s tally to almost $19 billion.  Before today’s report, investors had plowed $49.4 billion
into emerging-market stock funds this year and $39.5 billion
into bond funds through Sept. 30, both poised for a record
annual tally, EPFR said on Oct. 1.  Flows into Brazil equity funds climbed to a 156-week high
while inflows into Asia ex-Japan stocks slowed as regional
currencies strengthened, EPFR said. The Thai baht and Malaysian
ringgit traded near 13-year highs.  Among bond funds, emerging Asia took in fresh money for a
17th straight week because of the “combination of strong growth,
sound public finances and appreciating currencies offered by
many of the region’s key markets,” EPFR said.  “Fund inflows will persist in the short term as Asian
economies are expanding at a much stronger pace than those in
the U.S. and Europe,” said  Win Udomrachtavanich , a Bangkok-
based chief investment officer at Asset Plus Fund Management Co.,
which oversees about $750 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Yong  in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  