-- Emerging Stocks Weighed Down by U.S. Jobs Data, Disappointing Earnings
-- B y   J a c k   J o r d a n
-- 2010-10-08T14:47:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/emerging-market-stocks-decline-paring-sixth-weekly-advance-china-surges.html
Emerging-market stocks stayed lower,
paring the benchmark index’s sixth weekly gain, after U.S. jobs
data and disappointing earnings overshadowed advances in China
and rising fund inflows to developing nations.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  dropped 0.4 percent to
1,098.13 at 10:38 a.m. New York time, a second day of declines.
The measure’s 1.1 percent gain this week sets it on course for
its longest winning streak since March. China’s  Shanghai
Composite Index  rose 3.1 percent, while benchmark gauges in
Taiwan, South Korea, the Philippines, Indonesia and Thailand
slumped. Malaysia’s index was little changed.  Developing-nation stocks maintained declines after new
payrolls data released in the U.S. showed employers cut 95,000
jobs in September, 90,000 more than the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg, boosting speculation the
Federal Reserve may take further steps to stimulate the economy.  The jobs report is a “strong signal” for further easing
by the Fed, said  Bill Gross , manager of the world’s biggest bond
fund, in a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with
 Tom Keene .  Samsung Electronics Co. , Asia’s biggest maker of
semiconductors, fell for a second day after profit missed
analysts’ estimates. China Shenhua Energy Co. and PetroChina Co.
surged, leading a rally in energy and raw-materials stocks as
the country’s markets reopened after five days of holidays.
Moody’s Investors Service cited China’s economic growth outlook
for a possible upgrade in its debt rating.  Slowdown Concerns  “While liquidity will drive the markets, there might be
short-term hiccups in terms of earnings forecasts and concerns
of a slowdown,” said  Scott Lim , chief executive officer of
Kuala Lumpur-based MIDF Amanah Asset Management Bhd., which
oversees the equivalent of $670 million. “Liquidity can put up
a strong front to the negative sentiment.”  Overseas investors pumped the most cash into emerging-
market equities since late 2007 in October and Asia bond funds
attracted more capital on further signs growth in developed
nations is slowing, according to EPFR Global.  The equity funds received net inflows of more than $6
billion in the week ended Oct. 6, the biggest amount in 33
months, the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based research company said
in an e-mailed  statement . Investors withdrew $3.2 billion from
U.S. stock funds, the most in five weeks.  MSCI, S&P  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index rallied 17 percent last
quarter, the most in a year, on speculation developing nations
will be able to sustain their recovery and that central banks
around the world may be prepared to take more measures to spur
growth.  The ruble was little changed at 29.86 per dollar. Brazil,
Russia, India and China will put up “strong resistance” to
attempts to make a “harsh appraisal” of currency controls at
the annual meeting of the International Monetary Fund and World
Bank this week in Washington, Russian Deputy Finance Minister
 Dmitry Pankin  told reporters late yesterday.  A “bubble” may be forming in the country’s financial
markets, Pankin also told reporters today. Corporate bonds are
selling like “hot cakes,” he said. Dollar bonds sold by
Russian companies  yield  5.38 percent, an all-time low, down from
an average of 20.4 percent in October 2008, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ index.  South Korea, Thailand  Hyundai Department Store Co., a South Korean department
store chain, fell 3.8 percent in Seoul trading after BNP Paribas
SA and Hyundai Securities Co. cut recommendations on the stock.
BNP lowered the stock’s rating to “reduce” from “hold,”
citing a potential slowdown in same-store sales growth. The
retailer was downgraded to “market perform” from “buy” at
Hyundai Securities.  Sri Trang Agro-Industry Pcl, Thailand’s biggest publicly
traded rubber producer, added 3.2 percent in Bangkok to close at
its highest level since August 1991, after rubber prices in
Shanghai climbed. China is Thailand’s biggest export market for
rubber.
       China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. , Asia’s biggest refiner,
rose 2.9 percent in Shanghai trading after its parent agreed
last week to pay $7.1 billion for a stake in Repsol YPF SA’s
Brazilian unit.  Turkey’s benchmark ISE National 100 Index rose 458.27, or
0.7 percent, to 67,217.24.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jack Jordan  in London at 
 jjordan22@bloomberg.net .
 Chan Tien Hin  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reinie Booysen at 
 rbooysen@bloomberg.net  