-- Payrolls Decline More Than Forecast as Teachers Fired
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2010-10-08T20:33:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/employers-in-u-s-cut-more-jobs-in-september-than-economists-had-estimated.html
The U.S. lost more jobs than forecast
in September as local governments fired teachers and other
workers in response to declining tax revenue.  Payrolls fell by 95,000 workers after a revised 57,000
decrease in August, Labor Department figures in Washington
showed today. Private employers added 64,000 jobs, less than
forecast. Wages and the workweek stagnated.  The  dollar  weakened and the Dow Jones Industrial Average
closed above 11,000 as the report bolstered speculation the
Federal Reserve will embark on a renewed round of large-scale
asset purchases to spur growth. New York Fed President  William Dudley  said last week that further action is “likely to be
warranted” unless the labor market improves.  “The private-sector growth is somewhat heartening but in
total you have to expect that state and local and government
jobs are going to be a drag for a number of months and perhaps a
number of quarters,”  Bill Gross , co-chief investment officer at
Pacific Investment Management Co. in Newport Beach, California,
said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with Tom
Keene. Gross called the report a “strong signal” for further
Fed action.  The dollar decreased 0.3 percent to 82.14 yen at 4:31 p.m.
in New York. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to 2.38
percent from 2.39 percent late yesterday. The Dow rose 0.5
percent to 11,006.48, the highest close since May 3.  Jobless Rate  The  unemployment rate  held at 9.6 percent in September, the
Labor Department said. The rate was forecast to rise to 9.7
percent, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey of 83 economists. Total payrolls were projected to fall
by 5,000, while private payrolls were forecast to rise by
75,000. Revisions show that companies hired 93,000 in August and
117,000 in July, indicating a slower pace of job growth.  Government payrolls decreased by 159,000 last month. State
and local governments reduced employment by 83,000, while the
federal government lost 76,000 jobs as census workers were
fired.  State and local governments from New Jersey to California
are firing workers to balance their budgets as declining
property values and slowing economic growth squeeze tax revenue.  Public schools in New Jersey were set to start the academic
year down 10,000 jobs, including 7,000 educators who chose to
retire,  Steve Wollmer , a spokesman for the New Jersey Education
Association, a union that represents teachers, said in August
after Governor  Chris Christie  slashed $1.3 billion in aid to
schools and local governments.  November Elections  Today’s jobs report is the last before the Nov. 2
congressional elections that threaten to deprive the Democrats
of their majorities in the House and Senate, partly as a result
of voter disenchantment with President  Barack Obama ’s handling
of the economy.  Obama’s job approval over a three-day period that ended
Oct. 5 was 43 percent,  compared  with 53 percent at the same time
last year, according to a poll from Princeton, New Jersey-based
Gallup Inc.  “We need to continue to explore ways that we can help
states and local governments maintain workers who provide vital
services,” Obama said today in an appearance in Bladensburg,
Maryland. “At the same time, we have to keep doing everything
we can to accelerate this recovery.”  Federal Aid  Obama on Aug. 10 signed into law legislation providing $26
billion in aid to state governments. The bill was designed to
prevent thousands of layoffs of teachers and other public
service employees.  Inventories at wholesalers rose 0.8 percent in August, more
than forecast, as companies kept stockpiles in line with demand,
according to a separate report today from the Commerce
Department. Sales increased 0.5 percent.  The jobless rate has equaled or exceeded 9.5 percent for 14
consecutive months, surpassing the 13-month period from mid 1982
to mid 1983 as the longest span of elevated joblessness since
monthly records began in 1948.  “If we’re only creating jobs at this pace, the
unemployment rate is going to go higher,” said  Nigel Gault ,
chief U.S. economist at IHS Global Insight in Lexington,
Massachusetts, who forecast a 65,000 gain in private payrolls.
“We aren’t creating enough jobs to keep it steady.”  The S&P 500 surged 8.7 percent last month, making it the
biggest September gain since 1939, amid speculation the world’s
largest economy will avoid slipping back into recession and bets
that the Fed will buy more debt to support the recovery.  Dudley Comments  “Further action is likely to be warranted unless the
economic outlook evolves in a way that makes me more confident
that we will see better outcomes for both employment and
inflation before too long,” the New York Fed’s Dudley said in
an Oct. 1 speech, a day after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
in a statement that the central bank has a duty to aid the
economy.  James Bullard , president of the St. Louis Fed, said earlier
today that chance of a renewed recession has diminished and
there may not be a strong enough case for additional stimulus.
The Federal Open Market Committee next meets Nov. 2-3.  “The risk of double-dip recession has probably receded
some in the last six to eight weeks,” Bullard said in an
interview with CNBC before the jobs report. “The economy has
slowed, but it hasn’t slowed so much that it’s an obvious case
to do something.”  The economy grew at a 1.7 percent annual pace in the second
quarter after expanding at a 3.7 percent rate in the first three
months of the year and 5 percent at the end of 2009.  Unemployment Forecast  The unemployment rate is forecast to average 9.2 percent
next year, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg
survey of economists last month.  The buying power of consumers whose purchases make up
nearly 70 percent of the economy isn’t improving, today’s report
showed. Average hourly earnings were little changed at $19.10,
and the average work week for all workers held at 34.2 hours.  The decrease in overall payrolls reflected a 77,000 decline
of temporary workers hired by the government to conduct the
decennial population count and a 49,800 drop in teaching jobs at
the local government level.  Manufacturing payrolls decreased by 6,000 after declining
28,000 a month earlier. Economists projected a 2,000 increase
for September. Employment at service-providers decreased 73,000.
Construction companies subtracted 21,000 workers and retailers
hired 5,700 workers.  Underemployment Rate  The so-called underemployment rate -- which includes part-
time workers who’d prefer a full-time position and people who
want work but have given up looking -- increased to 17.1 percent
from 16.7 percent.  The number of temporary workers rose to 16,900 after adding
17,700 in August. Payrolls at temporary-help agencies often
slows as companies seeing a steady increase in demand take on
permanent staff.  The unwinding of census employment has distorted the
payroll figures for months as the government dismissed workers
as the count winds down. Only about 6,000 census workers remain
on the payrolls, indicating September may be the last month the
jobs data will be distorted.  The Labor Department today also published its preliminary
estimate for the annual benchmark revisions to payrolls that
will be issued in February.  The revision may mean the worst recession since the 1930s
resulted in the loss of 8.73 million jobs, up from the 8.36
million currently on the books.  Revisions  Revisions to July and August figures showed bigger
decreases in payrolls than previously estimated. The adjustments
reflected bigger losses in government, while private payrolls
were pushed up. Companies hired 93,000 workers in August and
117,000 in July, compared with previously estimated gains of
54,000 for each month.  While some companies are still firing employees, others are
recalling workers. American Airlines, the third largest U.S.
airline, plans to recall 545 flight attendants and 250 pilots to
meet demand for international flights as it begins it begins an
alliance with British Airways Plc and Spain’s Iberia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  