-- Enel Awaits Romanian Energy Reforms Before Making Reactor Bid
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2010-10-08T13:34:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/enel-wants-to-see-romanian-energy-reforms-before-deciding-on-reactor-bid.html
Italy’s  Enel SpA  wants to see how
Romanian restructures its energy industry before deciding to
take part in bidding on a 4 billion-euro ($5.6 billion) project
to build two nuclear reactors, Enel country manager Claudio Zito
said.  The government plans to merge its energy assets, including
nuclear generation, under two holdings to improve efficiency by
the end of this year, later than an initial forecast of June 30.
It also would need approval by the nation’s competition watchdog
because the holdings would control 90 percent of the market.  The Cabinet, cash-strapped to find ways to save money, is
coming under pressure from unions, who sued the government on
charges the plan would merge unprofitable assets with money-
making enterprises. E.ON Romania Chief Executive Officer Frank
Hajdinjak also said the project endangers new investments and is
a “step backward” for the market.  “Our willingness to invest is strongly dependent on how
the regulation of the market will be reformed,” said Zito in an
interview yesterday in Bucharest. “We are looking at what the
government will do for the reform of the generation system. I
think that is a crucial moment in which all the investors will
see how to go ahead.”  The country’s wants to merge its hydropower and hard coal
holdings under one entity called Hidroenergetica SA. Coal-fired
and hydropower plants and two nuclear reactors would be moved
into a second holding called Electra SA.  Venture Members  Enel is part of a venture created to build and operate the
two planned reactors together with  Iberdrola SA , GDF Suez SA’s
Electrabel SA unit, Germany’s RWE AG, steelmaker ArcelorMittal
and the Romanian state, which owns the majority 51 percent
stake.  Czech utility  CEZ AS , which holds 9.12 percent of the
venture, said on Sept. 22 that it plans to sell its stake to
focus on domestic investments.  The investors might split CEZ’s stake in the venture or
negotiate a one-on-one deal and Enel would be interested “in
principal” to increase its 9.1 percent stake in the reactor
venture “but we have to consider how the market will be
reformed,” Zito said.  All the investors in the venture are expected to decide by
the end of this year on whether they want to invest in the
project or pull out, after the Romanian state said it plans to
lower its majority stake because of lack of funding.  Enel has expressed interest in buying the Romanian
government’s minority stakes in the power company’s local units,
Zito said.  Government Shuffle  Former Economy Minister Adriean Videanu said the government
wants to sell its minority holdings in the Romanian units of
E.ON AG and Enel to raise cash for investments. Videanu was
replaced by  Ion Ariton  as minister after a Cabinet reshuffle on
Sept. 22.  “We have expressed interest to the government in case they
want to sell that we would be willing to talk about that, we
have started talking,” Zito said, adding that he can’t comment
about the timing because of the government shuffle. “The new
minister has to get information and his own ideas before he
starts doing anything else in this regard.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Irina Savu  in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez in Prague at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  