-- Apollo Said to Bid for $6 Billion of Life Policies From KBC
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2010-10-08T17:29:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/leon-black-s-apollo-said-to-bid-for-6-billion-of-life-policies-from-kbc.html
Apollo Global Management LLC , the
private-equity firm founded by  Leon Black , is bidding on life
insurance policies with a combined face value of $6 billion held
by Belgian bank  KBC Groep NV , according to two people with
knowledge of the talks.  The firm is seeking $525 million from investors to acquire
policies and pay the premiums on the contracts, which will
distribute cash to the buyers when the insured individuals
die, said one of the people, who asked not to be identified
because the bidding is private. The Oregon Investment Council’s
staff recommended committing  $100 million  to the fund, according
the state pension plan’s website.  Policies were for sale at “distressed pricing” in the so-
called life-settlements market, according to a document included
in Oregon’s public meeting material on Sept. 29. European
regulators are encouraging banks to divest their non-core
assets, which include holdings such as life-settlement
portfolios, according to the presentation.  “A large European bank is a motivated seller of its life-
settlements portfolio,” according to the document on the Oregon
Investment Council’s website. “Apollo believes it will acquire
the portfolio at an attractive distressed value.”  Apollo joins rival buyout firms in seeking to expand beyond
traditional buyouts as private-equity dealmaking is down about
80 percent from its peak in the second quarter of 2007, when
$209 billion of deals were announced. The firm built a life
reinsurance business, Athene Life Re Ltd., to negotiate the
purchase of annuity policies.  Viviane Huybrecht , a spokeswoman for KBC, and  Charles Zehren , an outside spokesman for Apollo, declined to comment.  Life Reinsurance  Apollo reported $1.2 billion in assets under management in
its life reinsurance asset management business, which oversees
investments for Athene Life and other similar companies, as of
June 30, according to a filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission. The company said in a prior filing the figure was
more than $800 million at the end of 2009.  KBC is selling units as it seeks to raise funds to repay 7
billion euros ($9.7 billion) of state aid. The company agreed in
May to sell KBL European Private Bankers SA for 1.35 billion
euros to India’s Hinduja Group.  ‘They’re Going to Win’  Life-settlement investors “are selling because they ran
out of money to maintain the premiums,” said Paul Siegert,
chief executive officer of  Insurance Studies Institute , the
Keystone, Colorado-based, non-profit research group. Buyers are
“willing to put up the money to keep those premiums paid, and
they’re going to win” when benefits are collected, he said.  Investors bet on life expectancies by purchasing insurance
from policyholders who are seeking cash payments before death.
The policies may then be sold in the secondary market, which was
“sluggish” in 2008 and last year, according to an Apollo slide
on the Oregon website.  Life policies that changed hands in 2008 had a face value
of about $11.8 billion, compared with $12.2 billion in 2007,
according to a report last year by Hartford, Connecticut-based
asset management firm  Conning & Co.   To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cristina Alesci  in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  