-- Leonard Green, M Resort Founders Said to Join in Las Vegas Property Bid
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s   a n d   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r
-- 2010-10-08T01:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/leonard-green-m-resort-founders-marnells-said-to-join-in-bid.html
Leonard Green & Partners LP and the M
Resort Spa Casino’s founding Marnell family have joined in an
offer to buy the Las Vegas property from lender  Lloyds Banking
Group Plc , according to people with knowledge of the situation.  Penn National Gaming Inc.  also has placed a final bid for
the 390-room resort after multiple auction rounds, said the
people, who sought anonymity because the talks are private.  The resort is set to be sold for a fraction of its cost,
said one of the people. It was designed and built by CEO Anthony
Marnell III and his father, construction magnate  Tony Marnell II , for $1 billion, and opened amid 2009’s record gambling slump
in Las Vegas. The M owes about $700 million to HBOS Plc,
formerly the Bank of Scotland, now part of London-based Lloyds.  Representatives of Lloyds and Blackstone Group LP, which is
advising on the sale, declined to comment. A spokesman for
Leonard Green didn’t respond to a request for comment.  “While Penn maintains interest in establishing a presence
in Las Vegas, the company doesn’t comment on rumor or
speculation,”  Joe Jaffoni , a Penn spokesman, said in a
telephone interview.  Penn National, based in Wyomissing, Pennsylvania, operates
23  casinos  and racetracks. Chief Executive Officer  Peter Carlino 
has said he wants to acquire a Las Vegas casino and that the
company is looking at most U.S. gaming assets that come up for
sale.  South of Strip  Leonard Green & Partners, a Los Angeles-based investment
firm, manages about $9 billion of equity capital, according to
its website. Its investments include fitness club operator
Equinox and  Whole Foods Market Inc.   The Marnells’ Marnell Cos. construction company erected
resorts including Rio, Bellagio and Caesars Palace, and opened M
Resort in the midst of record gambling and convention declines
in Las Vegas.  The property is located away from the heart of the Las
Vegas Strip, about 10 miles south of the Mandalay Bay casino on
Las Vegas Boulevard. It is surrounded by planned housing
communities that haven’t been developed beyond sandy
subdivisions since Nevada home prices plunged.  Sprawling Pool  M Resort includes 92,000 square feet of casino floor, seven
restaurants, six bars, 60,000 square feet of conference space, a
23,000-square-foot spa and sprawling pool with an entertainment
piazza for concerts, according to its  website .  Lloyds is winding down or selling HBOS-owned assets at a
loss since agreeing to acquire Britain’s largest mortgage lender
in September 2008. The acquisition, encouraged by the U.K.
government, left Lloyds with 20 billion pounds of losses last
year alone. Through a 17 billion-pound ($27 billion) state
bailout, the government holds a 41 percent stake in the bank.  In mid-2009,  MGM Resorts International , the biggest casino
operator on the Strip, wrote off a $160 million loan to the M
Resort that it has the right to convert to half ownership.  MGM Resorts booked a $176 million charge, cutting the note
and accumulated interest value to zero “based on our review of
the operating results” and reduced cash-flow projections,
according to a regulatory filing by the Las Vegas-based company.  Las Vegas is among the markets hit hardest by the housing
price collapse and the economic effects of the 2008 financial
crisis. Home prices in the area fell 57 percent through July
from an August 2006 peak, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller
Single Family Home Resale Home Price  Index .  Unemployment in Nevada has outpaced the rest of the country
since July 2007 after five straight years below the national
rate. The state’s  jobless rate  was 14 percent in August,
compared with 9.6 percent for all of the U.S.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Beth Jinks  in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Keehner  in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Alec McCabe at   amccabe@bloomberg.net  