-- Merchant Hedge Fund Founders Coleman, King Buy Singapore Rubber Trader
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2010-10-08T03:41:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/merchant-commodity-fund-founders-coleman-king-buy-global-rubber-trader.html
Michael Coleman , who co-manages the
$1.3 billion  Merchant Commodity Fund , and his partner  Doug King 
have bought a stake in a Singapore-based rubber trader, which
had sales of about $1 billion last year.  The two former Cargill Inc. traders control a company
called Kincol Pte Ltd., which purchased 60 percent of  RCMA
Commodities Asia Pte Ltd. , Coleman, 49, and King, 43, said in
separate interviews yesterday.  Chris Pardey , also a former
Cargill trader, is a shareholder in Kincol and becomes chief
executive officer of RCMA, they said.  The Merchant Commodity Fund, which invests in agriculture
and energy, returned 12.7 percent in September and is heading
for its seventh straight annual gain since starting in 2004,
according to three people with direct knowledge of the matter.
Rubber, used in tires, jumped 52 percent in the past year on the
Tokyo Commodity Exchange as demand led by China, the top
consumer, outpaced supply from Thailand, Indonesia and Malaysia.  “With China’s growth in vehicles and infrastructure
requirements, rubber will be a critical commodity,” Zug,
Switzerland-based King said. “We see it as strategic.”  The purchase was a personal one, and not related to the
fund, Coleman and King said, declining to say how much they paid.  The acquisition gives the two fund managers access to
supply, demand and logistics in the global rubber trade as RCMA
operates in China and the U.S. The firm also has an office in
the Netherlands and provides warehousing and transport services,
according to its website.  Trading Roots  Kincol has an agreement to buy the balance of RCMA “over
the course of the next few years,” Coleman said. The stake was
bought from  Oei Hong Bie , whom Coleman has known for 26 years
since he first came to Singapore, he said. Oei continues to hold
“a significant stake” in the trading firm, its website said.  Pardey left Barclays Capital earlier this year where he was
global head of agricultural products, coal and freight. RCMA has
more than 70 staff, Coleman said.  “Our ambition is to build a strong commodity trading/
supply-chain management company, not limited to agriculture,”
said Coleman, who was head of global rubber trading at Cargill.
“Our roots are in physical commodity trading,” he said. King
was Cargill’s head of global petroleum trading and ran U.K.
grain trading.  The Merchant Commodity Fund managed $1.3 billion at the end
of September, King said. The fund’s gain last month took this
year’s return after deduction of fees to 7.5 percent, according
to the three people with knowledge of the numbers.  Rubber futures in Tokyo dropped 0.7 percent to 321.9 yen a
kilogram ($3,912 a metric ton) as of 12:20 p.m. local time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chanyaporn Chanjaroen  in Singapore at 
 Cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  