-- Essar Energy May Buy Overseas Refinery to Boost Gasoline Sales from India
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2010-10-08T05:05:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/essar-energy-may-buy-overseas-refinery-to-boost-gasoline-sales-from-india.html
Essar Energy Plc , India’s second-
largest non-state refiner, may buy a refinery or storage
facilities overseas to help boost exports of cleaner-burning
fuels to be produced when its west coast plant is expanded.  The capacity increase at Essar’s Vadinar refinery, slated
to finish next year, will enable the production of Euro IV and
Euro V-standard gasoline and diesel for export, Chief Financial
Officer  P. Sampath  said in an interview in Mumbai yesterday.  “We’ll look at opportunities to take acquisition interests
in any form to place these products in international markets,”
Sampath said. “It can be buying some tankages, it can be buying
a refinery elsewhere if it’s available cheaper.”  Essar Oil Ltd. , a unit of London-listed Essar Energy,
started talks last year to buy three refineries in Germany and
the U.K. from  Royal Dutch Shell Plc , which is seeking to reduce
costs and cut spending after the global recession. The talks are
continuing, Sampath said, declining to comment further.  Shell said Aug. 20 it agreed to sell the 90,000 barrel-a-
day Heide refinery in Germany to U.K. private equity firm Klesch
& Co. Ltd.  The Vadinar refinery, located in Gujarat state, will
increase capacity by 29 percent to 18 million metric tons a year
by the end of 2011, according to Essar Energy’s  website .  Sampath said Essar Energy may also increase gasoline
exports from Vadinar to East Africa, where the company and
Kenya’s government own equal stakes in Kenya Petroleum Refinery
Ltd., which operates a facility at Mombasa. The plant, the only
refinery in East Africa, currently processes 1.6 million tons a
year and supplies a region with demand of as much as 7 million
tons a year, he said.  The Mombasa plant processes less than its full capacity of
4 million tons a year due to lack of investment in maintenance
and upgrading, according to Essar Energy’s website.  Euro IV and Euro V fuels meet stricter emission standards.
The Euro IV standard specifies a maximum of 50 parts per million
of sulfur in diesel, while the Euro V grade has a maximum of 10
parts per million, according to the United Nations Environment
Program  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Natalie Obiko Pearson  in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at   crussell7@bloomberg.net . 