-- EU Bankers May Get 25% of Bonuses in Immediate Cash
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2010-10-08T16:05:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/eu-bankers-may-get-25-of-bonuses-in-immediate-cash-payouts-cebs-says.html
Bankers may get a quarter of their
bonuses in immediate monetary payouts under rules proposed by
European Union regulators, which would allow as much as half of
overall awards to be paid in cash rather than shares.  At least half of each segment of the bonus must be deferred
for three years or longer, the  Committee of European Banking
Supervisors  said in an e-mailed statement today. CEBS chaired a
meeting of supervisors from the 27 EU member states in London.  The EU is implementing rules on bonuses as part of a range
of measures to rein in the risk taking blamed for causing the
worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. Some national
regulators, including the U.K. Financial Services Authority, had
sought to interpret EU rules in a way that would allow cash
bonuses of as much as half the overall award.  “The CEBS guidance makes the European regulation of
banking pay among the most stringent,”  Jon Terry , partner at
PricewaterhouseCoopers, said in an e-mailed statement. “This
will be a huge disappointment to the European banking
industry.”  The “most senior staff” may have to keep shares given as
part of their bonus for an additional length of time beyond the
deferral period, CEBS said in today’s report. Banks were given
until Nov. 8 to respond to the plan.  “We must not move away from clear commitments made,” in
laws agreed to by the European Parliament and member states
earlier this year,  Chantal Hughes , spokeswoman for the European
Commission, said in an e-mailed statement.  Global Level  Workers at subsidiaries of European banks outside of the
region will also be subject to the bonus rules. Staff “will not
be able to bypass the remuneration requirements by becoming
employees of an offshore or non-regulated entity of the group
while still performing services and duties for EU-based
institutions,” CEBS said.  Without an agreement on bonuses at a global level “the
result will be significant difficulties for businesses in Europe
and for the many hundreds of thousands of jobs that depend on
the financial services industry,”  Angela Knight , chief
executive of the  British Bankers’ Association , said in an e-
mailed statement.  “We need to look across the Atlantic to the U.S., and east
towards Asia, to ensure changes are imposed sensibly
everywhere,” Knight said.  U.K. Banks  Britain’s five biggest banks including  Barclays Plc  and
 HSBC Holdings Plc , agreed in September 2009 to adopt a program
to introduce certain restrictions on bonuses proposed by the
Group of 20 nations. As much as 60 percent of such compensation
is deferred over three years, with at least half paid in shares,
under the agreement.  “It is time to fundamentally change the bonus culture that
contributed to this crisis,”  Arlene McCarthy , a U.K. member of
the  European Parliament  who sponsored the bonus rules, said in
an e-mailed statement.  The U.K. FSA has proposed expanding the firms covered by
its rules on bonuses from 27 banks to 2,500 firms including
building societies and hedge funds, and will hold meetings with
fund managers to determine how to make sure the national limits
are in line with the EU measures.  CEBS’ recommendations may apply to fewer hedge-fund
managers than previously thought, PwC’s Terry said, making the
FSA’s own plans “reasonably manageable.”  To reduce the compensation that promotes excessive risk
taking regulators can either “increase the downside risk for
bankers or limit the upside,” Sony Kapoor, managing director of
policy think-tank Redefine Europe, said in an e-mailed
statement. “Since we are not about to start hanging bankers
again, the only realistic option is to cap bonuses.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Moshinsky  in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 