-- European Stocks Advance as Investors Speculate on Central Bank Stimulus
-- B y   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2010-10-08T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/european-stocks-advance-for-first-week-in-four-as-actelion-demag-surge.html
European stocks  rose the most in four
weeks as investors speculated that central banks may follow the
Bank of Japan in providing more aid to stimulate their
economies.  Actelion Ltd. surged 23 percent, climbing the most in the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index, as the Wall Street Journal reported that
the Swiss biotechnology company may sell itself. Greek banks
rose as Moody’s Investors Service said it’s impressed with the
nation’s efforts to cut its budget deficit. Lanxess AG and
Rhodia SA led chemicals stocks higher.  The  Stoxx 600  rose 1.2 percent to 262.27 this past week,
taking this year’s gain to 3.3 percent and the increase from its
2010 low in May to 13 percent as concern eased that the region’s
sovereign-debt crisis and slowing growth in China and the U.S.
will curb corporate profits.  “Central banks keep on with their quantitative policy,
which is needed to avoid a collapse,” said  Giorgio Mascherone ,
chief investment officer at Deutsche Bank AG in Milan. “As that
is not enough in guaranteeing a recovery, it will be useful to
understand whether the Group of Seven ministers will undertake
actions to cool down volatility in the currency market.”  The unexpected decision by the Japanese central bank on
Oct. 5 to drop its interest rate to “virtually zero” and
expand its balance sheet follows the U.S. Federal Reserve’s move
toward more unconventional easing.  G-7 Meeting  The G-7 ministers gathered yesterday in Washington at the
International Monetary Fund’s annual meeting. Canadian Finance
Minister  Jim Flaherty , who chairs the meeting, said before the
meeting that “there are concerns about interventions in
currency markets” and that he’s “sure” the issue would be
discussed.  In the U.S., reports showed that factory orders dropped
more than forecast in August and the world’s largest economy
lost more jobs than estimated in September, while  U.S. service
industries  expanded more than predicted by economists.  In Europe, reports showed that U.K. house prices fell by a
record amount in September and German factory orders increased
at almost four times the pace economists that forecast in
August, according to the Economy Ministry in Berlin.  National benchmark indexes rose in all of the 18 western
European markets. Germany’s DAX Index gained 1.3 percent, while
the U.K.’s  FTSE 100 Index  increased 1.2 percent. France’s CAC 40
Index advanced 1.9 percent.  Actelion Surges  Actelion  soared 23 percent as the company was reported to
have formed a committee of board members to evaluate strategic
alternatives, including a sale. The directors have hired a
financial adviser, the Wall Street Journal newspaper said,
citing unidentified people familiar with the matter. Bristol-
Myers Squibb Co., Roche Holding AG, GlaxoSmithKline Plc and
Amgen Inc. could bid for the company, the Journal said.  Man Group Plc  and  Demag Cranes AG  also climbed as investors
speculated that they would receive takeover bids. Man, the
hedge-fund manager that’s buying GLG Partners Inc., rallied 16
percent following speculation that an unidentified U.S. bank may
make an offer for the firm.  Demag Cranes surged 30 percent as the Konecranes Oyj of
Finland said that it approached the German company on Sept. 8 to
discuss a possible takeover. Demag’s management rejected
Konecranes’ request for talks, according to a statement from the
Finnish company.  Greek Banks Gain  Alpha Bank SA  jumped 16 percent, while  National Bank of
Greece SA , Greece’s biggest lender, and  EFG Eurobank Ergasias
SA , the country’s second-largest, jumped 7.6 percent and 15
percent, respectively. Piraeus Bank SA surged 9.6 percent.
Moody’s said on Oct. 5 that it’s impressed with Greece’s efforts
to reform its finances, just three months after cutting the
nation’s credit rating to junk as Greece’s government struggled
to rein in the euro region’s second-biggest budget deficit. The
risk to the country’s sovereign grade “is to the upside” if
the reforms continue,  Anthony Thomas , a London-based senior
analyst at the ratings company, said.  Chemicals were the best-performing industry in Europe, with
 Lanxess  and Rhodia increasing 11 percent and 8.4 percent,
respectively. Citigroup Inc. lifted its recommendation on
Lanxess to “buy” from “hold” because “end market demand is
expected to remain strong, emerging markets are booming and
butadiene supply shortage ensures pricing power for the
foreseeable future.”  Rhodia Advances  On Oct. 4,  Rhodia  forecast that it will generate 1 billion
euros of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization in three to five years.  Berenberg Bank lifted its price estimate to 21 euros from
19 euros to incorporate the new targets. The brokerage said in a
note that “Rhodia can leverage its cost position and grow its
portfolio.”  Autonomy Corp. , fell more than any other stock in the Stoxx
600, sinking 18 percent as the software company lowered its
forecast for full-year revenue by about 3 percent and predicted
its annual sales will increase by 17 percent.  Halfords Plc  plummeted 9.9 percent as the U.K.’s largest
retailer of car parts and bicycles said sales at stores open
more than a year fell 4.1 percent in the company’s fiscal first
half.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 