-- Bank of America, Hevesi, Zurich in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2010-10-08T12:31:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/hevesi-zurich-lehman-symphony-capital-aig-in-court-news.html
(Corrects reference to relationship between Symphony
Capital Partners and Symphony International Holdings.)  A former  Bank of America Corp. 
computer programmer was accused in a lawsuit by the bank of
stealing 21 confidential files the day before he was to be
fired.  Rao Chalasani e-mailed the files to himself the night
before the company was to announce it was firing 400 people,
including him, Bank of America said in a complaint filed
yesterday in federal court in Manhattan. Chalasani worked in New
York for the bank’s global markets portfolio management group,
according to the complaint.  “It appears that defendant stole key documents from the
company with the intent of causing harm to Bank of America’s
business and reputation,” the bank said.  Bank of America  is seeking a court order requiring
Chalasani to return the files, plus unspecified damages. The
files included profit-and-loss figures, current securities
trading positions and company risk assessments, according to the
bank.  Chalasani didn’t return a voice-mail message left yesterday
at his home in  New Jersey .  On Sept. 30, as part of a security review of large files
sent by  employees  outside the company, Bank of America
discovered that on Sept. 20 at 9:32 p.m., the night before the
firings were to be announced, Chalasani sent the 21 files from
his company e-mail address to a personal address, the bank
claimed.  The case is Banc of America Securities LLC v. Chalasani,
1:10-CV-7681, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Verdicts/Settlement  Ex-New York Comptroller Pleads Guilty in Pension Probe  Former New York Comptroller  Alan Hevesi  pleaded guilty to a
felony corruption charge in Attorney General  Andrew Cuomo ’s
probe of “pay to play” at the state pension fund he managed
from 2003 to 2006.  Hevesi, 69, admitted yesterday to a second-degree charge of
receiving reward for official misconduct before Justice Lewis
Bart Stone in state Supreme Court in Manhattan.  Hevesi said in court that he gave preferential treatment to
Markstone Capital Partners, approving $250 million in pension
fund investments in exchange for almost $1 million in gifts,
including $75,000 in travel expenses, $380,000 in sham
consulting fees for a lobbyist, and more than $500,000 in
campaign contributions.  “I deeply regret my conduct, and I sincerely and deeply
apologize to the people of the state of New York, the court and
my family,” Hevesi said.  Hevesi, a Democrat, agreed to cooperate in Cuomo’s probe
and the judge said he may be sentenced to 1 1/3 years to 4 years
in prison or as little as no time at all. Sentencing is set for
Dec. 16. Stone freed Hevesi on his own recognizance.  Henry “Hank” Morris, Hevesi’s former top political
consultant, is awaiting trial on charges he corrupted the
investment process to benefit money managers who made campaign
contributions and politically connected placement agents who
received lucrative fees, including himself.  Hevesi said yesterday he knew Morris was “a paid placement
agent in connection with Common Retirement Fund investments”
and that Morris steered fund investments “to friends and
political associates.”  In all, about $5 billion of the New York state pension
fund’s $9.5 billion in alternative investments made in the
2003-2007 period were tainted by kickbacks, according to the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, which is also
investigating.  For more, click here.  Zurich Will Pay $455 Million in Farmers Settlement  Zurich Financial Services AG (ZURN) , Switzerland’s largest
insurer, will pay $455 million to settle a U.S. class-action
lawsuit related to its Farmers Group unit and incur attorneys’
fees of as much as $90 million.  The settlement will cut net income by $295 million in the
third quarter, the Zurich-based company said yesterday in a
 statement . Total post-tax charges related to the settlement will
cut shareholders’ equity by about 2.40 Swiss francs ($2.49) a
share, the insurer said.  The settlement will resolve all claims, dating back to
1999, in an August 2003 lawsuit that challenged management
services fees paid by the Farmers Exchanges to Farmers Group
Inc., a unit of Zurich Financial. As many as 13 million
policyholders may qualify for an average payout of about $35,
the company said.  “It is bad news of course, but frankly it is part of the
business when being active in a market like the U.S.,” Marc
Effgen, a London-based analyst with Helvea commented via e-mail.  The company started a mediation process late last year,
leading to yesterday’s settlement, Zurich Financial Chief
Executive Officer Martin Senn said on a conference call
yesterday.  For more, click here.  Lehman U.K. Unit Loses $1.1 Billion Suit Against Other Unit  A Frankfurt court yesterday rejected an 802 million-euros
($1.1 billion) claim Lehman Brothers International Europe, the
bank’s London-based unit, made against Lehman Brothers Bankhaus
AG in Germany.  The Frankfurt Regional Court issued its ruling in the case
yesterday without specifying its reasons, Joachim Kuehne, a
lawyer for the administrator of Lehman Brothers Bankhaus, said
in an interview. The ruling affirms the German affiliate’s
previous rejection of a claim by LBIE, the London-based unit of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., seeking the return of what it
said were client funds, LBIE’s U.K. administrator
PricewaterhouseCoopers said in a statement on  its website .  “The U.K. unit argued that we were holding a trust for
them,” Kuehne said. “We denied that and the court apparently
followed our arguments and fully rejected the case.”  Lehman International, which ran Lehman’s London-based prime
brokerage, had about 3,500 hedge funds and other asset managers
as clients. The U.K. unit’s failure froze at least $65 billion
in brokerage assets and clients are still trying to recover
funds.  The U.K. administrators “are disappointed with the court’s
decision and expect to make an appeal upon receipt of the
written grounds for the judgment,” PwC said in the statement.
“Without a successful appeal there is a low likelihood of any
financial recovery.”  The case is LG Frankfurt, 23 O 385/09.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Lawsuits  Ex-Prosecutor Says Rajaratnam Wiretapped After Probe Stalled  The criminal insider-trading probe of Galleon Group co-
founder  Raj Rajaratnam  had stalled before a federal judge
authorized wiretaps in March 2008, a former federal prosecutor
who worked on the case said in court.  “By the time that we applied for that wiretap in March
2008, the investigation had been going on for more than a year
and had certainly produced a lot of phone records,” said Lauren
Goldberg, the former assistant U.S. Attorney in Manhattan who
oversaw the preparation of the wiretap application. “But it’s
fair to say that we’d hit a bit of a wall and we weren’t going
to be making any progress unless we got up on a wire.”  She testified that prosecutors met at least three times
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, which had a
parallel investigation of Rajaratnam, to discuss the probe.  U.S. District Judge  Richard Holwell  in New York concluded a
four-day hearing yesterday over defense claims that the
government misled a different judge into authorizing the
wiretaps in March 2008.  Rajaratnam’s lawyers are seeking to show that U.S. agents
illegally wiretapped his communications and that the recordings
can’t be used in his criminal insider-trading trial. Holwell
said he will rule on the legality of the wiretaps, which are the
centerpiece of the biggest insider-trading prosecution in
history, after both sides submit additional briefs to the court.  The prosecution is the first in which the government has
used secret intercepts of telephone calls to investigate and
prosecute insider trading.  Rajaratnam, 53, is the central figure in an alleged
insider-trading scheme that prosecutors claim netted millions of
dollars in illegal profits. He denies wrongdoing.  In the hearing yesterday, Goldberg was asked by Assistant
U.S. Attorney Avi Weitzman about the purpose of the government’s
wiretaps.  “The principal objective here was to identify the other
individual investors in the insider-trading activity and to
obtain incriminating evidence of that activity,” she said.  Rajaratnam claims that prosecutors also misled the judge
about the background of  Roomy Khan , an ex- Intel Corp. (INTC)  executive
whose disclosures prompted the investigation. Had prosecutors
been more forthcoming about Khan’s criminal record and other
parts of her history, the wiretaps wouldn’t have been approved,
Rajaratnam’s lawyer,  John Dowd , has argued.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-cr-01184, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Moody’s Again Seeks Dismissal of Calpers’s $1 Billion Suit  Moody’s Investors Service Inc., Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings Ltd. asked a second time for dismissal of the California
Public Employees’ Retirement System’s $1 billion lawsuit over
their risk assessments.  The ratings companies claim Calpers, the biggest U.S.
pension fund, is trying to block their free-speech rights,
according to filings in state court in San Francisco.  Calpers sued the three major bond-rating companies in July
2009 for losses it said were caused by their “wildly
inaccurate” risk assessments on three structured investment
vehicles. The so-called SIVs, after receiving the companies’
highest ratings in 2006, collapsed in 2007 and 2008, according
to the Calpers complaint.  A judge refused to dismiss the case in May. The ratings
companies argued in an Oct. 4 filing that the case should be
thrown out under a California law intended to block baseless
lawsuits by parties trying to stop critics from speaking out
about issues of public concern.  “Requiring rating agencies to defend against meritless
claims brought by any of the countless and powerful investors in
SIVs” or any other issuer would “materially inhibit the free
flow of the important information the defendants provide,”
lawyers for Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s said in the filing.  The case is California Public Employees’ Retirement Systems
v.  Moody’s Corp. (MCO) , 09-490241, Superior Court of California,
County of San Francisco.  Trials/Appeals  Symphony Capital Sued by Former Fund Manager Over Bonus  Symphony Capital Partners Ltd.,  the Singapore private
equity firm that sold its stake in hospital operator Parkway
Holdings Ltd. in 2008, was sued by a former partner who claims
he was deprived of a share of the profit.  Sanjay Sehgal, who left Symphony in mid-2005 after almost
10 years with the firm, claims in his complaint he’s entitled to
a $4.4 million bonus, which includes a share of the profit from
the sale to Parkway. A hearing of the case began in Singapore’s
High Court yesterday.  Sehgal’s bonus was rightfully reduced by 60 percent,
according to the terms of his contract, Symphony, whose
management team founded London-listed  Symphony International
Holdings Ltd. (SIHL) , said in court documents. Symphony Capital had 
offered him $1.3 million, to be paid in June, ten years after 
the fund that originally invested in Parkway closed.  Symphony Chairman Anil Thadani asked Sehgal to sign a
release which had “arbitrary, unreasonable and draconian”
terms before the $1.3 million bonus would be paid, according to
the lawsuit. Sehgal refused and sought to limit the terms of the
release, he said.  Thadani and Sehgal declined to comment.  The case is Sehgal Sanjay Kumar v Symphony Capital Partners
Ltd. S625/2009 in the Singapore High Court.  For more, click here.  EU to Review Lawsuits for Antitrust, Consumer Complaints  The European Union will consider plans to allow group
lawsuits for antitrust violations and consumer complaints, while
stopping short of endorsing U.S.-style class-action complaints.  Combining individual lawsuits into a group or “collective
redress” claim would save legal costs and speed up the judicial
process, three EU commissioners said in a document obtained by
Bloomberg News.  The EU must avoid “the risk of abusive litigation” that
is built into U.S. law, according to the document to be
presented by Justice Commissioner  Viviane Reding , Antitrust
Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  and Consumer Commissioner  John
Dalli  at a meeting next week. “Such abuses have occurred in the
U.S.” because there are “strong economic incentives for
parties to bring a case to court.”  Neelie Kroes, Almunia’s predecessor as competition
commissioner, championed group lawsuits as a way to compensate
victims of illegal monopolies and cartels. Such lawsuits, in
addition to fines that can reach millions of euros, might help
victims recover losses and deter antitrust violations, she
argued.  The latest EU proposals could expand on Kroes’s plans,
allowing consumers to possibly seek damages for wider “illegal
business practices.” The document will be the basis of
discussions next week on whether to start a formal consultation
to draft legislation on the issue.  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  New Suits  Illinois Attorney General Files Suit Against Enbridge  Illinois Attorney General Lisa Madigan sued  Enbridge Energy
Partners LP (EEP)  over the company’s Sept. 9 oil leak in Romeoville,
Illinois.  Madigan and Will County prosecutor James Glasgow filed the
eight-count complaint yesterday at the Illinois courthouse in
Joliet, southwest of Chicago, seeking the imposition of fines
and financial responsibility for the cleanup.  “Enbridge must be held accountable for all of the
environmental and public health impacts of this oil spill,”
Madigan said in a statement announcing the lawsuit.  The case was filed more than three weeks after the Sept. 9
pipeline rupture spilled about 6,100 barrels of oil in
Romeoville, 30 miles (48 kilometers) southwest of Chicago. The
34-inch line runs from Superior, Wisconsin, to Griffith,
Indiana, according to Enbridge’s website.  Enbridge restarted Line 6A on Sept. 17. The company
accounts for about 11 percent of U.S. crude imports, according
to its website, and the line that ruptured can carry 670,000
barrels of oil a day, equal to more than one-third of Midwest
imports.  Gasoline in the Chicago spot market rose as much as 10
percent after the Sept. 9 closure on speculation that refiners
would have to cut output, leading to tighter supply.  Enbridge has completed “nearly all” of the action items
required by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency,  Gina
Jordan , an Enbridge spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement.
Madigan is “simply protecting the state’s interests” to ensure
that the company will follow through on cleanup, she said.  The case is People of the State of Illinois v. Enbridge
Energy LP, 10CH06266, in the Will County, Illinois, Circuit
Court,  Chancery Division  (Joliet).  Hypercom Sues VeriFone Over $290 Million Buyout Bid  Hypercom Corp., a maker of electronic-payment software,
sued rival  VeriFone Systems Inc. (PAY)  over disclosure of VeriFone’s
unsolicited $290 million cash buyout offer.  Hypercom’s board rejected San Jose, California-based
VeriFone’s $5.25-a-share bid after the largest maker of
electronic-payment equipment made its offer public Sept. 24.
Hypercom sued VeriFone in Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington
for violating a confidentiality agreement between the companies.  “Public disclosure of the fact that Hypercom may be
subject to an acquisition will irreparably damage Hypercom’s
ability to attract and retain qualified employees,” Hypercom’s
lawyers said in the Sept. 23 suit. The complaint was filed under
seal and made public Oct. 6 at the request of Bloomberg News.  VeriFone, best known for having its credit-card payment
devices in New York City taxi cabs, wants Hypercom to expand its
European business, analysts say. The offer was 24 percent higher
than Hypercom’s closing stock price on Sept. 23.  VeriFone spokesman Pete Bartolik said in a telephone
interview he wasn’t familiar with the suit and couldn’t
immediately comment. Pete Schuddekopf, a Hypercom spokesman,
didn’t immediately return a call for comment.  Hypercom is asking Chancery Judge Travis Laster to bar
VeriFone from pushing ahead with its “hostile offer,”
according to the suit.  The case is Hypercom Corp. v. VeriFone Systems Inc., 5845,
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  Remy International Sued by Investor Over Stock Swap  Remy International Inc. (RMYI) , the auto-parts maker that emerged
from bankruptcy protection in 2007, was sued by a shareholder
challenging a planned exchange of preferred stock for common
shares.  JB Capital Partners LP, owner of an undisclosed number of
common shares, contends Pendleton, Indiana-based Remy will
wrongly dilute its holdings by the exchange, according to court
papers.  “The exchange offer is blatantly unfair” and the company
has “failed to disclose material information” concerning the
valuation process, JB lawyers say in a complaint filed yesterday
in Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington.  Remy said in a Sept. 29 statement it would provide newly
issued shares of common stock for all outstanding shares of
Series A and Series B preferred stock, at the equivalent of
$1,000 a share plus unpaid dividends. Remy valued the common
stock at about $9 a share, “$5.00 less than the price at which
Remy’s stock traded at prior to announcement,” according to
court papers.  Fred Knechtel, a spokesman for Remy, declined to
immediately comment.  The case is JB Capital Partners LP v. Remy International,
CA5874, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  Commerzbank Sued for $68 Million by QVT Hedge Fund  QVT Financial LP, a New York-based hedge fund, said it sued
 Commerzbank AG (CBK) ’s property-lending unit Eurohypo in the U.S. for
allegedly failing to pay $68 million on securities linked to two
trusts in Delaware.  Eurohypo, which raised $1.2 billion in “profit-dependant”
securities, said it suffered a loss on its balance-sheet last
year and refused to repay QVT, the hedge fund said yesterday in
a statement. The loss is irrelevant because Commerzbank agreed
to compensate its unit for any losses, QVT said.  “Having reaped the benefits associated with raising
capital from U.S. investors, the defendants now are unwilling to
live up to their obligations,” according to a copy of QVT’s
complaint, which it said was filed yesterday in state court in
Delaware.  Commerzbank, the second-biggest bank in Germany, agreed in
June 2007 to reimburse Eurohypo for its losses under a so-called
domination agreement, which allows parent companies to pool
their cash and tax benefits with subsidiaries and make
management decisions, according to QVT. The hedge fund filed a
similar lawsuit in Germany in August, according to the
statement.  Commerzbank spokesman Maximilian Bicker declined to
comment.  The case is QVT Fund v. Eurohypo Capital Funding, Delaware
Chancery Court (Wilmington).  ICBC (Asia) Executive Is Charged, Released in Bribery Case  An executive from  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China
(Asia) Ltd.  and two other people were released on bail after
being charged in a bribery case brought by Hong Kong’s
Independent Commission Against Corruption.  Derick Chan Po-fui, 50, head of the corporate banking
department, and Chan Yick-yiu, 43, former head of real estate
and finance at the bank, were charged, the anti-graft agency
said in a statement yesterday. Zeng Wei, 47, a major shareholder
of United Win Holdings Ltd., was also charged, the ICAC said.  ICBC (Asia), a unit of  Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China (601398)  Ltd., the world’s biggest lender by market value, had no
comment, spokeswoman Hilda Chow said by phone. The bank
cooperated in the investigation, code-named “Thunderbolt,” the
ICAC said. No phone number was available for United Win.  The defendants face nine charges, including one count that
alleged Derick Chan accepted bribes of HK$1 million and HK$2.3
million from Zeng to extend the due date for repayment of loans,
the ICAC said.  Chan Yick-yiu is charged with accepting bribes of
HK$500,000 and HK$2 million for helping Zeng and his companies
prepare loan proposals with the bank.  The defendants appeared in Eastern Magistracy yesterday
without entering pleas. Zeng was granted cash bail of HK$800,000
and the other two defendants HK$500,000 each. They were ordered
to surrender their travel documents and not to interfere with
prosecution witnesses.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Court News  Breyer Says U.S. Supreme Court Isn’t Pro-Business  Justice  Stephen Breyer  rejected the notion that the U.S.
Supreme Court has a pro-business slant and said the court
doesn’t rule in favor of companies any more frequently than it
has historically.  “I looked back,” he said in a Bloomberg Television
interview in which he discussed his new book. “I couldn’t find
a tremendous difference in the percentage of cases. They’ve
always done pretty well.”  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce won at least a partial victory
in 13 of the 16 cases in which it filed a brief during the court
term that concluded in June. The business trade group has won at
least half its cases every year for more than a decade.  Breyer also said that partisan politics doesn’t influence
the court’s actions, even in cases with political ramifications,
including the decision this year that allowed unlimited
corporate and union campaign spending, and the Bush v. Gore
ruling that decided the 2000 presidential election.  “I don’t see that politics,” Breyer said. “It would be
bad if it were there. And I don’t see it.”  The 72-year-old Breyer, who was appointed by Democratic
President  Bill Clinton  in 1994, serves on a court that now may
split along party lines in some high-profile cases.  The five Republican appointees all were in the majority in
the campaign finance case, known as  Citizens United  v. Federal
Election Commission.  Of the four Democratic appointees now on the court, three
were in dissent, and the fourth, Justice  Elena Kagan , had
defended the spending limits when she was the Obama
administration’s top Supreme Court advocate. Kagan joined the
court in August and took the bench this week for the start of
the new term.  For more, click here.  On the Docket  Pricewaterhouse’s AIG Settlement to Go Before Judge  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP’s 2-year-old, $97.5 million
settlement with holders of  American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
securities is set to go before a federal judge next month.  The accounting firm said in October 2008 it would
compensate the plaintiffs for their losses to avoid “enormous
litigation costs” over claims it helped AIG mislead investors.
The settlement won preliminary court approval and is scheduled
for a hearing in Manhattan on Nov. 30, law firm Labaton Sucharow
said yesterday in a statement.  An investigation by then-New York Attorney General Eliot
Spitzer and U.S. regulators triggered a $3.9 billion earnings
restatement by AIG in May 2005 and led to the ouster of  Maurice
“Hank” Greenberg, the New York-based insurer’s chief executive
officer for almost 40 years.  Plaintiffs in the proposed class-action suit, who held
shares of companies that AIG bought with its stock, include the
Ohio Public Employees Retirement System, according to court
documents.  Steven Silber, a PricewaterhouseCoopers spokesman, said he
couldn’t immediately comment. The firm said in 2008 that its
work for AIG was “in accordance with professional standards.”  The case is In re American International Group Inc.
Securities Litigation, 04-cv-08141, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net . 