-- German Exports Fell for a Second Month in August as Euro Rose
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2010-10-08T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/exports-fell-for-a-second-month-in-august-as-stronger-euro-curbed-demand.html
Exports  from Germany, Europe’s
largest economy, declined for a second month in August as a
strengthening euro and slowing global growth curbed demand.  Sales abroad , adjusted for working days and seasonal
changes, slipped 0.4 percent from July, when they fell 1.6
percent, the  Federal Statistics Office  in Wiesbaden said today.
Economists had forecast a 0.3 percent drop, according to the
median of 11 estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey .  Imports  rose
0.9 percent from July, when they fell 2.2 percent.  Germany’s economy may weaken after surging exports helped
growth accelerate to the fastest pace in two decades in the
second quarter. While  factory orders  and industrial output
jumped more than economists forecast in August, the euro’s 17
percent ascent against the dollar in past four months is making
goods less competitive abroad just as governments across the
euro region, Germany’s biggest export market, cut spending.  “Industrial output should continue to rise at a
considerable rate over the coming months,” said  Simon Junker ,
an economist at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “Still,
manufacturing won’t quite reach the pace of spring anymore.
That’s because of cooling global trade.”  German exports rose 26.8 percent in August from a year
earlier, today’s report showed. Exports to countries within the
16-member euro area increased 16.5 percent in the year while
sales to countries outside the European Union rose 40.8 percent.  ‘Positive Trend’  A stronger euro is threatening to hurt sales outside the
euro area just as the global recovery weakens. In the U.S., the
world’s largest economy, manufacturing growth eased last month.
Europe’s  services and manufacturing industries  expanded at the
slowest pace in seven months in September.  The International Monetary Fund said on Oct. 6 that it
expects the world economy to expand 4.2 percent next year
instead of a previously projected 4.3 percent. In 2010, the
economy may grow 4.8 percent, the Washington-based fund said.  With governments across the euro region cutting spending
and raising taxes to push down budget deficits, German companies
may be forced to rely on faster-growing markets in Asia to boost
sales. The IMF said earlier this week that China will help
provide a “partial offset to the weaker demand from advanced
economies.”  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG , the world’s largest maker of
luxury vehicles, said on Oct. 1 that deliveries in the third
quarter beat its forecasts, with September capping a “very
good” three-month period.  Porsche SE , the maker of the 911
sports car, said on Sept. 29 that full-year revenue jumped 18
percent and forecast that the “positive trend” would continue.  “Order books are still filling,” said  Carsten Brzeski , an
economist at ING in Brussels. “A substantial part of the
second-quarter momentum has been carried over into the second
half of the year. The German economy is heading toward its best
growth year since reunification.”  The Bundesbank forecasts German economic expansion of 3
percent in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simone Meier  in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  