-- Fast Retailing Forecasts 17% Profit Decline on Slowing Uniqlo Store Sales
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2010-10-08T10:57:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/fast-retailing-forecasts-annual-profit-will-fall-17-as-uniqlo-sales-slow.html
Fast Retailing Co. , Asia’s biggest
clothing chain operator, forecast full-year profit will fall for
the first time in four years, as it loses sales to a growing
number of competitors offering similar products.  Net income  will probably fall 17 percent to 51 billion yen
($619 million) for the 12 months ending August, the operator of
the Uniqlo chain of stores said in a statement today.  Revenue 
may grow 5 percent to 856 billion yen.  The Yamaguchi, Japan-based retailer faces increased
competition from domestic rivals such as  Aeon Co. , which have
introduced products similar to Uniqlo’s Heattech thermal
underwear range.  Fast Retailing  is expanding in overseas markets
including China to reduce reliance on Japan, where the yen’s
surge to a 15-year high against the dollar threatens the
country’s economic recovery.  “A lot depends on their success overseas, which is still
in doubt,” said  Edwin Merner , president of Atlantis Investment
Research Corp. in Tokyo, which manages about $3 billion. Major
retailers “are being hurt by the sluggish economy, continuing
deflation and depressed consumer spending,” Merner said.  Fast Retailing  fell 2.3 percent to close at 12,390 yen on
the Tokyo Stock Exchange before the earnings announcement. The
stock has slumped 29 percent this year, compared with a 7.5
percent drop for the Topix index.  “We will strengthen our basic lines,” Chief Executive
Officer  Tadashi Yanai  told reporters in Tokyo today. “We were
driven by ‘surface fashion’ too much,” he said, referring to
products that have “a meaningless design such as a shirt with a
frill attached in a meaningless part.”  Same-Store Sales  Sales at Uniqlo stores open at least a year in Japan
plunged 24.7 percent in September from a year earlier,  Fast
Retailing  said in an Oct. 4 statement. The drop is the biggest
since February 2003, when sales slipped 25.8 percent, according
to company data.  Fast Retailing ’s profit margin will worsen this fiscal
year, as “we expect to dispose of our inventory after the sales
slump,” Chief Financial Officer  Hidetsugu Onishi  said at a
press conference in Tokyo.  Uniqlo’s same-store sales in Japan may fall 4.7 percent
this fiscal year, as it expects a 9.8 percent drop in the first
half, the company said. Comparable sales grew 13.1 percent in
the corresponding year-ago period on demand for Heattech.  Ryohin Keikaku Co., operator of the Muji retail chain, cut
its profit forecast for the year to February by 22 percent to
6.89 billion yen, citing slow sales of apparel and other goods.  Heatfact, Ecoheat  Aeon  and other retailers have added more items to compete
with Fast Retailing’s  Heattech  , which has products that start
at 990 yen. Aeon aims to double sales of its Heatfact garments
to 20 million units this year, adding leggings for men, the
company said Sept. 2.  Seiyu G.K. cut prices of its Ecoheat brand by about 25
percent to between 580 yen and 980 yen for a month from Oct. 1.  Fast Retailing  forecasts sales of Heattech apparel will
rise 40 percent to 70 million units in the current fiscal year.  The retailer, which began expanding abroad in 2001 by
entering the U.K. market, opened a Uniqlo outlet in New York’s
Soho district in 2006 and across the road from the Galeries
Lafayette department store in Paris last year. It also plans to
add a store on New York’s Fifth Avenue in the second half of
2011, it said.  Yanai , who is also the company’s biggest
shareholder, reiterated that he aims to increase Uniqlo stores
in China to 1,000 within 10 years, from 54 outlets in August.  Overseas Sales, Acquisitions  Fast Retailing  expects overseas sales to overtake domestic
revenue as soon as 2014, Yanai said in March. The company aims
to boost sales to 5 trillion yen by 2020 through acquisitions
and accelerating store openings, he said last year. Yanai was
named Japan’s richest man by Forbes Asia magazine in its January
issue.  Uniqlo stores in Japan accounted for 74 percent of Fast
Retailing’s sales last fiscal year, while revenue from the
chain’s overseas outlets increased to 8.9 percent of the total,
from 5.5 percent share in the previous 12 months.  Net income  rose 24 percent for the 12 months ended August,
compared with 49.8 billion yen a year earlier, Fast Retailing
said today. Sales increased 19 percent to 814.8 billion yen.  Sales at Uniqlo stores  open at least a year in Japan rose
4.7 percent for the year ended August, compared with Fast
Retailing’s July estimate of a 4.4 percent increase. Same-store
sales strip out the effect of recently opened outlets.  Fast Retailing other brands include Princesse tam.tam,
Theory and Comptoir des Cotonniers.  The company will start to sell Comptoir des Cotonniers in
the U.S. and expand Theory in Europe and China, Yanai said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Naoko Fujimura  in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at   flongid@bloomberg.net  