-- FDIC May Seek More Than $1 Billion From Failed-Bank Executives
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2010-10-08T15:08:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/fdic-may-seek-more-than-1-billion-from-failed-bank-executives.html
The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
has authorized lawsuits against more than 50 officers and
directors of failed banks as the agency aims to recoup more than
$1 billion in losses stemming from the credit crisis.  The lawsuits were authorized during closed sessions of the
FDIC board and haven’t been made public. The agency, which has
shuttered 294 lenders since the start of 2008, has held off
court action while conducting settlement talks with executives
whose actions may have led to bank collapses, Richard Osterman,
the FDIC’s acting general counsel, said in an interview.  “We’re ready to go,” Osterman said. “We could walk into
court tomorrow and file the lawsuits.”  The FDIC, which reviews losses for every bank failure, has
brought only one case against officers or directors tied to
recent collapses -- a suit filed in July seeking $300 million in
damages from four executives of  IndyMac Bancorp Inc.   When a bank fails, the agency’s investigators take about 18
months to complete their autopsies, meaning most of the probes
stemming from the financial crisis are ongoing, Osterman said.  If FDIC investigators determine litigation is possible
early in their review process, they send letters to officers and
directors alerting them that a suit may be coming to recoup a
portion of the losses to the agency’s insurance fund.  BankUnited  One such letter was attached to a Nov. 24 motion filed by
the FDIC in the bankruptcy case of Florida’s  BankUnited Corp. 
The Nov. 5 letter, addressed to 15 bank directors and officers,
said that BankUnited “blindly made loans to borrowers who, for
the most part, were un-creditworthy, creating an unduly high
risk of inevitable failure when the housing market began to
decline.” The executives “breached their fiduciary duties,”
the letter said.  As federal receiver for failed banks, the FDIC uses its
deposit insurance fund to backstop the cost of the collapses,
selling the  bank assets  to recoup any lost money. The agency has
three years from the date of the failure to file suits seeking
compensation for a civil wrong.  The FDIC “brings suits only where they are believed to be
sound on the merits and likely to be cost-effective,” according
to an agency policy statement that dates from the savings-and-
loan crisis of the 1980s. That requires considerations of
whether an individual, if sued, has the means to pay or an
insurance policy to cover all or part of the claim.  “It doesn’t make sense to file a lawsuit if at the end of
the day you have a low chance of recovery,” Osterman said.  $1 Billion  The recently authorized lawsuits, if filed by the agency
and not settled, would claim damages of more than $1 billion,
according to FDIC spokesman  David Barr . Osterman said the goal
is to reach as many settlements as possible.  “It’s in both our interest and theirs to try and settle
this matter before it gets into the court and we get into
expensive litigation,” he said.  If the savings-and-loan crisis is any guide, more lawsuits
are coming. During that period, the FDIC sued executives from
more than 24 percent of the 1,813 lenders that failed.  “The process went on 20 years ago and is happening again
now,”  Thomas Vartanian , a partner at law firm  Dechert LLP  in
Washington, said in an interview. “This is the way it’s going
to go over the next few years as they catch up with doing these
investigations and doing claims.”  FDIC Chairman  Sheila Bair  has said 2010 will be the peak
year for failures, and the agency’s list of so-called problem
lenders suggests banks will keep collapsing at an accelerated
rate in coming months. The confidential list had 829 banks with
$403 billion in assets at the end of the second quarter.  Compensation Structure  In the IndyMac case, executives are accused of granting
loans that were unlikely to be repaid while seeking to benefit
from the bank’s compensation structure. The former employees
have denied any wrongdoing.  Lawrence Kaplan , an attorney whose firm is representing two
of the IndyMac defendants, said the paucity of cases filed to
date shows the difficulty of assigning blame for a crisis that
took down so many financial companies.  “The current crisis was caused by economic conditions that
few, if any experts, including leading federal officials, saw
coming,” said Kaplan, a lawyer at  Paul Hastings Janofsky &
Walker LLP  in Washington.  “As a result, claims that directors and officers of many
failed banks engaged in negligence lack credibility as such
claims attempt to hold those directors and officers to an
impossible standard of care,” Kaplan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Phil Mattingly  in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  