-- Fears of Global Slowdown Keeping Consumers `Selective,' Rona's Guevin Says
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2010-10-08T19:29:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/fears-of-global-slowdown-keeping-consumers-selective-rona-s-guevin-says.html
Rona Inc.  Chief Financial Officer
 Claude Guevin  said Canadians are holding back on home-
improvement purchases on signs of a sluggish global economy.  “They let us know that they want to undertake projects --
not necessarily now because they are concerned,” Guevin said in
a telephone interview today. “They are very selective in their
expenses on our sites for the last four, five months.”  The International Monetary Fund said Oct. 6 that high
unemployment, public debt and fragile banking systems pose risks
to global prosperity. Canada’s government would be able to offer
another round of stimulus if  growth  slows more than expected,
the Washington-based fund’s report said.  “It’s a deep recession, it’s a world recession, so that’s
why it will take time for a real recovery,” Guevin said.
“People are very concerned not about the Canadian economy but
about the world economy.”  Rona , the country’s biggest home-improvement retailer, will
keep looking for acquisitions if the slow recovery leads some
competitors to sell, Guevin said. This month the company agreed
to buy the distributors TruServ Canada Inc. and Don Park Limited
Partnership. “We see an opportunity for consolidation,” he
said.  High debt levels aren’t holding back consumers from making
purchases, he said. Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  said in
a Sept. 30 speech that consumer debt had risen to a record 146
percent of disposable income, a trend he said “cannot
continue.”  “I don’t think the debt level or interest rates are the
real issues in our industry,” Guevin said. “It’s much more I
would say the confidence in general.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  