-- Bullard Sees No `Obvious' Case for More Stimulus as Risks Ease
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2010-10-08T13:06:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/fed-s-bullard-says-may-not-be-obvious-case-for-stimulus-as-risks-ease.html
The chance of a renewed U.S.
recession has receded and there may not be a strong enough case
for additional stimulus, Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said.  “The risk of double-dip recession has probably receded
some in the last six to eight weeks,” Bullard said today in an
interview with CNBC. “The economy has slowed, but it hasn’t
slowed so much that it’s an obvious case to do something. A very
reasonable decision would be to say, ‘maybe we should push it
off a meeting or two and see how the data comes in.’”  The Federal Reserve is considering whether to add to its
purchases of Treasury bonds to stimulate the economy. Data today
showed the U.S. lost more jobs than forecast in September. New
York Fed President  William Dudley  and Chicago Fed President
 Charles Evans  have voiced support for more purchases, while
Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  and Dallas Fed
President  Richard Fisher  have said such actions may not work.  The dollar weakened and Treasuries advanced after the
payrolls report. The dollar fell as much as 0.7 percent to
$1.3834 per euro and was at $1.3859 as of 9:03 a.m. in New York.
It dropped below 82 yen for the first time since 1995.  The yield on the 10-year note slipped 2 basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 2.37 percent, according to BGCantor
Market Data, after erasing an earlier loss.  ‘Tough Call’  Bullard said the next Federal Reserve meeting on Nov. 2-3
will be an analysis “blizzard” and the decision will be a
“tough call.”  “I will go into the meeting with an open mind and you
don’t want to prejudge these things,” he said. While the case
for more stimulus isn’t a “slam dunk,” if the situation calls
for it, “we’ll have to take action,” he said.  The Fed said after its Sept. 21 meeting that it was
“prepared to provide additional accommodation if needed.”
Fisher, who won’t vote on policy until next year under the Fed’s
rotating system, said late yesterday that further so-called
quantitative easing “is not a done deal.”  “It’s still possible to make the case that the economy
will improve naturally on its own in 2011 and that we’ll have
faster growth” and inflation “closer to target,” Bullard
said. A “natural thing” for officials who hold that view
“would be just to say ‘Well, we’ll wait until the December
meeting,’” when we have more data, he said.  Private Jobs  Employers cut staffing by 95,000 workers after a revised
57,000 decrease in August, Labor Department figures in
Washington showed today. The median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 5,000 drop. The
unemployment rate unexpectedly held at 9.6 percent.  Private payrolls that exclude government agencies climbed
64,000, less than forecast. Bullard said the private jobs data
was “not too different” from expected.  Bullard warned in July there was a rising risk of a
Japanese-style deflation in the U.S. He said today that the
“disinflation trend” in 2010 has been “bothering” him.  The Bank of Japan this week cut its benchmark interest rate
to “virtually zero” and boosted its asset-purchase plan. In
the U.K., a split among Bank of England policy makers on whether
to foster growth or combat the threat of inflation is deepening.  ‘Small Amounts’  When asked about the size of a possible expansion of
purchases, Bullard said a “better number to think about” was
the monthly Treasury sale total of about $100 billion.  “If you sustain QE over a period of time at $100 billion a
month, you’re going to get to several hundred billion or more,”
he said. “The way I would do it is small amounts and then make
a decision at the next meeting and that will set up expectations
about a path, but then if the economy improves and things start
to go better, then you can slow down or stop.”  If the economy were really to “perk up,” the Fed could
begin to sell its bond holdings, he said.  When asked if he would follow the Bank of Japan by
diversifying purchases away from Treasuries, Bullard said that
he hadn’t heard discussions about that at the Fed. “I’d be very
reluctant myself to go in that direction,” he said.  The worst U.S. recession since the Great Depression ended
in June 2009, the National Bureau of Economic Research said on
Sept. 20. Still, the recovery is weakening. Economic growth
decelerated to an annualized 1.7 percent rate in the second
quarter from 3.7 percent in the first and 5 percent in the last
three months of 2009, according to the Commerce Department.  Bullard said that Fed chairman Ben S. Bernanke will be able
to build a consensus at the next rate-setting meeting.  “If the chairman leans one way or another, he has a
tremendous amount of support,” Bullard said. “He’ll be able to
build a consensus on the committee for whatever he wants to
do.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Matthews  in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  