-- Feinberg Firm Paid More Than $2.5 Million by BP in 3 1/2 Months
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r   a n d   L i z z i e   O ’ L e a r y
-- 2010-10-08T20:38:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/feinberg-firm-paid-more-than-2-5-million-by-bp-in-3-1-2-months.html
Kenneth Feinberg  and his law firm
have been paid more than $2.5 million in 3 1/2 months to
administer the $20 billion fund set up by  BP Plc  to compensate
victims of its oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.  The London-based oil company agreed to pay Feinberg Rozen
LLP in Washington a fee of $850,000 a month from mid-June, when
Feinberg agreed to run the claims facility, through Oct. 1,
according to a report today on the compensation by former U.S.
Attorney General  Michael Mukasey .  Feinberg, 64, who ran the fund for victims of the 9/11
attacks and was special U.S. master for executive pay, was
chosen by BP and President  Barack Obama  to compensate those
affected by the largest U.S. oil spill. Feinberg Rozen retained
Mukasey and his firm,  Debevoise & Plimpton LLP , to evaluate the
package. Mukasey said the payment was reasonable for demanding
work under scrutiny by residents, public officials and BP.  “All of the work to date has proceeded against a backdrop
of intense pressure from diverse stakeholders -- including but
by no means limited to the White House and BP -- to work
quickly,” said Mukasey, attorney general under former President
 George W. Bush .  William Brennan , a principal with consulting firm Altman
Weil Inc. in Newton Square, Pennsylvania, said the compensation
puts Feinberg Rozen on par with the top U.S. law firms where
attorneys generate $1 million or more in annual revenue.  “That’s a heck of a lot of money for any law firm,” he
said in a telephone interivew. “Considering Feinberg’s
expertise in this particular area, it’s not unreasonable that he
would charge that amount.”  Payments Continue  The $850,000 monthly payments to Feinberg’s firm will
continue through year-end and then will be reviewed, a person
familiar with the contract said today.  The money goes to seven professionals at Feinberg’s firm
and is paid by BP separately from the fund to help victims,
according to the person, who spoke on condition of anonymity
about details not spelled out in today’s report. Among those
being paid is Feinberg’s brother David, according to the report.
David Feinberg is listed on the firm’s  website  as director of
special projects.  The payments from BP help offset the “significant
distortion” the project is causing to the Feinberg firm’s
business, Mukasey said in the report today. Feinberg Rozen has
turned away three mediation requests since June, according to
the report.  Four attorneys spent 2,777 hours from June 16 to Oct. 4
working on the claims fund, according to the report. The firm
hired two attorneys to help handle the work.  $1.14 Billion Paid  Feinberg has awarded $1.14 billion in claims as of Oct. 7
after criticism from the Justice Department, Florida Attorney
General  Bill McCollum  and Gulf Coast businesses that the process
was moving too slowly at first.  Feinberg initially declined to disclose his salary. He
later told reporters he would do so as part of his effort to
make the claims process as transparent as possible and reassure
critics.  Representative  Michael Burgess , a Texas Republican,
questioned during a House Energy Committee hearing on July 27
whether Feinberg could operate independently given that he was
being paid by BP.  “I don’t see any difficulty in maintaining my
independence,” Feinberg said at the hearing. “I certainly do
see the implication of your question, which is there could be a
perception that since BP is paying, shouldn’t we have more
transparency or full disclosure?  And I agree with that.”  BP Employment  The compensation disclosure underscores that Feinberg is an
employee of BP, raising “concerns about the management of the
fund,” said  Tyson Slocum , director of energy programs for
Public Citizen, an advocacy group in Washington, said in a phone
interview today.  While Feinberg should be commended for his past work on the
9/11 fund and as the Treasury Department’s special master for
executive compensation, he still hasn’t disclosed how much he is
making personally from running the BP fund, he said.  “We haven’t gotten the answers that everyone has been
promised for months,” Slocum said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jim Snyder  in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net ;
 Lizzie O’Leary  in Washington at 
 loleary2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 