-- Ford, Dealers Say Credit Access Helping Recovery in Auto Sales
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2010-10-08T17:18:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/ford-dealers-say-credit-access-helping-recovery-in-auto-sales.html
New-vehicle buyers are having an
easier time getting credit, signaling U.S. auto sales may
continue to accelerate after last month reaching the  fastest
pace  since the government’s “cash for clunkers” program.  Federal Reserve data shows banks began easing consumer-
lending standards in July, and the Fed’s loan facility program
rejuvenated the market for securitized auto debt, said  Ellen Hughes-Cromwick , Ford’s chief economist. Data from CNW Research
shows improved sales for buyers with weaker credit scores.  “Credit has begun to ease for automotive in general,”
Hughes-Cromwick said today in a telephone interview. “We should
see consumer credit begin to evidence some recovery, but it is a
slow go. I don’t think anybody is baking in some sizable
cyclical uplift in the next 12 to 18 months.”  Auto retailers including  Group 1 Automotive Inc.  and CarMax
Inc. have said credit is less of a setback now after tighter
lending helped slow U.S. auto sales to 10.4 million deliveries
last year, the lowest since 1982. Sales in September rose to a
seasonally adjusted annual rate of 11.8 million, the fastest
pace since August 2009, according to Autodata Corp.  That’s still less than the 16.8 million annual average from
2000 to 2007, as Americans defer big-ticket purchases amid weak
consumer confidence and high joblessness. Payrolls fell by
95,000 workers last month, more than forecast in a Bloomberg
survey of economists, as the unemployment rate held at 9.6
percent, according to Labor Department figures released today.  “Credit is certainly available to meet the consumer’s
needs,”  Peter DeLongchamps , a vice president at Houston-based
Group 1 Automotive, said in a telephone interview. “For current
sales levels to increase, we need additional showroom traffic.”  Subprime Share Rises  The share of new-vehicle sales to buyers with subprime
credit rose to 9.9 percent in September, the highest since
February 2008, according to consulting firm  CNW Research .  Subprime buyers represented 6.8 percent of the new-vehicle
market through the first nine months of the year, according to
CNW. That’s up from 5.7 percent last year, while short of the
14 percent share in 2006, the data shows.  CNW, based in Bandon, Oregon, defines subprime borrowers as
having a FICO score below 619.  Fair Isaac Corp. ’s FICO scores
use variables including the number of credit inquiries and
missed payments.  Ford Motor Credit Co., the finance arm of the Dearborn,
Michigan-based automaker, sold $500 million of bonds backed by
dealer payments last month and had a similar offering worth
$1.13 billion in March with help from the Fed’s Term Asset-
Backed Securities Loan Facility.  ‘Brought Confidence’  The program, started in March 2009 to help revive the
market for securities backed by consumer-loan payments,
encouraged more offerings and narrowed spreads, Hughes-Cromwick
said. That allowed for companies to more cheaply fund automotive
purchases, including leases, as well as loans that car dealers
use to buy inventory.  “It helped investors that were still in a dicey, risk-
pricing mindset,” she said. “That facility brought confidence
and more rationality back to the market.”  The Fed’s quarterly  survey  of senior loan officers released
Aug. 16 showed banks were more willing to make consumer loans
during the previous three months. The survey includes 57 U.S.
banks with about $7 trillion in assets and doesn’t identify
respondents.  General Motors Co. , the largest U.S. automaker, sees “some
significant upside” to sales as credit “loosens up,”  Don Johnson , GM’s vice president of U.S. sales, told analysts and
reporters during an Oct. 1 conference call.  AmeriCredit Acquisition  September deliveries at GM, which completed its acquisition
of subprime lender AmeriCredit Corp. last week, climbed
11 percent from a year earlier to 173,155, the Detroit-based
company said.  “The credit freeze has hampered sales in the industry,”
Johnson said. “That’s one of the reasons why it was so
important for us to put this relationship together with
AmeriCredit.” It began operating as General Motors Financial
Co. effective Oct. 1 and today Standard & Poor’s Ratings
Services put it on credit watch with positive implications.  New-vehicle buyers received an average annual percentage
rate of 5.23 percent from Ford in September, from 5.07 percent
in August, according to Edmunds.com. The rate among GM buyers
rose to 5.25 percent from 5.23 percent, the Santa Monica,
California-based firm said.  “The slight increase in rates suggests that credit is
loosening a touch, since less-qualified buyers are getting loans
and bringing up the average,” Ivan Drury, a Edmunds analyst,
said in an e-mail.  Dealers See It  CarMax, the auto retailer based in Richmond, Virginia, said
on a Sept. 22 conference call that lenders showed an increased
willingness to expand credit.  “We are about back to where we were pre-recession in terms
of credit availability,” CarMax Chief Executive Officer  Tom Folliard  said on the call to discuss second-quarter earnings,
which beat analysts’ average estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Credit conditions still aren’t like the “old days” where
car shoppers could buy without a down payment,  John Casesa ,
managing partner at New York-based Casesa & Co., said in an Oct.
1 interview on Bloomberg Television’s “InsideTrack.”  Still, “credit is coming back,” he said, “and that’s a
factor in causing demand to pick up a bit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Craig Trudell  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 