-- Louisiana, Texas and Florida Lawyers to Lead BP Oil-Spill Cases
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   A l l e n   M .   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 2010-10-09T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/four-lawyers-named-to-lead-multibillion-dollar-bp-gulf-spill-litigation.html
A federal judge appointed four
lawyers from three states to lead a 15-member steering committee
for thousands of people and businesses suing over the  BP Plc  oil
spill in the Gulf of Mexico.  The four-member executive committee appointed by U.S.
District Judge  Carl Barbier  in New Orleans is made up of
attorneys from Louisiana, Texas and Florida. Brian H. Barr of
Pensacola, Florida,  Scott Summy  of Dallas, James Roy of
Layafette, Louisiana, and  Stephen Herman  of New Orleans will
“coordinate the responsibilities” of the larger plaintiffs’
steering committee representing hundreds of lawyers involved in
cases against BP and other companies including  Halliburton Co. 
and  Transocean Ltd.   Barbier is overseeing more than 400 consolidated lawsuits
brought by fishing, tourism and real estate interests claiming
harm from the largest marine oil spill in U.S. history. He
announced the selections yesterday after reviewing applications
from more than 100 attorneys.  BP has accepted responsibility for damage caused by about
4.1 million barrels of crude oil released off the Louisiana
coast from a well ruptured by the explosion and sinking of
Transocean’s Deepwater Horizon drilling rig in April. Most of
the lawsuits are proposed class actions against BP, Transocean
and other companies involved in drilling the well.  They include Halliburton Energy Services Ltd, which
provided well-cementing services, and Cameron International
Corp., which made the blow-out prevention equipment. BP’s
minority partners in the well, Anadarko Petroleum Corp. and
Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., are also defendants in many of the
lawsuits.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig “Deepwater
Horizon” in the Gulf of Mexico, on April 20, 2010. MDL-2179,
U.S. District Courts, Eastern District of Louisiana (New
Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Allen Johnson in New Orleans at  allenmct@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 