-- Swiss Franc Strengthens Versus Euro and Dollar After U.S. Payrolls Tumble
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2010-10-08T15:06:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/franc-weakens-versus-euro-for-fourth-week-after-ecb-spurns-further-easing.html
The franc capped weekly gains against
the euro and dollar after a report showed the U.S. lost more
jobs than forecast last month, adding to concern the recovery is
slowing and stoking demand for the Swiss currency as a haven.  The franc extended its advance for a fourth week against
the dollar on speculation more asset purchases from the Federal
Reserve may follow, driving down the greenback. U.S. employers
cut staffing by 95,000 workers, Labor Department figures in
Washington showed today, above the median estimate of a 5,000
drop from economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “Dollar-Swiss is still largely driven by quantitative-
easing expectations,” said  Manuel Oliveri , a foreign-exchange
strategist in Zurich at UBS AG, the nation’s largest bank.
“Uncertainty will also keep the Swiss in demand as a safe haven
asset versus the euro.”  The Swiss currency has appreciated 0.3 percent against the
euro since Oct. 1, breaking a three-week streak of declines. It
traded 0.5 percent stronger at 1.3389 centimes as of 3:49 p.m.
in London. It was 0.6 percent stronger at 96.05 centimes per
dollar, after yesterday strengthening to 95.55 centimes, the
third record in as many days, according to Bloomberg data. The
currency has appreciated 1.3 percent against the greenback this
week and 5.8 percent in the past four weeks.  The European Central Bank signaled no intention to loosen
monetary policy yesterday. President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
there’s “absolutely no change” in the central bank’s stance
from a month ago and that it will continue to gradually phase
out its non-standard liquidity measures.  Swiss Jobless Rate  “More than ever, exchange rates should reflect economic
fundamentals,” Trichet said yesterday after holding the ECB’s
benchmark rate at 1 percent. “Excess volatility and disorderly
moves have adverse implications for economic and financial
stability.”  Concern the Federal Reserve will expand its purchases of
government debt deepened after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  last
week said more monetary easing has “the ability to ease
financial conditions.”  Quantitative-easing expectations are now fully priced in
for the dollar, Oliveri said.  The Swiss  jobless rate  fell to the lowest in more than a
year in September as a strengthening economy prompted companies
to increase their workforce.  Unemployment fell to 3.7 percent from 3.8 percent in August
when adjusted for seasonal swings, the State Secretariat for
Economic Affairs in Bern said today in an e-mailed statement.
That’s the lowest since May 2009 and in line with the median
forecast of eight economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Investors traditionally buy the franc during times of
economic turmoil because of the perceived stability of
Switzerland’s economy and current account surplus, and offload
the currency when they want to take on more risk.  The franc has climbed 5.1 percent this year against a
basket of currencies, according to Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Currency Indexes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephen Morris  in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  