-- Marseille Oil Port Strike Forces Refineries to Halt
-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h   a n d   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2010-10-08T17:12:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/french-oil-port-strike-enters-12th-day-forcing-plants-to-halt.html
A 12-day-old workers strike at the
French port of Marseille, expected to continue through the
weekend, will force refiners in the region to start halting
production, leading to motor fuel shortages.  At least four refineries may begin to completely shut from
this weekend,  Jean-Louis Schilansky , Paris-based head of
refiners’ organization Union Francaise des Industries
Petrolieres, said today in a telephone interview. Fuel supplies
may be endangered from Oct. 18, he said.  “We are heading toward a progressive halt of refineries
starting this weekend,” Schilansky said. “If the strike
continues, there could be local fuel supply problems in mainland
France.” The island of Corsica, which experienced shortages
this week, is now getting supplies from Sardinia, he said.  The strike, which began on Sept. 27, had stranded 51
vessels as of yesterday, including 13 crude-oil and 15 oil-
products tankers, three bulk chemical carriers, nine gas vessels
and three barges, according to a statement from the port
authority. Inchcape Shipping Services said on its website today
that 19 crude and 26 product tankers were waiting to load or
discharge.  “The strike will go on at least through the weekend,”
 Pascal Galeote , a representative from the Confederation Generale
du Travail labor union, said today by phone from Marseille. “We
think the ball is in the camp of the government to intervene.”  Galeote said no progress has been made this week with
Marseille port authority management in talks on working
conditions at a planned state-controlled company that will
employ oil port workers as part of a 2008 ports reform.  Strategic Reserves  France hasn’t drawn on its overall strategic fuel supplies
in response to the strike, Schilansky said. The reserves have
been deployed in some parts of the country and replaced in
others, keeping the total level unchanged, he said.  Total SA, Exxon Mobil Corp., Ineos Group Holdings Plc, and
LyondellBasell Industries NV have plants in the region that
account for 31 percent of French refining capacity.  The strike caused prices of gasoline and shipping to climb.
 Gasoline  for immediate loading in Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp,
Europe’s oil-trading hub, traded at as much as $770 a metric ton
yesterday, according to a survey of brokers and traders
monitoring the Argus bulletin board. That’s the highest price
since April 30. It traded at $742 to $758 a ton today.  Stockpiles  of the motor fuel in independent storage in the
ARA-hub fell 3.3 percent to 889,000 tons in the week to
yesterday, according to PJK International BV, a consultant in
The Netherlands. That’s the lowest level since Sept. 23.  Fuel Shortage  The fuel shortage has pushed up the amount of diesel being
shipped into Europe from the U.S.,  Christophe Barret , London-
based oil analyst at Credit Agricole, said Oct. 6. Cargoes could
start arriving next week, he said.  Freight rates for Aframax-class oil tankers shipping crude
oil across the Mediterranean advanced 67 percent this week to
143.86 Worldscale points, according to the London-based Baltic
Exchange.  Crude prices in the Mediterranean declined relative to
other regions. Russia’s Urals oil for delivery in Italy was 50
cents cheaper than cargoes for delivery in northwestern Europe
today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In the week
prior to the strike, shipments in the Mediterranean were 33
cents more expensive.  Crude Unit Halts  Total  plans to halt a crude distillation unit at its La
Mede refinery on Oct. 10 because of a lack of oil,  Charles Foulard , a CGT union spokesman, said yesterday. The refiner,
Europe’s largest, may halt some refining operations at the end
of the week,  Michael Crochet-Vourey , a spokesman for Total, said
yesterday. He reiterated this position today.  Exxon Mobil is running its Fos refinery in France at
minimum rates because the strike is limiting crude supplies.
“There is no shutdown of our refinery,” said Catherine Brun, a
Paris-based company spokeswoman.  Ineos reduced production at its Lavera refinery because of
the industrial action,  Richard Longden , a spokesman for the
company, said in an e-mail yesterday. Workers at the Ineos site
took part in demonstrations at an oil depot at the port
yesterday, Marc Sarde, a CGT representative, said by phone. They
weren’t on strike, he said.  “Units at our refining and petrochemical complex at Berre,
France,” are operating,  David Harpole , a Houston-based
LyondellBasell spokesman, said today in an e-mail. “We do not
discuss operating rates of individual units.”  Oil Hub  Workers at the oil hub are protesting a law on French port
operations as well as plans by the government to increase the
retirement age. The port has said “all guarantees” have been
given for the strike to end.  The CGT union’s national port workers branch said earlier
this week that the strike was due to “local problems” and
called for a strike on Oct. 12 at the ports, as well as cutting
back hours and eliminating overtime and weekend shifts.  The Marseille docks have been affected by stoppages in
recent years as unions resisted efforts to move jobs to the
private sector.  A 12-day strike at the oil hub in December 2008 cost
refineries 26 million euros ($36 million), including 15 million
euros related to vessel delays and 11 million euros in lost
revenue, UFIP estimated at the time. A strike at the oil
terminals in March 2007 lasted 17 days.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tara Patel  in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net 
 Nidaa Bakhsh  in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net 
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  