-- Gap's New `Modern, Sexy, Cool' Logo Irks Shoppers, Designers
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n   a n d   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2010-10-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/gap-s-new-modern-sexy-cool-logo-irks-shoppers-designers.html
Gap Inc. ’s iconic blue-square logo,
emblazoned on millions of shirts, hats and bags for more than
two decades, got a makeover this week, drawing a backlash from
customers who see the new look as ugly and bland.  Gap , a San Francisco-based clothing retailer, released
the redesigned logo on its  website  on Oct. 4 and plans for the
image to appear in marketing and some stores starting next
month. Customers took to social-media sites to express their
displeasure, echoing the negative reactions brought on by
Tropicana’s tweaked logo and the formula change of New Coke.  “The original Gap logo is classic and iconic,” said Eric
Mai, a 24-year-old Facebook user in Newport News, Virginia, one
of more than 400 people posting to Gap’s page on the social-
networking site. “By changing it, you’ve completely destroyed
what it took 20-plus years to build.”  The new logo sets the Gap name against a white backdrop,
with a blue square in the upper-right corner. Gap, which owns
Banana Republic, Old Navy, Piperlime and Athleta, has been
updating its clothing lines and stores to appeal to so-called
Millennials -- consumers in their 20s and early 30s. The new
logo is part of that plan, said  Louise Callagy , a spokeswoman
for the company.  “If you’ve been watching Gap over the past year, our
customers have seen how we’ve been evolving our brand
identity,” she said. That includes the company’s 1969 line of
jeans, its men’s khaki pants and the store design. “Our brand
and clothes are changing, so we want our logo to reflect that
change.”  American Look  Callagy described the company’s products as switching from
“what was classic, American design, to modern, sexy, cool.”  Chief Executive Officer  Glenn Murphy  has focused on the Gap
brand since he joined the company three years ago, part of a bid
to revive growth. Sales at Gap stores in North America open at
least a year have declined six straight months, including a 1
percent drop in September, while Old Navy and Banana Republic
have made gains this year. Gap, as a whole, hasn’t increased
annual  sales  since fiscal 2005.  Some blogs are making sport of the change. The site
YourLogoMakesMeBarf.com is  offering  a $50 iTunes gift card to
whoever can come up with the funniest caption to accompany the
retailer’s new image. More than 150 commenters have left
suggestions, including “Gap’s new branding inspiration:
PowerPoint ‘97,” “Bringing ugly back” and “Gap: Our new
logo? Yeah, your mom made it.”  ‘Passionate Debates’  The company issued a statement on its Facebook page
yesterday, saying they were “thrilled to see the passionate
debates unfolding” and welcomed design suggestions, calling it
a crowd-sourcing project.  “It shows you the power of social media,” said  Sandra Fathi , president of Affect Strategies, a New York-based public-
relations, strategic marketing and social-media firm. “What
people might have privately said walking into a store -- now
they can actually share their view with others and rally around
a cause to change back the logo.”  By not asking customers on Facebook and Twitter for
feedback before unveiling the redesign, Gap missed an
opportunity, said Debbie DeGabrielle, chief marketing officer of
Visible Technologies, a Bellevue, Washington-based social-media
monitoring company.  Broadening the Discussion  “If you’re contemplating a rebranding of your company, why
wouldn’t you invite those loyal people to be a part of that
journey with you, and feel some ownership and pride in that
process?” she said.  Laird & Partners , a New York-based branding agency,
designed the new label, Callagy said. The company also has
worked on brands for Juicy Couture, Nautica,  Tommy Hilfiger  and
Calvin Klein Underwear.  Trey Laird , who runs the firm, declined
to comment.  “People often react negatively to change,” said Glenn
Bunting, managing director of public-relations firm Sitrick &
Co. “If you really want to judge whether the new Gap logo is a
success, you can’t do it in a week or month. You have to look at
how the retailer is faring a year from now. A lot of people
didn’t like the look of the new Mustang when it came out, but
Ford stuck with the redesign and it proved popular.”  In 2008, PepsiCo Inc. decided to alter the image of a
straw-pierced orange on its Tropicana cartons because the
products “looked tired on the shelf,” according to  Indra Nooyi , CEO of Pepsi. Consumers rebelled, and Pepsi reverted to
the old look.  Missed Mark  “A couple of brand refreshers did not hit the mark,”
Nooyi said earlier this year. “We went back and fixed whatever
didn’t work.”  The backlash against Coca-Cola Co.’s New Coke, released in
1985, forced the company to revert to its old formula. Coca-Cola
 refers  to the incident as “a day that will live in marketing
infamy,” by spawning consumer angst “the likes of which no
business has ever seen.”  Web reaction to Gap’s new logo rises to the level of
“dislike,” as opposed to outright anger, said Jonathan Spier,
CEO of marketing research company  NetBase Solutions Inc.  in
Mountain View, California. NetBase’s software sifted through 75
million social-media sources, finding thousands of comments on
the switch.  “People talk about it being bland and having a more
corporate feel,” Spier said. “But the other thing I found
interesting was the number of people expressing nostalgia for
the old label, saying it’s classic or classy, or had an old-
school feel to it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ryan Flinn  in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net ;
 Matt Townsend  in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  