-- Gasoline, Heating Oil Rise as Jobs Report Signals Fed Spurring of Economy
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2010-10-08T19:47:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/gasoline-heating-oil-futures-climb-in-n-y-after-u-s-employment-report.html
Gasoline and heating oil rose after a
government report showed the U.S. lost more jobs than forecast
in September, weakening the dollar on expectations the Federal
Reserve will buy more debt to stimulate the economy.  Futures gained after the Labor Department said employers
cut staffing by 95,000 workers after a revised 57,000 decrease
in August. The median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for a drop of 5,000. The dollar weakened
to its lowest level since Jan. 15.  “The drop in jobs suggests the plans of quantitative
easing are still playing out, causing a weaker dollar,” said
 Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in
Stamford, Connecticut. The lagging currency drives investors to
commodities such as gasoline, he said.  Gasoline for November delivery rose 3.32 cents, or 1.6
percent, to settle at $2.1512 a gallon on the New York
Mercantile Exchange. Futures dropped yesterday for the first
time in seven days. Prices have risen 4.8 percent this year.  The Dollar Index, used by IntercontinentalExchange Inc. to
track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners including the euro and yen, fell 0.1 percent to
77.328 at 2:44 p.m.  The premium of gasoline over crude oil, or the crack
spread, based on November contracts, widened by about 27 cents
to $7.56 a barrel.  “Gasoline spreads are going to continue to widen out
because of France,” where a 12-day-old workers strike at the
Marseille oil port has held up tankers and affected refiners,
said  Tom Knight , vice president of trading and supply at Truman
Arnold Cos. in Texarkana, Texas.  French Refineries  At least four refineries may begin to shut down completely
starting this weekend,  Jean-Louis Schilansky , Paris-based head
of refiners’ organization Union Francaise des Industries
Petrolieres, said today in a telephone interview. Fuel supplies
may be endangered beginning Oct. 18, he said.  “The delays in France have been having a firming effect on
rates” for tankers, with ships in Marseille being delayed,
 George Los , senior analyst at shipbroker Charles R. Weber Co.,
said in a telephone interview yesterday. “In theory that would
delay any product coming to the States.”  Heating oil for November delivery gained 3.01 cents, or 1.3
percent, to $2.2819 a gallon. The heating oil crack spread,
based on November contracts, rose about 31 cents to $13.21.  Regular gasoline at the pump , averaged nationwide,
increased 1.4 cents to $2.782 a gallon yesterday, AAA said on
its  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Burkhardt  in New York at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 