-- Italian Stocks Decline; Azimut, Fondiaria, Popolare, Prysmian, Safilo Move
-- B y   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2010-10-08T16:04:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/gemina-stm-tesmec-unicredit-italian-market-equity-preview.html
Italy’s benchmark  FTSE MIB Index  rose
for a fourth day, gaining 58.84, or 0.3 percent, to 20,750.74 at
the 5:30 p.m. close in Milan. The measure has gained 1.8 percent
this week.  The following stocks were among the most active in the
Italian market today.  Azimut Holding SpA  (AZM IM) dropped for a second day,
losing 2 percent to 7.22 euros. Italy’s largest independent fund
manager was downgraded to “hold” from “accumulate” at Banca
Akros.  Banco Popolare SC  (BP IM) retreated 1.5 percent to 4.39
euros. The lender may cut about 800 jobs this year and next as
it seeks to reduce costs, daily Il Sole 24 Ore reported today.  “The planned cost saving is necessary but does not change
the overall picture,” Fidentiis Equities SV SA said in a note.
“Banco Popolare needs new capital, via capital increase or
disposals, and a revenue recovery that is still far to come.”  Fondiaria-Sai SpA  (FSA IM) surged 6.5 percent to 8.36
euros, the highest in about two months. French businessman
Vincent Bollore, vice chairman of Assicurazioni Generali SpA,
boosted his stake in  Premafin Finanziaria SpA  (PF IM), the
holding company which controls Fondiaria Sai, to 2.385 percent
Sept. 29, a filing shows.  Exane BNP Paribas upgraded Italy’s second-biggest insurer
to “neutral” from “underperform,” saying in a note that
“the risk/reward is now more balanced and noise on
restructuring could provide some short-term support.”  Milano Assicurazioni SpA  (MI IM), a unit of Fondiaria, rose
5.9 percent to 1.5 euros. Premafin shares rose 7.9 percent to 99
euro cents.  Landi Renzo SpA  (LR IM) dropped 2.3 percent to 3.69 euros,
the lowest in almost a month. Gruppo Banca Leonardo initiated
coverage of the maker of injection systems for alternative fuels
with an “underweight” rating. It cited “possible pricing
pressure from car manufacturers, oil price decline reducing the
appeal of alternative fuels, the introduction of higher taxes on
alternative fuels, limited or delayed support from governments,
country risks and currency volatility.”  Safilo Group SpA  (SFL IM) increased 5 percent to 10.17
euros, the highest since January 2009. Cheuvreux added the
world’s second-largest maker of glasses to its “European Small
& Midcap List” and lift its price estimate to 13 euros from
12.5 euros.  Tenaris SpA  (TEN IM) rose for a fourth day, gaining 2.6
percent to 14.75 euros. Intermonte Sim SpA upgraded the world’s
biggest maker of seamless steel tubes to “outperform” from
“underperform,” saying in a note that “despite a likely
prolongation of the weak pricing environment into the coming
months, we believe Tenaris could witness a robust margin rebound
next year.”  Tesmec SpA  (TES IM) climbed 4.3 percent to 66.2 euro cents,
a fourth consecutive gain. The Italian maker of machines used to
build and maintain power lines and pipes said third-quarter
sales rose 43 percent to 24.8 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  