-- General Growth Wins Approval to Proceed With Stock Plan After Bankruptcy
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2010-10-08T16:35:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/general-growth-wins-approval-to-proceed-with-stock-plan-after-bankruptcy.html
General Growth Properties Inc. , the
second-largest mall owner in the U.S., won court approval to
proceed with its plan for a $2 billion stock offering after it
emerges from bankruptcy.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Allan Gropper  in Manhattan approved
an underwriting agreement that will allow General Growth to
replace financing from a group of investors that has agreed to
help fund its bankruptcy restructuring. The judge also approved
a $1.8 billion commitment for debt financing.  Gropper said the financing agreements are an indication
“of the enormous success” of General Growth’s turnaround while
in bankruptcy.  Tom Nolan , General Growth’s president, said in an interview
in court that General Growth intends to raise about $2 billion
in the stock offering. That will replace half of the commitments
from Fairholme Capital Management LLC, Pershing Square Capital
Management LP and the Teacher Retirement System of Texas, Nolan
said.  “There’s going to be a fair amount of demand for the
stock,” he said.  Gropper’s approval of the underwriting comes as General
Growth is nearing the end of its bankruptcy case, which began in
April 2009. Later this month, it is scheduled to seek court
approval for its restructuring plan, clearing the way for the
mall owner to emerge from bankruptcy.  Equity Commitments  Under the equity commitments it lined up earlier this year,
General Growth has the right to replace portions of the
financing by selling, while in bankruptcy, notes that convert to
shares or by a post-bankruptcy stock offering.  General Growth negotiated the underwriting agreement with
 Goldman & Sachs Co. ,  Deutsche Bank AG ,  Wells Fargo Securities ,
RBC Capital Markets Corp.,  Barclays PLC ,  UBS Securities LLC ,
Macquarie Bank Ltd. and TD Securities (USA) LLC, according to
court papers.  The U.S. Trustee’s office, an arm of the Justice Department
that monitors bankruptcy cases, objected to UBS’s role as
underwriter and lender. UBS is one of General Growth’s financial
advisers and “suffers from disabling conflicts of interest,”
the government said in a court filing yesterday.  “UBS Securities’ advice may be susceptible to claims that
the advice is not unbiased in that UBS Securities may have, and
may currently be perceived to be directing the debtors toward
the direction where UBS Securities may earn the most fees,”
lawyers for the U.S. Trustee said.  The objection was resolved during a closed-door meeting
with the judge.  The case is In re General Growth Properties Inc., 09-11977,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 