-- General Growth, Philadelphia Newspapers: Bankruptcy
-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2010-10-08T12:43:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/general-growth-inquirer-american-safety-razor-bankruptcy.html
  General Growth Properties Inc .’s
reorganization plan doesn’t properly compound interest,
according to Wilmington Trust Co., the indenture trustee for
6.75 percent senior notes issued by Rouse Co. and the 3.98
percent exchangeable senior notes due 2027.  The indenture trustee contends the formula contained in the
plan is incorrect because interest isn’t compounded correctly.
The indenture trustee also contends that the plan impermissibly
discriminates against the noteholders.  New investors have the option under the plan to receive
cash for their existing notes, thus providing some of the cash
they need in making new investments in a reorganized General
Growth. Other noteholders aren’t offered the same cash-out
option, the indenture trustee says.  By not making the cash-out option available to all
noteholders, the indenture trustee contends that the plan
improperly discriminates against similarly situated creditors.  The issue will be decided by the bankruptcy judge at the
Oct. 21 hearing where General Growth banks on walking out with a
confirmation order approving the reorganization for the top-tier
companies.  The official creditors’ committee goes along with the
discrimination argument, to a point. At present, according to
the committee, trading prices on the notes indicate the holders
will receive payment at least equal to investors who cash out.
The committee is reserving its right to object if the price of
the notes falls in the market.  Creditors of General Growth’s four top-tier companies are
to receive full payment under the Chapter 11 plan. The plan
preserves some of the stock for existing shareholders. The plan
is financed in part with an $8.55 billion debt and equity
commitment from a group led by  Brookfield Asset Management Inc .
General Growth’s property-owning subsidiaries already confirmed
Chapter 11 plans paying their creditors in full.  General Growth, the second-largest mall owner in the U.S.
with 180 properties in 43 states, began the largest real-estate
reorganization in history by filing under Chapter 11 in April
2009. The books of Chicago-based General Growth had assets of
$29.6 billion and total liabilities of $27.3 billion as of Dec.
31, 2008.  The case is In re General Growth Properties Inc., 09-11977,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York 
  Manhattan ).  Prepack Coming  MGM Begins Vote Solicitation for Prepacked Chapter 11  Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc. announced yesterday that it has
begun soliciting acceptances of a so-called prepackaged Chapter
11 plan where secured lenders will swap $4 billion in debt for
95.3 percent of the new stock.  Spyglass Entertainment Group will acquire the remainder of
the new equity in exchange for contributing assets including
Cypress Entertainment Group Inc. and Garoge Inc. When MGM
emerges from Chapter 11, Gary Berger and Roger Birnbaum from
Burbank, California-based Spyglass will become MGM’s co-chairman
and chief executive officer.  The voting deadline for the so-called prepack is Oct. 22.
When the votes are in hand, MGM will file the Chapter 11
petition, likely intending to emerge from Chapter 11 within
about four to six weeks. In addition to finding compliance with
technical aspects of Chapter 11, the bankruptcy judge can
approve the plan by signing a confirmation if the courts
determines that that the voting solicitation materials were
adequate.  MGM, based in  Los Angeles , was acquired in April 2005 in a
$4.8 billion transaction by a group including  Credit Suisse
Group AG , Providence Equity Partners Inc.,  Sony Corp . and TPG
Capital.  Updates  Meruelo Maddux Committee Wants Executives’ Bonuses Cut Off  The Meruelo Maddux Properties Inc. creditors’ committee
said the company should be compelled to terminate employment
agreements with the top three officers, to avoid large priority
claims if one of the competing reorganization plans is
eventually confirmed.  According to a motion filed by the committee on Oct. 6,
Chief Executive Officer Richard Meruelo and Chief Operating
Officer John Maddux are entitled to so-called golden parachutes
if their employment is terminated “without cause.” The payment
would equal three times the officers’ base salary and bonus.  If a competing plan is eventually approved by the
bankruptcy judge, the services of the three officers won’t be
required, thus kicking in claims that would be entitled to
priority and require payment in full. The committee wants the
judge to require the company to give notices beginning in
November that the employments agreements won’t be renewed.  The motion to cut off the employment agreements is
scheduled for a Nov. 10 hearing in bankruptcy court in Woodland
Hills,  California . The third officer with an employment contract
is Chief Financial Officer Andrew Murray.  The court is in the process of approving disclosure
statements explaining three competing reorganizations plans. One
plan is proposed by lenders Legendary Investors Group No. 1 LLC
and East West Bank. The company has another, as do shareholders
Charlestown Capital Advisors LLC and Hartland Asset Management
Corp. The committee again said it isn’t supporting the company’s
plan.  The bankruptcy court permitted the filing of other plans in
May. The Chapter 11 petition filed in March 2009 listed assets
of $682 million against debt totaling $342 million.  The case is In re  Meruelo Maddux Properties Inc ., 09-13356,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Central District of California (Woodland
Hills).  Bank of America May Sell Cabi Downtown Loan  Cabi Downtown LLC, the owner of the 49-story  Everglades on
the Bay  condominium in Miami, was scheduled to confirm a Chapter
11 plan yesterday where ownership would transfer to Bank of
America NA, the construction lender owed $207 million.  The hearing was pushed back to Oct. 27 because the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank is receiving offers to
purchase the loan. The adjournment of the confirmation hearing
is intended to give the bank time to complete a sale.  Cabi said in a court filing that it is ready to implement
the plan. Cabi agreed not to interfere with a sale of the loan
and is committed to allowing buyers to inspect the property.  The plan resulted from a settlement between Cabi and the
bank. While the bank would take ownership, the developer would
remain manager.  The plan gives unsecured creditors $750,000, for a 25
percent recovery on $3 million in claims. The plan was revised
so large, disputed claims wouldn’t dilute the recovery by
unsecured creditors.  Cabi filed for Chapter 11 reorganization in August 2009,
just after the bank began foreclosure. The company is owned by
 GICSA , which says it is the largest and most profitable real-
estate developer in  Mexico .  The case is In re Cabi Downtown LLC, 09-27168, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of  Florida  (Miami).  Tubo Again Reports Progress on Plan Negotiations  Tubo de Pasteje SA and subsidiary Cambridge-Lee Holdings
Inc. for a second time are seeking an extension of the exclusive
right to propose a Chapter 11 plan.  The company reports “significant progress” in discussions
with noteholders on a Chapter 11 plan. The motion for longer
exclusivity recites the company’s hope that it will “soon”
have agreement allowing the filing of a consensual
reorganization plan.  If granted by the bankruptcy court at a Nov. 2 hearing, the
new plan deadline would be Jan. 5.  In the first motion in March for longer exclusivity, the
company said there had been “significant progress” in talks
with noteholders about a plan.  The companies sought Chapter 11 protection after a payment
default in November 2009 on $200 million in 11.5 percent senior
notes due 2016.  Tubo is a subsidiary of Mexico City-based Industrias Unidas
SA, a diversified manufacturer of copper and electrical
products. The U.S. subsidiary Cambridge-Lee is based in Reading,  Pennsylvania . IUSA is the issuer of the notes which were secured
by a pledge of the stock of Cambridge-Lee.  The case is In re Tubo de Pasteje SA de CV, 09-14353, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Statistics  Defaults by Junk-Rated Companies Continue to Decline  Worldwide defaults for junk-rated companies declined from
6.2 percent in the second quarter to 4 percent at the end of the
third quarter, Moody’s Investors Service said in a report.  In the U.S., the junk default rate contracted to 4 percent
from 6.4 percent between the second and third quarters.  One year ago, the global junk default rate was 13.2
percent. The default rate now is below the 4.8 percent average
for the years 1983 through 2009.  While the default rate is down between quarters, the number
of companies with debt trading at so-called distressed levels
hasn’t declined as much. Moody’s index for distressed debt was
15 percent at the end of the third quarter, down from 16 percent
at the close of the second quarter. One year ago, the distress
index was 32.5 percent.  So far this year, there have been 40 defaults by companies
that Moody’s rates. In the first nine months of 2009, there were
237 defaults.  Debt is considered distressed if the yield is 10 percentage
points more than comparable Treasury securities.  Moody’s predicts that the global default rate will decline
to 2.7 percent by the end of 2010 and to 2 percent by the third
quarter of 2011.  Exchange Offer News  Madden Converts Betsy Johnson Debt to Mark Ownership    Steven Madden Ltd ., a footwear designer and marketer,
swapped $27.6 million of secured debt for ownership of the
trademarks and intellectual property of 60-store women’s wear
retailer Betsey Johnson LLC.  In a regulatory filing this morning, Madden, based in Long
Island City, New York, gave a license for the marks back to
Johnson in return for royalties. The statement said that Madden
purchased $48.8 million of secured debt owed by Johnson for
$27.6 million. The debt is secured by all of Johnson’s assets.  As part of the arrangement, Madden also acquired 10 percent
of the Class B preferred shares. At the same time, Madden made a
$3 million loan to Johnson. The loan will pay interest at 8
percent and mature in December 2015.  Castanea Partners, the majority owner of Johnson, made a
new capital investment, the statement said.  New Filing  Five Southern Dairy Farms File to Stop Foreclosure  Dairy Production Systems-Georgia LLC  filed for Chapter 11
protection yesterday in Albany, Georgia, along with four
affiliates. They operate five dairy farms in Florida,  Georgia ,
Mississippi and  Texas .  Together, the farms, based in High Springs, Florida, have
about 10,500 head of cattle on farms that collectively encompass
about 3,350 acres. The dairies blamed their financial problems
on the decline in the price of fluid milk, coupled with
increases in feed and operating costs.  The dairies owe $76.2 million to Agricultural Funding
Solutions LLC, which purchased the loan from the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. after the original lender, New Frontier Bank of
Greeley,  Colorado , was taken over by regulators.  The Chapter 11 filing occurred after Agricultural Funding
filed foreclosure proceedings and asked for the appointment of
receivers. Agricultural Funding bought the loans from the FDIC
for about $22 million, according to a court filing.  Revenue declined to $48 million last year from $57.2
million in 2008 and the farms are operating at no more than 65
percent of capacity, court papers show.  The farms are owned by David P. Sumrall, who guaranteed
much of the bank debt.  The case is In re Dairy Production Systems-Georgia LLC, 10-
11752, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Middle District of Georgia
(Albany).  Daily Podcast  Bankruptcy Filing Statistics, Truvo, and Vegas Monorail: Audio  Statistics showing that individual bankruptcies have risen
while fewer large companies reorganize, and settlements
regarding  Las Vegas Monorail Co.  and Truvo Luxemburg Sarl are
subjects for a bankruptcy podcast on the Bloomberg terminal and
Bloomberglaw.com. To listen, click here.  Briefly Noted  Philadelphia Newspapers Sale Due for Closing Today  The sale of  Philadelphia Newspapers LLC  to the secured
lenders is scheduled for completion today. The new owners have
signed agreements with the last of 15 labor unions. To read
Bloomberg coverage, click here.  To read how the bankruptcy court for a second time approved
a sale to the lenders, click here for the Oct. 1 Bloomberg
bankruptcy report. The publisher of Philadelphia Inquirer and
Philadelphia Daily News began court reorganization in February
2009 in its hometown after defaulting on a term loan and
revolving credit totaling $296.6 million and on $98.5 million in
subordinated notes.  The case in bankruptcy court is In re Philadelphia
Newspapers LLC, 09-11204, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Eastern
District of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  Advance Sheets  Walrath Lays Down Rules for Delaware Auction and Bids  The sale of American Safety Razor Co. gave U.S. Bankruptcy
Judge Mary F. Walrath an opportunity to expound upon what are
and what aren’t permissible restrictions on bidding at a
bankruptcy auction.  ASR, the fourth-largest maker of wet-shaving blades, asked
Walrath to approve a sale to first-lien lenders. Instead,
Walrath required the company to hold another auction in the
courtroom today.  At a Sept. 30 hearing, Walrath ruled it was improper for
ASR to preclude bidding by  Energizer Holdings Inc . on the theory
that federal antitrust regulators would disapprove an
acquisition by the maker of Schick shavers.  Walrath said the bidding process isn’t covered by the so-
called business judgment rule. She said the court has the right
to decide what sale procedures are “fair and reasonable”
without deference to the company’s business judgment.  The judge in Wilmington, Delaware, decided that several
provisions in the bidding qualifications and procedures were
improper. Walrath said it was “not reasonable” for the debtor
to have power to exclude a bidder based on the company’s opinion
about whether there is a “reasonable likelihood” the buyer can
complete the acquisition. She said such a loose provision would
give a bankrupt company the ability to prevent bidding by any
prospective buyer already in the industry.  Walrath said it was “even more remarkable” to prevent a
prospective bidder from receiving due diligence material until
after being designed as a so-called qualified bidder.  The judge said it wasn’t fair for the bankrupt company to
have discretion to require different deposits from different
bidders.  She said her “biggest problem” was ASR’s insistence that
there must be a nonrefundable deposit or some other form of a
“hell-or-high-water provision” accompanying a bid by
Energizer. Walrath said there could be several means for dealing
with the possibility that antitrust regulators might block a
sale to Energizer.  Walrath said it would be acceptable for ASR to have the
ability to terminate a sale contract if antitrust clearance
wasn’t given within about two months.  To be sure the new auction today would be conducted on a
level playing field, Walrath reminded the parties “there are
criminal sanctions for anybody who proceeds with a sale process
in bankruptcy court for ulterior and improper motives.”  For details on ASR’s debt structure and the bids, click
here for the Oct. 1 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  ASR, based in Cedar Knolls,  New Jersey , has U.S. plants in
Virginia and Tennessee. Affiliates abroad aren’t in bankruptcy.
It was acquired for $625 million in July 2006 by London-based
Lion Capital LLP.  ASR has the largest market share for private-label blades,
although only 8 percent when branded goods are included,
according to Moody’s Investors Service.  The case is In re American Safety Razor Co., 10-12351, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Rochelle in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 