-- Ghana Lacks ’Capacity’ to Tackle Oil Spills, Report Shows
-- B y   J a s o n   M c L u r e
-- 2010-10-08T12:49:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/ghana-lacks-the-capacity-to-tackle-spills-from-oil-wells-report-shows.html
Ghana’s  main environmental agency may
finish regulations for the country’s nascent energy industry by
2012, as a government report showed the body is unprepared to
manage the risks associated with oil production.  The  Environmental Protection Agency  “lacks necessary
equipment and adequate capacity” to monitor and handle
potential problems in the emerging oil and natural gas
industries, showed the report, written by officials from the
West African nation’s Environment Ministry and other government
agencies.  The report was obtained by Bloomberg and verified on Oct. 6
by Hamidu Adakurugu, a deputy director at the ministry who
served on the committee that probed a series of spills of low-
toxicity drilling mud and fluid by Dallas-based Kosmos Energy
LLC over the past year.  Ghana, which is set to become Africa’s newest oil exporter
at the end of this year, may pump as much as 240,000 barrels of
oil from it offshore Jubilee field by 2014-15, the state-owned
Ghana National Petroleum Corp. said yesterday. U.K.-based  Tullow
Oil Plc , the field’s operator, holds a 34.7 percent stake while
Kosmos has 23.5 percent. Other partners include the GNPC and
 Anadarko Petroleum Corp.   The regulatory shortcomings will take time to overcome,
said Kojo Agbenor-Efunam, a program officer with the Accra-based
agency, known as the EPA, who is working on the new regulations.
He said that he had not seen the ministry’s report.  Needs Support  “The staff strength of the agency is not like you find in
the U.S.,” he said in an interview yesterday, saying he was the
only full-time employee of the EPA working on the oil industry.
“Jubilee has brought Ghana into the limelight for everybody. We
will need all kinds of support to do what we need to do.”  The ministry’s undated report recommended Kosmos be fined
40 million cedis ($28 million) for spilling 706 barrels of oil-
based mud containing heavy metals and drilling fluid into the
Gulf of Guinea on three occasions over the past year. Kosmos has
contested the fine, China’s Xinhua News Agency reported Sept.
21, citing people it didn’t identify. Jim McCarthy, a New York-
based spokesman for Kosmos, declined to comment in an e-mail
Oct. 5.  The GNPC, which is also the energy industry’s regulator,
“failed in exercising its regulatory role” during the
spillage, including on Dec. 26, 2009, when the representative
who was supposed to be on board a drilling rig was on vacation,
the report said. The committee recommended that the corporation
be stripped of its role in supervising other companies in the
industry.  Not Aware  The  Ghana Maritime Authority , an agency responsible for
protecting the country’s coastal waters from pollution, was not
aware the rig was operating in Ghana’s waters, the committee
said in the report.  GNPC’s Managing Director  Nana Boakye Asafu-Adjaye  and
 Thomas Manu , director of exploration and production, did not
respond to phone and text messages made Oct. 6 and today. The
maritime authority did not respond to an e-mail or answer calls
placed to its Accra office yesterday.  Ghanaian fishermen said a larger spill could threaten their
security. According to the Food and Agriculture Organization, an
estimated 1.5 to 2 million Ghanaians are involved in fishing,
including both fisherman and the people who rely on them for
support.  “It worries us,” said John Bessaw, a fisherman in the
village of Dixcove, about 70 kilometers (44 miles) north of the
Jubilee field, in an interview last month aboard his motorized
canoe. “We didn’t go to school, this is the work we know.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason McLure  in Accra at 
 jmclure@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 