-- Ghana's Growth May Average 8% on Oil, Central Bank's Kofi Wampah Says
-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 2010-10-08T15:51:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/ghana-s-growth-may-average-8-on-crude-oil-central-bank-s-wampah-says.html
Ghana’s  economic growth may average
about 8 percent in the next three to five years, compared with
an expansion of 4 percent to 6 percent over the last few years,
as oil production begins, the country’s central bank said.  “Growth would be boosted by the nascent oil industry,
which is attracting and increasing investment in oil-linked
economic activity, helping to lift the entire economy,”  Kofi Wampah , deputy governor of the Bank of Ghana, said in an
interview at his office in the capital, Accra, yesterday.  The economy may expand 10 percent to 15 percent next year,
slower than Finance Ministry’s prediction of around 20 percent
made Sept. 8, Wampah said. The economy will expand 5.9 percent
this year, according to the Ghana Statistical Service.  Ghana expects additional inflows of $600 million to $1
billion from the first full year of production at the Jubilee
oil field next year, he said. Discovered in 2007, as much as
240,000 barrels per day may be pumped from the site by 2014-15,
the state-owned Ghana National Petroleum Corp. said yesterday.  Managing the extra cash will prove a challenge for the
bank, in order to keep inflation within the regulator’s
preferred range of 8 percent to 9 percent over the next three
years, he said.  ‘Price Stability’  “Our main objective of price stability remains,” he said.
Ghanaian inflation slowed to 9.4 percent in August, the 14th
consecutive month that the rate declined since it reached a
five-year peak of 20.7 percent in June, 2009.  Wampah said inflation is expected to remain in a single
digit this year, as “the bank looks to properly position the
key interest rate when it holds its last meeting in November.”  The central bank has cut the policy rate gradually from
18.5 percent in November 2009 to 13.5 percent in July. The rate
was maintained at the most recent meeting of the Monetary Policy
Committee last month.  The bank has been cutting the rate in a bid to encourage
commercial banks to lower their own lending rates. Wampah said
the lenders’ rates should “not be more than 5 percent above the
policy rate.”  Banks’ average lending rates were 28.5 percent between June
and August, the central bank said Sept. 24.  Currency Depreciated  The policy rate is affected by inflation, which accelerated
in 2009 as the cost of imports increased when the domestic
currency depreciated by 15 percent against the U.S. dollar in
the first six months of the year. Loans by the International
Monetary Fund and the World Bank helped stabilize the currency,
which has been largely unchanged, rising 0.2 percent this year
to 1.4230 to the dollar as of 3:22 p.m. in Accra.  Wampah said part of the oil inflows will be deposited into
a “heritage fund” being developed by the government. The
policies will be laid out in the oil revenue and management
bills, set to go before lawmakers next month, he said.  The bank wants to maintain the stability in the cedi, and
it may be allowed to strengthen or weaken 3 percent to 5
percent, Wampah said.  The bank “would not be spending our reserves to defend the
exchange rates,” he said. Foreign reserves, currently around
$3.9 billion or slightly more than 3 months of import cover, may
rise to between $4 billion and $5 billion, Wampah said.  He said the Ghanaian central bank does not target the
exchange rate but rather its foreign reserves.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 