-- GIC's Global Logistics IPO Said to Raise $2.64 Billion
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2010-10-08T04:36:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/gic-s-ipo-of-global-logistics-properties-said-to-raise-about-2-64-billion.html
Global Logistic Properties Ltd.  is
set to raise S$3.45 billion ($2.64 billion) in Singapore’s
biggest initial public offering since 1993, three people with
knowledge of the matter said.  Shares in GLP, the overseas logistics unit of  Government of
Singapore Investment Corp. , were priced at S$1.96 a share, the
top end of a range marketed to investors, the people said on
condition of anonymity.  The Global Logistic IPO will push the amount raised in
Singapore equity offerings in 2010 to $5.33 billion, making it
the biggest year for share sales in the city-state since 2007.
Mapletree Industrial Trust, owned by a unit of  Temasek Holdings
Pte , plans to raise as much as S$940 million in an IPO next week.  “The momentum and sentiment should keep going, though
there’s quite a number of IPOs coming through at the moment so
you never know when the appetite might turn,” said  Chong Yoon- Chou , Singapore-based investment director at Aberdeen Asset
Management Asia Ltd., which oversaw $75 billion as of Aug. 31.  Global Logistic, which said last month it would offer 1.76
billion shares,  plans  to use S$1.5 billion of the proceeds to
expand in China and Japan, and about S$600 million to pay down
existing shareholder loans. There is an over-allotment option to
expand the sale by 234.7 million shares.  Wal-Mart, FedEx  The company, whose customers include  Wal-Mart China ,
Deutsche Post AG’s DHL and FedEx Corp., is led by Deputy
Chairman and Executive Director  Jeffrey Schwartz . Schwartz, 51,
is a former chief executive officer of ProLogis, the world’s
biggest warehouse owner. The shares of the Denver-based company
dropped the most in 14 years when Schwartz resigned in November
2008.  GIC, manager of more than $100 billion of Singapore’s
foreign-exchange reserves, bought the assets from ProLogis for
$1.3 billion in December 2008.  Global Logistic owns, manages and leases 296 properties
within 122 integrated parks, according to its prospectus. It
manages and leases a gross floor area of about 6.2 million
square meters (66.7 million square feet) in its network spread
across 25 major cities in China and Japan, according to the
document.  GIC, through its subsidiaries, will own 56.8 percent of the
company after the share offering and 51.5 percent if the over-
allotment option is exercised, according to the sale  prospectus .  GIC IPOs  Global Logistic will be the third IPO in Asia that’s linked
to GIC this year, according to publicly available reports.  The sovereign wealth fund had divested its stakes in Sunway
Pyramid Shopping Mall and the Sunway Resort Hotel portfolio to a
Malaysian property trust that was  listed  in July. GIC bought a 5
percent stake in the property trust, which raised about 1.5
billion ringgit ($484 million), Malaysia’s biggest initial
public offering this year.  China Minzhong Food Corp.,  a food processor backed by GIC,
raised S$237 million in an initial share sale in Singapore in
April.  “GIC does provide a bit of the goodwill backing,”
Aberdeen’s Chong said of the latest IPO. “Also, interest rates
are so low right now that a lot of institutions and retail
investors are looking for these kinds of yield prospects.”  Citigroup Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  are leading a group
of investment banks arranging the IPO, including  UBS AG , China
International Capital Corp. and DBS Group Holdings Ltd.  Singapore Telecommunications Ltd. ’s initial offering in the
city-state in 1993 raised more than S$4 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joyce Koh  in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  