-- Finance Chiefs Seek to Soothe Not Solve `Currency War' at IMF
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 2010-10-09T08:19:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/global-finance-chiefs-seeking-to-soothe-not-solve-currency-war-at-imf.html
Global finance chiefs struggled to
find a solution to differences over exchange rates as they
warned a currency “war” could hobble the world economy.  As the International Monetary Fund’s annual meeting began
in Washington, policy makers warned that efforts to boost
exports by embracing weaker currencies threatened to provoke
protectionism and trade imbalances at a time when economic
growth is already slowing. China was again the target of
criticism as foreign officials called the yuan undervalued and
pushed for its appreciation to be accelerated.  “We want peace not war,” French Finance Minister
 Christine Lagarde  told reporters. Bank of France Governor
 Christian Noyer  said colleagues need to “foster confidence, not
war” on currencies and that excess volatility harms expansion.  Currency intervention by nations from Japan to Brazil and
the prospect of easier monetary policy by the Federal Reserve
are roiling foreign-exchange markets. The dollar yesterday fell
below 82 yen for the first time since 1995 on a report that
employers cut more jobs last month than economists forecast,
raising speculation the Federal Reserve will soon enact more
stimulus.  “This is a crucial time that we need to address the
commitment of our leaders to free trade, that we avoid
protectionist measures,” Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty 
told reporters. U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said
“global rebalancing is not progressing as well as needed to
avoid threats to the global economic recovery.”  Bad Situations  Cautioning that using currencies as a tool of economic
policy can “lead to very bad situations,” IMF Managing
Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  said the lender is looking to
better expose how the actions of one economy affect others. It
“makes sense” for the IMF to be a forum for currency debate,
said the fund’s chief economist  Olivier Blanchard .  Group of Seven officials met late yesterday and maintained
their traditional position on currencies, Japanese Finance
Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  told reporters.  “We confirmed that excessive and disorderly currency
movements are undesirable for economic and financial stability,”
he said. “Currencies should reflect economic fundamentals. We
also reaffirmed to monitor markets closely and cooperate
appropriately.”  Plaza Accord  Lagarde said France wanted better coordination and more
diversification when it came to currencies, without offering
specific steps. Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega 
suggested the Group of 20 strike a deal akin to 1985’s Plaza
Accord, which successfully weakened the dollar.  Officials have a “genuine desire” to resolve disputes
over exchange rates, U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said. “We do need to move toward market orientated
rates that reflect fundamentals.”  Most ministers nevertheless declined to offer concrete
solutions other than for China, preferring instead to complain
about recent trading. Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who heads a panel of euro-area finance ministers, said
the euro is “too strong” and labeled the yuan “more than
undervalued.”  Brazilian Central Bank President  Henrique Meirelles  said a
currency agreement is unlikely in the short term and blamed
recent gyrations on an excess of dollars generated by loose
monetary policy in the U.S. and other industrial nations. That’s
fuelling capital flows into emerging markets such as his.  Balancing Brazil  “Brazil cannot pay an excessive price for the fact it’s
doing well while others are doing badly,” he said. “Brazil
needs to take its measures to protect itself from these
imbalances.”  Japan also remains ready to act on the yen when needed,
Noda said, although it doesn’t intend to return to the long-
term, large yen selling of the past after intervening for the
first time in six years last month. Thai Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  said yesterday his Cabinet will meet next week to
consider ways to help exporters cope with the baht’s climb to a
13-year high.  Chinese officials are pushing back against calls for a
weaker yuan.  People’s Bank of China Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said in
Washington that his country aims to avoid any “shock therapy”
in its currency reform and that is rise should be “gradual.”
While the yuan yesterday rose to the highest level against the
dollar since 1993, it is still only about 2 percent higher than
it was when China said in June it would make it more flexible.  U.S. vs China  China faces U.S. legislation aimed at prodding to raise the
value of the yuan, with Rhode Island Senator  Jack Reed  telling
Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ” that
the U.S. Senate may consider it in a lame-duck session. China
yesterday faced U.S. criticism for ignoring pledges made under
last year’s global-warming accord and calls to release jailed
dissident  Liu Xiaobo  after he won the Nobel Peace Prize.  On exchange rates, Russian Deputy Finance Minister  Dmitry Pankin  added to the tension by saying Brazil, Russia, India and
China have united to show “rather strong resistance” to
attempts to make “any harsh appraisal” of currency controls.  Investors and economists say further exchange-rate
volatility could hurt the world economy.  In an article in the Financial Times, billionaire investor
 George Soros  said he shares “the growing concern about the
misalignment of currencies” and that talk of a currency war
“is not far off the mark.”  New York University Professor  Nouriel Roubini , who
predicted the 2008 credit crisis, said in Washington that the
euro at $1.40 is “painful” for the euro area, and that it may
relapse into a recession.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Kennedy  in Washington at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  