-- Currency Tensions May Be Curbed With IMF Help, Strauss-Kahn Says
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2010-10-08T23:17:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/global-currency-tensions-may-be-curbed-with-imf-reports-strauss-kahn-says.html
International Monetary Fund  Managing
Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  said the fund will try to help
resolve trade imbalances that may otherwise lead to conflicts
over currency valuations.  Using currencies as weapons “is not a solution” and “it
can even lead to a very bad situation,” Strauss-Kahn said in a
speech in Washington today. “There’s no domestic solution to a
global problem.”  The IMF’s annual meeting began today amid concern a
“currency war,” a term first used by Brazilian Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega  last week, is being fought by nations
keen to embrace weaker exchange rates as a route to stronger
economic growth. The dollar dropped below 82 yen for the first
time since 1995 today and was headed for a fourth weekly decline
against the euro amid speculation the Federal Reserve will soon
deliver more economic stimulus.  While the currency issue threatened to dominate discussions
among IMF leaders, Chinese leaders said they would stick to a
gradual rise in the yuan’s value to avoid social turmoil.  “China’s exchange-rate policy is based on the market
supply and demand relation to move gradually to the equilibrium
point,” China’s central bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  told a
panel discussion today. “We do that in a gradual way, rather
than a shock therapy.”  U.S. Unemployment  Zhou also said exchange rates won’t solve U.S. unemployment,
rejecting a widely held view in the U.S. Congress.  Strauss-Kahn, at a news conference yesterday, said the IMF
is the “right place” to make progress on increasingly tense
currency issues while also agreeing that the yuan itself is
undervalued.  The IMF is working on new “spillover reports” to show the
linkages between economies, Strauss-Kahn said. Such a report can
help “understand the two sides” he said at the panel
discussion hosted by the British Broadcasting Corp. in
Washington.  The IMF reports will focus on the U.S., China, the U.K.,
Japan and the euro area, Strauss-Kahn said in May.  They will show, for instance, how the U.S. monetary policy
affects capital flows to other countries, he added today.  Crafted Proposals  The Washington-based institution has also crafted proposals
to Group of 20 leaders that can help lift global growth by 2.5
percentage points within five years, he said.  Many advanced nations such as the U.S. have yet to adopt
policies that will reduce their reliance on government spending
and strengthen household demand and exports, the IMF said in its
World Economic Outlook report this week. At the same time,
developing nations such as China are keeping their currencies
weak and remain overly dependent on overseas sales to spur
growth.  Strauss-Kahn yesterday called for a “systemic stability
initiative” to improve the situation of imbalances, without
giving further details. He also dismissed chances of a return to
the currency accords of the 1980s.  “It makes sense” for the IMF to be a forum for currencies
and the fund’s staff is working on the idea, IMF chief economist
 Olivier Blanchard  told reporters today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sandrine Rastello  in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  