-- Gold May Slide on Rebounding Dollar, Speculation Prices Climbed Too High
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2010-10-08T12:20:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/gold-declines-from-record-pares-weekly-advance-on-strengthening-dollar.html
Gold may decline in New York,
extending the biggest drop in more than two months, as the
dollar strengthened and as some investors sell on speculation
bullion’s rally to a record was overdone.  The dollar rebounded from near the lowest level since
January against the euro. Gold futures, which yesterday dropped
0.9 percent after reaching a record $1,366 an ounce, usually
move inversely to the greenback. AngloGold Ashanti Ltd.
yesterday said it eliminated the last of its hedge book to give
it full exposure to gold prices.  “It’s mostly driven by profit-taking,” said  Jesper Dannesboe , a senior commodity strategist at Societe Generale SA
in London. “Gold was massively overbought” and a halt in the
dollar’s slide and the AngloGold announcement may prompt some
investor sales, he said.  Gold futures for December delivery lost $4.60, or 0.3
percent, to $1,330.40 an ounce at 8 a.m. on the Comex in New
York. The metal is up 1 percent this week. Bullion for immediate
delivery in London was 0.3 percent lower at $1,329.57 after
reaching a record $1,364.77 yesterday.  Bullion fell to $1,330.50 an ounce in the morning
“fixing” in London, used by some mining companies to sell
output, from $1,345 at yesterday’s afternoon fixing. The recent
rally had driven futures’ relative strength index, a gauge of
whether a commodity is overbought or oversold, above 70, a sign
to some analysts and traders who study technical charts that
prices may be poised to drop.  Dollar Slides  The dollar today traded near the lowest level since 1995
against the yen on concern the Federal Reserve will debase its
currency by stepping up purchases of government debt, and
earlier fell against the euro before a report forecast to show
the U.S. jobless rate rose. The dollar was last up 0.3 percent
against the euro.  Gold, up 21 percent this year, is heading for its 10th
consecutive annual gain, the longest winning streak since at
least 1920 in London. Bullion has outperformed global equities,
Treasuries and most industrial metals, prompting record
investment in gold-backed exchange-traded products. The metal
rallied as central banks and governments maintained low
borrowing costs and spent trillions of dollars to stimulate
economies.  The Fed has left its benchmark interest-rate target at a
record low and pledged to take more steps to spur growth if
necessary. The Bank of Japan this week cut borrowing costs for
the first time since 2008 and set up a 5 trillion yen ($60
billion) fund to buy state bonds and other assets.  Hedging Cut Back  AngloGold, the world’s third-largest gold producer,
eliminated so-called forward-sales agreements at a cost of $2.63
billion. Gold producers sometimes sell future output at fixed
prices to secure loans. They can reduce hedges by buying back
contracts, adding to demand.  De-hedging by AngloGold “should be one of the reasons for
the sharp rise in gold prices” recently, Commerzbank AG
analysts including  Eugen Weinberg  said today in a report. “As
the buybacks have now ended, this demand component will be
absent in future.”  Gold  assets  in ETPs declined 11.91 metric tons to 2,083.67
tons yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg from 10
providers. That’s the biggest drop in two months. Holdings
reached a record 2,097.01 tons on Sept. 30 and are up 16 percent
this year.  The U.S. jobless rate rose to 9.7 percent in September from
9.6 percent last month, according to the median estimate of 83
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Overall payrolls dropped
by 5,000, economists estimate.  Quantitative Easing  “Investors may be hesitant to enter new long positions
ahead of the key U.S. non-farm payrolls report,” Phillip
Futures analysts including Teoh Say Hwa wrote in a note today.
“A persistently weak labor market will increase the likelihood
of more quantitative easing by the Fed to boost the economy.”  Vietnam’s central bank allowed 10 gold traders to import
the precious metal, online newswire VnExpress reported today,
citing Governor  Nguyen Van Giau . Vietnam’s central bank may
allow businesses to import gold to “stabilize the market,”
online newswire VnEconomy reported yesterday, citing  Nguyen Quang Huy , head of the State Bank of Vietnam’s department for
foreign-currency management.  Silver for December delivery in New York lost 0.3 percent
to $22.515 an ounce, cutting its gain to 2.1 percent this week.
The metal yesterday reached a 30-year high of $23.53.  Platinum for January delivery fell 1.2 percent to $1,684.60
an ounce, after touching $1,730 yesterday, the highest price
since May 14. Palladium for December delivery was 1.5 percent
lower at $578.50 after climbing to $606.25 yesterday, the
highest price since June 2001.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Larkin  in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 