-- Greenspan Says U.S. Creating `Scary' Deficit By Borrowing
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   a n d   T h o m a s   K e e n e
-- 2010-10-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/greenspan-says-u-s-engaged-in-dangerous-game-as-debt-deficits-increase.html
Former Federal Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan  said the U.S. fiscal deficit is “scary” and the
federal government needs to cut spending on  entitlements .  “We’re involved in a dangerous game,” Greenspan said
yesterday at a foreign-exchange conference in New York sponsored
by Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News. “We’re
increasing the debt held by the public at a pace that is
closing” the gap between our debt and “any measure of
borrowing capacity,” Greenspan said. “That cushion is growing
very narrow.”  U.S. companies may be holding back on investment because of
the rising federal  deficit , which causes uncertainty about
future tax policies, Greenspan said in an opinion article for
the Financial Times this week. Weak investment by businesses in
capital equipment and fixed assets has helped to crimp the U.S.
economic recovery, he said.  “You need” austerity, said Greenspan, a paid speaker at
the event. “We’re going to have to start to cut” from
government entitlement programs, he said, adding that reducing
the budget is better than raising taxes in closing the U.S.
budget deficit. Still, Greenspan reiterated that he supports
allowing tax cuts enacted under President  George W. Bush  to
lapse at the end of 2010.  The White House Office of Management and Budget in July
projected the deficit for fiscal 2010, which ended Sept. 30, at
$1.47 trillion and the gap for fiscal 2011 at $1.42 trillion.
President  Barack Obama  formed a commission in February charged
with presenting a plan by Dec. 1 on how to reduce deficits over
the next decade.  Succeeded by Bernanke  Greenspan, 84, was chairman of the Fed from 1987 until
2006, when he was succeeded by  Ben S. Bernanke .  “It is crucially important that we put U.S. fiscal policy
on a sustainable path,” Bernanke said in an Oct. 4 speech.  “The only real question” is whether adjustments to taxes
and spending will come from a “careful and deliberative
process” or from a “rapid and painful response to a looming or
actual fiscal crisis,” Bernanke said in Providence, Rhode
Island. U.S. lawmakers should consider adopting rules that limit
federal spending or debt, he said.  Greenspan said that if the Fed decides to expand its
balance sheet through purchases of bonds, a process known as
quantitative easing, it may not be enough to get “money
moving” and spur growth in the U.S. economy.  Should the Fed increase “excess reserves and they just sit
there on the asset side of commercial banks’ balance sheets not
being relent, you’ve merely gone through an interesting
bookkeeping exercise,” Greenspan said. “You’ve got to break
that psychology that prevents that current trillion” in
reserves from being relent, he said.  Record Low  Two-year Treasury  yields  fell to the lowest ever yesterday,
setting or matching a record for a fifth consecutive day.
Investors have stepped up bets that the Fed will resume buying
bonds to keep borrowing costs low.  “It is very difficult to think through the scenario by
which you induce” commercial banks to lend, Greenspan said.
“If you don’t do this, quantitative easing can’t do anything to
speak of.”  U.S. central bankers have kept their  benchmark lending rate 
near zero for almost two years. In March, they finished $1.7
trillion in purchases of Treasuries, mortgage-backed securities
and housing agency bonds.  A slowdown in growth in the middle two quarters of this
year prompted the  Federal Open Market Committee  last month to
warn that inflation rates were “somewhat below” its mandate to
achieve stable prices and full employment.  New York Fed President  William Dudley , who is also vice
chairman of the FOMC, went further in an Oct. 1 speech when he
called current levels of unemployment and inflation
“unacceptable.”  “Further action is likely to be warranted,” Dudley said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Caroline Salas  in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas R. Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  