-- Gross Says Employment Report Signals More Fed Easing: Tom Keene
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2010-10-08T21:24:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/gross-says-employment-report-a-signal-for-more-fed-easing.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
 Bill Gross  said the U.S. may face a prolonged period of
stagnation should anticipated asset purchases by the Federal
Reserve fail to invigorate economic growth.  “You could have significant problems with a ‘lost decade’
for the United States,” Gross, manager of the world’s biggest
mutual fund, said during a Bloomberg Television interview on
“Street Smart with  Carol Massar  and  Matt Miller .” “They’re
trying to prevent a caving in of the U.S. economy.”  Employers cut staffing by 95,000 workers after a revised
57,000 decrease in August, Labor Department figures in
Washington showed today. The median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 5,000 drop. The
 unemployment rate  held at 9.6 percent.  The September employment report “is simply a signal, a
strong, strong signal for Fed QE2,” Gross said. “We will
respond by riding the wave and then trying to anticipate when to
get off. There is a certain point in terms of yield levels where
it no longer makes sense.”  Yields on Treasuries maturing in five years and less have
tumbled to record lows since Fed officials hinted in August
about renewed purchases when saying they would begin reinvesting
proceeds from maturing mortgage holdings back into Treasuries to
keep money from leaving the financial system. Policy makers
completed purchases of about $1.7 trillion of debt in March.  Quantitative Easing  The central bank may buy about $100 billion in government
debt a month, or $1.2 trillion over the next year, in a
resumption of a policy that’s become known as quantitative
easing, Gross said in a radio interview earlier today on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .  Federal Reserve Bank of New York President William Dudley
said Oct. 1 that the outlook for U.S. job growth and inflation
is “unacceptable” and that the Fed will probably need to take
action to spur the recovery and avert deflation.  “Dudley spoke to 2 percent in terms of inflation target
and he meant that the under level of inflation that we’ve been
attaining for the past 12 to 18 months would have to be made
up,” Gross said. “In other words, he would be willing to
accept more than 2 percent inflation for a 12- to 18- to 24-
month period of time in order to get back to that target.”  That echoes comments from International Monetary Fund Chief
Economist  Olivier Blanchard  in February, who told the Wall
Street Journal that he would “strongly argue” for an inflation
target of 4 percent, instead of the 2 percent favored by most
policy makers. Higher inflation would give central bankers more
room to adjust rates and make them less reliant on fiscal
policy, Blanchard said. The Fed should probably follow such a
strategy, Gross said.  Favorable for Stocks  An optimal target would be 2.5 percent to 3 percent, Gross
said, because a higher target would have the potential to push
long-term bond yields higher, and with them borrowing costs
throughout the economy.  “If and when we do that, then that’s a very favorable type
of proposal for risk assets that wheel off inflation -- in other
words stocks,” Gross said.  The risk of the Fed producing hyper-inflation that once
generated would prove to rein in is “years” away, Gross said.
“I don’t have any concerns, and I don’t think the Fed does,
either.”  Yields on two-year  Treasury notes , which touched a record
low of 0.3351 percent today, have already fallen to levels that
makes them no longer attractive, and the three-year note yields
are approaching the same, Gross said.  ‘Buy the Middle’  “On the other side, the 30 years are reflecting the
potential impact of inflationary policies from QE2 and they are
widening out,” Gross added in the interview.  “What an investor wants to do, if you are buying
Treasuries, is to buy the middle, 5’s, 6’s and 7-” year notes,
Gross said in the interview.  Gross  reduced  the $252 billion  Total Return Fund  investment
in government-related debt to 36 percent of assets in August,
from 54 percent the previous month, according to the latest
available data on the website of Newport Beach, California-based
Pimco. That equaled the lowest amount since April. The fund also
boosted mortgage debt to 21 percent from 18 percent, the most
since September 2009. Pimco doesn’t comment directly on monthly
changes in portfolio holdings.  Dollar Decline  The dollar dropped below 82 yen for the first time since
1995 after the payrolls report, with the greenback was headed
for a fourth weekly decline against the euro as the weak labor
market encouraged speculation additional Fed asset purchases
will debase the currency.  Even as the Fed is easing policy to bolster growth, the
U.S. actually wants a weaker dollar, according to Gross. A
weaker currency can boost exports, and stimulate economic
growth.  “Both Japan and the U.S. and of course the U.K. to come,
are engaged in this second and third rounds of quantitative
easing,” Gross said in the interview. “Now it’s a question of
who is printing the most. The yen strengthened today under the
assumption that the U.S. will print more than Japan on a
relative basis.”  The Total Return Fund returned 11 percent in the past 12
months, beating 82 percent of its peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It gained 1.8 percent over the past
month, a  performance  superior to 80 percent of competitors.
Pimco, a unit of the Munich-based insurer Allianz SE, managed
$1.1 trillion of assets as of June 30.  Pimco’s U.S. government-related debt category can include
conventional and inflation-linked Treasuries, agency debt,
interest-rate derivatives, Treasury futures and options and bank
debt backed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., according to
the firm’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Liz Capo McCormick  in New York at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net . 