-- Guy Fieri Cooks for Hunger, Closes Out New York Food Festival
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2010-10-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/guy-fieri-cooks-for-hunger-closes-out-new-york-food-festival.html
With his tattoos and bleached-blond
panache, Food Network star  Guy Fieri  has become a fundraising
must-have for food- and hunger-related causes.  His Triple Ten Closing Party Sunday night at City Winery
will cap the third annual  Food Network New York City Wine & Food
Festival , which began Thursday.  The $150-a-person event hosted by Fieri and featuring
singer-songwriter Butch Walker sold out within days. Part of the
festival’s proceeds will go to  Share Our Strength , a Washington-
based nonprofit that combats child hunger, and  Food Bank for New
York City , which distributes goods to about 1,000 food-
assistance programs citywide.  The 950 tickets for Fieri’s  cooking demonstrations  at the
New School’s Tishman Auditorium in Manhattan on Saturday and
Sunday also sold out within days.  “My demos are just a little wild,” said Fieri, 42, who
will show attendees how to whip up a plate of duck fried rice
and blackened sesame salmon with noodle salad. “When the crowds
show up, they’re amped and they’re pumped.”  Fieri traces his charitable work to a childhood encounter
with a homeless man in California, where he grew up. “I was
just devastated,” said Fieri, whose Food Network show is called
“ Diners, Drive-Ins and Dives .” He also hosts  “Guy’s Big Bite”  on
the channel and the quirky talent show “ Minute to Win It ” on
NBC.  This year, he is launching his Guy Fieri Foundation for
Inspiration and Imagination to motivate children to reach their
goals through cooking and other activities.  Bobby Flay  Seminars and demonstrations at the Wine & Food Festival
this week will be conducted by Fieri’s fellow Food Network stars
such as  Giada De Laurentiis ,  Alton Brown ,  Bobby Flay  and
 Masaharu Morimoto , and are all sold out.  “They’ve put together the ultimate rock arena for
chefs,” Fieri said.  While living in  Ferndale  in northern California, Fieri
started his culinary career at age 10, selling pretzels from a
three-wheel bicycle cart he built with his father called “The
Awesome Pretzel.”  Although some fans have pegged him as an aficionado of
burgers, barbecue and fried foods, he grew up on a  macrobiotic 
diet and got his first taste of European cuisine as a high-
school exchange student in  Chantilly, France .  “Probably the thing I enjoy the least is fried foods,”
said Fieri. “I was eating sushi when I was 8 years old.”  After graduating from  University of Nevada, Las Vegas , with
a degree in hospitality management, he launched  Johnny Garlic’s ,
an Italian-influenced pasta grill in California’s Sonoma County
with his business partner, Steve Gruber.  Tootsie Roll  He followed up with  Tex Wasabi’s , a sushi-southern barbecue
fusion restaurant that serves up unique dishes such as a Tootsie
Roll (a tempura-battered roll with smoked salmon and chili
powder) and New York steak with wasabi butter.  “Who said that I had to be stuck in one style of
cuisine?” Fieri said. “There are no boundaries.”  The Food Network’s New York Food and Wine Festival
continues through Sunday. Information:
 http://www.nycwineandfoodfestival.com/2010/events.php?s=1   To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 