-- Milbank Targets Listings in Hong Kong, China Deals With Mallesons Hire
-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 2010-10-08T10:08:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/milbank-hires-mallesons-s-yih-to-target-hong-kong-share-sales-china-deals.html
Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy LLP 
hired  Dieter Yih  from Mallesons Stephen Jaques to become the
latest New York law firm to set up a Hong Kong law practice
targeting listings there and deals with Chinese companies.  “Hong Kong is becoming a global listing center and we
expect that trend to continue,” said  Anthony Root , head of
Milbank’s China practice. Yih will join on Jan. 1, Root said.  Companies including Moscow-based United Co. Rusal and
French beauty-product maker L’Occitane International SA have
sold stock in Hong Kong this year and Milbank is advising
Mongolian Mining Corp. on how its $651 million initial public
offering needs to comply with U.S. laws.  Wall Street firms Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP, Weil Gotshal &
Manges LLP and Shearman & Sterling LLP, have hired new partners
and established Hong Kong law capability in the past year as
they bet that the special administrative region of China is the
key to fees from the world’s fastest-growing major  economy .  Chinese companies listed in Hong Kong will also be looking
for international acquisitions said  Antony Dapiran , who joins
Davis Polk from London-based Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP
next month.  “There are a lot of opportunities in this market and it’s
growing a lot more than others,” he said. Public offerings
announced for the city have jumped 40 percent this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mining Companies  Yih, who joined Sydney-based Mallesons in 2004 in Hong
Kong, has advised on share sales for companies including
Mongolian Mining and Real Gold Mining Ltd. He will initially
join Milbank’s U.S. partnership until the firm establishes a
Hong Kong partnership.  Milbank will have 20 lawyers in its Hong Kong and Beijing
offices next year, up from 15 now, Root said in an interview.  Mallesons Managing Partner Stuart Fuller said in a
statement today the firm remains “excited about the prospects
for growth” in their Hong Kong office, now its third largest.  The number of foreign law firms in Hong Kong has almost
doubled to 70 since 2004 as Chinese companies’ share of Hong
Kong’s  market capitalization  has risen to half from less than 5
percent in 1993. That’s a challenge to London-based firms in the
former British colony, the only part of China where foreign
lawyers can advise on local law.  Changed World  “The world has changed in the last five years,” Root
said. The U.S. is no longer the preeminent source of capital and
Hong Kong is now attracting companies from the rest of Asia and
Europe as well as China to list, he said.  U.S. firms, including Milbank, first opened Hong Kong
offices in the 1970s, with most New York firms focused on
offering advice on U.S. law until 2005 when Skadden, Arps,
Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP hired two partners from London firms
to offer Hong Kong advice.  While British firms have a longer track record in Hong
Kong, China’s ties and deal flows with the U.S. will continue to
grow significantly, said  Michael Liu , the Hong Kong managing
partner of Los Angeles-based Latham & Watkins LLP.  “The top U.S. firms are bound to prosper in the long term
and are likely to constitute the majority of the most successful
international law firms in China,” said Liu, who joined Latham &
Watkins in 2009 from London-based Allen & Overy LLP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Debra Mao  in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  