-- Milk Rising 66%, Surging Produce Prices Force Baltics to Target Cartels
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s   a n d   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e
-- 2010-10-08T11:05:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/milk-prices-rising-66-trigger-baltic-price-fixing-probes-to-ensure-growth.html
Estonian milk prices have jumped 66
percent in the past year. The cost of some vegetables has more
than doubled.  Price increases across the Baltic region are forcing
regulators to step up price-fixing investigations and
politicians to call for tighter regulation of corporate profits
as government officials seek to head off inflation that
threatens to stall recovery from the world’s deepest recessions.  “I certainly deplore situations where someone raises
prices without a reason,” Estonian President  Toomas Ilves  told
the country’s food producers’ lobby Sept. 29. “I urge the
consumer protection and competition watchdogs to pay particular
attention to what is happening to our prices.”  Estonia  said yesterday that September annual inflation was
the fastest in 20 months at 4 percent. Lithuanian prices rose
0.6 percent, the biggest monthly  jump  since January, the
statistics office said today. The small size of the Baltic
markets and a drive to reduce regulation to boost living
standards after communism has made them more vulnerable to
global price increases than larger countries, economists say.  In Estonia, regulators are concerned that the country’s
plan to adopt the euro on Jan. 1 is giving companies an added
excuse to raise prices.  Estonian food prices rose 5.3 percent through August from
their November lows, compared with the European Union average of
1.5 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Latvian
prices increased 3.2 percent and Lithuania’s 1.6 percent.  Latvia recorded annual inflation for the first time in a
year in September, with prices rising 0.4 percent driven by food
costs, the statistics office said today.  Economic Threat  Accelerating inflation may derail the region’s economic
recovery, said  Violeta Klyviene , an analyst at Danske Bank A/S
in Vilnius, Lithuania. In 2008, inflation accelerated to 10.6
percent in Estonia, 15.3 percent in Latvia and 11.1 percent in
Lithuania, choking off domestic demand and contributing to the
collapse of a property bubble.  “Global food price rises become a new risk factor for
Baltic inflation,” Klyviene said. “The Baltic economies tend
to absorb price shocks to a much larger extent, pushing
inflation higher, as the main players on the Baltic market are
likely to abuse their dominant position domestically.”  Estonian prosecutors and competition authorities started an
inquiry into dairy prices last month, after most leading
retailers, including the Selver supermarket chain of  AS Tallinna
Kaubamaja , raised milk prices by 25 percent on Sept. 21. They
launched a probe into a possible bread cartel in August, when
the bread producers lobby announced plans to boost prices by 10
percent to 20 percent.  ‘Wake-Up Call’  Lithuanian President  Dalia Grybauskaite  threatened this
week to cap retailers’ profits if returns from food prices
continue to rise.  The Baltic states, which were part of the Soviet Union
until 1991, may have waited too long to regulate market
consolidation “as they believed too much in the market
regulating itself” and rapid economic growth masked the issue,
said  Maris Lauri , chief economist at Swedbank AB in Tallinn, the
Estonian capital.  “It is difficult to improve competition in small markets,
and one should probably try to avoid different markets from
concentrating too much,” Lauri said. “Certainly in many cases
this wake-up call comes too late. Another thing is careful
supervision. Its importance has increased, not least by euro
entry in Estonia’s case.”  ‘Few Tools’  Estonia has “few tools” to control price increases, Prime
Minister  Andrus Ansip  said last month, after European Central
Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said Estonia must remain
“alert” on price developments and take “forceful” action on
inflation after joining the euro-region economy.  Martin Breuer, chairman of the foreign investors’ lobby in
Estonia, said the level of competition plays “no particular
role” in price increases, which stem from global developments.  “We will have to pay a price for market size and
geographic location,” Breuer said in an e-mail. “The minimum
scale of operation needed for suppliers of goods to operate
efficiently on the one hand, and on the other hand the small
market size will occasionally result in undesired market
dominance by too few suppliers.”  The rising profit margins of Estonian retailers are at
least part of the reason for recent price increases, central
bank economist  Martin Lindpere  said in a statement last month.
Profit margins in unspecialized stores, where food, drink and
tobacco are dominant items, rose to 20 percent in the second
quarter from 18 percent at the end of last year, he said.  ‘Inappropriate’ Suggestion  Prices for milk rose 41 percent in the 12 months through
early September, according to the  Konjunktuuriinstituut  research
institute. That was before the 25 percent increase. Vegetable
prices increased by between 11 percent and 107 percent. Pork,
poultry and bread prices declined, the institute said.  The Estonian Food Producers’ Association blamed rising
prices on tax increases and higher production costs. Increases
in the value-added tax, as well as levies on fuel and alcohol,
were “swallowed” by producers and retailers during the
recession and are only now being felt by consumers, Chairman
Sirje Potisepp said.  “It is inappropriate to suggest profit margins are
increasing now,” she said. “There’s cut-throat competition on
the Estonian food market between producers and retailers and in
competition with imported goods.”  Theory Versus Practice  Competition among Lithuania’s four biggest retail chains --
Maxima, Rimi, Iki and Norfa -- is “in theory, but not in
practice,” lawmaker Valentinas Mazuronis said this week on the
TV show  Lietuvos Rytas . Mazuronis’ Law & Order party has
proposed capping profit on food products at 20 percent for
wholesalers and 25 percent for retailers.  Lithuania’s  Competition Council  is examining trends in food
prices to determine if retailers had confidential price
agreements.  “Growing profits of retail chains on fundamental food
products are an audacious exploitation of consumers,”
Lithuanian President  Dalia Grybauskaite  said in a statement Oct.
5. “Such actions by retail chains are intolerable and
unjustifiable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ott Ummelas  in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   Milda Seputyte  in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  