-- IMF Should Seek More Ways to Cope With Increasing Capital Flows, Yoon Says
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S i m
-- 2010-10-08T22:40:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/imf-should-seek-more-ways-to-cope-with-increasing-capital-flows-yoon-says.html
The International Monetary Fund and
its member countries should seek more ways to cope with rising
capital flows to emerging markets, South Korea’s Finance
Minister  Yoon Jeung Hyun  said.  “We should deeply explore various ideas and policy options
to mitigate the side effects of the increased capital flow,”
 Yoon  said in prepared remarks at the annual meetings of the IMF
and the World Bank that started yesterday in Washington.  Global exchange-rate policies are a source of contention
ahead of this week’s talks, with U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  warning on Oct. 6 of a “damaging dynamic” of
competitive weakening that could limit global growth. Countries
from China to Brazil and South Korea are stepping up efforts to
cool gains in their currencies as investors pour a record amount
of money into emerging markets.  Asia has attracted $2 billion of capital inflows daily
since April 2009 as investors seek higher returns, according to
 DBS Group Holdings Ltd . Central bank purchases of debt and
currency intervention in developed economies are “flooding
markets with liquidity,”  David Carbon , head of economic and
currency research at DBS in Singapore, said in an Oct. 7 report.  “We should remain vigilant against possible side effects
because several macroeconomic risk factors still exist,” Yoon
said. “These factors include high economic volatility through
asset price channels and concerns over the possibility of the
recurrence of a sudden stop in capital flow.”  Won Climbs  The Korean won climbed more than 7 percent in the past
three months and Brazil’s real gained about 5 percent.  South Korean regulators will start an audit of banks
handling foreign-currency derivatives on Oct. 19, and Brazil
doubled a tax it charges foreigners on investments in fixed-
income securities to 4 percent this week.  Brazil’s Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  last week warned of
a “currency war” as governments in Asia and Latin America seek
to spur exports and economic growth. Earlier this week, Geithner
called for cooperation to rebalance currency markets, as more
countries face pressure to “lean against the market forces
pushing up the value of their currencies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Sim  in Seoul at 
 wsim2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  