-- Government Said to Consider Allowing Foreign Retail Buying of India Stocks
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n   a n d   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2010-10-08T07:56:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/india-said-to-consider-allowing-foreign-individual-investors-to-buy-stocks.html
India may allow overseas individuals
to buy stocks for the first time, easing a rule that restricts
investment to mutual funds, a finance ministry official with 
direct knowledge of the matter said.  Some  government  officials see no need to differentiate
between India-focused mutual funds and foreign retail investors,
the official said, declining to be identified because the review
of the rule is confidential. The  finance ministry  may set a
limit on the amount individuals can invest, the official said.  The  Securities and Exchange Board of India , the capital
markets regulator, sees no let up in institutional investment
from overseas that has driven the Sensitive Index to near an
all-time high, Chairman  C.B. Bhave  said yesterday. The rule
change may add to the $92 billion foreign funds have poured into
local stocks since they were allowed into the country in 1993,
with almost a quarter invested this year.  “It indicates continued liberalization of the stock market
and represents another step in internationalizing of India’s
financial markets,” said  Dariusz Kowalczyk , Hong Kong-based
chief economist for Credit Agricole CIB. “It’s favorable for
local equities and the move would broaden the pool of funds they
can access to expand business”  Greater Access  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  is allowing greater foreign
participation in financial markets as he seeks capital for
building roads and power plants in a nation ranked below Ivory
Coast and Sri Lanka for the quality of infrastructure by the
World Economic Forum’s Global Competitiveness Index. Last month,
he increased the overseas investment cap for government and
corporate bonds by $5 billion each to a total of $30 billion.  Policy makers in Asia’s third-biggest economy have been
traditionally wary of a surge in capital inflows because
possible panic withdrawals by foreigners have the potential to
cause financial instability, said  D.H. Pai Panandiker , president
of RPG Foundation, an economic research group in New Delhi.  “The move shows the fear is ebbing,” Panandiker said.
“There’s confidence there won’t be much of outflows even in
worst of times.”  Purchases of Indian shares by funds based overseas reached
a record $22 billion this year as the economy weathered a global
recession triggered by the 2008 credit crisis.  Sensex, Rupee  The purchases are unlikely to reverse, SEBI’s Bhave said in
an interview with Bloomberg UTV yesterday in Mumbai.  “We have no reason to believe, at least if we go by
historical evidence, that there will be a sudden reversal,” he
said. For overseas investors “it’s important that there is
supply of enough paper,” otherwise asset prices may surge.  A planned share sale this month by Coal India Ltd., the
world’s biggest producer, will add to the 753 billion rupees
($17 billion) raised by the nation’s companies this year.  Gross domestic product , estimated at $1.3 trillion, is
likely to expand 9.7 percent this year, the International
Monetary Fund said this week, raising an earlier forecast for
9.4 percent growth. The  Sensex  has risen 26 percent from a May
25 low, while the rupee has strengthened 7.5 percent in the same
period with rising inflows.  The government doesn’t need to restrict foreign
institutional investment and foreign direct investment at this
time, Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee , said yesterday in
Washington after the rupee’s surge to a two-year high spurred
concerns India will curb capital and stem the currency’s gains.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Unni Krishnan  in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net ;
 Anto Antony  in New Delhi at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net ;
Sam Nagarajan at   samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  