-- Carmakers in India Double Annual Growth Forecast on Economy, New Models
-- B y   A n o o p   A g r a w a l   a n d   S u b r a m a n i a m   S h a r m a
-- 2010-10-08T08:09:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/indian-automakers-double-annual-sales-growth-forecast-update1-.html
India’s automaking association
doubled its forecast for car-sales growth this fiscal year as
rising incomes and new models prompted drivers to buy a record
number of vehicles for a third straight month.  Car sales may gain about 23 percent in the year ending
March, compared with the 12 percent growth predicted in July,
the Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers said today. Sales
rose 30 percent to 169,082 units in September, the group said.  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. , the nation’s biggest carmaker,
 Ford Motor Co.  and Toyota Motor Corp. are introducing new models
and adding capacity as expansion in Asia’s second-fastest
growing major economy stokes demand. Bayerische Motoren Werke AG
also this week said it will invest $50 million in a financial
services unit in India.  “Companies have realized there is good demand and their
priority is to raise production capacity,” said  Puneet Gupta ,
principal analyst at IHS Automotive in Gurgaon, near New Delhi.
“The Indian consumer now wants something new and products that
are comparable globally.”  India’s economy, which has grown an average 8.5 percent
annually in the past five years, will probably match that pace
in the current year, Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  said last
month. The International Monetary Fund this week raised its 2010
growth forecast for the nation to 9.7 percent, citing strong
local consumer demand.  Car sales rose 33 percent in the six months ended Sept. 30
from a year earlier, the group said. Last month’s jump is the
20th year-on-year increase in a row, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “The sales are showing that the underlying growth momentum
is strong,” said  Pawan Goenka , president of the manufacturers’
group, in Mumbai. “As the economic growth strengthens, we see
this trend continuing.”  New entrants such as  Nissan Motor Co.  and  Volkswagen AG  are
competing with Maruti,  Tata Motors Ltd.  and South Korea’s
Hyundai Motor Co., which together account for 84 percent of the
car market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anoop Agrawal  in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net ;
 Subramaniam Sharma  in New Delhi at +91-
   ssharma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 