-- Indonesia Has No Plans to Curb Capital Inflows as Rupiah Gains, Hadad Says
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   R i s h a a d   S a l a m a t
-- 2010-10-08T08:06:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/indonesia-has-no-plans-to-curb-capital-inflows-as-rupiah-gains-hadad-says.html
Bank Indonesia said it has no plans
to curb capital inflows and isn’t worried about the rupiah’s
gains, signaling it considers current measures sufficient to
cope with funds that are coming into the economy.  The central bank isn’t concerned about the rupiah’s
strength “at the moment,” Deputy Governor  Muliaman Hadad  said
in an interview with Bloomberg Television today, speaking from
Jakarta. It also doesn’t plan to follow Brazil in boosting taxes
on foreign investors, he said.  Indonesia’s rupiah was little changed this week on
speculation the central bank intervened to curb gains in the
currency, which reached a three-year high of 8,900 a dollar on
Sept. 30. Bank Indonesia Governor  Darmin Nasution  said in
September any purchases of the U.S. currency would aim to
“prevent the rupiah’s fluctuations from becoming too big.”  Policy makers from Brazil to South Korea have taken steps
to cool gains in their currencies as investors pour money into
emerging and Asian markets, where growth has outperformed that
of developed nations. Bank Indonesia kept borrowing costs at a
record low this week, putting off an interest-rate increase that
could spur capital inflows in Southeast Asia’s largest economy.  “Strengthening is happening to all currencies in emerging
markets,”  Juniman , chief economist at Bank Internasional
Indonesia in Jakarta, said in a telephone interview today. “We
don’t need to worry about a strengthening rupiah. We see that
Bank Indonesia is always in the market and may maintain the
rupiah at about 8,900.”  ‘Find a Balance’  Hadad said the central bank monitors the rupiah’s
development “very closely.”  “We try to find a balance, the level that we think is
appropriate to support our exports and also to maintain internal
stability,” he said.  The nation’s foreign-exchange  reserves  climbed by $5.2
billion last month to a record $86.55 billion, the biggest
increase since April, according to central bank data. Dollar
purchases stemming from intervention are a factor that can boost
the reserves.  Brazil this week doubled a tax it charges foreigners on
investment in fixed-income securities in a bid to stem gains in
the real, while South Korea’s government said that banks
involved in foreign-exchange transactions will face audits.  Bank Indonesia has no plan to follow suit, Hadad said.  “We don’t think we would like to move from our current
direction” of requiring purchasers of central bank notes to
hold them for a minimum of 30 days, he said.  Bank Indonesia maintained its reference rate at 6.5 percent
for a 14th meeting on Oct. 5, keeping the measure at the lowest
level since its introduction in July 2005. Deputy Governor
 Hartadi Sarwono  said this week that using the key rate to curb
inflation may attract funds.  Cash Reserves  Instead, Governor  Darmin Nasution  last month ordered
lenders to set aside more cash as reserves to reduce money
supply. The central bank unveiled measures in June to encourage
investors to keep their money in the country and reduce
volatility in capital flows and the currency.  Demand for higher-yielding assets in Asia, which led the
global rebound from last year’s slump, has stoked gains in
Indonesia’s rupiah and stock market. The  Jakarta Composite Index 
has surged 40 percent this year, boosting stocks such as lender
 PT Bank Central Asia  and noodle-maker  PT Indofood Sukses Makmur .  Investors have been attracted to a market where the
 benchmark interest rate  is 6.5 percent, compared with Malaysia’s
2.75 percent, Thailand’s 1.75 percent and the Philippines’ 4
percent.  Avoiding a Recession  The country also avoided joining neighboring Singapore,
Malaysia and Thailand in sliding into a recession last year as
it’s less reliant on exports, while the re-election of President
 Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  to a second term last year boosted
confidence in an economy that had to seek an International
Monetary Fund bailout during the 1997-98 Asian financial crisis.  The Indonesian government and the parliament’s budget
working committee agreed to raise the economic growth forecast
in the 2011 state budget to 6.4 percent from 6.3 percent, Agus
Supriyanto, acting head of the fiscal policy agency at the
finance ministry, said by telephone today.  Bank Indonesia expects the  economy  to expand 6 percent to
6.3 percent in 2010, and between 6 percent and 6.5 percent next
year, it said Oct. 5.  A central-bank deadline for lenders to reach a minimum
capital of 100 billion rupiah ($11.2 million) comes at the end
of this year, and banks that haven’t met the target may be
downgraded, limiting the services they can offer, Hadad said.
Any possible increases in the capital requirement would be
implemented gradually, he said.  Small lenders will be required to tell the central bank
next week about their plans to maintain their capital level,
Hadad said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net  