-- Islamic Market Short-Term Liquidity Products to Boost Cross-Border Flows
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2010-10-08T06:17:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/islamic-market-short-term-liquidity-products-to-boost-cross-border-flows.html
The  Islamic Financial Services Board ,
a global standard-setting body for the industry with $1 trillion
in assets, is forming an institution that will issue short-term
products to help Shariah-compliant banks manage funds.  Central bank governors and representatives from
multinational institutions signed the agreement to establish the
International Islamic Liquidity Management Corp. in Washington
yesterday during a meeting between the International Monetary
Fund and the World Bank, IFSB said in an e-mailed statement
today.  “The IILM will provide liquid short-term Shariah-compliant
instruments” and “facilitate greater investment flows of
Shariah-compliant instruments across borders,” IFSB said. The
institution will be formally established on Oct. 25 in Kuala
Lumpur, where IFSB is based, it said.  Regulators of the Islamic financial industry are trying to
develop products for Islamic banks and borrowers to boost
trading. Demand for services complying with Shariah law is
increasing about 15 percent annually as Muslim wealth rises,
according to ISFB, which  forecasts  the industry’s assets will
climb to $1.6 trillion by 2012.  The  International Islamic Financial Services Market ,
another global body founded by the central banks of Bahrain,
Indonesia and Malaysia, said Aug. 17 it was working to create
Shariah-compliant repurchase agreements. The liquidity
management products will use a profit rate, unlike conventional
repos, where traders post securities as collateral for cash and
agree to buy them back at a specified price and date, earning or
paying the difference as interest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Soraya Permatasari  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 