-- Israel Signals Settlement Compromise to Save Talks
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2010-10-08T11:22:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/israel-settlement-compromise-may-avoid-collapse-of-talks-with-palestinians.html
Israel signaled that a compromise may
be reached in a dispute over settlement construction in the West
Bank that threatens to derail U.S.-brokered peace talks with the
Palestinians.  Incentives offered by the Obama administration to Israel
may allow Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  to push through his
Cabinet a limited renewal of the 10-month freeze on West Bank
settlement construction that expired last month, Israel’s
ambassador to the U.S. said.  “The U.S. has come back to Israel with a number of
suggestions, incentives if you would, that enable the government
to maybe pass a limited extension of two or three months,”
Ambassador  Michael Oren  told the Washington Post.  The Palestinians have threatened to pull out of the peace
talks if Israel continues to build in West Bank settlements.
Netanyahu said on Oct. 4 that he was in “sensitive diplomatic
contacts” with the U.S. administration to find a solution to
the crisis that would let the talks continue. Israel’s partial
halt of building in settlements expired Sept. 26.  The start of peace talks has seen an increase in violence.
Israel said its army today killed two members of Hamas that it
suspected of involvement in an attack near a West Bank
settlement in August that left four Israelis dead. The military
wing of Hamas, the Al-Qassam Brigades, vowed to avenge today’s
killings “by all possible means.”  Temporary Extension  Palestinian leaders from President  Mahmoud Abbas ’s Fatah
movement who are conducting the talks with Israel have indicated
a willingness to accept a temporary extension of the building
moratorium. Arab League chief  Amre Moussa  said in an interview
that Arab foreign ministers will today renew a demand for a
construction freeze.  Abbas remains adamant that the talks, which began on Sept.
2, can’t proceed while settlement construction continues, Moussa
said. “This is everybody’s position,” he said. “We’re not
against negotiations but we’re not just doing it for show.”  Abbas will brief Arab ministers today in the town of Sirte,
Libya. The group will include representatives from Qatar, Egypt,
Saudi Arabia, Jordan, Syria and Lebanon.  “We want a freeze of all settlement activities and then we
can get as quickly as possible to completing the first part of
an agreement, on borders and security,” Palestinian negotiator
 Nabil Shaath  said in a phone interview. Once agreement is
reached on the borders of a future Palestinian state, it would
“end the issue of settlements,” as Israel would then be able
to build freely in all areas under its sovereignty, Shaath said.  ‘Playing Games’  Shaath said Israel was currently “playing games” and
“bargaining for goodies from the Americans.”  Netanyahu will bring a proposal to his Cabinet on Sunday to
change the citizenship oath to include swearing allegiance to
Israel as a Jewish, democratic state, an Israeli official said
Oct. 6. The oath will only apply to non-Jews seeking
citizenship.  The loyalty oath is a key demand of Foreign Minister
 Avigdor Lieberman , who leads Yisrael Beitenu, the second-biggest
party in Netanyahu’s coalition, and has threatened to block a
renewal of the freeze. Lieberman lives in a West Bank
settlement.  The change is aimed at easing Lieberman’s opposition, said
 Uri Dromi , a government spokesman under the late Prime Minister
 Yitzhak Rabin .  “It is tactically good for Netanyahu to keep Lieberman in
the coalition,” Dromi said. “In a cynical way, this thing,
which is a major issue on a constitutional level and should have
been discussed in the most serious way, is now rushed to the
table to serve a political emergency.”  Lieberman Backing  Lieberman welcomed Netanyahu’s proposal, and said that
stressing Israel’s Jewish and democratic nature was essential
after incidents such as the participation of an Israeli Arab
parliament member in a Gaza Strip-bound aid flotilla in May. The
ships attempted to breach an Israeli blockade on the Hamas-
controlled territory. Parliament’s House Committee has
recommended lifting the lawmaker’s immunity from prosecution.  Eyal Gabbay, director general of Netanyahu’s office, said
on Army Radio yesterday that there was “no connection” between
the peace talks and the proposed change to the oath.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net  