-- Hitachi Construction Output to Break Record on China
-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a   a n d   Y a s u m a s a   S o n g
-- 2010-10-08T06:47:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/hitachi-construction-to-boost-excavator-output-to-record-on-china-demand.html
Hitachi Construction Machinery Co. ,
the world’s biggest maker of giant excavators, plans to produce
a record number of machines in the fiscal second half because of
higher-than-estimated demand in China.  Components to assemble 25,000 excavators are expected to be
produced in the six months ending March 31, Chief Executive
Officer  Michijiro Kikawa  said in an interview at the company’s
headquarters in Tokyo. That’s 32 percent higher than the 19,000
units in the fiscal first half.  Demand in China, the world’s largest user of excavators,
may increase 33 percent this fiscal year as the nation’s
stimulus plan stokes a construction boom, Kikawa said. The
government is funding roads, railway networks and buildings to
develop China’s hinterland, driving demand for excavators, wheel
loaders and other construction machinery.  “Boosting production is backed by strong orders,” said
 Hiroyuki Soma , an analyst at Mizuho Investors Securities Co. who
rates the stock “neutral plus.” “Chinese demand is strong as
we all know, while declines are stopping in developed
countries.”  Hitachi Construction, 50 percent owned by  Hitachi Ltd. ,
rose 0.1 percent to 1,836 yen, reversing a decline of as much as
1 percent, at the 3 p.m. close of trading on the Tokyo Stock
Exchange. The  stock  has fallen 24 percent this year as a rising
yen eroded profit.  Stronger Yen  Earnings  will probably fail to keep pace with the growth in
demand because of a strengthening yen, Kikawa said. The currency
hit a new 15-year high against the dollar yesterday, eroding the
competitiveness of Japanese exporters.  The currency traded at 82.33 to the dollar as of 1:15 p.m.
in Tokyo, compared with the 88 yen rate Hitachi Construction had
expected from the second quarter of the fiscal year.  “The yen is unlikely to go back to previous levels soon,”
Soma said. “It’s inevitable earnings will be impacted.”  Net income will rise 74 percent to 7 billion yen ($84.9
million) for the year ending March 31, while operating profit
will double to 40 billion yen, Hitachi Construction forecast in
July. Sales will probably increase 22 percent to 740 billion yen.  “Sales won’t exceed a peak because of the yen,” Kikawa
said, without giving a new forecast.  The company is likely to maintain its operating profit
outlook this fiscal year as stronger demand is offset by the
increased value of the yen, said  Hidehiko Hoshino , an analyst at
UBS Securities Japan Ltd.  China  Hitachi Construction is the third-largest excavator maker
in China, with a 15.9 percent market share, ranking after
Japan’s  Komatsu Ltd.  and South Korea’s Doosan Infracore Co.  “Nothing can stop urban construction and the government’s
investments in the western and northeastern regions,” Kikawa,
63, said yesterday.  China may need as many as 97,000 excavators for the year
ending March 31, compared with a July estimate of 92,700 units,
Kikawa said. The nation accounted for half the global market
last year with sales of 73,000 units.  His comments come amid concern the Chinese government’s
efforts to cool down the country’s property market will weaken
demand for construction machinery. “We had expected China’s
growth would slow due to the government’s tightening measures,
but actually it didn’t,” Kikawa said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Masumi Suga  in Tokyo at   msuga@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  