-- J.C. Penney, Fortune Swaps Jump After Ackman Stakes Disclosed
-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2010-10-08T21:26:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/j-c-penney-swaps-climb-to-most-in-15-months-after-ackman-discloses-stake.html
Credit-default swaps on J.C. Penney
Co. and  Fortune Brands Inc.  jumped to the highest in more than a
year after Pershing Square Capital Management LP disclosed
stakes that make the firm the biggest shareholder in both
companies.  The cost to protect against losses on J.C. Penney bonds
jumped 26 basis points to a mid-price of 246 basis points, the
highest since July 2009, according to data provider CMA. The
contracts jumped 29 basis points in late trading yesterday, the
most in 17 months, before activist investor  William Ackman ’s
Pershing Square disclosed its stake, according to broker Phoenix
Partners Group. Swaps on Fortune, the maker of Moen faucets and
Jim Beam bourbon, climbed 42 basis points to 169.5, CMA data
show.  “Mr. Ackman is a persistent and ingenious investor and not
a friend or advocate of high credit quality,”  Carol Levenson ,
director of research at Gimme Credit LLC in Chicago, said today
in a note. She downgraded the research firm’s credit score on
the department-store chain to “deteriorating” from “stable.”  Pershing Square disclosed a 16.5 percent stake in Plano,
Texas-based J.C. Penney and the hedge-fund manager owns 11
percent of Fortune Brands, spokeswoman Bethany Norvell said
today.  Both J.C. Penney and Fortune management are likely to
resist demands from Ackman that would jeopardize their
investment-grade credit ratings, Levenson said in reports today.
J.C. Penney, though, has unencumbered real estate assets and
could sell more debt “but not as an investment grade credit,”
the analyst wrote.  ‘An Overhang’  Fortune, which already has debt four times its earnings
before interest, taxes and depreciation costs, may be pressured
by Ackman to jettison one or more of its home and security,
spirits or golf segments.  “The presence of Mr. Ackman will be an overhang on the
credit as long as he has a significant ownership of the stock,”
Levenson said.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt. The contracts typically rise when investor
perceptions of the credit quality of the borrower deteriorate.  J.C. Penney’s shares rose 85 cents, or 2.7 percent, to
$32.49 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the highest
since April. Yesterday, the shares jumped 9.1 percent, with
almost all of the gain in the final hour of trading.  Fortune shares climbed $3.85 cents, or 7.4 percent, to
$55.85.  Markit CDX Index  A broader gauge of corporate credit risk fell to the lowest
in five months as a bigger-than-estimated decline in the
nation’s payrolls last month bolstered bets the Federal Reserve
will increase asset purchases to support the economy.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, fell 1.8 basis points to a mid-price of 96.5
basis points, according to Markit Group Ltd. That’s the lowest
since May 3.  The measure has declined amid speculation the U.S. central
bank will add to its purchases of Treasury bonds to stimulate
the economy. The Fed said after its Sept. 21 meeting that it was
“prepared to provide additional accommodation if needed.”  Ingersoll-Rand  “Although macro conditions are clearly uncertain, we
believe that the monetary authorities will provide stimulus in
the event that the data flow weakens, providing near-term
support for risky assets,” Barclays Capital strategists  Jeffrey Meli  and  Bradley Rogoff  in New York said in a note to clients
today.  Employers cut staffing by 95,000 workers in September after
a revised 57,000 decrease in August, Labor Department figures in
Washington showed today. The median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a decline of 5,000. The
unemployment rate held at 9.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shannon D. Harrington  in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net ;
 John Detrixhe  in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  