-- Johnson Named U.K. Labour Party Shadow Chancellor in Surprise
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2010-10-08T15:23:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/johnson-named-treasury-spokesman-for-u-k-s-labour-cooper-to-shadow-hague.html
Alan Johnson , a former labor-union
leader who held Cabinet posts under  Tony Blair  and  Gordon Brown ,
was named Treasury spokesman for the opposition Labour Party.  Johnson, 60, who was home secretary until Labour lost power
in May, topped the list of Shadow Cabinet appointments announced
today in a statement by newly elected leader  Ed Miliband .  The former postman is a surprise choice for the job, which
was expected by bookmakers to be filled by either  Ed Balls  or
his wife  Yvette Cooper . Johnson will challenge Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  as he embarks on the deepest budget
cuts since World War II.  “These are testing times and we will be a responsible
opposition acting in the national interest,” Johnson said in an
e-mailed statement. “We will offer a real and responsible
alternative to the dangerous plans of this coalition government,
which is damaging the economic future of millions of families.”  Cooper was appointed foreign affairs spokesman and Balls
becomes spokesman for home affairs.  Sadiq Khan , who ran
Miliband’s campaign for the leadership, was rewarded with the
justice brief while  Angela Eagle  will shadow the work of Chief
Secretary to the Treasury  Danny Alexander .  Miliband may have decided not to appoint Cooper or Balls to
the Treasury role to avoid the talk of “psychodrama” that
attended his winning the Labour leadership over his brother
David, said  Justin Fisher , professor of politics at London’s
Brunel University.  Tension  “It removes the possibility of a story about tension in
the Balls-Cooper household,” Fisher said in a telephone
interview. “They also both worked for Brown in the Treasury and
if he’d appointed either of them it would have been grist to the
mill for the Conservatives who are majoring on the idea that the
economic situation is all Labour’s fault.”  Miliband was presented with a list of 19 lawmakers for his
top team last night after a vote by party members in the House
of Commons. Cooper topped the poll, with  John Healey , who
becomes health spokesman, in second place and Balls in third.  Johnson faces the first test in his new role on Oct. 20,
when Osborne sets out the results of his spending review. Most
departments face cuts of a quarter on average by 2015 as he
seeks to erase a deficit of 11 percent of economic output in the
last fiscal year.  The appointment of Johnson may give Miliband more control
over economic policy. Unlike Johnson, Balls and Cooper held key
economic posts in government. Cooper was chief secretary to the
Treasury and Balls advised Brown for most of his decade as
finance minister.  Vocal Critic  Balls, who ran in the Labour leadership race, was the most
vocal critic of government plans to step up the pace of spending
cuts, arguing against attempting to reduce the deficit until the
country was clear of recession.  Miliband, following his election as leader on Sept. 25,
described former Labour finance minister  Alistair Darling ’s plan
to cut the deficit in half in four years as “a good starting
point.”  Transport Secretary  Philip Hammond  suggested Johnson, who
held five Cabinet posts in five years, would not stay in the job
for long.  “Alan Johnson’s economic policy is a bit of an unknown to
us,” Hammond told BBC television. “It isn’t clear that he is
going to be the future. He looks like a caretaker appointment to
me.”  Married with four children, Johnson was general secretary
of the  Communication Workers Union  before entering Parliament in
the 1997 election that swept Blair to power. He gained his first
Cabinet post in 2004 as work and pensions secretary. He became
trade and industry secretary in 2005 and education secretary in
2006.  In 2006, Johnson ruled himself out as a contender to
succeed Blair as Labour leader, allowing Brown to take over
unopposed the following year. Brown made him health secretary in
2007 and home secretary in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Penny  in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 