-- Jones to Resign as Obama's National Security Adviser
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2010-10-08T19:50:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/jones-to-resign-as-national-security-adviser-will-be-replaced-by-donilon.html
President  Barack Obama  said his
national security adviser  James Jones  will leave the
administration later this month and be replaced by his deputy,
 Tom Donilon .  “Jim has always been a steady voice in Situation Room
sessions, daily briefings and with meetings with foreign
leaders,” Obama said in making the announcement today at the
White House.  Jones, a retired Marine Corps general and former North
Atlantic Treaty Organization commander and Marine Corps
commandant, agreed to serve “for about two years” when he was
asked to take the job, Obama said.  The departure of Jones, 66, marks the fifth exit of a top
level adviser to leave the White House since July, adding to the
turnover in the White House as the president heads into the
second half of his term.  Jones is leaving as the administration faces critical
junctures on several foreign and security policy fronts,
including the Middle East and the war in Afghanistan, which has
entered its 10th year.  Donilon will “have to cut through the chaos and
prioritize,” said  Jon Alterman , director of Middle East program
at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a
Washington policy group. “There’s so much bad news that it’s
been awfully hard for this administration to prioritize, given
all the things that need urgent attention.”  Credibility  Jones “brought a lot of credibility to an unseasoned
national security staff,” Alterman said. “He had contacts, he
had authority and could and did speak for the president.”  Still, he sometimes clashed with Obama’s political advisers
who had closer links with the president, according to the book
“Obama’s Wars” by journalist and author  Bob Woodward .  There also was friction with some in the military. In a
Rolling Stone profile of retired General  Stanley McChrystal , who
was commander of U.S. and allied forces in Afghanistan, a
McChrystal aide is quoted anonymously as calling Jones “a
clown” who is “stuck in 1985.”  Obama stripped McChrystal of his command after the article
was published and replaced him with General  David Petraeus .  White House Relations  David Rothkopf , who leads a group that examines national
security and economic issues at Washington’s Carnegie Endowment
for International Peace, said Jones never developed a close
relationship with Obama and didn’t bring a broad foreign policy
view to the job.  “General  Jim Jones  will go down in history as the least
successful national security adviser since Admiral  John Poindexter  was forced out of office during the Reagan
administration,” Rothkopf wrote in a  blog  on the website of
Foreign Policy magazine.  By contrast, Donilon, 55, has become a close adviser to the
president. In September, Obama sent Donilon, along with National
Economic Council Director  Lawrence Summers , to meet with General
 Xu Caihou , a vice chairman of the Communist Party’s Central
Military Commission, as the administration sought to bolster
military cooperation with China.  He also had been considered as White House chief of staff
to replace  Rahm Emanuel , who left to make a run for mayor of
Chicago.  Long History  Donilon has been involved with Democratic leaders for more
than three decades. He held a White House post in the
administration of President  Jimmy Carter  and worked on the 1984
and 1988 Democratic presidential campaigns.  He went to work in 1986 for then-Senator  Joe Biden . In 1993
he joined President  Bill Clinton ’s administration to work at the
State Department and eventually served as Secretary of State
 Warren Christopher ’s chief of staff.  Donilon left government in 1996 to work at the law firm
O’Melveny & Myers before being hired by  Fannie Mae , the nation’s
largest mortgage-finance company, in September 1999.  He was executive vice president for law and policy at
Fannie Mae, leaving in 2005 after the its regulator, the Office
of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, found Fannie Mae broke
accounting rules and improperly deferred expenses to meet an
earnings target that triggered the maximum bonuses for company
executives.  Franklin Raines , who led Fannie Mae when Donilon worked
there said that Donilon’s “role at Fannie Mae was to coordinate
the many aspects of managing the company’s external
environment.”  “He oversaw everything from law to government relations to
regulatory compliance,” he said in an e-mail.  Military Relations  Woodward’s book says Jones told Donilon he had “no
credibility with the military” because he’d never traveled to
Iraq or Afghanistan. Donilon saw Afghanistan for the first time
in March when he accompanied Obama on a six-hour trip to the
country.  Donilon also clashed with Secretary of Defense  Robert Gates , according to Woodward. Gates found some of Donilon’s
comments about a general so offensive that he nearly walked out
of a meeting with him, Woodward wrote.  Senator  Jack Reed , a member of the Armed Services Committee
and graduate of the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, said
Donilon’s lack of military experience wouldn’t harm the White
House relationship with the Pentagon.  Strategic Thinking  “Tom Donilon is one of the most thoughtful and capable
strategic thinkers that I know,” the Rhode Island Democrat said
in an interview today on Bloomberg Television’s “Political
Capital with  Al Hunt .”  Reed said Donilon has “tremendous respect for the
military.”  Republican Senator  Lindsey Graham  of South Carolina, also a
member of the Armed Services Committee, said Obama “has chosen
wisely” in naming Donilon as Jones’s replacement.  “In my dealings with Mr. Donilon, I have found him to be
very professional, open to suggestions, and fully committed to
America’s national security,” Graham said in an e-mailed
statement.  In his own remarks today, Jones said of Donilon that he had
been the man who “kept the trains running on time, and your
energy and your dedication is without equal.”  Alterman said that is Donilon’s strength.  While Jones “didn’t muddle in trivia,” Alterman said,
“Donilon excelled in that arena. He ran internal meetings, he
had his hands all over all aspects of the process. Donilon knows
all the details.”  In addition to Emanuel, top-level Obama advisers who’ve
left the administration include budget director  Peter Orszag  and
 Christina Romer , head of Council of Economic Advisers. Summers
announced he’ll leave at the end of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Gaouette  in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 Hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Meszoly at   rmeszoly@bloomberg.net  