-- JPMorgan, BNP Among Banks Facing Audit in Korea
-- B y   F r a n c e s   Y o o n
-- 2010-10-08T05:42:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/jpmorgan-bnp-among-banks-facing-korea-audit-regulator-says.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,  DBS Group
Holdings Ltd. ,  Morgan Stanley  and  BNP Paribas SA  will be audited
by South Korean regulators on their foreign-exchange derivatives
holdings as policy makers seek to curb won gains.  The audit will begin Oct. 19 and focus on trades in non-
deliverable forwards, said  Doh Bo Eun , head of the foreign-
exchange coordination team at the  Financial Supervisory Service .
The contracts, settled in dollars, enable investors to speculate
on exchange-rate fluctuations.  The won’s 5.6 percent gain against the dollar in the past
month makes South Korean exports more expensive at a time when
the economic recovery in the U.S. and Europe shows signs of
faltering. The regulator wants to ensure that the value of
outstanding currency derivatives, which the government estimates
are declining, falls to below mandated limits.  “We want to check if the banks have been abiding by the
rules,” Doh said by telephone today. “The very high level of
derivatives held by overseas banks has fallen a lot.”  Shinhan Financial Group Co.  and  Korea Exchange Bank  will
also be audited, from Oct. 26, Doh said.  Lee You Chul, a spokesman for Shinhan, said the company
hadn’t been told by the regulators of the audit, while Korea
Exchange Bank spokesman  Kim Sun Gyu  declined to comment.
Officials at JPMorgan, BNP Paribas and DBS didn’t immediately
respond to requests for comment.  Capital Inflows  Local banks in June were ordered to reduce holdings of the
derivatives to 50 percent of equity capital within a two-year
period, starting Oct. 9. The limit for overseas banks was set at
250 percent of equity capital. All banks were banned from
raising their derivatives above the levels held on July 9.  Governments from South Korea to Brazil are stepping up
attempts to control their currencies as near-zero interest rates
in the U.S. and Japan spur demand for higher-yielding assets in
developing nations, whose economies are leading global growth.
Investors poured almost $90 billion into emerging-market stock
and bond funds in the first nine months of this year, an EPFR
Global data show.  Trading in non-deliverable forwards in South Korea rose
“considerably” in September, Doh said. The won advanced 5.1
percent during the same period, its biggest monthly advance in a
year.  The value of outstanding currency derivatives held by
domestic and overseas banks currently exceeds new limits by $2.7
billion, compared with 12.1 billion in July,  Lawrence H. Lee ,
director of the foreign-exchange policy division at the Ministry
of Strategy and Finance, said this week in Seoul.  ‘No Choice’  Overseas banks operating in South Korea “have no choice”
but to cut their holdings of swaps and bonds in the country
because of new limits,  Lee Sung Hee , managing director at
JPMorgan in Seoul, said Oct. 6.  Korean regulators announced their audit plans after Brazil
doubled a tax it charges foreigners on investments in fixed-
income securities to 4 percent.  South Korea is a small, open economy that is vulnerable to
surges in capital flows, Vice Finance Minister  Yim Jong Yong 
said on June 9. He said $65 billion was taken out of country in
the four to five months after the 2008 collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Frances Yoon  in Seoul at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 