-- Kan's Cabinet Approves $62 Billion Stimulus to Protect Japan's Recovery
-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i   a n d   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2010-10-08T04:39:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/kan-s-cabinet-approves-62-billion-japan-stimulus-to-boost-flagging-growth.html
Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s cabinet
endorsed a 5.1 trillion yen ($62 billion) stimulus plan for
Japan to safeguard an economic recovery and help local
governments and small businesses cope with the surging yen.  About 3.1 trillion yen will go toward assisting regional
economies and small businesses, the finance ministry said in a
statement today. The package also includes an undefined amount
to find new sources of rare earth metals after Japan said China
disrupted shipments following a territorial dispute.  While the plan emphasizes using the stronger currency to
support overseas projects, it doesn’t propose the creation of a
sovereign wealth fund, mentioned in a ruling party draft
submitted two days ago. The Ministry of Finance is opposed to
the idea of using Japan’s $1.1 trillion in foreign exchange
reserves as a source of capital for such a fund, the Nikkei
newspaper said today, citing unidentified ministry officials.  Kan’s proposal still requires parliamentary approval, and
comes after reports last month showed exports and industrial
production slowing. While his  Democratic Party of Japan  controls
the lower house, it will need support from opposition lawmakers
in the less-powerful upper chamber.  Timing Problems  “The biggest problem with the stimulus is timing; it’s too
late to address an expected slowdown in the October-December
period,” said  Hirokata Kusaba , a senior economist at Mizuho
Research Institute Ltd. in Tokyo. “The bill won’t pass the Diet
until December or even January, and there’s a concern that the
session may be disrupted by other issues” such as China.  The new spending is projected to add about 0.6 percent to
Japan’s economic output and create or retain between 450,000 and
500,000 jobs, the ministry said.  “We expect constructive talks between ruling and
opposition parties for an early agreement,” Kan said in
parliament today. “We want to take seamless measures to beat
deflation and ensure an autonomous recovery.”  The call to find new sources of rare earths comes after
China, which controls more than 95 percent of global supply,
imposed a de facto ban on exports to Japan last month. The
embargo followed the detention of a Chinese captain whose ship
collided with Japanese Coast Guard vessels in disputed waters on
Sept. 7. Rare earths are a group of 17 metals used in weapons,
hybrid vehicles and laptop computers.  Kan today said Japan is assisting countries including
Mongolia, Vietnam and Kazakhstan in their mining development
“to secure a stable supply of rare earth.”  The yen’s surge to a 15-year-high prompted exporters
including  Nintendo Co.  to cut profit forecasts and persuaded the
government last month to intervene in the foreign exchange
market for the first time since 2004. The yen yesterday reached
a new high, surpassing the level that triggered intervention.  Japan  stocks  have fallen this year, fueled in part by
investor concern over the economic recovery. The  Nikkei 225
Stock Average  has declined 8.5 percent this year, the second-
biggest drop among benchmark indexes for the world’s 10-largest
equity markets.  Kan unveiled a 915 billion yen stimulus last month that
party rivals said was too small to respond to the currency surge
and more than a decade of deflation. The government urged the
Bank of Japan to expand monetary policy, and the central bank
earlier this week cut its benchmark interest rate to 0-0.1
percent from 0.1 percent and expanded its balance sheet.  The Ministry of Finance in September sold 2.12 trillion yen
in an effort to stem the currency’s gains. The yen, which
climbed to 82.11 per dollar yesterday, was trading at 82.33 at
1:37 p.m. in Tokyo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sachiko Sakamaki  in Tokyo at 
 Ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net ;
 Keiko Ujikane  in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  