-- Koito Manufacturing Slumps Most in 18 Years After Thai Air Lawsuit Report
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2010-10-08T03:47:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/koito-manufacturing-slumps-most-in-18-years-after-thai-air-lawsuit-report.html
Koito Manufacturing Co.  plunged the
most in 18 years in Tokyo trading after the Bangkok Post said
Thai Airways International Plc may seek $550 million in
compensation from a seat-making unit following delivery delays.  Koito , part-owned by Toyota Motor Corp., tumbled as much as
20 percent, the biggest intraday decline since March 1992. The
company fell 17 percent to 1,035 yen as of 12:39 p.m. Unit  Koito
Industries Ltd.  dropped 3.3 percent.  Thai Air’s  board  will discuss today whether to begin court
proceedings against Koito Industries,  Raj Tanta-Nanta , its vice
president for investor relations, said by phone. The Bangkok-
based airline hasn’t decided how much it will seek, he said.
Koito Industries earlier this year halted deliveries and began
inspecting seats in about 1,000 planes worldwide after admitting
to making unauthorized design changes and using uncertified
materials for at least a decade.  Koito Industries hasn’t been informed of any pending legal
action from Thai Air, said  Yoichiro Kuroiwa , a spokesman for the
Japanese manufacturer. The company has received claims from a
“number” of airlines, he said. It set aside 3.6 billion yen
($44 million) for compensation last fiscal year and it expects
to need another 3.3 billion yen in the year ending March 31, he
said.  Shinji Karasawa , a spokesman for Tokyo-based Koito
Manufacturing, said the company was investigating the report.  The late arrival of Thai Air’s seats forced the carrier to
delay plans to deploy 11 planes, including Airbus SAS A380s, the
 Bangkok Post  said yesterday, citing unidentified people.
Singapore Airlines Ltd. and All Nippon Airways Co. also
postponed the introduction of planes earlier this year because
of seat delays.  “It’s bad news that in a worst-case scenario Koito could
have to pay $550 million compensation to just one company,”
said  Shiro Sakamaki , an analyst at Daiwa Securities Capital
Markets. “Still, the odds are very high that if Koito does have
to pay compensation then it will be less than $550 million.”  Koito Industries has tumbled 53 percent this year. Koito
Manufacturing, which owns 50 percent of Koito Industries, has
dropped 30 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
 Daniel Ten Kate  in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  