-- Korean Won Retreats From Five-Month High on U.S. Concern, Technical Gauge
-- B y   F r a n c e s   Y o o n
-- 2010-10-08T01:38:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/korean-won-retreats-from-five-month-high-on-u-s-concern-technical-gauge.html
South Korea’s won fell, paring a
weekly gain, on speculation U.S. jobs data today will highlight
the fragility of a recovery in the world’s biggest economy.  The currency retreated from a five-month high and the  Kospi 
stock index declined as overseas investors sold more shares than
they bought for the first time in four weeks. The won’s relative
strength index, a technical indicator used to predict reversals
in price trends, also suggested a period of weakness was likely
following a 7.5 percent advance in the past three months.  “Traders are being careful before we get the American
unemployment data,” said  Yun Se Min , a Seoul-based currency
trader for Busan Bank. “We are seeing investors buying U.S.
dollars to take profit after we’ve seen the won do well for some
time. We might see a correction.”  The won slid 0.6 percent to 1,121.05 per dollar as of 10:22
a.m. in Seoul, trimming this week’s gain to 0.8 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It yesterday touched
1,113.88, the strongest level since May 4.  The relative strength index has been below 30 on all but
one day this month, signaling to some traders the won is poised
to weaken. The last time the index fell below 30, in the week
ended Jan. 15, the currency dropped 4 percent in the subsequent
three weeks.  The U.S. jobless rate rose to 9.7 percent in September from
9.6 percent the previous month, according to a Bloomberg survey
of economists before a Labor Department report today.  South Korea’s government bonds were little changed for a
second day, with the yield on the 3.75 percent debt due June
2013 at 3.30 percent, according to Korea Stock Exchange. The
rate was 3.27 percent at the end of last week, the lowest level
since the notes were issued in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Frances Yoon  in Seoul at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 