-- Nation Media of Kenya Will Begin Trading Its Shares in Rwanda Next Month
-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 2010-10-08T07:35:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/nation-media-of-kenya-will-begin-trading-its-shares-in-rwanda-next-month.html
Nation Media Group Ltd. , East
Africa’s biggest media company, will list its shares on  Rwanda ’s
over-the-counter market on Nov. 2, helping boost trading volumes
on the bourse, the capital market regulator said.  The Kenyan company, which has its primary listing on the
 Nairobi Stock Exchange , will be the second to begin trading on
the Kigali-based exchange. Rwanda’s Capital Markets Advisory
Council approved the cross-listing last month.  Nation Media, owned by the Aga Khan Fund for Economic
Development SA, first announced plans in March to list in
Rwanda, Tanzania and  Uganda . On average, about 8,400 shares
trade on the Rwandan market every month, generating revenue of
only about 1.44 million Rwandan francs ($2,440), according to
CMAC data.  “Nation Media’s listing will not only help our market grow,
but also give investors in Rwanda an opportunity to invest in a
leading company in the region,”  Robert Mathu , executive director
of CMAC, said in an interview yesterday. “It is also in line
with Rwanda’s aspirations of participating in East African
regional integration.”  Rwandan lawmakers are drafting a law that will create the
Rwanda Stock Exchange and a Capital Markets Authority.  “We were with the legislators three weeks ago, discussing
legalities, and we hope that a law can be enacted soon,” Mathu
said.  Bonds  Kenya Commercial Bank Ltd. , the country’s fifth-biggest
lender by market value, listed its shares on the Rwandan bourse
in 2009. In addition, six bonds trade on the market, including a
two-year, 2.5 billion-franc security sold last month, according
to the Rwandan central bank.  A combined 21.5 billion francs has been raised through bond
sales on the Rwandan market since 2008, according to CMAC data.  Rwanda’s government plans to offer 25 percent of Brasseries
et Limonaderies du Rwanda SA, the brewer known as Bralirwa, to
public investors, the New Times, a Kigali-based newspaper,
reported in April. An additional 5 percent will be sold to
 Heineken NV , which already owns 70 percent of the company, it
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Malingha Doya  in Kigali via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 