-- New Hope Offers A$193 Million for Northern Energy
-- B y   R e b e c c a   K e e n a n   a n d   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2010-10-08T06:13:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/new-hope-offers-189-million-for-northern-energy-after-previous-rejection.html
New Hope  Corp. offered A$193 million
($189 million) to buy Northern Energy Corp. after the Australian
coal exploration company rejected an undisclosed bid as
inadequate. Northern Energy shares rose the highest in more than
seven years.  Northern Energy has “some very, very good assets” in
pulverized coal used in steelmaking and “also some very good
thermal coal assets,” Robert Millner, chairman of Ipswich,
Queensland-based New Hope, said in a telephone interview today.
Northern Energy also has a “very, very attractive” port
allocation after recently being awarded export capacity at the
planned Wiggins Island port in Queensland.  Merger and acquisition activity in Australia’s coal sector
has stepped up this year as companies seek to buy into surging
prices and sales to  Asia .  China  last year imported a record
amount of coking coal, used for steelmaking, and  India  almost
doubled purchases of energy coal for its power stations.  Northern Energy shares surged 40 percent to A$1.56 at the
4:10 p.m. close of trading on the Australian stock exchange. The
gain was the highest since Aug. 18, 2003, and lifted the market
value of the company to A$200.34 million. New Hope rose 0.4
percent to A$5.10, compared with a 0.2 percent drop in the
benchmark index.  New Hope said it offered A$1.50 a share cash, a 58 percent
premium to Northern Energy’s  closing price  on Sept. 29, the day
before it made an approach. Northern Energy said it was
considering the proposal after rejecting an earlier offer.  Northern Energy has coal exploration projects in  Australia 
and is targeting production in 2012, it said in a statement. New
Hope currently owns “just under 5 percent” of its takeover
target, Millner said.  Northern Energy said it has appointed Merrill Lynch, a unit
of Bank of America Corp., as corporate adviser. New Hope said it
has appointed Pitt Capital Partners as its financial adviser and
Blake Dawson as its legal adviser.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Keenan in Melbourne at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  