-- New York City Bonds Draw `Strong Demand' Abroad as Yield Exceeds Spain's
-- B y   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l   a n d   A l e x a n d r a   H a r r i s
-- 2010-10-08T15:20:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/new-york-city-bonds-draw-strong-demand-abroad-as-yield-exceeds-spain-s.html
New York City sold $775 million in
Build America Bonds as international buyers purchased about 16
percent of the debt, the most in the city’s history.  Non-U.S. buyers accounted for $123.1 million of the sale,
the city’s largest such issue this year, according to figures
released by Comptroller  John Liu’s  office. The most-populous
U.S. city’s 27-year bonds were priced 61 basis points over 30-
year securities from Spain, which carries the same AA credit
rating from Standard & Poor’s, third-highest. A basis point is
0.01 of a percentage point.  “There is heightened international awareness of U.S. and
state municipal bonds, with a distinction on quality,” First
Deputy Comptroller  Eric Eve  said in an e-mail today. “The
strong global demand demonstrates confidence in New York City.”  International ownership of U.S. municipal debt jumped 37
percent to $83 billion in the first half of the year from the
end of 2009, a Sept. 17 Federal Reserve report shows. Spurring
the growth are Build America Bonds, created by President  Barack Obama’s  economic stimulus program to finance public-works
projects. Issuers of the debt are eligible for a 35 percent
subsidy on interest costs.  Taxable sales accounted for $4.3 billion of this week’s
$12.7 billion in municipal issuance, the biggest volume since
the period ended March 26, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. About $3.1 billion was sold as federally subsidized
Build Americas, the most since the week ended Sept. 24.  Build Americas  More than $140 billion of Build America debt has been sold
in the 17-month-old market. About a quarter may have been bought
overseas through June, according to  Matt Fabian , an analyst with
Concord, Massachusetts-based Municipal Market Advisors Inc.  “The strong demand overseas for our bonds demonstrates
worldwide confidence in New York City,” Liu said in an e-mailed
statement. “Expanding the base of investors in New York City
bonds helps drive down our borrowing costs.”  Liu went on a seven-day marketing trip to London and Zurich
this week, accompanied by an executive from  Bank of America
Corp ., the deal’s underwriter, to boost interest for the city’s
Build Americas. The trip generated orders from the U.K.,
Germany, Norway and Asia, Liu said in a telephone interview from
London.  Prior to this sale, New York City had received $54 million
in international orders, or less than 2 percent of the $2.8
billion in Build Americas the city sold before this week,
according to data from the comptroller’s office.  ‘Well Regarded’  “New York City is well regarded and its financial
management is regarded as top notch,” said  Alan Schankel ,
managing director of fixed-income research at Philadelphia-based
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, an underwriters on the deal.  “International investors can get more bang for their buck
with BABs,” he said. “There’s more value and more yield” than
comparable corporate debt.  The bulk of the sale, maturing in October 2037, was priced
to yield 5.52 percent, or 180 basis points above  30-year U.S.
Treasuries . That compares with 30-year sovereign debt from
Spain, which yesterday yielded  4.91 percent , 120 basis points
above. New York carries third-highest rankings from the top
three credit-rating companies, while Spain is one level higher,
according to Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings.  The city last sold Build Americas in June, with bonds
maturing in June 2035 priced to yield 6.25 percent, or 214 basis
points above benchmark Treasuries. The so-called spread had
narrowed to 141 basis points in trading on Sept. 21, according
to Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board data.  New York sold an additional $388 million in tax-exempts
this week, as well as $150 million in traditional taxables
through a competitive sale won by Citigroup.  Tax-exempts due in August 2021 were priced to yield 3.22
percent, 69 basis points above benchmark AAA yields according to
the Bloomberg Valuation  11-year index . The same maturity in the
city’s previous tax-exempt sale, July 28, offered yields 52
basis points above top-rated debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brendan McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net ;
 Alexandra Harris  in New York at 
 aharris48@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 