-- Liu Xiaobo, Jailed Chinese Dissident, Awarded Nobel Peace Prize
-- B y   M e e r a   B h a t i a
-- 2010-10-08T19:34:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/nobel-peace-prize-2010-is-awarded-to-imprisoned-chinese-writer-liu-xiaobo.html
Jailed Chinese dissident  Liu Xiaobo 
won the Nobel Peace Prize for his struggle to promote human
rights and democracy, an award that was denounced by authorities
in Beijing.  The announcement prompted President  Barack Obama  to urge
the Chinese government to release Liu “as soon as possible.”
Obama said in a statement that while China has made “dramatic
progress” economically, “political reform has not kept pace.”  Liu, 54, was awarded the prize “for his long and non-
violent struggle for fundamental human rights in China,”
according to a statement by the Norwegian Nobel Committee in
Oslo today. The decision violates the prize’s purpose and will
harm relations with Norway,  Ma Zhaoxu , a spokesman for China’s
Ministry of Foreign Affairs, said in a statement on its website.  Liu, a writer, was sentenced to 11 years in prison on Dec.
25, 2009, on a charge of plotting to subvert the ruling
Communist Party. He had been in custody since December 2008 for
his role in organizing Charter 08, an  open letter  calling for
direct elections and the freedom of assembly. More than 300
Chinese academics, lawyers and activists signed the letter.  “I want to tell the whole world: Liu Xiaobo is innocent,
and I am proud of him,” Liu’s wife, Liu Xia, said in a
telephone interview from China with Cable TV, a Hong Kong-based
broadcaster. “It’s not just a prize for him, but for all those
who persist in pushing for democracy, freedom and peace in
China, and as well as all prisoners of conscience.”  Chinese Media  While state-owned Xinhua News Agency didn’t report Liu’s
award, it did publish the Foreign Ministry’s reaction and the
government isn’t blocking access to foreign media reports about
the prize. Chinese-language reports on the website of the
British Broadcasting Corp. and the Wall Street Journal were
accessible in Beijing and Shanghai.  China’s government has said Liu, as a convicted criminal,
doesn’t deserve the Nobel Peace Prize.  “The person you just mentioned was sentenced to jail by
Chinese judicial authorities for violation of Chinese law, and I
think his acts are in complete contravention to the purpose of
the Nobel Peace Prize,” Foreign Ministry spokeswoman  Jiang Yu 
told reporters on Sept. 28.  The prize, along with literature, physics and medicine
honors, was created by Swedish industrialist  Alfred Nobel  and
first awarded in 1901.  Obama’s Response  “China has made dramatic progress in economic reform and
improving the lives of its people, lifting hundreds of millions
out of poverty,” Obama said today. “But this award reminds us
that political reform has not kept pace, and that the basic
human rights of every man, woman and child must be respected.”  Obama won the prize in 2009, less than a year after taking
office, for efforts to strengthen diplomacy and cooperation, an
award that sparked criticism from historians while drawing
support from European politicians. Past laureates also include
U.S. civil rights leader  Martin Luther King Jr . and  Mother Teresa .  “As I said last year in Oslo, even as we respect the
unique culture and traditions of different countries, America
will always be a voice for those aspirations that are universal
to all human beings,” Obama said in a statement.  U.S.-China Tensions  Obama’s call for Liu’s release may add to tensions between
the world’s two biggest economies, already at odds over trade
matters, said  Charles Freeman , a specialist in China studies at
the Washington-based Center for Strategic and International
Studies.  “The Chinese look at Liu and others who are pro-democracy
as people who foment instability,” said Freeman. They see U.S.
calls for greater freedoms essentially as calls for the
overthrow of China’s ruling Communist Party, he said.  China has said a measure passed by the U.S. House last
month aimed at pushing up the value of the yuan would hurt the
global economy. The legislation would let domestic companies
petition for duties on imports from China to compensate for the
effect of a weak yuan.  Liu’s Charter 08 drew inspiration and its name from Charter
77, the dissident group founded in Czechoslovakia in the 1970s
that urged that country’s then-Communist regime to respect human
rights.  Vaclav Havel , the former president of the Czech
Republic, and other members of Charter 77 said in a letter
published in the International Herald Tribune on Sept. 20 that
the 2010 Nobel Peace Prize should be awarded to Liu.  ‘Alternative Vision’  “Despite Liu’s imprisonment, his ideas cannot be
shackled,” Havel and two other Charter 77 members wrote in the
letter. “Charter 08 has articulated an alternative vision of
China, challenging the official line that any decisions on
reforms are the exclusive province of the state.”  Liu also took part in the protests on Beijing’s Tiananmen
Square in 1989, returning home from studies at New York’s
Columbia University. He was held in police custody for 21 months
after the demonstrations were crushed on June 4 of that year and
was sent to a labor camp for three years starting in 1996.  News on Liu’s case is censored in China. Jiang’s comments
on the case during the Sept. 28 press conference were scrubbed
from the Chinese-language transcript posted on the Foreign
Ministry’s website. Netease.com Inc. today removed a section of
its portal dedicated to reporting this year’s prize winners.  Brave Decision  Thorbjoern Jagland , head of the Nobel Committee, said the
group is “entirely independent” and not part of any
government. The five-member  Nobel Committee  is led by  Jagland ,
who was president of Norway’s parliament before last year
becoming secretary general of the Council of Europe.  “This is a rather brave decision,” said Kristian Berg
Harpviken, head of the Oslo-based International Peace Research
Institute. “It’s certainly a decision that will be disputed,
challenged by the Chinese. It is very likely that in the short
term it will affect Norwegian-Chinese relations.”  Norway’s Prime Minister  Jens Stoltenberg  said that
“discussions of human rights issues” form part of the
relationship with China and that the Norwegian government had
raised Liu’s case several times.  “China has made huge economic and social progress over the
last decades,” he said in the statement on the government’s
website. “However, there are still challenges that need to be
addressed with regard to several universal human rights.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Meera Bhatia  in Oslo at 
 mbhatia2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  