-- Nobel Peace Prize for Dissident Liu Has China Warning Norway on Relations
-- B y   M e e r a   B h a t i a   a n d   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2010-10-08T15:51:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/nobel-peace-prize-for-dissident-liu-has-china-warning-norway-on-relations.html
Norway’s government congratulated
jailed Chinese dissident  Liu Xiaobo  on winning this year’s Nobel
Peace Prize as China warned the Nordic country’s relations with
the world’s second-biggest economy will suffer after the award.  “We congratulate Liu” for “his work to promote democracy
and human rights,” said Foreign Minister  Jonas Gahr Stoere , in
a telephone interview today. “It’s important to underline the
obvious, which is the clear distinction between the independent
Nobel Committee, which takes its decisions 100 percent on its
own, and the Norwegian government, which enjoys and develops
bilateral relations with China.”  The awarding of the Nobel Peace Prize to Liu violates the
prize’s purpose and will hurt Norway’s relations with China,  Ma Zhaoxu , a spokesman for the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs,
said in a statement on its website today. U.S. President  Barack Obama  today called on the Chinese government to release Liu, and
said the award “reminds us that political reform has not kept
pace” with economic developments there.  China summoned Norway’s ambassador Svein O. Saether to a
meeting earlier today, Ragnhild Imerslund, a spokeswoman at the
Oslo-based Foreign Ministry, said by phone. China’s Ambassador
to Norway,  Tang Guoqiang , also met with state secretary Erik
Lahnstein, she said.  11 Years Prison  Liu, a writer, was sentenced to 11 years in prison on Dec.
25, 2009, on a charge of plotting to subvert the ruling
Communist Party. He had been in custody since December 2008 for
his role in organizing Charter 08, an open letter calling for
direct elections and the freedom of assembly. More than 300
Chinese academics, lawyers and activists signed the letter.  “They wanted to officially protest against the Nobel Peace
Prize this year,” Imerslund said. “We emphasized that the
Norwegian Nobel Peace Prize Committee is an independent
committee that makes its decisions independently of the
Norwegian government.”  Liu was awarded the prize for his efforts to promote
democracy and human rights, becoming the first Chinese national
to receive the honor. The committee said the prize acknowledged
“his long and non-violent struggle for fundamental human rights
in China,” according to the statement.  “This is a rather brave decision,” said Kristian Berg
Harpviken, head of the Oslo-based International Peace Research
Institute. “It’s certainly a decision that will be disputed,
challenged by the Chinese. It is very likely that in the short
term it will affect Norwegian-Chinese relations.”  Sweden’s Foreign Minister  Carl Bildt  also congratulated Liu
on the award, in comments posted on his personal website today.  Call for Harmony  “China has in the last decades become a more open and, in
some important aspects, also a more tolerant society,” Bildt
said. “We have on many occasions had reason to express our hope
that this development will continue -- a truly harmonious
society is one that also fully respects human freedoms and
rights. My hope is that China will see this prize to Liu Xiaobo
as a call to move on towards a more open and harmonious
society.”  In the first eight months of the year, exports to China
accounted for 3.7 percent of Norway’s total sales abroad and
imports made up 8 percent of purchases from abroad. China is
Norway’s largest Asian trade partner with exports growing faster
than imports, according to the Norwegian Chinese Chamber of
Commerce.  China’s Choice  The Confederation of Norwegian Business and Industry “does
not have any opinion or mandate to assess the work of the
independent Norwegian Nobel Committee,” said Petter Brubakk, a
director at the group. “We won’t speculate on any consequences
this may have on Norwegian trade with China.”  Oslo-based  Yara International ASA , the largest publicly
traded nitrogen-fertilizer maker, doesn’t have any “immediate
concerns” about trade relations with China, said spokesman
Bernhard Stormyr. “We have positive and long standing relations
to our Chinese customers, and we trust these will remain
solid,” Stormyr said by e-mail.  Norway’s Pension Fund Global spokeswoman  Bunny Nooryani 
declined to comment. The $500 billion sovereign wealth fund,
which invests Norway’s oil revenue, has an office in Shanghai.  Statoil ASA , Norway’s largest company, which has a business
venture with China’s Sinochem Group, said today it doesn’t
“want to speculate about that,” Baard Glad Pedersen, a Statoil
spokesman said by phone from Oslo.  “It really depends on the Chinese and what they choose to
do, but I don’t think China or Norway will have any immediate
interest in taking this out on trade relations, because that is
based, and should be based, on mutual benefits,” said Kari
Bjoernaas, general manager at the Norwegian Chinese Chamber of
Commerce.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Meera Bhatia  in Oslo at 
 mbhatia2@bloomberg.net ;
 Josiane Kremer  in Oslo at 
 Jkremer4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  