-- Noda Signals Japan to Avoid Return to Sustained, Large-Scale Intervention
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2010-10-08T03:48:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/noda-signals-japan-to-avoid-return-to-sustained-large-scale-intervention.html
Japan’s finance minister signaled
that while his government is ready to sell yen in the market if
needed, the country doesn’t intend to return to the long-term,
large scale intervention campaigns of the past.  “The intervention we conducted on Sept. 15 was to rein in
excessive movements,”  Yoshihiko Noda  told reporters today in
Tokyo before departing for a Washington meeting of Group of
Seven finance authorities. “It has a different character from
one seeking a certain level with large scale, long-term
intervention.”  Noda spoke after the yen climbed through the level against
the dollar that prompted last month’s intervention. Canadian
Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said this week that the G-7 will
address currency intervention today.  The Japanese finance minister’s remarks suggest that
Japan’s current intervention strategy is aimed at stemming sharp
moves rather than guiding the yen weaker, said economist  Norio Miyagawa .  “Japan is a member of the G-7 nations, so it’s difficult
for it to take the stance of guiding its currency to a certain
level,” said Miyagawa, senior economist at Mizuho Securities
Research and Consulting Co. in?Tokyo.  International Criticism  “With the G-7 meeting and G-20 meetings approaching, it
would be a difficult time for Japan to intervene in the currency
market, especially when international criticism about currency
devaluation has increased,” Miyagawa said, adding that Japan
could still enter the currency market if the yen appreciates
sharply and excessively.  Japan sold more than 2 trillion yen ($24 billion) in last
month’s operation, its first sales in the foreign-exchange
market in six years. The Bank of Japan, acting on behest of the
Ministry of Finance, sold 14.8 trillion yen in the first three
months of 2004, after record sales of 20.4 trillion yen in 2003.  The yen advanced to 82.11 to the dollar yesterday, its
highest since May 1995. It was trading at 82.28 to the dollar at
12:43 p.m. in Tokyo.  Last month’s action followed pleas to the government from
Japanese business executives to act against the yen’s advance,
which tends to hurt exporters’ profits.  Honda Motor  Honda Motor Co. Executive Vice President  Koichi Kondo  said
today he hopes measures will be taken to handle the yen’s
appreciation.  Vice Finance Minister  Fumihiko Igarashi  indicated yesterday
that Japan isn’t trying to weaken the yen to compete with trade
partners.  “It’s not our intention to engage in a currency-
devaluation race for the sake of the national interest,” he
said in an interview in Tokyo. “We could conduct smoothing
operations when movements are extremely volatile, that would be
permissible.”  Countries from China to Brazil and Switzerland have sold
their currencies this year in a pattern the International
Monetary Fund has warned may undermine the global recovery.  “There are concerns about interventions in currency
markets,” Canada’s Flaherty said Oct. 6, before a gathering of
G-7 finance ministers and central bank governors. Flaherty said
that he’s “sure” the issue will be discussed in Washington.  No Easing Contest  Bank of Japan Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  said yesterday he
doesn’t think central banks are competing to loosen credit.
Easier monetary policy often weakens the home currency.  “Each country is making the best decision by looking at
its economy and financial markets. I don’t think there is
competition to ease monetary policy,” Shirakawa told reporters
in Washington. “The yen is rising because of uncertainties in
the global economy, especially the U.S.”  Noda indicated that even with the G-7 meeting taking place
later in the day, the possibility of Japan selling yen again
remains.  “We are monitoring the currency markets with great
interest,” he said. “We will take a bold action, including
intervention, if necessary, and that is our basic stance,
regardless of whether it’s before or after the G-7 meeting.”  Devaluation War  Noda also said a currency devaluation war would damage the
global economy, while declining to comment on specific foreign
exchange levels. Brazil’s Finance Minister Guido Mantega, a
delegate to the IMF annual meetings in Washington this week,
said Sept. 27 that there’s already a worldwide “currency war.”  Recent reports provide evidence the yen’s strength is
holding back Japan’s economic growth.  The nation’s current-account surplus contracted 5.8 percent
in August as export growth slowed, figures released today by
Ministry of Finance showed. The overall economy grew at less
than half the pace in the April-June period compared with the
previous quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keiko Ujikane  in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  