-- Barclays Falls as Abu Dhabi Sheikh Buys Protection on Stock
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2010-10-08T16:23:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/nomura-selling-1-billion-barclays-stake-in-abu-dhabi-hedge.html
Barclays Plc, the U.K.’s third-
biggest bank, dropped after Abu Dhabi’s  Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan  bought protection against a loss in value of his
entire 6.3 percent stake in a deal with Nomura Holdings Inc.  Barclays  shares fell 2.2 percent to 297.25 pence at the
4:30 p.m. close in London, the biggest decline in three weeks.
Nomura sold 649 million pounds ($1 billion) worth of stock in
the U.K. lender to hedge its commitment to buy Sheikh Mansour’s
equity in the event the shares decline, according to two people
familiar with the transaction.  The London-based  bank  sold 32 percent of its equity to
Qatar and Abu Dhabi in October 2008 for 5.3 billion pounds as it
sought to avoid taking funds from the U.K. government at the
peak of the financial crisis. PCP Gulf Invest 3 Ltd., a company
controlled by Sheikh Mansour, today converted his remaining
warrants into shares, taking the total profit from exercising
the securities to about 800 million pounds.  “They are capping in their downside and minimizing any
potential loss on any sale of the shares,” said  Danny Clarke , a
Liverpool, England-based analyst at Shore Capital Group Plc.
“They obviously have made a decent gain over the last couple of
years and are now just making sure that is locked in.”  Sarah MacDonald, a spokeswoman for Barclays, declined to
comment.  ‘Further Upside’  The profit from today’s transaction is in addition to the
1.46 billion pounds made by Abu Dhabi investors when they sold
more than 1.3 billion Barclays shares in June 2009. PCP3 said it
will retain “further upside” should the shares climb higher.  PCP3 said in a statement today it exercised Abu Dhabi’s
remaining 131.6 million warrants into  Barclays  stock at about
198 pence a share. The emirate converted 626.8 million warrants
on Feb. 17 at the same price. Sheikh Mansour, who also owns
Manchester City soccer club, will retain 758 million shares.  Nomura today sold 220 million Barclays  shares  at 295 pence
apiece, according to a person with knowledge of the transaction
who asked to remain unidentified.  “The exercise and hedging mark the final completion of a
strategy that locks in a significant gain on Barclays Plc  shares 
for PCP3 while retaining further upside,” the investor group
said in yesterday’s statement. “PCP3 will seek to continue to
maintain a close commercial and strategic relationship with
Barclays in the future.”  Collar Strategy  Citigroup Inc. analyst  Leigh Goodwin  wrote in a note to
investors today that Abu Dhabi entered into a collar strategy,
in which a stockholder buys put options on the shares it owns,
financed by the sale of calls on the securities.  Buying put options, which entitle the holder to sell an
underlying security at an agreed price and date, locks in the
stock’s gains. Selling calls, which give the right to buy,
reduces the cost of the transaction while trimming potential
returns if the shares increase.  Barclays  shares fell 6.9 percent between the start of
October 2008 and yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexis Xydias  at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 merritt1@bloomberg.net . 