-- Nude Koons, Ratatat, Rebel Bingo, Tony’s Angels: N.Y. Weekend
-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 2010-10-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/nude-koons-ratatat-rebel-bingo-tony-s-angels-n-y-weekend.html
Ride the 50-foot Ferris wheel, play
balloon darts and chow down on some chicken “lips” and thunder
pickles. You may even want to bring a kid.  The Park Avenue Armory’s four-day carnival kicks off at 3
p.m. today, with traditional midway rides and games. Plus
jugglers, stilt-walkers, contortionists and magicians.  You’ll be able to equip yourself with a balloon dachshund -
-or even learn to make one yourself.  At 643 Park Ave. Information: +1-212-616-3930;
 http://www.armoryonpark.org/   Friday Night  Head over to Terminal 5, where rock instrumentalist duo
 Ratatat  are bringing their slick swagger. Composed of Mike
Stroud and Evan Mast, Ratatat creates hook-heavy knockers that
have a strong melodic backbone.  After cutting their hip-hop teeth on a couple of tracks for
 Kid Cudi ’s album, the pair focused on their own music and are
now touring for their newest work, LP4.  Also playing are Massachusetts party animals, DOM, who
trade in fuzzy rock-pop too good to be entirely ironic. Expect
Dom to bring out the sun and surf while Ratatat ices it right
down.  Terminal 5 is at 610 W. 56 St. Information: +1-212-582-
6600;  http://www.terminal5nyc.com/   Saturday  Jeff Koons  now prefers business suits, but once upon a time
he spent many hours wearing nothing at all. Relive those happy
days at “Made in Heaven” which features his more X-rated work.  First exhibited two decades ago at the Venice Biennale, the
monumental paintings show Koons and his then-wife, porn star
 Ilona Staller , known as “La Cicciolina,” performing all kinds
of explicit sexual acrobatics. Ah youth.  Our beloved narcissist would probably have a stroke
repeating some of these scenes featuring spiky heels, extreme
nails, bottomless lingerie, and opportune nakedness everywhere.  Take one home. Prices range from $1 million to $3 million.  You’ll need to make an appointment at Luxembourg & Dayan
Gallery, 64 E. 77th St. Information: +1-212-452-4646;
 http://www.luxembourgdayan.com   Open House  New York City is throwing its 8th Annual Open House
weekend, so put on a pair of walking shoes and explore some of
the 350 available sites around town.  Check out the grandly designed mausoleums at the  Woodlawn
Cemetery  in the Bronx, tour the city’s oldest home, now the
 Wyckoff Farmhouse Museum  in East Flatbush, Brooklyn, or visit
Staten Island’s  Jacques Marchais Museum of Tibetan Art , housed
in exotic buildings evoking a mountain monastery, complete with
a fish and lotus pond.  In Manhattan, the selection is a diverse mix, ranging from
the studio of  Diane von Furstenberg  and  Murray’s  underground
cheese caves in Greenwich Village, to the Centurion,  I.M. Pei ’s
luxury midtown condominiums.  Free, but reservations are required for many of the sites.  Information: +1-212-991-OHNY;
 http://www.ohny.org/weekend/listings.cfm   Saturday Night  Hit Rebel Bingo, but shhh, don’t be followed to the secret
venue. Started in London, now state-side in Brooklyn, the
Underground Rebel Bingo Club is guaranteed to be loud and sweaty
as sultry Bingo wenches deliver expletive-laced number calls.  The lucky few will win stellar prizes, which in the past
have included a vuvuzela, a full-body panda costume and an
inflatable swimming pool.  The evening’s ringleader, James Flames, stirs the crowd
into a fevered dancing mass. Among the U.R.B.C. rules: “No
Boring People, No Wankers,” so self-select.  The secret door opens at 9 p.m. with no admittance past 10
p.m.  Information:  http://rebelbingo.com/index.html   Sunday  Catch “Millennium Approaches” and “Perestroika,” both
parts of  Tony Kushner ’s seven-hour epic “Angels in America” at
the Signature Theater.  Set during the first wave of the AIDS crisis, the Pulitzer
Prize-winning work takes on politics, culture, generational
conflict, homophobia, Mormonism and plenty of other issues with
wit and dramatic intelligence.  Making appearances are the funny/vicious right-wing lawyer
Roy Cohn, the ghost of Ethel Rosenberg, the world’s oldest
rabbi, and, inevitably, a prophetic angel.  Zachary Quinto, Zoe Kazan and Christian Borle lead an all-
star cast. Prepare to be astonished.  In previews now at the Signature Theatre, 555 W. 42 St.
Information: +1-212-244-7529;  http://www.signaturetheatre.org   (With assistance from  Katya Kazakina ,  Jeremy Gerard , and
 Lili Rosboch .  Zinta Lundborg  is an editor for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 