-- Obama Heads Home to Chicago to Rally Behind Friend Seeking His Old Seat
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2010-10-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/obama-heads-home-to-chicago-to-rally-behind-friend-seeking-his-old-seat.html
President  Barack Obama  told Democrats
in Chicago yesterday that they need to rally behind him to beat
Republicans in November’s elections, as he tried to boost the
chances of the man seeking the U.S. Senate seat he once held.  Democratic candidate  Alexi Giannoulias  is “not in it for
the special interests, he’s in it for your interest,” Obama
said at the Drake Hotel. “I hope you’re fired up. I need it.”  The president’s appearances at two fundraising events
marked his second visit in a little more than two months for
Giannoulias, who is also scheduled to receive a fundraising stop
next week from first lady  Michelle Obama .  Obama has placed his political capital and prestige on the
line for the race, which offers a symbolic referendum on the
president.  Mark Kirk , the Republican nominee, and Giannoulias have
spent much of their campaign debating who is least trustworthy.
Giannoulias has dealt with fallout from the April failure of his
family’s Broadway Bank, while Kirk was forced to apologize for
exaggerating his biography.  Obama criticized the “Pledge to America” that Republicans
have offered voters as a plan for governing if they win
majorities in Congress, calling it the “same stuff they’ve been
peddling for years.”  Republicans are counting on apathy among Democrats, he
said, urging donors to “prove ‘em wrong.”  Fundraising Trips  Obama is making more fundraising and voter mobilization
appearances as the Nov. 2 election draws closer. Earlier
yesterday, he appeared at an event to boost Maryland’s
Democratic governor,  Martin O’Malley .  Giannoulias, 34, is the Illinois state treasurer and an
occasional Obama basketball buddy, while Kirk, 51, is a five-
term congressman from Chicago’s northern suburbs. The two are
scheduled to debate this weekend on NBC’s “Meet the Press.”  The Chicago Tribune, the state’s largest newspaper, posted
an  endorsement  of Kirk on its website at about time Obama was
getting off Air Force One. The Chicago Sun-Times  endorsed 
Giannoulias.  Pat Brady, chairman of the Illinois Republican Party, told
reporters on a conference call yesterday that Obama’s visit is
the equivalent of a Republican president needing to rally
supporters in a party stronghold such as Alabama.  “If they have to bring in this kind of horsepower in a
state like Illinois, which has been blue for a while, then the
party in general is in trouble,” Brady said.  Brady highlighted the state’s 10.1 percent  unemployment
rate  in August, Illinois’ $6.1 billion in unpaid bills and that
it has the largest retirement underfunding among U.S. states.
Democrats control all statewide offices.  Democrats ‘Mess’  “It could not get any worse in Illinois, and the blame for
that mess rests solely on the Democrats,” he said.  The first family visits could rekindle local interest in
the Senate race that has faded amid an unexpected mayoral race
that may feature Obama’s former chief of staff,  Rahm Emanuel .  The return of Emanuel to Chicago to explore a potential
mayoral bid to replace retiring Mayor  Richard M. Daley  has
overshadowed the Senate race this month.  Emanuel has secured Obama friend and fundraiser  Mellody Hobson , president of Chicago-based Ariel Investments LLC, as a
co-chairwoman for a potential campaign.  Campaign Funding  Obama netted about $1 million for Giannoulias when they
last appeared together in Chicago on Aug. 5. Giannoulias raised
less than half as much as Kirk during the quarter that ended
June 30, the most recent total available, and had about one-
fourth as much in the bank.  Scott Burnham, a spokesman for the Giannoulias campaign,
said Obama would help raise more than $750,000 during this
visit, to be shared with the Democratic Senatorial Campaign
Committee.  After his talk at the hotel, Obama attended a fundraiser at
the Chicago home of  Leslie Bluhm , the daughter of billionaire
 Neil Bluhm , who is managing principal of  Walton Street Capital
LLC  of Chicago and was a fundraiser for Obama’s 2008
presidential bid.  The president was greeted at O’Hare International Airport
by Illinois Governor  Pat Quinn , a Democrat trailing in  polls 
against Republican state Senator  Bill Brady , who is not related
to his state party’s chairman.  Since June, Giannoulias has had fundraising visits from
Vice President  Joe Biden , Education Secretary  Arne Duncan , Obama
senior adviser  David Axelrod , White House Deputy Chief of Staff
 Jim Messina  and 2008 presidential campaign manager  David Plouffe , who is helping the administration in the midterm
elections.  Outside Groups  Outside groups and political parties spent about $3.4
million in Illinois last month,  Federal Election Commission 
records show. That made it the fourth-most active state for
independent expenditures, which aren’t coordinated with
candidates, after Missouri, Colorado and Pennsylvania.  Obama’s Chicago visit was part of a White House effort to
fight a tide in November’s congressional elections that
threatens Democratic control of the House and possibly the
Senate. The party’s loss of the Illinois seat would boost
Republican chances of gaining the 10 needed to win a Senate
majority.  A Chicago Tribune/WGN-TV  poll  taken Sept. 24-28 showed
Giannoulias held a statistically insignificant lead of 38
percent to 36 percent. The survey, which showed 17 percent
undecided, had a 4 percentage-point error margin.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
 Roger Runningen  in Chicago at 
 rrunningen@blooomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  