-- Local Government Employment in U.S. Falls to Lowest Since 2006
-- B y   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u   a n d   A s h l e y   L u t z
-- 2010-10-08T23:56:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/local-government-employment-in-u-s-falls-to-lowest-since-2006.html
The number of workers employed by
local governments fell to the lowest level since October 2006 as
U.S. cities and towns reduced the ranks of teachers and other
school employees in a bid to cut costs.  Local governments employed 14.2 million, or 76,000 fewer 
people last month than in August, the biggest one-month decline
since  July 1982 , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Of the
jobs cut,  50,000  were in education.  “State and local governments, particularly local
governments, probably didn’t recall a lot of teachers,”  Stuart Hoffman , chief economist of  PNC Financial Services Group  in
Pittsburgh, said in a Bloomberg Television interview. “That is
the weak spot in the report.”  Cuts in  education , to a four-year low of 7.9 million jobs,
reflect the struggle of local governments to balance budgets
amid declining property values and falling tax receipts,
according to the  National League of Cities . Local general-fund
revenue was projected to drop 3.2 percent in fiscal 2010 from
2009, when it fell 2.5 percent, the group  said  Oct. 6.  Nationwide, nonfarm employment fell by 95,000 while the
unemployment rate  held  steady at 9.6 percent, the Labor
Department said today. The economy lost 159,000 government jobs,
almost half of them temporary Census workers, while
nongovernment employers added 64,000.  Dropping Jobs  Government employment at the local level  declined  by 76,000
jobs, the Labor Department said. More than half, 55 percent, of
local government employees work in schools, the agency  said . At
the state level, 46 percent work in education.  Since reaching record highs in mid-2008, local government
employment has dropped 2.4 percent while those employed in
education fell 2.5 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Losses in education are concentrated in September because
seasonal adjustments take into account the number of teachers
who return to work as school years begin. A greater number than
usual didn’t come back last month, producing the drop, said
 Heidi Shierholz , an economist with the Washington-based  Economic
Policy Institute . The nonprofit research group focuses on issues
as they affect lower- and middle-income workers.  “Unlike other professions, there’s a clear calendar” for
teachers, Shierholz said in a telephone interview.  Triple Threat  The effects on public education will be long-lasting, Ed
Muir, a researcher with the Washington-based  American Federation
of Teachers , said in a telephone interview. The union has about
1.5 million members in 43 states, according to its website.  “We’ll be in the midst of this fiscal state crisis mode
for a long time,” Muir said. “We’re dealing with three
dynamics: fewer staff, rising enrollment and rapidly rising
student poverty.”  In August, President  Barack Obama  signed into law a plan to
provide $26 billion to help states pay Medicaid bills and
prevent firings of teachers and other public workers.  “The weakness in public-sector employment is a drag on the
private sector as well,” Obama said today at a speech in
Bladensburg, Maryland. “We need to continue to explore ways
that we can help state and local governments maintain workers
who provide vital services.”  Not in Time  The $268 million in federal employment aid allotted to New
Jersey may have come too late to help this year, said  Frank Belluscio , a spokesman for the New Jersey School Boards
Association.  “It appears that the majority of districts are going to
use that next school year,” Belluscio said by telephone.  The education job cuts, which were concentrated in
September as the school year started, are unlikely to repeat
themselves, said  Richard Berner , co-head of global economics at
 Morgan Stanley  in New York.  “There might be some lingering weakness in general in
state and local employment, but I don’t think the cutting of
teachers will continue in coming months,” Berner said by
telephone.  Schools funded by state governments fared little better
than local ones. State education employment declined by  7,800
jobs  to 2.39 million. Other state categories increased by 300,
to 2.75 million, according to the Labor Department.  ‘Body Slam’  “The recession put a body slam on state and local tax
revenues,” said  Nicholas Johnson , director of the state fiscal
project at the Washington-based  Center for Budget and Policy
Priorities , which works on issues that affect low- and moderate-
income Americans. “The services people need haven’t gone away
at all.”  Governments have lagged behind private employers in cutting
jobs, the statistics indicate. When job declines were at their
worst during the recession that began in December 2007, private
employment sank by more than 500,000 a month from October 2008
through April 2009. State and local-government employment fell
by no more than 9,000, and rose in some months, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  In each of the past nine months, private employers have
added jobs, according to the data. Local-government jobs
declined in each of those months except March, and state
 employment  fell in six of the nine.  State and local governments have cut spending as slowly as
they can to avoid firing workers, Johnson said by telephone.
“As the states’ reserve funds run dry, they have fewer and
fewer options.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Simone Baribeau  in Miami at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net ;
 Ashley Lutz  in New York at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 