-- Thomas Cook Climbs After Announcing Deal With Co-op Group on U.K. Outlets
-- B y   D a v i d   A l t a n e r   a n d   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 2010-10-08T10:48:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/thomas-cook-co-op-to-merge-u-k-travel-units-creating-1-200-store-chain.html
Thomas Cook Group Plc  and the Co-
operative Group Ltd. plan to merge their U.K. travel and
foreign-exchange units in a deal that will create a 1,200-store
chain and save more than 35 million pounds ($55 million) a year.  The combined business will be the U.K.’s largest travel
retailer and the second-biggest provider of retail foreign
exchange, the companies said today in a statement. Thomas Cook
will initially own 70 percent, and the Co-operative 30 percent.
No cash will be initially exchanged in the transaction.  “This is probably the last consolidation opportunity in
the sector,” Thomas Cook Chief Executive Officer  Manny Fontenla-Novoa  said on a conference call.  Thomas Cook rose as much as 5.1 percent in London trading,
the  steepest gain  since July 13. The company said last month
that it was seeking “substantial” cost savings to counter a
difficult market in the U.K., where consumer confidence is
sliding amid pessimism on personal finances and the economy.  “Today’s deal is a neat solution to addressing the cost
base in the U.K.,”  Nick Batram , an analyst at KBC Peel Hunt in
London, said in a report. He rates Thomas Cook shares “buy.”  Expenses will be reduced by combining headquarters and
back-office functions and consolidating information-technology
systems, the companies said. Some outlets will be shut, though
closures will be kept to a minimum, the executives said.  Job Cuts  Job cuts will be in the “hundreds, not thousands,”
Fontenla-Novoa told Bloomberg TV. The two businesses  employ 
about 9,000 people between them, he said on the conference call.  The cost of delivering the savings will be about 30 million
pounds, according to the statement.  A further 103 shops will be added to the combined business
when Midlands Co-operative joins as a shareholder, taking a 3.5
percent stake out of Thomas Cook’s portion, Fontenla-Novoa said.
 Ian Derbyshire , Thomas Cook’s U.K. CEO, will head the new
company and will have a deputy from the Co-operative Group.  The Co-operative Group, the world’s biggest consumer-owned
co-operative, said in August its first-half travel sales
declined 6.6 percent to 126 million pounds, and profit dropped
70 percent to 400,000 pounds following a volcano eruption in
Iceland and strikes at British Airways Plc.  The Co-op, which has more than 5 million members, is the
U.K.’s fifth-biggest food retailer, biggest funeral-services
chain, biggest farmer, and the third-largest pharmacy retailer.  Thomas Cook gained 6.2 pence, or 3.5 percent, to 185.8
pence at 11:22 a.m. in London trading. The shares have declined
19 percent this year, reducing the company’s market value to 1.6
billion pounds.  The merger doesn’t include any of Thomas Cook’s online
travel operations or U.K. tour businesses, the companies said.  If dividend payments to Co-operative are less than 40
million pounds after four years, Thomas Cook will make up the
difference, the companies also said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Altaner  at   daltaner@bloomberg.net ;
 Armorel Kenna  in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  