-- Hong Kong's Arculli Sees IPOs Beating 2009, More Foreign Company Listings
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2010-10-08T12:48:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/hong-kong-exchange-s-arculli-sees-ipos-beating-2009-more-foreign-deals.html
Ronald Arculli , chairman of  Hong
Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. , expects initial public offerings
on the bourse this year to exceed 2009 as more foreign firms
list their shares in Asia.  “2010 will beat 2009,” Arculli, who heads the operator
of Asia’s third-biggest stock market, said in an interview
in Milan today. About 60 companies raised HK$189.3 billion
($24.4 billion) in 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Hong Kong Exchanges is targeting international businesses
and this year marked the listing of the city’s first Russian and
French companies, United Co. Rusal and L’Occitane International
SA, respectively. Arculli, 71, is meeting company executives in
Italy to attract the country’s businesses to Asia, where there’s
a “high savings rate and good economic prospects.”  “From water to fashion to industry, you have leading
Italian brands that are household names in the world,” said
Arculli, whose Milan trip was organized by UBS AG. “A listing
in Hong Kong would automatically enhance their brand
recognition.”  More than 80 businesses have applied to list their shares
in Hong Kong over coming months, though “I can’t see all of
them getting done,” Arculli said, declining to comment on the
outlook for 2011. There are businesses from “several new
jurisdictions” that plan IPOs in Hong Kong, based on
applications the exchange has already received, and there are
one or two large sales scheduled in coming weeks, he said.  Prada SpA, the Italian owner of the eponymous fashion
label, is studying an IPO in the first half of 2011 and is
considering listing its stock in Hong Kong, three people with
knowledge of the situation have told Bloomberg News. Arculli
declined to name any companies.  The executive also said he doesn’t expect competition
from dark pools, trading systems that match orders anonymously,
to increase next year. Trading on dark pools accounts for about
3 percent of the Hong Kong exchange’s total turnover and that
figure will probably remain “static” in 2011, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elisa Martinuzzi  in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  