-- Ford’s Credit Rating Raised Two Levels by Moody’s
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n   a n d   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2010-10-08T20:24:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/moody-s-raises-corporate-family-ratings-of-ford-ford-credit.html
Ford Motor Co.’s  credit rating  was
raised two levels by Moody’s Investors Service, which said the
automaker’s operating performance “significantly exceeded”
expectations.  The upgrade in Ford’s corporate family rating to Ba2 from
B1 is the fifth Moody’s has given the second-largest U.S.
automaker in the last 13 months. Ford, which has $27.3 billion
in automotive  debt , remains two levels below investment grade.
Moody’s said it has a stable outlook on Ford’s debt and its
finance subsidiary, Ford Motor Credit Co.  “The company is well positioned to continue generating
strong earnings and cash flow through 2011, and to further
strengthen its balance sheet,”  J. Bruce Clark , Moody’s senior
vice president, said in a statement today. “At the same time
that the industry’s business practices have become more
disciplined, Ford is coming to market with an exceptionally
strong product portfolio.”  Returning to investment grade, which Ford slipped out of in
2005, has become “a rallying cry within the company,” Chief
Financial Officer  Lewis Booth  said last month. Ford paid down
debt by $7 billion in the second quarter. It continues to have
larger obligations than General Motors Co., which had its
balance sheet cleansed in bankruptcy last year.  Ford, based in Dearborn, Michigan, is the only major U.S.
automaker that didn’t seek bankruptcy protection with the help
of the U.S. government in 2009.  Revival  Since arriving from Boeing Co. in 2006, Ford Chief
Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  has revived the automaker by
expanding the namesake brand and improving quality.  The carmaker  earned  $4.7 billion in the year’s first six
months, its largest first-half profit since 1998. Sales of
redesigned models such the Taurus and Fusion sedans helped
propel Ford’s U.S. sales up 21 percent this year through
September, more than twice the industrywide gain of 10 percent.  “Ford has shifted from being an average high-yield quality
company to better-than-average,” said  Christopher Garman ,
president of Orinda, California-based Garman Research LLC, which
analyzes the high-yield bond market. “They very well could get
back to investment grade.”  Ford’s 7.45 percent notes due in July 2031 rose 0.5 cent to
109 cents on the dollar at 2:44 p.m. in New York, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  General Motors  GM was given a higher credit rating by Standard & Poor’s
Ratings Services than Ford yesterday. S&P cited Ford’s  debt load 
as a reason to rate it below GM.  “We expect Ford’s credit measures to be improving because
of the improvement in the earnings, whereas GM, some of the
balance sheet metrics are strong or relatively better because of
the  debt reduction ,”  Robert Schulz , a Standard & Poor’s credit
analyst, said in an interview yesterday.  Moody’s estimated that  Ford  had reduced its breakeven level
by about 45 percent to achieve profit after selling 1.8 million
vehicles, down from 3.5 million in 2007 and 2008. That was the
result of downsizing of its workforce and streamlining its
operations, Moody’s said.  ‘Disciplined’  “Ford has been at the forefront of embracing the more
disciplined business practices made possible by the
restructuring of the U.S. auto sector,” Clark wrote. “During
the first half of 2010, Ford’s earnings and cash flow generation
significantly exceeded our expectations, largely due to the
competitiveness of its product portfolio.”  Moody’s also lifted Ford’s probability of default rating
two steps to Ba2, indicating that likelihood is decreasing.  Swaps to protect against a default of Ford bonds for five
years have fallen 229 basis points this year to 668 basis points
through yesterday, according to CMA DataVision prices.  Credit-default swaps act like insurance contracts, paying
the owner in the event of a default. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Clark said Ford now has a business model “that is more
robust, more profitable, and more sustainable than we had
expected.”  Ford rose 34 cents, or 2.6 percent, to $13.66 at 4:15 p.m.
in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange, the highest
since April 26. The shares have risen 37 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keith Naughton  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net ;
 Craig Trudell  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  