-- Osborne Says He'd Approve a Bank of England Request for Monetary Stimulus
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2010-10-08T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/osborne-says-he-d-approve-a-bank-of-england-request-for-monetary-stimulus.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said he is prepared to give the Bank of England the
green light for more monetary stimulus if the central bank
judges it’s needed to keep the U.K. economy from slipping back
into a recession.  Osborne said he will bow to any decision made by the
central bank’s nine-member Monetary Policy Committee, led by
Governor  Mervyn King , to expand its 200 billion pounds ($319
billion) bond purchase program, a strategy called quantitative
easing.  “If it makes judgments, then I would basically follow
those judgments,” Osborne told reporters in Washington, where
he is meeting ministers and central bank governors at the
International Monetary Fund.  The Bank of England kept up emergency stimulus and left its
interest rate at a record low as officials debate whether to
join a global push to pump more aid into the world economy. The
pound rose to an eight-month high against the dollar this week
following the decision, which came after official  Adam Posen 
stoked speculation that the bank could loosen monetary policy as
soon as this month.  Other central banks are already signaling they will inject
more economic stimulus to shore up a flagging global recovery.
The Bank of Japan this week established a 5 trillion yen ($60
billion) fund to buy assets. U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on Oct. 4 that further asset purchases may help
the U.S. economy.  ‘Staggered Plan’  Osborne also softened his rhetoric on his plan to implement
the biggest squeeze on government spending since World War II,
saying that, because it will be spread out over several years,
it won’t derail economic growth.  “We have a staggered plan over four years,” Osborne said.
“It does not come into effect overnight.”  Earlier this week, Osborne told the Conservative Party’s
annual conference that the U.K. risks the downgrading of its
top-notch credit rating, market turmoil and rising interest
rates if it delays cuts to public spending.  He said he was “doing it by the book” by cutting welfare,
taxing consumption and reducing tax and regulatory burdens on
companies so that they can stimulate growth. He said an increase
in the value-added tax and an income tax increase to 50 percent
for the highest earners introduced by his Labour Party
predecessor,  Alistair Darling , together with his own plan for 6
billion pounds of spending cuts this year hadn’t hurt the
economy.  “I don’t think you can point to a material impact on the
U.K. economy this year,” Osborne said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gonzalo Vina  in Washington at
 gvina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 