-- Toshiba, DHL, Privacy, Copyright, Bank of America: Intellectual Property
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2010-10-08T13:22:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/toshiba-dhl-privacy-bank-of-america-intellectual-property.html
Toshiba Corp. , a Japanese electronics
maker, settled a patent-infringement fight with contract
manufacturer  Wistron Corp.  over technology used in notebook
computers, legal filings show.  Each agreed to license the other’s patents, and Wistron
will make a payment of an unspecified amount to Tokyo-based
Toshiba, according to a redacted copy of the settlement
agreement filed with the U.S. International Trade Commission in
Washington. The companies also submitted a filing seeking
dismissal of a civil suit in federal court in California.  Toshiba, which said it sold the world’s first notebook
computer in 1985, claimed Wistron was infringing its patents.
Wistron countered that Toshiba was violating its patents. In the
ITC case, Toshiba sought to block imports of Wistron computers,
including the Acer Aspire 4810T notebook computer made by
Hsinchu, Taiwan-based Wistron for  Acer Inc.   The ITC case is In the Matter of Notebook Computer
Products, 337-705, U.S. International Trade Commission
(Washington). The civil case is Toshiba Corp. v. Wistron Corp.,
10cv74, U.S. District Court, Central District of California
(Santa Ana).  Trademarks  DHL’s French Trademark Ruling Valid Across EU, Court Aide Says  Deutsche Post AG’s DHL Express unit should face the
consequences of a French trademark-infringement ruling and fines
across the 27-nation European Union, an adviser to the region’s
highest court said.  An order of a national court barring an infringer from
using a registered trademark has effect “in principle” across
the EU, Advocate General Pedro Cruz Villalon, an adviser at the
 European Court of Justice  in Luxembourg, said in a non-binding
opinion yesterday. The court follows such advice in a majority
of cases.  The case dates back to a trademark dispute DHL Express’s
French unit lost against La Poste’s express delivery service
Chronopost in a 2007 ruling by the Paris appeals court. The
court at the time said that DHL Express had breached
Chronopost’s EU trademark rights for the name Webshipping by
using the same word for online courier services.  The Cour de Cassation, France’s top court, in June 2009
 sought  the EU tribunal’s guidance whether such a ruling is valid
across the 27-nation EU or only in France.  Jorg Wiedemann, a spokesman for DHL, said by e-mail that the
company doesn’t comment on pending litigation.  The case is C-235/09, DHL Express France SAS v Chronopost
SA.  Privacy  Privacy Rights Questioned in Government Contract Case  U.S. Supreme Court  justices signaled they are prepared to
give the federal government broad latitude to ask questions
about the background of independent contractors who work at
federal facilities.  Hearing arguments Oct. 5 in Washington, a majority on the
court voiced skepticism about a ruling limiting government
inquiries about contract workers at a California jet propulsion
laboratory owned by the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration.  The case offers the court a chance to say whether the
Constitution protects against the disclosure of private
information, though several justices suggested they wanted to
skirt that issue. The court could say that the questions,
including one asking references for adverse information, were a
reasonable way to protect against security risks, regardless of
any privacy right.  “Look at the private employment sphere,” Justice Anthony
Kennedy said to the lawyer for 28 workers who are challenging
the policy. For sensitive positions, “the employer could be
sued and would be remiss if it did not ask this question.”  The case concerns policies developed after the 2001
terrorist attacks. A San Francisco-based federal appeals court
said the government was going too far in asking contract workers
about drug treatment and counseling within the previous year.
The appeals court also said the government couldn’t ask a
worker’s references open-ended questions about the job
applicant’s suitability for employment.  Justice Sonia Sotomayor said the court couldn’t resolve
those issues without addressing the scope of constitutional
privacy protections. She questioned whether the government had
unlimited authority to ask about a job applicant’s sexual
activity and other topics that concern “fundamental rights.”  Acting U.S. Solicitor General Neal Katyal, the federal
government’s top litigator, said the court didn’t need to reach
that issue to resolve the case before it. He said the disputed
questions were legitimate ones that many private employers ask.  Justice Antonin Scalia made clear he was willing to go
further and reject the notion of a constitutional protection for
so-called informational privacy. He said the issue was one for
Congress to decide.  Other justices signaled they were more interested in a
narrow ruling, saying the disputed questions seemed legitimate.
Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg said open-ended questions are
“routinely used in employment situations.” Justice Samuel
Alito said he didn’t know “what the alternative as a practical
matter is.”  Justice Elena Kagan isn’t taking part in the case because
she was involved in it as a government lawyer. The federal
government will need the votes of five of the other eight
justices to overturn the lower court ruling.  The workers’ lawyer, Dan Stormer, said the Pasadena,
California, facility is on a low-security campus where visitors
can come and go with little scrutiny. He said many of the
employees being scrutinized have been working at the facility,
which is operated by the California Institute of Technology, for
20 or 30 years and weren’t in sensitive positions.  That line of argument drew resistance from Chief Justice
John Roberts, a onetime Justice Department official. “It’s a
big government, and they can’t tailor every inquiry, every form,
to the individual applicant,” Roberts said.  He voiced a degree of concern about the question concerning
drug treatment and counseling.  “It’s one thing to say I had a drink. It’s another to say
I’m in AA,” he said, referring to Alcoholics Anonymous.  The justices will rule by July in the case, NASA v. Nelson,
09-530.  Copyright  Commerce Department Seeking Input on Copyright and Internet  The U.S. Commerce Department’s Internet Policy Task Force
on Oct. 5 issued a notice of inquiry seeking comment from all
copyright holders, Internet service providers, and consumers on
the protection of copyrighted works online.  The agency is also inviting comments on the relationship
between copyright law and innovation in the Internet economy.  According to the agency’s website, the initiative seeks to
identify policies that will generate benefits for those who own
copyrights while maintaining the flow of information online.  Commerce Secretary Gary Locke launched the Internet Policy
Task Force in April. The Task Force comprises staff members from
the National Telecommunications and Information Administration,
the International Trade Administration, the National Institute
of Standards and Technology and the Patent and Trademark Office,
and is coordinated through Commerce’s Office of Policy and
Strategic Planning.  For the link to the Task Force’s website,  click here.   MGM Lenders to Vote on Streamlined Bankruptcy Plan  Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc . began soliciting votes from
lenders for a streamlined bankruptcy plan that would turn over
management of the struggling film studio to Spyglass
Entertainment.  Creditors would exchange more than $4 billion in debt for
about 95 percent of the equity when MGM emerges from bankruptcy,
the Los Angeles-based company said yesterday in a statement.
Spyglass and its affiliates would get about 5 percent of the
equity in exchange for some assets.  Spyglass Entertainment Co-Chairmen Gary Barber and Roger
Birnbaum, who produced the supernatural thriller “The Sixth
Sense” and “Seabiscuit,” previously signed a non-binding
letter of intent to operate the studio and swap the rights to
their film library for a stake in MGM, people with knowledge of
the situation said.  MGM will seek bankruptcy court approval for the two men to
assume the top management roles at the studio. Votes on the
proposal are due by Oct. 22, the company said. Voting is limited
to holders of secured debt as of Oct. 4 under MGM’s April 8,
2005, credit agreement, the company said.  Trade Secrets  Bank of America Sues Ex-Programmer for Stealing Files  Bank of America Corp.  sued a former employee, claiming he
stole 21 confidential files that included profit-and-loss
figures, current securities trading positions and company risk
assessments.  Rao Chalasani, a computer programmer, e-mailed the files to
himself the night before the company was to announce it was
firing 400 people, including him, Bank of America said in a
complaint filed in federal court in Manhattan today. Chalasani
worked in New York for its global markets portfolio management
group, according to the bank.  “It appears that defendant stole key documents from the
company with the intent of causing harm to Bank of America’s
business and reputation,” the bank said.  Bank of America is seeking a court order requiring
Chalasani to return the files, plus unspecified damages.  Chalasani didn’t immediately return a voice-mail message
left at his home in New Jersey.  On Sept. 30, as part of a security review of large files
sent by  employees  outside the company, Bank of America
discovered that on Sept. 20 at 9:32 p.m., the night before the
firings were to be announced, Chalasani sent the 21 files from
his company e-mail address to a personal address, the bank
claimed.  Bank of America said Chalasani was told on Sept. 22 that he
was to be fired. He was being considered for a position with a
different  department , Chalasani was told, although it wasn’t
certain he’d get the job, Bank of America said in the complaint.  The case is Banc of America Securities LLC v. Chalasani,
1:10-CV-7681, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 