-- Afghan Mosque Bomb Kills 15 People, Including Governor of Kunduz Province
-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a
-- 2010-10-08T18:32:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/mosque-bomb-kills-afghan-governor-prominent-in-fight-with-taliban-rebels.html
A bombing in a mosque in Afghanistan
killed at least 15 people, including the governor of the
northeastern  province of Kunduz , officials said.  The governor, Muhammad Omar, was prominent in the
government’s battle against Taliban guerrillas who have been
expanding their areas of attack from southern strongholds into
northern provinces that for years have been relatively calm.  The U.S. condemned the killing “in the strongest possible
terms,” said State Department acting spokesman  Mark Toner . “By
attacking a place of worship, whoever was responsible has
demonstrated a clear disregard for the Afghan people and the
religion they practice.”  Omar “is among the dead bodies,” Faiz Mohammed Tawhidy, a
spokesman for the governor of neighboring Takhar province, said
by phone from its capital of Taloqan, where the attack took
place. The bomb detonated in the Jamaa Sherkat mosque as Omar
and other men gathered for weekly communal prayers at midday,
Tawhidy said.  At least 15 people were killed and 20 wounded, said
 Interior Ministry  spokesman Zemarai Bashary in the capital,
Kabul. “We are investigating whether this bomb was planted or a
suicide attack,” he said.  Omar was an enduring figure in the north, a former militia
commander during the civil warfare that followed the collapse of
Afghanistan’s communist regime in 1992. He had served as a
governor under President  Hamid Karzai  since the U.S.-backed
overthrow of Taliban rule in 2001.  Toner said the attack wouldn’t slow or stop U.S. work in
Afghanistan. “Together with our international partners, we will
continue to work with the people of Kunduz and Takhar to build a
more secure and prosperous future,” Toner said.  -- With assistance from  James Rupert  in New Delhi and Nicole
Gaouette in Washington. Editors:  Mark Williams , Bob Drummond.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eltaf Najafizada  in Kabul, Afghanistan at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net . 