-- HP, Oracle Lead Acquisition Spree Tearing Down Tech Barriers
-- B y   P e t e r   B u r r o w s ,   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2010-10-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/hp-oracle-lead-acquisition-spree-tearing-down-tech-barriers.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. , Oracle Corp. and
 International Business Machines Corp.  are leading an acquisition
spree that has propelled the value of U.S. technology deals 24
percent to more than $50 billion this year and broken down
decades-old barriers between industries.  The companies are using purchases to become one-stop
providers of products from computers to software to networking
gear, rather than focusing on a niche. A plunge in computing-
industry stocks earlier this week, spurred by concerns that
demand is slowing, makes some targets more affordable.  HP, Oracle, IBM,  Cisco Systems Inc.  and Dell Inc., with a
collective $100 billion in cash, have said they plan to keep
making acquisitions. Buyers will probably scoop up targets in
areas such as storage, software and security, helping them cater
to corporate customers building data centers to handle a Web-
traffic boom, said Charles King, principal analyst at research
firm  Pund-IT  in Hayward, California.  “A lot of tech leaders are repositioning themselves,”
said  Drago Rajkovic , head of technology mergers at Barclays
Capital in Menlo Park, California. “Tech merger and acquisition
activity is going to remain very strong this year and going into
next year.”  Companies have announced $51.9 billion worth of technology
and Internet takeovers in the U.S. this year, up from $41.8
billion in that period of 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The buyers are pursuing a vision of cloud computing,
which lets customers store their software in massive data
centers, rather than in the computer room down the hall. Record-
low borrowing costs have helped spur the deals.  3Par Showdown  To build up its data-center technology,  Hewlett-Packard 
agreed to  spend  $2.35 billion last month for the money-losing
storage maker 3Par Inc., after an 18-day bidding war with Dell
more than tripled 3Par’s share price. Shares of other potential
targets, such as  Riverbed Technology Inc. , Isilon Systems Inc.
and Fortinet Inc., have each climbed more than 25 percent since
the bidding for 3Par was made public.  Cisco’s expansion into computing hardware has put pressure
on HP, IBM and Dell, the leaders in that industry, to respond.
Cisco, the world’s  biggest maker  of networking equipment,
introduced its own line of servers in March 2009. The effort,
originally code-named Project California, is beginning to gain
traction with big customers, says  Dominic Orr , chief executive
officer of one of Cisco’s networking rivals, Aruba Networks Inc.  “That’s creating a lot of nervousness,” Orr said.
“Nobody wants to be Californicated by Cisco.”  Investment Banks  The acquisitions are a boon to the largest investment
banks. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. has advised companies in more
than 30 percent of U.S. technology deals this year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Morgan Stanley and Barclays Plc’s
Barclays Capital ranked second and third.  The price HP paid for 3Par was about 10 times the company’s
revenue over the past four quarters. The premium reflected a
growing urgency to use acquisitions to fuel growth and
underscores the dearth of affordable runners-up.  “The public markets are pricing in premiums that, frankly,
are going to prevent some deals from happening,” Cisco Senior
Vice President  Ned Hooper , who handles corporate business
development, said in an interview. “The companies that are
winning in the market are responsible players.”  Oracle , the world’s second-largest software company,
snapped up almost 70 companies in the past five years. In
January, it bought Sun Microsystems Inc., marking a foray into
computer hardware. Last month, it used the  acquisition  to
introduce high-end servers designed to run Oracle programs
faster than competing machines.  Mainframe Model  Oracle CEO  Larry Ellison  has pledged to acquire more
hardware companies, especially in the chip area. While HP and
Dell use processors from Intel Corp. in their servers, Oracle
plans to build out Sun’s proprietary chip technology.  The race to add businesses hearkens back to the early days
of corporate computing, when IBM’s dominant mainframes included
home-grown chips, software, storage and networking technology.
With the advent of the PC, these technology areas split up into
their own industries.  As companies seek to recapture a mainframe-like model, they
have gaps to fill.  Cisco  is a leader in cyber-security
technology. Oracle, HP and Dell may want to play catch up, said
 Erik Suppiger , an analyst at Signal Hill Capital Group LLC in
San Francisco.  Security Needs  That could make Fortinet, Check Point Software Technologies
Ltd. and  Symantec Corp.  takeover candidates. Shares of Fortinet,
a maker of all-in-one network-security systems, have almost
doubled since the company went public last year. Check Point
sells firewalls and other safeguards, while Symantec is the top
maker of security software.  Intel already snared  McAfee Inc. , the second-largest
developer of security software, agreeing to pay $7.68 billion in
August, a premium of more than 60 percent.  The need to find more efficient ways to store ever-
increasing volumes of Internet traffic also is fueling
acquisitions.  Dell , which lost the 3Par bidding war to HP, may
consider buying Seattle-based Isilon, Suppiger said.  Dot Hill
Systems Corp.  in Longmont, Colorado, also develops storage-
management technology.  Silicon Valley investment banker  Frank Quattrone , the head
of Qatalyst Partners, has been contacting potential buyers for
Isilon, said a person familiar with the situation, who didn’t
want to be named because the talks aren’t public.  Right Place  “If you’re in the right spot at the right time, the sky is
the limit,” said  David Spitz , head of Pacific Crest Securities’
software and security investment banking group in San Francisco.  Mounting competition with  Cisco  is prompting computer
companies to look at networking technology as well. IBM, which
left the networking business in 1999, bought Blade Network
Technologies Inc. last month. That company makes switches that
connect servers. Other candidates include Radware Ltd., Riverbed
and  Brocade Communications Systems Inc. , as well as privately
held Arista Networks Inc.  F5 Networks Inc. , which makes equipment that routes
Internet traffic through the data center, also would be a worthy
acquisition, though it would likely cost more than $10 billion,
said  Rajesh Ghai , an analyst with ThinkEquity LLC in San
Francisco.  “They’re way ahead of Cisco,” Ghai said. “So if someone
wants to compete with Cisco, such as HP, they would be a very
attractive pickup.”  Software is key to the intensifying cloud-computing wars.
That’s one reason HP chose  Leo Apotheker , the former head of
German software maker SAP AG, as its new CEO last month.  Pricey Software Targets  Likely software targets would be expensive. Red Hat Inc.,
which makes a popular version of the Linux operating system
that’s used in most big cloud-computing projects, has a market
value of $7.2 billion.  Citrix Systems Inc. , a developer of
software that lets companies run corporate applications from a
single data center, rather than from thousands of desktop
computers, is valued at $11.3 billion.  VMware Inc., whose virtualization software helps customers
operate hundreds or even thousands of servers and other gear as
if they’re a single entity, has a $31.9 billion market value.
Most of the company is owned by  EMC Corp. , making it harder to
acquire.  “We’re seeing the beginning of what could be a coming wave
of M&A activity,” said Andy West, who oversees McKinsey & Co.’s
high tech M&A practice. “The case for strategic buyers has
become more compelling.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Peter Burrows  in San Francisco at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net ;
 Joseph Galante  in San Francisco at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net ;
 Serena Saitto  in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 