-- Peru Central Bank Keeps Rate at 3% in Surprise Bid to Limit Sol's Advance
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2010-10-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/peru-central-bank-keeps-rate-at-3-in-bid-to-limit-sol-s-gains.html
The Peruvian central bank’s surprise
decision to keep the benchmark lending rate unchanged signals
policy makers are seeking to stem the 3.6 percent rally in the
sol this year, according to Banco Santander SA.  The seven-member board, led by bank President  Julio Velarde , kept the bank’s  reference rate  at 3 percent, surprising
all except one of 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Most
analysts had predicted the central bank would raise rates for a
sixth consecutive meeting.  “They’ve held the rate to control the inflow of dollars to
the currency market,” said  Gonzalo Navarro , head trader at
Santander in Lima. “With inflation under control, the central
bank can start to worry about the currency.”  The Peruvian central bank said in a  statement  accompanying
the decision that the move was based on economic data, including
a 0.03 percent decline in consumer prices last month.  The bank’s move yesterday comes as central bankers in
emerging nations warn that interest rates that exceed those in
developed markets are attracting capital inflows, leaving them
vulnerable to exchange rate appreciation and overheating.  Peruvian policy makers have increased bank reserve
requirements and introduced new securities in efforts to limit
gains in the sol, which has risen 3.6 percent this year against
the dollar.  The five interest rate increases earlier this year coupled
with greater fiscal restraint by the government will continue to
damp inflation pressures and slow economic growth to more
sustainable levels, said  Mario Guerrero , an economist at
Scotiabank Peru in Lima.  Economic Growth  Gross domestic product grew 9.1 percent in July from a year
earlier,  lower than analysts’ forecast  for 10.4 percent and down
from 11.9 percent in June.  “A good part of inflation this year has come from supply-
related factors, such as weather, harvest, fuel or wheat,” said
Guerrero, the only analyst surveyed by Bloomberg to correctly
predict today’s decision. “The trajectory of annual inflation
will slow in the remaining months” of this year.  The bank introduced new securities this week designed to
discourage investors from selling dollars in the local foreign-
exchange market and to temper demand for the sol. Policy makers
are concerned that currency volatility poses a threat to
borrowers who have taken out loans in dollars. A stronger
currency also makes Peruvian exports more expensive in dollar
terms, potentially cutting into profits for local companies.  Last week’s increase in deposit requirements for a fourth
time since June signaled that policy makers are uneasy with both
surging credit and higher interest rates that draw more foreign
capital into the country and increase volatility in the sol,
said  Daniel Volberg , an economist at Morgan Stanley in New York.  Currency Purchases  The central bank  purchased  $8.74 billion in the first nine
months of this year to temper the currency’s gains.  Investors have plowed a record $49.4 billion into emerging-
market stock funds this year and $39.5 billion into bond funds,
EPFR Global data show.  “The prospects of sustained low interest rates in the
advanced countries have contributed to a surge in capital flows
to some emerging markets, putting upward pressures on exchange
rates, creating overheating pressures, and carrying risks of
increased vulnerabilities and reversals,” finance officials
from the Group of 24, which includes Brazil, Mexico and Nigeria,
said in a statement after talks in Washington yesterday.  Peru’s economy is no longer in danger of overheating after
the bank raised the benchmark rate 1.75 percentage points this
year, Velarde said Sept. 17.  August Indicators  Growth continues to abate, according to economic indicators
for August.  Cement  demand advanced more slowly than in July
while fishing, mining, and agricultural activity contracted,
according to the National Statistics Institute.  The pace of annual growth may have slowed to 8.7 percent in
the third quarter from 10.1 in the second quarter, according to
the central bank.  The government is winding down investment under its
stimulus package, which will lower the risk of demand-led
pressures and send consumer prices higher, BBVA Banco
Continental said Oct. 1. The  annual  inflation rate last month
rose to 2.37 percent from 2.31 percent a month earlier, near the
middle of the bank’s 1 percent to 3 percent target range.  Rising inflows as well as increased company and government
spending propelled Peru to the  fastest GDP growth  since 2008 in
the second quarter. Concern that the expansion may be
unsustainable prompted the bank to increase its reference rate
in August and September by a half-point, up from a quarter-point
at its three previous meetings.  Private investment continues to spur demand for credit,
which caused bank lending to rise 19 percent in August from a
year earlier, the fastest annual growth since April 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Quigley  in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  