-- Petropavlovsk's IRC Halves Hong Kong Initial Public Offer to $240 Million
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2010-10-08T16:36:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/petropavlovsk-s-irc-halves-hong-kong-initial-public-offer-to-240-million.html
Petropavlovsk Plc ’s iron ore unit,
 IRC Ltd. , cut the size of its initial public offering in Hong
Kong by more than half to about $240 million, according to a
sales document sent to fund managers today.  IRC will offer new shares at a fixed price of HK$1.80
apiece, or 40 percent off the high end of an earlier price
range, according to the document. Petropavlovsk decided not to
sell any existing shares at the lower valuation of the revised
price, according to the document sent by e-mail.  Stock-market swings have led to 98 IPOs being postponed or
canceled globally this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, as concern that the economic recovery is slowing
stalls investment. IRC’s loss for the six months through June
was $51.7 million, narrowing from $125 million a year earlier.  Petropavlovsk said it will alter the terms of the offering
after demand from investors failed to meet its “highest
expectations.” IRC plans to publish an additional prospectus in
Hong Kong which will result in a “short delay” in the
timetable, London-based Petropavlovsk said in a statement today.  Petropavlovsk fell 51 pence, or 4.8 percent, to 1,020 pence
at the 4:30 p.m. close of London trading, the lowest since Aug.
26. The stock posted today’s fourth-biggest drop in the  FTSE 250
Index .  Greater Risk  “The company is still losing money, so the risk is higher
than other new stocks,” Jaseper Tsang, an analyst at Capital
Securities Corp., wrote in a research note. “We recommend
investors to buy only a small amount for trading purposes.”  IRC, which has iron ore projects in Russia, previously
offered 1.325 billion shares at HK$2.20 to HK$3 each to raise as
much as HK$3.98 billion ($513 million), according to a Sept. 29
press release. About 80.8 percent of the shares previously
offered were to be newly issued.  IRC’s reduction contrasts with Mongolian Mining Corp.’s IPO
this month. Mongolia’s biggest closely held coking-coal producer
increased its price range and sold shares at the mid-point of
the revised range.  Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit, Bank of China
International Holdings Ltd. and UBS AG are managing the IRC
sale. IRC joins commodity producers including  United Co. Rusal ,
the world’s largest aluminum maker, in raising funds in Hong
Kong as Chinese raw-material demand jumps.  Project Development  Proceeds from the IPO will be used to develop mines, IRC
has said. The company’s projects have resources of 1.1 billion
metric tons of iron ore, according to its press release last
month.  The Kuranakh development in the Amur region is its only
producing facility. The company is developing the K&S venture,
which may cost $400 million in its first phase, Petropavlovsk
said in March. The mine would have capacity of 3.2 million tons
of iron ore concentrate a year from 2013. IRC also plans to
develop the Garinskoye deposit.  Petropavlovsk is Russia’s third-biggest gold producer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bei Hu  in Hong Kong at   bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at   apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Hwee Ann Tan at   hatan@bloomberg.net . 