-- Petrobras to Raise $60 Billion in Debt Over the Next Five Years, CEO Says
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   C a r l o s   C a m i n a d a
-- 2010-10-08T15:09:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/petrobras-plans-to-raise-60-billion-in-debt-markets-in-next-five-years.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA , the Brazilian
oil company that sold $70 billion of stock last month in the
world’s largest offering, plans to now turn to debt markets to
raise $60 billion in the next five years to finance investments.  The state-run oil producer doesn’t plan other stock sales
to fund its $224 billion investment plan, Chief Executive
Officer  Jose Sergio Gabrielli  told reporters late yesterday in
Rio de Janeiro. The company is reviewing its spending program
and expects to have a new one by the end of the first quarter.  The company aims to have as many as 35 billion barrels of
reserves and hire 14,000 people by 2014, Gabrielli said. That’s
an 18 percent boost to employment for the company based in Rio
de Janeiro. Petrobras aims to double production to 5.38 million
barrels a day by 2020 by tapping deep-water fields, including
the Tupi find, the Americas’ biggest discovery in three decades.  “No oil company in the world would let this opportunity
pass by,” Gabrielli said. “For Petrobras, this is not a
challenge.”  Petrobras  gained 0.3 centavos to 25.58 reais in Sao Paulo
at 12:07 p.m., interrupting a four-day decline that sent the
stock to its lowest level since March 2009. It’s down 30 percent
this year, more than the 28 percent plunge for BP Plc, the
producer that set aside $32.2 billion to pay for the worst oil
spill in U.S. history.  “It’s an absolute certainty” that Petrobras will have to
increase its investment plan,  Scott Darling , a Dubai-based
analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc., said in an Oct. 6 interview.
The company wouldn’t have much trouble raising that debt because
it has “a great balance sheet,” he said.  Rating Concerns  Petrobras is rated BBB by Fitch, the second-lowest
investment grade, with a stable outlook. Standard & Poor’s rates
Petrobras one level lower, at BBB- after cutting it a year ago
on concern the company’s investment program was too big. Moody’s
Investors Service has a Baa1 rating, three levels above junk.  Petrobras may see its credit rating slip to “the weaker
side of the rating category” following its share sale,  Daniel Kastholm , managing director of Latin America corporate finance
at Fitch Ratings, said in an interview last week.  As part of the sale, Petrobras sold about $42.5 billion of
stock to Brazil’s government in exchange for the rights to
develop 5 billion barrels of oil reserves. Petrobras plans to
boost production by tapping deposits trapped under a layer of
salt beneath the ocean floor.  Government ‘Instrument’  “Petrobras is virtually an instrument of government
economic policy and this can be detrimental to investment
returns,” said  Alfonso Gomez , who manages about $50 million of
Latin American shares including Petrobras at Clariden Leu.  Brazil will exert influence on how much Petrobras invests
in its “low” margin refining business or how much drilling
equipment must be bought from local suppliers “and that may go
against the interest of the company,” Gomez said in an
interview from Zurich.  Gomez said he didn’t participate in the company’s recent
share sale.  “I am quite skeptical that Petrobras can perform as well
as the rest of the Brazilian market,” he said.  Petrobras may sell $15 billion a year in debt between 2011
and 2014 to pay for the expanded investment plan, Nomura’s
Darling said in a note to clients this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Juan Pablo Spinetto  in London at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net 
Carlos Caminada 
 ccaminada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  