-- Petrobras to Raise $60 Billion in Debt Markets Following Record Share Sale
-- B y   C a r l o s   C a m i n a d a   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2010-10-08T03:00:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/petrobras-to-raise-60-billion-in-debt-markets-in-five-years.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA , the Brazilian
oil company that sold $70 billion of stock last month in the
world’s largest offering, plans to now turn to debt markets to
raise $60 billion in the next five years to finance investments.  The state-run oil producer doesn’t plan other stock sales
to fund its $224 billion investment plan, Chief Executive
Officer  Jose Sergio Gabrielli  told reporters late yesterday in
Rio de Janeiro. The company is reviewing its spending program
and expects to have a new one by the end of the first quarter.  “It’s an absolute certainty” that Petrobras will have to
increase its investment plan,  Scott Darling , a Dubai-based
analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc., said in an Oct. 6 interview.  Petrobras  extended its worst performance among the world’s
biggest oil producers yesterday after falling in Sao Paulo to
the lowest price since March 2009 on concern its $70 billion
stock sale exhausted demand for the shares. It’s down 31 percent
this year, more than the 27 percent plunge for BP Plc, the
driller that set aside $32.2 billion to pay for the worst oil
spill in U.S. history.  The company may see its credit ranking slip to “the weaker
side of the rating category” following its $70 billion share
sale,  Daniel Kastholm , managing director of Latin America
corporate finance at Fitch Ratings, said in an interview last
week.  Petrobras is rated BBB by Fitch, the second-lowest
investment grade, with a stable outlook. Standard & Poor’s rates
Petrobras one level lower, at BBB- after cutting it a year ago
on concern the company’s investment program was too big. Moody’s
Investors Service has a Baa1 rating, three levels above junk.
The company, based in Rio de Janeiro, aims to double production
to 5.38 million barrels a day by 2020 by tapping deepwater
fields, including the Tupi find, the Americas’ biggest discovery
in three decades.  Petrobras plans to boost production to 5.38 million barrels
a day by tapping deposits trapped under a layer of salt beneath
the ocean floor. As part of the $70 billion share sale,
Petrobras sold about $42.5 billion of stock to Brazil’s
government in exchange for the rights to develop 5 billion
barrels of oil reserves.  The company aims to have as many as 35 billion barrels of
reserves by 2014, Gabrielli said. The company will hire 14,000
people by then, he said.  Petrobras may sell $15 billion a year in debt between 2011
and 2014 to pay for the expanded investment plan, Darling said
in a note to clients this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Juan Pablo Spinetto  in London at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net 
Carlos Caminada ou
 ccaminada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  