-- Petters Bankruptcy Trustee Sues Florida Investor's Firms for $3.2 Billion
-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s   a n d   B e t h   H a w k i n s
-- 2010-10-09T00:26:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/petters-bankruptcy-trustee-sues-florida-investor-s-firms-for-3-2-billion.html
The U.S. bankruptcy trustee for
Petters Group Worldwide LLC, seeking to recoup more than
$3.2 billion for creditors, sued two investment firms that it
says were founded by Florida financier  Steve Stevanovich .  Seventeen funds affiliated with the financier’s Westford
Investment Management LLC and Epsilon Investment Management LLC
were named as defendants in the complaint filed today by trustee
Douglas Kelley. Stevanovich also was named as a defendant in the
lawsuit in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Minneapolis.  Petters Group principal  Thomas Petters  was convicted by a
federal jury in St. Paul, Minnesota, of leading a $3.5 billion
Ponzi scheme and sentenced in April to 50 years in prison.
Kelley has filed more than 200 so-called clawback lawsuits since
Sept. 1 against those who he says improperly received payouts.  “Stevanovich received millions in false profits through
his active and direct involvement in the Petters Ponzi scheme,”
according to the complaint filed today.  The financier, who resides in Delray Beach, Florida
according to the complaint, couldn’t immediately be reached for
comment. No working phone number for Stevanovich or his
businesses could be located on the Internet.  Stevanovich maintains a residence in Montreux, Switzerland,
according to the complaint. In 2007, he pledged to donate $7
million to a University of Chicago research center, now named
the  Stevanovich Center for Financial Mathematics .  $3.2 Billion Transferred  The trustee seeks to recover $3.2 billion in transfers made
to the Stevanovich entities from April 2001 to October 2008,
when Petters Group filed for bankruptcy.  At least 344 transactions took place, involving
$2.47 billion in principal, as well as re-invested profit of at
least $408 million.  In the complaint, Kelley alleges the defendants knew or
should have known the investments were fraudulent. Petters’s
businesses issued promissory notes to Stevanovich’s Westford and
Epsilon funds that accrued interest at an annualized rate of
48 percent.  Kelley today also sued  General Electric Capital Corp. ,
seeking the return of $185 million. He also filed suits against
M&I Marshall and Isley Bank and a hedge fund operated by  Thane Ritchie .  The trustee also sued former Petters Group Chief Executive
Officer  Mary Jeffries  and Camille Chee-Awai, who was chief
operating officer of Petters Co.  The case is Kelley v. Westford Special Situations Master
Fund LP, 10-04396, and the main bankruptcy case is In Re Petters
Co., 08-45257, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Minnesota
(Minneapolis).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
 Beth Hawkins  in St. Paul, Minnesota, at 
 hawkins@visi.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 