-- PG&E Sued By Residents Over Deadly Northern California Natural Gas Blast
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2010-10-08T00:20:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/pg-e-sued-by-residents-over-deadly-northern-california-natural-gas-blast.html
PG&E Corp.  was sued over claims the
company was negligent in causing the Sept. 9 natural-gas
pipeline explosion in San Bruno, California, that killed eight
people.  The lawsuit, filed last week in state court in Redwood
City, California, seeks recovery of unspecified damages. It also
requests an order enforcing payment of the $100 million PG&E
said will be used to compensate those hurt by the blast. The
complaint by injured San Bruno resident Daniele DiTrapani
mirrors claims in a previous suit filed against PG&E.  For as long as four weeks before the blast, “residents in
the Crestmoor neighborhood smelled natural gas and attempted to
get PG&E to investigate the problem,” according to the Sept. 29
complaint. “The threat from the PG&E explosion for San Bruno
continues today” as residents are “contaminated by debris,
ash, toxins, and other chemicals.”  Federal investigators are seeking to determine the cause of
the explosion and fire that destroyed 37 homes, and left a
crater 72 feet (22 meters) long and 26 feet wide. A 28-foot
section of the pipe was blown out of the ground about 100 feet
from the crater, according to Christopher Hart, vice chairman of
the National Transportation Safety Board.  A Sept. 17 complaint was filed in the same court by Steve
Dare, a San Bruno resident who claims he suffered injury and
damage due to the explosion. Both complaints seek class-action,
or group, status.  ‘Corrective Action’  PG&E is investigating claims in the suits, and will take
“appropriate, corrective action” if any of the claims are
valid, company spokeswoman Katie Romans said today in an
interview. “Our focus remains on helping the San Bruno
community recover from this tragedy.”  PG&E reviewed all calls from the neighborhood back to July
1 and found no complaints in the month before the blast, Chief
Financial Officer Kent Harvey said on Sept. 28 during an
investor conference. The utility responded to a gas leak
complaint in the area on July 23 and fixed a small leak near a
meter, Harvey said. It responded to another call on July
27 and found no leaks, he said.  The cases are DiTrapani v. PG&E Corp., CIV499291, and Dare
v. Pacific Gas & Electric Co., CIV498932, California Superior
Court, San Mateo County (Redwood City).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joel Rosenblatt  in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 