-- Philadelphia Inquirer's Sale Closes; Editor Marimow Will Become a Reporter
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2010-10-08T21:24:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/philadelphia-inquirer-s-sale-closes-editor-marimow-will-become-a-reporter.html
The  Philadelphia Inquirer , the 181-
year-old newspaper, was taken over today by hedge funds and
other lenders who replaced the editor responsible for two of the
publication’s 18 Pulitzer Prizes.  William K. Marimow  will step down as editor of the Inquirer
and become an investigative reporter, Philadelphia Media Network
said in a statement today. Marimow won two Pulitzer prizes as a
reporter at the paper.  The sale is the second attempt by the lenders to buy the
Inquirer and Philadelphia Daily News out of bankruptcy. Last
month, they backed out of a deal to acquire the assets of
Philadelphia Newspapers LLC because of opposition from the
Teamsters union.  “These were difficult negotiations that required sacrifice
and tough decisions on all sides, but at the same time they
include provisions that preserve jobs and benefits as we work to
rebuild the newspapers and the website,”  Robert J. Hall , the
new chief operating officer for Philadelphia Media Network, said
in the statement.  The new owners signed contracts with all 15 of the
company’s unions that will save $23 million a year in labor
costs, Publisher and Chief Executive Officer  Greg Osberg  said in
an interview yesterday. Philadelphia Media Network is the new
holding company for the Inquirer, the Daily News and the website
Philly.com.  Marimow declined to comment today, referring questions to
Osberg. Assistant Managing Editor Stan Wischnowski will serve as
acting editor. Osberg didn’t return calls for comment.  Winning Bid  The lenders, including hedge funds Angelo Gordon & Co. and
Alden Global Capital, won a second auction for the company on
Sept. 23, outbidding  Raymond Perelman , father of billionaire
 Ronald Perelman , with an offer of $105 million in cash plus the
assumption of liabilities related to the newspapers’ buildings.  Philadelphia Newspapers filed for bankruptcy in February
2009, blaming the recession and a decline in advertising. The
filing came more than two years after  Brian Tierney , a public-
relations executive, and local investors, including the
Carpenters Union pension fund, purchased the company from
McClatchy Co. for $515 million.  Philadelphia Newspapers listed assets and debt of as much
as $500 million each in court papers.  The case is In re Philadelphia Newspapers LLC, 09-11204,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania
(Philadelphia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Church  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 