-- Poland Said to Receive Orders For $1.4 Billion Stake in Power Utility PGE
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i
-- 2010-10-08T14:52:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/poland-said-to-receive-orders-for-1-4-billion-stake-in-power-utility-pge.html
Poland has received orders to sell as
much as 10 percent of state-owned utility  PGE SA  for up to 4
billion zloty ($1.4 billion) at a lower share price than last
year’s initial public offering, two people familiar with the
transaction said.  The shares of PGE, the country’s largest power utility,
will be valued at up to 21.3 zloty each, they said. The utility
held Europe’s largest  initial public offering  last year, selling
15 percent of its shares at 23 zloty apiece. PGE’s stock
declined 1.3 percent to close at 21.31 zloty at 4:30 p.m. in
Warsaw, the lowest level in more than two months.  The sale is part of a plan to raise 25 billion zloty as the
government seeks cash to help fund the budget deficit and curb
borrowing needs. Poland has signed deals to sell 20.7 billion
zloty of assets, including the sale of Energa SA, the fourth-
largest utility, to PGE for 7.53 billion zloty. Opposition from
the antitrust regulator, who says that transaction would
unfairly limit competition, may keep the ministry from reaching
its 25 billion-zloty 2010 asset-sale target.  “It looks like the government had to sell the stake as it
needs cash for the budget,” said  Franciszek Wojtal , a Warsaw-
based analyst at Bank Millennium SA. “The potential sale of
Energa is being delayed and so this may be a reason why they
decided to sell the stake even below last year’s IPO price.”  Block Transaction  Poland holds 79 percent of PGE and is required by law to
keep its stake higher than 50 percent.  Maciej Wewior , a spokesman for the Treasury Ministry,
wasn’t immediately available to comment when contacted.  A stake of 14.9 million shares, or 0.8 percent of PGE,
changed hands in a  block transaction  on the Warsaw Stock
Exchange at 3:18 p.m., at 21.3 zloty a share, bourse data
showed.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., Citigroup Inc., Credit Suisse Group
AG and UniCredit SpA are global coordinators for the
transaction. Goldman Sachs Group Inc., KBC Groep NV, PKO Bank
Polski SA and Societe Generale SA are acting as joint
bookrunners.  Poland plans to sell assets for about 55 billion zloty from
2010 to 2013, according to a program published last month. The
bulk of the revenue will come from reducing the state’s stakes
in insurer  PZU SA  and the country’s largest bank by assets  PKO
Bank Polski SA  to 25 percent from 45 percent and 51 percent,
respectively.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
 Pawel Kozlowski  in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Hauck at 
 dhauck1@bloomberg.net  