-- Potash Default Swap Costs Fall as Odds of BHP Takeover Grow: Canada Credit
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2010-10-08T11:21:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/potash-swap-costs-fall-as-odds-for-bhp-bid-grow-canada-credit.html
Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. 
bondholders appear more confident  BHP Billiton Ltd. ’s $40
billion bid for the Canadian fertilizer maker will succeed.  The cost of hedging against losses in debt of Potash Corp.
for five years with credit-default swaps tumbled 38 basis points
to 111 basis points yesterday from Sept. 23, according to
Bloomberg data. It was the fourth-best performing credit-default
swap in Canada during the past week.  “There’s only one legitimate bid out there,” said  Sheldon Dong , a fixed-income analyst at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD
Securities unit in Toronto. The BHP bid is “much more
bondholder-friendly and I think that’s what the credit default
swaps are reflecting.”  BHP is trying to buy Potash Corp. to become a bigger
producer of the natural fertilizer of the same name, which is
needed to meet growing demand for soybeans, corn and other crops
in China and India. Potash Corp., based in Saskatoon,
Saskatchewan, has rejected the $130-a-share all-cash offer BHP
made Aug. 17 and said it had started talks with other parties.  “Bondholders think the company is going to be acquired by
BHP,” said  John Stephenson , portfolio manager at First Asset
Management Inc. in Toronto, which own about 100,000 shares of
Potash Corp. BHP’s higher credit rating and all-cash offer adds
to the appeal for Potash Corp. bondholders, he said.  “They’re financing it through cash and you can’t get any
more secure than that,” Stephenson said.  BHP’s long-term debt is rated A+ by Standard & Poor’s
while Potash Corp.’s debt ranks two levels lower at A-. Both
ratings are investment grade.  Extra Yield  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own the debt of Canada’s companies rather than federal
government securities narrowed yesterday 1 basis point to 144
basis points from a day earlier, according to a Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index. Yields were lower at 3.62 percent.  In the provincial debt market, spreads were 1 basis point
lower at 57 basis points during the same period. The yield
dropped to 2.96 percent from 2.97 percent the day before.  The province of Nova Scotia sold an additional C$300
million ($295 million) in 4.7 percent bonds maturing in 2041 to
yield 92.5 basis points over governments.  S&P revised its outlook on New Brunswick to negative from
stable while affirming its AA- rating. The revision reflects
“deteriorating budgetary performances and a rising debt
burden,” the rating company said.  Debt Auction  Canada will auction C$3 billion ($2.9 billion) of 2-year
notes on Oct. 13, according to a statement on the Bank of
Canada’s website. The 1.5 percent securities mature in December
2012.  The Bank of Canada will publish its survey of senior loan
officers at 10:30 a.m. Toronto time, which may show that banks
are making it less expensive and easier for businesses to
borrow. The central bank will also publish its business outlook
survey, which will show whether executives are having difficulty
accessing credit.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  The decline follows a seven-day surge in default costs for
debt of Potash Corp. as investors were concerned that company
executives, backed by a foreign investor, might try to issue
fresh debt to buy the company to stave off the bid by Melbourne-
based BHP.  No Rival Bid  Sinochem Group, China’s largest fertilizer trader, may
struggle to get state financial backing for a takeover, making a
deal unlikely, said two people with knowledge of the matter.  Saskatchewan Energy and Resources Minister  Bill Boyd  said
Oct. 6 in an interview with Bloomberg Television that he doesn’t
see a rival bid emerging.  “We have had no other contact, formally or informally,
with a company about entering a bidding war,” he said. “We
don’t see that happening so far.”  While Boyd said he doesn’t see a “net benefit” to
Saskatchewan from the offer, BHP’s bid would have “few”
negative effects apart from C$2 billion in lost government
revenue, a report from the Conference Board of Canada said.  That report will form part of the province’s submission to
a review of BHP’s offer under the Investment Canada Act, which
the federal government will use to decide whether to approve a
bid.  Transparent Bid  The appeal to bondholders of the BHP purchase is its
transparency, said TD Securities’ Dong. “The BHP bid is fairly
clean. BHP buys Potash, the debt is assumed by BHP. If BHP needs
to issue more debt, it’ll be under its name.”  The spread, or difference in yields on comparable Potash
Corp. and BHP bonds, narrowed to 62 basis points on Oct. 6 from
77 basis points on Sept 30. BHP’s 6.5 percent bonds due in 2019
yield 3.12 percent and Potash Corp.’s 6.5 percent note due in
2019 yields 3.74 percent. Both bonds have returned about 12
percent this year, including interest.  While the Canadian government extended its review of BHP’s
bid by 30 days on Oct. 4, China’s government has indicated it
would prefer Sinochem finance any takeover without credit from
state banks, two people familiar with the matter said.  “The potential for another bid has diminished
significantly,” said  Edlain Rodriguez , an analyst with Gleacher
Co. in New York, who has a “neutral” rating on Potash. “It’s
for BHP to win or lose.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hugo Miller  in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  