-- U.K. Gilts Rise as Stock Losses Boost Demand for Safer Assets
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2010-10-08T15:52:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/pound-set-for-weekly-drop-against-the-euro-on-economic-growth-outlook.html
U.K. 10-year government bonds rose,
capping their third weekly gain, as a decline in stocks after a
report that showed the U.S. lost more jobs than forecast fueled
demand for the safest assets.  Gains today pushed the 10-year gilt yield to the lowest in
more than a month as the  FTSE 100 Index  of stocks declined for a
second day. The  National Institute of Economic and Social
Research  said the U.K. economy’s pace of growth more than halved
in the third quarter. U.S. employers fired 95,000 workers after
a revised 57,000 decrease in August, Labor Department figures in
Washington showed today. The median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a 5,000 drop.  “Gilts are doing rather well overall, as the market is
still concerned about what the Bank of England and Federal
Reserve will do,” said  Orlando Green , a fixed-income strategist
at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in London.
Central banks may make “a concerted effort to stimulate global
growth through monetary stimulus. That is a supportive factor
for gilts, as well as all bonds in general,” he said.  U.K. government bonds rose 0.5 percent to 115.44, the
highest since Aug. 31, with the 10-year yield dropping 6 basis
points to 2.87 percent as of 4:07 p.m. in London. The two-year
yield similarly dropped 4 basis points to 0.61 percent.  The U.K.’s gross domestic product rose 0.5 percent in the
three months through September, compared with 1.2 percent in the
quarter through June, the London-based Niesr, whose clients
include the Bank of England, said late yesterday. The Bank of
England yesterday left interest rates at a record low and
maintained bond purchases to stimulate the economy.  Pound Gains  The pound also rose against the dollar and euro after the
U.S. jobs data and Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President
 James Bullard’s  comments that the risk of a double-dip recession
has “probably receded.”  Sterling strengthened 0.3 percent to 87.43 pence per euro,
after earlier depreciating to 88.06 pence, the weakest level
since May 7. The currency is 0.3 percent weaker since Oct. 1. It
also climbed 0.4 percent to $1.5941, extending a weekly gain
versus the dollar to 0.8 percent.  The cost of goods at factory gates rose by 0.3 percent in
September, according to a report from the U.K. statistics office
today. That’s above the median forecast of 18 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey for a 0.1 percent gain.  Sterling has lost 4.7 percent this year against a basket of
its developed-country peers, according to Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Currency Indexes, amid speculation that the U.K.’s
economic recovery is slowing before government spending cuts are
imposed to reduce a record budget deficit.  The statistics office will publish its own first estimate
of third-quarter growth on Oct. 26, six days after the
government announces details of its cuts.  A report by Lloyds Banking Group Plc’s Halifax division
yesterday showed  U.K. house prices  plunged in September by the
most since at least 1983, when the gauge began. Other data from
the Office for National Statistics showed  manufacturing output 
increased in August by more than economists predicted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
   lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephen Morris  in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  