-- Pre-Election Jobs Report May Stoke Voters' Anger
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2010-10-08T13:25:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/pre-election-jobs-report-may-stoke-voters-anger-at-democrats.html
When President  Ronald Reagan  led his
Republican Party into the 1982 midterm elections during what was
then the worst recession since the Great Depression, the fact
that his party lost only 26 U.S. House seats was characterized
as a victory. President  Barack Obama  may not be so lucky.  Reagan’s party also retained its 54-46 majority in the
Senate. The 10.4 percent unemployment rate on the eve of that
election was almost a full percentage point higher than now and
rising. By contrast, the nonpartisan  Cook Political Report 
estimates that Obama’s Democrats this year will lose at least 40
seats in the House, costing the party control, and as many as
nine of its 59 Senate seats.  Obama, 49, inherited an economy in crisis, and  joblessness 
has barely budged from a 26-year high of 10.1 percent reached
last October. With unemployment a top issue for voters, a Labor
Department report released today, the last before the Nov. 2
elections, showed companies added 64,000 workers to payrolls,
less than forecast and down from a 93,000 increase in August.
The jobless rate held at 9.6 percent.  “The Democrats’ dilemma right now comes back to the jobs
report,” said  Steve Jarding , a professor at Harvard
University’s Kennedy School of Government and a Democratic
strategist. “People are saying it just doesn’t seem to be
getting any better.”  Presidential Election  And the picture isn’t likely to improve anytime soon: In
the 2012 election year, when Obama would run for a second term,
the unemployment rate will average 8.2 percent, according to the
 median estimate  of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. It was 7.7
percent in January 2009, when the Democrat took office.  Reagan focused throughout 1982 on a consistent message:
“Stay the course,” which he urged in speeches from his
February budget message through campaign swings late into
election season.  The Obama White House has alternated between celebrating
improvements in economic indicators early in the year and
calling for patience over the long run. While the administration
has touted its $814 billion stimulus plan as the means to create
jobs, its focus was distracted for much of the year by a drive
to pass health-care legislation, the struggle over a financial-
regulatory overhaul and the response to the BP Plc oil spill in
the Gulf of Mexico.  ‘Numbers Improved’  “In one month the numbers improved, they were trumpeting
that, and the next month when they didn’t, they were talking
about the long run,” said  Chris Lehane , who was press secretary
to former Vice President  Al Gore ’s 2000 presidential campaign.  Given voter anger over the Obama-backed stimulus plan and
the $700 billion bank bailout, the  unemployment rate  has become
a measure of success for voters, Jarding said. In a Gallup poll
conducted Sept. 13-16, 61 percent of respondents cited the
economy or jobs as the most important problem facing the
country.  White House Press Secretary  Robert Gibbs  said the economic
crisis Obama inherited was greater in scale and complexity than
the one Reagan confronted.  “The president has made decisions that, while they might
not have been the most politically popular, they were what we
had to do to stabilize our financial system, save the auto
industry, and jump start the economy,” Gibbs said. “Now we’re
seeing it begin to create jobs. We just need it to happen
faster.”  ‘Other People’s Money’  Republicans have seized on the job issue. Obama “doesn’t
know how to create a job except his reliance on spending other
people’s money and doing those things that a kind of socialized
government would do,” former Republican vice presidential
candidate  Sarah Palin  said on Fox News this week.  While stimulus spending on roads and transportation
construction are identifiable through highway signs, much of the
funding has gone to ventures that aren’t always visible to
voters. That includes aid to state and local governments to
prevent layoffs of government workers and funding for broadband
access, clean-energy projects and electronic medical records.  “It creates the perfect storm for Republicans to come in
and say, ‘They’re spending your money and you got nothing,”
Jarding said.  The economic impact of the stimulus package peaked during
the second quarter, according to the Congressional Budget
Office. As a spring surge in payrolls was followed by slower job
growth over the summer, Democrats focused on a new jobs message.  Additional Aid  Congress was mired in partisan fights on economic
legislation: an extension of unemployment benefits passed in
July, an aid package to stave off layoffs of local government
workers was approved in August, and aid for small businesses
passed in September.  In September, Obama called for new measures to promote
jobs, including an infrastructure bank and business tax breaks.  The president regularly reminds voters that their economic
problems started under his Republican predecessor, President
 George W. Bush . Republicans, he says, are like a person who has
driven a car into a ditch and is demanding back the keys.  Obama has “at least muddied things with the ditch message
enough to give Democrats the running room to turn the tables on
Republicans” and hold down their losses, Lehane said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mike Dorning  in Washington D.C. at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net . 