-- Premier League Approves Red Sox's John Henry to Purchase of Liverpool
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2010-10-08T15:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/premier-league-approves-red-sox-s-john-henry-to-purchase-of-liverpool.html
Boston Red Sox owners  John W. Henry 
and  Tom Werner  have been cleared by the Premier League to
complete their 300-million-pound ($478 million) purchase of
England’s most successful soccer team, Liverpool.  The duo and three associates,  David Ginsberg ,  Jeffrey Vinik 
and  Michael Gordon , have passed a director’s and owners test.
They are attempting to buy the club through  New England Sports
Ventures.  “The Premier League is satisfied, with the information
provided, that the individuals NESV intend to put in place in
the event they complete their takeover of Liverpool FC meet the
criteria set out in our owners’ and directors’ test,” according
to a statement.  NESV’s takeover still requires court approval to go
through. Co-owner  George Gillett  and  Tom Hicks  say the deal is
unlawful because they don’t recognize the board that approved
the accord.  Hicks and Gillett next week need to repay a 237-million
pound loan, which is majority-owned by Royal Bank of Scotland
Plc. They say chairman  Martin Broughton  acted illegally in
blocking their efforts to replace board members  Ian Ayre  and
 Christian Purslow  with two of Hicks’s associates hours before
the deal was struck two days ago.  Broughton said in an interview after NESV had been
announced as the team’s prospective owners that he had a written
undertaking that only he could change the composition of the
club’s board. Broughton was appointed chairman in April and was
given the responsibility, along with Barclays Capital, to find a
buyer.  “There were no such undertakings given to Broughton, the
board has been legally reconstituted, and the new board does not
approve of this proposed transaction,” Hicks’s New York-based
spokesman  Mark Semer  said in an Oct. 6 statement to Bloomberg
News.  If the sale can’t go ahead or is indefinitely delayed, RBS
can put the club’s parent company Kop Football (Holdings) Ltd.
into bankruptcy protection and take control of the team, before
selling it to NESV or other groups. That would likely incur a
nine-point penalty under the league’s insolvency rules.  Liverpool is 18th in the 20-team Premier League. As the
results stand now, a nine-point deduction would leave it bottom
on -3 if RBS put the team into administration, a form of
bankruptcy protection.  Editors:  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in London at  at
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  