-- Producer Prices Increase More Than Forecast After Raw-Material Costs Jump
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2010-10-08T08:41:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/producer-prices-increase-more-than-forecast-after-raw-material-costs-jump.html
U.K.  producer prices  increased more
than economists forecast in September as raw-material costs
jumped, feeding  inflation  into the economy.  The cost of goods at factory gates rose by 0.3 percent on
the month, the Office for National Statistics said today in
London. The median forecast of 18 economists in a  Bloomberg News
survey  was for a 0.1 percent gain. Raw material costs climbed by
0.7 percent from August.  Bank of England policy makers yesterday kept their bond
stimulus plan unchanged amid a deepening split on whether to
foster growth or combat the threat of inflation. The economy is
showing signs of losing momentum as consumers brace themselves
for the deepest public spending cuts since World War II.  “Given that inflation has been over target for so long,
the fact that producer prices still appear sticky will have an
input on policy makers,” said  Philip Shaw , chief economist at
Investec Securities Ltd. in London. “The economy should expand
but at a relatively lackluster pace and it won’t feel like a
recovery especially as fiscal austerity is being implemented.”  The pound was little changed after the release at $1.5835
as of 9:36 a.m. in London. The yield on the benchmark two-year
government bond was up 2 basis points today at 0.632 percent.  On the year, producer prices increased by 4.4 percent, the
least since February, the statistics office said. Economists
predicted 4.3 percent, according to the median of 20 forecasts
in a Bloomberg News survey. Prices rose from a year earlier in
all categories and only food and petroleum products weakened on
the month, the statistics office said.  Dairy Crest  Dairy Crest Group Plc said last week that its first-half
profit met forecasts, adding the company “achieved selling
price increases to limit the impact of higher input costs.”  Core producer prices, which exclude costs of food, alcohol,
tobacco and petroleum, rose by 0.4 percent on the month and 4.6
percent from a year earlier, the statistics office said.  The increase in raw material costs on the month exceeded
the 0.4 percent median forecast of 16 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey. From a year earlier, they rose 9.5 percent.  U.K. inflation unexpectedly exceeded the government’s 3
percent limit for a sixth month in August, with consumer prices
rising 3.1 percent from a year earlier.  Some data indicate the recovery is faltering. Lloyds
Banking Group Plc’s Halifax division yesterday reported a 3.6
percent drop in house prices in September, while jobless claims
rose for the first time in seven months in August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Fraher  at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  