-- Proprietary Traders Earned ‘Trust, but Verify’: Simon Johnson
-- B y   S i m o n   J o h n s o n
-- 2010-10-08T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/proprietary-traders-earned-trust-but-verify-simon-johnson.html
There are two ways regulators can
keep tabs on proprietary traders and their equivalents who can
win big betting their firm’s capital or lose even bigger and
threaten the world financial system.  We can have a part-time lapdog, which is surely what the
banks want, or a guard dog who keeps an eye on them 24/7. Given
everything that happened in the run-up to September 2008 -- and
in the two years since -- it’s pretty clear what we need, though
it remains up in the air what we’ll get.  The Financial Services Oversight Committee  met  for the
first time last Friday. As required by the  Dodd-Frank Act , the
committee issued a request for comments on the proposed
application of the Volcker Rule, which requires, as insisted
upon by Senators  Jeff Merkley  and  Carl Levin , that large banks
cease to conduct proprietary trading and significantly limit
their private-fund investments to 3 percent of capital.  The request for public comments now is  posted  on the
committee’s website and comments are due by Nov. 5. The
committee needs to make its recommendations by Jan. 22.  Behind the scenes and inside the regulatory debate, there
are two opposing sides developing with regard to how compliance
with the Volcker Rule should be monitored and enforced.  On one side is the view that compliance should be monitored
only through periodic existing supervision and some spot checks.
This was the position that Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke 
took before the Senate Banking Committee last week. His idea
seems to be that the industry will follow instructions and only
needs a moderate degree of broad-brush enforcement.  Another Side  On the other side is the view that enforcement should be
more assertive and based on real-time access to detailed trading
data. The thinking here is that regulators would need the
ability to look at transaction data to understand what is really
going on.  At the same hearing last week Securities and Exchange
Commission Chairman  Mary Shapiro  seemed to take this more trade-
by-trade approach to monitoring and enforcement.  Why not do both? This is the position taken by Merkley and
Levin in a  conference paper  that came out this week.  I  testified  in favor of the Volcker Rule in February to the
Senate Banking Committee on a panel alongside representatives of
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  and JPMorgan Chase & Co., and we
disagreed completely. Given the adamancy with which they argued
so recently against the Volcker Rule, it isn’t unreasonable to
wonder about their intentions now.  Easy to Disguise  If a bank’s management wants to take proprietary risks
using its own capital, these would be relatively easy to
disguise on a trading desk as “customer flow” in some way.
Some big banks have already announced that proprietary trading
jobs will be cut, including at JPMorgan after the firm
reportedly lost $250 million on coal trades in the second
quarter (although perhaps these developments are not connected).
Bank of America Corp. has announced that proprietary traders
will be switched to other jobs within the firm.  But as my colleague Michael Lewis asked last week: how
would anyone know whether proprietary trading reappears in
disguise? Lewis also pointed out that, at least in the case of
Goldman Sachs, some of the most important transactions with
regard to committing or protecting the firm’s own capital in the
recent past were undertaken by their so-called Client Facing
Group. This doesn’t imply there was any deception, simply that
risks can be placed in any number of locations within such an
organization.  Betting Big  We know that big banks like to bet big, particularly as the
credit cycle develops. Sometimes this goes well for them and
their shareholders, and other times it goes badly as it did for
Goldman Sachs when it reported losses on equity derivatives in
the second quarter. When large bets go bad the damage can be so
catastrophic that the entire credit system is disrupted and the
tax payer is again on the hook.  Whatever you hear from politicians, there is no way to
handle the failure of global megabanks because there is no
cross-border resolution mechanism or bankruptcy procedure that
can handle their failure, a point I made with co-author  James Kwak  in “13 Bankers.” The idea that too big to fail has been
legislated away is simply an illusion.  There is nothing anti-business about wanting to enforce the
Volcker Rule. Quite to the contrary, the severity of the
financial collapse in the fall of 2008 was very much about how
big banks acquired and mismanaged huge risks -- not all of which
were within officially designated prop-trading groups -- and in
the process damaged the rest of the financial industry and the
broader economy.  On the Sidelines  You can stand on the sidelines or you can send comments to
the committee; they will only ask once. If you care about future
financial stability and regard the ability of big banks to
endanger the system as unnecessary and inappropriate, you should
consider sending in comments to that effect.  The Volcker Rule may not be perfect but at this stage it’s
almost all we’ve got. And with regard to voluntary compliance by
the big banks, we should reflect on  Ronald Reagan ’s thinking
with regard to nuclear disarmament commitments by the Soviet
Union, “trust, but verify.”  ( Simon Johnson , co-author of “13 Bankers: The Wall Street
Takeover and the Next Financial Meltdown,” is a professor at
MIT’s Sloan School of Management and a Bloomberg News columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Simon Johnson at  sjohnson@mit.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  