-- Rainfall Propels Argentina Past Pakistan in Bond Market: Argentina Credit
-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 2010-10-08T15:38:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/rainfall-propels-argentina-past-pakistan-in-bond-market-argentina-credit.html
Rainfall is producing record soybean
crops in Argentina, boosting the economy and bond market. In
Pakistan, it’s creating deadly floods and hurting the nation’s
credit.  The extra  yield investors  demand to own Argentine bonds
instead of U.S. Treasuries shrank 244 basis points since May 25
to 634 at 11:34 a.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan Chase
& Co. indexes. Pakistan’s borrowing costs rose 100 points in the
same period and its  bonds  now yield 710 more than Treasuries.
Both countries are rated B3 by Moody’s Investors Service, six
levels below investment grade.  Argentina and Pakistan are “trading in opposite
directions,” said  Stuart Culverhouse , the London-based chief
economist at investment bank Exotix Ltd. “The floods have
triggered this reversal.”  Above-average rainfall in the South American country helped
farmers harvest a record 55 million-ton soybean crop, sparking a
surge in commodity exports and the fastest  economic growth  since
1992. Pakistan may see its  gross domestic product expansion  cut
by 2 percentage points after record monsoons caused floods that
left almost 2,000 people dead and 20 million homeless, according
to Prime Minister  Syed Yousuf Raza Gilani .  Argentine bonds yielded 51 basis points, or 0.51 percentage
point, less than Pakistan debt yesterday. The gap between the
two reached 54 basis points on Oct. 6, the  biggest  since Jan. 6,
according to JPMorgan. Argentine debt yielded 268 more than
Pakistan bonds on May 25.  ‘Improving Story’  Argentine debt is also rallying after President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  in June restructured $12.9 billion of
bonds left over from the country’s 2001 default. The central
bank forecasts the economy will grow as much as 9.5 percent this
year.  “When investors are looking at Argentina, they’re seeing
an attractive yield and an improving story,” said  Alejandro Urbina , a Chicago-based emerging-market debt portfolio manager
at Silva Capital Management LLC, which has about $800 million in
advisory and management. “Everything begins to look a little
better as the government is dealing with the holdouts and
because of the strong economic activity.”  Five-year credit-default swaps tied to Argentine debt fell
16 basis points to 720 yesterday. Credit-default swaps pay the
buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities or
the cash equivalent should a government or company fail to
adhere to debt agreements.  Warrants linked to Argentine economic growth rose 0.01 cent
today to 12.12 cents, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The peso was little changed at 3.9584 per dollar.  Inflation Data  Argentina’s debt rating is unlikely to be raised in the
“short term,” said  Gabriel Torres , an analyst at Moody’s
Investors Service. Doubts about the accuracy of Argentina’s
official statistics, including inflation and economic growth,
are an obstacle to the country achieving a better rating, Torres
said yesterday in Buenos Aires.  Consumers expect prices to rise 25 percent over the next
year, more than double the official rate and the most in the
world after Venezuela, according to a Sept. 15 survey by Buenos
Aires-based Torcuato Di Tella University.  “Argentina is a country that has a lot of potential, but
it is also a country we will need to see some structural changes
which actually are not large to make it a really good investment
story,” said  Guillermo Osses , who helps oversee $50 billion in
emerging-market assets at Newport Beach, California-based
Pacific Investment Management Co., the world’s biggest bond fund
manager.  El Nino  Rainfall in Argentina, created by the El Nino phenomenon, a
weather pattern that forms over the Pacific Ocean and affects
climate globally, has boosted the country’s crops. Corn farmers
are planting at a faster rate than a year earlier as recent rain
increased soil moisture levels, which help the grain in its
early growth stages, according to the Buenos Aires Cereals
Exchange.  Planters in Cordoba province, the country’s second largest
corn-growing region, received about 81.1 millimeters (3.2
inches) of rain in September, above the historical average for
the month, according to data compiled by the Cordoba Cereals
Exchange.  The corn crop is forecast to climb to 26 million tons, the
largest ever, Argentina Agriculture Under-Secretary Oscar Solis
said Oct. 4. Wheat output in Argentina, South America’s largest
producer of the grain, will rise 51 percent in the next harvest,
the Buenos Aires Cereals Exchange said on Oct. 30.  The Pakistani prime minister said Sept. 3 floods that began
in July in his country have caused losses worth as much as $7
billion.  “Argentina always traded cheap relative to the B rated
basket and as the economy normalizes, it helps bonds converge to
other similarly rated bonds,” said Exotix’s Culverhouse, who
has a “buy” rating for Argentine debt and “sell” for
Pakistan. “The human impact of the floods in Pakistan is one
thing, but the economic impact has been felt and that has caused
some reversed sentiment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tal Barak Harif  in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  