-- Rand Strengthens as U.S. Jobs Data Boosts Appeal of Higher-Yielding Assets
-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 2010-10-08T15:07:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/rand-weakens-as-gordhan-s-too-strong-concerns-outweigh-fed-easing-bets.html
The rand strengthened after a report
showed the U.S. lost more jobs than forecast in September,
raising the prospect of further monetary easing by the Federal
Reserve and enhancing the appeal of higher-yielding assets.  The currency of Africa’s biggest economy gained as much as
0.9 percent to 6.8452 per dollar and traded 0.7 percent stronger
at 6.8547 by 4:49 p.m. in Johannesburg, from a previous close of
6.9053. Against the euro, the rand appreciated 0.4 percent to
9.5492.  Employers in the U.S. cut staffing by 95,000 workers after
a revised 57,000 decrease in August, Labor Department figures in
Washington showed today. The median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News had forecast a 5,000 drop.  “The prospect of further quantitative easing and long-term
liquidity in the market means better prospects for high yield,
emerging market currencies,” said  Gaelle Blanchard , an
emerging-market strategist at Societe Generale in London. “The
market is looking for carry.”  A sluggish recovery from the U.S.’s worst recession since
the 1930s may prompt the Federal Reserve to step up purchases of
government debt, a process known as quantitative easing, while
at the same time keeping interest rates at near-zero levels.
Benchmark rates of 0.25 percent in the U.S. have encouraged
investors to borrow cheaply in dollars and invest the money in
higher-yielding assets, a strategy called the carry trade, which
has caused the rand to gain 37 percent since the start of 2009.  ‘Too Strong’  South African Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said the rand
is “too strong” given South Africa’s economic fundamentals,
Reuters cited him as saying before a meeting of world finance
ministers at the International Monetary Fund and World Bank this
weekend. The Finance Ministry is working with the central bank
to curb currency gains though it needs to “find more
resources,” Reuters quoted Gordhan as saying.  The rand earlier weakened as much as 0.5 percent to 6.9367
per dollar following the report on Gordhan’s comments. South
Africa’s  6 percent  benchmark interest rate makes the rand an
attractive carry-trade purchase.  “South African authorities clearly desire the rand to be
weaker,”  Stanislava Pravdova , an emerging-market analyst at
Danske Bank, said in a telephone interview from Copenhagen.
“The rand’s strength ignores South Africa’s fundamentals --it’s
clearly the most overvalued currency in the Europe, Middle East
and Africa region.”  Trade unions blame the rand’s surge for hurting the
nation’s economic recovery and worsening its unemployment rate,
which widened to  25.3 percent  in the second quarter. Economic
growth in South Africa slowed to  3.2 percent  in the second
quarter, down from 4.6 percent in the first three months of the
year, and less than half the 7 percent rate the Finance Ministry
says is needed over 20 years to remedy joblessness.  ‘Currency War’  Brazil’s Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  warned last month
of a global “currency war” as developing nations grapple with
currency strength, which can curb exports as the global economic
recovery struggles to take hold. South African central bank
Governor  Gill Marcus  said Sept. 22 she’s in discussions with
“many countries to see what the solution is” to rand gains.  South African government bonds fell for the first time in
four days, with the benchmark 13.5 percent security due
September 2015 losing 18 cents to 125.28 rand. The yield on the
bond increased 4 basis points to 7.29 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  