-- Trapped Miners' Ordeal Nears End in Chile as Drill Bores Down
-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s   a n d   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 2010-10-08T17:50:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/trapped-miners-ordeal-nears-end-in-chile-as-drill-bores-down.html
Chile’s government is making final
preparations to rescue 33 miners as the lead drill advances to
less than 50 meters (164 feet) from where they are trapped
almost half a mile underground.  “The rescue could begin three to four days at the earliest
and eight to 10 days at the latest,” Mining Minister  Laurence Golborne  told reporters today at the mine site. “The miners are
getting all the news. They know as much as you do.”  One of three rescue shafts has reached a depth of 574
meters, less than 50 meters short of the underground chamber
where the men took shelter Aug. 5 when the mine collapsed,
Brandon Fisher, chief executive officer of one of the drill’s
equipment suppliers, Center Rock Inc., said in an e-mail
response to questions. The drill will resume operations this
evening after workers change bits on the machine, he said.  As engineers cut a path to the miners, workers on the
surface are rehearsing plans to extract the miners from
underground and transport them to a nearby hospital. Officials
are also debating whether the two-foot wide shaft the men will
ascend to reach the surface needs to be lined with a steel
casing to ensure the walls won’t collapse.  Casing, Cranes  Officials will decide whether to install the casing after
drilling is complete, Golborne said. Workers would need two or
three days to prepare cranes and other equipment for the
extraction and as long as eight days if they decide to install
casing, he said.  “The decision on whether to install casing will be made
with as much information as possible,” he said. “Partial
casing or not casing at all are options we’re analyzing.”  Rescuers will most likely decide to install a partial
casing before pulling out the men, said Enes Zepeda, a mining
engineer and director of the supervisors’ union at state-owned
 copper  producer Codelco. The state company,  BHP Billiton Ltd. 
and other mining companies assisted in what has become the
world’s longest-ever mine rescue.  “It makes sense to case the first 100 meters for safety
reasons,” Zepeda said yesterday at a press conference in
Santiago. The union is recommending that rescuers do the
additional work to ensure the miners’ safety, even though the
volcanic-rock walls of the shaft appear to be stable, he said.  It will take about 90 minutes to rescue each man, Zepeda
said.  Presidential Greetings  The miners were trapped after an access tunnel caved in at
Cia. Minera San Esteban Primera SA’s San Jose copper and gold
mine in Chile’s northern Atacama region.  Golborne canceled a planned speech in London next week to
monitor the mine rescue, said Cristian Leon, a spokesman at the
Chilean Embassy in London.  President  Sebastian Pinera  may reschedule his trip to
Europe next week to greet the miners as they are rescued, Pinera
said in a radio interview Oct. 4. Bolivian President  Evo Morales 
also wants to attend the rescue ceremony to greet the miner from
his country who is trapped underground, Pinera said in a
televised speech today.  The miners only contact with the outside world has been
through small drill holes into which people on the surface pass
down food, water, medicine and games such as dominoes.  Workers and officials this week will rehearse parts of the
rescue operation, which will entail flying miners by helicopter
to a neighboring hospital from the mine, Golborne said.  Speedy Treatment  “Speed could be important in this case,”  Hernan Rojas ,
director of the hospital in Copiapo, where miners will be
treated, said yesterday in a radio interview.  Once officials reach the trapped miners and give the go-
ahead to begin rescue operations, a tube 24 inches wide will be
lowered into the hole, which measures 26 inches at its narrowest
point, La Tercera newspaper reported Oct. 6. At 120 meters,
rescuers will have to navigate a sharp turn before the hole
drops straight down to the miners, the newspaper reported.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nathan Crooks  in Santiago at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net ;
 Randy Woods  in Santiago at 
 Rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at   jbrice1@bloomberg.net  