-- Battellino Says Australia Faces Capacity Pressures
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2010-10-08T05:06:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/rba-s-battellino-says-australia-growth-faces-capacity-pressures.html
Australian policy makers face the
challenge of preventing the economy from overheating, and higher
interest rates will likely be needed “at some point” to
contain inflation, central bank Deputy Governor  Ric Battellino 
said.  “The economy has been growing continuously for almost 20
years” and “is therefore approaching full capacity,”
Battellino said in prepared remarks in Brisbane today. “The
resources boom that began about 2005, and which abated for a
time during the global financial crisis, is reemerging, adding
to the pressure on capacity.”  Chinese demand for iron ore, coal and other natural
resources is prompting  Chevron Corp.  and other firms to boost
investment, and a report yesterday showed full-time employment
in the past two months had its biggest back-to-back increase
since 1988. The Reserve Bank of Australia, which has led Group
of 20 nations in  raising borrowing costs  six times in the past
year, kept interest rates unchanged on Oct. 5 for a fifth month.  As noted in the RBA’s statement after this week’s meeting,
“if economic conditions evolve as currently expected, it will
be likely that higher interest rates will be required at some
point to ensure that inflation remains consistent with the
medium-term target,” Battellino told the Property Council of
Australia’s Queensland Downtown Luncheon.  Inflation Outlook  Policy makers predict inflation will average 2.75 percent
until the end of next year, before accelerating to the top of
the bank’s 2 percent to 3 percent target range by mid-2012. The
RBA’s measure of so-called core inflation slowed to 2.7 percent
in the second quarter from an annual pace of 3 percent in the
first quarter, a report showed last month.  To prevent  inflation  from accelerating, the central bank
increased the overnight cash rate target by 1.5 percentage
points, to 4.5 percent in May from a half-century low of 3
percent in October 2009.  Economic growth in Australia is expected to pick up from
its current rate of 3.25 percent to closer to 4 percent “over
the next couple of years,” driven by domestic spending,
Battellino said today. Growth in household credit continues to
be moderate, he said.  IMF Warning  The International Monetary Fund cautioned this week that
housing in Australia may be overvalued and a reversal in prices
could hurt consumers. House prices in eight major cities rose by
18.4 percent in the year to June, prompting some analysts to
warn of a bubble.  In contrast, Battellino told today’s gathering that
“borrowing for housing is broadly growing in line with income,
house prices are stable and there is little appetite for other
forms of debt. From the Reserve Bank’s perspective, this seems
to be a satisfactory state of affairs.”  The central bank’s six quarter-point rate  increases  added
about A$3,600 ($3,530) a year to repayments on an average
A$300,000 mortgage.  The deputy governor also said even though the credit
slowdown in Australia was mild compared with contractions
elsewhere, “the downside of that cycle is currently being
played out.” He said that while Australian household debt
levels are “moderate” and many banks are reluctant to lend to
the property developers, “substantial progress” has been made
in the credit adjustment process.  Property Market  The central bank monitors lending to the property sector
“very closely” as “it has important implications for both the
performance of the economy and the stability of the financial
system,” Battellino said.  Traders say there is an 60 percent chance RBA Governor
 Glenn Stevens  will resume increases to the benchmark overnight
cash rate target next month, according to Bloomberg calculations
based on interbank futures on the Sydney Futures Exchange.  The RBA’s previous rate increases have helped make the
Australian dollar the second-best performer among the 16 most
traded currencies this year, gaining 9.4 percent.  Answering questions from the audience after his speech,
Battellino said the strength of the country’s currency affects
the economy and indirectly plays a role in the central bank’s
monetary policy deliberations.  “I’m not so sure whether the issue is whether the
Australian dollar is strong or every other currency is weak,”
he said.  Home Prices  He also said he doesn’t see home prices in Australia
accelerating at an unsustainable pace.  “The crucial thing between Australia and other countries
is that over that period where house prices have risen, we’ve
also had a lot of income growth,” he said. “Currently, house
prices are broadly rising in line with income and that’s an okay
outcome.”  Asked about prospects for China, Battellino said “in the
long term you’ve got to be optimistic” about the world’s
second-largest economy.  “There’s going to be a lot more growth in China over the
next 10 to 20 years,” he said. China is now in the process of
pulling back growth “to the sort of range where I feel they’re
more comfortable with, which is an 8 to 10 percent rate,” he
said.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Michael Heath  in Brisbane 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  