-- Battellino Says Australian Companies Must Accept a Strengthening Currency
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2010-10-08T06:11:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/rba-says-australia-firms-must-accept-strong-currency-as-u-s-parity-nears.html
Australian companies must try to cope
with the drawbacks of a surging currency because the local
dollar reflects a healthy economy overall, the No. 2 official at
the Reserve Bank of Australia said today.  “We have to accept the period of strength in the exchange
rate,” RBA Deputy Governor  Ric Battellino  said in response to a
question after a speech today in Brisbane. “I fully accept it’s
causing some difficulties in businesses.”  The Australian dollar traded within two U.S. cents of
parity with the U.S. currency today, headed for an eighth weekly
gain that would be the longest advance since May 2009. The so-
called Aussie was at 98.24 U.S. cents at 4:39 p.m. in Sydney
from 98.25 cents in New York yesterday, when it touched 99.18,
the strongest level since exchange controls ended in 1983.  “It’s helping the economy on average and not necessarily
every sector,” Battellino said.  The RBA earlier this week left its benchmark interest rate
unchanged at 4.5 percent for a fifth straight month, saying that
borrowing costs will likely need to rise “at some point” to
contain inflation.  Battellino said today the Australian dollar’s level is one
factor that central bankers take into account when deliberating
on the direction of interest rates.  “The dollar is just one of the things that affects the
economy. Through the impact it has on the economy there will be
effects on interest rates because we will take all that into
account,” he said. “But there’s no one-for-one trade-off
between interest rates and the exchange rate. It’s just
something that will feed through the economy and we’ll take that
into consideration when we set interest rates.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Michael Heath  in Brisbane at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at  canstey@bloomberg.net  