-- U.S. Ten-Year Treasuries Fall; Yield Rises 2 Basis Points to 2.40 Percent
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2010-10-08T11:13:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/treasuries-set-for-fourth-weekly-gain-on-speculation-jobless-rate-climbed.html
Treasury 10-year notes fell, paring a
weekly gain, as Federal Reserve policy makers cast doubt on the
likelihood they will boost bond purchases before a government
report that may show the U.S. unemployment rate rose.  Five-year yields rose from an unprecedented low as Reserve
Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard  said the economy
hasn’t slowed enough to make so-called quantitative easing
obvious. Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher  said yesterday
investors shouldn’t assume the central bank will opt for further
asset purchases. The jobless rate probably rose to 9.7 percent
in September from 9.6 percent in August, according to the  median
estimate  in a Bloomberg survey.  “Despite the arguments in favor of QE, the Fed is rather
reluctant and does have a split,” said  Marius Daheim , a senior
fixed-income strategist at Bayerische Landesbank in Munich. “As
long as we don’t see an outright deterioration of the labor
data, I don’t think the market should take that as a signal we
are moving toward QE.”  The 10-year note yield rose 2 basis points to 2.40 percent
as of 6:48 a.m. in New York, according to BGCantor Market Data.
The 2.625 percent security maturing in August 2020 fell 5/32, or
$1.56 per $1,000 face amount, to 101 31/32. The yield headed for
an 11 basis points drop this week.  Five-year  rates  slid as far as 1.1170 percent before
recovering to 1.15 percent. Two-year yields also touched a
record low of 0.3511 percent.  Treasuries have rallied for four weeks as investors bet the
Fed will follow the Bank of Japan in purchasing new bonds, after
New York Fed President  William Dudley , the Boston Fed’s  Eric Rosengren  and Chicago’s  Charles Evans  all advocated further
action. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week the bank has
a duty to aid the economy as unemployment holds near 10 percent.  ‘Reasonable Decision’  “The risk of double-dip recession has probably receded
some in last the six to eight weeks,” Bullard said today in an
interview with CNBC. “The economy has slowed, but it hasn’t
slowed so much that it’s an obvious case to do something. A very
reasonable decision would be to say, ‘maybe we should push it
off a meeting or two and see how the data comes in.’”  Reports today will likely show payrolls excluding
government agencies rose by 75,000, while a drop in public
staffing as the decennial census wound down caused total hiring
to decline for a fourth straight month, according to economist
estimates in separate Bloomberg surveys.  “If we have a weak release, it can assist yields further
downwards,” said  Michael Markovic , a senior fixed-income
strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in Zurich. “The question
is how far we can go. We have already priced in a lot of
probability for more QE.”  Hoenig View  While a lack of jobs underscores concern that the rebound
from the worst recession since the 1930s has been too slow and
may require the Fed to increase its debt purchases, Fisher told
reporters yesterday that it’s not “a done deal.” Policy makers
are still weighing potential advantages and drawbacks of further
purchases, said Fisher, 61, who will vote on monetary policy
next year under the Fed’s rotating system for regional chiefs.  Separately, Kansas City Fed President  Thomas Hoenig  said
the central bank shouldn’t expand its balance sheet.  “I am not at that point yet,” Hoenig said. “I don’t
think we should go that way at all.”  Former Fed Chairman  Alan Greenspan  said yesterday at a
conference in New York that more asset purchases by the central
bank may not be enough to get “money moving” in the U.S.  Greenspan Criticism  Greenspan himself is drawing criticism for his role in
economy. The former central bank chief blundered by limiting
oversight of financial firms, according to the U.S. Treasury
Department’s restructuring chief, Jim Millstein.  “Regulators fell down on their jobs, overcome by the
belief in the power of markets to self-regulate,”  Millstein 
said yesterday at a conference in Dallas.  Wall Street will eliminate about 80,000 finance jobs as
part of the shake-out from the financial crisis, said  Meredith Whitney , founder of Meredith Whitney Advisory Group, in an
interview Sept. 30.  “Treasury yields will decline,” said  Hiromasa Nakamura , a
senior investor in Tokyo at Mizuho Asset Management Co., which
has the equivalent of $36.5 billion in assets and is a unit of
Japan’s second-biggest publicly traded bank. “Today’s number
will be very weak.” Nakamura predicts 10-year rates will drop
to 2.2 percent by year-end.  Ten-year yields, a benchmark for consumer and company
borrowing costs, will fall to a record in the first quarter of
next year, Bank of America Merrill Lynch said in a report.  Easing Outlook  Ten-year rates will fall to 1.75 percent by the end of
March, strategists at Bank of America led by New York-based
 David Woo  said in a report Oct 5. The current record low of 2.04
percent was reached on Dec. 18, 2008.  “The U.S. economic slowdown will continue and the prospect
of a growth recession would force the Fed to respond by
implementing another round of quantitative easing,” Bank of
America said.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices, widened 1 basis point to 193 basis points.  “The whole idea of QE is to raise inflation expectations
so that inflation is equal to or higher than what the Fed
wants,” said  Alex Li , an interest-rate strategist in New York
at Deutsche Bank AG, another primary dealer. “That’s the key
message the Fed is trying to send.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 