-- Reed Says Senate Will Debate China Bill in Lame-Duck Session
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2010-10-08T16:29:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/reed-says-u-s-senate-will-debate-china-currency-bill-in-lame-duck-session.html
The U.S. Senate will consider
legislation aimed at pushing China to raise the value of its
currency in a lame-duck session, Rhode Island Democrat  Jack Reed , a sponsor of the measure, said.  “I believe it’ll come up,” Reed said in an interview
today on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend. “I don’t know if, given the other
pending measures in the lame duck, that it can pass.”  China’s currency is a key topic being discussed during this
week’s meeting of the International Monetary Fund in Washington,
and the House of Representatives passed legislation last month
that would allow U.S. companies to petition for duties on
Chinese imports to compensate for the effect of a weak yuan.  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said China will stick to its
policy of gradually increasing the currency’s flexibility and
this week faulted European Union leaders for joining the U.S. in
pressuring his government to speed its appreciation.  China has capped the yuan’s rise at 2 percent since
relaxing a dollar peg in June, leading to criticism from
lawmakers such New  York Democrat Charles Schumer  and Reed that
it is stunting the recovery in the industrial world by shielding
its market from U.S. and European imports.  “In the short run they see this as a trade advantage, and
they’re exploiting it very aggressively,” Reed said. “They’ve
got to know that there are consequences if the Chinese continue
to politely sort of nod, but do nothing.”  U.S. Leverage  Reed said that even debating the measure in the Senate will
give U.S. negotiators leverage to increase pressure on China’s
leaders.  House Ways and Means Committee Chairman  Sander Levin  said
yesterday that prospects for U.S. legislation pushing China to
raise the value of the yuan depend on action by leaders at the
Group of 20 meeting next month.  The legislation would let U.S. companies bring so-called
countervailing duty complaints against importers of products
that benefit from a weak Chinese currency. A weak currency gives
exporters an advantage over competitors in other nations.  The effects of those cases would be limited because the
U.S. dollar is likely to fall in value and many makers of
products competing with Chinese imports have left the U.S., the
Congressional Budget Office said in a report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Drajem  in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  