-- Reed Says Jones Exit Won't Harm NSC-Pentagon Ties (Transcript)
-- B y
-- 2010-10-08T21:17:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/reed-says-jones-exit-won-t-harm-nsc-pentagon-ties-transcript-.html
Senator  Jack Reed  said that the
selection of Tom Donilon, who lacks military experience, as U.S.
national security adviser won’t harm ties with the Pentagon.
Reed, a Rhode Island Democrat, spoke in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,”
airing this weekend,  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: And we begin the show with Senator Jack Reed,
who’s joining us from Providence, Rhode Island. Senator, thank
you so much for being with us. There was news this morning -  SENATOR JACK REED: Thank you, Al.  HUNT: Jim Jones, four-star general, resigned today as
national security adviser. He’s being replaced by a native of
Rhode Island, Tom Donilon, but Tom Donilon has no military
experience. Background in politics, Fannie Mae lawyer. Isn’t the
military going to consider that a slap?  REED: Absolutely not. Tom Donilon is one of the most
thoughtful and capable strategic thinkers that I know. I’ve
known Tom for 10 years very well. Ironically - or coincidentally
- we’re both graduates of the same high school here in Rhode
Island, LaSalle. He was a few years behind me.  But he is someone who has studied these problems. He worked
with Warren Christopher in the State Department. He has been
diligent in pursuing the issues of national security. He’s got
great managerial skills. He is someone I think is going to step
in and do a superb job. I do want to -  HUNT: Let me just follow up on that, though, because Bob
Woodward, you know, has this book out called “Obama’s War.”
And in it, he says that General Jones got Donilon aside and
said, “You have no credibility with the military. You’ve never
been to places like Afghanistan.”  And Bob Gates, who you
admire a great deal, said he was so offended by some of what he
calls Tom Donilon’s pop-offs that he almost walked out of the
Oval Office. That would seem to be a problem.  REED: Well, I don’t think it’s a problem that is of the
level that’s going to distract from Tom’s service. One is that
he is a very capable individual. Two, he has a profound respect
for the military. He’s not somebody who sees himself as knowing
more than they do. In fact, he wants to know what they know.  So I think you’re going to find someone who’s able to
manage that office very effectively, someone who respects the
military, and someone who’s going to gain - I think already has
gained the confidence. He’s worked closely with many military
officers. He’s someone I think that’s going to make a real and
positive difference.  Jim Jones -  HUNT: One of the -  REED: - as I said - and I do want to compliment - he -he
did - you know, it is good to have someone in that White House
who has led soldiers in combat, Marines in combat, that knows
that at the end of the day it’s those young men and women that
have to do the job. And Jim brought that to the White House. And
others will have to bring that, also.  HUNT: Well, one of the great challenges, of course, will be
Afghanistan. You have been generally supportive of the
president’s policies since his West Point speech. I want to just
read one passage, again, from the Woodward book, and this comes
from Derek Harvey, who was General Petraeus’s top intelligence
adviser, and he said this year that the American political,
diplomatic and military strategy - and I’m quoting now - “is
not going to work. The likely outcome is malign actors,
disruptive, innovative, collapsing government in Kabul, a re-
emergence of violent extremist groups and safe havens.”  Is it time to re-evaluate our Afghan strategy?  REED: I think the Afghan strategy has to be re-evaluated on
an ongoing basis. This is a very dynamic situation. And the
complicating factor is it’s not just within the confines of
Afghanistan; it’s what’s happening in Pakistan. There we’re
seeing tremendous challenges in terms of their cooperation with
us, their ability to function given these flooding and the - and
the - the catastrophic damage that has been done in Pakistan. So
there are so many moving pieces here that this dynamic has to be
looked at frequently.  My sense is that we are beginning to get some traction
militarily in the south. That will, I think, buy us time. But
the key factor - and it’s always been, and it’s alluded to by
Derek’s comment - is, how do you create the governmental
capacity in Afghanistan, military forces, governmental
ministries, that can essentially take what we’ve done, the space
and the time, and use it effectively? That’s still a tremendous
challenge.  HUNT: Well, the troop withdrawal under the president’s
policy is supposed to begin next July. It’s going to be
conditions-based. If the conditions aren’t better than they are
today, do you still expect the withdrawal to start?  REED: I think that a withdrawal will start. I think the
conditions will be better. We’re seeing, again, some traction
down in the south around Kandahar and areas like that. We have
very effective counterterrorism operations that are going on
constantly.  I think you’ll see a withdrawal begin, but, you know, the
size, the pace, the types of units, that’s going to be a
function of those conditions on the ground.  And also, one of the major conditions - and we keep coming
back to this - is the capacity of the government of Afghanistan
and particularly the army of Afghanistan to supplement our - and
effectively supplement our forces.  HUNT: Well, on that - on that vein, as you know, there are
reports that Karzai is trying to negotiate a deal right now with
the Taliban. Is that good news, in the sense that it may provide
a reduced American presence, or is it bad news, because he’s
negotiating from a position of weakness?  REED: Well, he’s beginning these negotiations. But one of
the whole premises behind the president’s build-up and the
actions in the south is that, as these forces put more pressure
on, disrupt more of these Taliban elements, that leverage will
shift from the Taliban. And a year ago, it looked like they had
the momentum and all the leverage. It’ll shift, and it’ll
provide for, I think, better possibility of reasoned discussions
about a political settlement.  Without this kind of operation, without the president’s
build-up, Karzai would not be, I think, negotiating. He might
just be pleading.  So we have to get those countries - those two - all the
factors to the table. And, again, it goes back to Pakistan. They
have influence within the Afghani Taliban. They have influence
there. They have to start exerting that influence in a positive
way -  HUNT: Well, let’s talk about Pakistan. As you know, the
White House report said the Pakistan troops are avoiding
confrontations with the Taliban, they’re not opening the border
crossing the U.S. uses to supply our troops. You know, do we
have to continue to fund and support a government that won’t
take action against the enemy and is blocking some of our supply
routes?  REED: The government of Pakistan has made some progress.
Two years ago, if you told anyone, I think, that they would have
real troops in the FATA, the tribal areas, they’d say, no,
absolutely not. They do have troops there.  But as the report points out, they’re not engaged with some
elements we feel are disruptive, suggesting that they have this
uneasy sort of truce. We want them to make a strategic decision
that these elements are threats to Pakistan as well as
Afghanistan and to take effective action.  They have allowed the United States to conduct Predator
attacks that have degraded and upset and disrupted a lot of
these radical elements, particularly the ones who are planning
operations outside of Pakistan, Afghanistan, in Europe and
elsewhere.  So it is very much of a mixed bag. They have made progress,
but they have not made an essential, fundamental decision and
cut their ties and, in fact, engaged against some of these
terrorist groups. We have to keep putting pressure on them to do
that.  HUNT: O.K., Senator Jack Reed, thank you so much for being
with us today. And when we come back -  REED: Thank you, Al.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP.  #<610805.56910.2.1.67.17757.96>#  #<610690.287720.2.1.67.17757.25>#
-0- Oct/08/2010 21:17 GMT
 