-- Rice Land in Vietnam May Shrink 5% as Cities, Golf Courses Swallow Farms
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-08T08:05:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/rice-land-in-vietnam-may-shrink-5-as-cities-golf-courses-swallow-farms.html
Vietnam, the second-largest rice
exporter, may lose about 5 percent of the farmland used for the
crop by 2020 as malls and industrial parks spread, according to
the government, which has drawn up a plan to halt the losses.  The agricultural ministry aims to keep the national rice-
growing area at 3.8 million hectares in 2020 in an attempt to
limit the invasion of non-agricultural development, according to
a statement on the ministry’s website. At present, there are
more than 4 million hectares of rice fields.  Vietnam’s forecast underscores the challenge Asian nations
face in preserving farms and maintaining food security even as
they promote economic growth, spawning larger cities, bigger
factories and more golf courses. China may struggle to meet its
grain needs as farms shrink, the agriculture ministry has said.  “We need to keep land for rice production in order to
ensure national food security and our annual export targets,”
Nguyen Tri Ngoc, head of the cultivation department at the
agricultural ministry, said by phone today. “We need to work
out how to limit cities, provinces from turning paddy fields
into golf courses, hotels and malls.”  Rice shipments from Vietnam reached a record 6 million
metric tons in 2009, according to government figures. The
previous year, Vietnam joined other producers in curbing exports
amid a shortage, contributing to record prices and helping
trigger concern that there was a global food crisis.  Rough-rice futures in Chicago traded today at $12.83 per
100 pounds, gaining for a fourth straight day. The most-active
contract peaked at $25.07 per 100 pounds in April 2008.  ‘Poses a Threat’  Rapid urbanization in China, the world’s most populous
nation and Vietnam’s northern neighbor, led cereal production to
fall more than 20 percent between 1997 and 2003, according to
the Australian Bureau of Agricultural and Resource Economics.
China’s Premier  Wen Jiabao  has said that declining grain output
“poses a threat” to national food security.  Vietnamese Prime Minister  Nguyen Tan Dung  ordered
provincial authorities not allow new golf courses to take over
rice fields or other farmland, according to an Oct. 6 statement.
The country has about 60 courses in operation or being built.  Vietnam’s economic growth has exceeded 7 percent during the
past decade, pushing per-capita income for its 87 million people
past the $1,000 mark. The government is targeting a figure of as
much as $3,000 by 2020.  The nation’s rice shipments totaled 5.6 million tons in the
January-to-September period, 12.3 percent more than a year
earlier, according to the General Statistics Office in Hanoi.
Exports may reach 7.2 million tons this year, the Thoi Bao Kinh
Te Vietnam newspaper said on Sept. 23, citing the Vietnam Food
Association. Only Thailand ships more rice to the global market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen  in Hanoi at 
 Uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  