-- SABMiller Uses Success With `Holy Water' to Target Ethiopia's Beer Market
-- B y   N i c k y   S m i t h   a n d   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2010-10-08T15:10:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/sabmiller-uses-holy-water-to-target-entry-into-ethiopia-s-beer-market.html
SABMiller Plc , the world’s second-
largest brewer by volume, is using its success with Ethiopian
“holy water” to encourage the country’s government to sell it
state-owned breweries.  SABMiller has invested $20 million since last year buying
 Ambo , which bottles a strong-tasting, naturally sparkling water
from a valley of the same name about 130 kilometers (81 miles)
west of the capital, Addis Ababa. The water, named after the
town, is sold locally as Ambo Tabel, which means holy water in
Amharic, and is touted as a historical cure for ailments from
diabetes to obesity, according to London-based  SABMiller .  “We thought it would be a great business and great
opportunity to enter Ethiopia,”  Mark Bowman , the managing
director of SABMiller’s  African  operations, said. “This water
brand is probably the most powerful brand in Ethiopia, it’s as
close to buying a holy water as one can get.”  Ethiopia’s Meta Abo, Bedele and Harar breweries, which the
government said today are up for sale, hold a combined 37
percent market share, according to London-based  Plato Logic
Ltd. , which estimates that Ethiopians drink about 3.8 liters of
beer (1 gallon) on average each year compared with 10 liters in
the rest of the continent.  The government is offering auction documents for a joint-
venture partner to run Meta Abo while the sale of Harar and
Bedele will take place before the fiscal year ends in July,
Wondafrash Assefa, a spokesman for the government’s
Privatization Agency, said from Addis Ababa today.  Other Bidders  Habesha Breweries Share Co., a newly formed company, plans
to bid for Meta Abo, Eskinder Desta, a spokesman for Habesha,
said. Meta Abo may fetch as much as $55 million, Harar may be
worth up to $30 million and Bedele around $20 million, he said.  Ambo, of which SABMiller owns 68 percent, produces 35
million liters a year, accounting for 85 percent of Ethiopia’s
mineral water market, SABMiller said. The brewer paid $21
million for the stake, the Addis Ababa-based Reporter said.
SABMiller spokesman  Jonathan Oates  didn’t give details on the 
transaction in an e-mailed response to questions yesterday.  SABMiller has improved technology and marketing and cut
workers to 300 from 700 since buying what was a “defunct”
business, Bowman said in an interview in Johannesburg.  Can’t Be Ignored  This may improve chances for the 115-year-old brewer of
Miller Genuine Draft and Castle Lager in bidding for state-
brewing assets in a country that posted economic growth last
year of 8.7 percent, he said.  “You can’t ignore 80 million people,” Bowman said.
“We’ve had a look over time at beer interests in Ethiopia that
haven’t been available to us and we came across Ambo.”  The town of Ambo, surrounded largely by bare hillsides, has
about 50,000 residents.  Emperor Haile Selassie  used to bath in
the hot springs that still fill an outdoor pool popular with
tourists. About 63 percent of Ethiopians are Christians, more
than two-thirds of which are Orthodox Christians and the balance
from other denominations, according to government  statistics .
About a third of the country’s population are Muslim.  A plastic bottle production line is being commissioned for
Ambo to grow volumes and cut packaging and transport costs,
Bowman said. It is also introducing Ambo Light, a “more lightly
sparkling version,” at the end of the month.  ‘Double-Digit Growth’  The business may post “double-digit” growth over the next
two to three years, he said.  SABMiller’s partner in 18 African countries, Castel Groupe,
controls 62 percent of Ethiopia’s beer market with its Dashen
and Kombolcha operations, Plato Logic said. A seventh brewery is
planned by Habesha, it said. Beer drinking in Ethiopia will grow
15 percent in five years as disposable income increases, Addis
Ababa-based Access Capital said in a May 28 note.  SABMiller  bought three water  businesses in Africa last
year, including Voltic in Ghana and Nigeria, Rwenzori in Uganda,
and Ambo. Africa’s water market is growing 18 percent a year and
has accounts for 4 percent of the company’s African sales.  Volumes in SABMiller’s Africa region, which accounts for 10
percent of sales, grew 7 percent in the first quarter of the
2011 fiscal year, which Bowman said he expects to maintain for
the rest of the year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nicky Smith  in Johannesburg at 
 nsmith38@bloomberg.net ;
 William Davison   in Addis Ababa via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net ;
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 