-- Samsung Asset Management Likes China Consumer Stocks as Spending to Boom
-- B y   J u n g m i n   H o n g
-- 2010-10-08T04:12:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/samsung-asset-management-likes-china-consumer-stocks-as-spending-to-boom.html
Samsung Asset Management Co. , a unit
of South Korea’s biggest brokerage, likes consumer stocks in
China because consumption is poised to explode as disposable
income rises and shopping patterns change.  “The consumer sector will be the winner in the Chinese
stock market,”  T.J. Um , who oversees $15 billion as Samsung
Asset’s chief investment officer of global investment, said in
an interview at his office in Seoul yesterday. “Domestic
consumption will be the main factor to boost economic growth.”  UBS AG predicted last month that China’s stocks will enter
a “bull rally” in the next three to six months as the government
drafts details of the next five-year economic plan. Haitong
Securities Co. in August said investors should buy Chinese
stocks on “near-term pull-backs.”  China’s benchmark  CSI 300 Index  of so-called A shares,
dropped 15 percent this year while the Hang Seng China
Enterprises  Index  of H shares rose 0.4 percent. Samsung Asset
prefers A shares to H shares because of valuations.  “Downside risk is more limited than any other emerging
market,” said Um, who likes consumer companies. “Valuation-
wise, A shares are relatively low to their average.”  The best-performing industries in the China index this year
were health care and information technology. The worst sector
was financial companies.  China’s economy will grow 9.6 percent next year, topping 
the 1.5 percent projected for the euro region, the International
Monetary Fund forecasts.  Policy Moves  Government policies focused on domestic consumption and a
new generation more inclined to shop will boost spending,
according to Um. “Historically, when a nation’s gross domestic
product per capita reaches the $3,000 mark, there is an
explosion in consumption,” said Um. “China reached that
mark.”  Retail and catering sales in China jumped 18.7 percent
during the Oct. 1 to Oct. 7 holidays from a year earlier, the
official Xinhua News agency said today.  Um also likes Indian stocks, as the economy is insulated
from the rest of the world -- particularly companies related to
domestic consumption.  He expects emerging markets will benefit most from
developed country central bank moves to stimulate their economy
known as quantitative easing.  “If the global economy recovers due to quantitative easing,
then people’s risk appetite will rise,” said Um. “Then, the
risk appetite will go for more investment in equities. That will
lead to more investment in the emerging markets.”  Bond View  In fixed income, Samsung Asset likes local-currency
government and quasi-sovereign bonds and higher-rated corporate
debt in emerging markets. “Currency appreciation and better
liquidity will help investment in the notes,” said Um.  He favors Brazil and Korea because of higher yields.  Brazil’s central bank policy makers increased the  benchmark
interest rate  to 10.75 percent from a record low 8.75 percent
this year. The real has gained 38 percent since the end of 2008,
the best performer among seven Latin American currencies.  Korea’s economy expanded 7.6 percent in the first half, the
fastest pace in a decade. The Bank of Korea left the benchmark
interest rate at 2.25 percent in August and September, after
raising it 0.25 percentage point in July.  Samsung Asset Management is the nation’s biggest brokerage
by cash deposited in accounts. The global investment division
has about 60 percent of assets in fixed income, 30 percent in
stocks and less than 10 percent in alternative assets including
hedge funds, private equity and real estate, according to Um.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jungmin Hong  in Seoul at 
 jhong47@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at   wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  