-- Sanofi, Genzyme Spar Over Accounts of Chiefs’ Meeting
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l ,   A l e x   N u s s b a u m   a n d   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2010-10-08T20:15:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/sanofi-genzyme-spar-over-accounts-of-chief-executives-sept-20-meeting.html
Sanofi-Aventis SA ’s three-month
effort to acquire Genzyme Corp. took a more contentious turn as
the companies’ chief executive officers offered conflicting
accounts of their face-to-face meeting last month.  Sanofi’s  Chris Viehbacher  indicated the French company was
willing to pay in a range of $69 to $80 a share to buy Genzyme
at a Sept. 20 meeting with the U.S. company’s chief,  Henri Termeer , Genzyme said in a regulatory filing yesterday. Sanofi
today denied making such a proposal.  “We offered no price range and Genzyme continued to refuse
to engage with us on valuation,”  Jean-Marc Podvin , a spokesman
for Paris-based Sanofi, said by telephone today. “We strongly
disagree with Genzyme’s characterization of the Sept. 20 meeting
between our CEOs.”  Genzyme plans to hold a meeting with its investors after
reporting  earnings on Oct. 20  to “provide shareholders with our
perspective on the true value of the company,” said  Bo Piela , a
Genzyme spokesman, in a phone interview. The date of the meeting
will be disclosed next week, he said.  Since Sanofi made its bid public on Aug. 29, Genzyme has
closed each day higher than $69, indicating investors are
betting the offer will be raised. Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
Genzyme’s assertion that Sanofi is willing to pay as much as $80
may add to that optimism.  Sanofi’s existing bid of $18.5 billion, or $69 a share, is
“inadequate and opportunistic,” Genzyme said yesterday, urging
shareholders to reject the hostile tender offer.  ‘Hearten Shareholders’  “The mere mention of $80 should be enough to hearten
Genzyme shareholders,” said  Les Funtleyder , a Miller Tabak &
Co. analyst in New York, in a telephone interview yesterday.  When the two CEOs met, Viehbacher said the price range he
was proposing was “manageable but that, based on his current
understanding, he could not get to $80 a share,” according to
Genzyme’s filing. Termeer declined to agree to the range,
Genzyme said.  Genzyme, the largest maker of medicines for rare genetic
disorders, rose 39 cents to $72.75 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading. The stock had  dropped  as
much as 43 percent from a 2008 high of $83.25 after
contamination at a Boston plant caused drug shortages that
eroded sales. Sanofi fell 9 cents to 48.96 euros in Paris
trading.  Genzyme’s  board  cleared its advisers to contact third
parties to “evaluate alternatives for the company and its
assets,” the filing said. The company hasn’t yet reached out to
potential suitors, spokesman  Piela  said in a telephone interview
yesterday. Piela declined to say whether Genzyme might begin an
auction to sell itself.  ‘Consummated’  During the Sept. 20 meeting, Viehbacher asked Termeer to
“provide a price range at which a deal could be consummated,
and proposed that the parties agree to a price range of from $69
per share to $80 per share,” the filing said.  Termeer “reiterated the company board’s unanimous view
that $69 per share was an inappropriate price at which to
commence negotiations,” according to the filing.  Podvin, the Sanofi spokesman, said, “At that meeting we
made a variety of efforts to move the process forward, including
discussing the merits of our $69-per-share offer and trying to
understand if media reports about Genzyme’s price expectations
were accurate,” he said.  Viehbacher said Oct. 4 he would be willing to raise his
offer if Genzyme provided details to justify a boost. Termeer
asked for a higher bid when the two men met Sept. 20, though he
didn’t specify a price, Viehbacher said in interview with
Bloomberg Television.  ‘Compelling Offer’  “I’m not going to bid against myself,” Viehbacher said
Oct. 4. “We’ve put a compelling offer on the table. I’m not
prepared to increase the price unless someone really adds
something concrete in terms of information.” Sanofi’s tender
offer expires Dec. 10.  Termeer said in an Aug. 31 interview that he was open to
selling the biotechnology company at a “fair value,” higher
than Sanofi’s offer.  “Every company is for sale at some price,” Termeer said
that day. “The company is not for sale at $69 and we made that
clear.”  Genzyme said it will introduce three medicines by the end
of 2013 that aren’t valued by Sanofi’s offer, according to
yesterday’s filing. The company will seek an added approval of
its blood-cancer drug Campath as a remedy for multiple
sclerosis. Genzyme also anticipates clearance of mipomersen to
treat high cholesterol and the pill eliglustat for Gaucher
disease.  Luring Bidders  The new drugs are likely to help Genzyme lure at least one
bidder to rival Sanofi and push the final sale price to as much
as $78 a share, said  Michael Yee , an RBC Capital Markets analyst
based in San Francisco. Combined, the treatments may reap annual
revenue of more than $1.5 billion, Yee said.  “What happens here is the bid goes higher and Genzyme is
likely to extract more value,” Yee said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “During my conversations with investors,
that high-to-mid-70s range is where things start to get
compelling.”  Large drugmakers led by  Pfizer Inc.  of New York and New
Brunswick, New Jersey-based  Johnson & Johnson  may emerge as a
rival bidders for Genzyme, Yee said.  J&J spokesman  Jeffrey Leebaw  declined to comment in an e-
mail yesterday. Pfizer spokesman  Ray Kerins  didn’t immediately
return a call for comment after regular business hours.  The deal would be the biggest hostile takeover in the drug
industry since the $64 billion transaction that created Sanofi-
Aventis in 2004, according to Bloomberg data. Sanofi has
announced 35 acquisitions in the past five years, with an
average size of $1.6 billion and an average premium of 15
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Typically the first bid is not the best and final bid,”
 Phil Nadeau , an analyst with Cowen & Co. in New York, said in an
Oct. 5 telephone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Meg Tirrell  in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Nussbaum  in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net ;
 Albertina Torsoli  in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  