-- Sanofi to Eliminate 25 Percent of U.S. Pharmaceutical Workforce
-- B y   T o m   R a n d a l l
-- 2010-10-08T16:05:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/sanofi-to-cut-1-700-u-s-pharmaceutical-jobs-as-it-seeks-genzyme-takeover.html
Sanofi Aventis  SA, the French company
attempting a hostile takeover of Genzyme Corp., will cut 1,700
U.S. pharmaceutical jobs, or 25 percent of its American drug
operations, to prepare for acquisitions and patent expirations.  The job cuts are part of a 2 billion euro ($2.8 billion)
cost-reduction plan announced in July 2009, said  Jack Cox , a
spokesman for Paris-based Sanofi, in a telephone interview
today. About 1,400 sales positions will be cut, as well as 300
jobs at company offices in Bridgewater, New Jersey, Cox said.  Products  accounting for a quarter of Sanofi’s annual
revenue will lose patent protection by 2013. The company is
narrowing its business to three areas -- diabetes, atrial
fibrillation, and cancer -- and is seeking partnerships and
acquisitions to replace lost revenue. The drugmaker on Oct. 4
announced a tender offer of $69-a-share, or $18.5 billion, for
Genzyme, the maker of medicine for rare genetic disorders.  “This is beyond just the patent losses,” Cox said in a
telephone interview. “That’s a large driver, but it’s also
restructuring the overall organization to prepare for a
different future for this company.”  Sanofi fell 8.5 cents, or 0.2 percent to 48.96 euros in
Paris trading today, after declining 11 percent this year.  The company has about 13,000 employees in the U.S.,
including 6,900 in its pharmaceutical operations unit, where the
cuts were made today. Additional reductions won’t be necessary
through 2013, “barring unforeseen events,” Cox said.  ‘What We Expected’  “It’s what we expected the company to do,” said  Jeffrey Holford  of Jeffries International Ltd. in London, who has a buy
rating on the stock. “It’s reassuring.”  By 2013, Sanofi faces competition from cheaper generic
copies for more than six top-selling products, including Lovenox
and Plavix to prevent blood clots and Eloxatin for colon cancer.
Those three drugs alone accounted for more than $9.2 billion in
sales last year.  “If you’re going to lose that many new drugs, then you have
to lose people,” said Gbola Amusa, an analyst with UBS in
London, who has a neutral rating on the stock. Amusa said he
doesn’t consider the layoffs related to the battle to acquire
Genzyme.  Sanofi announced its tender offer for Genzyme after the
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based biotechnology company spurned its
bid as too low and refused to negotiate. Genzyme urged
 shareholders  to reject the offer yesterday, in a regulatory
filing. Sanofi’s offer expires Dec. 10.  Biggest Takeover  The Genzyme deal would be the biggest hostile takeover in
the drug industry since the $64 billion transaction that created
 Sanofi-Aventis  in 2004, according to Bloomberg data. Sanofi has
announced 35 acquisitions in the past five years, with an
average size of $1.6 billion and an average premium of 15
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Any costs related to today’s announcement will be reported
at the end of this year, Cox said. The company hasn’t yet
determined those costs, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Randall  in New York at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net ; 