-- Senator Reed Says Jones Exit Won't Harm NSC Ties to Defense Department
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2010-10-08T17:28:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/senator-reed-says-exit-of-general-jones-won-t-harm-nsc-ties-to-pentagon.html
Senator  Jack Reed  praised the
selection of  Tom Donilon  as U.S. national security adviser and
said his lack of military experience wouldn’t harm ties with
the Pentagon.  Donilon, 55, is replacing retired General  James Jones , a
former supreme allied commander in Europe. He had served as
Jones’s deputy on the National Security Council.  “Tom Donilon is one of the most thoughtful and capable
strategic thinkers that I know,” said Reed of Rhode Island, a
prominent Democrat on the Armed Services Committee and a former
U.S. Army captain, during an interview today on Bloomberg
Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt .”  Donilon will take up the post as the U.S. pursues an
expanded war campaign in Afghanistan, tries to ease tensions
with its ally Pakistan, and deals with other priorities,
including a possible leadership change in North Korea.  Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  told Jones that Donilon
would be a “disaster” as national security adviser because he
didn’t understand the military and didn’t treat its leaders
with enough respect, according to  Bob Woodward ’s book “Obama’s
Wars.” The book, which focuses on a policy debate last year,
reports that Jones told Donilon he had “no credibility with
the military” because he had never traveled to Iraq or
Afghanistan.  In March, Donilon accompanied Obama to Afghanistan for
meetings with the Afghan leadership.  Gates on Donilon  Gates told reporters today he has “had a very productive
and very good working relationship with Tom Donilon -- contrary
to what you may have read -- and I look forward to continuing
to work with him.”  Reed, a graduate of the U.S. Military Academy at West
Point, said Donilon has “tremendous respect for the
military.”  Even so, Reed said it would be beneficial to have a top
aide in the White House “who has led soldiers in combat.”
Jones, 66, is a retired Marine Corps general who served as NATO
commander and Marine Corps commandant.  Neither Obama, nor Vice President  Joe Biden , nor any of
the highest-ranking White House advisers has served in the
military.  War, Withdrawal  The war in Afghanistan entered its 10th year yesterday
with the Taliban still vying to control the country that once
hosted al-Qaeda. Obama has said the U.S. will begin withdrawing
troops in July 2011. Republicans have encouraged the president
to be more flexible on the deadline.  Reed said he expects the White House to stick to its
timetable, adding that “the size, the pace, the types of
units” involved in the withdrawal will be determined by the
status of the military operations.  He said as part of the war effort, the U.S. needs to
increase pressure on Pakistan to cut ties with terrorist
groups.  “We want them to make a strategic decision that these
elements are threats to Pakistan as well as Afghanistan and
take effective action,” the senator said.  Last December, the Obama administration announced that it
would send 30,000 more U.S. troops to Afghanistan. The
administration is also seeking more Pakistani military
operations to prevent the Taliban and al-Qaeda from crossing
into Afghanistan.  Congress and military analysts are conflicted over whether
the strategy is working, citing an increase in tensions with
Pakistan.  Pakistan Faulted  A White House report sent to Congress this week accused
the Pakistani government and military of being unwilling to
take action against al-Qaeda and other terrorist groups,
asserting that troops have avoided confrontations with the
Taliban and refuse to open a border crossing used to supply
U.S. forces.  Reed also touched on policy toward China, a topic drawing
White House attention.  Reed, a sponsor of legislation pressing China to raise the
value of its currency, said he was unsure if the bill would
pass the U.S. Congress this year. Congress is expected to
return to Washington after the November elections for a lame
duck session.  Lawmakers have complained that China’s weak yuan gives its
producers an unfair advantage over American manufacturers. The
measure would let companies petition for higher duties on
imports from China to compensate for what lawmakers say is the
effect of an undervalued currency.  Reed said a debate about the legislation would send a
signal to China that Congress is willing to take aggressive
action.  “They’ve got to know there are consequences if the
Chinese continue to politely sort of nod, but do nothing,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lisa Lerer  in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Meszoly at   rmeszoly@bloomberg.net  