-- SG Hambros Tells Clients to Buy Stocks as Central Banks Prop Up Economy
-- B y   R o d n e y   J e f f e r s o n
-- 2010-10-08T12:21:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/sg-hambros-tells-clients-to-buy-stocks-as-central-banks-prop-up-economy.html
Investors should buy stocks as
actions by central banks around the world help prevent economies
from slipping back into a recession, according to  SG Hambros
Bank Ltd.   Andrew Popper , chief investment officer at the bank for the
wealthy, said he expects stock markets to post positive returns
for the rest of the year and the “odds” are for good
performance in 2011. He also recommends betting against the U.S.
dollar by holding the Australian, New Zealand and Canadian
currencies as well as those from emerging markets.  “Recently, we are perceiving a more positive outlook for
equities,” Popper said in an interview in Edinburgh. “It’s not
that we’re bullish, but we’re bringing back equity positions in
portfolios to what is considered a normal level.”  The MSCI World Index , a benchmark for developed markets,
rallied 9.1 percent in September, the biggest monthly gain since
April last year. Stocks, by that measure, are now set to show an
increase for 2010 as investors become more optimistic about the
prospects for company earnings while central banks keep interest
rates low and add money to the economy.  Economists don’t predict the Federal Reserve, European
Central Bank or Bank of England to start increasing the cost of
borrowing until at least the middle of next year. Popper said he
expects them also to add more money with bond purchases, a
process known as quantitative easing.  Good Mix  “In our view that’s a good mix of policies,” Popper, 66,
said at SG Hambros’s office in Scotland on Oct. 6. “Economic
growth is somewhat disappointing, but it’s better at this stage
to allow monetary policies to do their job than to fine tune
growth with fiscal policies, which are very blunt instruments.”  Government bonds have gone as high as they can and it’s
tougher to find value from corporate bonds, according to Popper.
He said investors should look at higher-yielding company credit
from emerging markets or developed markets where the rating on
the securities is lower.  Popper said in an Aug. 27 interview with Bloomberg
Television that he was “very cautious” about equities because
of “sluggish” economic growth. SG Hambros, part of French bank
Societe Generale SA, was “underweight” on stocks. It’s now
“neutral,” he said last week.  “We certainly see positive returns for equities for the
rest of the year,” said Popper, who is responsible for about 4
billion pounds ($6.3 billion) of assets “I don’t know if that
makes us bullish or not. The odds are more in favor of good
performance for equities in 2011.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rodney Jefferson  in Edinburgh at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 