-- Shanghai to Limit Home Purchases, Introduce Property Tax, Government Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-08T03:41:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/shanghai-to-limit-home-purchases-introduce-property-tax-government-says.html
Shanghai introduced new measures to
curb home price gains including restricting home purchases to
one per household, increasing the supply of residential land,
and using a property tax to cool the real estate market.  “The government will proactively get well prepared for the
introduction of the trial property tax,” the government said in
a statement on its website yesterday.  Property prices  in 70 major cities rose 9.3 percent in
August from a year earlier, prompting the government to extend a
crackdown on speculators and multiple home purchases. The latest
measures are “more significant than expected,” analysts at
Deutsche Bank AG wrote in a report dated yesterday.  “This in our view highlighted the strong determination of
the central government and local governments to cool down the
property market,” Deutsche Bank analysts led by  Tony Tsang 
wrote. “Some bullish market participants might have under-
estimated the strength and frequency of the government
tightening measures.”  An  index  tracking 34 Shanghai-listed property developers
rose 1.9 percent as of 11:03 a.m. local time, erasing losses
earlier.  Shimao Property Holdings Ltd.  fell 0.6 percent after
dropping as much as 2.5 percent, while  Evergrande Real Estate
Group Ltd.  lost 1 percent.  The government of China’s richest city also ordered banks
to stop extending mortgages to third-home buyers, in line with
national policy. The city’s government will further regulate
developers’ business operations and ensure market order, the
statement said.  ‘Robust’ Demand  China’s State Council, or the Cabinet, on Sept. 29 raised
the down payment to 30 percent for all first-home buyers to cool
the property market. The down payment level previously applied
only to homes larger than 90 square meters (969 square feet).  The government has since April raised the down payment and
interest rates on second-home mortgages and restricted the
number of new homes residents can buy in some cities.  “We believe short-term sentiment may be dampened,
nevertheless, the potential impact from these new rules should
not be overdone,” Citigroup Inc. analysts  Oscar Choi  and  Marco Sze  wrote in a report dated yesterday, referring to Shanghai’s
measures. “Underlying demand should remain robust given the
ample liquidity in the market, especially for cities like
Shanghai, which can take purchasing power from different
areas.”  Hangzhou, Shenzhen  Housing transactions in the southern city of Shenzhen
surged 84 percent in August from July and rose 23 percent in
Beijing, according to data compiled by Soufun.com, the nation’s
largest property website. Prices in Beijing gained 12.3 percent
from the previous month and rose almost 7 percent in Shenzhen,
according to Soufun.  The Chinese cities of Hangzhou and Chongqing may follow
Shanghai in tightening property market policies, the Citigroup
analysts said. Shenzhen on Oct. 1 limited local residents’ home
purchases to two and those from outside the city to one, seeking
to lower transaction volumes, according to a CCB International
Securities Ltd. report dated Oct. 4.  There’s an increased risk of the government issuing new
tightening measures such as the property tax and the “full”
enforcement of the land appreciation tax, Nomura Holdings Inc.
analysts  Alvin Wong  and  Sunny Tam  said in an Oct. 4 report that
rated China’s property stocks “cautious” in new coverage.  Average residential prices may fall 5 percent to 10 percent
by the end of next year, according to the brokerage.  Hong Kong will introduce rent-to-own subsidized housing
after a public outcry over surging home prices, the South China
Morning Post reported Sept. 16, citing an unidentified official.
The city’s housing prices rose 1.61 percent in the week ended
Sept. 26 from a week earlier to the highest level since December
1997, Centaline Property Agency Ltd. said Sept. 30.  -- Zheng Lifei ,  Zhang Dingmin . Editors:  Andreea Papuc ,
 Malcolm Scott .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560
or  lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  