-- Shanghai to Limit Home Purchases, Introduce Property Tax, Government Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-08T01:12:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/shanghai-to-rein-in-property-market-with-limits-on-family-home-purchases.html
Shanghai introduced new measures to
curb soaring home prices including restricting home purchases to
one per household, increasing the supply of residential land,
and using a property tax to cool the real estate market.  “The government will proactively get well prepared for the
introduction of the trial property tax,” the government said in
a statement on its website yesterday.  Property prices in 70 major cities rose 9.3 percent in
August from a year earlier, prompting the government to extend a
crackdown on speculators and multiple home purchases. The latest
measures are “more significant than expected,” analysts at
Deutsche Bank AG wrote in a report dated yesterday.  “This in our view highlighted the strong determination of
the central government and local governments to cool down the
property market,” Deutsche Bank analysts led by  Tony Tsang 
wrote. “Some bullish market participants might have under-
estimated the strength and frequency of the government
tightening measures.”  The government of China’s richest city also ordered banks
to stop extending mortgages to third-home buyers, in line with
national policy. The city’s government will further regulate
developers’ business operations and strengthen the management of
the market transaction order, the statement said.  China’s State Council, or the Cabinet, on Sept. 29 raised
the down payment to 30 percent for all first-home buyers to cool
the property market. The down payment level previously applied
only to homes larger than 90 square meters (969 square feet).  The government has since April raised the down payment and
interest rates on second-home mortgages and restricted the
number of new homes residents can buy in some cities.  -- Zheng Lifei . Editors:  Andreea Papuc ,  Malcolm Scott .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560
or  lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  