-- Shinhan Chairman Ra Said to Face Sanction by South Korea's Bank Regulator
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2010-10-08T03:09:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/shinhan-financial-chairman-ra-said-to-face-sanctions-by-korean-regulator.html
Shinhan Financial Group Co.  Chairman
 Ra Eung Chan  will be punished by South Korean regulators for
allegedly breaking the law by opening accounts at Shinhan’s bank
unit in other people’s names, an official at the agency said.  The Financial Supervisory Service yesterday informed
Shinhan Financial that it will impose a “heavy penalty” on Ra,
the official said, speaking on condition of anonymity. Sanctions
may include recommending Ra’s dismissal, the person said.  Shinhan, South Korea’s largest financial company, fell as
much as 3 percent today in Seoul trading on concern that recent
controversy surrounding senior executives may spark a  management
shakeup .  “The FSS’s plan amplifies uncertainty over the top
management at Shinhan,” said  Han Jeong Tae , an analyst at Hana
Daetoo Securities Co. in Seoul. “No investor welcomes such risk
and it’s still a question mark who will lead Shinhan if Ra
really leaves the company.”  Shares of  Shinhan Financial  lost 1.8 percent to 46,500 won
at 11:29 a.m. in Seoul compared with the 0.7 percent drop in 60-
member Korea Financial Industry Index.  A spokesman for Shinhan, who declined to be identified, had
no comment. A call to Ra’s office went unanswered. Yonhap news
earlier today reported that Ra will be penalized, citing
unidentified people.  On Sept. 2, the company’s banking unit asked South Korean
prosecutors to probe Shinhan Financial President  Shin Sang Hoon 
over alleged breach of duty and embezzlement. Four Shinhan
shareholders filed a lawsuit in September seeking the dismissal
of Shinhan Bank Chief Executive Officer  Lee Baek Soon .  Reputation ‘Undermined’  The regulator said Aug. 25 it had requested information
from prosecutors on whether Ra, 71, broke the law by opening an
account in another person’s name.  Ra has been Shinhan’s chairman since 2001. Before that, he
was chief executive officer of Shinhan Bank for a decade.  The “heavy penalty” involves three potential sanctions: a
recommendation for dismissal, suspension from duty, or a
disciplinary warning that would bar Ra from seeking another term
as chairman, the FSS official said. Ra’s current term at Shinhan
ends in March 2013.  Regulators will make a final decision on Ra’s penalty in
two to three weeks after getting a response from the executive,
the official said.  Moody’s Investors Service said Sept. 13 that the charges
have “meaningfully undermined the reputation of Shinhan Bank.”
Fitch Ratings on Sept. 20 downgraded its  ratings  outlook for the
lender to negative, reflecting “governance issues and the
potential financial and reputational impact of the series of
lawsuits” against Shinhan Financial.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Seonjin Cha  in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  