-- Shuvalov Says Russian Regional Asset Sales May Generate $10 Billion a Year
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2010-10-08T14:03:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/shuvalov-says-russian-regional-asset-sales-may-generate-10-billion-a-year.html
Russia may seek to double income from
privatization by selling regional state assets as the government
tries to close a budget deficit, First Deputy Prime Minister
 Igor Shuvalov  said.  The federal government may take in about $10 billion a year
over the next five years from asset sales, Finance Minister
 Alexei Kudrin  said on Sept. 15. Shuvalov said selling assets
belonging to major cities such as Moscow and St. Petersburg “on
a national scale” may generate the same annual income.  “There’s a huge number of interesting companies, from
infrastructure to the financial industry,” Shuvalov said in an
interview in Vladivostok today. “We will develop specific plans
with the regions on individual companies. Three hundred billion
rubles ($10 billion) should be the minimum target for them.”  State asset sales will cover 16 percent to 17 percent of
the budget deficit in the next three years, Economy Minister
 Elvira Nabiullina  said on Sept. 23. The government is seeking to
boost revenue to narrow the deficit, which may reach 5.3 percent
of gross domestic product this year. Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said on Oct. 5 that the government will meet its target of
eliminating the shortfall by 2015.  Russia won’t sell stakes in any major companies this year
except VTB Group, the country’s second-largest lender,
Nabiullina said on Oct. 6. Putin said a day earlier that the
government may become a minority shareholder or sell its entire
stake in some state assets, though “this would take time.”  Asset List  Shuvalov said the government will confirm the list of
federal companies in which it will sell stakes “in the next few
days.”  “A lot of infrastructure companies at the regional level
need capital and could attract investors because they could
return investments in the foreseeable future,” Shuvalov said.
“Any projects could return invested capital over 10-15 years.”  Privatization is a key part of the regional development
program the government is considering, Shuvalov said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ilya Arkhipov  in Vladivostok at  iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  