-- Singapore Begins Pushing Scientists From `Coconut Shell' for R&D Gains
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2010-10-08T16:28:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/singapore-begins-pushing-scientists-from-coconut-shell-for-r-d-gains.html
Singapore, which spent almost S$20
billion ($15 billion) in the past decade to become a scientific-
research hub, will tighten access to funds for biomedical
scientists in an effort to quicken returns on investments.  Singapore’s biomedical-research institutes will have to
compete for 30 percent of government funds through grant
applications that show their work is commercially viable, George
Radda, chairman of the Biomedical Research Council at the  Agency
for Science, Technology and Research , said yesterday. The
agency, which guarantees 100 percent funding at present, said
the change takes effect April 1 and will apply for at least 12
months.  The tighter access comes even as the city-state expands its
budget for research in biology, health and medicine. These areas
will receive S$3.7 billion in the next five years, a 12 percent
increase, as part of Singapore’s S$16.1 billion allowance for
research and development in the period, the agency known as
A*Star said.  The funding changes are designed to get scientists to
collaborate with drug and device makers to make discoveries that
contribute to human health and Singapore’s economy, Lee Eng Hin,
executive director of the  Biomedical Research Council , said in
an interview.  “There’s a frog that lives under a coconut shell, and
that’s it, that’s his whole world,” Lee said on Oct. 5,
referring to a Malay proverb. “What I want is for even the
basic scientists now to start to look outside a little bit, to
see who in their institute would be able to help them, or who in
another institute would be able to.”  Commercial Outcomes  It’s too early to tell what impact the changes will have on
scientists working in Singapore, said Martin Hibberd, associate
director of A*Star’s Genome Institute, who’s collaborating with
Roche Holding AG and  Novartis AG  on projects in the city-state.  “There will be a direction change, but I think in a way
that’s what the government was hoping to achieve,” Hibberd said
in a telephone interview today. “Any change leads to a little
bit of nervousness, and some people are more worried than
others, but this process will provide opportunities for those
who can take advantage.”  Prime Minister  Lee Hsien Loong ’s government said Oct. 1
that 70 percent of the total R&D funds from 2011 to 2015 will be
for projects with  economic outcomes , rising from 65 percent in
the previous period. It’s also setting up a S$1.35 billion grant
that researchers can draw on for projects based on “industry
alignment.”  ‘Screen Out Mediocrity’  The S$16.1 billion is about 20 percent more than the S$13.6
billion that the government pledged in the previous five-year
period. The city-state committed S$6 billion from 2001 to 2005.  Singapore is increasing funding for research as some
nations reduce their levels.  Vince Cable , the U.K. business secretary, said Sept. 8 he
planned to “ration research funding by excellence” and
“ screen out mediocrity ” when the government announces its
spending review this month. Scientists plan to protest against
funding cuts outside parliament in London tomorrow, according to
 Science is Vital , a group organizing the protest.  Compared with many countries in Europe, Singapore is “a
very, very favorable environment in which to continue to conduct
science,” said  Leszek Borysiewicz , vice-chancellor of the
University of Cambridge and the former chief executive officer
of the U.K.’s  Medical Research Council . He’s a member of
Singapore’s Biomedical Sciences International Advisory Council.  Roche, Novartis Centers  Roche Holding AG  said in January it set up a 100 million
Swiss franc ($103 million) medical research center in Singapore,
joining Eli Lilly & Co., GlaxoSmithKline Plc and Novartis AG
among companies with research operations there.  Starting next year, Singapore will offer companies a tax
deduction of 250 percent on the first S$300,000 of research and
development investments, and 150 percent on the remaining R&D
costs, Finance Minister  Tharman Shanmugaratnam  said in his
 budget  speech in February.  The aspirations of Asian nations including Singapore of
becoming centers of scientific innovation may be stymied by
“top-down” policies in which civil servants with no background
in science seek to quantify productivity and success in
research, Alice Huang, president of the American Association for
the Advancement of Science, and Chris Tan, the founding director
of Singapore’s Institute of Molecular and Cell Biology,  wrote  in
the journal Science last month.  “Many Asian bureaucrats are finding out that scientific
discovery is not readily quantifiable by returns on financial
investment within their years of service,” they wrote. “Such
disappointments can lead to reprioritization of government
support, interfering with and jeopardizing newly founded
laboratories and often destabilizing careers.”  Singapore doesn’t have the luxury of taking decades to see
returns from its investments in research and development,
A*Star’s Lee said.  “The U.S. has been doing research for umpteen years,” Lee
said. “We are very young, so we sort of have to jumpstart
things a little bit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simeon Bennett  in Singapore at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at   j.gale@bloomberg.net . 