-- Singh's `Minuscule Reforms' Underscored by Games Missteps
-- B y   M e h u l   S r i v a s t a v a
-- 2010-10-08T02:54:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/singh-s-miniscule-reforms-pace-underscored-by-new-delhi-games-missteps.html
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh , 78 and
silver-bearded, is known amongst his colleagues for his soft
voice and polite manner. Two weeks ago, though, as India faced
international humiliation over how unprepared it was to host the
Commonwealth Games in New Delhi, he lost his temper. “Just get
it done,” he snapped at the Minister for Sports after reports
at an emergency cabinet meeting that stadiums and athletes’
housing needed fixing, according to three people present.  With Singh breathing down their necks, the organizers of
the games made a final effort to fix things up, Bloomberg
BusinessWeek reports in its Oct. 11 issue. Cancellation or mass
withdrawal of the games was avoided, though India has sustained
damage to its reputation, with Moody’s Economy.com saying the
bad publicity may deter foreign  investors  and ImagIndia
Institute estimating that the fallout could cost $90 billion
over the next three years.  Singh’s failure to manage the $4.6 billion games has left
Indians questioning the Prime Minister -- 97 percent of
respondents in a Times of India poll say the government’s
handling of the games had tarnished India’s reputation. Just as
they did after the November 2008 terrorist siege in Mumbai,
Indians have seen the government’s failure to handle the
nation’s biggest sporting event efficiently and effectively as a
metaphor for how it handles the country.  Even as the economy has expanded at the world’s second-
fastest pace, Singh’s government has not delivered on its
promise to invest in reforms, infrastructure for its businesses,
or to control inflation or revolts in central India and Kashmir.  ‘Great Guy’  “The Prime Minister is a great guy, but inflation is out
of control, the games are a mess, India’s high rate of growth
has become independent of the government - the kind of reforms
we had always hoped for just never came through,” said Lord
 Meghnad Desai , a professor emeritus of the London School of
Economics, and a member of Britain’s House of Lords who says he
knows Singh well and admires him.  Manish Tiwari, spokesman at Singh’s Congress Party, and
Harish Khare in the Prime Minister’s office didn’t return calls
seeking comment.  Singh’s second term as Prime Minister and head of a
coalition built around the Congress Party started with great
expectations. In the 2009 election Congress and its partners had
managed to secure enough seats in Parliament to no longer need
Communist allies, who had been an obstructive force during
Singh’s first term.  When the Congress Party was re-elected, the stock market
soared -- the  Sensitive index  rose 17 percent in less than 60
seconds, buoyant on the hope that Singh, the economist who first
opened India to the west in 1991, would deliver on reforms.  Hopes Dashed  “There certainly was an expectation within the equity
markets -- and also economists -- that would happen,” said
 Robert Prior-Wandesforde , a Singapore-based economist at Credit
Suisse Group AG. “Since then, I certainly think that we’ve
lacked significant structural economic reform, things that would
make a significant difference to the trend rates of growth, such
as reforms in labor market, or progress in terms of
infrastructure as well.”  Prior-Wandesforde and Desai listed Singh’s promises to
reform labor markets and ease the difficulties manufacturers
encounter in acquiring land. Efforts to introduce banking reform
have failed, as have attempts to tamp down on double-digit food
inflation, leaving India’s poor to be buffeted by global
commodity markets. A guerilla war in India’s central, mineral-
rich states has gotten worse, claiming more lives in 2010 than
at any other point in the 33-year struggle. Over 100 people have
been killed in recent street protests in Kashmir.  ‘Minuscule Reforms’  “What we’ve seen since the elections are minuscule reforms
-- dropping petroleum subsidies, higher education reform at the
margin,” said  Razeen Sally , director of the Brussels-based
 European Center for International Political Economy . “The
bigger things that are needed are things that Singh hasn’t even
tried for. And you don’t know if you can push something through
unless you really try.”  Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  said in February that
Singh’s government lacks the legislative strength to push
through on major reforms such as opening up the retail market,
which  has stymied Carrefour SA and Wal-Mart Stores Inc.’s
expansion in India.  “Certain changes have to be brought though legislative
measures,” Mukherjee said. “We are lacking in those areas
where legislative support is needed.”  Unlike in China’s single-party state, progress is only
possible in the world’s biggest democracy when the government
must act, as in the crisis of 1991, or when the government is
not involved at all, said Prior-Wandesforde.  Dynastic Dynamics  Singh also needs to contend with the dynastic dynamics of
the Congress Party and the inherent tension between his reform-
minded supporters and the more populist wing of the party.  Rahul Gandhi , the 40 year old son of the assassinated prime
minister  Rajiv Gandhi , is widely seen as being groomed by his
mother  Sonia  to take over as prime minister in a Congress
government -- Rahul is grandson of  Indira Gandhi , who was prime
minister and assassinated too. Both mother and son have shown a
tendency for expensive social programs, including food subsidies,
rural work programs and farm loan waivers.  “The most significant change has come about in the social
sphere and one wonders how much that has to do with Singh,”
said Prior-Wandesforde, the Credit Suisse economist. “The 2009
election was a vote in favor of social reform, rather than a
vote for massive economic reform.”  Crony Capitalism  Ruchir Sharma , head of emerging markets for Morgan Stanley
Investment Management, warned in a report on September 30 that
India’s growth rates -- which have averaged 8.5 percent in the
past five years -- are in no way guaranteed, and that unless
Singh’s government focuses on ending crony capitalism,
widespread corruption and the insurrection in central India, the
country could go the way of the East Asian tigers of the 1990s,
which couldn’t sustain high growth rates over the long haul.  For now India is holding its breath as the games go on,
hoping to avoid disaster in the form of a collapsed stadium or a
terrorist attack. The city’s disappointment is palpable -- until
the government banned bulk text messages, residents shared dark
jokes with each other via cellphones while stuck in the unending
traffic created by the chaos of the games.  “It’s just such a shame,” said Radha Deshmukh, who turned
18 the same day the Prime Minister turned 78. “I wanted to sing
the national anthem when our boxers won a gold medal.”  Deshmukh will instead watch the games on television in
Dubai -- her family, like many Delhites, decided to flee India
until the athletes leave.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mehul Srivastava  in New Delhi at 
 msrivastava6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bret Okeson at 
 bokeson@bloomberg.net  