-- Soros Says Currency War Concerns `Not Far Off' Mark as G-7 Officials Meet
-- B y   J o h n   F r a h e r   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2010-10-08T10:36:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/soros-says-currency-war-concerns-not-far-off-mark-as-g-7-officials-meet.html
Billionaire investor  George Soros 
said he shared concerns about a “currency war” and China must
do more to accept its responsibilities in the global monetary
system.  “I share the growing concern about the misalignment of
currencies,” Soros wrote in an article for the Financial Times.
“Brazil’s finance minister speaks of a latent currency war, and
he is not far off the mark. It is in the currency markets where
different economic policies and different economic and political
systems interact and clash.”  China this week stiffened its opposition to a rapid
appreciation of the yuan, with Premier  Wen Jiabao  saying his
country will stick to its policy of gradually increasing the
currency’s flexibility and lashed out at European Union leaders
for teaming with the U.S. to pressure his government.  China’s case may be bolstered by the recent willingness of
Japan, Brazil, Switzerland and other nations to temper the
strength of their currencies through intervention.  The world’s second-largest economy remains the target of
the greatest criticism. Even as it boasts the fastest-growing
major economy, it has limited the yuan’s appreciation to about 2
percent versus the dollar since pledging in June to make it more
flexible.  “Whether it realizes it or not, China has emerged as a
leader of the world,” said Soros. “If it fails to live up to
the responsibilities of leadership, the global currency system
is liable to break down and take the global economy with it.”  U.S. Response  U.S. impatience with China boiled over on Sept. 29 when the
House of Representatives passed a measure that would let
American companies seek import duties to prevent Chinese
manufacturers from using an artificially weak yuan as a
competitive tool. The measure won’t go to the Senate until after
U.S. congressional elections in November.  Even so, a U.S. solo run may be counterproductive, Soros
said. “Currency adjustments must be part of an internationally
coordinated plan to reduce global imbalances.”  International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  yesterday dismissed chances of a return to the
currency accords of the 1980s. International exchange-rate
diplomacy shifts into high gear at tomorrow’s Group of Seven
meeting in Washington  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Fraher  in London at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net 
 Gabi Thesing  in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  