-- Soros, Spitzer Slam Wall Street; John Lennon’s Torment: Movies
-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 2010-10-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/soros-spitzer-slam-wall-street-john-lennon-s-torment-movies.html
Glenn Hubbard , once  George W. Bush ’s
top economic adviser, squirms in his seat when documentary
director  Charles Ferguson  questions him about his close ties
with financial firms in “ Inside Job .”  Hubbard, now the head of  Columbia Business School , evades
an answer, tells Ferguson the interview is almost over and then
challenges him to “give it your best shot.”  Ferguson does just that in his brilliant film about the
causes of the financial crisis. “Inside Job” gives a clear,
concise explanation of how deregulation, speculation, conflicts
of interest and heavy lobbying by the financial industry led to
the worst economic meltdown since the Great Depression.  Ferguson received an Oscar nomination for “No End in
Sight,” his step-by-step documentary on how the U.S. screwed up
in Iraq after overthrowing  Saddam Hussein . He uses the same
formula in “Inside Job,” mixing incisive interviews with
historical background, informative charts, helpful explanations
of complicated financial terms and a brisk narration by  Matt Damon .  If you’re still confused by the Great Recession, this is
the best primer so far on what happened and why.  While none of the top corporate executives or government
officials implicated in the crisis agreed to talk with Ferguson,
he did interview an impressive array of economists, politicians
and journalists who castigate Wall Street for its role in the
financial collapse.  Soros, Spitzer  They include former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker ,
billionaire investor  George Soros  and former New York Governor
 Eliot Spitzer , nicknamed the “Sheriff of Wall Street” for his
crackdown on financial fraud when he was the state’s attorney
general before his political career was derailed by a sex
scandal.  Another talking head is Raghuram Rajan, a University of
Chicago economist who in 2005 warned that risky financial
practices could lead to a “catastrophic meltdown.”  He was right, of course, and Ferguson isn’t so sure it
won’t happen again. He points out that many of President  Barack Obama ’s economic advisers have close ties to Wall Street, that
huge bonuses are still being handed out and that not a single
one of the financial bigwigs whose reckless behavior ruined the
economy has been prosecuted.  The watered-down financial reform bill recently passed by
Congress is a tiny step in the right direction. As Ferguson
points out, giant steps are needed.  “Inside Job,” from Sony Pictures Classics, is playing in
New York and Oct. 15 in Los Angeles, Chicago and Boston. Rating:
***1/2  ‘Nowhere Boy’  To commemorate what would have been  John Lennon ’s 70th
birthday tomorrow,  Yoko Ono  will light the  Imagine Peace Tower 
in Iceland. His fans can mark the occasion by seeing “ Nowhere
Boy ,” a tender film about Lennon’s tormented teenage years in
Liverpool.  Though he’s too handsome for the role, Aaron Johnson
(“Kick-Ass”) gives a fine performance as a young man torn
between Mimi ( Kristin Scott Thomas ), the schoolmarmish aunt who
raised him, and his free-spirited mother Julia (Anne-Marie
Duff), who gave him up after his seafaring father disappeared.
(She was hit by a car and killed when John was 17.)  Despite his painful family situation -- or, possibly
because of it -- Lennon developed a creative streak that led him
to art school (he was bored by the routine) and to the music of
 Elvis Presley ,  Chuck Berry  and Screamin’ Jay Hawkins.  First Guitar  After his aunt bought him his first guitar, Lennon’s career
path was set. Lennon met  Paul McCartney  at a church festival,
McCartney introduced him to  George Harrison  and the band that
would become the Beatles was born. McCartney and Harrison were
better guitar players, but from the very start Lennon was their
dynamic, wisecracking leader.  In her directing debut, multimedia artist  Sam Taylor-Wood 
shows Lennon’s many, often contradictory, sides. He could be
selfish and cruel -- at a party, he makes a hurtful remark about
McCartney’s dead mother -- but he also could be generous and
loyal.  While it’s a formulaic film, “Nowhere Boy” doesn’t resort
to the hagiography that mars so many biopics of famous people.
No doubt that would please Lennon, who was gunned down 30 years
ago in front of his New York City apartment building. He was
always skeptical of heroes.  “Nowhere Boy,” from the Weinstein Co., is playing in New
York and Los Angeles. Rating: ***  ‘Stone’  Robert De Niro ’s tailspin continues with “ Stone ,” a
turgid melodrama in which he plays a parole office manipulated
by a prisoner ( Edward Norton ) seeking early release from prison.  The film, directed by John Curran (“ We Don’t Live Here
Anymore ”) and written by Angus MacLachlan (“Junebug”), wants
to be more than a crime thriller. There’s lots of talk about
religion, philosophy and morality, but the metaphysical musings
can’t hide the fact that it’s basically a stock story about two
damaged men desperate to change their lives.  De Niro’s Jack Mabry, on the eve of retirement, is stuck in
a loveless marriage to a pious woman ( Frances Conroy ) who almost
left him years ago. Norton’s Gerard Creeson, nicknamed Stone, is
an arsonist whose sexy, flirtatious wife ( Milla Jovovich ) uses
her body to persuade Mabry to give her husband a get-out-of-jail
card.  De Niro, mired in mediocre films for much of the past
decade, plays Mabry as a miserable, deadpan bureaucrat drowning
his sorrow in booze. Norton’s quirky character has a cornrow
hairdo, a gravelly voice and a penchant for religious pamphlets
that call on him to become “God’s tuning fork.”  Jovovich, a supermodel who played an orange-haired alien in
“ The Fifth Element ,” steals the spotlight as a hedonistic
femme fatale with her own peculiar notion of justice.  “Stone,” from Overture Films, is playing in New York and
Los Angeles. Rating: *1/2  ( Rick Warner  is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 