-- South African Regulator Is Less Opposed to Corn-Pool Plans, Minister Says
-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s   a n d   R o n   D e r b y
-- 2010-10-08T14:16:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/south-african-compeitition-regulator-eases-its-opposition-to-corn-pool.html
South Africa’s  Competition
Commission , an antitrust body, is now less opposed to
collaboration by commercial farmers to export surplus corn than
before, the country’s Agriculture Minister said.  “The Competition Commission has now moved away from their
rigid attitude,” Agriculture Minister  Tina Joemat-Pettersson 
told delegates at commercial farmers’ body Agri SA’s annual
congress in Johannesburg today. “They’ve come to the
realization that such a pool could happen.”  Good rains and increased use of genetically modified seed
in South Africa, the continent’s biggest corn producer, are
pushing the nation’s crop to an estimated 13.32 metric million
tons this season, the biggest in 28 years.  The resultant surplus, estimated by Grain SA at a record 4
million tons, may “destroy” the industry if it can’t be sold,
Joemat-Pettersson said in May. White corn fell to a four-year
low of 1,019 rand ($149) a ton in June on the South African
Futures Exchange in Johannesburg as traders anticipated a glut.  Grain SA, concerned that forming an export pool may violate
competition laws, earlier this year asked the Competition
Commission’s opinion on the matter and was told in June that it
would be anticompetitive. As of the end of August, South
Africa’s  corn stockpiles  had risen 14 percent from a year
earlier to 9.57 million tons.  Increased Chinese Imports  Grain SA, South Africa’s biggest farmers group, applied for
an exemption which is being considered, Oupa Bodibe, spokesman
for the commission, said in an e-mailed response to questions.
The commission declined to say whether its view on the proposed
export pool has changed.  South Africa’s government is seeking increased access for
corn exports to markets including Russia, China and the Middle
East, Joemat-Pettersson told delegates today. China, the world’s
second-largest corn consumer, will probably quintuple imports of
the grain in the next five years as demand increases for
livestock feed, the U.S. Grains Council said on Oct. 5.  South Africa should also reconsider a national biofuels
plan amid the corn surplus, Joemat-Pettersson said today. Such a
move wouldn’t thwart food security, she said.  A draft government biofuels incentive plan, released in
2007, has so far failed to attract investment into large
commercial biofuels plants.  Sasol Ltd. , South Africa’s largest
fuel supplier, Ethanol Africa Ltd. and National Biofuels Group
Ltd. have canceled or delayed projects.  South Africa could have created about 105,000 jobs over
five years if it had successfully built a biofuels industry,
 Neels Ferreira , Grain SA’s chairman told the conference today.  White corn for December delivery, the most active contract,
fell 1.7 percent to 1,211.60 rand in Johannesburg today. Meal
made from the grain is the country’s staple food. Yellow corn,
used to make animal feed in South Africa, fell 0.8 percent to
1,300 rand.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Carli Lourens  in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net ;
 Ron Derby  in Johannesburg at 
 rderby1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net  