-- U.S. Airlines Get Lithium Battery Warning After Crash
-- B y   J o h n   H u g h e s
-- 2010-10-08T22:28:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/u-s-airlines-get-lithium-battery-warning-after-crash-update1-.html
Airlines carrying lithium batteries
should take precautions with the cargo after a  United Parcel
Service Inc.  plane carrying a large quantity of the items caught
fire and crashed, the Federal Aviation Administration said.  Carriers should store bulk shipments of the batteries in
sections of a plane equipped with fire-suppression systems, the
FAA said today in a  safety alert.  Airlines should ask customers
to identify batteries on shipping forms and evaluate crew
training for fires, the FAA said.  A UPS cargo plane that crashed in Dubai on Sept. 3 “did
include large quantities of lithium batteries,” the alert said.
FAA officials “believe it prudent to advise operators of that
fact.”  The notice raises the possibility the lithium batteries
played a role in the on-board fire before the crash of a 747-400
cargo plane that killed both pilots. The investigation into the
accident hasn’t been completed.  Norman Black , a spokesman for Atlanta-based UPS, the
world’s largest package-delivery company, declined to comment on
the FAA statement that the plane carried lithium batteries.  Initial analysis of the plane’s on-board recorders showed a
fire warning followed by smoke in the cockpit, the United Arab
Emirates General Civil Aviation Authority said last month. The
crew reported smoke 28 minutes after takeoff from Dubai on a
flight to Cologne, Germany, the GCAA said.  Doha, Dubai  The crew returned to the airport rather than accept an
offer from Bahrain Air Traffic Control to land at Doha
International Airport in Qatar, about 240 miles from Dubai, and
then experienced cockpit-visibility and communication problems,
the GCAA has said.  Captain Doug Lampe of Louisville, Kentucky, and First
Officer Matthew Bell of Sanford, Florida, died in the crash, UPS
has said.  Lithium metal, or non-rechargeable, batteries “are highly
flammable and capable of ignition,” the FAA said in the alert.
Suppression measures used in many cargo compartments “is
ineffective” in controlling such fires, the FAA said.  FedEx Corp ., the world’s biggest cargo carrier, requires
customers to seek airline approval when shipping non-
rechargeable batteries, Sandra Munoz, a spokeswoman, said in an
e-mail. Severe fines should be imposed on shippers who don’t
follow federal rules or declare shipments, she said.  The FAA’s safety recommendations echo calls by safety
advocates for additional protections in the transportation of
the batteries that power mobile phones and laptop computers.  Batteries triggered fire, smoke or heat aboard aircraft 13
times from February 2001 to July 2007, the  National
Transportation Safety Board  said in 2008. A UPS plane was
destroyed in February 2006 in Philadelphia after a fire probably
began in containers storing electronic equipment, the NTSB
concluded in 2008.  While the board couldn’t determine the cause of the 2006
fire, the incident prompted scrutiny of lithium battery risks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Hughes  in Washington at 
 Jhughes5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at   lliebert@bloomberg.net  