-- U.S. Payroll Slump That's Probably Deeper Than Estimated Hinders Recovery
-- B y   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n
-- 2010-10-08T20:36:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/u-s-payroll-slump-that-s-probably-deeper-than-estimated-hinders-recovery.html
The worst U.S. employment slump since
the end of World War II was probably even deeper than currently
estimated, giving the economy a larger hurdle to overcome.  About 366,000 more jobs may be subtracted from the payroll
count for the 12 months through March when the figures are
officially updated in early 2011, the Labor Department reported
today in Washington. Following last year’s 902,000 adjustment,
the revision would cap the  biggest  back-to-back reduction since
at least 1979, the first year of available data.  “The hole we’re digging out of to make up for lost jobs is
probably even greater than we had thought,”  Michael Feroli ,
chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York, said
in an interview.  The revision may mean the worst recession since the 1930s
resulted in the loss of 8.73 million jobs, up from the 8.36
million currently on the books. The Labor Department’s report
today showed employment has grown by 613,000 so far this year
after employers cut payrolls by a larger-than-forecast 95,000
workers in September.  The category reflecting retailers, wholesalers,
transportation and utility companies showed the biggest
potential downward revision at 144,000. A 114,000 reduction at
manufacturers and a 91,000 drop at leisure and hospitality
industries rounded out the top three.  Tax Records  Once a year, the government revises its payroll figures
after combing through tax records from the unemployment
insurance program that covers practically all businesses. Those
records are only available after a lag, explaining why it takes
more than a year to make the tabulations.  The government’s initial monthly estimates are based on a
sample of about 140,000 businesses and government agencies
encompassing approximately 410,000 worksites.  Since not all of those employers respond to the
government’s survey, statisticians also include employment
projections based on a formula, known as the birth/death model,
to determine the influence from the formation and demise of
businesses.  The Labor Department estimates the number of companies that
may have folded using data collected over the previous five
years. By the same token, it plugs in an estimate for the
formation of new businesses to account for their hiring.  Inflection Points  Annual revisions tend to be largest around turning points
in the economy because by using the five previous years of data
as a benchmark, the government ends up assuming too many
businesses were created at the beginning of recessions and too
few started at the beginning of expansions. The Labor Department
last year said the model didn’t work as well as it usually does
and is studying improvements to refine it.  “We’ve been researching it for years, and we’re looking at
different ways to possibly improve it,” Chris Manning, the
national benchmark branch chief at the Bureau of Labor
Statistics, said today in an interview.  Last year’s miss was mainly concentrated in the first
quarter of 2009 when the world’s largest economy was in the
midst of the recession. This year, the estimated reductions were
spread out through the 12 months, Manning said.  It’s not yet clear how much of this year’s revision is a
result of a breakdown in the birth/death model, Manning said,
and he’ll have a better idea when the final first-quarter
figures on the quarterly census of unemployment and wages are
released, which should be in the next couple of months.  The Labor Department is considering ways to improve their
estimates, Manning said. One would be adjusting the birth/death
model more frequently, based on the quarterly census of
unemployment and wages, he said.  The projected revisions would put the government’s payroll
figures more in line with the ADP Employer Services report.
Figures from ADP, a provider of business outsourcing services,
are currently underestimating the government’s private payroll
count by 562,000 workers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  at 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  