-- U.A.E. Scraps BlackBerry Ban While RIM Says Security Unchanged
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   Z a h r a a   A l k h a l i s i
-- 2010-10-08T20:38:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/uae-says-it-won-t-suspend-blackberry-services-on-oct-11-wam-agency-says.html
Research In Motion Ltd.  averted a ban
on its BlackBerry smartphone in the United Arab Emirates after
the country’s phone regulator said the company’s messaging
services now comply with local regulations.  “All BlackBerry services in the U.A.E. will continue to
operate as normal,” the  Telecommunications Regulatory
Authority , which had threatened to ban the service over security
concerns, said in a  statement  on its website today. The
regulator didn’t give further details of how the company and
local wireless operators addressed the government’s concerns.  RIM said today it continues to follow the principles for
working with government officials it laid out in an Aug. 12
statement and wouldn’t comment further on confidential
regulatory matters. In that statement, RIM said it doesn’t do
“special deals for specific countries” and there have been no
changes to the security of its corporate e-mail system.  “Contrary to any rumors, the security architecture is the
same around the world and RIM truly has no ability to provide
its customers’ encryption keys,” RIM said in August.  RIM’s encryption technology has raised concerns in several
countries that BlackBerry may be used for terrorist attacks or
other illegal activity. The U.A.E. regulator’s decision, which
averts a ban planned for Oct. 11, comes after Saudi Arabia
canceled a planned shutdown of BlackBerry service and the Indian
government said it would push back a deadline to suspend
BlackBerry service as it works toward a solution.  Some Kind of Workaround?  “RIM has previously been clear that it would not change
the architecture of the BlackBerry services to placate
countries,” said Tony Cripps, an analyst with technology
research firm Ovum in London. “We can only hypothesize that
some kind of workaround has been agreed” to between the UAE and
local carriers to monitor messages sent with the BlackBerry “at
a point in the delivery process that is outside of RIM’s
control,” he said.  RIM rose $1.44, or 3 percent, to $49.36 at 4:30 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The stock has dropped
27 percent this year.  The U.A.E. regulator said it wants to acknowledge RIM’s
“positive engagement and collaboration.” The regulator didn’t
say whether the deal allows it to monitor messages sent by
BlackBerry users.  In a Sept. 24 interview, co-Chief Executive Officer  Jim Balsillie  said RIM can’t give governments access to corporate
customers’ e-mail systems because only those customers -- not
RIM -- hold the security codes for reading their employees’
BlackBerry messages.  “I’m not the keeper of that key, I don’t have that key,”
he said. “If you want them to break open their servers, you’ve
got to go to them.”  Indian Security Trial  Saudi Arabian authorities said Aug. 10 it wouldn’t impose a
BlackBerry ban, citing the “positive development” in meeting
the country’s monitoring needs. India’s government said Aug. 31
that it’s conducting a two-month test of a tracking system
offered by Waterloo, Ontario-based RIM.  A ban would have hurt the image of the U.A.E., home to the
business hub of Dubai, as place that is business-friendly, said
 Mohammed Ali Yasin , chief investment officer at CAPM Investments
in Abu Dhabi.  “The fact that we are continuing with the services is
important to say we are part of the world community,” he said.  The companies involved would have lost “significant
business” if the ban had gone through, he said.  Encryption Technology  Emirates Telecommunications Corp.,  the U.A.E.’s biggest
phone operator, known as Etisalat, and  Emirates Integrated
Telecommunications Co.,  based in Dubai and owner of the Du
brand, had introduced packages that would allow customers to
replace BlackBerry devices with smartphones offering similar
services.  Etisalat said in an e-mailed statement today that its
alternative packages will no longer be available and that all
its BlackBerry services will continue to operate as normal. Du
said in a separate statement that service for both consumer and
enterprise customers will function normally.  An Etisalat official who declined to be named said he did
not know about any possible monitoring and referred questions to
the regulator. “We only provide the service,” the official
said. Calls to a Du official went unanswered today, the first
day of the weekend in the U.A.E.  The U.A.E. set the Oct. 11 shutdown deadline in August
after the regulator said the encryption technology didn’t comply
with national-security laws for giving authorities access to
electronic messages.  RIM has about 1.1 million users in India and a combined 1.2
million in the U.A.E. and Saudi Arabia, according to estimates
by RBC Capital Markets analyst  Mike Abramsky . The company has
over 50 million subscribers globally.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Zahraa Alkhalisi  in Abu Dhabi at 
 zalkhalisi@bloomberg.net ;
 Hugo Miller  in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net :
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  