-- Hungary Says Sludge Spill Doesn't Threaten Danube's Wildlife
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2010-10-08T14:55:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/hungary-says-toxic-sludge-contamination-doesn-t-threaten-danube-s-wildlife.html
The Hungarian toxic spill, which
released about the same volume of sludge as the oil disgorged
after a BP Plc rig in the Gulf of Mexico, doesn’t threaten the
Danube river’s wildlife because the level of alkalinity is
falling, a government official said.  Alkalinity was measured at about 8 on the 14-point pH scale
in the affected parts of the Danube,  Tibor Dobson , a spokesman
for the country’s  emergency services , said by phone. The pH
level was 13 at the site of the spill and the sludge killed all
wildlife in the Marcal, the first river it reached.  “The current pH level in the Danube is absolutely not
dangerous for the flora and fauna of the river,” Dobson said.
“It appears that we managed to save the river’s wildlife.”  A reservoir burst this week, releasing as much as 700,000
cubic meters (25 million cubic feet) of sludge, government
spokeswoman Anna Nagy told reporters in Budapest today. Hungary
earlier put the volume at 1 million cubic meters. An estimated
4.9 million barrels (27.5 million cubic feet) of crude oil
spilled into the Gulf of Mexico over almost three months after
BP’s Deepwater Horizon rig exploded in April.  The death toll in Hungary reached six today when a victim
died in the hospital and a body was found near one of the
inundated villages, MTI news service reported.  Worst Disaster  The incident, which the government said is the worst
“ecological disaster” in Hungary’s history, occurred at a
facility of  Magyar Aluminium Zrt.  160 kilometers (100 miles)
southwest of Budapest. The red-colored sludge, a byproduct of
bauxite refining, flooded three towns.  Allianz SE, Europe’s largest insurer, insured the aluminum
plant through its Hungarian subsidiary, both for liability and
property claims, spokesman  Eduard Stipic  said by phone today. He
declined to comment on the size of potential damages.  “While this is not going to be a minor claim, I doubt it
will be big enough to hit Allianz’s bottom line,” said  Roland Pfaender , an analyst with Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “It’s
hard to gauge an impact without more details.”  Magyar Aluminium started a fund worth 200,000 euros
($279,000) for the recovery effort and urged other companies in
the industry to contribute, according to a statement on its
website. It also urged the government to reinstate its operating
license to avoid losing costumers and ensure its 1,100 jobs.  Toxin Concern  The contamination of the Danube, Europe’s second-longest
river, won’t affect neighboring countries, Dobson said. The
river reaches Croatia about 250 kilometers (155 miles) south of
the Hungarian capital, then travels through Serbia, Bulgaria,
Moldova, Ukraine and Romania before reaching the Black Sea.  There is no danger to drinking water, Hungarian Interior
Minister  Sandor Pinter  told reporters in Budapest today.  The spill is more toxic than officials say, because it
contains a “surprisingly” high level of toxins, Marton Vay,
spokesman for the Hungarian chapter of  Greenpeace , said by
phone. The concentration of arsenic is twice the normal level
for red sludge, he said, citing tests at two laboratories.  “This represents a big threat for the drinking-water
network,” Vay said. “The sludge that was spilled appears to be
different from red sludge as described in textbooks.”  The government had the sludge examined by experts at the
Hungarian Academy of Sciences and disagrees with the Greenpeace
findings, Nagy said by phone.  “We trust the academy entirely,” she said.  ‘Urgent Assistance’  The contamination won’t have any impact on Hungary’s Paks
nuclear power plant, about 115 kilometers downriver from
Budapest, Pinter said.  Hungary yesterday activated the European Union’s Civil
Protection Mechanism as it seeks “urgent international
assistance” in dealing with the spill.  The country needs three to five experts to assist with
pollution caused by the spill. They must have “strong field
experience in handling toxic sludge, decontamination and
mitigation of environmental damage,” the European Commission
said in an e-mailed statement.  Hungarian authorities have started a criminal investigation
into the accident. The spill was “probably caused by human
error,” government spokeswoman Nagy said at a press conference
in Budapest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edith Balazs  in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  