-- UniCredit’s Pioneer Is Ready to Review Partnership Options
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   A n d r e a   C a t h e r w o o d
-- 2010-10-08T10:11:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/unicredit-s-pioneer-in-position-to-consider-partner-options-ceo-says.html
UniCredit SpA ’s  Pioneer Global Asset
Management  unit is in a position to consider options for a
partnership after it “pretty much completed” preliminary work
of its strategic review.  “We are at the point now where we can consider all the
options open to us,” Pioneer Chief Executive Officer  Roger Yates , 53, said in an interview with  Andrea Catherwood  on
Bloomberg TV’s “The Pulse” program today. Pioneer has almost
gathered enough information to start discussions with possible
partners, he said.  Milan-based UniCredit, Italy’s biggest lender, said in May
it would review options for Pioneer as part of a plan to
strengthen the bank’s finances after the global credit crisis.
Chief Executive officer Federico Ghizzoni, who replaced
 Alessandro Profumo  last month, said Oct. 1 the lender’s plan for
Pioneer hasn’t changed.  A partnership for Pioneer will help the company reach “a
critical mass,” widening the range of products and markets
where it operates, according to Yates. Pioneer needs to grow in
Asia, particularly in Japan and Australia, as well as expand its
property business, he said.  Merger Partner  UniCredit is unlikely to agree on a merger partner for
Pioneer before the end of the year as it plans discussions with
at least four candidates, two people with direct knowledge of
the talks said Oct. 7. The deal would likely involve a stock
transaction with a French or other European company, the people
said.  Yates declined to identify the firms interested in a
partnership with Pioneer, saying only it received “a lot of
interest in the project.”  Amundi, the asset-management venture that  Credit Agricole
SA  started in January with  Societe Generale SA , may look at
Pioneer, Amundi CEO  Yves Perrier  said in August. Natixis SA
Chief Executive Officer  Laurent Mignon  said on Aug. 5 that
Pioneer would fit with the French bank’s “strategic
developments” as it looks for partnerships. Paris-based BNP
Paribas SA also may be interested, according to a person
familiar with the matter.  Pioneer, which oversees about 185 billion euros ($258
billion), operates in 29 countries with about 2,000 employees.
It earned 167 million euros before taxes in the first half, up
about 35 percent from a year earlier.  ----With assistance from  Elisa Martinuzzi  in Milan and
 Jacqueline Simmons  in Paris. Editors:  Dan Liefgreen ,  James Amott   To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sonia Sirletti  in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net . 