-- Turkcell Plans German Virtual Network With Deutsche Telekom
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2010-10-08T09:54:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/turkcell-plans-to-set-up-virtual-network-in-germany-with-deutsche-telekom.html
Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS ,
Turkey’s biggest mobile-phone operator, set up a German unit
targeted at winning customers among the 3.5 million Turks living
in the European Union’s biggest economy.  The division will begin as a mobile virtual network
operator in 2011 under a five-year contract, Turkcell said today
in a  statement . Cologne-based Turkcell Europe will offer third-
generation mobile technology in a partnership with  Deutsche
Telekom AG , Chief Executive Officer  Sureyya Ciliv  said in a
separate e-mailed statement.  Turkcell, which competes in its home market with  Vodafone
Group Plc  and  Turk Telekomunikasyon AS ’s Avea Iletisim
Hizmetleri division, wants to expand abroad as Turkey’s mobile-
phone market shrinks. The ratio of mobile users to population
fell to 85 percent at the end of June from 87 percent at the end
of 2009 and 92 percent in late 2008, according to the Turkish
telecommunications regulator.  Mobile-phone penetration among the Turkish population in
Germany is 92 percent, providing an opportunity for growth,
Istanbul-based Turkcell said. Virtual operators, which provide
services under contract using other companies’ networks, make up
34 percent of Germany’s mobile market, Turkcell said.  “Although we believe that there could be potential in this
business going forward, the short-term effects will be
immaterial,”  Ilke Takimoglu Homris , an analyst at Is Investment
who reduced her recommendation on Turkcell to “market
underperform” from “market perform,” said in a research
report. “The competition is likely to follow a similar route.”  Vodafone Price Cut  Vodafone announced a price cut yesterday for calls between
Germany and Turkey. Customers in Turkey can call other Vodafone
users or fixed-line phones in Germany at 6.5 kurus (4.6 cents) a
minute, the Newbury, England-based mobile-phone operator, the
world’s biggest, said in a statement. That compares with 7.5
kurus a minute it  charges  for calling other EU markets.  Turkcell  was unchanged at 10.60 liras as of 12:29 p.m. in
Istanbul trading. The stock is also unchanged this year.  The company’s subscriber market share in Turkey declined to
55.1 percent at the end of June from 57.1 percent a year earlier
while Vodafone gained 2.8 percentage points to 26.2 percent,
according to the regulator’s figures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ercan Ersoy  in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 