-- Turkish August Output Jumped Most in 10 Months on Consumer Demand Increase
-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 2010-10-08T07:54:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/turkish-august-output-jumped-most-in-10-months-on-consumer-demand-increase.html
Turkish  industrial production 
increased at the fastest pace in 10 months in August as growing
domestic demand helped the economy rebound from the global
financial crisis.  Output rose 2.7 percent in the month, accelerating from a
revised 0.4 percent expansion in July, the government statistics
agency in Ankara said on its website today.  Production  was up
14.2 percent from August 2009 when adjusted for the number of
working days. Without that adjustment, the annual increase was
11 percent, compared with a median forecast of 8.2 percent in a
Bloomberg  survey  of seven economists.  “The monthly figure is important and it’s very strong,”
 Haluk Burumcekci , chief economist at Fortis Bank AS in Istanbul,
said in a telephone interview. “It’s likely to put upward
pressure on our annual growth estimate, which is already 7
percent.”  Turkish  gross domestic product  grew an annual 10.3 percent
in the second quarter, matching China as the fastest-growing
among the Group of 20 major economies. That followed an 11.7
percent expansion in the first three months.  The central bank has held its benchmark  one-week repo 
lending rate unchanged at a record low of 7 percent for 10
months to support domestic growth amid fears for weakness in the
global economy. Low rates have helped to drive an expansion in
bank lending that has fueled the economy’s revival even as
growth falters in some of its main European export markets.  The pace of the recovery has prompted the central bank to
start implementing an “exit strategy” to soak up additional
liquidity it provided during last year’s crisis. In the past
month it increased the reserves that banks must deposit against
lira liabilities, said it will no longer pay interest on the
deposits, and stepped up purchases of dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steve Bryant  in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 