-- Husky Energy Plans to Commission New Equipment at Lima, Ohio, Refinery
-- B y   L e e l a   L a n d r e s s
-- 2010-10-08T19:50:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/husky-energy-plans-to-commission-new-equipment-at-lima-ohio-refinery.html
Husky Energy Inc.  plans to commission
a new piece of equipment on Oct. 9 at its Lima, Ohio, refinery,
the company said in a message left on a community hot line.  “There is nothing material that is occurring at the
refinery at this time, so we have no statement,”  Graham White ,
a company spokesman, said today. There is no impact to
production, he said.  Maintenance was scheduled for this fall on the refinery’s
fluid catalytic cracker and coker units, the company said on its
 website  in April. It said “several major environmental and
reliability projects will be installed.”  The Ohio Environmental Protection Agency said construction
was completed today on a new natural gas-fired steam boiler.
When the boiler is installed, the refinery will permanently shut
down the carbon monoxide boiler used in conjunction with the
fluid catalytic cracking unit, according to the EPA.  The refinery’s production units include a fluid catalytic
cracker, a hydrocracker, a delayed coker and a catalytic
reformer. Cat crackers process vacuum gasoil into gasoline or
lighter products while hydrocrackers convert heavy hydrocarbons
into fuels such as diesel.  The refinery makes 25 percent of the gasoline used in Ohio,
along with 30,000 barrels a day of diesel and 25,000 of jet
fuel, plus residual fuels and petrochemical feedstocks,
according to the company’s  website . About 80 percent of the
crude processed at the refinery is domestic, with additional
supplies from the North Sea and West Africa, according to the
Canadian company.  The Lima plant has a capacity of 170,000 barrels a day,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The refinery accounts
for about 4.2 percent of the refining capacity in the Midwest,
or PADD 2, region of the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Leela Landress  in Houston at 
 llandress@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  