-- Vranos IPO Raises $101 Million to Buy Subprime Bonds
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 2010-10-08T20:30:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/vranos-s-ellington-financial-ipo-raises-101-million-on-2nd-try.html
Ellington Financial LLC , the
mortgage-backed bond fund run by  Michael Vranos , raised $101
million in its second attempt at an initial public offering
after four U.S. IPOs this week were postponed or delayed.  The company sold 4.5 million shares for $22.50 each
yesterday, after offering them at $22 to $24 apiece, according
to Bloomberg data. Old Greenwich, Connecticut-based  Ellington
Financial  intends to use the proceeds to buy the types of
mortgage bonds that helped cause the biggest housing bust since
the Great Depression.  Vranos, the former head of mortgage-securities trading at
Kidder Peabody & Co., completed the sale 10 months after
canceling Ellington Financial’s first IPO attempt, which had
sought $208 million. This time, he offered the shares at a
discount to the value of the fund’s net assets after seeking as
much as $27 apiece in December. Before bankers began marketing
the deal three days ago, they had lined up investors for at
least half the shares, a person familiar with the sale said.  “If you’re going to ask them to buy into asset pools that
will be buying more speculative assets, you have to give people
enough of a discount where they’re willing to take a gamble,”
said  Michael Yoshikami , who oversees about $1 billion at YCMNet
Advisors in Walnut Creek, California. “Risk appetite has
increased, but people are still risk averse.”  Stock Market Debut  Ellington Financial’s shares retreated  3.3 percent  to
$21.75 in U.S. composite trading today.  Deutsche Bank AG  of Frankfurt led the sale. Zurich-based
 Credit Suisse Group AG , Ellington Financial’s lead underwriter
in December, was dropped from the deal, according to the
company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Ellington Financial’s offering comes after the market for
U.S. initial sales started to rebound last month, with eight of
10 IPOs posting gains, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  At least 47 companies have postponed or withdrawn initial
offerings in the U.S. this year amid speculation that the
recovery from the longest recession since the Great Depression
is deteriorating.  Linc Logistics Co. , the Warren, Michigan-based
logistics company, delayed its $147 million IPO on Oct. 6,
according to Bloomberg data.  The initial offering was one of at least four scheduled for
this week to be postponed or delayed, the data showed.  Chinese IPOs  Global Education & Technology Group Ltd. , a Beijing-based
language test preparation provider, climbed 16 percent to $12.20
after raising $67 million.  Chinese companies have recorded six of the 10 biggest
advances among IPOs in the U.S. this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  As much as  95 percent  of the proceeds from Ellington
Financial’s IPO will be used to buy securities tied to subprime,
Alt-A, or prime home loans that lack guarantees from government
agencies such as Fannie Mae. The purchases would add to the $246
million the fund held in such securities at the end of June.  Ellington Financial had a so-called book value, or its
assets minus liabilities, of $25.31 per share as of Aug. 31,
according to the filing. The midpoint offer price of $23 a share
would have been a 9.1 percent discount to the fund’s net assets,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The average  U.S. real estate investment trust  that buys
mortgages is valued at 0.98 times its shareholder equity, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Relative Value  While the IPO gave buyers the opportunity to purchase a
stake in Ellington Financial at a discount, institutional owners
had assigned a lower value to Vranos’ fund.  Bill Miller , whose $1.9 billion  Legg Mason Capital
Management Opportunity Trust  owned a 21 percent stake in
Ellington Financial, valued his 2.5 million-share holding at
$49.375 million, or $19.75 each, as of June 30, Baltimore-based
 Legg Mason Inc.’s  filing with the SEC showed.  That’s 20 percent less than Ellington Financial’s valuation
of $24.56 a share on the same day, according to its filing.  FBR Capital Markets Corp.  of Arlington, Virginia, which
owned a 12 percent stake as Ellington Financial’s second-largest
outside investor, valued its 1.44 million-share stake at $15
each at the end of June, its SEC filing showed.  Ellington Financial was established in August 2007, the
month that the credit crisis began, after raising $239.7 million
in a private sale to institutional buyers.  Past Performance  From its inception through the end of 2008, the fund
returned 0.52 percent, before a 43 percent gain last year.
Ellington Financial has returned 7.3 percent this year through
August, compared with the 7.4 percent gain, including dividends,
for the  BBREIT Mortgage Index , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Vranos, 49, came to Wall Street more than two decades ago
after winning the 1981 teenage Mr. Connecticut title as a
bodybuilder and weightlifter and graduating with a magna cum
laude degree in mathematics from Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
 Harvard University  in 1983.  He made Kidder one of the biggest underwriters of mortgage
bonds in the early 1990s after being put in charge of the
mortgage desk. The unit earned hundreds of millions of dollars
under Vranos, in some years bringing in as much as half of the
firm’s profit.  ‘Captain Iron’  Vranos, who earned the nickname “Captain Iron” at Harvard
for the long hours he spent in the gym, once stripped to the
waist and performed muscle poses to catcalls from the trading
floor at Kidder, according to a Wall Street Journal story from
Dec. 29, 1994.  He left Kidder in 1994 to start Ellington Management Group
LLC, named after the Connecticut town where he grew up, helped
by $100 million from Ziff Brothers Investments.  Vranos was unavailable for comment, according to  Patrick Clifford , a spokesman for Ellington Financial.  At least three companies plan to raise a combined $409
million through U.S. IPOs next week, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. All three offerings are scheduled for Oct. 14.  NetSpend Holdings Inc. , the issuer of reloadable prepaid
debit cards based in Austin, Texas, is selling  $222 million  of
shares in what would be the biggest IPO of the three. Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., Bank of America Corp. in Charlotte, North
Carolina, and Chicago-based William Blair & Co. are leading the
sale for NetSpend.  Tower International Inc. , the automobile parts supplier
owned by New York-based buyout firm Cerberus Capital Management
LP, is seeking to raise $106 million in its offering. Goldman
Sachs, Citigroup Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York are
managing the Livonia, Michigan-based company’s sale.  Body Central  Acquisition Corp., the clothing retailer based
in Jacksonville, Florida, will attempt to raise  $80 million . The
IPO is being led by Piper Jaffray Cos. of Minneapolis and New
York-based Jefferies Group Inc. The company will change its name
to Body Central Corp. before the sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lee Spears  in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
 Cecile Vannucci  in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 