-- Wal-Mart to End Employee Profit-Sharing in February
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e   a n d   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2010-10-08T20:24:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/wal-mart-to-end-employee-profit-sharing-in-february.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. , the largest
U.S. private employer, plans to end profit-sharing contributions
in February, replacing them with matches to employee 401(k)
retirement plans to bring down benefits costs.  The retailer will match contributions up to 6 percent of
eligible  employees’  pay, according to a memo obtained by
Bloomberg News. Previously, Wal-Mart automatically put up to 4
percent of pay into the profit-sharing plan, according to
spokesman  David Tovar .  Since taking over in 2009, Chief Executive Officer  Mike Duke  has pledged to slow expense growth, aiming to counter five
consecutive quarters of sales declines at U.S. stores open at
least a year. The switch by Wal-Mart, which has about 1.4
million U.S. employees, will only benefit those who are in the
plans, so staff will need to join to profit from the move, said
retirement consultant Byron Beebe.  “It does require employees to participate,” said Beebe,
the marketing head for the U.S. retirement practice at benefits
consultant Aon Hewitt in Cleveland. Beebe said 401(k)
participation rates in the retail industry are lower than the
average, which is around 75 percent.  Tovar wouldn’t disclose what percentage of Wal-Mart’s 1.1
million eligible employees currently contribute to the 401(k)
plan, which is administered by Merrill Lynch & Co. Employees
must wait a year before becoming eligible, he said.  Employee Perspective  Kalila Sams, 24, a customer-service manager at a Wal-Mart
in Atlanta, said she would welcome a 401(k) match. Sams, who
has worked at the retailer for about a year, said she earns $10
an hour for 20 hours a week.  “Things are tight right now, but it would encourage me to
save because you’re putting money away before you see it,” Sams
said in an interview.  Wal-Mart rose 5 cents to $54.41 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite  trading . The stock has advanced 1.8 percent
this year.  Some money saved from the switch will go toward quarterly
bonuses for store employees, Tovar said. He said the move is
part of a “comprehensive benefits package” that offers
employees “the potential to receive more income today through
our bonus incentive programs, and incentives to save and help
them plan for retirement.”  Wake-Up Wal-Mart, a Washington-based group funded by the
United Food and Commercial Workers union that has sought to
organize the retailer’s workers, said the change showed “a
fundamental lack of respect for associates.”  Out of Touch  “To demand that people who already make poverty-level
wages begin to pay in order to receive any retirement benefits
is out of touch with the reality of employees’ lives,” Jennifer
Stapleton, assistant director of Wake-Up Wal-Mart, said in an e-
mailed statement.  “Based on feedback from associates, we redesigned our plans
to make them more contemporary, relevant and in line with what
most companies already do,” Tovar said in an e-mailed statement
in response to Stapleton’s remarks.  Retirement plans such as 401(k)s allow workers to put money
in tax-deferred accounts for retirement. Employer matches to
workers’ contributions help employees increase savings and
provide an incentive for them to contribute, said Nancy Hwa, a
spokeswoman for the Washington-based Pension Rights Center.  “There are very few companies that only have profit-
sharing plans anymore,” said  David Wray , president of the
Profit Sharing/401k Council of America, a Chicago-based
nonprofit representing companies with 401(k) plans. “Profit
sharing is variable and up to the company’s discretion and a
fixed match is more predictable.”  Common Contributions  The most common contribution by larger employers is 3
percent if workers save 6 percent of their salaries, according
to Robyn Credico, defined-contribution practice leader in North
America for Towers Watson.  The number of participants in traditional pension plans,
where employers generally provide retired employees with
lifetime payments, fell to about 19 million in 2007 from 27
million in 1975. In that same period, workers in defined
contribution plans such as 401(k)s increased to 67 million from
11 million, according to the U.S. Department of Labor.  Wal-Mart’s profit-sharing plan was created in 1971 by
company co-founder  Sam Walton , according to his biography,
“Made in America.”  During the year ending Jan. 31, 2008, Wal-Mart contributed
$724.4 million to 838,955 hourly employees in profit-sharing and
401(k) contributions, according to a May 2008 company press
release. Data for more recent years wasn’t immediately
available.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Boyle  in New York at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net ;
 Duane D. Stanford  in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Julie Alnwick at 
 jalnwick@bloomberg.net ;
Rick Levinson at 
 rlevinson2@bloomberg.net  