-- Wholesale Inventories in U.S. Rose 0.8% in August
-- B y   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n
-- 2010-10-08T14:14:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/wholesale-inventories-in-u-s-increased-more-than-estimated-0-8-in-august.html
Inventories at U.S. wholesalers rose
more than forecast in August as companies kept stockpiles in
line with demand.  The 0.8 percent increase in the value of  inventories 
followed a revised 1.5 percent gain in July that was more than
initially estimated, Commerce Department figures showed today in
Washington. Sales rose 0.5 percent after a 0.8 percent gain a
month earlier.  The amount of  goods on hand  compared with sales suggests
manufacturing will keep expanding, providing a lift for the
economy. Even so inventory rebuilding, which helped the U.S.
recover from the worst recession since the 1930s, will probably
 contribute  less to growth as consumers refrain for ramping up
spending.  “Inventories will inch higher but they’re not going to be
a big driver of growth,”  Andrew Gretzinger , a senior economist
at MFC Global Investment Management in Toronto, said before the
report.  An earlier report today showed the U.S. lost more jobs than
forecast in September. Payrolls fell by 95,000 during the month,
while the unemployment rate held at 9.6 percent, the Labor
Department said.  Economists forecast inventories would increase 0.5 percent
after a previously reported 1.3 percent gain in July, according
to the median of 34 projections in a Bloomberg survey. Estimates
ranged from increases of 0.2 percent to 0.8 percent.  Wholesalers make up about 30 percent of all business
stockpiles.  Factory inventories , which comprise more of the
total, rose 0.1 percent in August, the Commerce Department said
Oct. 4. Retail stockpiles, which make up the rest, will be
included in the Oct. 15 business inventories report.  Durable Goods  Today’s report showed wholesalers’ stockpiles of durable
goods, or those meant to last several years, increased 0.6
percent in August, led by furniture, electrical equipment and
hardware.  The value of unsold non-durable goods rose 1.2 percent and
sales increased 0.5 percent. Sales and inventories of petroleum
products advanced in August from the previous month.  At the current sales pace, wholesalers had enough goods on
hand to last 1.16 months in August, the same as a month earlier.
The inventory-to-sales ratio reached a record low of 1.13 months
in April.  The need to restock depleted inventories, which was a major
driver of the start of the economic recovery, will diminish in
coming months as companies try to keep inventories more in line
with demand.  ‘Little Bit Bumpy’  John Chambers , chief executive officer of San Jose,
California-based Cisco Systems Inc., last week said economic
conditions appeared “a little bit bumpy.”  Cisco, the world’s largest maker of networking equipment,
“saw the market returning to more normal growth rates,” he
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “In Business With
Margaret Brennan.” Most chief executives Cisco talks to are
projecting economic growth of 2 percent or less, he said, “and
that means they’ll probably spend appropriately and also hire
appropriately.”  Some retailers are adding to stockpiles in anticipation
spending will be sustained.  “The customer is trying to get out there a little more,
though they’re going to be cautious,”  James Skinner , chief
financial officer of Neiman-Marcus Group Inc., said on a
teleconference on Sept. 30. “What we need to do is start
engaging them, still maintaining tight, controlled inventory,
but with a little more aggressiveness than last year.”  Public opinion polls show jobs and the economy are top
concerns among voters weeks before the November congressional
elections in which Democrats are at risk of losing their
majorities in the House of Representatives and the Senate.  President Barack Obama’s job approval ratings have slipped,
with it at 46 percent in the three-day period that ended Sept.
30, compared with 52 percent the same time last year, according
to a poll from Princeton, New Jersey-based Gallup Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington at 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  