-- Ambac May Delay Payments 9 Years Under Wisconsin Plan
-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s
-- 2010-10-08T19:40:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/wisconsin-files-plan-to-reorganize-ambac-subprime-mortgage-backed-policies.html
Ambac Assurance Corp. may delay
payouts on policies insuring $50 billion of residential
mortgage-backed securities under a plan unveiled by Wisconsin’s
insurance commissioner.  The plan to restructure the portfolio of policies, filed
today in state court in Madison, will pay 25 percent of claims
now, and the balance over the next nine years at 5.1 percent
interest, Insurance Commissioner  Sean Dilweg  said. Judge William
D. Johnston would have to approve the department’s proposed
terms.  “The plan of rehabilitation maximizes claims-paying
resources, limits damage to policyholders and provides a clear
framework to address claims in an orderly and reasonable
manner,” Dilweg said in a statement.  Ambac Assurance is the Wisconsin-based bond insurance unit
of  Ambac Financial Group Inc. , based in New York. It was the
second-largest bond insurer before the onset of the credit
crisis.  Dilweg’s office in March ordered Ambac to hand over its
subprime assets to isolate them from the rest of the insurer’s
business as defaults accelerated policy  claims , threatening to
deplete the company’s reserves.  Payments Halted  Payment of claims on the segregated policies has halted
pending approval of the rehabilitation proposal.  A spokesman for the company,  Peter Poillon , said by phone
that Ambac had no comment on the merits of Dilweg’s plan.  Investors had previously objected to setting up a
segregated account for their policies that would pay 25 cents on
the dollar in cash on claims, in addition to surplus notes that
may be redeemed later if Ambac has sufficient funds.  Critics said that plan favored banks that purchased
protection separately for collateralized debt obligations.  Dilweg said his department had started monitoring Ambac
Assurance in 2008 during the global financial crisis and that by
the end of 2009, the insurer’s “numbers were going upside
down.” The insurer was  paying out  as much as $150 million per
month, without taking in equivalent capital, he said today in a
telephone interview.  “That was unsustainable,” Dilweg said.  Dilweg said he was “comfortable” there were adequate funds
to cover existing policyholders and to pay out on the nine-year
notes. The plan won’t put policyholders at risk of a company
failure later, he said.  “We’re not doing this without court approval,” he said.
“People will have their day in court.”  Johnston is expected to set a hearing date for plan
confirmation on Oct. 14, according to court records.  The case is In Re: The Rehabilitation of Segregated Account
of Ambac Assurance Corp., 2010cv001576, Dane County Circuit
Court (Madison).  -- With assistance from  Christine Richard  and  Andrew Frye  in New
York. Editors:  Fred Strasser ,  Peter Blumberg   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 