-- Goldwind Rises on First Day of Trading in Hong Kong After Selling Shares
-- B y   J o h n   D u c e
-- 2010-10-08T03:12:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/xinjiang-goldwind-s-shares-advance-on-first-day-of-trading-in-hong-kong.html
Xinjiang Goldwind Science &
Technology Co. , a Chinese wind-turbine maker, surged on its
first day of trading in Hong Kong on speculation China’s efforts
to encourage clean energy will spur earnings.  The  shares  climbed 9.2 percent to HK$19.64 at 11:06 a.m.
local time, beating the 0.8 percent gain in the benchmark Hang
Seng index. Goldwind shelved the sale on June 14, citing poor
market conditions. The Hang Seng has since advanced 15 percent.  Goldwind, already listed on the smaller of mainland China’s
two stock exchanges in Shenzhen, plans to use the sale proceeds
to expand production capacity and become one of the world’s top
three wind-turbine makers in five years. The net proceeds are
about HK$6.8 billion ($877 million), the Urumqi, Xinjiang-based
company said in a statement to the Hong Kong exchange yesterday.  “This company has a good market position in China and it’s
benefitting from government policy encouraging the use of wind
power,” said  Dennis Lam , an analyst at DBS Vickers Hong Kong
Ltd. “It’s a good-quality company. The market earlier this year
in Hong Kong was affected by the financial crisis in Europe, so
it’s no surprise that with the recovery the stock has been well
received by investors.”  China, the world’s biggest polluter, may spend about 5
trillion yuan in the next decade developing cleaner sources of
energy to reduce emissions from burning oil and coal. China
erected more wind turbines in 2009 than any other country and
may install a record 18 gigawatts of wind-power capacity this
year, Bloomberg New Energy Finance estimates show.  Profit May Rise  The stock rose 3 percent to 19.83 yuan in Shenzhen trading,
outpacing the 2.6 percent gain in the benchmark Shenzhen
Composite Index.  Goldwind will likely increase consolidated profit by at
least 26 percent to 2.2 billion yuan ($330 million) this year,
the company said in June.  Revenue  totaled 10.7 billion yuan last
year, with China accounting for 99 percent of sales. About 44
million yuan of revenue came from overseas.  Moody’s Investors Service put China’s debt rating on review
for a possible upgrade today, spurring Chinese stocks. The
ratings company cited the country’s growth outlook and its
ability to absorb losses from last year’s surge in bank lending.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Duce  in Hong Kong at 
 Jduce1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 