-- Yankees Beat Twins 5-2, Rangers Defeat Rays for 2-0 Leads in AL Playoffs
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r   a n d   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-10-08T04:40:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/yankees-beat-twins-5-2-rangers-defeat-rays-for-2-0-leads-in-al-playoffs.html
The New York Yankees and Texas
Rangers made home field a disadvantage, winning their first two
playoff games on the road and leaving the Minnesota Twins and
Tampa Bay Rays on the brink of elimination.  Lance Berkman  drove in two runs with a home run and a
double to lead the Yankees to a 5-2 win in Minnesota and a 2-0
lead in their best-of-five American League Division Series.
Texas also took a two-game lead by winning 6-0 yesterday in St.
Petersburg, Florida.  “We’ve got a big hill to climb,” Twins manager  Ron Gardenhire , who was ejected in the seventh inning, said in a
news conference. “It’s very disappointing in front of our fans
here to lose two ballgames.”  In the National League,  Tim Lincecum  pitched a two-hitter
to lead the host San Francisco Giants to a 1-0 win against the
Atlanta Braves in the opening game of their playoff series.  Lincecum had 14 strikeouts in his postseason debut,
allowing only  Omar Infante ’s double to open the game and  Brian McCann’s  double in the seventh inning.  Cody Ross  had a run-
scoring single in the fourth for the Giants.  “Everything just went where it was supposed to,” Lincecum
said in a televised interview. “Things happened the way they
should have.”  Lincecum, 26, had the most strikeouts in a postseason game
since  Roger Clemens  had 15 for the Yankees in the 2000 AL
Championship Series against the Seattle Mariners.  The other NL series resumes tonight with Philadelphia
trying to take a 2-0 lead against the Cincinnati Reds, who are
still looking for their first hit of the postseason after
getting no-hit by  Roy Halladay  in the opener.  Weekend Games  The Giants and Braves play Game 2 of their series tonight
in San Francisco. The two AL series resume tomorrow in New York
and Arlington, Texas, with the Yankees and Rangers each needing
one more win to advance to the AL Championship Series.  The only team to win a best-of-five playoff series after
losing the first two games at home was the 2001 Yankees.  Andy Pettitte  picked up his 19th postseason win, extending
his Major League Baseball record, as the Yankees rallied for the
second straight game against the Twins.  Berkman, who was traded from the Houston Astros to the
Yankees on July 31, hit a solo home run off former Yankee  Carl Pavano  in the fifth inning and snapped a 2-2 tie with a run-
scoring double in the seventh at Target Field in Minneapolis.  “That’s why I wanted to come over here, was just the
chance to play in these games,” Berkman said in a news
conference. “I just want to be able to contribute and maybe
help us win a few games here in October.”  Manager Ejections  Berkman drove in the go-ahead run one pitch after Pavano
thought he had a strikeout on a fastball on the inside corner.
After the hit, Gardenhire was ejected for arguing the call with
home plate umpire Hunter Wendelstedt.  Gardenhire’s ejection came hours after Rays manager  Joe Maddon  was thrown out of his team’s loss for arguing a similar
two-strike call. They were the first managers ejected in the
postseason since Atlanta’s Bobby Cox in 2005.  At Tropicana Field,  C.J. Wilson  and two relievers combined
on a two-hit shutout for Texas, the only current major league
franchise that hasn’t won a postseason series.  Michael Young  and
 Ian Kinsler  hit home runs for the Rangers.  The Rays, who led the AL with 96 wins during the regular
season, managed one run in losing the first two games of the
series at home. The AL East champions, who were shut down by
 Cliff Lee  in a 5-1 opening-game loss, now need to win three
straight to extend their season.  Lee’s Lead  “Cliff is a better version of me,” Wilson said in a news
conference. “He throws a little bit harder, he’s a little
taller, has a little bit smaller waist, so I try to follow his
lead on a lot of stuff.”  With the Rangers leading 2-0 in the fifth inning, Rays
reliever  Chad Qualls  replaced starting pitcher  James Shields  and
gave up a three-run homer to Young. It came one pitch after
umpires ruled Young checked his swing on a two-strike pitch.
Maddon was ejected for disputing the call.  “I really thought he had been struck out,” Maddon said.
“It’s really hard to yell from the dugout. Nobody can hear you,
so I had to go out to the mound and make my point.”  The Rangers already have won twice as many games this
postseason as in their previous 49 years, when they went 1-9 in
the playoffs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;
 Rob Gloster  at AT&T Park in San
Francisco at   rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  