-- Hydro Studies Acquisitions in Brazil, Argentina After Vale Deal
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2010-10-08T15:57:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/hydro-studies-acquisitions-in-brazil-argentina-after-vale-deal.html
Norsk Hydro ASA , Europe’s third-
largest aluminum maker, is considering expansion in Brazil and
Argentina after it completes the purchase of $4.9 billion of
assets from  Vale SA .  “We see South America, in general Brazil and Argentina, as
very important strategic countries where we are going to develop
our position in years to come,” Hydro’s Chief Executive Officer
 Svein Richard Brandtzaeg  said today in an interview in London.
“We have both organic expansion and acquisition options open.”  Hydro agreed on May 2 to buy Vale’s bauxite mining and
alumina refinery assets in Brazil, securing a century’s worth of
bauxite, used in aluminum production. The deal, which the Oslo-
based company expects to close before the end of the year, was
approved by Norway’s Ministry of Petroleum and Energy last month
and still requires the authorization of Brazil’s government.  The approvals process is going “according to plan,”
Brandtzaeg said. “There are several: competition, legislation,
and mining rights, and lots of bureaucratic approvals, so they
are coming gradually.”  Vale, which will acquire a 22 percent stake in  Hydro  as
part of the transaction, will appoint its Executive Director for
Basic Materials  Tito Martins  to the Norwegian company’s board,
Brandtzaeg said. Rio de Janeiro-based Vale produces iron ore,
precious and base metals and potash, as well as bauxite.  “It is a bigger advantage for us to have Vale in the
board,” Brandtzaeg said. “They will support us in overcoming
local challenges and difficulties in Brazil and they will have a
strong interest in Hydro at succeeding in that.”  Currency Strength  The strength of the Brazilian real, which this week reached
its highest level against the dollar in two years, is no
surprise given the growth of the economy, Brandtzaeg said. “We
are following the real’s development very carefully,” he said.  Even with a strong real, which increases salary costs,
Hydro can have “a good position” in Brazil, Brandtzaeg said,
adding that the projects it’s acquiring are “low cost.” The
Paragominas bauxite mine and the Alunorte plant, the world’s
biggest alumina refinery, will give Hydro more raw material than
it needs, Brandtzaeg said.  That surplus will allow Hydro to expand its Qatari  Qatalum 
aluminum smelter, which is set to produce as much as 585,000
metric tons of the metal a year by the end of the first quarter
of 2011, he said.  “With the raw-material position, we are very long and
we’ll use that in a profitable way,” Brandtzaeg said. Capacity
is stretched at Hydro’s extrusion operations in Brazil and
Argentina, the CEO said. Extrusion is a metal-shaping process
that forces the material through a tool known as a die.  “We have the radar working continuously and we still see
interesting opportunities in Brazil, but also a lot of
interesting opportunities in other countries,” he said.  Hydro opened its first office in Brazil in 1977. The
company has about 100 employees in Argentina, according to its
 website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Firat Kayakiran  in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net ;
 Juan Pablo Spinetto  in London at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net ;
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 