-- Hypermarcas Rallies to Record as Itau Cites `National Player' Potential
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 2010-10-08T20:18:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/hypermarcas-rallies-to-record-as-itau-cites-national-player-potential.html
Hypermarcas SA , Brazil’s fourth-
largest consumer-goods company by market value, rallied for a
fourth day, extending a record high, on speculation the national
development bank’s plan to buy its debt signals further funding
for acquisitions.  BNDES, as the bank is known, said Oct. 6 it may buy all
local bonds in a 1.1 billion-real ($659.1 million) issuance
planned by Hypermarcas, which has bought 10 companies in the
past year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. BNDES seeks to
promote consolidation among drugmakers to create a “national
player,” according to  Itau Unibanco Holding SA .  “An acquisition in the segment is in the cards in the very
short term,”  Juliana Rozenbaum , an analyst at Itau in Sao
Paulo, wrote in a note to clients yesterday. “Hypermarcas
should be held in every portfolio with exposure to Brazilian
consumers, given the scarcity value of exposure to the booming
low-end consumer staples market.”  The stock rose 0.9 percent to 28.65 reais at the close of
trading in Sao Paulo at 4 p.m. New York time, for its 12th gain
in 13 days.  Hypermarcas Chief Executive Officer  Claudio Bergamo  said in
August the company was in talks with about 10 potential targets,
and may make purchases in the next year and a half. The company,
based in Sao Paulo, makes consumer goods such as over-the-
counter medications, diapers and condoms.  BNDES may seek to boost consolidation in drugmakers to spur
the creation of large national companies, O Estado de S. Paulo
reported in December, citing Pedro Palmeira Filho, head of the
bank’s chemical and pharmaceutical products department. A BNDES
press officer, who asked not to be identified under bank policy,
declined to comment when contacted by Bloomberg News today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Cuadros  in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  