-- Zijin Mining, Zhongjin Gold Shares Jump as Bullion Prices Surge to Record
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-08T02:38:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-08/zijin-mining-zhongjin-gold-shares-jump-as-bullion-prices-surge-to-record.html
Zijin Mining Group Co. , China’s
largest gold producer, rose to almost a nine-month-high in Hong
Kong trading as gold futures jumped to a record in Shanghai.  Zijin gained as much as 12.7 percent to HK$7.44, the
highest level since January, in Hong Kong trading at 10:15 a.m.
The shares rose by the 10 percent daily limit in Shanghai
trading.  Zhongjin Gold Co.  rose 6.6 percent to 41.80 yuan in
Shanghai trading.  Gold gained to a record today in Shanghai, tracking
international gold prices, as investors sought an alternative
investment to the dollar. The dollar yesterday slid to an eight-
month low against the euro on speculation the U.S. Federal
Reserve will ease monetary policy.  “Zijin and other gold stocks are up because international
gold prices surged to a record during the Chinese holiday” this
week, said  Owen Liang , a Shenzhen-based analyst at Guotai Junan
Securities Co.  The metal for December-delivery on the Shanghai Futures
Exchange gained as much as 1.3 percent to 286.79 yuan a gram,
before trading at 286.74 by 9:55 a.m. local time. Gold for
immediate delivery reached a record $1,364.77 an ounce yesterday.  Penalty for Spill  Shandong Gold Mining Co. , a Shandong province-based
producer of the metal, rose as much as 10 percent and traded 8
percent up at 60.35 yuan at 9:53 a.m. in Shanghai.  Zijin may also be benefiting from a less-than-expected fine
imposed by the Fujian provincial government for its July toxic
metal waste spill.  The company  was fined 9.6 million yuan ($1.4
million) for the spill that poisoned almost 2,000 metric tons of
fish, the Fujian province-based company said yesterday.  Zijin may be fined as much as 500 million yuan for the leak,
Wu Kan, a Shanghai-based fund manager at Dazhong Insurance Co.,
said before the announcement.  “I am not concerned of the government fine as the amount
is small compared with the anticipated profit of Zijin,”
Guotai’s Liang said.  The Fujian environmental protection agency has ended its
investigation and the company needs to take more measures to
clean up the pollution, it said yesterday.  -- Xiao Yu . Editors:  Tan Hwee Ann ,  Indranil Ghosh .  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Xiao Yu in Beijing at   yxiao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  