-- Ramsay Opens First Australia Eatery, Nine Months After Pig Fury
-- Robert Fenner
-- 2010-03-28T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-03-28/ramsay-opens-first-australia-eatery-nine-months-after-pig-fury.html

          
          
             Gordon Ramsay’s first restaurant in
Australia opens today, nine months after the U.K. celebrity chef
had an on-camera clash with a television host on his last visit
that drew a rebuke from Prime Minister Kevin Rudd.  
 Maze, a 300-seat restaurant at the Crown Metropol hotel,
next to Melbourne’s only casino, will let diners choose their
Clare Valley Riesling or Penfolds Grange first before Head Chef
Josh Emett comes up with a meal to match. Emett, 36, says he
hopes the concept will catch on and that diners have moved on
from the Ramsay incident.  
 “It was unfortunate,” said Emett, in an interview at the
restaurant, commenting on the episode in which Ramsay likened a
female television host to a pig.  
 The Melbourne venue, Ramsay’s fifth under the Maze brand,
opens as the chef counts the costs of his company’s global
expansion. Last month, he opened the fourth in Doha. Like other
Mazes in New York, London and Cape Town, the Melbourne
restaurant will serve tapas-sized dishes.  
 Food at Maze Melbourne will have an Asian twist. Emett, who
ran Gordon Ramsay at the London in New York when it won two
Michelin stars in 2007, also wants to showcase Australian
ingredients such as beef from the island state of Tasmania or
seafood from the Southern Ocean. He is stopping short of putting
more exotic local wildlife such as emu on the menu.  
 “We’re not talking any kangaroo yet,” said Emett, a
native of New Zealand who has worked with Ramsay for a decade.  
 Diners who pick white wines might be served whole lobsters
or light salads, and those who choose “big reds” might have
family-style steaks, he said. Traditionally, diners get a chef-
driven menu and select their wines accordingly, he said.  
 Pairing wine with food and catering to dietary needs, such
as those of vegetarians, will be “a big challenge,” said
Emett. Ramsay himself won’t be attending the new restaurant
until the formal opening of the hotel next month, Emmet said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        