-- Bernanke Can Tell Congress He Stiffed the Banks: Caroline Baum
-- Caroline Baum
-- 2010-02-22T02:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-21/bernanke-can-tell-congress-he-stiffed-the-banks-caroline-baum.html

          
          
             When  Ben Bernanke  makes his
pilgrimage to Capitol Hill Wednesday to present the Federal
Reserve’s semi-annual monetary policy report to Congress, he
will have one new strike against him: the increase in the
 discount rate . If he plays his cards right, he can turn a
liability into an asset -- especially if he follows a few basic
pointers, which I’ll get to in a minute.  
 Last week, the Fed raised the discount rate by 0.25 point
to 0.75 percent and said the term of these direct loans to banks
will revert to overnight next month from 28 days now. It left
the  benchmark  overnight rate at 0 percent to 0.25 percent and
invoked the “extended period” clause to assure markets that
rate isn’t going up anytime soon.  
 Before the crisis, the discount rate stood 100 basis points
 more than  the federal funds rate, a reminder that borrowing at
the Fed window is a privilege, albeit at a price. During the
crisis, the Fed adopted a “come one, come all” policy, knowing
access to  Fed credit  was essential to banks’ provision of
 private credit .  
 The Fed portrayed the discount rate increase as a technical
adjustment, a step in the gradual process that has already
entailed the shuttering of various  emergency lending facilities .  
 Policy makers further downplayed the significance of the
move by including the announcement in its regular Thursday data
dump, sandwiched between the headlines “Fed Balance-Sheet
Assets Rose $21 billion” and “U.S. Primary Dealer Settlement
Fails.”  
 Target Practice  
 If Fed officials were contemplating an imminent increase in
the fed funds rate or reduction in the bank’s $2.3 trillion
 balance sheet , they wouldn’t have reiterated their intention to
complete the purchase of $1.25 trillion of agency  mortgage-
backed securities  by the end of March, which they did at the
 Jan. 27 meeting . You don’t load the boat in March to unload it
in April and May.  
 That said, the increase in the discount rate signals the
era of uber-liquidity is coming to an end.  
 Congress, never one to split hairs over which rate is being
manipulated, will view the discount-rate adjustment through its
binary operating filter: down, good; up, bad. Here’s where
Bernanke can play his trump card.  
 Who gets to borrow at the Fed’s discount window?  
 The banks.  
 Who is Congress’ favorite whipping boy?  
 The banks.  
 From whom does Congress seek retribution?  
 The banks.  
 See, it’s not that hard, Ben. Just tell them you are doing
God’s work.  
 Pointers for Ben  
 When it comes to monetary matters, you could say nothing
and still come out ahead. Congress has a unique ability to make
even the smarmiest witness seem sympathetic.  
 So Ben, here are a few pointers in dealing with the House
Financial Services and Senate Banking Committees this week:  
 1. Transparency is highly overrated.  
 Look how far dispensing empty platitudes got your
predecessor.  Alan Greenspan  was treated like a celebrity, and no
one had any idea what the Master of Garblements was saying.  
 Lawmakers don’t know a discount rate from a discount store.
It all feels like a perk to them.  
 2. Think and talk like a politician.  
 Politicians are skilled at non-answer answers. When a
prominent Republican lawmaker is asked if he thinks  Sarah Palin 
is fit to be president, he says something like, “I haven’t
decided who I’m going to support in 2012.”  
 Answers don’t have to fit the questions. Besides, these
folks love to hear themselves talk. They rarely get to the
question in the five minutes allotted. And if they do, they
aren’t really interested in your answer.  
 3. Table the talk about low interest rates not fueling the
housing bubble.  
 That may have been an appropriate academic exercise for
your address at the annual meeting of the  American Economic
Association  on Jan. 3. It won’t fly with House Financial
Services Chairman Barney “ roll-the-dice ” Frank.  
 Pretty soon, you will have to explain to him why the
benchmark rate can’t stay at zero for an extended period; how
easy money eventually leads to higher prices for goods and
services or for assets.  
 If low interest rates didn’t inflate the housing bubble in
2004 and 2005 when  unemployment  was hovering near 5 percent, why
should they be harmful when the jobless rate is twice that?  
 4. Downplay the Fed’s regulatory failures.  
 If the Fed wants to stay in the game of bank regulation,
it’s best not to advertise one’s own shortcomings, as you did at
the AEA meeting. No one buys the idea that a new and improved
systemic risk regulator will be able to spot the next financial
crisis. Senate Banking Committee Chairman  Chris Dodd  is about to
introduce a bill to overhaul financial regulation, and guess who
stands to lose some regulatory authority?  
 Right. It’s best not to advertise your failures if you want
to be a player.  
 ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve, right, greets Representative Barney Frank, a Democrat from Massachusetts, before giving the semi-annual monetary report to the House Financial Services Committee in Washington, July 21, 2009. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
