-- McCain Needs to Find Way Back to McCain: Albert Hunt
-- 
-- 2010-02-21T22:33:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-21/mccain-needs-to-find-way-back-to-mccain-albert-hunt-update1-.html

          
          
             Republican Senator John McCain of
 Arizona , an avid boxing fan, knows the story of Joe Louis, one
of the greatest heavyweight champions.  
 Sixty years ago, Louis, a profile in courage and character,
was an American hero rising to any challenge. Then he stayed
around too long and was humiliated by the younger Rocky Marciano
and  Ezzard Charles .  
 The 73-year-old McCain, another American hero, another
profile in courage and character, risks the same fate by staying
around too long. Bitter over his defeat by  Barack Obama  in the
2008 presidential race and facing a right-wing Republican
primary challenge this year, the independent maverick is no
more; he’s a predictable partisan who ducks controversy.  
 “John used to consistently cast votes on issues that were
considered non-partisan when I was in the Senate,” says former
Republican Senator Lincoln Chafee, who served from 1999 to 2007
and now is running as an independent for governor of  Rhode
Island . “Now, he’s different than the McCain I served with.”  
 The change isn’t about ideology. The Arizonian always has
been a right-of-center Republican.  
 He retains credibility on national-security issues,
particularly the wars in Iraq and  Afghanistan . On most other
matters, he’s AWOL.  
 Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell  
 His latest flip flop was on the military’s Don’t Ask, Don’t
Tell policy on gay soldiers. Four years ago, he indicated he
would be receptive to changing the policy if requested by
military leaders. When the military brass did just that last
month he blasted them, avoiding a confrontation with his Senate
primary opponent, J.D. Hayworth.  
 It must drive McCain crazy to have to run against this
opponent. Hayworth, a Rush Limbaugh-esque, 51-year-old former
congressman, who, when he was in the House, was described in a
survey of staffers by  Washingtonian Magazine  as one of the
“biggest windbags” in Congress. He lost his House seat in 2006
after he was linked to convicted felon and lobbyist  Jack Abramoff . He’s attacking McCain for being soft on big
government, gay marriage, immigrants and terrorists.  
 Yet, the veteran senator has positioned himself for a
challenge from the right. According to Congressional Quarterly,
last year, he voted the Republican line 96 percent of the time,
even more than party’s Senate leader, Mitch McConnell of
 Kentucky . In a campaign ad that aired last month, McCain says
Obama is “leading an extreme left-wing crusade to bankrupt
America,” including plans for a “government-run health care”
system.  
 Greenspan, Bernanke  
 His actions are more striking. In the 1990s, McCain voted
to confirm Supreme Court nominees Stephen Breyer and Ruth Bader Ginsburg, both chosen by Democratic President  Bill Clinton . Last
year, he voted against  Sonia Sotomayor , Obama’s nominee. The
pre-2008 McCain revered Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan;
three weeks ago, he voted against a second term for Greenspan’s
successor,  Ben S. Bernanke . Bernanke won Senate approval for
another term as Fed chairman.  
 He’s voted against 10 other Obama nominations, including
Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius,
regulatory czar Cass Sunstein, and U.S. Solicitor General Elena Kagan. The independent-minded Senate Republicans -- Maine’s
Olympia Snowe and  Susan Collins  and Indiana’s Richard Lugar --
voted for all three of these well-regarded nominees.  
 The McCain who periodically reached across the aisle is a
distant memory. He took the lead several years ago in trying to
forge a consensus on  climate change . Now he’s ceded that role to
South Carolina Republican  Lindsey Graham , the new  John McCain .  
 Immigration Overhaul  
 Several years ago, with Senator Edward M. Kennedy and
President  George W. Bush , he courageously pushed for an overhaul
of America’s ineffective immigration policies. He insisted that
the  Republican Party  had to be open to immigrants, that it was
good politics as well as good policy.  
 With assaults from Hayworth, who blames “lax immigration
laws” for the Sept. 11 attacks and favors an
“Americanization” doctrine that would require all immigrants
to learn English and adopt the culture of this country, McCain
is a non-player on the issue this year; here, too, Graham has
taken his place.  
 McCain “is in a primary struggle and not taking any public
role,” says Frank Sharry, director of  America’s Voice , a
Washington-based pro-immigration lobbying group.  
 The most surprising abdication is on campaign-finance
reform, an arena where McCain has been the dominant
congressional leader, of either party, for more than a decade.
As the  Supreme Court  considered a case in January that would
open the campaign floodgates to corporate and union monies,
overturning a century of precedents, including McCain’s own
efforts, the Arizona lawmaker gave a blistering floor speech
suggesting the “integrity of the electoral system was at
stake.”  
 Campaign Finance  
 The court, in a 5-4 decision, then ruled in favor of
undoing federal restrictions on corporate political spending and
many experts say the consequences will be just as dire. McCain’s
reaction was uncharacteristically muted, saying in essence the
court has spoken so there’s little that can be done.  
 Not true, as eight of the nine justices on the court said
the ruling permits total transparency; public disclosure might
at least serve as an impediment to the free flow of special-
interest money. Senators are crafting legislation now without
McCain’s involvement. Look for Republicans like Maine’s Snowe to
assume his old role.  
 Earmark Limits  
 On the nation’s pressing financial situation, McCain
remains a Johnny-One Note: end congressional earmarks, which
total $15.9 billion this year. Even if eliminated -- actually
almost all that money would be spent, just not directed by
elected politicians -- it amounts to less than 1 percent of this
year’s projected federal deficit of $1.6 trillion.  
 The sad irony here is that McCain has told friends that if
he left the Senate he would be forgotten. In the public square,
most retiring lawmakers are.  
 McCain wouldn’t be. He not only is an authentic American
hero but has played a forceful role in the country’s major
debates over the past two decades:  Iraq , campaign finance,
immigration, normalization with  Vietnam . His views still would
be solicited, his voice heard.  
 “John would still be enormously important out of the
Senate,” says his friend, former Republican Senator Warren Rudman.  
 Even if he survives this year, the old maverick would be a
lot happier warrior.  
 ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for  Washington  at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 For Related News and Information:  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Albert R. Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at  mberley@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        