-- Four Winning Stocks With More Nice Gains to Come: John Dorfman
-- John Dorfman
-- 2010-02-22T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-21/four-winning-stocks-with-more-nice-gains-to-come-john-dorfman.html

          
          
             Sanderson Farms Inc., Hasbro Inc.,
CF Industries Holdings Inc. and Ralcorp Holdings Inc. have moved
up nicely this year.  
 I think these four stocks have further to go. All of them
have valuations that seem reasonable, debt under control, and
business fundamentals that appear attractive.  
 Sanderson Farms , based in Laurel, Mississippi, is the
fourth-largest U.S. chicken producer. I purchased shares for
clients a few years back, and now I may do so again.  
 The poultry business depends substantially on the balance
between the costs of feed grain and sale prices for grown birds.
The price for  chickens  is down about 4 percent since June 2008
but the good news is that the spot price for Illinois  corn  has
fallen about 50 percent in the same period, greatly improving
that crucial balance. Sanderson shares rose 22 percent last year
and are up about 21 percent this year.  
 Sanderson  has turned a profit in each of the past three
quarters, following losses in the previous three periods. In the
fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 it earned 96 cents a share,
topping analysts’ estimates by about six cents.  
 The company has whittled its total long-term  liabilities  to
$128 million, from $248 million at the end of fiscal 2008. This
is a very good sign, in my view. Debt is now 24 percent of
equity, a strong ratio.  
 I also like the stock’s valuations. It sells for about 13
times earnings and 0.6 times revenue. However, the ratio of the
stock price to book value (corporate net worth per share) is
higher than I’d like at 2.4.  
 Chickens for Everyone  
 In 1928 a Republican Party slogan supporting the election
of  Herbert Hoover  as president said that his Republican
predecessors had engineered a period of prosperity, with “a
chicken in every pot.” As the economy strengthens in the U.S.
over the next few years, I predict chicken consumption will
rise.  
 What grain prices will do is harder to say, but I believe
the country has gotten over the idea that massive amounts of
corn should be diverted to ethanol production. That should help
Sanderson and other chicken producers.  
 Hasbro , the world’s second-largest toymaker, has advanced
about 12 percent this year. The gain came in a spurt on Feb. 8
when Hasbro announced sparkling fourth-quarter earnings. The
company reported a profit of $1.09 a share for that quarter,
while analysts had anticipated 81 cents.  
 Consistent Profits  
 Hasbro , based in Pawtucket, Rhode Island, is aiming for its
eighth consecutive year of earnings growth. And Chief Executive
Officer  Brian Goldner  predicts he will make that goal.  
 It won’t be easy, however. Last year’s results were boosted
by tie-ins with movies involving G.I. Joe and the popular
Transformers action figures.  
 Last year, Hasbro earned 25 percent on stockholders’
equity. The question is how close it can come this year to that
stellar performance. I like the stock at the present multiple of
14 times earnings, but I wouldn’t pay much more than the recent
price of $36.  
 CF Industries , based in Deerfield, Illinois, makes
fertilizer products. The company’s shares are up almost 15
percent this year. At its current price of about $104, CF is
selling for about 12 times earnings and 1.9 times revenue. In
addition, it is a takeover target as a wave of consolidation
hits the global fertilizer industry.  
 Sweetening the Deal  
 Agrium Inc. , a Canadian fertilizer producer, has been
trying to acquire CF, whose board has rebuffed the offers even
though they were supported by about 62 percent of CF’s
shareholders. Meanwhile, CF had been attempting to acquire Sioux
City, Iowa-based Terra Industries Inc., with equal lack of
success. In January, CF said it gave up on its Terra bid. This
month Terra agreed to be acquired by Norway’s Yara International
ASA.  
 Agrium has offered $45 a share in cash, plus one of its
dollar-denominated shares for each CF share. As of Feb. 19, I
estimate the value of the offer at about $7 a share above CF’s
current share price.  
 I believe Agrium may sweeten its bid one more time.  
 Ralcorp , based in St. Louis, is a mass merchandiser of
foods. It has been consistently profitable for the past decade,
with profits in a rising, though irregular, trend. The
 acquisition  of Post cereals from Kraft Foods Inc. seems to be
working out well.  
 The company also makes store-brand cereal, which has been a
good seller in a lousy economy. As the recovery continues, that
will be less of an advantage. Nevertheless, I like Ralcorp stock
at its recent price of about $67, which is less than 14 times
earnings and less than one times revenue.  
 Disclosure note: I have no long or short positions in the
stocks discussed in this week’s column.  
 ( John Dorfman , chairman of Thunderstorm Capital in Boston,
is a columnist for Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own. His firm or clients may own or trade securities
discussed in this column.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
John Dorfman at 
 jdorfman@thunderstormcapital.com .  
          
          


  


        