-- Stimulus Tab of $41,800 Waits for Wall Streeters: Kevin Hassett
-- Kevin Hassett
-- 2010-02-22T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-21/stimulus-tab-of-41-800-waits-for-wall-streeters-kevin-hassett.html

          
          
             While President  Barack Obama  goes on
about the success of his economic stimulus, the latest policy
developments suggest Democrats are finally backing away from his
radical Keynesianism.  
 Even Democrats, it seems, have concluded that the stimulus
of 2009 was a big waste of money, and that better approaches
exist that can do more and cost less.  
 The truth is, economic stimulus is like a very expensive
box of chocolates. You get a sugar high, and a caffeine rush,
but when the chocolates are gone, you have nothing but fat to
show for it. You are worse off than you were before and still
need to find real nutrition.  
 According to the latest estimate by the Congressional
Budget Office, the U.S. stimulus sugar high will cost  $862
billion  by 2019. The excessively optimistic administration
estimate is that the stimulus created 2 million jobs last year.
If we take that high number at face value -- there are plenty of
reasons not to -- and given that roughly one-quarter of the
stimulus funds have been exhausted, then each job has cost about
$100,000.  
 To put that in perspective, if instead the government had
used the stimulus to hire individuals at the going median wage
of $37,115, it could have created more than 23 million new jobs.  
 So much for the supposed Keynesian multiplier effect. From
now on, it should be called the Keynesian divisor.  
 Paying the Bill  
 Ultimately, American taxpayers are going to have to pay the
bill for the stimulus, and it is a steep one. For the average
taxpayer, the bill is $7,798.  
 Of course, the final bill will not be spread evenly across
taxpayers, because the rich pay a disproportionate share. Assume
the burden is distributed the same as the current income tax. If
your income is between $40,000 and $50,000, you will pay about
$2,600 for the stimulus. If your income is between $75,000 and
$100,000, you will pay $6,500. If you are lucky enough to have
an income of between $200,000 and $500,000, your bill will be
$41,800.  
 Small wonder that Democrats are so unpopular right now, and
that they are looking for a better way.  
 A New York Times/CBS News Poll this month  found  that only 6
percent of Americans believe that the year-old stimulus package
has created any jobs. (A remarkably patient 41 percent said it
hasn’t created jobs, but still will.) Meantime, policy makers
are still looking at a catastrophically bad  labor market  that
needs all the help it can get.  
 Brown’s Message  
 The message of Republican Senator  Scott Brown’s  victory in
Massachusetts is clear: Voters don’t want to waste our last
pennies on another expensive sugar high. They are crying out for
bipartisan support for fixes that work, at a reasonable price.  
 The good news is that even Democrats now recognize this.
There has been progress behind the scenes looking for sensible
alternatives to expense-account Keynesianism. A middle-of-the-
road consensus is beginning to form around pragmatic approaches
to the jobs crisis that cost a lot less and carry a big bang for
the buck.  
 My favorite example is a little-known program folded into
last year’s stimulus package that is targeted for a big
expansion because it actually has worked. It is based on the
observation that it is cheaper to create jobs directly.  
 The  Emergency Contingency Fund , amended to the federal
 program  called Temporary Assistance for Needy Families, provides
funding for states to temporarily cover a portion of workers’
wages in both public and private jobs. The federal program
reimburses states 80 cents for each additional dollar they spend
getting a person back to work. Over time, as the worker’s
reattachment to the labor force becomes stronger, the federal
money is taken away.  
 Private Is Best  
 As many as 29 states have or are developing employment
programs funded through this program, and some estimates show as
many as 120,000 subsidized jobs could be created, at a cost of
only $10,000 to $20,000 each. At that rate, the government could
create 2 million jobs -- the amount Obama asserts were created
by the stimulus -- for somewhere in the range of $30 billion.
And the best part is that many of these jobs will likely be in
the private sector.  
 A strong sign of how much things have changed for the
better is the focus of House Democrats on this limited but
powerful measure. A  bill  sponsored by representatives  Jim McDermott  of Washington and  Judy Chu  of California would make
funds available for an additional year.  
 Given the state of the labor market, it is hard to imagine
how any sensible person could oppose such a move. It is a shame
that such common sense was absent last year. If they are to be
more than the party of no, Republicans need to rally around the
Democrats who have shown such reserved pragmatism.  
 While they do, Obama can continue to crow about his amazing
stimulus, but fewer and fewer people will notice.  
 ( Kevin Hassett , director of economic-policy studies at the
American Enterprise Institute, is a Bloomberg News columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Kevin Hassett at   khassett@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        