-- WTO tells U.S. to cut trade barriers, improve exports
-- By  Jonathan Lynn
-- Fri May 16, 2008 5:36am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/05/16/businesspro-trade-wto-usa-dc-idUSL1613258420080516

 

 GENEVA  (Reuters) - The United States should cut barriers to 
its markets to help it tackle economic turmoil, and boost 
exports to deal with its current account deficit, the World 
Trade Organisation (WTO) said. 

  Further adjustment and reforms by the United States would 
lessen distortions in global markets and strengthen the global 
trading system, as the United States is the world's biggest 
economy and trader, it said in a trade policy review due to be 
published on June 9, a copy of which was obtained by Reuters.  "In the face of the economic uncertainty prevalent in early 
2008, U.S. welfare would be best promoted by exploiting the 
adjustment capacity of the U.S. economy and continuing to 
reduce barriers to market access and other distorting measures, 
including those that result from high levels of assistance in 
agriculture and energy," the WTO said.  U.S. exports and imports continued to expand faster than 
GDP over the past couple of years, the WTO noted.  And foreigners' willingness to invest in the United States 
has been vital in generating large capital inflows to finance 
the current account deficit.  "However the sustainability of the deficit cannot be taken 
for granted, and as such carries certain downside risks 
including an increase in protectionist sentiment," it said.  Measures to restrict trade would not be appropriate as the 
deficit reflects a gap in savings and investment, it said.  The United States may need to boost its savings rate while 
maintaining its traditional openness that allows U.S. producers 
and consumers to access foreign goods, services and capital.  "Reducing the current account deficit is also likely to 
require expanding U.S. exports, which would be facilitated by a 
more liberal trading system and stronger demand growth outside 
the United States," it said.
  OBLIGATIONS  Although the United States is a strong supporter of the 
global trading system and a comprehensive deal in the 
long-running Doha round to open up world trade, it has not 
fulfilled all its international obligations, the WTO said.  These include notifying agricultural tariff quotas and 
government procurement statistics and fully implementing WTO 
rulings on intellectual property rights and anti-dumping.  The WTO called on Washington to ensure that amendments in 
2007 by Congress to the way the Executive reviews the national 
security implications of foreign direct investment do not 
undermine predictability for foreign investors.  Looking at access to the U.S. market, the WTO noted that 
anti-dumping (AD) measures remain a key policy instrument.  As most of these measures, which set compensatory duties on 
unfairly priced imports, are imposed on intermediate goods like 
steel and chemical products, they also increase costs for U.S. 
downstream producers and consumers.  Only 0.3 percent of U.S. merchandise imports were directly 
affected by anti-dumping in 1980-2005 and the number of 
anti-dumping orders since then has fallen.  "Nevertheless it would be important to ensure that AD 
measures do not retard adjustment to changing overall 
conditions in international markets," the WTO warned.  U.S. domestic support programs, especially for agriculture 
and energy, are not targeted at trade but can affect global 
markets as the United States is among the biggest producers and 
consumers of many products, it said.  In agriculture, some programs may provide incentives that 
are inconsistent with market signals and affect trade when 
supported output reaches world markets, it said.  "The expiration of the 2002 Farm Act, and the current 
environment of high commodity prices, offers a favorable 
juncture to introduce policy change aimed at further improving 
the market orientation of the agriculture sector to the benefit 
of both consumers and taxpayers," the WTO said.  (Editing by  Stephanie Nebehay  and Stephen Nisbet)