-- Belvedere, Qimonda, Wrekin, French Statistics: Bankruptcy
-- Anthony Aarons
-- 2009-03-16T11:13:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-03-16/belvedere-qimonda-wrekin-french-statistics-bankruptcy.html

          
          
             Belvedere SA , the French vodka maker
that filed for creditor protection in July, said it will file a
recovery plan next month after notifying some bondholders their
claims won’t be considered.  
 Holders of the company’s floating-rate notes, or FRNs, will
be notified by Philippe Maitre, the creditors’ trustee, that
their claims “did not comply with applicable French law,” and
therefore wouldn’t be allowed, the company said March 14 in an e-
mailed statement.  
 Belvedere filed for bankruptcy protection on July 16 after
breaching the FRN covenant by repurchasing more of its stock than
the terms allowed. That could have enabled investors to ask for
early repayment on the 375 million euros ($477 million) in
floating-rate notes, which had been due in 2013. Creditors
refused to waive their rights and 34 percent asked to be paid
early, Belvedere Chief Executive Officer  Jacques Rouvroy  told
Bloomberg News in August.  
 Gregoire Lucas, a spokesman for the FRN bondholders,
declined to comment yesterday, saying he hadn’t seen Belvedere’s
statement.  
 The decision on the FRNs was announced during a hearing on
March 10, before the commercial tribunal in Dijon, the company
said. That day, Standard & Poor’s withdrew its D long-term
corporate  credit rating  on Belvedere, citing “the scarcity of
information on Belvedere’s safeguard proceeding and its company
financials,” as well as its D, or default, rating on the FRNs.  
 The recovery plan will be presented to the court on April
21, the statement said.  
 China’s Inspur Interested in 50% Stake in Qimonda, FTD Reports  
 China’s state-run  Inspur  computer and information
technology company is interested in acquiring a stake in  Qimonda
AG  to help the company exit bankruptcy,  Financial Times
Deutschland  reported, citing unidentified people close to the
company.  
 The Shandong-based company would acquire about 50 percent of
the company, creditors 15 percent and Portugal and the German
state of Saxony the remainder, according to a plan drafted by
 Michael Jaffe , Qimonda’s insolvency lawyer.  
 Jaffe proposed the plan in a letter to Saxony’s state
government last week, the FTD said. The proposal may not succeed
because Saxony continues to reject acquiring a stake in the
company, the newspaper said.  
 Wrekin’s Creditors Searching for $15 Million Ruby, FT Reports  
 The creditors of Wrekin Construction Co., a U.K. engineering
company that went into administration this week, are
investigating whether the firm still has an 11 million-pound ($15
million) ruby, the Financial Times reported.  
 Wrekin’s 2007 accounts show the company bought the ruby,
called the “The Gem of Tanzania,” from shareholder Tamar Group
using preference shares, the newspaper said. Wrekin’s
administrators, Ernst & Young, and the company’s 80 creditors are
trying to locate the ruby, the FT said.  
 Wrekin and Tamar Group declined to comment, the FT said.  
 JJB in Lease Negotiations Over Future of 30 Stores, Times Says  
 JJB Sports Plc , a U.K. sportswear retailer, is in
negotiations with landlords about reducing the rent for 30 of its
stores, the Sunday Times  reported , citing unnamed sources.  
 If the company can’t reduce rent, it may place the stores in
a so-called company voluntary arrangement, the newspaper said. A
JJB spokesman confirmed that the company was looking to reduce
costs, the Sunday Times said.  
 A CVA allows insolvent companies to use future profits or
the sale of assets to pay creditors over a set period of time
under the auspices of a court-appointed supervisor.  
 French Bankruptcy Filings Nearly Double From 2008, Figaro Says  
 Almost twice as many French companies filed for protection
from creditors this year from the same period last year, the
newspaper  Le Figaro  said, without citing a source for its
information.  
 Between Jan. 1 and March 9, 203 companies filed for
safeguard, reserved for distressed-yet-solvent companies, the
newspaper said, compared with 703 companies for all of 2008.  
 Meanwhile, there was a decline in creditor-protection
filings by insolvent companies, the newspaper said, crediting the
shift in favor of pre-insolvency filings to changes to the
bankruptcy law this year giving incumbent management more power.  
 Over half of the safeguard filings were by companies with
fewer than 10 employees, and the retail and transportation
sectors were the most affected, the newspaper said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anthony Aarons  at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        