-- Bocom May Raise $3.4 Billion in China Share Sale
-- Bei Hu
-- 2007-04-12T11:07:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-04-12/bocom-may-raise-3-4-billion-in-china-share-sale-update1-.html

          
          
             Bank of Communications Co. , the
nation's sixth-largest, may raise as much as $3.4 billion selling
shares in Shanghai, testing a rally that has made the nation's
banks the most expensive among  Asia 's  emerging markets .  
 Bank of Communications, known as Bocom, plans to sell 3.19
billion yuan-denominated shares, the Shanghai-based company said
in a prospectus today. The  China  Securities Regulatory Commission
will review the application on April 16.  
 The lender joins China Citic Bank Co. to take advantage of
soaring stock prices to sell shares and extend a lending boom
that helped fuel the nation's 10.7 percent economic growth last
year, the fastest in more than a decade. Banks are bolstering
finances partly to fend off foreign rivals, who in December got
access to China's $2 trillion in household deposits.  
 Since June 2005, six mainland banks have sold a combined $51
billion of IPO shares, including a $2 billion  Shanghai  offering
by Industrial Bank Co. in February. Beijing-based China Citic
Bank will hold a Hong Kong and Shanghai initial public offering
of as much as $5.4 billion, the world's second-largest stock sale
this year.  
 Shares of Chinese banks including the nation's two largest
-- Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. and Bank of China
Ltd. -- have surged since their IPOs last year, enticing smaller
competitors to follow suit. The benchmark Shanghai and Shenzhen
300 Index more than doubled in the past year.  
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , which owns 19.9 percent of Bank of
Communications, will have its ownership pared to 18.6 percent
after the share sale.  
 Bank Stock Prices  
 ``HSBC has yet to make any major changes to Bocom thus far, as
reflected in its relatively weak fee income and deposit base,''
 Dominic Chan , a Hong Kong-based analyst at CLSA Asia-Pacific
Markets, wrote in a report last month. ``The HSBC-BoCom
relationship is not unique, but a high HSBC premium is priced in.''  
 China has the most expensive bank stocks in Asia's emerging
markets, trading at about 3.2 times estimated book value in 2007,
compared with 1.7 times for peers in  India  and 1.4 times for
 Korea , according to a Morgan Stanley report on March 23.  
 Bank of Communications traded at 3.5 times estimated 2007
book value after shares surged 152 percent since its Hong Kong
IPO in June 2005, compared with 3.3 times for China Construction
Bank Corp. and 2.8 times for ICBC in  Hong Kong . So-called A
shares changed hands at a premium to Hong Kong counterparts.  
 Bank of Communications, with 2,600 outlets nationwide,
posted a 33 percent profit gain in 2006 on loan demand. The bank,
established in 1987, controlled about 4 percent of the nation's
loan and deposit market by the end of last year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Luo Jun in Shanghai  at
 jluo6@bloomberg.net 
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ben Richardson at 
 brichardson8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        