-- Siemens compliance officers knew of bribes: witness
-- By Jens Hack
-- Thu May 29, 2008 12:43am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/05/29/businesspro-siemens-trial-dc-idUSL2965441720080529

 

 MUNICH, Germany  (Reuters) - Compliance officers at German 
engineering giant Siemens ( SIEGn.DE ) and auditors at KPMG 
turned a blind eye to a system of slush funds used to pay 
bribes to win orders, a court witness said on Wednesday. 

  Heinz Keil von Jagemann, a former Siemens manager who 
admits carrying large sums in cash out of the country, said 
compliance officers had approached those responsible for the 
slush fund system after Austrian banks became suspicious.  Many of the suspect transfers made on Siemens's behalf out 
of Germany traveled through neighboring Austria first.  Jagemann, called as a witness on the second day of what 
promises to be a mammoth trial in Munich, said the two 
compliance officers, who still work at Siemens, had told the 
perpetrators: "Think of another way."  The scandal involving at least 1.3 billion euros ($2 
billion) in suspect payments, according to Siemens's own 
estimate, has also sparked investigations by the U.S. 
Department of Justice and the Securities and Exchange 
Commission.  Such probes could lead to Siemens being banned from bidding 
for certain contracts in the United States and elsewhere.  Jagemann, a former Siemens manager who is one of about 300 
suspects under investigation by Munich prosecutors, said he 
personally had carried large amounts of cash and money-transfer 
documents to Austria in heavy pilot's cases.  "Once, I nearly did my back an injury," he told the Munich 
Higher Regional Court.  Jagemann said the bribes to foreign officials -- which were 
legal in Germany until 1998 -- had amounted to up to 30 percent 
of the contract value.  By around 2001, the compliance department considered 
payments of 5 to 6 percent of the contract value to be "morally 
justified," he said.  Jagemann said that KPMG had also known of the dubious 
payments, but had taken no action. "Obviously, that made us 
feel more secure," he said.  KPMG, whose contract was recently renewed by Siemens, on 
Wednesday denied having acted improperly. "KPMG always 
performed all its duties fully in connection with the audit of 
the annual report," a KPMG spokesman told Reuters.  Siemens's house lawyers also did nothing to stop the 
corrupt practices, Jagemann said. "If the legal department had 
put on the brakes at that time, we wouldn't be sitting here 
today."  Both Jagemann and former sales manager Reinhard Siekaczek, 
the only defendant in the trial so far, said Lothar Pauly -- a 
former head of Siemens's telecoms businesses and later a senior 
manager at Deutsche Telekom ( DTEGn.DE ) -- had signed some of 
the transfer documents.  Pauly's lawyer, Kurt Kiethe, told Reuters: "It's not true 
that Mr Pauly knew about a 'slush fund system' at Siemens. Mr 
Pauly knew nothing about payments of bribes."  Pauly quit his job at Deutsche Telekom a year ago.
  SUITCASES OF INCRIMINATING DOCUMENTS  Earlier, a Munich prosecutor called as a witness told the 
court that Siekaczek had brought prosecutors two suitcases full 
of documents and composed a "list of those in the know" after 
his arrest.  "Mr Siekaczek started an avalanche," said Hildegard 
Haeumler-Hoesl.  Siemens's telecoms equipment division, most of which has 
since been divested, had annual sales of 13 billion euros and 
50,000 employees in its heyday.  The bribes it allegedly paid could have helped it to win 
contracts where it was bidding against rivals such as Cisco 
Systems Inc ( CSCO.O ), Nokia Oyj ( NOK1V.HE ) and Ericsson 
( ERICb.ST ) in countries including Nigeria, Libya and Russia.  Siekaczek, a 57-year-old former sales manager at Siemens's 
telecoms equipment division who is defending himself on 58 
charges of breach of trust, says he built the slush-fund 
network at the request of his superiors. Further charges are 
expected against others.  (Editing by  David Holmes , Paul Bolding)