-- Green's Fumble in 1-1 Tie Has England's Coach Pondering Goalkeeping Switch
-- Alastair Reed
-- 2010-06-13T07:20:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-12/robert-green-s-fumble-has-capello-mulling-goalkeeping-options-hart-james.html

          
          
             Robert Green’s  unsteady hands are
making his future as England’s goalkeeper uncertain.  
 The 30-year-old fumbled  Clint Dempsey’s  shot into England’s
goal, allowing the Americans to tie yesterday’s World Cup Group
C match 1-1. Coach  Fabio Capello  had only told Green two hours
before the match that he would be the starter in Rustenburg,
South Africa.  
 Capello has experimented with goalkeepers, rotating between
Green,  Joe Hart  and former starter  David James  in warm-up
matches for the tournament. The manager said the West Ham
goalkeeper’s mistake last night is forcing him to reconsider his
choice.  
 “We have time to speak with him,” Capello told reporters
after the game. “After that, I will decide.”  
 Green conceded four goals in the Premier League through
errors last season, more than any other goalkeeper in England’s
top division, according to data collector Opta Index.  
 England captain  Steven Gerrard  put his team ahead in the
fourth minute, toeing the ball past the U.S.’s  Tim Howard , and
his team threatened further goals before Dempsey’s 25-yard goal
in the 40th minute.  
 Capello said errors are part of the game.  
 “We have to accept the mistake of the goalkeeper, the
mistake of the referee, and we have to accept the mistake of the
forward -- this is football,” he said. “The most important
thing is the score.”  
 David James  
 James, 39, said he’s prepared to step into the role if
selected. He’s been on previous World Cup squads and has played
50 matches for the national team, 39 more than Green.  
 “You have to keep focused on playing, regardless of
whether you’re No. 1 or not, anything can happen, injuries or
whatever, so you’re geared up to play the next game until the
team’s announced,” he said in an interview. “I’m ready to come
on if needs be.”  
 The Portsmouth goalkeeper, who knows a little about costly
handling errors, said he’d speak with Green today.  
 Green buried his head in the turf after Dempsey’s shot
rolled slowly into the back of the net. After the game, unlike
several of his England teammates, he stopped to take questions
from reporters about the incident.  
 “It’s not a problem, it’s not an issue, I’ll carry on like
normal,” he said. “You make mistakes, but you’ve got to be
mentally strong. That’s the game of football.”  
 Blame the Ball  
 While Green struggled, Howard was named man of the match.
The North Brunswick, New Jersey-raised goalkeeper, who plays
with Everton in the Premier League, played the last hour of the
game with a rib injury after a collision with England striker
 Emile Heskey .  
 Howard blamed Green’s mistake on Adidas AG’s Jabulani World
Cup ball.  
 “We’ve been saying all week this ball is doing silly
things, unfortunately at this level sometimes these things are
going to happen,” he told a post-match press conference. “I
feel terrible for him. When you’re goalkeeping you have to have
broad shoulders.”  
 U.S. goal scorer Dempsey agreed. “It definitely did,” the
midfielder said when asked if the ball had played a part.  
 The match was the first time the two teams had met at a
World Cup since 1950, when the U.S. won 1-0 in what’s considered
as one of the biggest upsets in the tournament’s history.  
 Howard said the team could look forward to the rest of the
tournament now that the England match was over.  
 “We’ve talked about England for six months,” he said.
“There’s been a lot of hype and pressure and we’re just glad
we’ve put in a performance that we can be proud of.”  
 The other teams in Group C, Slovenia and Algeria, meet
today in Polokwane, South Africa. The U.S. plays Slovenia June
18, while England plays Algeria later the same day.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tariq  Panja in Rustenburg via the London newsroom at 
   tpanja@bloomberg.net ;
 Alastair Reed  in Rustenburg at 
 areed12@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        