-- Slovak Voters Oust Government as Exit Polls Point to Five-Party Coalition
-- Peter Laca
-- 2010-06-13T05:10:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-12/slovak-voters-oust-government-as-exit-polls-point-to-five-party-coalition.html

          
          
             Slovak Prime Minister  Robert Fico’s 
government failed to win a second term after voters, frustrated
with corruption and rising  debt , gave a majority to opposition
parties.  
 Four opposition parties that called for fiscal prudence may
be able to form a coalition with 79 deputies in the 150-seat
parliament, even though Fico’s Smer party won the most seats,
the statistics office in Bratislava said today with all votes
counted. The opposition parties pledged not to work with Smer in
a coalition during the campaign.  
 “The centre-right parties can form a cabinet as they’ve
cooperated before and they have program similarities, so their
coalition potential gives them a chance to create a
government,” said  Grigori Meseznikov , the head of the Institute
for Public Affairs in Bratislava. “Smer’s natural coalition
potential is effectively limited. It’s basically isolated.”  
 The next government faces a widening deficit as the
European Union struggles to contain a sovereign-debt crisis.
Slovakia’s deficit may swell to 7.4 percent of gross domestic
product this year, compared with a target of 5.5 percent, unless
the new government takes “significant” steps, according to a
survey of economists by the Club of Economic Analysts.  
 Rising Debt  
 Slovakia plans to sell as much as 8 billion euros ($9.6
billion) of debt in 2010, the most since at least 2004, after
the fiscal deficit swelled to 7.4 percent of gross domestic
product last year, raising fears that the country may slide
toward a Greek-style debt crisis. The economy shrank 4.7 percent
in 2009 and will expand 3.2 percent this year, two government
officials said on June 9, citing updated Finance Ministry
forecasts.  
 “Slovaks voiced their opinion on the direction they want
this country to take,” said SDKU election leader and likely
candidate for prime minister,  Iveta Radicova . “An alternative
to the previous government isn’t just possible, it’s a
reality.”  
 Smer, which pledged to strengthen the welfare system, took
34.8 percent of the votes, according to the statistics office.
The opposition SDKU placed second with 15.4 percent, followed by
Freedom and Solidarity with 12.1 percent, KDH with 8.5 percent,
and Most-Hid with 8.1 percent. Turnout was 59 percent, up from
55 percent in the 2006 elections.  
 ‘Fiscal Prudence’  
 “Slovaks understand that you can’t live on credit,” said
Freedom and Solidarity leader  Richard Sulik . “I hope that a
coalition of fiscal prudence will be created. I don’t see any
problem” in creating such a coalition.  
 Fico’s governing partner the Slovak National Party had 5.1
percent, while HZDS, the third ruling member led by former Prime
Minister  Vladimir Meciar , failed to break the minimum five
percent threshold needed to gain entrance to parliament.  
 The results were an “absolute success” for Smer and it is
prepared to try and form a government with another party, Fico
said. “The outcome gives us the right to accept a mandate from
the president to try to form a government,” he told reporters.  
 The government’s popularity began to slip this year as
 unemployment  rose to a five-year high of 12.97 percent and
citizens became concerned about corruption as Slovakia slipped
to 56th among 180 countries in the 2009 corruption perceptions
index compiled by Berlin-based Transparency International. The
country ranked 49th when the 45-year-old premier took power in
2006.  
 Some voters may have been put off by the nationalist tone
of Fico and the Slovak Nationalist Party, pollsters said ahead
of the vote. Fico attacked the new government of Hungary’s
decision to offer citizenship to anyone to ethnic Hungarians
outside the country.  
 That disenchantment allowed new parties such as 14-month-
old Freedom and Solidarity and the Most-Hid party to gain
strength. Freedom and Solidarity used the Internet to lure the
first generation of voters born after the fall of communism with
pledges to simplify the welfare system, cut spending and
withhold aid for debt-ridden Greece.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Peter Laca  in Prague at   placa@bloomberg.net ;
 Radoslav Tomek  in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        