-- U.S. Goalkeeper Howard Is Cleared to Play Against Slovenia After Injury
-- Christopher Elser
-- 2010-06-14T14:12:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-12/u-s-ties-with-england-1-1-in-opening-world-cup-group-c-soccer-match.html

          
          
             U.S. goalkeeper  Tim Howard  was
cleared to play in a June 18 World Cup match against Slovenia.  
 Howard doesn’t need more tests on ribs he injured two days
ago in a 1-1 draw with England, U.S. Soccer said on its Web
site. He was hurt when England striker  Emile Heskey  slid into
him while going for a loose ball in the Group C match in
Rustenburg, South Africa. Howard was treated and stayed in the
game.  
 U.S. defender  Steve Cherundolo  said it was important to
have Howard back for the game in Johannesburg against Slovenia,
which beat 10-man Algeria yesterday in the other Group C match.
Slovenia leads the group with 3 points, with the U.S. and
England tied on 1 point and goal difference. Algeria has no
points.  
 “Having an excellent keeper in a tournament like this is
essential,” Cherundolo said. “Any time you’re in a big game
like that and you get an injury, there is no chance anybody’s
taking you off that field. It speaks for Tim’s character.”  
 Howard was beaten by England captain Steven Gerrard in the
fourth minute, and was then named man of the match after holding
off the rest of the attacks. At the other end, a mistake by
goalkeeper  Robert Green  allowed a  Clint Dempsey  shot to trickle
into the net to even the match.  
 After taking on Wayne Rooney and  Frank Lampard  last weekend
with lots of attention from U.K. and U.S. media, the matches
against Slovenia and Algeria will be lower profile, U.S. coach
 Bob Bradley  said. He said he’ll look at the opposition’s style
of play, the fitness of the American players and any possible
problems with yellow cards before deciding on changes to his
team.  
 The U.S. may have to change tactics against Slovenia, he
said.  
 “They’re hard-working, they’re organized, they have the
ability to sit back a little bit more and still get you on the
counter,” Bradley said of the Slovenian squad. “The Slovenia
game may be a bit more of a chess match.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Elser  in Johannesburg at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        