-- Hollywood hits, Barbie push toy stocks higher
-- By  Justin Grant
-- Thu Jun 14, 2007 6:41pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/06/14/businesspro-toys-stocks-dc-idUSN1429930120070614

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - For toy stocks, it's looked a lot like 
Christmas all year long. 

  Hot properties such as Walt Disney Co.'s ( DIS.N ) "Cheetah 
Girls" -- along with steady nourishment from Hollywood courtesy 
of "Spider-Man 3" and "Transformers" -- have whetted investors' 
appetite for toy shares through the first half of the year.  And with the strong first-quarter performances overseas of 
Mattel Inc.'s MAT.N Barbie and Hasbro Inc.'s HAS.N Littlest 
Petshop, the world's two largest toy makers have both seen 
their shares rally, analysts told Reuters this week.  "Hasbro and Mattel are executing very, very well in the 
market right now," Piper Jaffray analyst Anthony Gikas said in 
an interview.  "They have leading market share, the category is doing well 
at retail, they're both buying back stock .... They have a lot 
of high-quality characteristics that investors are attracted to 
and I think over the long-term, these are good, high-quality 
stories," said Gikas, who has "market perform" ratings on both 
stocks.  Hasbro's shares have climbed more than 16 percent this year 
through Thursday's close, while shares of Mattel have risen 
more than 15 percent in the same period. On Thursday, Hasbro 
edged up 34 cents, or 1.09 percent, to close at $31.57, and 
Mattel rose 5 cents to $25.97, both on the New York Stock 
Exchange.  "If you look at Mattel, there's a lot of enthusiasm for a 
revitalized Barbie," said independent toy industry consultant 
Christopher Byrne.  Strong demand for Chat Divas -- dolls that move and lip 
sync to songs played on Apple Inc.'s ( AAPL.O ) iPod -- and "The 
Barbie Loves MAC" makeup collection have been the key to 
revitalizing a classic brand that had grown dormant in recent 
years, Byrne said.  "Over at Hasbro, a lot of it is on anticipation for 
'Transformers,' which I think is going to be the toy movie of 
the summer," he added.  "Transformers," director Michael Bay's updated movie take 
on the popular 1980s TV cartoon based on warring robots that 
transform into vehicles, is scheduled to hit theaters on July 
3.  Hasbro and Mattel, however, have not been the only toy 
stocks to rally in 2007.  Jakks Pacific Inc. ( JAKK.O ) is up nearly 24 percent this 
year, and LeapFrog Enterprises Inc. ( LF.N ) -- despite a wider 
first-quarter loss and tepid expectations for the new FLY 
Fusion Line -- has edged up 15 percent.  On Thursday, Jakks rose 58 cents to $27.75 on Nasdaq, and 
LeapFrog edged up 1 cent to $10.89 on the NYSE.  According to Arcadia Investment Corp. analyst John Taylor, 
Jakks' stock has climbed because of the Pokemon master toy 
license, and its fashion dolls based on the Disney Channel TV 
series "Hannah Montana" and "Cheetah Girls."  "Nintendo 7974.OS relaunched the Pokemon brand this year 
with Diamond and Pearl versions for the Nintendo DS, and that's 
been a bestseller in the video game world. The toys are doing 
well also," Taylor said.  LeapFrog, meanwhile, has been palatable to investors 
banking on a turnaround from its new management team, Taylor 
added.  "LeapFrog, I'd say, is in the domain of value investors who 
are digging in their heels," he said.
  PEERING AHEAD  After months of steady growth, there is still room to run, 
according to Wedbush Morgan Securities analyst Sean McGowan.  But McGowan cautioned that Hasbro may come back down to 
earth once "Spider-Man 3" and "Transformers" are no longer in 
cinemas.  "Based on 2007 results and the prospects for 2008, Hasbro 
might be a bit ahead of itself and all of these stocks are 
trading at higher multiples," McGowan said.  "The party may not be over, but the music is slowing down."