-- Fed sets public hearings on BofA-Countrywide deal
-- By  David Lawder
-- Thu Mar 27, 2008 4:27pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/03/27/businesspro-usa-fed-countrywide-dc-idUSN2737990120080327

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve Board on 
Thursday took the unusual step of scheduling public hearings in 
Chicago and Los Angeles next month to get comments on the pros 
and cons of Bank of America Corp's ( BAC.N ) planned $4 billion 
acquisition of mortgage giant Countrywide Financial Corp. 
CFC.N 

  The announcement comes amid high public sensitivities 
surrounding housing and mortgage markets and the effect that 
the merger might have on mortgage modifications, particularly 
in high-priced California. It also comes the day after Senator 
Christopher Dodd, the chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, 
invited regulators, including Federal Reserve Chairman Ben 
Bernanke, as well as the CEOs of JPMorgan Chase & Co. ( JPM.N ) 
and Bear Stearns Cos. BSC.N to testify at a hearing on April 
3 about JPMorgan's bid to buy Bear Stearns, which kept the 
investment bank from entering bankruptcy.  The Fed said it would extend a 90-day public comment period 
on the proposed BofA-Countrywide deal by nearly a month, until 
the close of business on April 29.  A public hearing is scheduled on April 22 at the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago's headquarters, with hearings on April 
28 and 29 at the Los Angeles Branch of the Federal Reserve Bank 
of San Francisco, the central bank said in a news release.  The Fed rarely holds public hearings on merger decisions, 
but it said the public hearings are intended to collect 
information relating to the factors the board is required to 
consider to determine whether the merger is acceptable under 
the Bank Holding Company Act.  "These factors are whether the acquiring bank holding 
company's performance of the activities can reasonably be 
expected to produce benefits to the public (such as greater 
convenience, increased competition and gains in efficiency that 
outweigh possible adverse effects (such as undue concentration 
of resources, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of 
interests and unsound banking practices)," the Fed said.  Some consumer advocacy groups have criticized Bank of 
America's response to the housing crisis, saying its balance 
sheet allowed it to do more to help troubled borrowers.  The deal would hand Bank of America a bigger segment of the 
U.S. market, creating a lender making one in four U.S. home 
loans and collecting payments on more than $1.9 trillion of 
mortgages.  (Reporting by David Lawder; Editing by  Jan Paschal )