-- Kids Toys, Pay Hikes Keep Leftists in Power: Alexandre Marinis
-- Alexandre Marinis
-- 2009-12-30T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-12-29/kids-toys-pay-hikes-keep-leftists-in-power-alexandre-marinis.html

          
          
             The ruling coalition of left-wingers
who’ve governed Chile for 20 years lost the first round of
voting for a new president earlier this month.  
 Some people might view the Concertacion party’s setback as
evidence that leftists in Latin America are beginning to lose
favor with voters.  
 That’s simply not so, especially after the global financial
crisis re-energized advocates of big government, aggressive
public spending and nationalism. Several left-wing leaders in
the region were voted into office or re-elected this year. Their
parties grew stronger politically and, in some cases, won
control of the judiciary and media.  
 The most recent example: former guerrilla  Jose Mujica  was
elected president of Uruguay in November and his left-wing
coalition, the Broad Front, won a majority of seats in the
Senate and the House.  
 Their combination of market-friendly macroeconomic policies
and social programs for the poor has been popular with voters so
far.  
 The left has won loyal friends in many ways. Increasing
wages for certain public workers by as much as 457 percent, as
Brazil’s President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  did, is one
technique. Another one is to import 124,000 toys from China
worth $1.4 million in order to sell them at a discount of 80
percent in a pre-Christmas “ socialist fair ,” as Venezuelan
President  Hugo Chavez  did.  
 The question is whether this type of thing is sustainable.
What will happen when global fiscal stimulus packages are
withdrawn, international interest rates begin rising and
distressed budgets can no longer pay for populist programs?  
 Holding Onto Power  
 It is tough to say for how long Latin America’s leftist
leaders will continue to use public resources to finance their
own private business interests while pretending that everything
they do is purely for the betterment of the have-nots.  
 A toy can certainly put a smile on the face of a slum kid
in Caracas, but it won’t lift her up out of poverty; only an
education can do that. But try getting a decent education when
textbooks focus more on the personal biography of the local
authoritarian ruler than on math or science. That’s another
tactic the left uses to keep its grip on power.  
 A moderate left-wing government, as opposed to Venezuela’s
boisterous one, can actually be good for a country. Chile, for
example, has advanced during the past two decades of left-wing
rule. The  Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development 
voted this month to make Chile its second Latin American member
after Mexico. The Paris-based organization works with
governments to promote democratic policies and economic growth.  
 Voting For Change  
 Nonetheless, Chileans might be ready for change. On Dec.
13, the first round of Chile’s presidential elections showed
conservative billionaire  Sebastian Pinera  winning 44 percent of
the vote and opening a 14 percentage point lead over leftist
runner-up  Eduardo Frei , the candidate backed by president
 Michelle Bachelet . A runoff is scheduled for Jan. 17.  
 A victory for Pinera would end Concertacion’s two decade-
long reign and restore power to supporters of the late military
dictator  Augusto Pinochet .  
 But even if Pinera prevails, it won’t be a harbinger of
what’s to come elsewhere in Latin America.  
 Ten years ago, leftist leaders ran five of Latin America’s
20 countries. Today, they rule 15 of them.  
 Evo Morales , a loyal disciple of Venezuela’s Chavez, was
re-elected president of Bolivia for another four-year term this
month and also gained a comfortable two-thirds majority support
in both houses of Congress. Earlier in 2009 leftist candidates
 Fernando Lugo  and  Mauricio Funes  won presidential elections in
Paraguay and El Salvador, respectively.  
 The electoral misfortune of the ruling coalition in Chile
is much more related to infighting and defections within
Concertacion and to Frei’s own personal shortcomings rather than
displeasure with the left. As a former president (1994-2000),
Frei left office during a recession due to the Asian financial
crisis, which left a mark on him.  
 Any doubters should check out an independent poll taken
only one week before the balloting in Chile this month: The
approval rating for departing President Bachelet’s
administration is a whopping 74 percent. The poll suggests the
left won’t be on the ropes in Latin America even if the right
wins in Chile.  
 ( Alexandre Marinis , political economist and founding
partner of Mosaico Economia Politica, is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Alexandre Marinis in Sao Paulo at 
 amarinis1@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Former guerrilla and new President of Uruguay, Jose Mujica  
                       
                         
                           Dante Fernandez/LatinContent/Getty Images 
                         
                         Uruguay's elected President Jose Mujica delivers a speech during a rally, on Dec. 8, 2009 in Montevideo. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Uruguay's elected President Jose Mujica delivers a speech during a rally, on Dec. 8, 2009 in Montevideo. Photographer: Dante Fernandez/LatinContent/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
