-- Norilsk `Distorted' Data on Pollution, Ministry Says
-- Yuriy Humber
-- 2007-09-13T16:58:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-09-13/norilsk-distorted-data-on-pollution-ministry-says-update3-.html

          
          
             OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel (GMKN) , the world's
largest nickel and palladium producer, ``distorted'' figures on
the amount of waste it dumped into rivers at its main Russian
site and may be fined, the Natural Resources Ministry said.  
 The company breached by as much as 2,400 times the permitted
level of discharge for metals and chemicals such as iron, nickel,
phosphate and chloride, and failed to meet deadlines to cut
pollution, the ministry said in an e-mailed statement today.  
 ``It's absolutely clear: The figures on the documents they
submitted and those that our tests show differ,'' ministry
spokesman Nikolai Gudkov said by phone in Moscow today. The data
used in initial checks have been ``distorted,'' he said.  
 Norilsk Nickel  said it sent ``reasoned objections'' to the
results of the investigation to the Krasnoyarsk region's branch
of the environmental inspectorate. The Moscow-based company said
in an e-mailed statement today that it expects the objections to
be taken into account as part of an ecological review.  
 Inspectors concluded after more than a month of tests that
Norilsk had failed to meet targets to cut water pollution, said
Oleg Mitvol, deputy head of the environmental inspectorate.  
 ``We're talking about fines and compensation for impact on
the environment,'' Mitvol said by phone in Moscow. The size of
any fines will be set after further study of the data, he said.  
 Modernizing Plant  
 Iron levels in the River Shchuchia, near the town of
Norilsk, exceeded accepted levels by 220 times, nickel by 630
times, and copper by 2,400 times when tested Aug. 15, Mitvol
said. The nearby Novaya Nalednaya river had 633 times the nitrate
level allowed, he said.  
 Norilsk Nickel is spending $1.25 billion on modernizing
production to cut emissions including sulfur dioxide, heavy
metals, nitrogen and carbon dioxide between 2004 and 2015.  
 Almost half of its major Russian operations are based near
Norilsk. The Siberian town of about 130,000 people located above
the Arctic Circle is one of the world's 10 most polluted places,
according to New York-based non-governmental organization the
 Blacksmith Institute .  
 Norilsk started cooperating with Blacksmith this year and
the company is ``making significant efforts to address the level
of emissions,'' the institute's inspectors said after a July
visit, according to Blacksmith's Web site.  
 ``For us, it's important that we started cooperation,'' said
Elena Kovaleva, spokeswoman for Norilsk, by phone today.  
 Evraz Group SA,  Russia 's second-largest steelmaker, was
ordered by the courts to pay fines and set up a long-term cleanup
program after a probe by the inspectorate into its Kemerovo-based
ZapSib and Novokuznetsk plants last year, Mitvol said.  
 ``Evraz went ahead with a five-year modernization program
after constructive dialog with all the parties involved,'' at a
cost of about 2 billion rubles ($80 million), Irina Kibina, a
spokeswoman for the company, said by phone in Moscow today.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Moscow at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        