-- Fremont Names Gordon Chief, Will Replace Entire Board
-- Kathleen M. Howley
-- 2007-11-12T22:03:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-11-12/fremont-names-gordon-chief-will-replace-entire-board-update4-.html

          
          
             Fremont General Corp., the lender
forced to exit the subprime mortgage business, named Stephen H. Gordon chairman and chief executive officer and said the entire
board will be replaced.  
 Gordon, a co-founder of Commercial Capital Bancorp Inc.,
vowed in an interview to consider all options to revive the
company and to tackle its regulatory issues ``head on.'' He will
take over immediately for Louis Rampino, who resigned,  Santa
Monica , California-based Fremont said today in a statement.  
 ``We're going to be exploring everything that makes sense for
the company and for shareholders overall,'' Gordon said in an
interview. He declined to say whether that included a sale, but
didn't rule it out. ``Anything that makes sense to look at, that
strengthens the company or enhances  shareholder value , is going to
be explored,'' he said.  
 Fremont shares have dropped 85 percent this year as subprime
foreclosures soared. Fremont was the country's fifth biggest
lender to consumers with poor or limited credit until regulators
forced it to stop making loans. Last month, the company broke off
talks with an investment group led by billionaire Gerald J. Ford.  
 New Team  
 Gordon was chairman and CEO of Commercial Capital,
 California 's fifth-largest savings and loan, when it was purchased
by Washington Mutual Inc. in October 2006 for almost $1 billion,
Fremont said.  
 Several of Gordon's former colleagues will join him at
Fremont. David DePillo will be Fremont's president, Richard Sanchez will become chief administration officer and Thea Stuedli
will be chief financial officer, the company said.  
 Gordon will try to turn around the company at a time when
many financial institutions are struggling amid turmoil in the
credit markets. Fremont has sold its commercial real estate
lending business and related loan portfolio and has stopped making
subprime loans.  
 ``For all intents and purposes, right now the company doesn't
have any lending functionality,'' Gordon said.  
 Banks and financial institutions are entering ``a very
challenging, very deep, very broad painful cycle,'' Gordon said.  
 As part of the change in top management none of the company's
current directors is expected to run for re-election, Fremont
said. Gordon will work with board members to nominate replacements
to be voted on at the company's annual shareholder meeting in
January, Fremont said, without specifying a date.  
 Fremont fell 1 cent to $2.43 in  New York  Stock Exchange
composite trading. A year ago the shares were trading at about $17
each and four years ago they were almost $31.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Louis in  Chicago  at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen M. Howley in  Boston  at 
 kmhowley@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at  at  robprag@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        