-- Rosneft May Sell Shares to Reduce Debt, Swap Stock
-- Greg Walters
-- 2007-11-12T18:57:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-11-12/rosneft-may-sell-shares-to-reduce-debt-swap-stock-update1-.html

          
          
             OAO Rosneft (ROSN) , Russia's state oil
company, may sell shares to pay off the debt it amassed to
acquire most of the assets of bankrupt OAO Yukos Oil Co., Chief
Executive Officer Sergei Bogdanchikov said.  
 Rosneft bought 9.4 percent of its own stock at a Yukos
auction this year and plans to swap most of the shares for
assets, Bogdanchikov said in an interview in Rome today. A
smaller part may be sold for cash or be used to back a
convertible bond sale, Bogdanchikov said.  
 ``We may sell a minority of these shares, the majority will
go to a swap,'' Bogdanchikov said, adding that the company would
only sell shares if it feels the stock is properly valued.
``We're not going to sell our shares at just any price,''
Bogdanchikov said.  
 State-run Rosneft spent $27 billion buying Yukos assets at
auctions this year. Yukos, once  Russia 's largest company by
market value, was dismantled after receiving more than $30
billion in tax claims.  
 Rosneft's debt currently stands at about $24.6 billion,
Bogdanchikov said. The company will seek to pay down debt
primarily through earnings from operations.  
 Rosneft may sell ruble bonds by the beginning of next year
or eurobonds as early as the end of this year to help restructure
its debt, Bogdanchikov said, without saying how much in bonds the
company could sell. Rosneft is also preparing for the sale of
``non-core'' assets.  
 Rosneft is already in negotiations about swapping some of
the shares for assets, Bogdanchikov said, without naming its
negotiating partners.  
 ``Foreign assets would be preferable, but I don't exclude
Russian ones,'' he said.  
 ``We expect to lower our debt level by 2010 to roughly the
level of ebitda,'' Bogdanchikov said, referring to earnings
before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Walters in  Rome  
 gwalters1@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        