-- Dusa Says Court Lifts Sales Ban on Generic Nicomide
-- Susan Decker
-- 2007-03-07T21:31:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-03-07/dusa-says-court-lifts-sales-ban-on-generic-nicomide-update4-.html

          
          
             Dusa Pharmaceuticals USA said a
federal judge lifted a ban on sales of a generic version of the
acne treatment Nicomide by River's Edge Pharmaceuticals LLC.
Dusa's shares fell 10 percent.  
 River's Edge lawyer Diane Stolbach said the Suwanee,
Georgia-based company plans to begin selling generic Nicomide
immediately. Dusa, based in Wilmington,  Massachusetts , said it
will pursue patent-infringement claims against River's Edge.  
 U.S. District Judge Stanley Chesler in  Newark , New Jersey,
imposed the ban in May after Dusa sued River's Edge. He lifted
the order yesterday after finding that there was ``a substantial
question of validity'' regarding Dusa's patent and the company
was unlikely to win at trial on the infringement claims.  
 Chesler's decision was based in part on a review by the
U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, rejected the patent in a
preliminary finding. Stolbach, of Kraemer, Burns, Mytelka,
Lovell & Kulka in Springfield, New Jersey, said River's Edge was
pleased by the ruling.  
 ``It was made on a richer record than the initial decision
by the judge last May,'' she said. ``It's going to give the
consumer an immediate choice.''  
 The unit that markets Nicomide generated $6.5 million in
sales from March 10, when it bought closely held Sirius
Laboratories Inc., to Sept. 30, Dusa said in a regulatory
filing. Most of the revenue was from Nicomide, the company said.
Dusa reported total sales of $17.4 million for the period.  
 Shares of Dusa fell 38 cents to $3.40 in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading of 2.6 million, six times the three-month daily
average. The stock has fallen 51 percent in the past year,
valuing the company at $66.2 million.  
 The case is Dusa Pharmaceuticals Inc. v. River's Edge
Pharmaceuticals LLC, 06cv1843, U.S. District Court for the
District of New Jersey.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in  Washington  at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick Oster at   poster@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        