-- GE's NBC Universal, Disney Sued Over Brake Patents
-- Phil Milford
-- 2007-03-07T01:03:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-03-07/ge-s-nbc-universal-disney-sued-over-brake-patents-update3-.html

          
          
             General Electric Co. (GE) 's NBC Universal
Inc., Walt Disney Co. and three other U.S. theme-parks operators
were sued for infringement of patents on magnetic brakes used on
roller coasters.  
 Safety Braking Corp., based in  Newport Beach , California,
claims the companies infringed patents won in 1994 and 2003. The
defendants include Busch Entertainment Corp., Six Flags Inc. and
 Cedar Fair LP. (FUN)   
 Safety Braking holds exclusive licenses to the patents, one
from Magnetar Technologies Corp., based in Seal Beach,
California, and the other from G&T Conveyor Co., based in
Tavares, Florida. The three companies asked for a jury trial, an
order to stop any infringement and royalties in the complaint,
filed March 1 in federal court in Wilmington, Delaware.  
 Parks mentioned in the complaint include  Universal Studios 
in Hollywood, California; Walt Disney World in Orlando, Florida;
Busch Gardens in Williamsburg, Virginia; Sesame Place in
Langhorne, Pennsylvania; Paramount King's Island in Mason, Ohio;
and Six Flags Darien Lake, New York.  
 Wendy Goldberg, a Six Flags spokeswoman in New York, said
the company won't comment on the lawsuit. NBC Universal
spokeswoman Cindy Gardner also declined to comment and Michelle Bergman of Burbank, California-based Disney said company
executives weren't available to comment.  
 Anheuser-Busch Cos. spokeswoman Maureen Roth and Cedar Fair
spokeswoman Stacy Frole didn't return phone messages.  
 Shares of Fairfield, Connecticut-based General Electric
rose 17 cents to $34.72 in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading at 4:01 p.m. Disney rose 65 cents to $34.37 and Six
Flags rose 20 cents to $6.01.  
 The case is: Safety Braking Corp. v. Six Flags, Inc., et
al, 07CV127, U.S. District Court,  Delaware  (Wilmington).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick Oster at   poster@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        