-- Fertility industry booms online
-- By  Sue Zeidler
-- Sat Nov 25, 2006 10:52am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/25/businesspro-column-pluggedin-dc-idUSN2444478620061125

 

 LOS ANGELES  (Reuters) - More and more people have literally 
found life on the Internet as the estimated $3 billion 
fertility industry moves increasingly online. 

  But as with all online commercial ventures, shopping on the 
Web can carry risks.  In this case, the Internet may provide consumers -- often 
people desperate to have a child -- a faster and more discreet 
way to find egg or sperm donors. But it can also lead to lost 
money and broken dreams, say fertility experts.  "It's not surprising that much of this business is 
migrating into Cyberspace. Most people don't mind buying a 
Lands' End item at the store, but it's awkward to buy eggs in 
public," said Professor Debora Spar of Harvard Business School, 
an advocate for regulation of the U.S. fertility industry.  While procuring an egg online still involves more than 
simply clicking on a shopping cart, says Spar, many people do 
not realize all the steps and attention required to adequately 
match, screen and coordinate recipients with donors.  Other experts say hopeful recipients may be asked by less 
reputable egg donor sites to pay large, nonrefundable sums 
upfront to see profiles, or be made to wait for months for 
donors that never materialize.  The cost of a donated egg has soared from about $2,500 a 
few years ago to as much as $35,000 in some cases as lack of 
regulatory oversight has enabled a new breed of marketers 
called "egg hunters" to act as Internet brokers between 
recipients and donors, said Dr. Drew Moffitt, co-medical 
director of the Arizona Reproductive Medicine Specialists, an 
infertility practice.  Indeed, a random Google search of the phrase "egg donor" 
called up nearly 1.2 million links. Some proclaimed things like 
"Hot & Smart Egg Donors," while others bore ads aimed at 
students by offering sums like $7,000 for eggs to pay for 
books, college and "elective" surgery.  "The introduction of the egg hunters has been one of the 
things that has led to the escalation of fees. The real loser 
in this whole game winds up being the recipient," said Moffitt.  Experts say women should also be wary of big payoffs that 
often blind them to the realities and risks of being a donor, 
which can be a time-consuming and invasive process. Some may 
also later regret that another woman is raising children they 
helped to create, they said.  "I am shocked because every time I go online, there are 
another five egg donor agencies, promising things like lots of 
instant money and even plastic surgery in exchange for eggs," 
said Shelley Smith, director of Los Angeles-based The Egg Donor 
Program, established in 1992.  To be sure, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration does 
regulate the handling of any human tissue, while two 
professional groups; the American Society of Reproductive 
Medicine (www.asrm.org) and the Society for Assisted 
Reproductive Technologies (www.sart.org) provide standards for 
the practice of reproductive medicine. But Moffitt said many of 
these so-called egg hunters are usually not SART-certified.  "As far as the Internet is concerned, the good news is that 
we can work with couples from as far away as Australia and 
allow them instant access to hundreds of donors," Smith said.  "But the bad news is that it objectifies the donors and 
takes away the human contact people should feel when they are 
building their families. It's not like buying a car from a 
catalog," she said.  The egg donation process at certified centers takes various 
steps. The potential recipient and the sperm of the would-be 
father are tested to make sure a pregnancy is viable.  Donors are screened psychologically and for infectious 
diseases and take hormones to induce the production of several 
eggs, while the recipient takes hormones to get her menstrual 
cycle in sync with the donor's.  The recipient undergoes anesthesia when eggs are retrieved 
and then prepared for fertilization in a lab. Two to three days 
after they are fertilized, the embryos are ready to be 
transferred to the recipient's uterus.  Smith said her program usually takes two to three months, 
starting with a consultation with the recipients, who then 
select a donor with the help of a coordinator. The $5,550 fee 
covers attorneys, insurance and meetings with a licensed 
geneticist.  Smith said some red flags to watch for when searching egg 
donor sites is whether or not they have a post office box, 
carry liability insurance or have licensed practitioners.  "There are Web sites built by people who are profiting from 
the desperation of infertile couples and who walk away in the 
middle of the cycle," she said, adding that she knows of 
couples who have lost almost $25,000 in some cases.  She also warned of the bait-and-switch tactic used by sites 
which often post a beautiful egg donor who in fact is no longer 
donating eggs despite their claims to the contrary.  "It's absurd that we have this business involving the 
creation of life and it's completely unregulated," said 
Harvard's Spar, author of "The Baby Business: How Money Science 
and Politics Drive the Commerce of Conception." The book, she 
says, is an argument for regulation of the industry.  "While most people tied to these sites are from the medical 
industry, there are some bad players, which is why I argue that 
regulation is in the best interest of all players," she said.