-- Do the housing loan shuffle
-- By  Linda Stern
-- Sat Nov 25, 2006 10:24am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/25/businesspro-column-finance-dc-idUSN15253920061125

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - Here's an uncomfortable housing 
scenario that's getting more common in this soft market: You 
put in a contract on a new house. You can't sell your old 
house. The sellers are getting pushy. 

  What are you going to do?  It's a fact. More homeowners are singing a "stuck in the 
middle with you" duet with their real estate agents. It's 
scary, because you can end up facing a situation with two 
houses, three loans and financial ruin. Or, watching the home 
you want slip away.  "These bridging homeowners are in nervous circumstances," 
says Eric Cunliffe, of realestate.com, a Web site that seeks to 
generate leads for real estate agents. "They should have one 
goal: sell that home as fast as they can."  It may help to know that even in a post-bubble real estate 
market, it doesn't take forever to sell a house.  In many markets, houses are taking almost twice as long to 
sell as they did a year ago, but they are still selling in just 
a few months. In California, where the market can seesaw 
erratically, houses are selling in 54 days instead of the 30 
they were turning over in last year. In popular Monterey 
County, they are closing in 106 days from when they are placed 
on the market. In slow-market Columbus, Ohio, houses are 
sitting for fewer than 100 days.  So, avoid the urge to panic, and consider these other moves 
if you're one of those homeowners who feels stuck in the 
middle. Take it from someone who was once there, (I will spare 
you the ugly details) you will eventually get to the other 
side.  -- Write a waiting budget. Calculate the monthly cost of 
what you're giving up by carrying your old home for a while. 
That would include payments for taxes, insurance, utilities and 
the interest portion of your monthly mortgage payment. Once you 
have a dollar figure in mind, you'll know how much of an actual 
strain it will be to have both houses for a while. You will 
know whether it's worth dropping the price to get out of the 
house fast.  -- Use your financing to buy some breathing room. Sign up 
for the biggest possible loan you can get on your new home, as 
rates are comparatively low. That will free you from having to 
get a specific price for the house you want to sell. Even if 
you end up getting less than you expected, you still won't fall 
short on your downpayment for your next house. If, after you've 
settled on the house you are selling, you want to cut your 
debt, you can use extra money from the sale of your first house 
to pay down your second home loan, either all at once or 
monthly.  There are other short-term financing solutions. If you have 
sufficient home equity and a home equity line of credit on your 
first home, you can write yourself a check for the downpayment 
on your second loan. But then you'll have to make three loan 
payments for a while: the one on your old mortgage, the one on 
your new mortgage, and the one on your home equity line.  You can also get a bridge loan against the equity in your 
first home to pay for the move-in costs of your second home, 
from a lender willing to wait for his money until the first 
home settles. But they usually last only six months, and they 
can be costly and nerve racking.  -- Think of alternatives. You can keep both houses for a 
while and rent out the one you're vacating, but then you've got 
to be ready to put in the time and effort to be a landlord. You 
could drop the price of the house you're selling to a 
desperation level, just to get it to move fast. But you might 
regret that later when you see more patient homeowners getting 
more for their houses.  -- Take the emotions out of it. Cunliffe tells homeowners 
to back away from the feelings they have about selling a house 
that isn't selling easily. It's a business deal. The market 
isn't what it was a year ago, so don't beat yourself up if you 
have to take less money. Once you've completed both halves of 
your move, you'll forget the pain.  -- Be ready to walk away if the situation demands it. If 
your closing date on the new home is approaching and you know 
you absolutely, positively can't afford both, approach the 
sellers with a request for a delay. If that doesn't work, 
prepare yourself to lose the new house. That may be hard to 
take, but there are other houses out there. And, it's better 
than losing your shirt.  -- Take the personality out of your house, too: A home 
that's been decluttered and had its rooms painted a neutral 
ivory shade will move faster than one that's adorned with all 
of your knickknacks, regardless of how wonderful they are.  Conventional wisdom holds that a home will sell faster and 
for more money if it has curb appeal, new carpeting, a good 
looking entryway, bread baking in the oven, and closets that 
are almost empty. Don't go too far, though: If you move out of 
your house before you sell it, make sure you leave enough 
furniture behind so prospective buyers can visualize it as a 
place that's lived in.  -- Price it right. Even during the boom, real estate agents 
were telling customers to low-ball the prices of their homes; 
the ensuing bidding wars would ensure they'd get enough cash 
out of it anyway. Now they're telling people to low-ball their 
homes to make sure they sell rapidly in this environment.  "Don't go the death-by-1,000-cuts route" of testing a high 
price and then lowering it every month, says Cunliffe. "Buyers 
are watching properties and they'll just try to negotiate the 
price down even further."  (Linda Stern is a freelance writer. Any opinions in the 
column  are solely those of Ms. Stern. You can e-mail her at  lindastern(at)aol.com.)