-- Shoppers go online for T.M.X. Elmo, PS3
-- 
-- Sat Nov 25, 2006 6:26pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/25/businesspro-retail-holiday-online-dc-idUSN2539028920061125

 

 LOS ANGELES  (Reuters) - Bargain hunters tracking down 
sought-after toys and electronics flocked to the Web ahead of 
"Cyber Monday," the unofficial start of the online holiday 
shopping season, three Internet sites said on Saturday. 

  Web auctioneer eBay Inc. ( EBAY.O ) and the comparison site 
Shopping.com said this season's hottest toy, T.M.X. Elmo, was 
among their most searched-for items on "Black Friday" -- 
retail's first holiday shopping day.  Meanwhile, PriceGrabber.com said that visits to merchants 
in its toy category rose 225 percent over last year for the 
November period through Black Friday.  Shopping.com, which allows consumers to compare deals from 
a variety of retailers, said it saw a 40-percent jump in the 
amount of traffic on its site that leads to its merchants for 
November through Black Friday.  For rival PriceGrabber.com, which is owned by Experian 
( EXPN.L ), total year-over-year traffic growth for the same 
period was 45 percent.  The most popular e-commerce site, eBay reported that 2,537 
T.M.X. Elmos -- Mattel's MAT.N popular but hard-to-find toy 
-- were sold on Black Friday for an average price of $70.10.  The toy, eBay's No. 1 searched-for item, retails at 
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. ( WMT.N ) for $39.97 and can be found on 
Shopping.com for as much as $150.  Fruitcakes generated significantly less enthusiasm on eBay. 
Just 13 were sold on Friday for an average price of $22.96.  Other popular items on eBay included Sony's ( 6758.T ) 
( SNE.N ) PlayStation 3 -- 14,675 have been sold on eBay for an 
average price of $1,186.39 from November 17 to November 24 -- 
and the Nintendo 7974.OS Wii. Since that product debuted on 
November 19, 26,708 have been sold for an average price of 
$412.53.  While T.M.X. Elmo was Shopping.com's most popular toy in 
terms of searches, television sets were the most searched-for 
item overall.
  ONLINE MORE LIKE OFFLINE  Shopping.com Chief Executive Josh Silverman said the 
highest-growth categories in November so far were household 
goods and clothing, not electronics, which include such hot 
items as plasma televisions, digital cameras and game consoles.  "Where three or four years ago it was younger males buying 
electronics, now more than half of our shoppers are women and 
the most popular categories online look a whole lot like the 
most popular categories offline," Silverman said.  In Shopping.com's kids and family category, traffic for 
November to date rose 70 percent compared to last year. It 
jumped 51 percent in home and garden and 47 percent in clothes 
and accessories.  Electronics saw 16-percent year-over-year growth, which 
Silverman said was more in line with typical trends.  Shopping.com, which is owned by eBay, said that the second 
Monday of December tends to be its heaviest shopping day in 
terms of sales. Last year, the company saw its greatest number 
of visitors to its site on Cyber Monday, but the most sales on 
Monday, December 12.  On Thanksgiving Day and Black Friday, higher-than-expected 
traffic at online retailer Amazon.com ( AMZN.O ) and Wal-Mart.com 
( WMT.N ) led to temporary problems accessing both sites.