-- Heavy store traffic doesn't mean huge sales
-- By  Chelsea Emery
-- Sat Nov 25, 2006 2:45pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/25/businesspro-retail-holiday-outlook-dc-idUSN2535647820061125

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Consumers packed malls and store 
parking lots over the U.S. Thanksgiving holiday weekend, 
leading many to expect this year's holiday sales figures could 
blow away expectations and lift retail stocks. 

  But early anecdotal data suggest heavy discounting drove 
demand. If that's true, sales gains will likely be less than 
last year and retail stocks could tread water for the remainder 
of the year.  "You already know it's a high traffic day," said Laura 
Richardson, a consumer analyst at BB&T Capital Markets. "What 
I'm looking at is traffic relative to what I'm used to seeing 
and the promotional efforts retailers are making. A lot of 
companies I follow are cutting (prices) more than last year and 
not getting great traffic. That's not a great sign for sales or 
profits."  Early-bird "doorbuster" promotions had customers lining up 
outside stores like electronics retailer Best Buy Co. Inc. 
( BBY.N ) before dawn on Friday. But the deals that attracted 
them, like Panasonic Plasma high-definition televisions for 
less than $1,000, were just the same tactics retailers have 
used the last couple of years, said Michael McNamara, vice 
president of research and analysis for MasterCard's 
SpendingPulse.  Retailers "see traffic like this every year," McNamara 
said, adding that he was surprised by the amount of buzz 
generated by photos showing consumers pushing and shoving for 
the season's hot toys and electronic gadgets.  Indeed, Wal-Mart Stores Inc. ( WMT.N ) predicted a rare 
decline in monthly sales on Saturday, even as U.S. bargain 
hunters jammed stores at the start of the holiday season.  The world's biggest retailer estimated that November sales 
fell 0.1 percent at its U.S. stores open at least a year -- a 
closely watched retail measure known as same-store sales.  The company had cut prices on some popular toys and other 
holiday items as early as October, eager to revive growth after 
back-to-back months of disappointing sales in September and 
October, but Saturday's report suggested that the early 
discounts were not enough to reverse the poor sales trend.  The National Retail Federation trade group said on Saturday 
it was leaving its holiday sales growth prediction unchanged at 
5 percent, down from last year's 6.1 percent growth. The 
group's spokesman Scott Krugman said there was nothing in 
Friday's sales activity to change its forecast.  Overall, sales momentum was a little slower heading into 
2006 season. Last year, the United States was showing 
year-over-year growth of 7 to 10 percent, excluding auto sales, 
heading into the holiday season. This year is a different 
story, with growth rates of 2 to 5 percent.
  HUGE TRAFFIC  Still, there's no denying that store traffic trounced many 
retailers' expectations.  Chelsea Property Group Inc. opened 25 of its 36 outlet 
centers at midnight after Thanksgiving. Lines formed at the 
most popular stores including Gap Inc.'s ( GPS.N ) Banana 
Republic and Gap, as well as Coach Inc.'s ( COH.N ) outlet stores 
hours before the doors swung open, said representative Michele 
Rothstein.  "Because of so much excitement, we had people show up at 
centers we didn't even open (at midnight)," Rothstein said. "We 
will have to look at this (concept) across the board because it 
appears that the consumer has really taken to this concept of 
the early open."  She said it was too early to evaluate sales, but Chelsea 
Property Group, which is a division of Simon Property Group 
Inc. ( SPG.N ), suspected that higher traffic from the year 
before also meant higher sales.  "I was blown away," said Beth Ann Schroeder, Disney Store 
( PLCE.O ) division manager for the Northern New Jersey and New 
York area. "I think sales were higher and traffic was higher. 
The two definitely go together."  She said demand was particularly strong for the promotional 
toys such as items related to the Disney animated movie "Cars" 
and the Barbie 12 Dancing Princesses line.  (With reporting by Emily Kaiser in Chicago)