-- Manhattan Apartment Vacancies Increase for the First Time Since November
-- Oshrat Carmiel
-- 2010-09-15T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-15/manhattan-apartment-vacancies-increase-for-the-first-time-since-november.html

          
          
             Manhattan’s apartment vacancy rate
climbed in August for the first time in nine months as New York
unemployment exceeded 9 percent and landlords made fewer rent
concessions, broker  CitiHabitats  said.  
 Rental vacancies climbed to 1.1 percent from 0.88 percent
in July, New York-based CitiHabitats said today in its monthly
rental report. The rate, which had declined each month since
November, is the highest since April, when it was 1.23 percent.  
 Vacancies probably were boosted by a decline in rent breaks
and little improvement in New York City’s unemployment rate,
CitiHabitats said. The city’s jobless rate was 9.4 percent in
July, the latest month for which figures are available, compared
with 9.5 percent in June, according to the New York State
 Department of Labor .  
 “There is conflicting news out there on the economy,”
CitiHabitats President  Gary Malin  said in an interview. “Every
day you hear something different.”  
 The brokerage bases its estimates on vacancies at more than
300 “bellwether buildings” across 11 Manhattan neighborhoods,
covering about 52,000 apartments, said Daniel Charles, a
spokesman for  CitiHabitats . The buildings range from walk-ups to
high-rises and include properties with and without doormen, he
said.  
 Rents at Manhattan studio and one-bedroom apartments were
little changed from July, averaging $1,821 and $2,487 in August.
Two-bedroom rents climbed 1 percent to $3,450, and three-bedroom
rents fell 1 percent to $4,590, according to the report.  
 Twenty percent of rental transactions carried a landlord-
sponsored concession, such as a month’s free rent or payment of
broker’s fees, Malin said. Those concessions were offered mostly
at new buildings, he said. In June, 28 percent of CitiHabitats
deals came with landlord incentives.  
 CitiHabitats based its rental estimate report on more than
1,400 lease deals the company handled in August, Malin said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        