-- Lehman Plans ‘Important’ Real Estate Sales in 2011
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2010-12-30T17:47:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-15/lehman-defies-bankruptcy-to-be-a-business-with-billions-in-cash-property.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  is
planning “important” real estate sales in the first half of
2011 as values for its properties rise after the firm’s two
years in bankruptcy, Chief Executive Officer  Bryan Marsal  said.  “We have some strategic projects involving some very high-
quality assets that we hope to be bringing to an attractive
market,” Marsal said in an e-mail, declining to name buildings
being considered for sale.  Lehman, once the fourth-largest investment bank, listed
real estate assets of $23 billion the day before its Sept. 15,
2008, bankruptcy, the largest in U.S. history. Its properties
had a market value of about $14 billion nine months later,
Lehman said in court papers.  Marsal won approval from Lehman creditors to manage
illiquid assets for as long as five years, investing in them
with the hope of recovering some of their value if prices rose.  “Real estate values continue to strengthen and it makes
much more sense to look at a sale or liquidation of assets,” he
said. “Values are growing attractive for well managed
multifamily or commercial properties.”  Lehman buildings that have been renovated include the
International Toy Center at 200 Fifth Avenue in Manhattan. An
office building on East Main Street in Stamford, Connecticut
will be revamped, Lehman has said.  Archstone Restructuring  The defunct firm this month completed a restructuring of
apartment-complex owner Archstone, its largest real estate
asset, by finishing the conversion of $5.4 billion of debt to
equity. Formerly Archstone Smith, it may sell stock to the
public, the unit’s CEO,  Scot Sellers , said last month at a real
estate conference.  Archstone, which Lehman acquired in a $22 billion leveraged
buyout, has ownership interests in hundreds of apartment
developments from Washington and New York to Los Angeles and San
Francisco.  Distressed ventures financed by Lehman before its failure
range from Hawaii’s 463-room  Ritz-Carlton Kapalua  resort, to a
site with a boarded-up hospital building in Oakland, California,
according to a court filing.  Lehman foundered because of risky real estate bets and too
much debt, which it tried to hide from investors, according to a
report by examiner  Anton Valukas . Some of its properties are
pledged to investors as backing for securities, according to
court filings.  Competing Proposals  Marsal’s plans for Lehman have drawn rival proposals. Ten
creditors including New York-based hedge fund Paulson & Co. and
the California Public Employees’ Retirement System filed a
competing payout plan this month that they said would spread an
estimated $57.5 billion more equally among creditors.  Marsal said in September he aimed to raise $57.5 billion
for creditors in the next five years, cutting claims against
those funds to about $365 billion.  Lehman’s creditors include  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. ,  UBS
AG , the New York Giants and Abu Dhabi Investment Authority as
well as individuals who hold Lehman bonds.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Linda Sandler  in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 