-- N.Y. Senate Leader Espada Charged With Embezzling From Health Clinics
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2010-12-15T21:19:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-15/new-york-senate-majority-leader-espada-loses-democratic-primary-to-rivera.html
Pedro Espada Jr. , the New York state
Senate’s Democratic majority leader, was indicted with his son
on charges of embezzling more than $500,000 from nonprofit
health-care clinics in the Bronx section of New York City.  From 2005 through 2009, Espada, 57, and  Pedro Gautier Espada , 37, abused their positions at Soundview Healthcare
Center in the Bronx, which gets more than $1 million a year in
federal funding, according to U.S. Attorney  Loretta Lynch  in
Brooklyn, where the case was filed in federal court.  New York Attorney General  Andrew Cuomo , in a conference
call with reporters yesterday, called Espada’s case “one of the
more outrageous abuses of public office.” Cuomo, a Democrat who
will become governor in January, said he couldn’t leave the
attorney general’s office “on a better note.”  “He was looting Soundview to pay for a lavish lifestyle,”
Cuomo said. “It was really an obnoxious abuse of the
taxpayer.”  Cuomo in April accused Espada in a civil lawsuit of taking
$14 million over five years from his Bronx health clinics. In
September, Espada was defeated in the Democratic primary for his
Bronx seat.  Espada and his son appeared today in federal court in
Brooklyn, where U.S. Magistrate Judge  Steven Gold  freed each man
on $750,000 bail. Their lawyers entered not-guilty pleas on
their clients’ behalf. Their next court appearance is scheduled
for Jan. 7.  ‘Complete Vindication’  “I look forward to a full and complete vindication in
court,” the elder Espada said outside the courthouse today after
his appearance.  Russell M. Gioiella , a lawyer for Espada’s son, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment yesterday.  “Today is a sad day for Soundview and a sad day for the
Espada family,” Espada’s lawyer,  Susan R. Necheles  of
Manhattan, said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. “Senator
Espada and his son deny any wrongdoing and we intend to fight
the charges in court.”  The Espadas are each charged with four counts of
embezzlement and one count of conspiracy. Each embezzlement
count carries a maximum sentence of 10 years’ imprisonment. The
conspiracy count brings as many as five years.  “The indictment alleges that funds that could and should
have been applied to purchase medical equipment and enhance
health-care services for an historically under-served population
were diverted by the defendants for their personal use,” Lynch
said yesterday in a statement.  Earlier Suit  In Cuomo’s earlier lawsuit, he claimed that Espada charged
the clinics for $20,000 in takeout sushi dinners and billed them
for $250,000 in personal expenses. The clinics spent more than
$100,000 on campaign literature for Espada’s 2008 Senate bid,
Cuomo said.  Cuomo also sued Espada a second time, saying he cheated
clinic workers by designating them as “trainees” to avoid
minimum-wage laws.  Espada called the civil charges “political payback” for
his temporary defection to the Republicans last year, which
resulted in a monthlong Senate deadlock. Governor  David Paterson , a Democrat, appointed  Richard Ravitch  as lieutenant
governor, giving him the tie-breaking vote in the Senate. That
brought Espada back to the Democratic caucus, which then made
him majority leader.  “This case predated anything having to do with the Senate
coup with Mr. Espada,” Cuomo said yesterday.  The case is U.S. v. Espada, 10-cr-985, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thom Weidlich  in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 