-- U.S. Air Force chief foresees mixed tanker fleet
-- By  Jim Wolf
-- Wed Feb 21, 2007 10:26pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/02/22/businesspro-tankers-usa-airforce-dc-idUSN2135883720070222

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - The U.S. Air Force likely would seek 
to buy refueling planes from both Boeing Co. ( BA.N ) and a rival 
transatlantic team led by Northrop Grumman Corp. ( NOC.N ), the 
top Air Force general said Wednesday. 


  Boeing is vying with the team of Northrop and Airbus parent 
EADS ( EAD.PA ) to supply 179 tanker planes, valued at about $40 
billion, in the first phase of a fleet-renewal program expected 
to be worth more than $100 billion over more than 30 years.  "I think down the road you'll see us go to a mixed fleet," 
Gen. Michael Moseley, the Air Force chief of staff, told a 
briefing hosted by the State Department's Foreign Press Center 
in New York and also videoconferenced to reporters in 
Washington.  This was because there was "some utility" to having larger 
and smaller tankers, just as the current fleet is made up of 
bigger KC-10 and smaller KC-135 models, he said.  The prospect of a mixed fleet is good news for Los 
Angeles-based Northrop, which had threatened to shun the 
competition until this month for fear it was skewed to favor 
Chicago-based Boeing.  The Northrop team is offering a modified Airbus A330 
airliner, which is bigger and expected to be pricier than the 
Boeing candidate, a modified 767 passenger jet.  Moseley said the Air Force may need as much as another $20 
billion a year for at least the coming five years to replace 
aging aircraft fast enough to keep unit costs affordable.  "It's looking like (the additional fund need) could be $20 
billion a year through the FYDP," he said, referring to the 
Pentagon's Future Years Defense Plan that projects spending 
through 2013.  At issue is the total the Air Force thinks it would be 
short to meet modernization goals even if it gets the $110.7 
billion sought by U.S. President George Bush for fiscal 2008, 
which starts October 1.  The tanker replacement program is the Air Force's No. 1 
acquisition priority. It has been dragged out for years since a 
procurement scandal killed a $23.5 billion Air Force 
sole-source plan to lease and buy 100 Boeing KC-767s.  The contract for the first phase is to be awarded by late 
summer, to be followed by a competition for another batch of 
180 to 200 planes, Moseley said.  "So there will be a continual set of opportunities for both 
companies to compete," he said, adding that the Air Force, in 
making its choice, would focus on the future tankers' 
"lifecycle" costs .  "Lifecycle cost has to be as low as we can get it with the 
most capable airplane we can get," he said.