-- Australian Economy Booms, Drives Currency Near Dollar Parity
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2010-10-07T03:09:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-09/australian-employers-hiring-for-august-exceeds-estimates-currency-gains.html
Australian  employers  in September
added the most workers in eight months, driving the country’s
currency toward a record and bolstering the case for the central
bank to resume raising interest rates.  The number of people employed rose 49,500 from August, the
seventh straight gain, the statistics bureau said in Sydney
today. The figure was more than double the median  estimate  of a
20,000 increase in a Bloomberg News survey of 25 economists. The
 jobless   rate  held at 5.1 percent.  Economic growth  that the International Monetary Fund
forecast yesterday will reach 3.5 percent next year is fueling
the local dollar and prompting traders to boost bets for a rate
increase next month after officials refrained from acting this
week. The mining industry is driving the job boom as Rio Tinto
Group and  BHP Billiton Ltd.  increase coal shipments to China.  “With over a quarter of a million jobs having been added
this year, the majority of which have been full time, the
economy is rapidly approaching full employment,” said  Helen Kevans , an economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Sydney. Central
bank “officials must be increasingly anxious that wage
pressures will intensify, adding further to the nation’s
inflation woes.”  The Australian dollar rose to within 2 U.S. cents of parity
after the report, climbing to 98.29 cents at 1:55 p.m. in Sydney
from 97.64 just before the release. The two-year government bond
yield jumped to 4.89 percent from 4.76 percent, set for its
biggest one-day advance since May 10.  Full-Time Work  The number of full-time jobs gained 55,800 in September and
part-time employment fell 6,300, today’s report showed. The
labor participation rate, which measures the percent of the
population over 15 years old that has a job or looking for one,
was 65.6 percent, compared with 65.4 percent in August, today’s
report showed.  Reserve Bank of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  kept the
benchmark interest rate unchanged at 4.5 percent this week,
while saying that higher borrowing costs will likely be needed
“at some point.”  Traders in futures contracts are betting on a 62 percent
chance the RBA will raise its key rate by a quarter percentage
point next month, compared with the U.S. Federal Reserve’s
policy of holding its rate near zero. That divergence has fueled
a 9.5 percent gain in the Australian currency against the U.S.
dollar this year.  RBA’s Work  The hiring surge threatens to stoke wage inflation, which
the central bank aims to keep in a range of 2 percent to 3
percent. An annual gauge of what the RBA calls core inflation,
the weighted median, was 2.7 percent in the second quarter.  The gain in the local dollar “complements’ the RBA’s work
on monetary policy as lower import prices help cool inflation,
said  Stephen Roberts , a senior economist at Nomura Australia Ltd.
in Sydney. At the same time, costs such as utilities are
“rising at a rapid rate” so there is a “big split in consumer
prices,” he said.  Stevens said this week that while borrowing costs are close
to their average of the past decade, “if economic conditions
evolve as the board currently expects, it is likely that higher
interest rates will be required, at some point, to ensure that
inflation remains consistent with the medium-term target.”  RBA Outlook  The RBA forecasts economic growth will accelerate as demand
from China spurs investment spending by companies such as
 Chevron Corp.,  which is building the A$43 billion ($42 billion)
Gorgon liquefied natural gas project in Western Australia.  There are signs of weaker spending by consumers, who account
for more than half of gross domestic product, after policy
makers increased the benchmark lending rate in six quarter-
percentage-point steps to 4.5 percent in May from a half-century
low of 3 percent in October 2009.  Retail sales rose 0.3 percent in August, less than the
median forecast for a 0.4 percent gain, and imports fell the
most since January 2009, the bureau of statistics said this week.  A report today showed  Australia’s building industry  shrank
in September for a fourth straight month, falling 2.4 points to
40.8, according to a survey by the Australian Industry Group and
Housing Industry Association released in Sydney today. A reading
below 50 shows the industry is contracting.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at  canstey@bloomberg.net  