-- China's August Passenger-Car Sales Growth Accelerates
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-12T08:46:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-09/china-s-august-passenger-car-sales-growth-accelerates-on-dealer-incentives.html
China’s passenger-car sales  to
dealerships quickened in September as incentives for buyers
boosted purchases.  Wholesale deliveries of passenger cars rose 19.3 percent to
1.21 million, accelerating from 18.7 percent in August, the
China Association of Automobile Manufacturers said in an e-
mailed statement today. Deliveries surged 84 percent in
September 2009 after government incentives bolstered demand.  Dealers stepped up discounts in China, the world’s largest
auto market, after passenger-vehicle sales growth slowed from
April amid government efforts to cool the economy. Automakers
and dealers provided additional incentives that lured car buyers
in September, analysts from J.D. Power & Associates, Samsung
Securities Co. and Macquarie Group Ltd. said.  “There is a pickup in buying from the past several
months,”  Leah Jiang , a Shanghai-based analyst at Macquarie,
said in a telephone interview. Dealers “are getting more
visitor traffic,” she said.  In August, China’s government increased the number of cars
eligible for a subsidy benefiting fuel-efficient models. Buyers
of energy-efficient cars will get a rebate of 3,000 yuan ($450)
to help cut pollution in China, the world’s biggest polluter.  Cars including  Ford Motor Co .’s Fiesta and Hyundai Motor
Co.’s Elantra are among those eligible for the subsidy.  Auto sales on the mainland may rise 25 percent to 17
million units this year, Xinhua News Agency reported yesterday,
citing the China Association of Automobile Manufacturers.
Mainland China excludes Taiwan, Hong Kong and Macau.  Surpassing the U.S.  The nation overtook the U.S. as the world’s largest car
market last year, with a record 13.6 million vehicles sold,
according to figures from China’s State Information Center.  Improving economic conditions and gains in the domestic
 stock market  are also helping buying sentiment, said  Marvin Zhu ,
a senior analyst at researcher J.D. Power & Associates in
Shanghai.  China’s economy expanded 10.3 percent from a year earlier
in the second quarter. The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index
has climbed 20 percent from a 15-month low reached on July 5.  Chinese carmaker stocks rose on speculation the outlook for
sales has improved. SAIC Motor Corp., China’s largest automaker,
climbed 10 percent to 18.95 yuan at the 3 p.m. close on the
Shanghai exchange. SAIC said today that nine-month profit may
have jumped more than 140 percent from 3.97 billion yuan a year
earlier as car purchases increased.  General Motors Co.  and Honda Motor Co. are among automakers
that have reported September figures. GM, the biggest overseas
automaker in China, said yesterday sales in the country
increased 15 percent to 208,353 units last month.  Honda’s September sales rose 3 percent from a year earlier
to 60,913 units and Nissan Motor Co.’s rose 30 percent to 97,381
units, the Japanese automakers said in separate statements today.  Total vehicle purchases in China, which also include trucks
and buses, rose 17 percent to 1.56 million units, the
association said.  -- Liza Lin . Editors:  Ian Rowley ,  Lena Lee .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7010 or
 Llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  