-- 
EBay Says Win in Delaware Craigslist Case Bars New Claims

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-07-12T23:56:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-09/ebay-wins-lawsuit-against-craigslist-over-board-seat-that-was-taken-away.html
EBay Inc. (EBAY)  shouldn’t have to face
fraud and negligence claims by Craigslist Inc. in California
because a similar case it won in Delaware upheld its minority
investment rights in the online classified-ad provider, a
company lawyer said.  The Delaware court’s ruling last year, which supported
Ebay’s right to compete with Craigslist, precludes Craigslist
from proceeding with an unfair competition and fraud lawsuit in
California that seeks to strip EBay of its Craigslist shares,
EBay attorney Michael Rhodes told a state court judge today in
San Francisco.  The Delaware court threw out Craigslist’s poison-pill plan,
which EBay alleged was an attempt to punish the online
auctioneer for starting a competing, online classified-ad
service.  “They want you to undo what we just got” in Delaware,
Rhodes told Superior Court Judge Richard Kramer.  The day after losing the case in September, Craigslist
amended its 2008  California  lawsuit, which had been put on hold,
to revive claims it lost in the earlier case, he said.  Jason Yurasek, Craigslist’s attorney, said the Delaware
case was about issues of corporate governance that the judge
recognized as separate from claims in the California case. Both
companies agreed years ago that any dispute over EBay’s
investment should be resolved in state court in San Francisco,
he said. Craigslist says the California case is about whether
EBay lied about its intent to compete with Craigslist and try to
increase its holding and take the company over, he said.  ‘Proverbial Stone’  “This dispute was not over when he ruled,” Yurasek said,
citing comments by the  Delaware  judge that whether his ruling
was the “proverbial stone in Craigslist’s sling that will slay
the giant EBay” remained to be seen.  “It’s clear from the decision that he recognized that this
battle in California would happen,” said Yurasek. “It’s not
appropriate to throw it out.”  Kramer said he would rule tomorrow on what effect, if any,
the Delaware ruling has on the California lawsuit, filed by
closely held Craigslist over claims that EBay used confidential
information obtained during negotiations about its minority
stake to start a competing classified service.  EBay bought a 28 percent stake in Craigslist in 2004. The
company developed an online classified site called Kijiji in
2007. The site was renamed EBayClassifieds.com.  Takeover Defense  The classifieds site prompted Craigslist owners James Buckmaster and Craig Newmark to enact takeover defenses, such as
the poison-pill provision, and to strip EBay of its board seat
on the grounds that the minority shareholder posed a threat to
the online-advertising company.  Craigslist started out as an e-mail list of  San Francisco 
events by Newmark, a software engineer, in 1995, according to
the company’s website.  While ruling in favor of  San Jose , California-based EBay on
Craigslist’s poison-pill plan, Delaware Chancery Court Judge
William B. Chandler III left in place a provision allowing for
staggered director elections. Craigslist officials used that
provision to help strip EBay of its board seat, according to his
ruling.  The case is Craigslist v. EBay, 475276, Superior Court of
California (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco
at   kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  