-- 
Man Accused of Corot Portrait Swindle Gets September Trial Date

-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 
2011-04-20T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-09/missing-corot-painting-s-alleged-co-owner-arrested-by-fbi-on-fraud-charge.html
A  New York  man charged with
illegally acquiring a Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot portrait that
was found in the bushes across the street from the  Metropolitan
Museum  of Art is scheduled to go on trial Sept. 12  U.S. District Judge  Colleen McMahon  in Manhattan, who set
the trial date yesterday, warned Thomas A. Doyle, who is accused
of conspiracy to commit mail and wire fraud, not to miss any
more court dates. He shouldn’t have refused an order earlier
this month by the U.S. Marshals Service to attend court, she
said.  “If the marshals tell you to go, you go,” McMahon said.
“This never happens again.”  Doyle’s lawyer, Donald Duboulay, told reporters that Doyle,
who is incarcerated at the Metropolitan Detention Center in
 Brooklyn , wasn’t feeling well the morning of April 13, when the
status conference was initially scheduled. Doyle knew that
Duboulay was involved in a trial at the time, his lawyer said.  Duboulay said his client will probably go to trial, rather
than plead guilty to a lesser charge.  “That’s what the innocent do,” he said.  Corot’s 1857-58 “Portrait of a Girl” already had
attracted tabloid press coverage by the time Doyle was arrested.
A self-described co-owner of the painting and friend of Doyle,
Kristyn Trudgeon, had filed a lawsuit in August claiming that
another man she and Doyle hired to sell the artwork lost it
after a night of heavy drinking in midtown  Manhattan .  A week after Doyle’s arrest, the painting turned up in a
locker of a doorman on Fifth Avenue at 81st street, across the
street from the Met. The doorman told police that he found it in
the bushes outside the apartment in late July and stored it
because he believed it belonged to a building resident,
according to the New York Times.  Two Co-Conspirators  In acquiring the painting, Doyle had at least two co-
conspirators and sent a series of e-mails to dealers and a “co-
purchaser” of it who lives in  Japan , according to the criminal
complaint.  From May to August, he fraudulently solicited about
$880,000 from an investor, called “Victim 1” by the U.S., in
connection with the purchase, prosecutors said. He allegedly
misled Victim 1 into believing that the two could jointly buy
the painting from a third person for $1.1 million, including a
$50,000 commission paid to an unnamed broker.  Doyle told Victim 1 he would pay $880,000, while Doyle
would provide the remaining $220,000, the U.S. said in court
papers. In May and June, Doyle negotiated the purchase of the
painting for $775,000 and not the $1.1 million price he had
falsely stated to Victim 1, prosecutors said.  Believing Doyle’s original price, Victim 1 paid Doyle
$880,000, the U.S. said.  Doyle pleaded guilty to state charges in 2007 in the theft
of an Edgar Degas sculpture and was released from prison in
December 2009.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Doyle, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The state court
lawsuit is Trudgeon v. Haggerty, 111583/2010,  Supreme Court  of
the State of New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at   mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 