-- Russia tax office files suit vs PWC on YUKOS audit
-- 
-- Mon Dec 25, 2006 11:44am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/25/businesspro-russia-pwc-dc-idUSL2526095120061225

 

 MOSCOW  (Reuters) - Russian tax authorities have filed a 
suit against the local branch of PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) 
accusing it of producing a false audit for fallen oil company 
YUKOS, the auditor said on Monday. 

  PwC said it acted strictly in line with the Russia's 
legislation and was ready to defend its position in court.  The report in question dated from 2002, prior to the demise 
of YUKOS, once Russia's largest and most profitable oil firm.  YUKOS was hit with billions of dollars of tax evasion 
claims in 2003, but many analysts linked the firm's fall to 
Kremlin forces exacting punishment for the political ambitions 
of its key owners, now serving prison terms in Siberia.  PwC confirmed an earlier report by Vedomosti newspaper 
which said the Moscow arbitration court had filed a suit saying 
the firm had compiled two audits -- one for internal use, 
warning of illegal actions by YUKOS, and a second one for 
shareholders.  PwC said in a statement that it had produced two reports 
but denied it was pursuing double standards, adding that it was 
following normal professional standards.  "Responsibility of a company management cannot be shifted 
onto an auditor," PwC in a statement.  The tax inspectorate is demanding cancellation of a 
contract between the two firms and the payment of $145,000, 
which YUKOS paid for the audit of its 2002 results, to state 
coffers, Vedomosti said.  Finance Ministry officials could not be reached for comment 
on the report.  YUKOS is undergoing a bankruptcy procedure and its 
remaining assets are due to be auctioned off in 2007 to cover 
its back tax debts. Tax officials and state oil firm Rosneft 
are YUKOS's major creditors. Rosneft already controls YUKOS's 
former top production unit, Yugansk.  PwC is auditing accounts of many major Russian oil and gas 
firms. On Monday, the firm said its clients were responsible 
for one-half of Russia's overall gross domestic product (GDP).