-- China says to continue stable monetary policy
-- 
-- Mon Dec 25, 2006 4:40am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/25/businesspro-china-economy-cbank-dc-idUSPEK13938020061225

 

 BEIJING  (Reuters) - China's central bank said on Monday 
that it would continue to take steps to keep investment and 
credit growth in check, while pressing ahead with efforts to 
make the value of its currency more market-driven. 

  In a brief statement on its Web site (www.pbc.gov.cn) 
summing up the proceedings of a meeting of its monetary policy 
committee, the People's Bank of China said that while the 
economy was generally functioning well, it still encountered 
some challenges.  "The economic situation is good overall, but it still faces 
problems such as an structural imbalances, an overly 
resource-intensive growth model and imbalanced international 
payments," the central bank said.  It said that it would continue to implement a stable 
monetary policy, while trying to improve its control over 
liquidity in the banking system. It did not elaborate.  The central bank has raised interest rates twice this year 
and banks' reserve requirement ratios three times, as part of a 
broader campaign to rein in a credit-fuelled investment boom. 
That campaign has also involved administrative measures such as 
stricter approval procedures for new investment projects.  In response, annual growth in fixed-asset investment slowed 
to 26.6 percent in the first 11 months from a peak of 31.3 
percent in the first half.  The central bank also reiterated its long-standing vow to 
allow market forces to play a greater role in determining the 
value of the yuan, while keeping the currency "basically stable 
at a reasonable, balanced level."  Since it revalued the yuan by 2.1 percent and decoupled it 
from a dollar peg in July 2005, Beijing has frequently said 
that it was committed to letting the yuan become more flexible 
over time, but that it must do so at its own pace, despite U.S. 
pressure to allow it to appreciate more quickly.  The yuan has now appreciated a further 3.7 percent since 
the revaluation, with the pace having picked up in recent 
months, but many U.S. critics say it remains seriously 
undervalued, giving Chinese exports an unfair advantage in 
global markets.  The central bank also said that it would actively promote 
domestic consumption, while working to keep prices stable. It 
did not mention any details of such plans.  Many economists and officials have said that the economy 
relies too much on fickle investment and exports, and not 
enough on household consumption, exposing it to greater risks 
of a downturn and contributing to trade friction.