-- Japan keeps view that economy is recovering
-- 
-- Mon Dec 25, 2006 4:39am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/25/businesspro-japan-economy-report-dc-idUSTKG00256620061225

 

 TOKYO  (Reuters) - The Japanese government kept its 
assessment of the economy unchanged in a monthly report on 
Monday, after downgrading it for the first time in almost two 
years last month. 

  "The economy is recovering, although there is some weakness 
in consumption," the Cabinet Office said in its December 
report.  Weak consumption -- which has cast some doubts over the 
strength of the economy's recovery in recent months -- had been 
added to the assessment of the economy last month when the 
government downgraded it for the first time since December 
2004.  The December report described personal consumption as 
"generally flat" -- the same description used last month -- 
citing sluggishness in the pace of rises in employees' income.  "As for the outlook, personal consumption, with improvement 
in employment, is expected to increase if the growth of income 
changes for the better," it said.  The December government report also changed descriptions on 
housing construction from generally flat to increasing, and 
corporate goods prices from rising on higher materials prices 
to "generally flat" due to falls in oil and nonferrous metal 
prices.  Consumer prices are flat, while growth of general goods 
prices has slowed with falls in oil product prices, the report 
said, again stopping short of declaring an end to deflation.  "The government aims to declare an end to deflation in the 
current fiscal year, but I cannot comment whether that could 
happen," said Hiroyuki Inoue, a counsellor at the Cabinet 
Office.  Inoue said the government needs to make sure that the 
economy won't return to a situation in which prices fall 
persistently.  The December government report said corporate capital 
spending is increasing and industrial production is increasing 
moderately.  But Inoue said attention should be paid to soft machinery 
orders in recent months in determining the future trend of 
capital spending, and to the build-up of inventories in hi-tech 
industries, which he said is in an adjustment stage.  The report said exports are flat, but attention should be 
paid to the future trend of the U.S. economy whose pace of 
growth is moderating with declines in housing construction.  The report said the government and the Bank of Japan share 
basic views on macroeconomic management and will make joint 
efforts to ensure sustainable economic growth led by 
private-sector demand.  The central bank left its key overnight call rate target 
unchanged at 0.25 percent at the policy meeting that ended last 
Tuesday.  Revised data showed earlier this month that Japan's economy 
grew a softer-than-expected 0.2 percent in July-September, from 
a preliminary reading of 0.5 percent, due to sluggish 
consumption and a downward revision to capital expenditure.  It was the seventh straight quarter of growth.  While the current recovery that began in February 2002 
surpassed the 57-month "Izanagi" boom of the late 1960s last 
month, the pace of growth has been much more modest than 
previous booms.