-- No Turkey-Georgia gas deal yet: Turkish official
-- By Orhan Coskun
-- Mon Dec 25, 2006 11:44am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/25/businesspro-turkey-gas-georgia-dc-idUSL2516114120061225

 

 ANKARA  (Reuters) - Turkey has not yet reached a deal with 
Georgia to supply the ex-Soviet republic with much-needed gas 
next year but expects talks to be concluded in one week, a 
senior Turkish Energy Ministry official told Reuters on Monday. 

  Georgia's Energy Minister Nika Gilauri said on Sunday his 
country had reached an agreement to buy 800 million cubic 
meters of gas from Turkey for its 2007 gas needs. The gas was 
due to come from the Shakh Deniz gas field, operated by BP 
( BP.L ) and Norway's Statoil ( STL.OL ), in Azerbaijan.  Georgia, which buys most of its gas from Russian gas 
monopoly Gazprom ( GAZP.MM ), has been searching for alternative 
supplies after bitter rows with Moscow this year over issues 
including spying.  The Turkish official, who declined to be named, said 
Turkish state-run pipeline company Botas and Azerbaijan's SOCAR 
first needed to agree on selling gas to Georgia before Ankara 
could seal a deal with Tbilisi.  "First an agreement should be signed between the states of 
Azerbaijan and Turkey," the Turkish official said.  "Turkey will meet Georgian and Azeri officials this week in 
Istanbul to make a final decision on the issue," he added.
  DELAYS IN AZERI OUTPUT  Turkey is scheduled to buy 6.3 billion cubic meters (bcm) 
per year once Shakh Deniz is fully operating. Turkey had 
originally planned to buy 3 bcm from the project in 2007.  Turkey will receive its first natural gas from the Caspian 
Sea field Shakh Deniz in July rather than in January as was 
originally planned, the official said.  Test flows of gas from Shakh Deniz began last week.  Azerbaijan had told Ankara that it could start pumping gas 
to Turkey from Shakh Deniz in March at the earliest due to a 
technical breakdown in natural gas wells, the official added.  After threatening to cut off supplies to Georgia, Gazprom 
said on Friday it would sell 1.1 bcm of gas to the ex-Soviet 
state and double prices to $235 per 1,000 cubic meters. Georgia 
needs about 1.9 bcm next year.  Georgia's President Mikhail Saakashvili visited Turkey last 
week to try to persuade Ankara to allow Georgia to bite into 
Turkey's quota of gas from Azerbaijan.  Turkey, which receives most of its gas from Russia, has 
been hesitant about providing Georgia with energy and has not 
yet made any public statement on the matter.  The EU-applicant country hopes to become a regional energy 
hub and has several major pipeline projects under way, 
including one to supply Russian gas to Israel.