-- McCourts Become Officially Divorced With Dodgers Ownership Still Undecided
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2010-11-23T20:54:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/l-a-dodgers-frank-jamie-mccourt-divorced-with-ownership-still-disputed.html
Los Angeles Dodgers owner  Frank McCourt  and his wife were officially divorced, leaving the issue
of who owns the Major League Baseball team still to be decided
by a judge in California.  Frank and  Jamie McCourt ’s divorce was made official Oct.
26, almost 31 years after they were married, according to a
filing in state court in Los Angeles. The dissolution pertains
only to their marital status and doesn’t address the validity of
a postnuptial agreement they went to trial over in September.  California Superior Court Judge Scott M. Gordon will rule
by the end of December on the validity of the postnuptial, which
Frank McCourt says makes him the sole owner of the Dodgers.
Jamie McCourt claims that the agreement isn’t valid because she
wasn’t advised on what it meant if they were to divorce, and
that she is co-owner of the baseball team.  Both sides are expected to respond by the end of this month
to a proposed settlement they were given Nov. 19 by California
Superior Court Judge  Peter Lichtman , who has acted as a mediator
in the case,  Dennis Wasser , a lawyer for Jamie McCourt, said
today in a telephone interview.  Sorrell Trope, a lawyer for Frank McCourt, didn’t
immediately return a call to his office.  The $421 million acquisition of the Dodgers from Fox
Entertainment Group Inc. was completed Feb. 13, 2004. The team
is now worth about $727 million, according to Forbes. Jamie
McCourt testified in September that it was “preposterous” that
she knowingly would have given up her rights to the Dodgers in a
divorce.  Shield Homes  Frank McCourt has argued that his wife sought the agreement
because she wanted to shield the homes that were in her name
from liabilities he assumed to acquire the team, including $330
million in new debt. The couple held the homes in Jamie
McCourt’s name and businesses in Frank McCourt’s name before
they moved to California.  Frank McCourt’s lawyers said during the trial that Jamie
McCourt, who practiced family law in Boston and who has a
business degree from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
was aware of what the postnuptial entailed and declined to be
represented by her own attorney when she made the agreement.  The case is McCourt v. McCourt, BD514309, Los Angeles
County Superior Court (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edvard Pettersson  in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 