-- `Dim Sum' Debt Rallies on Pent-Up Demand to Buy Yuan Assets: China Credit
-- B y   S o n j a   C h e u n g   a n d   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2010-11-24T05:20:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/-dim-sum-debt-rallies-on-pent-up-demand-to-buy-yuan-assets-china-credit.html
Chinese bonds sold in Hong Kong
rallied more than debt from the biggest developing nations in
the past three months as international investors snapped up the
securities to benefit from expected appreciation of the yuan.  The yield on the government’s 3.3 percent offshore bond
maturing in October 2014 fell 22 basis points to 2.91 percent,
while that for similar-maturity debt onshore climbed 92 basis
points, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Rates on
Russian, Indian and Brazilian securities rose in the period. The
yield on notes due in July 2012 issued by Hopewell Highway
Infrastructure Ltd., which is controlled by Hong Kong
billionaire Gordon Wu, dropped 62 basis points to 2.18 percent.  “There’s pent-up demand,” said  Per Nordstrom , the head of
euro medium term notes in Asia at London-based Standard
Chartered Plc. “Investors are generally ‘buy and hold’ as
supply is limited. The dim sum bond market is a frontier market
and it is growing.”  Expectations for the fastest currency gains among the so-
called BRIC nations of Brazil, Russia, India and China are
adding to the allure of yuan assets, even as Chinese regulators
tighten limits on fund inflows. New issuance will help drive up
the average daily turnover of so-called dim sum bonds as much as
six-fold to 300 million yuan ($45 million) by the end of 2011,
from 50 million this month, according to  Standard Chartered Plc .  China showed its support for the market this week as the
Ministry of Finance announced plans to sell 8 billion yuan of
securities on Nov. 30 in Hong Kong. Fund managers will be
offered 5 billion yuan of the debt, with the other 3 billion
yuan earmarked for individuals. China’s only previous sale of
yuan debt in Hong Kong raised 6 billion yuan in October 2009.  Trade Settlement  “Institutional investors only really realized they were
allowed to buy the bonds about six to eight weeks ago, and so
secondary trading should start to pick up,” said  Kieran Curtis ,
who helps manage $2 billion of emerging-market debt in London at
Aviva Investors.  Caterpillar Inc., the world’s biggest maker of construction
equipment, hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to help it sell up to
1 billion yuan of two-year bonds in Hong Kong, a person familiar
with the matter said today.  International Finance Corp., the World Bank’s private
investment arm, plans to sell about 100 million yuan of five-
year bonds in Hong Kong,  Nina Shapiro , the agency’s treasurer,
said last month. United Co. Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum
producer, has met bankers to learn about the yuan-denominated
market,  Oleg Mukhamedshin , the company’s capital markets chief,
said in a Sept. 15 interview.  Offshore Yuan  China is allowing greater use of its currency in global
trade and investment to reduce reliance on the U.S. dollar. The
value of international trade transactions settled in the
currency jumped 160 percent from the three months through June
to 126.5 billion yuan in the third quarter, the central bank
reported on Nov. 2. Yuan  deposits  at Hong Kong banks more than
doubled to a record 149 billion yuan in the six months ended
Sept. 30, Hong Kong Monetary Authority data show.  The Finance Ministry’s last sale of yuan-denominated bonds
in Hong Kong included five-year notes with a coupon of 3.30
percent, three-year securities at 2.70 percent and two-year debt
at 2.25 percent. Investors would have made a 5 percent return on
the five-year notes if they bought them at issue and held them
to Nov. 22, according to calculations by Bloomberg.  The yuan, fell 0.1 percent to 6.6523 per dollar as of 10:22
a.m. in Shanghai, and has risen 2.1 percent since a two-year
dollar peg ended on June 19. The offshore rate in Hong Kong of
6.6235 is 0.4 percent stronger. The yuan will rise 6.3 percent
to 6.4945 per dollar in 12 months, non-deliverable forwards
indicate. It will gain 6.5 percent by the end of next year,
compared with 4.8 percent for the Indian rupee, 4.6 percent for
Russia’s ruble and no change for Brazil’s real, according to the
median estimate of analysts in Bloomberg surveys.  Default Swaps  Five-year credit-default swap contracts on Chinese
government bonds rose six basis points, or 0.06 percentage
point, to 66 yesterday, CMA prices in London show. They have
fallen seven basis points this year. The contracts pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should the government fail to meet debt agreements.  The yield on China’s 3.69 percent government bond maturing
in September 2013 has risen 43 basis points to 2.77 percent in
the past three months in Shanghai. Bonds slumped after the
central bank raised its benchmark one-year lending and deposit
rates by a quarter of a percentage point on Oct. 19 to contain
inflation. Consumer prices rose 4.4 percent from a year earlier
in October, the biggest gain since September 2008.  The rate on Brazil’s similar-maturity debt rose 117 basis
points in the same period to 12.64 percent, Russia’s climbed 17
basis points to 6.94 percent, and India’s rose 8 basis points to
7.41 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Higher Returns  China’s bonds offer better returns than yuan deposits in
Hong Kong, making them popular with individual investors. HSBC,
which controls two of the city’s three biggest banks, offers
interest of 0.71 percent on deposits of 500,000 yuan or less
placed with it for 12 months. Edward Cheung, a 27-year old
nurse, said he bought China’s offshore notes in September.  “The return on yuan bonds was higher than that on other
renminbi products at the time,” he said in an interview
yesterday. “Getting a return of more than 2 percent is pretty
good and risk is low. I have confidence in my investment.”  Demand for yuan assets from investors seeking long-term
gains is so strong it may hamper the development of markets for
such debt, said  Frances Cheung , a Hong Kong-based senior
strategist for Asia excluding Japan at Credit Agricole CIB, a
unit of France’s second-biggest bank by assets.  ‘Buy and Hold’  “New dim sum bond issuance, especially from the likes of
China, will help boost primary-market activity, but secondary
market trading depends on the mindset of bond investors who have
adopted a ‘buy and hold’ strategy,” she said. “The secondary
market is very illiquid, it’s really very lopsided with more
buyers than sellers and this is unlikely to change.”  The government’s new 10-year yuan bond will help set a
benchmark in Hong Kong and make the market more active, Shou
Fugang, chief executive officer at Bank of Communications Co.
(Hong Kong), which is administering the sale, told a press
conference on Nov. 22. The Hong Kong Monetary Authority said the
sale will use its Central Moneymarkets Unit.  The latest offering “will help standardize the sale of
government debt and prepare for more frequent sales in the
future,” said  Liu Linan , an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in Hong
Kong. “Within the next two to three years, we will see more
active trading in the secondary market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sonja Cheung  in Hong Kong at 
 scheung58@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrea Wong  in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net ; 