-- `Microsoft' of Machine Tools Runs World's Factories from Base of Mt. Fuji
-- B y   J a s o n   C l e n f i e l d
-- 2010-11-23T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/-microsoft-of-machine-tools-runs-plants-from-mount-fuji-base.html
At the base of snowcapped Mount Fuji
sits a bright yellow compound that is home to one of Japan’s
most profitable -- and secretive -- companies.  Fanuc Ltd.’s systems tell lathes, grinders and milling
machines how to turn steel into an  Apple Inc.  iPhone case or
aluminum into the rib of a  Boeing Co.  747. More than half of the
world’s computerized tools, including those used by suppliers to
 Toyota Motor Corp.  and  General Motors Co. , use Fanuc controls.  “They’re the Microsoft you’ve never heard of,” said  Scott Foster , an analyst at BNP Paribas in Tokyo. “If Mount Fuji
erupted and took them out, the world would stop running.”  Fanuc’s operating margin rose to a record 44 percent last
quarter, the company said, making it the third highest on the
Topix 100, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. To further
boost profits, President  Yoshiharu Inaba  is focusing on China
and India, Asia’s two fastest-growing major economies.  “We’re working harder than ever to penetrate the Chinese
and Indian markets,” Inaba, 62, said last month at company
headquarters. “All of our capacity is running full-out.”  Fanuc boosted  net income  to 31.1 billion yen ($373.1
million) last quarter, an almost eightfold increase from a year
earlier. That’s more than double the growth reported by 1,605
companies on the Topix, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  China, India Focus  The company’s success contrasts with Japan’s net exports,
or shipments less imports, which were unchanged in the third
quarter as the yen traded near a 15-year high. Worldwide
spending on machine tools this year will rise 12 percent to $56
billion, U.K.-based researcher  Oxford Economics Ltd.   “They’re the industry standard,” said Osamu Matsuda, an
assistant manager for Jtekt Corp., Japan’s biggest listed
toolmaker.  China’s $19.5 billion machine-tool market, the world’s
biggest, is forecast to grow by as much as 20 percent a year
through 2015, Oxford Economics said. India is forecast to grow
by as much as 30 percent a year.  Fanuc’s biggest rival is Munich-based  Siemens AG , Europe’s
largest engineering company, which introduced a simpler product
lineup to appeal to Chinese manufacturers.  Shenyang Machine Tool
Co. , China’s biggest tool maker, is developing its own controls.  Ubiquitous Color  Fanuc’s headquarters  are a sprawling, yellow campus
surrounded by forest in the shadow of Japan’s tallest mountain.
Workers in yellow jumpsuits bearing paramilitary-style badges
trot between yellow buildings as yellow cars hum along pine-
lined roads.  Inaba’s father, Seiuemon, who ran the $35 billion company
for almost three decades after it spun off from Fujitsu Ltd. in
1972, picked the color because it “promotes clear thinking,”
workers said. Fanuc’s  website  also features yellow.  The 85-year-old electrical engineer once gave researchers a
clock running 10 times faster than normal to remind them to stay
ahead of the competition.  Yellow robots  work nonstop cranking out Fanuc’s mainstay
product: the computer numerical controls, or CNC, that run more
than 50 percent of the world’s automated machine tools, the
company said.  Fanuc also makes yellow robots that help  Nissan Motor Co. ,
based in Yokohama, Japan, weld cars. Its machine tools are used
by  Foxconn Technology Group , the world’s largest contract
manufacturer of electronics.  Boeing, General Electric  The company rarely allows visitors inside its factories,
and workers not engaged in research don’t have access to
laboratories. Most board members can’t get in, the company said.  “In a factory floor as big as a football field, you might
see four people,” said  Morten Paulsen , an analyst at CLSA Asia-
Pacific Markets in Tokyo. “The rest are robots reproducing
themselves.”  Fanuc dominates shop floors in Japan, where its CNC panels
run as much as 70 percent of machine tools, including those at
suppliers to Toyota City-based  Toyota , the world’s biggest
carmaker.  In the U.S., Fanuc panels help automate production for
Chicago-based  Boeing , the world’s largest aerospace company, and
Fairfield, Connecticut-based  General Electric Co. , the world’s
biggest provider of power-generation equipment.  E-Mail Banned  Fanuc  shares  have surged 40 percent this year even as it
keeps shareholders at arm’s length. The company doesn’t have an
investor relations department, doesn’t meet investors one-on-one
and doesn’t hold conference calls or briefings at the stock
exchange.  Shareholders seeking information from Fanuc go to its
campus, a two-hour ride west of Tokyo, where the younger Inaba
takes questions four times a year in his yellow blazer.  He irked  investors  in July by canceling the first-quarter
briefing and filing an earnings report without sales breakdowns
and orders data.  “I understand we have an obligation to present earnings,
but my job is to make sure we have earnings,” Yoshiharu Inaba
said last month. “Part of the strategy is to make sure our
competitors don’t get information.”  Fanuc also prohibits workers from using e-mail, except on
designated terminals. Most business is done by phone and fax.  At  Japan’s International Machine Tool Fair  this month,
Fanuc showed off a swiveling, 6-meter-tall (20-foot-tall) yellow
arm that moves car chassis for Detroit-based  GM . A swarm of
salesmen in yellow blazers fielded questions, some in Chinese.  Foxconn Robots  Fanuc makes about 70 percent of its sales in the global
auto industry, Yoshiharu Inaba said. China’s auto  sales  rose 46
percent last year to make it the world’s largest market.  China, no longer content to be the world’s low-cost
manufacturer, is automating. Strikes by factory workers this
year drove up wages, tipping cost calculations in favor of CNC
and robots, said  William Montgomery , a Tokyo-based analyst at MF
Global Ltd.  Foxconn, the Apple supplier that doubled factory pay after
a spate of worker suicides, buys 800 programmable Robodrills
from Fanuc every month -- for about $62,000 each -- to make the
stainless steel band that wraps around the iPhone. The Taipei-
based manufacturer also uses a Fanuc robot to plug chips into
circuit boards at speeds of more than 100 pieces a minute.  “They used to have women with hairnets doing it,”
Montgomery said. “Now this robot is replacing them, and they’re
going to run that factory 24 hours a day.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Clenfield  in Tokyo at 
 jclenfield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  