-- La Nina Cooling May Mean More Snow and Storms, Higher Fuel Prices for U.S.
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2010-11-23T18:55:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/la-nina-cooling-may-mean-more-snow-higher-fuel-prices-for-u-s-.html
Blizzards, droughts, floods and a
surge in hurricanes may be in store as a cooling trend in the
Pacific known as La Nina alters weather around the world and
threatens to boost prices for heating fuels and crops.  The chance of stormier months to come for the northern U.S.
may bring some volatility to the natural gas market in the next
few weeks, said  Cameron Horwitz , an analyst at Canaccord Genuity
Inc. in Houston.  In 1995, following one of the most active Atlantic
hurricane seasons on record, a La Nina combined with other
weather patterns to bring about one of the snowiest winters for
New York and New England, according to  National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration  records. Heating oil prices rose 14
percent and natural gas jumped 52 percent that year.  The coming winter “may get off to a really fast start, and
by that I mean there may be a monster of a storm relatively
early this year, if not in late November then in December,”
said  Joe Bastardi , chief meteorologist at  AccuWeather Inc.  in
State College, Pennsylvania. “I mean a blockbuster near the
Eastern Seaboard.”  The northeastern U.S. is heating oil’s biggest market,
while about 52 percent of American homes use natural gas for
heat. Natural gas for December delivery fell 3.8 cents, or 0.9
percent, to $4.233 per million British thermal units at 1:20
p.m. on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Prices settled
yesterday at $4.271, the highest level since Aug. 13. Heating
oil for December delivery fell 0.49 cent to $2.2637 a gallon.  Pacific Cooling  La Nina is a cooling of the equatorial Pacific. On average,
it occurs every three to five years and lasts nine to 12 months,
with some persisting as long as two years.  Besides more snow for the East, it may mean drier
conditions in Texas and Oklahoma for the hard red wheat crop and
less snow cover for winter wheat across parts of the Plains,
said  Allen Motew , a meteorologist at QT Weather in Chicago.
Chicago’s wheat contract, the benchmark, is up 26 percent this
year and touched a 23-month high of $8.68 a bushel Aug. 6.  This year’s La Nina also has brought heavier-than-normal
rainfall to parts of Asia. La Nina-linked rains have deluged
farms and mines in Southeast Asia, helping drive rubber to a 30-
year high, curbed tin output in Indonesia and flooded rice
fields from Vietnam to the Philippines.  In South America, dry weather caused by La Nina may hurt
Argentine corn and soybeans, ETF Securities has said.  Australia Impact  The phenomenon is closely watched in Australia, the world’s
driest inhabited continent.  Australia had its wettest September on record as La Nina
brought above-average rainfall to the country’s north and east,
according to the  Australian Bureau of Meteorology . Officials in
New South Wales declared the state drought-free for the first
time in nine years as rain boosted the wheat crop and provided
water for cotton and rice planting.  Ashley Ratcliff, technical manager for the Yalumba Wine
Company in Angaston, Australia, said too much rain can also mean
trouble.  “If the rainfall is excessive, there are a number of
significant downsides, like crop failure, reduced quality and
increased input costs as the result of managing fungal
diseases,” Ratcliff said.  If La Nina lasts through next year, as some forecasting
models predict, it may mean another active hurricane season for
2011. La Nina diminishes wind shear over the Atlantic that tears
at the structure of tropical storms and hurricanes.  In 1995, there were 19 named Atlantic storms, the third-
highest number on the books and a tie with this year, according
to NOAA.  Atlantic Oscillation  La Nina’s immediate impact on the U.S. Northeast also
depends on the North Atlantic Oscillation, a shift in
atmospheric pressure, said  Tom Downs , a meteorologist at Weather
2000 Inc. in New York.  Air temperature determines whether La Nina systems produce
rain or snow, Downs said, and air temperature is largely
dependent on the  oscillation , which can affect an area from
eastern North America to western Europe.  “Last year was a good example where we had an extremely
negative North Atlantic Oscillation for most of the winter and
that allowed for a lot of cold air outbreaks in the eastern
third of the nation,” Downs said. “If we had a La Nina in
place with that, we could have had a scenario like 1995-1996.”  A record 75.6 inches of snow fell in New York’s Central
Park in the winter of 1995-96, when a La Nina combined with a
cold phase of the oscillation, according to the National Weather
Service.  Record Snow  For the winter of 2009-2010, when the Pacific was warm,
51.4 inches fell in New York while parts of the mid-Atlantic
Coast and South set snowfall records. Baltimore received more
than 80 inches, compared with a normal of about 16.  Heating oil supplies should be adequate to handle the
coming U.S. winter, said  Tom Knight , vice president of trading
and supply at Truman Arnold Cos. in Texarkana, Texas.  “We don’t foresee any shortages,” Knight said. “There
appears to be sufficient supply around, although there is a
steady appetite for distillate exports.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian K. Sullivan  in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  