-- AbitibiBowater Approved to Cut Debt by $7.2 Billion in Restructuring Plan
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2010-11-23T03:05:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/abitibibowater-will-win-court-approval-of-exit-plan-bankruptcy-judge-says.html
AbitibiBowater Inc. , the world’s
biggest newsprint maker by capacity, won court approval of a
restructuring plan that sheds about $7.2 billion in unsecured
debt, after a bankruptcy judge overruled objections to the plan.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Kevin J. Carey , in a 28-page opinion
filed today in Wilmington, Delaware, said he will approve the
company’s reorganization plan after finding AbitibiBowater
properly allowed a $387 million claim by Fairfax Financial
Holdings Ltd. Some noteholders objected to that claim, calling
it a fraudulent transfer.  “Allowance of the Fairfax guaranty claim under the plan is
fair and reasonable,” and the objections to it “will be
overruled,” Carey said in the opinion. Other objections,
including some from shareholders and retirees, also failed to
sway the judge. The company reached an agreement last week that
resolved most of the noteholders’ objections.  Under AbitibiBowater’s restructuring plan, about
$7.2 billion in unsecured creditors claims will be converted
into the reorganized company’s stock, according to court
documents.  “Once we meet the remaining closing conditions, we will
emerge with a business foundation that fundamentally repositions
AbitibiBowater,” Chief Executive Officer  David J. Paterson  said
today in a statement.” The company will exit court protection
in December, according to the statement.  Creditor Recoveries  The unsecured creditors of AbitibiBowater and its 34 units
will see recoveries ranging from nothing to full payment,
according to projections in the plan. Unsecured creditors of
Bowater Inc., the largest group, are owed about $2.6 billion and
are expected to recoup about 48 cents on the dollar. The company
canceled a $500 million notes offering that the unsecured
creditors would have been allowed to participate in as part of
the plan.  The company’s secured lenders will get a full recovery in
either cash or another arrangement that pays them in full,
according to the restructuring plan. The company’s existing
shareholders will be wiped out under the proposal.  AbitibiBowater received Carey’s approval in August to
borrow $1.35 billion to help fund its exit from bankruptcy.
Units of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , Barclays Plc and  Citigroup Inc. 
are the agents for a $600 million asset-based loan and each will
contribute $100 million, court papers show.  Notes Offering  The company raised $850 million through a notes offering
that closed in October, according to a company statement.
AbitibiBowater was only originally planning on obtaining
$750 million from the notes sale.  The Montreal-based paper maker will use the proceeds from
the loans and notes to make payments under the reorganization
plan and to help fund its business operations after emerging
from bankruptcy, according to court documents.  Steven Zelin , a senior managing director at Blackstone
Group LP and AbitibiBowater’s financial adviser, said the
reorganized company will have a total enterprise value of
$3.5 billion to $3.85 billion with equity worth about
$2.4 billion.  AbitibiBowater  sought bankruptcy protection on April 16,
2009, after U.S. lenders refused to accept a proposed  debt 
restructuring. The company listed $7 billion in assets and
$9.5 billion in debt as of March 31, according to court
documents. The paper-maker had sales of $4.4 billion in 2009.  AbitibiBowater has 19 pulp and paper mills and 24 wood-
products plants in the U.S., Canada, the U.K. and South Korea.
The company was formed in October 2007 by the merger of Abitibi-
Consolidated Inc. and Bowater Inc. in a stock transaction valued
at about $4.8 billion.  The case is In re AbitibiBowater Inc., 09-11296, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Bathon  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 