-- Acer Challenges IPad With Three Tablet Computers
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   K a t i e   H o f f m a n n
-- 2010-11-23T20:00:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/acer-unveils-first-tablet-computers-to-compete-with-apple-s-ipad.html
Acer Inc.,  the Taiwanese laptop
maker, debuted its first tablet computers today, becoming the
latest company to challenge  Apple Inc.  and its market-leading
iPad.  Two of the tablets will have 7-inch and 10.1-inch screens
and be based on  Google Inc.’s  Android software platform, Taipei-
based Acer said at a press conference in New York. The third
tablet, also with a 10.1-inch screen, will be based on Microsoft
Corp.’s Windows software.  Acer, which also makes mobile phones, is trying to grab a
piece of the market for tablets that bridge the gap between
laptops and smartphones like Research In Motion Ltd.’s
BlackBerry and Apple’s iPhone. Apple demonstrated the appeal of
such devices by selling 3 million iPads in the first 80 days
after the product debuted in April.  “This is a market that’s still not fully known, not fully
satisfied,” said  Jim Wong , Acer’s head of information-
technology products, at the event. The company expects 40
million to 50 million tablets will be sold worldwide next year,
and Acer aims to take about 10 percent of the market, he said.  Acer joins a field dominated by Apple, which had a 95
percent share of the tablet market last quarter, according to
Strategy Analytics. Samsung Electronics Co. recently released
its Galaxy Tab and RIM plans to release its 7-inch BlackBerry
PlayBook next quarter.  “It’s a wide-open market and an opportunity for Acer to
make itself better known to a North American market,” said
 Roger Entner , head of telecom research at Nielsen Co.  Hedging Bets  Acer CEO  Gianfranco Lanci  may be trying to hedge his bets
by releasing devices in different sizes. Apple CEO  Steve Jobs 
said last month that devices like the PlayBook are “dead on
arrival“ because they are too small to compete with the iPad,
which has a 9.7-inch screen.  Acer fell 0.9 percent to NT$89.8 today on the Taiwan Stock
Exchange. The stock has dropped 6.6 percent this year.  The two Android tablets will be available in April and the
Microsoft device will go on sale in February. All three will
offer Wi-Fi connectivity and allow users to surf the Internet
using a 3G connection. Wong said the tablets would likely be in
the previously stated range of $299 to $699.  Acer also today released a smartphone with a 4.8-inch
screen based on Android that they touted as a phone with the
“soul of a tablet.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hugo Miller  in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
 Katie Hoffmann  in New York at 
 khoffmann4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  