-- Macro `Obsession' Means No Stand-Out Market for Edinburgh Funds
-- B y   R o d n e y   J e f f e r s o n
-- 2010-11-23T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/macro-obsession-means-no-stand-out-market-for-edinburgh-funds.html
When  Bill Dinning  attended a real
estate conference in London a month ago, Aegon Asset
Management’s head of investment strategy was struck by how
little the audience seemed to care about the market.  The “obsession” about the economy is obscuring the
increase in corporate profits and what’s going on with stock,
bond, credit and property markets, Dinning said.  “At the end of it, all the questions were about the
macro” environment, Dinning said in an interview at his office
in Edinburgh. “One hundred and fifty property investors aren’t
thinking about do I want to buy the Paris market or the Berlin
market, they want to know what’s going on in macro land.”  Strategists in the Scottish capital covering about 510
billion pounds ($814 billion) of funds are busy figuring out
what to do next as debates over inflation, monetary policy in
the emerging markets, the U.S. budget deficit and sovereign debt
in Ireland and Greece drown out talk about valuations.  U.S. stocks are returning more than junk bonds after
trailing them for a decade and equity prices have fallen to a
low relative to credit markets. The discrepancy is making little
difference, with investors withdrawing record amounts from
equity funds, according to LPL Financial Corp. in Boston.  “The problem is the appetite for taking risk,”  Mike Turner , the Edinburgh-based head of strategy at Aberdeen Asset
Management Plc, said in an interview at his office. “We’re
smack bang in the middle of euphoria and panic.”  Taking Gains  Scottish Widows Investment Partnership sold commercial
property in recent months, as well as government bonds and some
U.K. stocks, to realize gains,  Ken Adams , its head of strategy,
said in a Nov. 8 interview. He said the changes were across a
range of funds. He declined to single out individual stocks.  Standard Life Investments  reckons real estate is the
cheapest asset class, while credit is “a little cheap,” said
 Andrew Milligan , its global strategist. He predicts a 20 percent
return over three years for commercial property, in line with
gains for company bonds.  “You get a nice long-running yield, depending on the
building,” said Milligan, whose firm oversees 154 billion
pounds. “The situation for credit still looks good. It’s a
reflection of our pessimism on the economy, our optimism on
corporate earnings and our value analysis that says corporate
bonds are not yet expensive.”  Wild Cards  Milligan said the wild card for next year includes the U.S.
budget and China.  The White House budget office projects the  federal deficit 
this year will exceed $1.5 trillion, or 10.6 percent of gross
domestic product, and will remain as high as $751 billion, or
3.9 percent of GDP, in five years.  China, by contrast, on Nov. 19 ordered banks to set aside
more reserves for the second time in two weeks, draining cash to
curb inflation and reduce the risk of a bubble in the world’s
fastest-growing major economy.  “The one assumption that pretty much everyone bases their
forecasts on is that China won’t suffer any major problems next
year,” Milligan said in an interview.  Then there’s rising bond yields and debt financing pressure
in Ireland, which is following Greece in resorting to a rescue
by the European Union and International Monetary Fund after its
banks teetered on the brink of collapse.  The difference in yield, or  spread , between 10-year Irish
and German bonds of similar maturity narrowed nine basis points,
or 0.09 percentage point, yesterday to 533 points. The spread
has doubled since the week when Greece agreed to a 110 billion-
euro ($150 billion) package of loans from the EU and IMF in May.  Stocks vs. Credit  Aegon, manager of 43 billion pounds of assets, sold
corporate bonds at the end of September to buy stocks with
higher dividends, said Dinning, who in August predicted equity
markets would rise for the rest of the year.  Equity is still cheap relative to debt, he said on Nov. 3.
He didn’t specify shares of which companies he purchased.  The  MSCI World Index  of developed market stocks has climbed
20 percent, including reinvested dividends, in the second half
of this year. The  Barclays Capital Global Aggregated Corporate
Index  returned 7.6 percent in the same period. Junk bonds have
returned 11.4 percent since June 30, according to  Barclays’
Global High-Yield Index .  Scottish Widows, which oversees 146 billion pounds and is
part of  Lloyds Banking Group Plc , hasn’t yet redeployed the
money it raised from selling investments, Adams said.  “I don’t think there’s anything that stands out,” he
said. “There’s a lack of sustainable growth that’s pervasive.
We’ve become less aggressive taking account of the risks. We are
positive, just less positive than we were.”  Nothing ‘Obvious’  For Turner at  Aberdeen Asset Management , changing his asset
allocation is difficult for the same reason. Like Milligan at
Standard Life, he sees the wisdom of holding property and credit
for the rental yield or bond coupon.  “It’s not really obvious that anything is standing out,”
Turner said on Nov. 3. Aberdeen Asset Management, based in
northeast Scotland, oversaw 169 billion pounds on Aug. 31.  All four strategists agree that corporate earnings will
improve next year. They also agree that the economic hinterland
makes it trickier to navigate stock markets.  The companies in the  MSCI World  to have posted quarterly
earnings since Oct. 7 on average have reported a 34 percent
increase in net income, according to Bloomberg data. Of those,
60 percent have beaten estimates.  “There are lots of legitimate policy and macro issues to
worry about,” said Dinning. “It’s just that if you looked at
the world bottom up, you’d come to a different conclusion.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rodney Jefferson  in Edinburgh at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  