-- Adcock Looks to Emerging Markets to Spend Its `War Chest' on Acquisitions
-- B y   N i c k y   S m i t h
-- 2010-11-23T10:15:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/adcock-looks-to-emerging-markets-to-spend-war-chest-on-generic-companies.html
Adcock Ingram Holdings Ltd. ,
Africa’s largest over-the-counter drug company, is looking to
spend as much as 1.4 billion rand ($198 million) on acquisitions
in emerging markets, Chief Executive Officer  Jonathan Louw  said.  Adcock will target makers of generic and OTC medicines in
Latin America, Eastern Europe and Asia Pacific, Louw said today
in a telephone interview. Acquisitions will be determined more
by the type of products rather than the territories in which
companies operate, he said.  Expansion into emerging markets is the next phase of
Johannesburg-based Adcock’s strategy after increasing sales in
its home market and across Africa, Louw said. Adcock is “right
in the middle” of its African expansion, he said. The company,
spun out of Tiger Brands Ltd., South Africa’s largest food
company, in 2008, this year agreed to market and distribute
medicines from  Merck & Co.  of the U.S.  “We have a nice war chest built up," Louw said. "If we
extend much beyond the medium term, two to three years, and we
are still sitting with a lump of cash, we will have to do
something else if we can’t find the right acquisition,” such as
returning it to shareholders.  Asset prices are too high after drugmakers were viewed as
defensive stocks during the global recession, he said.  “We are looking for earnings-accretive acquisitions which
are pretty difficult to find given the trading multiples that
many pharmaceutical companies trade on,” Louw said.  Dawanol Painkiller  Adcock acquired drug businesses in Ghana and Kenya last
year and has improved the sales of the East African painkiller
brand Dawanol by more than 70 percent since taking the business
over, he said.  “It’s off a small base but it’s still very exciting,”
Louw said.  Dawanol has been introduced in Uganda and will be offered
in Tanzania soon, he said. Adcock also has introduced “about
eight” of its own brands into these markets, including
Myprodol, Betapyn and Syndol, he said. Drugs from partners such
as Merck are also being introduced in east and west Africa.  South Africa accounts for about 0.3 percent of the global
pharmaceutical market, and the rest of Africa accounts for
another 0.3 percent, Louw said. Over the next five years, Adcock
will register as many as 100 new drugs in Africa each year,
focusing on the top 15 or 20 markets, he said.  “You have to fish in many ponds in order to succeed” on
the continent, he said.  Earlier the company said in a separate statement net income
fell 19 percent to 631.5 million rand in the year through
September while sales rose 11 percent to 4.4 billion rand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicky Smith  in Johannesburg at 
 nsmith38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net  