-- Maersk May Invest in Railways, Trucks in China, India on Asia Trade Growth
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2010-11-23T10:42:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/maersk-may-invest-in-china-india-cargo-operators-on-asia-trade.html
A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S ’s
container-terminal arm may invest in rail, truck or barge
operators in China and India as Asian trade growth outpaces
demand in the U.S. and Europe.  The company is considering acquisitions that will allow it
to haul goods to ports,  APM Terminals  Chief Executive Officer
Kim Fejfer told reporters in Singapore today. He declined to
elaborate further on possible targets.  APM Terminals also plans to invest in Yangtze River ports
as economic growth in rural China spurs cargo traffic along the
nation’s longest river. Sea-cargo traffic in China, Vietnam,
India and other emerging markets may grow 7 percent annually
until 2015 compared with a 2 percent expansion in more mature
economies, Fejfer said.  “China, Vietnam and India are the markets that we would
like to increase our foothold in,” said Martin Christiansen,
 APM Terminals ’ Asia-Pacific head. The company is looking at
“a number of interesting projects” along the Yangtze, he said.  Global container-port traffic will likely rise about 5
percent a year for the next five years, according to the
terminal operator. Maersk also runs the world’s largest
container-shipping line.  The company, which operates more than 50 terminals in 34
countries, increased the number of containers it handled in the
first nine months of this year by 3 percent to 23.5 million 20-
foot boxes. It is also currently developing seven new projects.  Separately, APM Terminals’ Pipavav, India unit agreed to
lease almost 100 acres of land to Aegis Logistics Ltd. Aegis
will build a $90 million oil terminal at the facility, about 150
miles north of Mumbai, the companies said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  