-- Mahindra Buys Ssangyong Stake for $377 Million Adding Sales Outside India
-- B y   S o o k y u n g   S e o   a n d   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2010-11-23T10:49:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/mahindra-buys-ssangyong-stake-for-377-million-adding-sales-outside-india.html
Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. , India’s
largest maker of sport-utility vehicles, will pay 427.1 billion
won ($368 million) for a controlling stake in Ssangyong Motor
Co. to help widen its range and boost sales overseas.  The automaker will acquire a 70 percent stake by buying new
shares in the deal, which needs approval from Ssangyong
creditors, the companies said today in an e-mailed statement.
Mahindra also will buy 95.4 billion won of new bonds from
Pyeongtaek, South Korea-based Ssangyong.  Mahindra intends to introduce as many as three new
 Ssangyong  models in four years to help revive sales at the
Korean SUV-maker, which sought court protection from creditors
following a plunge in sales. The deal gives Mahindra access to
more-advanced engines and helps widen its dealer network in Asia
and Europe amid rising competition in India.  “The acquisition is a good strategic fit for Mahindra but
the financial transaction wasn’t cheap,” said  Mahantesh Sabarad , a Mumbai-based analyst at Fortune Equity Brokers
(India) Ltd., who rates Mahindra “sell.” “Turning around the
company will be difficult. They are taking a big risk.”  Mahindra , also India’s largest tractor-maker, declined 0.6
percent to 762.15 rupees as of the 3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai
trading.  Ssangyong  dropped 4.5 percent to 9,550 won at the 3
p.m. market close in Seoul. The Korean automaker has a market
value of $300 million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The final agreement was filed today with the Seoul Central
District Court, which is overseeing Ssangyong’s restructuring.
Samjong KPMG Advisory Inc. and Macquarie Group Ltd. are
arranging the sale.  Mahindra Going Global  Mahindra may use Ssangyong engines in pickups it plans to
sell in the U.S. as the company works to pare its reliance on
the Indian market. The automaker in August won approval from the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency to introduce vehicles in
the country. A legal dispute with a distributor has disrupted
the start of sales.  Mahindra also bought out partner Renault SA in a domestic
sedan-making venture this year and acquired control of
Bangalore-based Reva Electric Car Co. to broaden its automobile
lineup. The company also may build Ssangyong models in India,
 Pawan Goenka , president of Mahindra’s automotive and farm
equipment division, said in September.  Ssangyong, formerly controlled by  SAIC Motor Corp. , China’s
largest automaker, sought bankruptcy protection in February 2009
after higher fuel prices and the global recession squeezed sales
of its mainstay SUVs.  Mahindra expects to complete the acquisition by March, the
company said in the statement. The automaker was named the
preferred bidder in August.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sookyung Seo in Seoul at 
 sseo10@bloomberg.net ;
 Siddharth Philip  in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at   kinoue@bloomberg.net  