-- Thai Premier Pushes Constitutional Changes Opposed by Former Allies, Foes
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2010-11-23T12:18:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/thai-premier-pushes-constitution-change-opposed-by-allies-foes.html
Thai Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  said additional constitutional changes would wait
until after an election as the country becomes more peaceful,
signaling his conditions for calling a poll are being met.  Lawmakers today started debating two of the four amendments
suggested by a committee created by Abhisit in June to reconcile
the country after deadly political protests. The government
dropped consideration of proposals that would make it harder to
disband political parties and revise the make-up of a half-
appointed Senate introduced after a 2006 military coup.  “If anyone still has problems with the constitution, they
should wait until after the election,” Abhisit said today. The
possibility for peaceful polls “has improved now,” he said.  Since protests last year, Abhisit has put three conditions
on calling an election before his term expires at the end of
2011: a stable economy, constitutional changes and a peaceful
environment. Disputes over rules to govern the country have
fueled protests that have killed more than 100 people and soured
the investment climate since the last election.  Abhisit took power in a December 2008 parliamentary vote
after a court disbanded the ruling party backed by former Prime
Minister Thaksin Shinawatra for election fraud under rules
written in the post-coup constitution. Two committees set up by
Abhisit following separate pro-Thaksin protests the past two
years recommended changing the clause, which calls for a party
to be disbanded if one executive member commits a crime.  ‘Don’t Agree’  Thaksin’s supporters are seeking a return of the  1997
constitution  in place before the coup. They have rejected
Abhisit’s attempts to change two of the constitution’s 309
articles, one making it easier to sign international treaties
and the other scrapping multi-member constituencies in favor of
single-member constituencies.  “We don’t agree with other amendments as we don’t see how
the people will benefit from that,”  Anudit Nakorntab , a Puea
Thai member from Bangkok, said by phone. “Those amendments will
only benefit politicians and may be used as negotiating tools.”  The pro-Thaksin Puea Thai party holds 186 out of 470 seats
in the House of Representatives, while Abhisit’s Democrat party
has 171 seats and the remaining 113 are split among seven
smaller parties and unaffiliated members. Any changes require at
least half the votes in a joint sitting of the House of
Representatives and the 150-strong, half-appointed Senate,
according to the  constitution .  Abhisit’s Democrat party resolved yesterday to support the
changes, though one member helped lead a protest today against
the amendments. The People’s Alliance for Democracy, a protest
group whose leaders include a member of Abhisit’s party, will
gather outside Parliament for the next three days to push for a
nationwide referendum on the changes.  ‘Just a Game’  “Abhisit knows that bringing up this issue in Parliament
will bring protests from both sides,”  Parnthep Pourpongpan , the
group’s spokesman, said by phone. “He wants a reason to
dissolve Parliament and look like a hero. It’s just a game.”  Abhisit’s Democrat party has implemented programs to
refinance loans and guarantee crop prices in a bid to win the
most seats in an election since 1992. Poorer voters in
Thailand’s northeast have helped Thaksin and his allies win the
most seats in the past four elections.  Thailand’s benchmark  SET Index  has risen 32 percent, the
second biggest gain among Asia’s 15 biggest markets after
Indonesia, since the military ended two months of anti-
government protests on May 19. The baht has climbed 7.6 percent
in that time, the most among Asia’s 10 most-traded currencies
outside Japan, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Ten Kate  in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at   billaustin@bloomberg.net  