-- AIG Names Schreiber to Entice Private Investments to Replace Rescue Funds
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2010-11-23T17:08:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/aig-names-schreiber-to-manage-debts-reporting-to-cfo-herzog.html
American International Group Inc. ,
the insurer repaying a U.S. bailout, named  Brian T. Schreiber  to
oversee the company’s debt and its efforts to entice investors
to contribute the capital needed to replace government funds.  Schreiber, who was previously head of strategic planning,
was named executive vice president, treasury and capital
markets, and will report to Chief Financial Officer  David Herzog 
in the newly created job, the New York-based insurer said today
in a statement.  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  is seeking private
funds as AIG’s reliance on U.S. aid extends into its third year.
He said in September that the sale of two non-U.S. life units
will help AIG retire a Federal Reserve  credit line  that saved
the company from failure in 2008. AIG plans to convert a $49.1
billion Treasury Department stake into common stock by the end
of March and to sell shares and debt to private investors.  “The combination of Brian’s capital markets experience,
business acumen, knowledge of AIG’s continuing businesses, and
drive for results will position him well to help AIG re-enter
the capital markets and achieve its future objectives,” Herzog
said in a memo to AIG employees. “We will continue to assess
and refine the organization as we move toward completing our
restructuring and become increasingly subject to the scrutiny
and expectations of the investment community.”  Schreiber will also oversee investor relations and keep his
responsibilities over restructuring, mergers and acquisitions
and corporate development. He’ll name new heads of strategic
planning and investor relations “in the near future,” Herzog
said. Treasurer  Robert Gender , who was named senior vice
president, will report to Schreiber.  Schreiber will manage the investments held at AIG’s parent
company in partnership with the firm’s asset management group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  