-- Airbus Chasing Boeing in Japan Seeks Superjumbo Deal by March
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2010-11-23T00:01:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/airbus-chasing-boeing-in-japan-expects-firm-orders-from-skymark-by-march.html
Airbus SAS said it’s confident of
securing a firm order for four A380 superjumbos before the end
of March from  Skymark Airlines Inc. , as it seeks to use the
discount carrier to pry open the Japanese market.  Skymark, which operates a fleet of 15 Boeing Co. 737
aircraft on domestic routes, aims to use the double-decker
Airbus to connect Tokyo with London. Airbus aims to get a firm
commitment from Skymark by the end of the first quarter, said
 Kiran Rao , the Airbus executive vice president for sales and
marketing in Asia.  “Japanese culture lends itself to the A380,” Rao said in
a telephone interview yesterday. “If you look at the way that
airlines operate the A380, you’ll see that one of the first
markets they all went into is Japan.”  While the world’s largest passenger aircraft makes regular
appearances in Japan with airlines including  Deutsche Lufthansa
AG , Airbus has struggled for decades to establish a presence
similar to that of Boeing in the country. All Nippon Airways Co.
came close to ordering A380s in 2008, only to pull out amid
financing concerns as the global economy contracted, Rao said.  Skymark said on Nov. 12 that it may order as many as 15
Airbus A380s. The memorandum of understanding with the aircraft
manufacturer is for four A380s.  Bolstering Orders  Airbus has just 7.3 percent of the Japanese airliner market
today, with 21 of its planes in Japanese fleets, compared with
about 93 percent of the market for Boeing, with 285 planes in
Japanese fleets, according to figures provided by London-based
Ascend, which collects global aviation data.  Securing a firm commitment from Skymark would help Airbus
bolster its  order book  for the A380, after struggling to sign up
new customers in recent years. The four-engine jet, which
typically seats more than 500 travellers, has a list price of
$346 million. Emirates is the largest single customer, having
ordered 90. There are 38 A380s in service globally today.   Qantas Airways Ltd.  grounded its entire fleet of six A380s
on Nov. 4 after an engine blew up in mid flight. The jets remain
grounded after the incident, in which there no casualties.  The Skymark A380s will be fitted with 114 business-class
seats on the upper deck and 280 premium economy seats below. The
first will be delivered in September 2014, Skymark President
 Shinichi Nishikubo  said this month. Nishikubo said he expects to
make a profit on the route in the first 12 months after starting
the A380 London flights in November 2014.  Japanese Preferences  Rao said Japanese customers would be more inclined to
embrace the A380 when operated by a local carrier because of
their loyalty to national airlines and their desire for a level
of service that can be best offered by a Japanese company.  “They’re very sensitive to flying with Japanese carriers,
because they feel that culturally, they’re treated in the right
way,” Rao said by telephone.  Skymark will compete with  British Airways Plc ,  All  Nippon,
Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd. and  Japan Airlines Corp.  on the
London service. Tokyo’s Narita airport was among the first three
destinations served by Singapore Airlines, which began flying
the A380 in 2007. Air France, the first European carrier to get
the world’s largest passenger jet, also flies to the Narita hub.  Tokyo was Lufthansa’s first scheduled destination for the
A380. It began serving the city with three weekly A380 flights
initially, moving to daily flights when the second plane entered
service in August. The German carrier flies the planes with 420
seats in economy, 98 in business and eight in first class.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Rothman  in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 