-- Airgas Wins Meeting-Date Ruling in Bid to Thwart Air Products; Shares Drop
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2010-11-23T23:17:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/airgas-wins-ruling-on-annual-meeting-date-in-bid-to-fend-off-air-products.html
Airgas Inc . won an appeals court
ruling that may derail a $5.5 billion hostile takeover bid from
 Air Products & Chemicals Inc. , which has been pursuing the
industrial-gas company for more than a year.  The Delaware Supreme Court ruled today that Airgas
shareholders can’t force the board of directors to hold the next
annual meeting in January, just four months after the 2010
meeting. Air Products aimed to use that meeting to replace three
Airgas directors with its own nominees and take control of the
largest U.S. distributor of packaged gases.  The state’s highest court concluded a bylaw changing
Airgas’s annual meeting date improperly shortened the terms of
directors on the industrial-gas supplier’s staggered board.
Analysts said the ruling may cause Air Products to drop its
$65.50-a-share bid.  “The first concern is that Air Products walks away,”
 Louis Meyer , a New York-based analyst at Oscar Gruss & Sons who
rates Airgas a “hold,” said in telephone interview. “This
situation is getting old, and old deals sometimes die before
they reach the finish line.”  The ruling extends by about nine months the time it would
probably take for Air Products to replace a majority of the
Airgas board.  Continuing the fight through Airgas’s next annual meeting,
which could take place next October, would make it the longest
U.S. hostile takeover in at least a decade, surpassing Oracle
Corp.’s 556-day hostile pursuit of PeopleSoft Inc., according to
data compiled by Bloomberg of bids worth more than $1 billion.  Shares Fall  Airgas fell $3.90, or 5.9 percent, to close at $62 in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares had risen 38
percent this year before today. Air Products fell 93 cents, or
1.1 percent, to close at $84.57 on the NYSE.  “Today is a victory for Airgas shareholders,” Airgas
Chief Executive Officer  Peter McCausland  said in an e-mailed
statement. “The Supreme Court’s ruling maintains the balance of
bargaining power that Delaware companies with staggered boards
have always expected.”  "We are disappointed’’ by the ruling, Air Products said in
a statement. “Airgas shareholders have been disenfranchised and
have lost hundreds of millions of dollars in market value as a
result."  Mark Gulley , a New York-based analyst at Soleil Securities
who rates Airgas shares ‘‘hold,’’ said the companies may still
negotiate a friendly deal. Air Products ‘‘won’t just fold up
their tent’’ as a result of the adverse ruling, Gulley said in a
telephone interview.  Too Low  Officials of Radnor, Pennsylvania-based Airgas have
repeatedly rejected Air Products’ bid of $65.50 a share as too
low. Air Products, based in Allentown, Pennsylvania, is the
second-biggest U.S. industrial-gases producer behind  Praxair
Inc .  An Airgas board member said in a letter included in a
regulatory filing Nov. 2 that company officials think the firm
is worth at least $78 a share. In a reply letter, Air Products
officials estimated that Airgas was worth less than $70 a share.  Airgas’s lawyers failed to convince Delaware Chancery Court
Judge  William B. Chandler III  at an October trial that
shareholders erred by voting in favor of the Air Products-backed
bylaw changing the company’s meeting date to January.  Investors also voted at the September meeting to add three
Air Products nominees to Airgas’s staggered board. Under that
system, created to make takeovers more difficult, only some
directors are up for election at one time. The defense drags out
the process of winning control of a targeted company’s board.  Airgas Appeal  On appeal, Airgas argued that Chandler misread Delaware’s
corporate statutes in finding that there is no bar to shortening
the interval between annual meetings, and said the ruling
undercuts the staggered-board defense.  Air Products’ attorneys countered in their appeal filings
that investors have the right to approve corporate bylaws and
nothing in Delaware law requires a 12-month interval between
annual meetings.  The Supreme Court found that the bylaw change improperly
shortened Airgas director’s terms and the measure was
‘‘inconsistent” with the company’s charter.  “In substance, the January Bylaw so extremely truncates
the directors’ term as to constitute a de facto removal that is
inconsistent with the Airgas Charter,” Justice  Henry DuPont Ridgely  said in the 23-page ruling.  Chandler still must rule on whether Air Products’ challenge
to Airgas’s so-called poison-pill takeover defense is
legitimate.  Poison Pill  The pill is designed to make a takeover prohibitively
expensive by letting existing shareholders buy stock at a
discount when a hostile bid is made. Delaware courts have found
such defenses to be proper unless used to restrict directors’
power to consider buyout offers, said  Paul Regan , a Widener
University law professor who specializes in Delaware corporate
cases.  Today’s ruling makes clear that if a director on a
staggered board is elected to a three-year term, “he’s going to
serve 36 months or pretty darn close to that,” Regan said.  ‘Too Clever’  The Supreme Court decision is not likely to change takeover
tactics among investors, said  Charles Elson , a University of
Delaware finance professor and director of the school’s John L.
Weinberg Center for Corporate Governance.  Air Products’ attempt to use a change to an acquisition
target’s bylaws to gain control was unusual, Elson said.  “I guess the Supreme Court thought it was a little too
clever,” he said.  Airgas’s appeal was handled by New York’s Wachtell, Lipton,
Rosen & Katz LLP and Wilmington, Delaware-based Potter Anderson
& Corroon LLP. New York’s Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP and
Wilmington’s Morris, Nichols, Arsht & Tunnell represent Air
Products.  Airgas’s bankers are Bank of America Corp. and  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc . Air Products is using  JPMorgan Chase  & Co. and
Perella Weinberg Partners LP.  The case is Airgas Inc. v. Air Products & Chemicals Inc.,
649-2010, Delaware Supreme Court (Dover). The lower-court case
is Airgas Inc. v. Air Products & Chemicals Inc., 5817, Delaware
Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jef Feeley  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
 Sophia Pearson  in Wilmington at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 