-- Airport-Scanner Protesters' Impact on Thanksgiving Travel May Be Limited
-- B y   J o h n   H u g h e s   a n d   J u l i a n n   N e h e r
-- 2010-11-23T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/airports-limited-body-scanner-use-may-curb-travel-disruptions.html
Airport-security protesters may have
limited impact on U.S. Thanksgiving holiday travel because the
body-scanning devices being targeted aren’t yet being widely
used in terminals.  The  Transportation Security Administration  has installed
more than 400 body scanners capable of detecting items beneath
passengers’ clothes at 70 U.S. airports, agency spokesman Greg
Soule said yesterday. That means fewer than a fifth of the
nation’s 2,200 security lanes at 450 commercial airports will
have the devices.  “The good news about this particular holiday season is
that you’re likely probably not to encounter one,” said  Rick Seaney , chief executive officer of Farecompare.com, an online
travel site.  Federal transportation screeners, airlines and travelers
have been preparing for tomorrow, one of the busiest travel days
of the year. It may be complicated by some groups’ planned
protests of body scanners.  Passengers should “use some judgment” and not tie up
others traveling to see loved ones over the holiday,  John Pistole , administrator of the security agency, said yesterday.  “We’ll be fully staffed,” Pistole said on NBC’s “Today”
show. “The question becomes what happens to the wait times, and
do people end up missing flights because a small or large group,
whomever it is, decides to protest and delay those vast majority
of people who just want to get home for the holidays.”  Traveling as Planned  Airlines said they are seeing no effects from planned
protests.  Delta Air Lines Inc.  has seen “no notable volume” of
cancellations or flights missed because of the screening
process, said  Susan Elliott , a spokeswoman for the Atlanta-based
carrier.  “Anecdotal evidence from our folks at the airports and
reservations centers has been that there is very little
problem,” said  Tim Smith , a spokesman for AMR Corp.’s American
Airlines. “The overwhelming majority of customers are generally
traveling exactly as planned.”  Pistole, in an interview with Fox News, said he would like
to work with agencies including the Government Accountability
Office to determine, “Are there less intrusive means that still
provide that high level of confidence in terms of screening?”  Echoing a statement issued by TSA on Sunday, White House
Press Secretary  Robert Gibbs  said yesterday that security
procedures are “evolving.”  ‘Gum Things Up’  Tomorrow, the day before the Thanksgiving holiday, has been
declared  National Opt-Out Day  by several groups urging
passengers to avoid the scanners and to slow the screening by
choosing a pat-down search instead. Organizers object to the
detailed view of passengers’ bodies that the scanners depict for
a screener located in a remote room, along with what they say
are negative health effects of the devices.  A small number of protesters could “gum things up,” so
travelers should get to airports early, Seaney said.  Demonstrators will advise passengers of what the protesters
see as health risks of the body scanners, said James Babb, co-
founder of the website wewontfly.com.  “When people learn about the radiation risk, they may very
well decide that they want to go with the enhanced pat-down,”
Babb said. The security agency doesn’t “have the manpower to
put their hands in everyone’s pants. So yeah, that could cause
delays.”  Scanner Deployment  Consumer advocate  Ralph Nader  is backing the opt-out
effort, as are the civil liberties organization Electronic
Privacy Information Center and passenger group FlyersRights.org.  The TSA has been accelerating use of the scanners after the
U.S. said Nigerian  Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab  tried to blow up a
Northwest Airlines flight on its approach to Detroit Dec. 25 by
igniting explosives in his underpants. The security agency plans
to deploy 1,000 of the scanners at airports by the end of next
year.  While the scanners are voluntary, those who opt out are
subject to a pat-down that the security agency has said takes
longer. “I’ve had the pat-down, and it is not what you would
normally expect,” Pistole said in an interview Nov. 19 at
Bloomberg’s office in Washington.  The enhanced pat-down includes agents using the palm side
of their hand and fingers instead of the back of the hand, which
was the previous practice. Agents are allowed to feel around
breasts and genitals for hidden items. The searches are done by
agents of the same sex as the passenger, and the traveler can
ask for them to be done in private.  Fewer than 2 percent of passengers opt out of going through
the body scanners at airports where they are installed, Pistole
said Nov. 19.  The protests are “certainly something we’re opposing,”
said  David Stempler , president of the Air Travelers Association,
an advocacy group in Chevy Chase, Maryland.  “It’s just going to create difficulties for passengers and
it could cause them to be delayed or even miss their flight on a
very busy travel day,” Stempler said.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 John Hughes  in Washington 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net ;
 Juliann Neher  in Washington at 
 jneher1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernie Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 