-- Malaysia Exchange Sees Record Share Sales Extending Into 2011 Amid Inflows
-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 2010-11-23T00:24:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/malaysia-exchange-sees-record-share-sales-extending-into-2011-amid-inflows.html
Malaysia may match this year’s
record initial public offerings in 2011 as government efforts to
boost the economy bolster investor confidence,  Bursa Malaysia
Bhd.  Chief Executive Officer Yusli Mohamed Yusoff said.  Petronas Chemicals Group Bhd. led 19.6 billion ringgit
($6.2 billion) of IPOs in Malaysia this year, surpassing the
previous all-time high of 12 billion ringgit in 2009, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The number of offerings has
doubled to 28 from 14, as government share sales and an
appreciating currency drew investors.  “We may see a similar performance next year not only for
initial public offerings but also for secondary fund-raising by
existing companies,” given “conducive” market conditions,
Yusli, 51, said in an e-mailed response to questions. He
declined to specify targets.  The benchmark  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index  reached an
intraday  record  on Nov. 10 as international investors purchased
more of the nation’s stocks than at any time since at least
1995, according to data compiled by EPFR Global.  “We’re not seeing any slowdown,” Tajuddin Atan, managing
director of RHB Capital Bhd., the country’s fourth-biggest bank,
said in an interview. “Investment banks are all very busy now.
The pipeline is quite strong.”  Valuations Climb  The value of Southeast Asia’s second-biggest  market  has
surged 21 percent this year to 1.18 trillion ringgit amid rising
fund flows into emerging markets. The 30 stocks on the Kuala
Lumpur index are valued at 15.9  times  estimated profit, compared
with 14.6 times for the 985 shares on the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index, 16.3 for China’s Shanghai Composite Index and 18.9 for
the Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index, according to weekly
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Petronas Chemicals’s IPO values the company at about 16
times profit, higher than the multiple of 12 for Thailand’s PTT
Pcl. Initial sales next year will depend on continuing fund
flows into emerging markets, said  Pankaj Kumar , who oversees
$560 million as chief investment officer of Kurnia Insurans
Malaysia Bhd. near Kuala Lumpur.  “Once this liquidity tap is switched off, you will see the
reverse happening,” Kumar said. “We are in a bubble with the
knowledge of being in the bubble, it’s a question of who reacts
fast enough to exit.”  Chemicals, Property  Petronas Chemicals this month raised a record  12.8 billion
ringgit , as the oil, gas and petrochemicals industry led
offerings this year. Property trusts sold 2.5 billion ringgit of
equity, including Sunway Real Estate Investment Trust’s 1.5
billion ringgit. IPOs last year were dominated by  Maxis Bhd. ,
Malaysia’s biggest mobile-phone operator, which raised 11.2
billion ringgit.  “The IPO pipeline has seen a significant rise to date,
which is far better than last year,” Bursa’s Yusli said,
declining to name companies that plan to list next year, or
estimate the total. The new listings “reflect improving
confidence and sentiment of issuers in the timing of the
market.”  Yusli, a charted accountant by training, has been CEO of
Bursa since 2004. He was CEO of CIMB Securities Sdn., part of
Malaysia’s second-biggest bank, from January 2000 to January
2004.  Investors have poured more than $355 million into Malaysian
equity funds on a net basis so far in 2010, according to
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based  EPFR Global , which collects data
from more than 600 funds.  Foreign Holdings  Foreigners in September increased their share of total
Malaysian equity holdings by 0.5 percentage points to 21.7
percent, the highest level since September 2008, CIMB Investment
Bank Bhd. analyst  Terence Wong  said on Oct. 27, citing stock
exchange data.  Inflows into emerging-market stock funds have surpassed $60
billion and exceeded $46 billion in bonds, with both poised for
their best year since EPFR started tracking them in 1995.  “It’s a reflection of the market’s ability to support
IPOs,” said  Christopher Wong , Singapore senior investment
manager at Aberdeen Asset Management Plc, which oversees $267
billion. “It’s the whole region taking advantage of this market
environment to raise money.”  The ringgit is the second-best performing currency in Asia
excluding Japan this year with a 10 percent gain against the
dollar.  Government Pledges  Government pledges to boost the economy have also spurred
the market, Bursa’s Yusli said. Prime Minister Najib Razak on
Sept. 21 said the government has identified private-led projects
worth $444 billion that can spur investments and accelerate
economic growth. The plans include developing a nuclear energy
industry, rail projects and a shopping district to rival
Singapore’s Orchard Road.  In June 2009, the government eased rules governing overseas
investors and initial public offerings in a bid to lure more
foreign money and shore up the economy. Najib has tried to
attract international investors to the country’s stock market by
listing large companies.  These have included  Malaysia Marine & Heavy Engineering
Holdings Bhd. , the rig-building arm of shipping group MISC Bhd.,
which raised 2 billion ringgit in October, and Petronas
Chemicals, whose sale is the biggest in Southeast Asia so far
this year.  “Malaysia is not known to be a cheap market and it has
done well,” Aberdeen’s Wong said. “It’s quite encouraging for
the Malaysian market to see appetite for risk.”  Secondary stock sales including a placement by a
shareholder in  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. , Malaysia’s second-
largest banking group, have totaled 3.35 billion ringgit so far
this year, compared with 3.5 billion ringgit in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  