-- Alwaleed, Kingdom Buy $500 Million General Motors Stake in Initial Sale
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2010-11-23T20:46:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/alwaleed-kingdom-buy-500-million-general-motors-stake-in-initial-sale.html
Saudi billionaire Prince  Alwaleed Bin Talal  and his Kingdom Holding Co. bought $500 million of
 General Motors Co.  shares through the automaker’s initial public
offering.  The 1 percent stake in Detroit-based GM was acquired
because of “the global strength of General Motors brand, the
relatively attractive offering price, and the company’s growth
prospects in Brazil and China,” the Riyadh, Saudi Arabia-based
company said today in an e-mailed statement.  GM’s owners, including the U.S. Treasury, sold shares at
$33 each in an IPO on Nov. 17. The automaker had filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on Nov. 3 to offer the shares
for $26 to $29 each. The company raised more than $20 billion in
common and preferred shares through the offering, which reduced
the U.S. government to a minority shareholder.  “You want to place shares with investors who aren’t going
to flip them immediately,” said  Matt Therian , a Greenwich,
Connecticut-based analyst at Renaissance Capital LLC, which has
studied IPOs since 1991. “With larger, international offerings,
you see cornerstone investors come in. Hopefully, they’ll be
stable shareholders and that should be a positive.”  Noreen Pratscher, a spokeswoman for GM, declined to
comment.  Shareholder Base  GM attracted a “high-quality shareholder base” with about
90 percent of shares held in North America, Chief Executive
Officer  Dan Akerson  said Nov. 18 in a Bloomberg Television
interview. The offering by GM came 16 months after the largest
U.S. automaker emerged from bankruptcy and brought Akerson
closer to his goal of returning the $49.5 billion the company
received in a taxpayer bailout last year.  After proceeds from GM’s IPO, the U.S. Treasury Department
has now received $252 billion in repayments related to the
Troubled Asset Relief Program, the department said in an e-
mailed statement.  GM said separately today it will introduce a 60-second
commercial with “serious and comic images of failure” followed
by “images of recovery, or comeback.” The advertisement
coincides with the Thanksgiving holiday celebrated on Nov. 25,
and will end “We all fall down. Thank you for helping us get
back up.”  Kingdom’s Investments  Kingdom Holding also has stakes in Apple Inc., Citigroup
Inc., News Corp. and PepsiCo Inc., according to the company’s
 website .  Alwaleed, 55, ranks 19th on Forbes magazine’s  list  of the
world’s richest billionaires, with an estimated net worth of
$19.4 billion as of March 10. Alwaleed owns  95 percent  of
Kingdom Holding, according to Bloomberg data.  Kingdom Holding restructured its business after struggling
through the global financial crisis. Riyadh-based Kingdom
Holding lowered its share capital by 41 percent to 37.1 billion
riyals ($9.89 billion) in February and offered on March 15 to
purchase the rest of the shares in Kingdom Hotel Investments.  GM’s investment bankers met with sovereign wealth funds and
private investors in the Middle East and Asia during its stock
sale, two people familiar with the meetings said in October.  SAIC Motor Corp ., GM’s Chinese partner, also acquired a
$500 million stake in the automaker through the IPO. The
purchase was made “on the basis of a good strategic partnership
between the two” and based on SAIC’s “confidence in GM’s
development prospects,” the Shanghai-based carmaker said in a
Nov. 18 e-mailed statement.  Kuwait Investment Authority, the country’s sovereign wealth
fund, decided against buying GM shares after the sale price was
raised, a person familiar with the matter said Nov. 21.  GM fell 83 cents to $33.25 at 3:34 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite  trading .  To contact the reporter on this story
 Craig Trudell  in New York at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at   shajimathew@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 