-- America Movil CFO Sees 50 Million Potential Mexico Mobile Banking Users
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2010-11-23T14:58:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/america-movil-cfo-sees-50-million-potential-mexico-bank-users.html
America Movil , Latin America’s
largest wireless carrier, will offer financial services to about
50 million people in Mexico who have mobile phones and no bank
accounts, Chief Financial Officer  Carlos Garcia Moreno  said.  That population is part of an “enormous” number of Latin
Americans who could use their wireless phones to store and
transfer money, Garcia Moreno said yesterday in a telephone
interview. The company is already working on the project, he
said, without providing details on when it would be available.  With financial services, America Movil is taking advantage
of its wireless Internet network to seek new opportunities for
growth in Latin America, as the number of mobile-phone users
nears 100 percent of the population. The company told investors
last week it expects to boost sales by 6 percent to 8 percent
each year through 2014, compared with an increase of 5.3 percent
last quarter from a year earlier.  “There are many more telephones than there are bank
accounts, and it’s important to bank all of those people that
already have a phone,” Garcia Moreno, 53, said. “The numbers are
enormous.”  Garcia Moreno said he based his estimate for the potential
size of the mobile-banking market on Mexico’s 86 million mobile-
phone users and 35 million people with bank accounts.  America Movil, controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim , had
217 million wireless clients at the end of September, including
62.4 million in Mexico, where it controls about 71 percent of
the market. The company last week forecast subscriber growth of
64 million lines through 2014, not including the U.S., where it
has 16.7 million users.  Market Share  The estimate for subscriber growth assumes America Movil
maintains its market share across Latin America, which may add
about 150 million wireless lines over the same period, Garcia
Moreno said.  America Movil fell 40 centavos to 35.13 pesos at 9:57 a.m.
New York time in trading in Mexico City, where it’s based.  The
shares  had risen 15 percent this year before today.  The company acquired Telmex Internacional SAB, also
controlled by Slim, earlier this year to gain cable-TV, Internet
and land-line phone networks in South America.  Slim, 70, has a traditional bank in Mexico. Grupo
Financiero Inbursa SAB is Mexico’s fifth-largest bank by loans
outstanding, according to government  statistics .  America Movil said last week that it plans to invest about
$8 billion a year in its networks through 2014 to prepare for
the growth in demand it anticipates for data services such as
Internet access. That’s higher than the forecast of analysts
including  Mauricio Fernandes  of Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill
Lynch unit, who predicted as much as $6.5 billion a year.  “They were looking at the investment expenses for last
year, which was a year of crisis and low growth, and the capital
expenditures reflected that,” Garcia Moreno said of analysts.
“This is a growth cap ex, a cap ex that you do because you have
demand. We have to do our work more quickly to be able to
support that demand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Crayton Harrison  in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  