-- Hana Offers Up to $4.1 Billion for Lone Star Stake in Korea Exchange Bank
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2010-11-23T08:33:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/hana-offers-up-to-4-1-billion-for-korea-exchange-stake-president-says.html
Hana Financial Group Inc.  offered as
much as 4.8 trillion won ($4.1 billion) for Lone Star Funds’
stake in Korea Exchange Bank in what would be South Korea’s
biggest domestic acquisition in four years.  Hana Financial bid between 4.5 trillion won and 4.8
trillion won for the 51 percent stake and will “negotiate until
the last minute for the price,’ President  Kim Jong Yeol  said in
a phone interview today. Hana, South Korea’s fourth-largest
financial-services company by assets, expects to complete the
purchase in two to three months, Kim said.  The bid values Korea Exchange Bank at as much as 18 percent
above today’s closing price and may see Hana top  Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. , which has been studying the lender’s
finances since at least August. ANZ Bank CEO  Mike Smith  is
unlikely to match a bid of more than 4.5 trillion won, a person
with knowledge of the matter said earlier today.  “In the financial business, securing competitive size is
important and this deal will help Hana obtain the scale,” said
 Kim Young Joon , head of equity at NH-CA Asset Management Co. in
Seoul, which manages the equivalent of $7.4 billion.  Lone Star’s stake in South Korea’s fifth-biggest bank is
worth 4.06 trillion won based on today’s  closing share price .  Hana Financial shareholder Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
supports the acquisition, said  Christopher Jun , a spokesman in
Seoul for the New York-based firm. Goldman Sachs is Hana’s
biggest investor with an 8.66 percent stake, according to an Oct.
25 filing by the Korean company.  Woori Deal Unlikely  Kim said Hana is unlikely to bid for a stake in rival Woori
Finance Holdings Inc. that South Korea’s government plans to
sell. Hana earlier expressed interest in acquiring the holding.  Hana Financial rose 5.7 percent to 37,000 won at the 3 p.m.
close in Seoul trading, the biggest gain since January. Korea
Exchange Bank dropped 4.3 percent to 12,350 won, and the
benchmark Kospi index lost 0.8 percent.  “Investors seem to be cheering Hana’s decision to buy KEB
rather than Woori as the KEB purchase would be less complex and
eventually cost less,” said  Hong Hun Pio , a banking analyst at
KTB Securities Co. in Seoul.  Hana will hold a board meeting tomorrow to approve the
purchase before making an official announcement, said a
spokesman who declined to be identified, citing company policy.  Smith’s Deals  Smith, who joined Melbourne-based ANZ Bank from HSBC
Holdings Plc,  bought assets  in the region from ING Groep NV and
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc since mid-2009 as part of a
plan to expand throughout Asia.  Paul Edwards , a Melbourne-based spokesman for ANZ Bank,
earlier today declined to comment beyond a Nov. 16 company
statement, in which ANZ Bank said it was continuing due
diligence for a possible acquisition.  Hana’s revived bid for Korea Exchange Bank -- four years
after a previous attempt failed -- may help Lone Star end a
five-year struggle to sell control of the Korean lender that’s
been delayed by investigations into the circumstances of the
fund’s 2003 purchase.  Purchasing Korea Exchange Bank may boost Hana’s assets to
316 trillion won from 200 trillion won, based on data from the
companies as of Sept. 30. That is still less than Woori Finance
Holdings Co.’s 332 trillion won and KB Financial Group Inc.’s
330 trillion won.  “The credit implications for Hana Bank in the event of
Hana Financial secures a bank are likely to be negative at least
in the short term absent any external solution to address
funding needs,” Moody’s Investors Service vice president
 Beatrice Woo  wrote in a Nov. 22 report.  HSBC Exit  Lone Star, the U.S. buyout fund controlled by  John Grayken ,
has tried for almost five years to sell its  holding  in Korea
Exchange Bank as regulators examined the circumstances
surrounding its investment in the Seoul-based lender.  HSBC in September 2008 abandoned a $6 billion purchase of
Korea Exchange Bank amid a widening global financial crisis.
That was the second blow to Lone Star after Kookmin Bank, now
part of KB Financial, walked away from talks to buy 65 percent
of Korea Exchange Bank in November 2006.  Since its 2003 purchase, Lone Star has recouped 1.87
trillion won of its total 2.15 trillion won investment in Korean
lender through a block sale and dividends after tax, according
to Korea Exchange Bank data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Seonjin Cha  in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  