-- Hana Financial Says Close to Purchasing KEB Stake, May Beat Out ANZ Bank
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2010-11-23T03:51:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/hana-financial-says-close-to-purchasing-keb-stake-raising-pressure-on-anz.html
Hana Financial Group Inc.  said it is
close to an agreement to buy a $3.7 billion stake in Korea
Exchange Bank, potentially beating out rival suitor  Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.   “We’ll likely sign a stake purchase agreement on Nov. 24
and it’ll be a binding one,” Hana’s Chief Executive Officer  Kim Seung Yu  said in a phone interview yesterday. Kim declined to
comment on the price for the 51 percent stake held by Dallas,
Texas-based Lone Star Funds or say how Hana will finance the
purchase. Hana shares jumped as much as 14 percent, the  biggest
gain  since March 2009.  The sale of Korea Exchange Bank pits Hana, which gets all
its  revenue  from South Korea, against ANZ Bank, run by a former
HSBC Holdings Plc executive and with operations in 15 Asian
countries. Hana will pay as much as 4.8 trillion won for the
stake, Yonhap News reported today, and ANZ Bank is unlikely to
match an offer of that size, said a person with knowledge of the
matter, declining to be identified.  “For ANZ, the KEB purchase would be one of many. But for
Hana, it’s the only chance to grow,” said  Ku Yong Uk , a banking
analyst at Daewoo Securities Co. in Seoul. “The more desperate
one who can expect more positives from the purchase would be
willing to pay a higher price.”  Lone Star’s 51 percent stake in South Korea’s fifth-biggest
bank is worth 4.2 trillion won ($3.7 billion), based on the
latest share price. ANZ Bank CEO  Mike Smith  has  bought assets  in
the region from ING Groep NV and Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc since mid-2009 as part of a plan to expand throughout Asia.  Shares Surge  Hana Financial rose 6.1 percent to 37,150 won as of 12:26
p.m. in Seoul trading after jumping as much as 14 percent. Korea
Exchange Bank dropped 0.4 percent to 12,850 won, and the
benchmark Kospi index lost 0.9 percent.  Hana will decide on the bid for either Korea Exchange Bank
or Woori Finance by Nov. 26, Hana Chairman Kim said on Nov. 16.
The Korea Deposit Insurance Corp., which owns 57 percent of
Woori, may receive preliminary bids for South Korea’s largest
financial company by assets by the end of this week as the 
government plans to privatize the firm.  Hana will hold a board meeting tomorrow to approve the
purchase before making an official announcement, said a
spokesman who declined to be identified, citing company policy.  ‘Cheering Hana’s Decision’  “Investors seem to be cheering Hana’s decision to buy KEB
rather than Woori as the KEB purchase would be less complex and
eventually cost less,” said Hong Hun Pio, a banking analyst at
KTB Securities Co. in Seoul.  Paul Edwards , a Melbourne-based spokesman for ANZ Bank,
declined to comment beyond a Nov. 16 company statement, in which
ANZ Bank said it was continuing due diligence for a possible
acquisition.  Hana’s revived bid for Korea Exchange Bank -- four years
after a previous attempt failed -- may help Lone Star end a
five-year struggle to sell control of the Korean lender that’s
been delayed by investigations into the circumstances of the
fund’s 2003 purchase.  Purchasing Korea Exchange Bank may boost Hana’s assets to
316 trillion won from 200 trillion won, based on data from the
companies as of Sept. 30. That is still less than Woori Finance
Holdings Co.’s 332 trillion won and KB Financial Group Inc.’s
330 trillion won.  Higher ROE  Korea Exchange Bank’s  return on equity , a key measure of
profitability, is 12 percent, higher than bigger local rivals
including  KB Financial Group Inc. , whose ROE is 3.2 percent, 
compared with 5.7 percent at Shinhan Financial Group Co. and 
and 3.3 percent at Hana Financial, according to Bloomberg data.
Korea Exchange Bank trades at a  price-to-book value  of 1.04, 
similar to KB Financial and Hana.  The reported 4.8 trillion won for the 51 percent stake in
Korea Exchange Bank would be 15 percent higher than the current
market price, based on today’s valuation.  “The credit implications for Hana Bank in the event of
Hana Financial secures a bank are likely to be negative at least
in the short term absent any external solution to address
funding needs,” Moody’s Investors Service vice president
 Beatrice Woo  wrote in a Nov. 22 report.  Lone Star, the U.S. buyout fund controlled by  John Grayken ,
has tried for almost five years to sell its  holding  in Korea
Exchange Bank as regulators examined the circumstances
surrounding its investment in the Seoul-based lender.  HSBC in September 2008 abandoned a $6 billion purchase of
Korea Exchange Bank amid a widening global financial crisis.
That was the second blow to Lone Star after Kookmin Bank, now
part of KB Financial, walked away from talks to buy 65 percent
of Korea Exchange Bank in November 2006.  Since its 2003 purchase, Lone Star has recouped 1.87
trillion won of its total 2.15 trillion won investment in Korean
lender through a block sale and dividends after tax, according
to Korea Exchange Bank data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Seonjin Cha  in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  