-- ANZ Bank Said to Seek Buyers for $489 Million of Centro Properties Debt
-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d   a n d   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2010-11-23T08:30:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/anz-bank-said-to-seek-buyers-for-489-million-of-centro-properties-debt.html
Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. is seeking to sell A$495 million ($489 million) of
loans owed to it by  Centro Properties Group , according to two
people familiar with the matter.  Australia’s third-biggest bank by market value may sell the
debt as soon as today, the people said, asking not to be
identified as the details are private. ANZ Bank declined to
comment, according to an e-mailed statement from the Melbourne-
based lender.  Centro, a shopping-mall owner that had A$18.4 billion of
debt as of June 30, said on Nov. 4 that a number of parties have
approached it with expressions of interest in its business and
assets. The group ceded control to creditors in 2008 as property
prices slumped and debt became more difficult to refinance amid
the global credit freeze.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia sold A$110 million of the
shopping-mall owner’s debt last week for about 56.5 cents in the
dollar, Sydney-based spokeswoman Nichole Ismay said today.  “We’re seeing an unprecedented interest from offshore
distressed debt funds in investing in Australia,” said Nick
Dunstone, Sydney-based restructuring partner at law firm Henry
Davis York, who said he couldn’t comment specifically on Centro
due to a conflict of interest.  Loan Sales  Australian banks have become more willing to sell loans
since the global financial crisis as they face credit
constraints and tougher regulations related to holding impaired
loans on their balance sheets, Dunstone said.  Centro, based in Melbourne, “is carrying an enormous debt
burden and does not have a sustainable capital structure,”
Chief Executive Officer  Robert Tsenin  said Nov. 17. “Centro
must be restructured and recapitalized and time is not on our
side.”  The group needs to refinance A$11.5 billion of borrowings
by the end of 2011, he said.  Former Centro CEO Andrew Scott borrowed to buy malls during
2006 and 2007, then spun off the assets into funds which Centro
managed for a fee. That backfired when debt costs spiked and
asset values slumped in the financial crisis, with banks
agreeing in December 2008 to work with the then owner of 650 U.S.
malls to avoid liquidation.  Centro shares dropped 3 percent to 16 Australian cents
today. They  peaked  at A$10.02 in May 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McDonald  in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net ;
 Angus Whitley  at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  