-- Argentina Turns to IMF for Help in Creating New National Inflation Index
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i   a n d   S i l v i a   M a r t i n e z
-- 2010-11-23T19:34:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/argentina-to-design-national-cpi-with-help-from-imf-update1-.html
Argentina, which has refused to let
the  International Monetary Fund  review its finances since 2006,
asked the lender to help design a national  consumer price index 
after years of doubts about the accuracy of its figures.  Technical staff from the Washington-based IMF will arrive
in Argentina in the first 15 days of December to help draw up an
index that will reflect regional differences in consumption
habits, said  Ana Maria Edwin , director of Argentina’s statistics
agency, known as Indec.  “There was a need to make this leap in quality so it could
represent what’s going on in the whole country,” Economy
Minister  Amado Boudou  told reporters today in Buenos Aires.  South America’s second-biggest economy reported on Nov. 12
that consumer prices rose 11.1 percent in October from a year
earlier. That’s less than half the 26 percent increase estimated
by Ecolatina, a research company in Buenos Aires. According to
this estimate, Argentina’s inflation is the fastest in the
region after Venezuela’s 27.6 percent.  Indec’s consumer price index, which measures prices in the
city of Buenos Aires and its outskirts, has been questioned by
private economists and politicians, including former Economy
Minister  Roberto Lavagna  and Vice President  Julio Cobos . They
say the government has been underreporting the rate of inflation
since January 2007, when then-President  Nestor Kirchner  made
personnel changes at the Buenos Aires-based statistics agency.  Basket of Goods  Boudou said in an interview with Bloomberg on April 14 that
Indec measures a basket of goods bought by lower-income
households.   The yield on the 5.83 percent inflation-linked peso bond
due in 2033 was unchanged at 7.75 percent as of 1:29 p.m. New
York time. The extra yield investors demand to hold Argentine
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries widened four basis
points, or 0.04 percentage points, to 541, the highest since
Nov. 17.  “This is a great opportunity to remove the stigma around
the integrity of Indec’s inflation figures,”  Alberto Ramos , an
economist at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . in New York, wrote in a
statement. “An IMF assisted revamping of the CPI provides the
authorities with the perfect opportunity to eventually start
reporting inflation figures that are on average close to the
non-official figures.”  Argentina has refused to let the IMF review its finances
since 2006, when the country paid off its $9.8 billion debt to
the lender.  Last week President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  said the
country will seek an accord with the Paris Club of creditor
nations to restructure about $6.7 billion in defaulted debt
without the IMF’s oversight.  “We haven’t settled anything with the IMF,” Boudou told
reporters today. “We have asked for technical assistance on one
particular issue in which they have expertise: the preparation
of statistics.”  The IMF acknowledged Argentina’s request in an e-mailed
statement. “We are currently in contact with the authorities on
planning the missions,” said the statement issued by Nicolas
Eyzaguirre, director of the IMF’s Western Hemisphere Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  