-- Asian Stocks Tumble to Lowest in Five-Weeks After North Korea Shells South
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 2010-11-23T10:49:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/asia-stocks-decline-on-concern-ireland-s-debt-crisis-may-spread-in-europe.html
Asian stocks  extended declines after
North and South Korea exchanged artillery fire. Shares also fell
on concern over Europe’s debt crisis and speculation China will
intensify efforts to tame inflation.  Standard Chartered Plc, which received 10 percent of its
2009 revenue from South Korea, slid 2.9 percent. Cnooc Ltd.,
China’s largest offshore oil producer, slumped 3.4 percent as
crude oil futures declined.  Hyundai Motor Co. , the largest Asian
carmaker in Europe this year, closed 3.1 percent lower in Seoul
before reports of the attack.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China Ltd. , the world’s largest lender by market value, dropped
2.3 percent in Hong Kong.  “A bubbling over of tensions in Korea is another layer of
uncertainty for markets that they don’t need to contend with,”
said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage about $1 billion at
Pengana Capital Ltd. in Melbourne. “There’s enough going on in
terms of European debt problems and Chinese inflation without
having to deal with erupting geopolitical tensions. It’s
probably just another trigger point for people to sell.”  The  MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan Index  declined 2.3
percent to 454.17 as of 6:45 p.m. in Hong Kong, headed for its
lowest close since Oct. 5. Japanese markets are closed for a
holiday today. Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index  dropped 2.7 percent,
the most since May 25.  The MSCI Asian gauge rose 12 percent this year through
yesterday on speculation growth in corporate profits will
weather Europe’s debt crisis, Chinese steps to curb inflation
and concern about the pace of the U.S. economic rebound.  Rising Tension  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index and New Zealand’s  NZX 50
Index  fell 1.2 percent. South Korea’s  Kospi Index  fell 0.8
percent. All three markets had closed for trading when news of
the North Korean attack on the South broke. South Korea
scrambled fighter jets and returned fire after North Korea fired
shells into its territory, injuring 14 soldiers.  Tensions with nuclear-armed North Korea have risen this
year following the sinking of a South Korean warship in March
that the U.S. and its allies blamed on a torpedo attack.
President Barack Obama dispatched his envoy on the country,
Stephen Bosworth, to Asian capitals this week after reports by a
U.S. scientist that North Korea had revealed to him a
“stunning” new uranium-enrichment plant.  Standard Chartered slipped 2.9 percent to HK$219.  STX Pan
Ocean Co. , South Korea’s biggest bulk carrier, dropped 1.4
percent to S$13.90 in Singapore.  China Interest Rates  China’s  Shanghai Composite Index  sank 1.9 percent as
China’s benchmark money-market rate rose to the highest level in
almost seven weeks on speculation policy makers will lift
borrowing costs again after raising lenders’ reserve
requirements last week to tame inflation.  Futures on the U.S.  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  fell 0.7
percent. U.S. stocks retreated in New York yesterday, ending a
three-day gain in the  S&P 500 , amid speculation a European
bailout of Ireland will fail to stem Europe’s debt crisis and as
federal agents raided hedge funds to probe insider trading. The
 S&P 500  lost 0.2 percent to 1,197.84 as of 4 p.m. in New York.
The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  slipped 24.97 points, or 0.2
percent, to 11,178.58.  Moody’s Investors Service said the Ireland bailout, which
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. estimates may total 95 billion euros
($129 billion), may increase Ireland’s debt burden and pose a
“credit negative” for the country.  Irish Government Resigns  The rescue package failed to damp speculation that Portugal
and Spain would follow Ireland in tapping the fund set up by the
European Union and International Monetary Fund after the Greece
rescue.  Irish Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  said his government will
resign after passing the country’s budget, responding to calls
from the  Green Party  for January elections amid voter discontent
at his handling of the crisis.  “The admission by the Irish that they need financial aid
is not unexpected, and nor is the negative stance taken by
ratings agencies,” said  Angus Gluskie , who manages about $350
million at White Funds Management Pty. in Sydney. “Attention
has now turned to Spain and Portugal and investors may fret
about risks for those countries until a satisfactory level of
assurance about their financial outlook can be convincingly
given.”  ‘Big Structural Problems’  There’s a “substantial risk” that Portugal will have to
follow Ireland into a European rescue, said  Ralph Solveen , an
economist at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “They have problems
to reach their deficit goal this year, they have big structural
problems and therefore they will still be in the focus of the
market.”  A gauge of energy companies posted the third-biggest
decline among the 10 industry groups in the MSCI Asia Pacific
excluding Japan Index.      Cnooc declined 3.4 percent to
HK$17.10. PetroChina Co., the country’s biggest energy company,
slumped 3.3 percent to HK$9.44. BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s
largest mining company, slipped 1.7 percent to A$43.14.  Jiangxi
Copper Co. , China’s No. 1 producer of the metal, decreased 3.4
percent to HK$22.95.  Crude for January delivery fell as much as 84 cents, or 1
percent, to $80.90 a barrel in electronic trading on the New
York Mercantile Exchange. It was at $81.32 at 3:17 p.m.
Singapore time.  Copper for three-month delivery on the London Metal
Exchange declined 0.5 percent to $8,245.25 a metric ton at 10:32
a.m. Singapore time. The metal for March delivery on the
Shanghai Futures Exchange slumped 2.9 percent to 61,610 yuan
($9,271).  Chinese Lenders  Hyundai Motor, South Korea’s biggest automaker, declined
3.1 percent to 175,000 won.  Kia Motors Corp. , the No. 2, sank
1.6 percent to 49,800 won. HTC Corp., the Taiwanese handset
maker that gets about 32 percent of sales from Europe, slipped
1.5 percent to NT$863.  Shares of Chinese lenders extended their decline for a
third day after the central bank said on Nov. 19 it would
increase the reserve ratio by 50 basis points from Nov. 29.
China’s biggest banks are also close to reaching annual lending
quotas and plan to stop expanding their loan books to avoid
exceeding the limits, according to four people with knowledge of
the matter.  ICBC, dropped 2.3 percent to HK$5.90 in Hong Kong.  China
Construction Bank Corp. , the nation’s second-largest lender,
decreased 2.5 percent to HK$7.05. Bank of China Ltd., the third-
biggest, declined 4 percent to HK$4.10.  Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s cabinet last week announced it will
sell grain, cooking-oil and sugar reserves, ordered an end to
tolls on trucks carrying produce and threatened price controls
to rein in a 10 percent inflation rate for food.  The People’s Bank of China has raised its benchmark
interest rates once this year, lagging behind Malaysia, Thailand,
Taiwan and South Korea as emerging Asian economies led the
global economic rebound. Chinese policy makers have instead
relied on guidance to banks to scale back lending and on
increases in reserve ratios, with the central bank announcing
the  fifth boost  of the year four days ago.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan Burgos  in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 