-- AT&T, Verizon Pension Estimates Are Low, Analyst Says
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2010-11-23T21:09:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/at-t-verizon-pension-estimates-may-be-too-low-bernstein-says.html
AT&T Inc. and  Verizon Communications
Inc. , the two largest U.S. phone carriers, may be
underestimating obligations to their pension funds, Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. said.  The two companies have projected higher returns on their
investments and lower growth in expenses than most of their
peers in the Standard & Poor’s 500 index, which may force them
to make unexpected cash payments, said  Craig Moffett , an analyst
at Sanford Bernstein in New York.  AT&T  and Verizon have the two largest unfunded liabilities
for retired employees in the S&P 500, accounting for almost 12
percent of the pension gap for the entire index, Moffett said.
The two companies are using “aggressive” methods to predict
the amount of money they’ll need to spend on retiree health care
and pensions, and the interest rates the funds are likely to
receive, Moffett said.  “At the end of the day, what you worry about is the
ability of these companies to continue to earn attractive
returns,” said Moffett, who  rates  Verizon “underperform” and
AT&T “market perform.” “The wireless business has to run very
fast to outpace these enormous legacy obligations.”  Verizon doesn’t expect to make “material” contributions
to its pension fund this year and can’t comment beyond that,
spokesman  Bob Varettoni  said in an interview. The company funds
the benefit on a pay-as-you-go basis from operating cash flows.  “During 2010, there have been many moving parts that would
impact pension funding in future years, specifically the spinoff
of the wireline business to Frontier and also the voluntary
separation packages” that employees received as Verizon cut
jobs, he said. Verizon sold 4.8 million rural phone lines this
year to Frontier Communications Corp. in an $8.6 billion deal.  AT&T declined to comment through spokeswoman  McCall Butler .  Largest Employers  Moffett was No. 1 in Institutional Investor magazine’s
annual ranking for the fifth straight year among analysts
covering cable and satellite companies. Besides Verizon and
AT&T, he covers companies such as Comcast Corp. and DirecTV.  Verizon and AT&T have such large obligations because of
pensioners from the days when the U.S. phone system was one of
the largest employers in the nation.  Verizon  had 222,900
employees and 213,000 retirees at the end of last year.  Verizon’s pension plan cost the New York-based company
$1.88 billion in the first nine months of this year, up from
$722 million a year earlier, according to  regulatory filings .
AT&T, based in Dallas, spent $868 million on pension and post-
retirement plans in the same period, down from $1.55 billion in
2009 as interest costs fell.  Verizon  fell  11 cents to $32.39 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The stock has risen 4.6 percent this
year. AT&T lost 26 cents to $28.03 and is unchanged this year.  Estimating Payments  Chief financial officers  calculate their pension
obligations by estimating the return on the accounts they’ve set
up to pay out benefits, as well as future obligations to
employees, said  Robert Willens , president of the Robert Willens
tax and accounting service and author of articles on accounting.  They set estimates for the pension accounts’ investment
returns and compare them with the benefits currently being paid,
predictions for salary increases, the number of pensioners the
company will have to cover over time, retiree life expectancies
and other statistics, he said.  The projected interest rates, known as the discount rate in
pension accounting, can make a big difference in the amount of
money a company has to save for pensions. A company who chooses
a higher discount rate is predicting that its fund will have
higher returns over time. This cuts the amount it has to save
today. A lower discount rate is a more conservative estimate of
the account’s returns.  Investors  Investors tend to ignore pension obligations since they are
small relative to the phone companies’ size, and the carriers
usually single out the expense when they report earnings, said
 Christopher King , an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in
Baltimore. Verizon reported $25.2 billion in  cash flow  from
operations in the first nine months of the year. AT&T took in
$25.4 billion.  The stock market has done well this year, increasing the
returns on the companies’ funds, King said. Carriers also have
reduced employees who have pension agreements, typically workers
on the declining, fixed-line phone service side of the business,
lowering future obligations, he said.  “Any type of contribution would be rather meaningless in
the grand scheme of things,” said King, who advises investors
to buy shares of Verizon and  AT&T . “Investors will kind of
overlook that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  