-- Australian Medium-Sized Miners May Look to Acquisitions as Cash Doubles
-- B y   R e b e c c a   K e e n a n
-- 2010-11-23T00:53:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/australian-medium-sized-miners-may-look-to-acquisitions-as-cash-doubles.html
Australian medium-sized mining
companies including  OZ Minerals Ltd.  and  MacArthur Coal Ltd .
have doubled their cash holdings to about A$7.3 billion and may
buy assets and expand mines even as Chinese companies eye them
as acquisition targets, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP said.  Mid-cap mining companies had a 32 percent increase in
revenue to A$11.3 billion in the year to June 30 because of
stronger prices for some metals, PricewaterhouseCoopers said in
a report today looking at the top 50 mining companies with a
market capitalization of less than A$5 billion.  Metal prices  have gained 23 percent in this half as demand,
led by China, rebounds prompting companies to increase their
production by expansion or acquisition. Merger and acquisition
activity in the sector next year may outstrip this year, MF
Global said last month.  “The mid-tier 50 are well-poised for growth and many are
planning to invest their cash reserves into project development
and expansion activities, as well as mergers and acquisitions,”
 Tim Goldsmith , PricewaterhouseCooper’s Australian and global
mining leader, said in the report. Total borrowings of this
group fell 17 percent to A$5.5 billion, according to the report.  Still, these companies are also targets for Chinese groups
looking to buy Australian-listed operators that have assets in
Africa, PricewaterhouseCoopers said, without giving any names.  “We expect to see more Chinese and others taking strategic
stakes in producing or near production miners or arranging
alternative funding, such as an off-take agreement accompanied
by large project based debt funding package,” the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Keenan  in Melbourne at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  