-- Australia to Study Overseas Investment in Farms Amid Food Security Concern
-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 2010-11-23T02:45:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/australia-studies-foreign-farm-ownership-amid-community-concern-about-food.html
Australia,  the world’s biggest wool
shipper and second-largest dairy and beef exporter, will study
the level of overseas investment in its farms amid concern over
foreign ownership and food security.  The Australian Bureau of Statistics will survey 171,000
agricultural businesses next year, Assistant Treasurer  Bill Shorten  said last night. The Rural Industries Research and
Development Corp. will carry out a separate study on the history
of foreign investment in the sector and the reasons behind it.  “This process will address some community concerns,”
Shorten said in an e-mailed statement. “Whether there really
are foreign ownership issues to be concerned by here or whether
there is actually a gap developing between anxiety and reality
is the key question.”  Nations are seeking extra farmland to meet a forecast 70
percent increase in food production expected in the next four
decades. New Zealand in September tightened rules for major
international purchases of farmland, requiring buyers to show
how it would benefit the economy, amid a community backlash.  Australia’s Foreign Investment Review Board this month
approved Singapore-based  Wilmar International Ltd. ’s A$1.75
billion ($1.73 billion) purchase of  CSR Ltd. ’s sugar business,
the nation’s largest producer of the sweetener.  The board last month cleared the A$1.2 billion takeover of
 AWB Ltd. , the nation’s largest wheat exporter, by Calgary-based
Agrium Inc.  ABB, Viterra  This year’s takeovers followed the A$1.6 billion purchase
in 2009 of  ABB Grain Ltd. , the country’s largest barley exporter,
by  Viterra Inc.  based in Regina, Saskatchewan.  Real estate agents in April said Chinese investment in the
nation’s  farms  increased 10-fold in the previous six months.
Geoff Hickson, real estate manager at Landmark Operations Ltd.,
also said at the time his company had started to use Mandarin
translators.  Australia’s agriculture industry represents about 12
percent of the A$1.2 trillion economy and the country has some
of the largest farms in the world. Anna Creek, a South Australia
state cattle  ranch  measuring 23,677 square kilometers (9,142
square miles), or almost the size of Belgium, is the country’s
biggest.  Existing  government data  shows 99 percent of crop and dairy
farms are family operated. Of the remaining 1 percent, around
0.1 percent are foreign owned.  Miners in Australia, also the biggest coal and iron ore
shipper, are also being targeted. Foreign acquisitions of
Australian mining companies this year to date is at $15.34
billion, compared with $16.8 billion in 2009, according to
Bloomberg data. Canada’s Goldcorp Inc.’s C$3.6 billion bid for
Andean Resources Ltd. is the biggest deal so far this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gemma Daley  in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  