-- Banks Post $14.5 Billion Profit, Smallest Since 2009
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2010-11-23T17:16:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/banks-post-14-5-billion-profit-smallest-since-2009-update1-.html
U.S. banks posted their smallest
profit since the fourth quarter of last year after one of the
nation’s biggest lenders took a $10.4 billion writedown, the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. said.  Bank profits totaled $14.5 billion in the three-month
period that ended Sept. 30, a decrease from $21.6 billion
reported three months earlier, the FDIC said today in its third-
 quarter report .  “Problem” banks -- those at heightened risk of failure --
rose 3.7 percent to 860 in the third quarter, the most in 17
years. Banks on the confidential list had $379.2 billion in
assets as of Sept. 30, the FDIC said.  “Credit performance has been improving, and we remain
cautiously optimistic about the outlook,” FDIC Chairman  Sheila Bair  said in a statement. “It is too early for institutions to
be reducing reserves without strong evidence of sustainable,
improving loan performance and reduce loss rates.”  Bank of America Corp. ’s card services reported a $9.87
billion loss compared with a $955 million loss a year earlier
because of a goodwill charge of $10.4 billion. The FDIC didn’t
identify the bank in question in the report.  Loan-loss reserves declined for the first time since the
fourth quarter of 2006, the FDIC said. Total reserves fell by
$9.6 billion, as large banks reduced loan-loss provisions, the
agency said.  The deficit at the agency’s deposit insurance fund narrowed
to $8 billion during the third quarter from $15.2 billion.  ‘Cleaning Up’  “The industry has come a long way in cleaning up balance
sheets, building capital, and adjusting to changes in financial
markets and the economy,” Bair said. “The adjustments are not
over, and this is no time for complacency.”  James Chessen , chief economist for the Washington-based
American Bankers Association, said the report shows “strong
industry-wide improvement and the continuing build-up of
underlying strength.”  “Today’s report reaffirms that the banking industry is
indeed regaining its footing in spite of the still-fragile
economy,” Chessen said today in a statement.  Contingent Liabilities  Bair, whose agency is working with other regulators to
developing guidance for banks dealing with problem mortgages,
said claims that banks mishandled foreclosure documents have
“raised new questions about contingent liabilities.”  “If these issues are not addressed promptly, the resulting
slowdown in resolving problem mortgages could delay the recovery
of U.S. housing markets,” she said.  Bank of America, Ally Financial Inc. and  JPMorgan Chase &
Co.  temporarily halted foreclosures to investigate whether
employees acted improperly in using so-called robo-signers to
validate foreclosure documents. Attorneys general in all 50
states opened an investigation last month into whether banks and
loan servicers used faulty documents to seize homes.  The FDIC insured deposits at 7,760 lenders with $13.4
trillion in assets at the end of the third quarter. The
insurance fund is used to reimburse customers for deposits of as
much as $250,000 when a bank fails.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Meera  Louis in Washington at 
 Mlouis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  