-- Bank of Ireland Plunges on Concern Shareholders Will be Diluted in Bailout
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n   a n d   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2010-11-23T18:29:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/bank-of-ireland-plunges-22-percent-on-capital-injection-concerns.html
Bank of Ireland Plc , Ireland’s
largest bank, fell to a 20-month low on concern that
shareholders will be diluted in any government bailout.  Bank of Ireland slid 23 percent to 30 cents in Dublin
dropping 19 percent yesterday.  Allied Irish Banks Plc , the
country’s second-largest lender, fell 19 percent to 33 cents and
 Irish Life & Permanent Plc , which has avoided a bailout so far,
fell 10 percent to 75.3 cents.  Irish banks may get immediate capital injections as part of
the European Union and International Monetary Fund’s rescue
package,  Matthew Elderfield , the country’s head of financial
regulation, said in a speech yesterday. Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said on Nov. 18 that the government was considering a
“contingency fund” that banks could tap for additional funds.  “That the banks will be obliged to raise further capital
now looks assured,”  Emer Lang , an analyst at Dublin-based
securities firm Davy, wrote in a note today. “The timing of any
increase will hinge on the balance struck between ‘immediate’
additional capital injections and ‘top-ups’.”  Irish banks forced the government to seek the bailout after
loan impairments surged following the collapse of the country’s
decade-long real estate boom in 2008. That year, the government
pledged to back most liabilities, including all deposits in
Irish banks, a promise that led the government to inject 33
billion euros ($45 billion) to support the lenders. As loan
losses climbed, the government put the cost of the rescue at 50
billion euros in September this year, fueling investor doubts
that Ireland could afford the rescue.  ‘Awaken Doubts’  It is “unsatisfactory that expected losses” among the
banks “are clearly higher than provisions already taken” and
that any discrepancies “may awaken doubts in the minds of
investors,” Central Bank Governor  Patrick Honohan  told a
Chartered Accountants Ireland meeting in Dublin today.
“Uncertainty about whether banks have” more losses on their
books “certainly argues for higher percentage capital
targets,” he said.  Banks may struggle to raise money from private investors,
analysts said. The five-member ISEQ Financial Index has fallen
about 98 percent from its peak in February 2007. Bank of Ireland
completed a 2.9 billion-euro fundraising in June that gave the
government a 36 percent stake in the lender. The state is also
preparing to take a majority holding in Allied Irish by the end
of the year.  “The government is really the only plausible provider of
capital to the banks at this stage,” said  Ciaran Callaghan , an
analyst at Dublin-based NCB Stockbrokers. “Bank of Ireland
would find it very difficult to carry out another share sale in
the current environment. There is no visibility around what
assets it may be required to sell, and hence its future income
streams.”  Lenihan said yesterday the government will force banks to
shrink their operations and sell assets as part of restructuring
linked to an EU and IMF bailout.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Finbarr Flynn   at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net . 