-- Bharti Airtel’s Kenyan Unit Plans 3G Rollout in First Quarter
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2010-11-23T11:38:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/bharti-airtel-s-kenya-unit-plans-3g-rollout-in-first-quarter-to-boost-data.html
Bharti Airtel Ltd. ’s Kenyan mobile-
phone unit will begin rolling out 3G services in the first
quarter of 2011 as part of a push for more customers and a
return to profit at its unprofitable African operations.  New products will include e-mail and e-commerce services,
Rene Meza, managing director of Airtel Networks Kenya Ltd., said
in an interview yesterday in Nairobi, the capital. Airtel is
considering subsidizing laptops and Internet-enabled handsets to
drive data use in East Africa’s biggest economy, he said.  “We have finalized planning for 3G and we expect to have
the services rolled at the end of the first quarter, which will
change mobile telephony in the country,” Meza said.  Mobile operators in  Kenya  are becoming more reliant on data
for revenue after the industry regulator in August halved the
rates that operators charge each other to connect voice calls
across networks to 2.21 shillings. That triggered a round of
cuts in call costs by companies to less than 2 shillings per
minute and in some cases free calls during off-peak hours.  Airtel suffered losses as a result of the reduction in call
charges, though the company is keen for those tariffs to remain
low as it seeks to grow market share, Meza said.  Airtel Kenya, rebranded from Zain Kenya after Bharti’s $9
billion acquisition of most of Zain’s African assets in June,
competes with  Safaricom Ltd. , Kenya’s biggest mobile-phone
company, and Telkom Kenya Ltd., a unit of France Telecom SA.  Data Revenue  Safaricom is currently the only operator of a third-
generation telecommunications network in Kenya. Bharti has a
license to operate a 3G network, while Telkom Kenya will receive
a similar permit tomorrow, the Communications Commission of
Kenya said today.  Operators are betting that increased data traffic will make
up for the lower voice revenue and are offering customers
laptops, net books or smart phones to attract new clients.  By 2015, there will be 265 million mobile broadband
subscriptions in Africa, up from about 12 million at the end of
September, according to  Informa Telecoms & Media , a London-based
research group.  Airtel Africa plans to double its subscriber base to 100
million in two years time as it looks to return to
profitability, said Chief Executive Officer Jayant Khosla.
Losses at Bharti’s African units, including investment-holding
companies for its mobile operations on the continent, totaled
3.79 billion rupees ($83 million) in the three months through
September, according to accounts published on its  website .  “Our immediate goal is to grow the customer base which we
intend to achieve by retaining the low tariff charges, focusing
on potential customers at the bottom of the pyramid and
providing more additional services to the existing services,”
Khosla said at a presentation yesterday in Nairobi.  Bharti has operations in 16 African countries with about
459 million people and a mobile customer base of 185 million
people, according to Bharti’s website. Airtel had 40 million
customers in those markets at the end of the second quarter, it
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Johnstone Ole Turana  in Nairobi via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 