-- Billionaire Triguboff Remakes Skyline, Challenges Aussie Dream
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2010-11-24T08:30:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/billionaire-triguboff-remakes-skyline-challenges-aussie-dream.html
In 1963,  Harry Triguboff  decided to
challenge the Great Australian Dream of owning a house on a
quarter-acre block.  “I looked around and I saw cottages everywhere,” the 77-
year-old billionaire said of his decision to start building. “I
thought it was time they lived in apartments.”  Since then, his closely held  Meriton Pty.  has grown to be
Australia’s biggest apartment developer, providing units for
more than 150,000 people in the nation of 22 million. In Sydney,
about three in every 100 people live in an apartment that
Meriton built, to the consternation of some residents and local
governments who complain their suburbs have become overcrowded
because of his developments.  “He delivers units affordably priced, close to the city
center or near railway stations, and he does it on a bigger
scale than anyone else,” said  Bob Carr , who opposed some of
Triguboff’s plans during his 1995 to 2005 stint as premier of
New South Wales state. “He’s giving people a choice.”  Triguboff’s strategy is to build the tallest apartment
blocks he can get approval for in suburbs where people can
afford them. He’s relying on demand in a nation facing a
shortage of 200,000 dwellings a year, where the average home
costs 6.8 times annual median household income -- more than
double the U.S. ratio of 2.9 times, according to the annual
Demographia International Housing Affordability  Survey .  Where rivals such as  Australand Property Group  have
retreated as debt costs spiked during the financial crisis,
Meriton has gobbled up a bigger slice of the apartment market by
managing every step of the building and sale process and
financing projects internally.  Triguboff’s Battles  Triguboff today is Australia’s fifth-richest man with a
fortune of about A$4.2 billion ($4.14 billion) according to  BRW
Magazine . To get there, the son of Russian Jewish emigrants has
had to battle governments, rival developers, and a cultural
preference for standalone homes, he said in an interview in his
Sydney office, which is adorned with photos of himself with
George H. W. Bush, Bill Clinton, Princess Diana, Shimon Peres,
John Howard and other statesmen.  His quest to change the way Australians live is now
stepping up a gear as Meriton embarks on some of its largest
projects to date. They include the 77-story  Infinity  Tower,
Brisbane’s tallest residential building, and the 2,000-unit
 Victoria Square  apartment development in Zetland, an inner
Sydney suburb.  Not everyone welcomes the developments. Gabbi Kearney, a
40-year-old mother of two in Zetland, has reservations about the
spread of high-rise buildings in her neighborhood, where Meriton
is finishing up the first, 320-apartment building.  Overcrowding Concerns  “There are more people now and a feeling of being
overcrowded,” she said in a park a few blocks from her house as
her children played. “There are a lot of renters and university
students. It’s not catering to the family market at all.”  Apartments in  Meriton’s developments  -- which range from
A$270,000 for a studio to more than A$1 million for the most
expensive three-bedroom units -- generally come fitted with
stainless steel kitchen appliances, air-conditioning systems and
mirrored wardrobes in the bedrooms. They range from 60 square
meters (646 square feet) to 70 square meters for a one-bedroom
unit, and up to 130 square meters for three-bedroom apartments.  Buyers tend to be under 40, traditionally young
professionals and single people, with many from Asian countries
including China, Korea, Singapore and Indonesia, according to
the company. Meriton is attracting more young families, as many
developments now include child-care centers, it said.  Globe Trotting  Triguboff was born in Dalian, China, in 1933 and came to
Australia with his family in 1948, just before Mao Zedong’s
communist revolution. He attended high school in Sydney;
university in  Leeds , England; worked for a textiles company in
South Africa; entered a carpet manufacturing business with his
father and brother in Israel (which he left because they
“didn’t get along,” he said); then returned to Australia in
his mid-20s, where he drove a taxi and owned a milk delivery
service.  His youth may help explain a decision to confine Meriton’s
projects to the eastern Australian states of NSW and Queensland:
“I don’t want to spend my time running around,” Triguboff,
wearing an open-necked white business shirt, said in the
interview.  After a stint in property sales -- he says he made a “very
bad salesman” -- Triguboff tried development instead. He took a
loan to buy his first block of land in 1963 in  Tempe , an inner-
west industrial suburb of Sydney under the flight path of the
nation’s busiest airport, and built a block of eight units,
learning the construction process onsite.  Meriton Street  “In this business, you don’t have to be an architect or an
engineer or a brick layer,” he said. “But you have to
understand how the money flows. That you can only understand if
you’re on the site.”  About five years later, Triguboff built a block of 18 units
on  Meriton Street  in Gladesville, a northern Sydney suburb,
which provided the name of the company he registered in 1968.  He listed Meriton on the Australian stock exchange, then
 bought  the shares back about 1 1/2 years later in January 1974
as the company’s success and the appeal of being his own master
grew.  In the 1980s, Triguboff decided to only buy during slumps
and sell during booms, and to only build in areas that already
had infrastructure to support developments. Meriton had enough
assets to cover all its debt by the 1980s, and by about 2000 it
was debt free and funding its own projects, which proved vital
seven years later when the financial crisis hit.  Path Cleared  Competitors -- including  Stockland , Australia’s biggest
diversified property group, and  Australand , backed by
Singapore’s  CapitaLand Ltd.  -- moved away from the apartment
industry as financing costs spiked. Meriton kept on developing
and has now built more than 60,000 apartments.  “In the middle of the global financial crisis, when
everyone else was shutting down, he’d built up his business to a
point where he could keep building without skipping a beat,”
said  Aaron Gadiel , chief executive officer of the  Urban
Taskforce , a developers’ industry group. “He correctly
anticipated that demand for his kind of apartments, those
affordable to the average homebuyer, wouldn’t slacken.”  Medium- and high-density housing accounts for about 35
percent of sales in Australia’s capital cities, RP Data
estimates, up from about 25 percent in 1995. In NSW, 20.5
percent of people lived in apartments in 2008, according to the
latest data from the statistics bureau, compared with 14.3
percent in 2000.  Housing Shortage  The Reserve Bank of Australia raised its benchmark interest
rate by a quarter percentage point to 4.75 percent on Nov. 2,
its seventh increase since October 2009. Home prices in the
eight major cities, including Sydney, had surged 18.4 percent in
the year to June 30, according to the statistics bureau.  Sydney’s population is forecast to rise to about 6 million
by 2036, according to the NSW  Planning  Department, from about
4.5 million now. The nation’s most populous state is expected to
have a shortage of 232,600 homes by 2020 under current building
patterns, industry group  Housing Industry Association  estimates.
Australia’s housing shortage will balloon to 466,000 in the same
period, the HIA says, from about 200,000 now.  Triguboff says he can’t convince enough local governments
to approve his planned developments, leaving him with cash to
spare. To put the money to use, he’s investing more in
properties he’s already built, with Meriton owning about 4,000
apartments, an increase from about 500 in 2000.  Meriton declined to disclose its earnings for the last
financial year as it is a private company.  ‘Gung-ho’  Triguboff’s desire to transform the way Australians live --
he has been  quoted  as saying Sydney has “too many forests and
parks” and called for a population of  100 million  for the
nation -- has seen him butt heads, most notably with a man he
describes as a “great friend:” Carr, the former NSW premier.  “He’s gung-ho for population growth, to grow bigger and
bigger,” Carr said in a phone interview. “I have severe
reservations.”  Harvey Rose , the mayor of the northern beaches suburb of
Pittwater, is among those currently resisting Triguboff. Meriton
is planning a 16-building development there, nine of which would
be five stories. That exceeds the current three-level limit in
the area, and the proposed number of units is about three times
the current density limit, Rose said.  “Meriton’s proposal is totally out of kilter with what
Pittwater’s about, and will be opposed by an overwhelming number
of people in Pittwater, and all of the council,” Rose said in a
telephone interview.  Hands On  Triguboff remains a hands-on managing director, visiting
building sites daily. About a dozen people, in charge of
construction, planning, property management and other parts of
the business, report to him every day with poster-sized sheets
detailing progress of their divisions. Triguboff, who doesn’t
use a computer, reviews these and adds feedback.  Kent Medwin, one of three winners of the “Win a Week With
a Billionaire” competition sponsored by  BRW Magazine , shadowed
Triguboff in September. He said the biggest surprise was
Triguboff’s involvement in the finest details of Meriton
projects.  “He’s engaged in the color selections and designs,
elevations, right down to the fine details, unit layouts,
bedroom sizes,” Medwin, 32, who runs  Rock Property , a
residential property investor and developer in Hobart, Tasmania,
said in a telephone interview. “What he enjoys most is the
building process. He’s a builder deep down.”  Also on display was Triguboff’s legendary abruptness.  “He doesn’t use a lot of words and the words he does use
are often four-letter words,” he said. “New staff are probably
a bit shocked by it, but most of them seem used to it.”  ‘Bigger and Bigger’  Triguboff is married to his second wife and has two
daughters, none of whom have any interest in the business, he
said. One of his four grandchildren, Ella, 25, holds promise as
a potential successor, he said, “but I want her to be involved
in more things first.”  Until then, Triguboff, who says he’ll never retire --
“they’ll have to carry me out” -- plans to keep building,
making Meriton “bigger and bigger.” He occasionally looks back,
visiting apartment blocks the company built decades ago to watch
residents go about their lives.  “I just enjoy looking at them,” he said. “I’ve changed
Sydney. It’s my city, my people. I’m theirs. We belong to each
other.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nichola Saminather  in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Malcolm Scott at 
 mscott23@bloomberg.net  