-- Black Swans Abound as North Korea Lobs Shells: William Pesek
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2010-11-23T22:15:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/black-swans-abound-as-north-korea-lobs-shells-commentary-by-william-pesek.html
Psychological denial is a powerful
thing. Politicians fall prey to it before big elections,
investors do at the peak of asset bubbles and entire populations
do when a grave, shadowy danger looms.  Jared Diamond  summed it up as well as anyone in his 2005
book “Collapse.” The Pulitzer Prize-winner wrote of a large
dam sitting high above a river valley and the counterintuitive
feelings of local inhabitants. Polls often show that those
residing miles away from the dam fear it breaking more than
those living at its base. Talk about denial.  I often recall his observations while walking the streets
of Seoul. Isn’t it odd that we in Tokyo or folks in Washington
tend to fear  Kim Jong Il ’s missiles more than those residing 35
kilometers (22 miles) away from North Korea?  That denial was shattered yesterday when North Korea lobbed
artillery shells at South Korea. It showed that the fallout from
North Korea’s crazed action is coming to a market near you soon.  If there’s anything we know about Kim’s regime it’s how
little we know about what’s going on within it. We don’t even
know whether Kim approved the attack that killed two soldiers
and set hundreds of houses ablaze. Some observers argue it may
be the work of rogue generals with little interest in Kim’s son,
 Kim Jong Un , replacing his ailing father. It’s anyone’s guess.  Three Considerations  Here are three early implications of yesterday’s skirmish
worth considering. One, this is a blow to South Korea’s
otherwise booming economy, one that might have credit-rating
consequences. Two, it puts China on the hot seat as rarely
before to rein in officials in Pyongyang. Three, it’s a reminder
that geopolitical risks abound in  Asia .  South Korea’s finance ministry set up a 24-hour emergency
financial market monitoring system. Officials said they are
scrutinizing Korean indexes and any moves by credit-rating
companies and foreign investors. Really, how many nations need
to run an economic war room? That offers some insight into where
 Lee Myung Bak  finds himself.  The South Korean president was on such a high earlier this
month after the impressive staging of the Group of 20 summit.
And now, just days after U.S. and Chinese presidents  Barack Obama  and  Hu Jintao  left town, Lee is grappling with a crisis
that may be more serious than the March sinking of a South
Korean warship that killed 46 sailors. This latest attack was on
a civilian-occupied island near the border with the North.  Bad Timing  For Hu, the timing couldn’t be worse. China is struggling
to keep its overheating economy on track. Officials in Beijing
must slow growth, while making sure those efforts don’t
antagonize hundreds of millions of Chinese seeking higher wages.
You would think Hu’s regime has enough on its hands and it’s
high time it put North Korea on a shorter leash. It has great
financial leverage over Pyongyang.  You can bet Hu will get an earful from world leaders,
including Obama. At the Seoul  G-20 , China was vocal about
America’s stimulative monetary policies. It urged the U.S. to
act responsibly for the good of the world economy. Now Obama can
turn the tables and ask Hu to do the same with Kim.  Our intelligence on North Korea is rather lacking. Media
stories focus on chronic food shortages and how sanctions
inflict pain. Then we learn about  Siegfried Hecker ’s visit this
month to a nuclear plant. The Stanford University professor
speaks of “astonishingly modern” technological advances at the
Yongbyon reactor site. Clearly, efforts to squeeze Kim are
failing.  Kim’s Allowance  China owes it to the world to dock Kim’s allowance and
restore some sobriety to the Korean peninsula. Lee has a very
short list of options here. It also seems clear that North Korea
had outside help and equipment to build its new uranium-
enrichment facility so quickly. China really does need to read
North Korea the riot act.  The geopolitical-risk angle here is terrible news for
investors everywhere. This isn’t a straight-forward Black Swan
moment. Yes, it will have an impact on markets, yet Asians are
rather accustomed to Kim lobbing volatility bombs their way.
Even so, this is a warning that something big and destabilizing
-- beyond anything investors have contemplated -- could come
from Pyongyang at any moment.  A sudden coup, for example, might unnerve investors. Ending
the disastrous Kim dynasty has a certain appeal to many of us.
Yet some rogue, unknown general with lots to prove might not be
an improvement. With Europe’s debt crisis unfolding and the U.S.
dollar shaky, missiles shot in the direction of, say, Tokyo
can’t be ruled out.  Along with causing untold pain and suffering for Japan’s
populace, an attack would devastate stocks, send bond yields
soaring and cause havoc in currency markets.  Geopolitics in Asia often trumps economics, and events in
Korea are convulsing markets that are already off balance. North
Korea is Exhibit A of the potential Black Swans out there.
Denial is no longer an option.  ( William Pesek  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 William Pesek  in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  