-- Venezuelan Black Sea Oil Route Threatens European Supplies, Transneft Says
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2010-11-23T11:08:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/black-sea-oil-route-threatens-european-supplies-transneft-says.html
Deliveries of Venezuelan crude to
Belarus from the Black Sea may pose a threat to Russian oil
supplies bound for central Europe, Russia’s pipeline operator
 OAO Transneft  said.  Transneft is preparing a letter to the European Union
explaining the situation,  Igor Dyomin , a Transneft spokesman,
said by telephone in Moscow. “The decision has increased risks
to Russian oil deliveries to Europe,” he said.  Belarus reversed the direction of one line in the Druzhba
link’s southern branch on Nov. 21 to carry crude east to the
Mozyr refinery, Dyomin said. The branch’s parallel line
continues to carry Russian oil west to the Czech Republic,
Croatia, Slovakia, Hungary and Germany, he said.  Russia and Belarus, which are developing a customs union
with Kazakhstan, have clashed over oil export taxes as Russia
moved to roll back a discount that allowed Belarus to benefit
from cheap oil supplies. Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin
 said  the duty may be canceled once a free-trade area is created.  Belarus plans to take delivery of as much as 9 million
metric tons of crude from Venezuela next year, a Belarusian
presidential administration official said in September.  Belarus’s use of the line means Transneft won’t be able to
increase deliveries via Druzhba’s southern branch to meet
additional winter demand and won’t have an alternative route in
case of an accident, Dyomin said.  Transneft supplies to Europe have continued uninterrupted
through the second line of Druzhba, which is operating at
slightly more than its capacity of 17.5 million tons a year,
Dyomin said.  The crude Belarus received was Russian oil that Venezuela
obtained via a swap at the Black Sea port of Novorossiysk,
Dyomin said. The 80,000-ton cargo was carried from the Black Sea
to Belarus via Ukraine’s Odessa-Brody pipeline, Dyomin said. The
next delivery, of 78,200 tons of oil, is scheduled to arrive at
the Odessa port on Nov. 25, Kommersant-Ukraine said yesterday.  “Why Belarus can’t take that same oil via Druzhba is
beyond my understanding,” Dyomin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 