-- Blockbuster Creditors Win Court Approval to Probe Bankruptcy, Carl Icahn
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2010-11-23T19:32:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/blockbuster-creditors-win-court-approval-to-probe-bankruptcy-carl-icahn.html
Creditors of  Blockbuster Inc. , the
world’s largest movie-rental company, can seek documents in an
investigation of events before the company’s bankruptcy,
including the involvement of  Carl Icahn ’s investments.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland  in New York approved a
creditors’ request to investigate issues including the October
2009 refinancing of Blockbuster’s senior notes, the negotiation
of the plan support agreement and any alternative proposals made
to the company, according to court papers.  Creditors’ lawyer  Richard S. Kanowitz  told Lifland that
following a separate request to subpoena documents focused on
Icahn that was made by Lyme Regis Partners LLC, an investor in
Blockbuster notes, which focused on Icahn, the committee would
also include “the Icahn entities as shareholder and lender, but
not a director.”  “We believe the committee’s investigation will be a
complete investigation,” Kanowitz said.  Blockbuster filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy Sept. 23, with
the support of lenders who held 80 percent of its secured notes
and agreed to finance operations in bankruptcy.  Icahn Partners LP was one of the lenders, along with
Monarch Capital Master Partners LP, Owl Creek Asset Management
LP, and others. The terms of the agreement gives  Icahn Capital
LP  authority to choose two directors for the new company, and a
third if it has agreement from Monarch Alternative Capital LP
and other investors.  Senior Noteholders  Creditors said in court papers that the liens of senior
noteholders should be investigated since the plan converts
secured debt to equity in the reorganized company while giving
unsecured creditors a “de minimis,” or negligible, return.  Icahn, 74, began buying Blockbuster stock in 2004, and led
a proxy fight in 2005 to put himself and two nominees on the
board. He stepped down from the board in January and in March
cut his stake in the company to 3.5 percent by selling stock.  “There is material reason to believe that Carl Icahn
possessed substantial, pre-petition influence over the debtor”
and had insider information, Don Herzog, a member of Lyme Regis,
said in a Nov. 15 court filing that outlined purchases and sales
of Blockbuster’s stock made by Icahn before and after he
resigned from the board.  Under bankruptcy law, payments to insiders made within a
year leading up to the bankruptcy can be collected for
distribution to all creditors.  Icahn Shares  Icahn began selling stock on March 30, 2010, and by April
7, 2010, didn’t own more than 5 percent of its stock, according
to filings by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Lyme Regis said in a separate court filing that it sought
information about Icahn’s possession of “confidential,
material, insider information” and his relationship with
Blockbuster’s bankruptcy counsel, Weil, Gotshal and Manges LLP.  Icahn didn’t immediately return a call for comment. Contact
information for Lyme Regis wasn’t available. Scott McMillan, a
lawyer for Lyme Regis, didn’t return a call for comment. A
message left on Blockbuster’s communications line wasn’t
immediately replied to.  Icahn Partner is an affiliate of a former client of Weil
Gotshal, the law firm said in court documents. The firm listed
10 other Blockbuster lenders which were or are clients, and said
its representation of them is unrelated to its work in
Blockbuster’s bankruptcy.  The committee’s probe may overlap with allegations made
publicly by shareholders, according to lawyers for creditors.  California Shareholder  Jasbir Sandhu, a shareholder based in Fremont, California,
alleged in an Oct. 4 letter to the bankruptcy court that Icahn’s
sale of his Blockbuster stock dragged down bond prices before
Icahn bought debt just before the filing.  Sandhu also alleged that Blockbuster Chief Executive  Jim Keyes  took steps that helped Carl Icahn. Keeping Blockbuster
Express out of bankruptcy, securing Canadian assets by giving
protection to studios and separating out international assets
manipulated the legal path toward bankruptcy so that Icahn
benefited while shareholders lost, Sandhu alleged.  The case is In re Blockbuster, 10-14997, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tiffany Kary  in New York bankruptcy court
at   tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 