-- BMW Sleds, Mercedes for Kids Battle $13,000 Audi on Santa List
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 2010-11-23T23:01:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/bmw-sleds-mercedes-for-kids-battle-13-000-audi-toy-on-luxury-santa-list.html
Germany’s three biggest  automakers 
have been locked in a tight race for dominance of the world’s
luxury-car market in recent years.  Now, the rivalry between BMW, Mercedes-Benz, and  Volkswagen
AG ’s Audi has expanded to include a holiday season battle for
playground prestige with new push cars and snow sleds that
target the next generation of drivers, Bloomberg Businessweek
reports in its Nov. 29 issue.  Audi  set the standard for luxury kid toys with a limited
edition pedal-powered version of the Auto Union Type C, which it
showed at the Nuremberg toy fair in February. The scale model of
the 1930s racer, designed for kids up to 135 centimeters (4.4
feet) tall, has an aluminum frame, hydraulic brakes, seven-speed
hub gear, leather-clad steering wheel and oak dashboard. The car
retails for 9,700 euros ($13,300), making it Audi’s most
expensive kid toy; only 100 of the 500-unit run remain unsold.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  is firing back in time for
Christmas with new BMW- and Mini-branded sleds for 79 euros
apiece.  Daimler AG ’s Mercedes is countering with a version of
the gull-wing SLS supercar for toddlers, due in April for 90
euros each. The carmakers are quick to explain that there’s more
to gain by promoting kid-focused merchandise than simply making
a few euros from hawking toy racers.  “Merchandising is not important because you can make huge
money with it, but because it’s another means of positioning
your brand,” said  Peter Schwarzenbauer , Audi’s sales chief.
“We’re thinking about more products that are not directly
related to our cars but set design standards in other areas,”
such as a 12,900-euro tabletop soccer game.  Teddy Bears, Geckos  Audi, which aims to topple  BMW  as the world’s largest
luxury carmaker by 2015, is revamping the Quattro GmbH unit to
sharpen its focus on vehicle customization and accessories,
Schwarzenbauer said. Merchandising sales have climbed 20 percent
this year, according to the Ingolstadt, Germany-based company.  In addition to toy cars,  Audi  has a line of Teddy Bears,
including one decked out in a motor-racing suit for 47 euros,
and a modern pedal-powered alternative to the exclusive Type C,
which premiered as a prototype in 2006. The red plastic racer
for 299 euros features an adjustable rollover bar, handbrake,
over-sized tires with Audi-style rims, and padded seats.  Then, there’s Rob the gecko, a black, grey and gold cartoon
lizard featured in plush toys and baby items. Rob was developed
as a companion for kids on car trips and is “made of such soft
plush that you can hug and stroke him for ages,”  Audi  said in a
brochure for the line, which includes a cocoon blanket, neck
support, and play steering wheel.  BMW Snow Racer  Luxury carmakers go to great lengths to add details that
ensure their toys stand out. BMW’s 79-euro Snow Racer sled has
replaceable metal runners, a suspension-system in the red
steering ski, and a horn to warn inattentive passersby.  In April,  Mercedes  will roll out the foot-powered SLS
Bobby-Benz, which will share the shapes of its headlights,
grill and rear end with Mercedes’s $183,000 SLS sports car. The
toy SLS features quiet-running tires, an Ackermann steering
system with tight cornering for living-room maneuverability and
a steering wheel that absorbs impact to prevent injury in the
event of a collision.  Toys are a particular attraction for  car companies  because
they tighten relations with current customers and provide an
opportunity to develop an affinity for the brand with future
drivers such as the kids of Sonny Kim.  Driving Mom’s Car  The 36-year-old graphic designer from Berlin spotted a
pedal car, which sells for between 179 euros and 205 euros, at
the Mercedes Center in the German capital while having winter
tires put on her 2007 A-Class hatchback and thought it would
make a great gift for her two- and four-year-old boys.  “It would be nice for the kids to drive the same thing as
mom and dad,” she said. “It would be a nice bond.”  The kid products “have to live up to Mercedes’ standards
for quality and safety -- especially our toys, which are all-
time favorites with the next generation of  Mercedes-Benz 
customers,” said Christian Boucke, head of Mercedes-Benz
Accessories. The 10-year-old unit offers 15,000 products
including $24 silver Christmas ornaments, a $139 tote bag made
from seatbelts, and a retractable pet leash for $15.50.  Merchandise has been a steadily growing part of Mercedes’s
business, with sales rising on average more than 10 percent
annually over the past decade. Car sales have been less
consistent. Revenue last year at the Stuttgart, Germany-based
company dropped 4.3 percent in the wake of the financial crisis.  Mini Rain Boots  BMW began its lifestyle business 15 years ago. It now sells
more than 2,000 products including 39-euro Mini rain boots and a
1,500-euro bike from BMW’s M performance unit. The Munich-based
 company  also introduced a kid edition of the M3 GT2 race car.
The battery-powered version, which costs 349 euros, has forward
and reverse gears and a top speed of 2.5 miles per hour.  “We are first and foremost a marketing initiative, and the
main objectives are to broaden the brand’s presence and
strengthen loyalty,” said Thomas Goerdt, head of BMW’s
merchandising and lifestyle unit. “We are a marketing effort
that makes money.”  BMW’s merchandise sales this year have increased 20 percent
and the unit holds its own with  profit margins  generated from
selling real cars, he said. BMW is targeting a margin of more
than 7 percent this year on its auto business.  In China, which is now its third-largest market for car
sales, BMW opened a store selling merchandise a year before it
began assembling cars in the country. There are now 40 BMW
stores in China, and BMW is considering expanding its retail
presence to Korea, Russia and India, Goerdt said.  No Underwear  While luxury consumers want a wide range of products to
communicate their association with the brand, “merchandising
needs to be kept in check so that it doesn’t overstretch the
brand or interfere with the core business,” said Michel
Gabriel, managing director for consultancy Interbrand in Zurich,
who has previously advised Audi on branding.  “Sometimes you have to say no, even if a lot of money can
be made from a product” like branded underwear, he says.  Ultimately, the world’s top-three premium car brands are
chasing Aston Martin when it comes to exclusive kid toys. The
ultra-luxury British brand sold mini motorized replicas of the
V8 Vantage Volante and Virage in the late 1980s and early ‘90s
to customers including  Prince Charles .  The Aston Martin Volante Junior, which retailed at 15,000
pounds ($24,000) plus tax, had a gasoline engine, radio and a
top speed of more than 30 miles per hour. The cars have resold
for as much as 25,000 pounds, according to Roger Bennington,
managing director of Stratton Motor, one of the world’s largest
Aston Martin dealers.  “A lot of people bought them as a collector’s item when
they had a new car built and would normally have the Junior
built to the same specification,” said Bennington. “I don’t
actually think many kids got to use them as they were normally
the prized possession of the Aston Martin owner. They were also
a little bit too fast for children.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Reiter  in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 