-- BP to Shut Down Indonesian LNG Plant, Regulator Says
-- B y   B a m b a n g   D j a n u a r t o   a n d   D i n a k a r   S e t h u r a m a n
-- 2010-11-23T11:30:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/bp-to-perform-maintenance-at-tangguh-lng-plant-regulator-says.html
BP Plc , Europe’s second-largest oil
company, will perform maintenance at its liquefied natural gas
plant in Tangguh, Indonesia, from December to March, the
country’s regulator said today.  The two production lines at the 7.6 million metric ton-a-
year plant in Papua province will be closed alternately for
“scheduled maintenance,” said Elan Biantoro, a spokesman for
BPMigas. Shipments from the plant won’t be affected, he said.  “With the maintenance, Tangguh won’t achieve its peak
production from the two trains, but shipments aren’t affected
because it was scheduled,” Jakarta-based Biantoro said by phone
today. He declined to give output details for this year and next.
BP spokesman  Toby Odone  declined to comment in an e-mailed
response to questions.  Indonesia exports the frozen fuel from three plants to
Japan, South Korea, Taiwan and China under term contracts. Arun
in Aceh and Bontang in East Kalimantan produced more than 95
percent of the country’s LNG last year, according to
calculations based on official data. BP Plc holds a 37.16
percent share in the $5 billion Tangguh project.  Tangguh, which started shipping cargoes last year, has
multiyear contracts in place to supply 2.6 million tons a year
to China, 1.15 million tons a year to South Korea and a flexible
contract to supply as much as 3.7 million tons a year to
Sempra’s LNG terminal in Baja California, Mexico, BP said on its
website.  LNG imports worldwide grew by more than 20 percent or 4.8
billion cubic feet a day in the first half of this year from a
year earlier,  Sabine Schels , a London-based analyst at Bank of
America Corp. Merrill Lynch, said in a report last month. Excess
liquefaction capacity may halve in 2012 from more than 4 billion
cubic feet a day last year, trimming supplies, the report said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bambang Djanuarto  in Jakarta at 
 bdjanuarto@bloomberg.net ;
 Dinakar Sethuraman  in Bangalore at 
 dinakar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  