-- Brazil's Inflation Tops Estimates, Fueling Bets on Interest-Rate Increase
-- B y   I u r i   D a n t a s   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2010-11-23T12:42:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/brazil-s-inflation-tops-estimates-fueling-bets-on-interest-rate-increase.html
Brazil’s consumer prices jumped more
than expected in the month though mid-November, fueling bets the
central bank will resume interest rate increases next year.  Inflation, as measured by the IPCA-15 price index,
quickened to 0.86 percent in the month through mid-November from
the same period a month earlier, the fastest pace in 9 months,
the national statistic agency said today. Economists forecast a
0.72 percent gain, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of 33 analysts.  Bond traders are betting Brazil will miss its  inflation 
target for the first time since 2003 as commodity prices jump
and concern builds that President-elect  Dilma Rousseff  will fail
to curb spending after taking office Jan. 1. Yields on the 13
most traded interest rate futures contracts in Sao Paulo rose.  “Given the current inflation, the likelihood of interest
rate increases is higher, and yields on the interest rate
futures must go up,”  Roberto Padovani , chief-economist at Banco
WestLB do Brasil, said in a phone interview from Sao Paulo.
“The central bank will probably watch the evolution of the
economy in the first quarter of next year before deciding what
to do.”  Yields on interest rate futures contracts maturing in
January 2012 rose 11 basis points, or 0.11 percentage point, to
11.88 percent at 7:18 a.m. New York time. Traders are wagering
policy makers will need to resume interest rate increases early
next year and push the rate to as high as 13 percent by the end
of 2011, according to Bloomberg estimates based on interest rate
futures contract.  Inflation Target  Consumer prices rose 5.47 percent in the 12 months through
mid-November, the biggest jump in 20 months. Consumer prices
exceeded the mid-point of the inflation target for a third
consecutive month. The central bank targets inflation of 4.5
percent with a leeway of plus or minus 2 percentage points.  Investor expectations for annual inflation over the next
two years, implied by the yield difference between the
government’s inflation-linked and fixed-rate notes, rose to 6.78
percent on Nov. 19, the highest since November 2008. That gap,
known as the breakeven rate, tops the 6.5 percent upper limit in
the central bank’s target range for consumer price increases.  The central bank kept the overnight rate unchanged at 10.75
percent in its two past meeting, after raising it earlier this
year by 200 basis points from a record low 8.75 percent.  Food prices jumped 2.11 percent in the month through mid-
November, accounting for 56 percent of the consumer price
increase in the Oct. 14-Nov. 12 period, the national statistic
agency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Iuri Dantas in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net  