-- Favre Says Minnesota Vikings Will Benefit From Frazier's NFL Experience
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-11-23T05:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/brett-favre-says-vikings-will-benefit-from-new-coach-s-nfl-experience.html
Brett Favre  said  Leslie Frazier ’s
National Football League playing experience will help him as the
new coach of the Minnesota Vikings, who yesterday fired  Brad Childress  after a 3-7 start.  Frazier, 51, was promoted from defensive coordinator to
replace Childress, whose fifth season in Minneapolis was marked
by clashes with Favre and wide receiver  Randy Moss .  Frazier, who said yesterday that Favre would remain the
Vikings’ starting quarterback, played in the NFL for five years
and was a starting cornerback for the 1985 Chicago Bears team
that won the Super Bowl. This is Frazier’s first NFL head
coaching position. He will replace Childress for the remainder
of this season.  “He’s going to take this opportunity and make the most of
it,” said Favre, a three-time NFL Most Valuable Player. “He
knows what it takes to win in the NFL. He can relate to players
having been in their shoes himself and will prepare the team
well.”  Frazier, who led the 1985 Bears with six interceptions,
said he has “no hesitation” in sticking with the 41-year-old
Favre, who’s started an NFL-record 296 straight games. Favre
leads the NFL with 17 interceptions this season, a year after
leading the Vikings within one game of the Super Bowl.  “He’s a tremendous quarterback and he’s been a leader of
our team in the last year and a half,” Frazier said during a
news conference. Frazier joined the Vikings in 2007 after
winning a Super Bowl on the Indianapolis Colts’ coaching staff.  Childress’s Record  Childress, who didn’t play in the NFL, was 40-37 in 4 1/2
years with the Vikings, including 1-2 in the playoffs.  Minnesota went 12-4 last season and advanced to the
National Football Conference championship game before losing to
the Super Bowl champion New Orleans Saints in overtime. The
Vikings matched last season’s loss total by Week 8 this year and
have lost four of their past five games, including a 31-3 defeat
against the Green Bay Packers two days ago.  Vikings owner  Zygi Wilf  was upset by Childress’s handling
of Moss and considered replacing the coach before the Vikings’
27-24 overtime win against the Arizona Cardinals on Nov. 7,  ESPN
reported  without saying where it got its information.  Childress, 54, cut Moss, a seven-time Pro Bowl receiver,
four games after acquiring him from New England for a third-
round draft pick. Wilf also expressed displeasure with how
Childress handled Favre’s ankle injury and the coach’s play-
calling in a 28-18 loss to New England on Oct. 31.  Verbal Barbs  Favre and Childress traded verbal barbs at news conferences
during the last two weeks, similar to exchanges at the end of
last season.  Childress was involved in verbal altercations with other
players, including wide receiver  Percy Harvin , the NFL’s 2009
Offensive Rookie of the Year. The two were separated by
teammates and coaches on Nov. 5 after Childress questioned the
receiver’s work ethic during practice,  ESPN said .  “Brad Childress is a good guy, a man with strong faith and
a good family,” Favre, who’s in his 20th NFL season, said in
comments distributed by the Vikings. “I wish him the best in
the future. I think we all, starting with me, could have done
more to make this a successful season.”  The Vikings are 0-5 on the road and have scored 172 points,
99 fewer than through the first 10 games in 2009. The Vikings
began this season with 11-1 odds to win their first Super Bowl
title and are now listed at 125-1, according to Las Vegas Sports
Consultants, which helps Nevada sports books set gambling lines.  “Nobody in this locker room would have thought we would be
in this position at the start of the season, but we have to try
to make the most of it now,” Vikings guard  Steve Hutchinson 
said. “I know Leslie will be a positive presence for the guys
on the team and we’re going to be behind him.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  