-- Bulgaria Woos Investors From China, `Economy of 21st Century,' After Slump
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2010-11-23T16:33:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/bulgaria-woos-investors-from-china-economy-of-21st-century-after-slump.html
Bulgaria seeks to attract Chinese
investment in infrastructure, energy and export industries to
bolster its economy after the country’s worst recession in a
decade, Finance Minister  Simeon Djankov  said.  The government has put together initiatives to win Chinese
investment and plans to focus on these efforts over the next few
months, Djankov said today in London at the Bloomberg
Businessweek European Leadership Forum.  “China is the economy of the 21st century,” he said.
“We’ve seen growing interest from Chinese investors of coming
to our region, specifically Bulgaria.”  Heibei, China-based  Great Wall Motor Co. , the country’s
biggest sport-utility vehicle maker, is building an 80 million-
euro ($107 million) car production plant in the Balkan country,
according to Bulgaria’s government. China is among the countries
that have expressed interest in investing in a new nuclear power
plant, Djankov said in an interview yesterday in London.  Bulgaria has kept the corporate and personal income tax
rates at 10 percent, the lowest in the European Union, in an
effort to attract investors, Djankov said. While the debt crises
in neighboring Greece and Romania have cast a shadow over the
region, Bulgaria also seeks to attract investors with its stable
finances, Djankov said.  The country’s  economy  grew 0.2 percent in the July-
September period after six quarters of decline. The government
projects 3.7 percent economic growth next year, driven by
exports, Djankov said. The economy contracted 5.1 percent in
2009 after a three-year lending boom stalled and foreign
investment dried up.  If Bulgaria decides to borrow on global markets or seek an
international loan next year, it will be “for specific
projects, be it infrastructure, be it health care,” Djankov
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Konstantinova  in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  