-- Burundian Political Repression Threatens New War, Human Rights Watch Says
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   F i d e l e   B i g i r i m a n a
-- 2010-11-23T10:10:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/burundian-political-repression-threatens-new-war-human-rights-watch-says.html
Political repression in  Burundi  is
intensifying with a crackdown on the media and political
opposition threatening to reignite conflict in the Central
African nation,  Human Rights Watch  said.  More than 20 people, including opposition and ruling party
supporters, were killed and anti-government activists have been
arrested and tortured from April to September, the New York-
based advocacy group said today.  “Political opponents face surveillance, arrest, detention,
torture and even death,” Human Rights Watch said in a report.
“Civil society and journalists fear that simply carrying out
their work may put them at risk of arrest or physical harm.”  Burundian President  Pierre Nkurunziza  was returned to
office on June 28 after five opposition parties boycotted a
presidential election that month and a parliamentary vote in
July. They accused the ruling National Council for the Defense
of Democracy-Forces for the Defense of Democracy (CNDD-FDD)
party of winning municipal elections in May through rigging,
Human Rights Watch said.  In May, the Burundian government revoked the work permit of
Neela Ghoshal, a Human Rights Watch researcher based in the
country, after the group published a report about pre-election
violence that month.  ‘Thrown Out’  “When HRW replaces the person we have thrown out, the
government of Burundi will be able to comment on the reports
produced by this international NGO,” Philippe Nzobonariba, a
spokesman for the East African nation’s government, said in a
phone interview on Nov. 19 from Bujumbura, the capital.  The election in July was the first since a United Nations-
backed peace process that helped Burundi, a coffee-producing
nation with a population of about 8 million, end a decade-long
civil war that killed 300,000 people. Fighting broke out in 1993
when the country’s first democratically elected president, an
ethnic Hutu, was assassinated by members of the Tutsi-dominated
army.  Since the peace accord, the economy has accelerated, with
higher coffee volumes and donor aid expected to boost economic
growth to 3.9 percent this year from 3.5 percent in 2009, the
 International Monetary Fund  said in June.  Journalists Arrested  Four journalists have been arrested and a fifth was warned
to stop investigating “sensitive” subjects, Human Rights Watch
said. By August, three opposition leaders, including Agathon
Rwasa, head of the Forces for National Liberation, a former
rebel group now registered as a political party, were in hiding
or had left the country, Human Rights Watch said.  Supporters of opposition parties in Burundi have been
allegedly killed and their mutilated corpses dumped in forests
and rivers, while others have reportedly escaped to hideouts in
the countryside, it said.  “By September, the situation in Burundi indicated a
possible return to armed conflict,” Human Rights Watch said.
“Young men are taking to the bush, and others are deserting the
police and army, their whereabouts unknown.”  Nine people died in police custody in Burundi between
August and October, Ghoshal told reporters today in Kenya’s
capital, Nairobi, citing information she received since
compiling the report from the  UN Operation in Burundi .  There is a slight chance that the latest tensions will
plunge the country back into outright war as ethnic divisions
that fuelled earlier conflict have “diminished,” Ghoshal said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ;
 Fidele Bigirimana  in Bujumbura via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 