-- Bust Is Better Than a Bailout for Irish Patient: Matthew Lynn
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L y n n
-- 2010-11-23T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/bust-is-better-than-a-bailout-for-irish-patient-matthew-lynn.html
It’s not too late. The request for
aid may have been made. The negotiations may have started. But
Irish Prime Minister Brian Cowen can still refuse a bailout from
the European Union and the  International Monetary Fund .  It might sound like madness for a drowning man to refuse a
lifebelt. But the decision the Irish make in the next few days
will shape the future of their nation for a generation.  Ireland would be better off going bust than taking a loan.
The conditions attached to a rescue aren’t worth it: Once it
takes EU money, it will never get off the hook. And the Irish
banks aren’t worth saving anyway. Defaulting on your debts is a
far less scary prospect than usually portrayed.  The real question is whether Ireland’s politicians have the
courage to take that step.  Last weekend, the Irish surrendered to pressure to accept
an EU- and IMF-led package, similar to the deal hammered out for  Greece  earlier this year. There was no surprise about that. The
markets had grown so nervous about Ireland’s finances and the
cost of its bank bailouts that yields on 10-year government debt
reached almost 9 percent this month.  The final amount of the bailout is still to be determined.
So are the terms. This means, of course, that it isn’t too late.
The deal may still fall through, particularly with a general
election looming as support for the government wanes.  Bond Chaos  True, that would cause chaos in the bond markets. Trading
in Portuguese, Spanish and Italian debt wouldn’t be a pretty
sight for the few days after rescue talks collapsed. But the
Irish should still say no.  Here’s why.  First, the conditions are too onerous. The EU may demand an
end to Ireland’s low  corporate-tax rate . Its 12.5 percent rate
has been a cornerstone of the country’s economy, attracting
numerous businesses to relocate there. In 2008, two major U.K.
companies, United Business Media Plc and drugmaker  Shire Plc ,
switched their tax residence to Ireland to cut their tax bills.  Even if it isn’t explicitly part of the rescue deal,
Ireland will come under pressure over the next few years to
raise its corporate taxes, which take companies, government
revenue and jobs from Ireland’s neighbors. It will be hard to
explain to businesses in Dusseldorf why their high taxes are
being used to help rescue competitors in Donegal.  Even so, it would be a huge mistake. Low taxes and an open
business culture are what made Ireland successful. You don’t
cure a sick patient by taking out a lung.  ‘Hotel California’  Second, the EU-IMF rescue looks like financial methadone.
It numbs the pain and gets you off drugs, but it’s addictive.
The cure can be worse than the disease. Months have passed since
the Greek bailout, and there isn’t much sign of Greece accessing
the capital markets. The yield on Greek bonds remains more than
11 percent. It’s a “ Hotel California ” package: You can check
out anytime you like, but you can never leave.  Third, this is mostly about rescuing EU financial
institutions. It is the Irish banks that are in trouble, and if
they go down, it will cause massive losses at other European
lenders. But why should the Irish people worry about that? If
French, German or British banks suffer big write-downs, let
their governments deal with them. Ireland could just close its
banks -- such a small country doesn’t need its own finance
industry any more than it needs its own carmakers.  Emigration Wave  Fourth, Ireland risks tipping into an economic spiral. A
key to the Irish economic revival of the last 20 years was
reversing emigration. For a century, young Irish people went
abroad to make their careers. When they started staying at home,
it was a boon to the economy. If a generation is saddled with
these debts, why not move to  London  or  New York  where the
prospects are better? It’s already happening: Emigration is
exceeding immigration for the first time since 1995. It will be
the most highly skilled, energetic people who leave. How exactly
is that going to help the nation recover?  Five, going bust isn’t so bad. Russia and  Argentina 
defaulted on their debts. It wasn’t the end of the world. The
financial markets portray it as a catastrophe, but that is
mainly because bankers and bond investors stand to lose a lot of
money. So long as it is done in an orderly, structured way, a
default is often the best solution to a financial mess.  Underneath the property bubble -- which was caused by low
euro-area  interest rates  -- Ireland has a competitive, export-
oriented economy. September figures show exports rose 2 percent
and the  trade surplus  increased. In a weak global economy,
that’s a very decent performance.  If it defaults on its debts, Ireland can bounce back fairly
quickly. If it accepts an EU bailout, it will be stuck in
recession for a generation.  (Matthew Lynn is a Bloomberg News columnist and the author
of “Bust,” a forthcoming book on the Greek debt crisis. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Matthew Lynn in London at 
 matthewlynn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  