-- Busted Inflation Target Bets Show Fiscal Concerns Growing: Brazil Credit
-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f   a n d   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o
-- 2010-11-23T16:22:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/busted-inflation-target-bets-show-fiscal-concerns-growing-brazil-credit.html
Bond traders are betting Brazil will
miss its  inflation  target for the first time since 2003 as
commodity prices jump and concern builds that President-elect
 Dilma Rousseff  will fail to curb spending.  Investor expectations for annual inflation over the next
two years, implied by the yield difference between the
government’s inflation-linked and fixed-rate notes, rose to 6.68
percent as of yesterday, the highest since November 2008. That
gap, known as the breakeven rate, tops the 6.5 percent upper
limit in the central bank’s target range for consumer price
increases.  A 27 percent jump in government spending in the first nine
months of the year and the highest  inflation rate  since May are
prompting traders to step up wagers on central bank rate
increases in 2011. Rousseff, who served as President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva ’s cabinet chief, said as recently as Nov. 8 that
she would continue his economic policies.  “If you look at the breakeven, it’s pricing a lot of
inflation,”  Warren Hyland , the head of emerging-market credit
fund management at Schroder Investment Management Ltd. in
London, said in a telephone interview. It’s “above the central
bank’s comfort zone,” he said.  Yields on interest-rate futures due in January 2012 surged
51 basis points, or 0.51 percentage point, since the start of
the month to 11.85 percent, signaling traders expect the central
bank to raise the benchmark rate to about 13 percent by the end
of next year from 10.75 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Policy makers, led by central bank President  Henrique Meirelles , raised the rate 200 basis points earlier in the year.  ‘Fundamentals’  The central bank, which targets inflation of 4.5 percent
plus or minus two percentage points, said in a statement it
doesn’t comment on market moves and forecasts.  There is no reason to expect faster inflation and higher
interest rates in Brazil, Treasury Secretary  Arno Augustin  said
yesterday in an interview in Brasilia.  “The expectation we have is of macroeconomic fundamentals
that will lead the country to slower inflation and lower
interest rates in the future,” he said. “If at some point
there is some nervousness or anxiety, we respect, but there is
no reason for it.”  The budget deficit widened to the equivalent of 3.4 percent
of gross domestic product in August, the biggest in five months,
before narrowing to 2.4 percent of gross domestic product in
September, when the government reaped a revenue windfall from
its sale of oil reserves to state-run Petroleo Brasileiro SA.  Beans, Corn  The yield on fixed-rate bonds due in January 2013 climbed
67 basis points this month to 12.52 percent, according to
Bloomberg data. Yields on inflation-linked notes maturing in
August 2012 rose 30 basis points during the same period to 5.81
percent.  The last time inflation reached the upper level of the
central bank’s target range was in October 2008, when the real’s
11.8 percent tumble against the dollar following the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. fueled a jump in import prices.  Higher prices for food, including beans and corn, helped
push the annual inflation rate in Latin America’s biggest
economy to a five-month high of 5.2 percent in October. Consumer
prices rose  0.86 percent  in the month through mid-November.  Brazilian economists raised their  forecast  for inflation
this year for the 10th consecutive week. Consumer prices will
rise 5.58 percent this year and 5.15 percent in 2011, up from
5.48 percent and 5.05 percent last week, according to the median
forecast in a Nov. 19 central bank survey of about 100
economists published yesterday.  ‘Difficult’  “If commodity prices, particularly food prices, keep going
up, that will accelerate the inflation trend in Brazil,”  Paulo Vieira da Cunha , a former Brazil central bank director who’s now
a partner at Tandem Global Partners LLC in New York, said in a
telephone interview. “The central bank would rather wait, and
not act preemptively. If you start to fight inflation late, it’s
more difficult to do it.”  Concern higher interest rates will lure foreign investors
seeking an alternative to near-zero interest rates in the U.S.,
Europe and Japan to Brazil’s debt market may make the central
bank reluctant to raise borrowing costs, according to Scotia
Capital Inc. The government tripled a tax on overseas purchases
of real debt last month to stem a two-year, 43 percent rally in
the real and rein in a record current-account deficit.  “This is an important worry,”  Oscar Sanchez , senior
international economist at Scotia Capital in Toronto, said in a
telephone interview. “Inflation is picking up and the central
bank doesn’t have the means to attack it.”  Yield Spread  The real fell 0.9 percent to 1.7365 per dollar at 11:17
a.m. New York time.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Brazilian dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries widened 4 basis points to 187
basis points, according to JPMorgan.  The cost of protecting Brazilian debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps rose three basis points
to 111, according to data compiled by CMA. Credit-default swaps
pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a government or company
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Yields on interest-rate futures due in January 2012 rose 5
basis points today.  The government will sell as many as 1.25 million inflation-
linked notes at an auction today, the Treasury said yesterday in
a statement published on its website.  Target  Annual inflation has been within the central bank’s target
range over the past six years, according to its website.
Consumer prices surged 9.3 percent in 2003,  surpassing  the upper
limit of the 6.5 percent target range. In a February 2004 letter
explaining his failure to meet the target, Meirelles told then-
Finance Minister  Antonio Palocci  that a 35 percent tumble in the
real in 2002 led to the surge in consumer prices.  Policy makers are committed to achieving their inflation
target, Meirelles said in an interview with Globo News
television on Oct. 17.  “If you look at the central bank performance over the past
five years, inflation in Brazil has been either close to target
or almost on target,”  Pablo Cisilino , who helps manage $14
billion in emerging-market debt at Stone Harbor Investment in
New York, said in a telephone interview. “At the end of the
day, the central bank is going to do whatever it takes to take
care of it. Inflation breakeven is extremely expensive.”  ‘Problem’  Rousseff’s efforts to restrain public spending will allow
the central bank to cut the benchmark rate next year, Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega  said in an interview on Nov. 13. Mantega
has accepted Rousseff’s invitation to remain in his position, a
person familiar with the decision said Nov. 19.  Rousseff won’t ask Meirelles to stay as head of the central
bank, O Estado de S. Paulo reported yesterday, without saying
where it obtained the information.  “The feeling in the market is that we don’t know who the
central bank president is going to be and that’s really the
problem,”  Vitali Meschoulam , a debt strategist with Morgan
Stanley in New York, said in a telephone interview. “We don’t
know if he’s going to be as hawkish as Meirelles.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tal Barak Harif  in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net ;
 Arnaldo Galvao  in Brasilia at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  