-- California Boosts Sale 25% as Yields Fall to Lowest in a Week: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   A l e x a n d r a   H a r r i s
-- 2010-11-23T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/california-boosts-sale-25-as-tax-exempts-recover-muni-credit.html
California  sold the last leg of
$14.5 billion of debt it marketed during an eight day-span as it
set prices on $1.25 billion of tax-exempt securities, 25 percent
more than it said it would offer last week.  California Treasurer  Bill Lockyer  yesterday raised the size
of the final portion from $1 billion as yields on top-rated
municipal debt fell to the lowest in a week. The state sold
bonds maturing in November 2040 at a yield of 5.5 percent, or
1.09 percentage points more than 30-year AAA bonds, according to
a  Bloomberg valuation index . Similar bonds sold in March yielded
5.65 percent, 1.41 percentage points or 141 basis points more.  “California’s at a pretty decent premium in terms of yield
in this marketplace, and it’s attractive,” said  John Wiley ,
senior vice president and portfolio manager at the municipal
bond department at San Mateo, California-based Franklin
Templeton, which bought some of the longer maturities.  California’s borrowings pushed the amount of bonds state
and local governments sold last week to a seven-year high of
$15.5 billion and helped send yields on  10-year AAA tax-exempts 
up 13 basis points on Nov. 18, the biggest one-day surge since
April 1994. Scheduled sales of municipal debt this week total
$5.2 billion, the least since the  week ended Sept. 10 , according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Yesterday, 30-year yields on top-rated securities fell 8
basis points to 4.41 percent, according to a  Bloomberg Fair
Market Value index . Yields on  30-year Treasuries  also fell
yesterday, declining 4 basis points to 4.20 percent. For the
first time since the financial crisis, tax-exempt bonds are
yielding more than Treasuries.  ‘We’re Cheap’  “We’re cheap, which is what makes us attractive,”  Evan Rourke , portfolio manager at the New York unit of Eaton Vance
Corp., said of local government debt. Boston-based Eaton Vance
has $10 billion in assets under management. “It’s a steal
unless you think interest rates are going to increase
dramatically.”  Lockyer originally had scheduled to sell $1.75 billion of
general-obligation bonds today. He reduced the size to $1
billion as tax-exempt yields last week rose. He then increased
it when demand from individual investors outpaced supply. Those
investors placed orders for $987.3 billion of the debt, more
than the $770 million reserved for them, the treasurer said.  “We’re grateful for the huge retail demand this deal
attracted,” he said. “Now we can catch our breath and give the
market a breather.”  Build Americas  The state Nov. 18 sold $10 billion of revenue anticipation
notes with a yield of 1.5 percent for debt maturing in May and
1.75 percent maturing in June. Both yields were at the high end
of ranges first quoted to investors.  Lockyer the next day sold $3.275 billion of taxable debt,
including $3.025 of federally subsidized Build America Bonds.
after increasing the entire sale by almost 20 percent amid
demand for yields that exceed those on some lower-rated
corporate bonds.  Lockyer was forced to squeeze the three sales into a two-
week period after Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  and lawmakers
were a record 100 days late in passing the state’s budget for
the fiscal year that began July 1. Lockyer couldn’t sell the
notes because the money to repay them had to be included in the
spending plan signed by Schwarzenegger Oct. 8.  He has said he usually can’t sell debt after the end of
November because of a self-imposed “dark period” in December
and early January while new economic data are prepared that must
be disclosed to investors. Governor-elect  Jerry Brown  must
deliver a new spending plan to the Legislature in the second
week of January.  Good Demand  California, the biggest issuer of debt in the municipal
market, is rated A1 by Moody’s Investors Service, its fifth-
highest grade. Standard & Poor’s ranks it the lowest among U.S.
states with an A-, its fourth-lowest level for investment-quaity
securities.  The extra yield investors demand above top-rated debt for
five-year general obligations from California issuers  reached 93
basis points  yesterday, the most since July 13, Bloomberg Fair
Market Value data show.  “There’s very good demand for California bonds and they
are well priced,” said  Bud Byrnes , chief executive officer at
Encino, California-based RH Investment Corp.  Following are descriptions of pending sales of U.S.
municipal debt:  METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY, the U.S.’s largest
transit system, which serves 8.5 million weekday riders in New
York, will sell $995 million in tax-exempt revenue bonds today.
The MTA’s $755 million portion will refund short-term debt. The
$240 million portion will be used to refinance the agency’s
series 2005G bonds, which it sold as variable-rate demand bonds.
Citigroup Inc. will market both issues, which are rated A+,
fifth-highest, by Fitch Ratings, one level above A2 by Moody’s.
(Updated Nov. 23)  MASSACHUSETTS , with the third-highest rate of personal
income, will issue $350 million in taxable general-obligation
Build Americas in a competitive sale today. The bonds will fund
capital projects. The securities, with maturities ranging from
2019 to 2021, are rated Aa1 by Moody’s, second-highest, one
level above S&P’s AA rating. (Updated Nov. 23)  SOUTH CAROLINA PUBLIC SERVICE AUTHORITY, an agency
responsible for distributing electricity to 891,000 customers,
plans to sell $300 million in taxable Build Americas as early as
next week. The bonds, backed by power and energy charges, will
fund improvements to existing facilities, environmental
compliance and other capital improvements. Underwriters led by
Citigroup will market the issue. (Updated Nov. 22)  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Marois  in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net 
 Alexandra Harris  in New York at 
 aharris48@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  