-- Stampede at Cambodian Festival Kills More Than 330 Victims in Phnom Penh
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2010-11-23T09:31:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/cambodia-probes-stampede-that-killed-347-people-at-annual-water-festival.html
Cambodia has set up an inquiry to
determine the cause of a stampede on a bridge last night that
killed at least 378 people during an annual water festival which
draws more than a million rural residents to the capital.  “We never had this kind of tragedy before,” government
spokesman  Khieu Kanharith  said by phone from Phnom Penh. “We
call for all eyewitnesses and people who were wounded to testify
about what happened.”  The government today worked to identify bodies at four main
hospitals as the army prepared to transport victims, most of
which were women, back to their villages, Khieu Kanharith said.
Authorities hurried to prepare coffins because they had only 60
on hand in the capital, he said.  The victims were mostly young people from provincial areas
who had crossed the bridge to see exhibitions and concerts on
 Koh Pich island , Khieu Kanharith said. One theory is that a
young boy tried to scare some girls by telling them the bridge
was collapsing, triggering the stampede, he said.  “Because it was a suspension bridge, many people from the
provinces didn’t understand that everything was normal,” he
said. The government wouldn’t jump to any conclusions, he added.  Many victims died from suffocation and electrocution, the
Phnom Penh Post  reported , citing a doctor at Calmette Hospital
who declined to be identified. Military police fired water
cannons into the crowd after the initial stampede, giving people
electric shocks from the cables lighting the bridge, the
newspaper said, citing 21-year-old Ouk Sokhhoeun, an eyewitness.  ‘Crushed to Death’  “Some people were crushed to death under four or five
layers of people during the stampede,” Esther Halim, country
director for aid group  World Vision , said in a statement. “The
scale of this tragedy has overwhelmed the government
hospitals.”  Hundreds jumped off the bridge during the panic as
emergency vehicles rushed to the scene, the Post reported.
Shoes, shirts, pants and bodies littered the bridge after the
crowd cleared, it said.  More than 750 people were injured on the bridge, which was
eight meters (26 feet) wide and 300 meters long,  Phay Siphan , a
Cabinet spokesman, said by phone.  ‘Both Ends’  “There were too many people on the bridge and both ends
were pushing towards the centre,” Sean Ngu, an Australian who
witnessed the tragedy,  told  the BBC. “The pushing caused those
in the middle to fall to the ground and then get crushed.”  The three-day water festival  celebrates  the period when the
Tonle Sap River reverses direction at the end of the rainy
season. Hundreds of thousands of people flock to Phnom Penh to
watch boat races and take part in street fairs. The government
has declared Nov. 25 a national day of mourning, Khieu Kanharith
said.  Southeast Asia’s  second-poorest country  has sought to
attract foreign investment to boost the incomes of its 14
million people, a third of whom are under 15 years old,
according to a Central Intelligence Agency  estimate . The
government aims to open a stock exchange within the year, after
a decade in which annual economic growth averaged 8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Ten Kate  in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at   billaustin@bloomberg.net ; 