-- Camden Trash Authority Works to Avoid Defaulting on Dec. 1 Bond Payment
-- B y   D u n s t a n   M c N i c h o l
-- 2010-11-23T17:04:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/camden-trash-authority-works-to-avoid-defaulting-on-dec-1-bond-payment.html
The Camden County Pollution Control
Financing Authority in New Jersey said it is working on options
to avoid defaulting on a Dec. 1 final payment on its series
1991A-1991D revenue bonds, the agency’s attorney said today.  Representatives are meeting daily with state Treasury
Department officials; the Geneva-based private operator of the
trash agency’s incinerator,  Foster Wheeler AG ; and other
stakeholders to find about $25 million needed by Dec. 1, said
Philip Norcross, the authority’s bond counsel.  “I don’t see failure as an option here,” he told the
state’s Local Finance Board at a hearing in Trenton today. “We
all collectively have to figure out a way to work this out.”  The authority is scheduled to receive $2.1 million from New
Jersey and is trying to identify ways to access existing
surpluses in its restricted accounts, Norcross said.  “This board wants to be sure there is no default by any
public entity in New Jersey,” said Tom Neff, chairman of the
finance board. “We intend for there not to be one anytime
soon.”  The prospect of a default drove the price of the bonds to
53.5 cents on the dollar yesterday from par on Oct. 26,
according to Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board trading
records compiled by Bloomberg. The price has dropped by more
than 41 percent since Nov. 12, when the state Treasurer  Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff  said his office wouldn’t cover the payment, as
it has in the past.  Standard & Poor’s lowered its rating on the authority’s
debt to CC, the third-lowest, from CCC.  Picking Up Payments  New Jersey has made almost $150 million in debt-service
payments for the authority since 1999, according to S&P. The
agency can’t charge trash haulers enough to meet its financing
costs, due to competition from neighboring Pennsylvania, David
Luthman, deputy executive director of the authority, said in an
interview this month.  The authority operates a landfill in Pennsauken, where it is
based, and a trash-to-energy incinerator in Camden, a city where
more than one-third of the residents live in poverty, according
to the U.S. Census Bureau.  The operation generated $36 million in operating revenue in
2008 against $28 million in annual costs, according to the most
recent annual financial report filed for bondholders. Since at
least 2007 it has received $6 million annually in state aid to
cover debt-service expenses, the reports show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dunstan McNichol  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 dmcnichol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  