-- Loonie Falls a Second Day as Sovereign Debt Woes Increase Risk Aversion
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-11-23T22:19:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/canada-s-loonie-advances-against-u-s-dollar-after-inflation-accelerated.html
Canada’s dollar fell versus its U.S.
counterpart for a second day as Europe’s sovereign-debt
contagion drives investors from higher-yielding assets and
currencies of countries dependent on commodities for growth.  The currency had gained as much as 0.2 percent after
government reports showed inflation accelerated last month and
retail sales rose in September. An exchange of artillery fire
between North and South Korea added to the refuge appeal of the
greenback, the world’s main reserve currency. German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  said the euro is in an “exceptionally serious”
situation after Ireland asked for a financial rescue.  “This is mainly a risk-off trade,”  Shaun Osborne , chief
currency strategist at Toronto-Dominion bank’s TD Securities
unit, wrote in an e-mail. “Merkel, a renewed push up in
sovereign spreads and concern about contagion are all a big, big
weight on euro-sentiment. the U.S. dollar benefits by default.”  The Canadian currency fell 0.6 percent to C$1.0247 per U.S.
dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto from C$1.0187 yesterday. One
Canadian dollar buys 97.59 U.S. cents.  Canada’s dollar was still the fourth-best performing major
currency versus the greenback after a government report showed
annual  inflation  accelerated 2.4 percent in October, more than
economists forecast, adding to evidence that the economy is
recovering. A separate report showed September retail sales
increased for a fourth straight month.  The annual inflation rate increased to 2.4 percent in
October from 1.9 percent in the prior month, Statistics Canada
said today in Ottawa. The  median forecast  of 23 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey was for an advance to 2.2 percent.  Retail Sales  Retail sales rose 0.6 percent to a seasonally adjusted
C$36.4 billion ($35.8 billion) in September, the fourth straight
gain, led by automobiles and general merchandise stores.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg predicted a 0.7 percent
increase, according to the median of 22 estimates.  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the aquatic bird on the dollar coin, reached parity with the
greenback on Nov. 5 for the first time in three weeks. Since
then, the currency has lost 2 percent as Ireland’s debt crisis
and measures in China to contain growth weakened risk appetite.  Stocks and commodities declined and the U.S. dollar rose
against all of its 16 most-traded counterparts except the yen,
as South Korea’s Joint Chiefs of Staff said North Korea fired
“several” artillery shells into the South near their border.  The  MSCI World Index  of developed-nation equities dropped
1.7 percent. Futures on crude oil, Canada’s largest export,
slumped 1 percent to $80.96 a barrel.  Yields on Canadian two-year bonds advanced six basis
points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 1.66 percent, as the price
of the 1.5 percent security due in December 2012 fell 11 cents
to C$99.68.  The difference in yields, or  spread , between Canadian and
U.S. two-year bonds widened to 1.21 percentage points, the most
since January 2004, according to Bloomberg data.  The  odds  of a quarter-point interest rate increase at the
Bank of Canada’s next decision on Dec. 7 increased to 16 percent
from 12 percent yesterday, according to a Credit Suisse Group AG
calculation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  