-- Centerbridge Capital Said to Seek $1 Billion for Loan Servicer Green Tree
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r
-- 2010-11-23T20:56:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/centerbridge-capital-said-to-seek-1-billion-for-loan-servicer-green-tree.html
Centerbridge Capital Partners LLC  is
seeking to sell Green Tree Servicing LLC, the loan servicer it
acquired in 2007, for about $1 billion, according to two people
with knowledge of the matter.  Morgan Stanley is running the sale and has contacted
private-equity firms and potential strategic buyers about
purchasing Green Tree, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the process is private.  Green Tree, based in St. Paul, Minnesota, has increased the
volume of loans it services by about 50 percent since a
Centerbridge-led group acquired it from Fortress Investment
Group LLC and Cerberus Capital Management LP, one of the people
said. The company had $34 billion in servicing assets under
management in 2009.  Green Tree, which services residential and manufactured
housing loans, has about $175 million of annual earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and appreciation, the people said.  New York-based Centerbridge led a group that won approval
in June to buy the assets of Extended Stay Hotels Inc., which
had filed the largest bankruptcy case by a U.S. hotel owner.  In July, Fortress agreed to buy CW Financial Services, the
parent of the second-largest manager of delinquent U.S.
commercial real-estate loans, from a unit of Caisse de Depot et
Placement du Quebec.  A Morgan Stanley spokeswoman declined to comment, and
Centerbridge didn’t return a call seeking comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cristina Alesci  in New York at 
 Calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Keehner  in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 