-- Cheapest Brazil Steelmakers in Year Lure Top Funds on Rousseff
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 2010-11-23T20:59:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/cheapest-brazil-steelmakers-in-year-lure-top-funds-on-rousseff.html
Brazilian steelmakers  trading  at the
cheapest level in a year are luring the nation’s top-performing
stock funds on prospects President-elect  Dilma Rousseff  will
take steps to protect the industry from foreign competition.  Maxima Asset Management and GAP Asset Management bought
shares of  Gerdau SA  this month on speculation that Rousseff will
raise taxes on imports. A pick-up in construction as Brazil
prepares to host the 2014 World Cup and 2016 Olympics will boost
demand, lifting “massacred” steel shares,  Felipe Casotti , who
helps manage 1 billion reais ($576.1 million) at Maxima, said in
a Nov. 11 phone interview from Rio de Janeiro.  “These are very large investment programs that generate
optimism on the sector,” Casotti said. The firm’s Maxima
Participacoes  Institucional  FIA fund has returned 39 percent
this year, the sixth-best performer among the 381 stocks-only
funds with at least 100 million reais in assets tracked by
Bloomberg. “Higher import taxes are without a doubt very
positive for the industry.”  Rousseff may pursue “protectionist” measures to shore up
steelmakers when she takes office Jan. 1 after rising
competition and costs cut profits, Barclays Plc and Bank of
America Corp. said in notes to clients this month. Gerdau, Latin
America’s largest steelmaker, reported a 3.1 percent decline in
third-quarter  net income  after prices surged for iron-ore and
coal, the biggest inputs in the alloy used for making cars, oil
platforms and soccer stadiums.  Left Behind  Gerdau and  Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA , Brazil’s
second-biggest steelmaker known as Usiminas, have been left
behind in the benchmark  Bovespa  index’s 14 percent second-half
rally through yesterday on concern margins are shrinking.  Gerdau has dropped 11 percent since June 30 and  trades  at
11.8 times reported earnings after touching 11.5 last month, the
least expensive since June 2009. Usiminas lost 14 percent in
that period and  trades  at 11.6 times reported profit after
falling to 11.2 times last month, the lowest since September
2009. The Bovespa trades at 14 times reported earnings and
traded at 12.8 in May, the least since March 2009.  Steelmakers followed other Brazilian stocks lower today as
metals prices declined on concern demand may weaken from China,
the world’s biggest consumer of metals. Gerdau fell as much as
2.8 percent, while Usiminas dropped as much as 4.2 percent.  “The shares had fallen a lot,”  Marcelo Mollica , who helps
manage about $2 billion at GAP, said in a Nov. 11 interview. The
Rio de Janeiro-based firm’s Gap  Acoes  FIA fund is up 23 percent
this year, beating about 92 percent of peers. “The market tends
to overreact. There’s a very positive outlook for demand in the
domestic market for years to come,” he said.  ‘Combat Irregularities’  Rousseff also may pressure state governments to help the
industry, Mollica said. Steel workers on Nov. 16 sued the
southern states of Parana and Santa Catarina, saying they’re
hurting employment by failing to tax some imports, according to
a  statement  on the union website.  A press official in Rousseff’s transition team, who asked
not to be named because of internal policy, declined to comment.  Gerdau and Usiminas have rebounded in the past month after
Brazil’s tax agency said on Oct. 22 that it would seek to
“combat irregularities” that allow the declared value of steel
imports to be less than the cost of raw materials. Taxes on
imports will be based on pre-determined prices whenever the
declared value is lower, the agency said.  “Under-owned” Latin American steelmakers may rebound as
an “inflection point nears,” Credit Suisse Group AG said in an
Oct. 31 note.  ‘Overweight’ Rating  Morgan Stanley raised its rating on Gerdau to
“ overweight ,” saying in a Nov. 8 note to clients that the
stock’s underperformance is excessive given the company’s
earnings growth potential. Gerdau, whose biggest export market
is North America, may benefit from quickening U.S. growth,
 Carlos De Alba , an analyst at Morgan Stanley, wrote in the note.
Gerdau gets 39 percent of its sales in Brazil and 31 percent
from North America, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Gerdau and Usiminas last year reported their biggest annual
declines in net income since at least 2000, with profit falling
72 percent and 65 percent respectively, compared to an average
of 27 percent for companies in the  Bovespa .  This year, Gerdau may more than double profit to 2.5
billion reais and increase net income another 17 percent in
2011, according to average estimates of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Usiminas’s  net income  may jump 23 percent this year
to 1.5 billion reais and rise 43 percent in 2011. That compares
to an average earnings growth forecast for the Bovespa of 59
percent this year and 26 percent next year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Long-Term Sense’  Olympics spending will help boost infrastructure
investments in Brazil to 274 billion reais through 2013, the
games’  organizing committee  said in February, citing a study by
the national development bank, known as BNDES. Rousseff has
pledged to rebuild roads, ports, railways and power plants to
bolster growth in Latin America’s biggest economy.  Brazilian steelmakers remain vulnerable because
international rivals will trim margins, said  Arthur Byrnes , who
helps manage about $750 million at Deltec Asset Management in
New York. Deltec has cut holdings of Gerdau since last month and
doesn’t hold Usiminas shares.  Rising Values?  “I don’t think they’re about to turn,” Byrnes said in a
phone interview. “Steel’s something that anyone can make and
it’s made all over the world. To artificially protect Usiminas
and Gerdau I don’t think makes long-term sense.”  A Gerdau press officer declined to comment, asking not to
be identified due to company policy. A press officer at an
outside agency representing Usiminas, who asked not to be named
because of internal policy, also declined to comment.  Steelmakers “are interesting at this price” and may
rebound next year, said  Eduardo Favrin , who oversees about $2.5
billion as head of equities for HSBC Global Asset Management’s
Brazil unit in Sao Paulo. Favrin declined to say whether he was
buying.  “The fourth quarter isn’t going to bring any good news,
but that’s already in the price,” Favrin said in a phone
interview. “You have to look ahead to 2011. If you have a
developmentalist government, that defends the national economy,
it doesn’t make sense to allow such strong competition.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Cuadros  in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  