-- China, Russia Sign Energy Accords, No Gas Price Breakthrough
-- B y   A n a s t a s i a   U s t i n o v a   a n d   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2010-11-23T15:19:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/china-russia-agree-to-expand-energy-cooperation-oil-pipe-opens-jan-1.html
China and Russia agreed to expand
oil, coal and nuclear power cooperation as economic growth in
the Asian country drives energy demand while talks continued on
gas pricing to start exports.  The neighboring countries are unlikely to reach a price
agreement before mid-2011, Russian Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Sechin  said today in St. Petersburg where Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  met his counterpart  Vladimir Putin .  Wen is meeting Russian leaders this week as the countries
seek to deepen cooperation in technology, finance and energy.
Bilateral trade will probably exceed $50 billion this year, the
official Xinhua News Agency said yesterday. Russia is seeking to
expand beyond European markets, where the financial crisis and
growing competition have hampered demand.  Talks between OAO Gazprom, Russia’s gas export monopoly,
and  China National Petroleum Corp.  on supplies to the Asian
nation are proceeding “successfully,” Putin told reporters
after the meeting with Wen.  Russia’s nuclear power plant builder, ZAO Atomstroyexport,
signed a contract to construct a third and fourth nuclear
reactor at China’s Tianwan complex, at a ceremony presided over
by Wen and Putin. Wen is scheduled to meet with President  Dmitry Medvedev  in Moscow tomorrow, the Kremlin said on its website.  Russia will start export supplies of crude to China through
a pipeline on Jan. 1, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Beijing
said in a statement on its website today. The mission to Russia
follows Medvedev’s visit to China in September during which he
and President Hu Jintao launched the cross-border oil pipeline.  Gas Talks  The countries may be able to discuss “concrete
parameters” for a commercial gas contract in the middle next
year, Sechin said. Gazprom had aimed to send its first supplies
to China by pipeline in 2011, a goal that has been postponed as
the countries fail to agree on pricing.  The price gap that Russia and China aim to close about $100
per thousand cubic meters, Gu Jun, deputy director-general of
the international department at China’s National Energy
Administration, said on Nov. 18. Gazprom estimates the gas price
for Europe this year will average $308, Deputy Chief Executive
Officer  Alexander Medvedev  said on Nov. 8.  Coal imports from Russia may exceed 12 million metric tons
this year, the Chinese foreign ministry said, without giving a
comparative number.  Rising Trade  China  overtook Germany  as Russia’s second-largest trading
partner in the first six months, helped by exports from Russian
commodity producers including United Co. Rusal and OAO GMK
Norilsk Nickel.  OAO Rosneft  plans to expand cooperation with CNPC through
an upstream venture and will consider joint acquisition of
assets in Russia and abroad, both offshore and onshore, the
Moscow-based company said.  The world’s fastest-growing major economy started allowing
the yuan to trade against the Russian ruble from yesterday to
help internationalize the Chinese currency. The yuan will start
trading on Russian exchanges at the start of December, Putin
said today.  Regulators have already permitted the yuan to trade in
China against the dollar, euro, yen, British pound, Hong Kong
dollar and Malaysian ringgit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anna Shiryaevskaya  in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  