-- China Rubber Futures Fall After Crackdown on Bank Credit for Speculation
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-23T03:49:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/china-rubber-futures-fall-after-crackdown-on-bank-credit-for-speculation.html
Natural rubber futures in Shanghai
dropped by the daily 5 percent limit after the government said
it would crack down on the use of bank credit to speculate in
the agricultural market. Palm oil, sugar and rice also dropped.  The most-actively traded contract for May delivery fell to
32,220 yuan ($4,849) a metric ton on the Shanghai Futures
Exchange. The contract has fallen more than 12 percent since
Nov. 11, when China said its October consumer prices rose a
more-than-forecast 4.4 percent from a year earlier, prompting
the government to further tighten the monetary policy.  China will strictly crack down on the use of loan funds in
speculation, hoarding and artificially inflating prices of
agricultural products,  the China Banking Regulatory Commission 
said on its website yesterday. China’s cabinet said last week it
is also increasing grain supplies and may impose temporary price
controls after inflation gained the most since September 2008
and food prices climbed 10.1 percent.  “The banking regulator became the latest government agency
joining the crackdown on speculation in the agricultural
market,” said Forrest Hu, manager at Shanghai Jinhuicheng
International Trade Co.  Farm products prices have fallen in the past week since the
government’s coordinated efforts to suppress speculation and
increase supply by selling government stockpiles of sugar, pork
and cooking oil.  Palm oil futures for September delivery on the Dalian
Commodity Exchange fell 0.8 percent to 8,488 yuan a ton by the
11:30 a.m. local time break and have dropped almost 12 percent
since Nov. 11. Sugar for delivery in the same month dropped 0.2
percent to 6,307 yuan and has fallen 13 percent in the same
period.  Rubber also fell because of rising commercial inventories,
Hu said.  Natural rubber inventories  rose for an eighth
consecutive week to a seven-month high, gaining 705 tons to
60,996 tons, based on a survey of 10 warehouses in Shanghai,
Shandong, Yunnan, Hainan and Tianjin, the exchange said on Nov.
19.  -- Feiwen Rong . Editors: Richard Dobson, Matthew Oakley.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  