-- Tainted-Milk Activist Zhao May Be Freed on Medical Parole, Xinhua Reports
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-23T06:35:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/china-may-free-activist-jailed-over-melamine-milk-protests-xinhua-reports.html
China may free Zhao Lianhai, a
tainted-milk activist sentenced to two and a half years in jail,
on medical parole, the official Xinhua News Agency reported,
citing Beijing’s  Daxing district court .  Zhao was charged with “picking quarrels and provoking
trouble” by organizing illegal gatherings and shouting slogans
in Beijing and northern Shijiazhuang city on the issue of
“problem milk powder” from October 2008 to September 2009, it
said. He also organized a protest in front of the Beijing public
security authority on August 4, 2009, causing a traffic jam,
Xinhua said, without elaborating.  At least six babies died and 300,000 fell ill across China,
the world’s third-largest milk producer, after drinking milk
tainted by industrial chemicals in 2008. Zhao, whose son was
sickened by melamine-tainted milk, was arrested late last year,
according to Amnesty International.  The former chairwoman of Sanlu Group Co., the company at
the center of the scandal, was jailed for life and three other
people were given death sentences for their role in the sale of
the milk. China’s Vice Premier Li Keqiang has led a special food
safety commission since the incident.  The government is also trying to set up a registration
system to trace all melamine in the market from wholesalers to
retailers, in order to prevent it from being used to make the
protein content appear higher in diluted milk, the  State Council 
said in September.  Zhao didn’t file for an appeal to his sentence and
confessed that he was guilty as charged, according to the
report. Xinhua didn’t say when Zhao will be freed from prison.  An official who answered the phone at the court’s publicity
department declined to give her name and said the court won’t
comment on the issue and declined to send Bloomberg News a copy
of the court’s statement.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick Harrington at 
 pharrington8@bloomberg.net  