-- China Xiniya, Zogenix Raise $144 Million in U.S. IPOs
-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2010-11-23T15:38:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/china-xiniya-zogenix-raise-144-million-combined-in-u-s-ipos.html
China Xiniya Fashion Ltd. (XNY)  sold its
$88 million U.S. initial public offering at the top of the price
range, while  Zogenix Inc. (ZGNX) , a developer of treatments for central
nervous system disorders, raised $56 million.  China Xiniya, a designer of men’s business clothes in
China’s Fujian province, sold 8 million American depositary
receipts at $11 apiece, according to a  filing  with the
Securities and Exchange Commission and data compiled by
Bloomberg. San Diego-based Zogenix priced 14 million shares at
$4 apiece after originally offering 6 million at $12 to $14.  The deals followed the biggest week for U.S. initial sales
since March 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
IPO market has stabilized after 61 offerings were postponed or
withdrawn this year, with companies from  General Motors Co. (GM)  to
 LPL Investment Holdings Inc. (LPLA)  raising more than $17 billion
combined last week as the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  traded
near a two-year high.  “You’re seeing a continuation of that confidence in the
equity markets,” said Sean Kraus, who oversees about $2.2
billion as chief investment officer at Citizens Business Bank in
 Pasadena , California. Investors are “a little bit more
comfortable with IPOs, even those that may not have been able to
get done a few months ago,” he said.  Today’s Trading  China Xiniya slipped  2 percent  to $10.78 at 10:36 a.m. in
New York Stock Exchange trading. Zogenix was up  4.3 percent  to
$4.17 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading after earlier surging as
much as 34 percent.  Cowen & Co. led China Xiniya’s offering. The designer and
manufacturer of men’s business apparel and accessories will use
proceeds from the IPO to build new manufacturing facilities,
open stores and develop new products, the prospectus said.  Chinese companies have posted four of this year’s ten best
performances among IPOs on New York exchanges this year, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The country’s economy will grow 9
percent next year, more than three times as fast as the U.S.,
according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  ChinaCache International Holdings Ltd. (CCIH) , the Beijing-based
provider of content for business websites, had the biggest
first-day rally on New York exchanges in three years, jumping 95
percent on Oct. 1, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  SouFun, Syswin  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , the Beijing-based operator of China’s
largest property website, surged 73 percent on Sept. 17 after
selling its $125 million IPO at the top of the forecast range.  Syswin Inc. (SYSW) , a Beijing-based real estate agency, delayed
its $135 million U.S. IPO scheduled for yesterday, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. New York-based  Morgan Stanley (MS)  is leading the
offering, the prospectus said.  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  of San Francisco and Boston-based Leerink
Swann & Co. arranged Zogenix’s sale. The company will use
proceeds to fund clinical trials and the commercialization of
its treatment for migraines, according to the SEC filing.  Zogenix, which had no revenue until this year, posted  sales 
of $14.6 million in the first nine months of 2010, the filing
said. The company’s net loss widened to $71.4 million from $39.7
million a year earlier.  GM of  Detroit  sold $15.8 billion of common shares last week
in the second-largest U.S. IPO on record, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Boston-based LPL, the brokerage and investment
advisory firm owned by TPG Capital and  Hellman & Friedman LLC ,
raised $517 million including its overallotment option.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 