-- China Unicom Restricts Resale of Apple IPhone4
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-23T08:22:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/china-unicom-may-freeze-account-if-customers-separate-iphone4-sim-cards.html
China United Network Communications
Group Co. , parent of the nation’s only mobile operator offering
Apple Inc.’s iPhone, issued new rules restricting the resale of
the smartphone for use on other networks.  Customers may have their deposits frozen if the iPhone is
separated from its bundled subscriber identity module card, or
SIM card, Unicom Group said on its  website . The iPhone4 is in
short supply in China because some buyers have purchased the
handsets for resale, the statement dated Nov. 22 said.  Even with the exclusive iPhone agreement Unicom has been
unable to match larger rival  China Mobile Communications Corp. 
in the addition of users to the high-speed, third-generation
networks that allow smartphones to surf the Internet and
download music. China Mobile last month added 1.7 million 3G
subscribers, compared with Unicom’s 1.1 million, according to
data the companies released this month.  “It does show that the company is concerned about
customers buying the phone and using it on China Mobile’s
network,”  Paul Wuh , a Hong Kong-based analyst at Samsung
Securities Co., said in an e-mail today. “China Mobile’s
customers are not willing to switch over to China Unicom’s
network.”  China Mobile had a total of 575 million mobile phone
subscribers at the end of last month, including 16.98 million 3G
users. Unicom had 163.8 million mobile subscribers, including
11.66 million 3G customers.  The company’s listed unit China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd.
 dropped  1.7 percent to close at HK$10.28 in Hong Kong. China
Mobile’s Hong Kong-listed unit fell 1.4 percent to HK$77.80.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edmond Lococo  in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  