-- China Stocks Fall to Six-Week Low on Concern Government to Tighten Policy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-23T08:04:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/china-s-stocks-fall-for-second-day-on-tightening-concern-commodities-drop.html
China’s stocks  fell, with the
benchmark index dropping to a six-week low, on concern the
government will intensify steps to tame inflation.  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. fell 1.1 percent as the
benchmark money-market rate rose on speculation policy makers
will boost borrowing costs.  Indexes  tracking materials and
energy producers slumped more than 2 percent after the People’s
Daily newspaper said the government should intervene in prices
where necessary. Poly Real Estate Group Co. retreated 2.6
percent after Credit Suisse Group AG said property companies
will underperform on lower home prices and volumes.  “The government is serious about tackling inflation which
can also affect social stability,” said Bin Hu, chief executive
officer of BNY Mellon Western Fund Management Co. in Shanghai.
“They may take more measures including raising interest rates
and allowing the yuan to strengthen.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index , which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, fell 56.09, or 1.9 percent, to 2,828.28
at 3 p.m. close, the lowest since Oct. 11. The gauge has lost
more than 10 percent since reaching an almost seven-month high
on Nov. 8 on concern that accelerated monetary tightening will
crimp economic growth. The CSI 300 Index retreated 2 percent to
3,107.18.  News reports in the last hour of trade that North and South
Korea exchanged artillery fire had little negative effect on
 Shanghai gauge . North Korea fired “several” artillery shells
into South Korea near the two nations’ western border, prompting
a return of fire, the South’s Joint Chiefs of Staff said in a
statement.  Banks Decline  Agricultural Bank lost 1.1 percent to 2.62 yuan.  China
Construction Bank Corp.  fell 1.5 percent to 4.60 yuan, the sixth
decline in seven days. An index of financial companies traded on
the CSI 300 has tumbled 14 percent since the central bank on Oct.
19 raised borrowing costs for the first time since 2007. Policy
makers four days ago boosted the amount of money that lenders
must set aside for the fifth time this year.  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures lending costs
between banks, advanced to 2.22 percent as of 3 p.m. in Shanghai,
according to the National Interbank Funding Center. That’s the
highest since Oct. 8.  “Future rate hikes and inflation-curbing measures are now
more adequately priced in but the bias for higher rates will
remain until the next rate hike materializes,” said  Delphine Arrighi , a Hong Kong-based strategist at Standard Chartered Plc.  The PBOC will raise the benchmark one-year deposit and
lending rates by year-end, from the current levels of 5.56
percent and 2.5 percent, according to a Bloomberg News survey of
nine economists last week.  Loan Quotas  China’s biggest banks are also close to reaching annual
lending quotas and plan to stop expanding their loan books to
avoid exceeding the limits, according to four people with
knowledge of the matter.  Inflows of money from the trade surplus, foreign direct
investment, and investors betting on gains by the yuan threaten
to propel consumer prices after  unprecedented lending  by banks
flooded the economy with cash from late 2008. Consumer prices
rose 4.4 percent in October from a year earlier.  Standard Chartered Plc economists anticipate the  consumer
price index  will increase by an average of 5.5 percent next year,
with a peak gain of 6.3 percent in June. The bank estimates this
year’s increase at 3.2 percent. That compares with a 0.7 percent
decline in 2009.  Inflation Controls  Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s cabinet last week announced it will
sell grain, cooking-oil and sugar reserves, ordered an end to
tolls on trucks carrying produce and threatened price controls
to rein in a 10 percent inflation rate for food.  The country should designate more goods as important
commodities for which the government needs to create reserves,
the People’s Daily said in a front-page editorial. The quantity
of reserves for important commodities should also be increased,
the editorial said.  A  gauge  tracking 58 materials producers declined 3.6
percent on the CSI 300, snapping a three-day gain.  Jiangxi
Copper Co. , China’s top producer of the metal, fell 5.4 percent
to 34.16 yuan. Aluminum Corp. of China, the listed unit of
China’s biggest maker of the lightweight metal, dropped 4.1
percent to 10.20 yuan.  Accelerating food inflation in China may be the “worst
enemy” of metal prices because it will encourage the government
to increase interest rates, slowing industrial production growth,
Citigroup Inc. said in a report.  ‘Supper-Cycle’  “When iron-ore prices double, it hardly touches rural
Chinese workers,”  Jon H. Bergtheil  and other analysts wrote.
“When food prices rise 10-15 percent every year, it does. For
them, the ‘supper-cycle’ is a lot closer to home than the
‘super-cycle’.”  Energy producers retreated 2.2 percent on the CSI 300.
PetroChina Co., China’s largest oil producer, slid 2.9 percent
to 10.86 yuan, the  biggest contributor  to losses on the Shanghai
Composite and closed at its lowest close since Oct. 11. China
Shenhua Energy Co., the largest coal producer, fell 2.3 percent
to 24.37 yuan.  “The market will seek support at a lower level in the
short term as we are in the midst of very severe tightening,”
 Luo Jianhui , a fund manager at China International Fund
Management Co., said at a briefing today. “China’s economy may
bottom out in the second quarter next year.”  Poly Real Estate declined 2.6 percent to 11.93 yuan,
capping a 31 percent plunge this year.  China Vanke Co. , the
biggest developer by value, sank 2.1 percent to 7.92 yuan, the
lowest close since Sept. 29.  Annual Loss  In addition to expected declines in property prices,
government controls on trust financing for developers will
further squeeze their balance sheets in the “next few months,”
Credit Suisse analysts led by Jinsong Du said in a report.  Government lending restrictions have helped drag the
Shanghai Composite down 14 percent this year after surging 80
percent in 2009. Policy makers suspended mortgages for third-
home purchases and pledged to speed up trials of property taxes
to curb gains in housing prices. Price gains in Chinese cities
slowed to 0.2 percent in October from September, according to
official data.  -- Irene Shen . With assistance by  Zhang Shidong . Editors:
 Richard Frost ,  Darren Boey   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Irene Shen  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3049 or
 ishen4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  