-- China’s Rare-Earth Exports Plunge 77% After Quota Cut
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-23T07:10:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/china-s-rare-earth-exports-dropped-77-in-october-after-export-quota-cut.html
Rare-earth exports from  China , the
world’s biggest supplier, declined 77 percent in October from a
month earlier after the government reduced shipment quotas for
the second half.  Exports were 830 metric tons last month compared with 3,660
tons in September, the General Administration of Customs said in
an e-mail. Total exports were 32,990 tons in the first 10 months,
according to the e-mail, which was sent yesterday.  The export restrictions on the minerals, used in laptops,
missile-guidance systems and hybrid cars, sparked a surge in
rare-earth prices and highlighted global dependence on China for
shipments. Commerzbank AG said that prices may advance further
as supplies may dwindle, according to a Nov. 11 report.  The decline is “a result of quota reduction for the second
half,” said Peng Bo, an analyst at Guosen Securities Co.,
referring to China’s 72 percent cut in July-to-December volumes
to ensure domestic supplies. “People are more concerned whether
the government will further cut quotas next year,” said Peng.  Japan, the largest rare-earth importer, has stepped up
efforts to diversify supply sources, develop substitutes and
recycle minerals from used products after shipments from China
were disrupted in September.    Vietnam , Mongolia  Japan and Vietnam signed a deal to cooperate on rare earths,
according to an October statement from Japan’s trade ministry,
which didn’t give details. Mongolian President Tsakhia Elbegdorj
earlier this month called for Japanese companies to invest in
rare earths in his country.  To be sure, the Japanese trade ministry said on Nov. 19
that Beijing was making it easier to import rare earths into
Japan, citing a survey. A total of 16 Japanese companies
reported the situation with Chinese customs was getting better.  The ministry conducted the survey between Nov. 16 and Nov.
18 among 34 domestic trading companies and rare-earth users,
without identifying them. Trading houses Sojitz Corp. and
Sumitomo Corp. import most of Japan’s rare-earth needs.  Prices for rare earths will probably keep rising as new
supplies won’t appear any time soon, Commerzbank said in its
report. While China may “mitigate its position in the face of
strong international pressure, supplies of rare earths are
likely to decline further, with delays in the startup of
envisaged projects,” the bank said.  Export Quotas  China won’t “dramatically” cut rare-earth export quotas
next year, Vice Commerce Minister Chen Jian said on Nov. 1. Yao
Jian, a spokesman for the commerce ministry, told a Nov. 16
briefing that China also wants other countries to exploit their
own rare-earth resources to ensure global supplies.  Rare earths comprise a group of 17 metals including
neodymium, lanthanum, cerium and europium. While the elements
aren’t as rare in nature as the name implies, they are difficult
to find in profitable concentrations.  Shares in  Molycorp Inc ., the  Greenwood Village , Colorado-
based owner of the world’s largest non-Chinese deposit of rare-
earth metals, have more than doubled since July. The company
aims to restart a mine in California next year and President
Mark A. Smith has said recent price gains are “sustainable.”  --Xiao Yu. Editors: Jake Lloyd-Smith,  Richard Dobson   To contact the Bloomberg News Staff on this story:
Xiao Yu in Beijing at 
 yxiao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  