-- Construction Bank Predicts Yuan Trade May Increase to $3 Trillion by 2015
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 2010-11-23T04:41:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/china-construction-bank-predicts-yuan-trade-to-reach-3-trillion-by-2015.html
Trade transactions settled in the
yuan may rise to $3 trillion a year by 2015 as China pushes for
the wider use of its currency as an alternative to the dollar in
business and finance, according to  China Construction Bank Corp .  “The renminbi market makes perfect sense for many reasons
and we believe it will explode,”  Paul Schulte , Hong Kong-based
global head of financial strategy at CCB International
Securities Ltd., said in a telephone interview, referring to the
currency by its alternative name. CCB International is a unit of
China Construction Bank.  China Construction Bank, which helped organize the biggest
number of bond sales in China this year, forecasts an increase
from the current $19 billion a year of yuan-denominated trade
transactions, or commercial transactions primarily paid for and
financed using the yuan that don’t involve the dollar.  Demand for China’s currency is escalating as the economy
grew 9.6 percent in the third quarter and Premier  Wen Jiabao 
promotes the yuan’s role in trade. The currency has become more
attractive since China ended a two-year peg to the dollar June
19, and investors bet on further gains beyond the 2.8 percent
achieved so far versus the greenback.  “It’s natural for China to want to have control over its
currency and the way to do that is to internationalize it,”
Schulte said. Hong Kong will develop a liquid market in the yuan,
to provide “loans to Brazilian or Argentinean companies for
Chinese capital goods like locomotives, electric turbines or
health-care equipment,” he said.  Trading Partners  China, the world’s fastest-growing major economy, belongs
to the so-called BRIC group of emerging economies which also
includes Brazil, Russia and India. China is the South American
nation’s largest trade partner.  Companies have borrowed around 616 billion yuan ($93
billion) from China’s domestic currency loan market this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. PT Bakrie Telecom, an
Indonesian mobile-phone operator, and Sumitomo Mitsui Finance &
Leasing Co., were among non-Chinese companies that signed yuan-
denominated loans this year, the data show.  China also started allowing the yuan to trade against the
Russian ruble yesterday, in a move designed to support further
internationalization of the currency, according to Credit
Agricole CIB. Regulators already permitted the yuan to trade in
China against the dollar, euro, yen, British pound, Hong Kong
dollar and Malaysian ringgit.  Key Goal  The addition “is being billed as a tool to ‘help develop
yuan trade settlement,’ one of the key goals of Chinese currency
policy,” Hong Kong-based senior economist  Dariusz Kowalczyk 
wrote in note dated Nov. 22. “We expect further currencies to
be added in the near to medium term, notably the won, the
Singapore dollar and the rupiah.”  Foreign-exchange trading rose to $4 trillion a day on
average, with the U.S. dollar’s share of trades shrinking and
the share of Asia-Pacific currencies rising to 36 percent of
daily trades, according to a Bank for International Settlements
survey. That’s the region’s biggest share since the BIS started
compiling the data in 1998, the September survey found.  Central banks around the world looking to diversify assets
have begun to buy renminbi debt instruments “as a means of
ownership of the currency,” Schulte said.  In August, regulators in Beijing allowed central banks to
buy yuan bonds in China’s interbank bond market, while the Hong
Kong Monetary Authority last month tapped an annual 200 billion
yuan currency swap with China after demand for trade settlement
using the currency exceeded expectations.  Malaysia’s central bank bought bonds denominated in yuan
for its reserves in September, according to the Financial Times,
while the Bank of Thailand announced plans to buy yuan-
denominated bonds later that month.  “Renminbi debt will become a legitimate and worthwhile
part of the reserve make-up of central banks,” Schulte said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katrina Nicholas  in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  