-- China's Biggest Banks Said to Approach Full-Year Loan Quotas, Halt Growth
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-23T06:51:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/china-s-biggest-banks-said-to-approach-full-year-loan-quotas-halt-growth.html
China’s  biggest banks  are poised to
hit government-set caps on lending and plan to stop expanding 
their loan books to avoid exceeding the annual quotas, according
to four people with knowledge of the matter.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. ,  Bank of China
Ltd.  and  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.  are only extending new
loans as existing ones get repaid, the people said, speaking on
condition of anonymity. Lenders are also cutting holdings of
discounted bills to make room for longer-term debt, they said.  Regulators are monitoring banks’ loan balances on a daily
basis to ensure the official target of 7.5 trillion yuan ($1.1
trillion) in  new lending  for 2010 isn’t exceeded, the people
said. China’s government in the past month stepped up a campaign
to limit credit expansion after inflation quickened and property
prices surged.  “We don’t think financial regulators will play the chicken
this time around,”  Lu Ting , an economist at Bank of America
Corp., wrote in a note today. “Beijing’s top priority now is to
curb inflation and cool down inflation expectations. It is
common knowledge that reining in loan growth is key to all
efforts.”  In November 2008, China removed an annual quota for new
loans and started encouraging lending to revive an  economy  stung
by the global financial crisis. New loans soared to a record
$1.4 trillion the following year, fueling property speculation
that caused home prices to skyrocket.  Inflation Quickens  Domestic banks extended about 6.9 trillion yuan of new
loans this year through October, according to central bank data.
The lenders have made close to 600 billion yuan of new loans so
far this month, the 21st Century Business Herald reported today.
That would bring the total for this year to 7.5 trillion yuan.  China’s  inflation  accelerated to 4.4 percent in October,
the fastest pace in two years. The central bank last month
raised interest rates for the first time since 2007, and told
banks to set aside more deposits as  reserves  twice in November,
limiting their capacity to lend.  ICBC, China Construction Bank Corp., Bank of China and
Agricultural Bank had targeted a combined 3.2 trillion yuan of
new loans this year, according to statements from the companies.
Agricultural Bank, China’s third-largest lender, has exceeded
its lending quota for November, one of the people said without
providing details. Spokespeople for the banks either declined to
comment or weren’t immediately available.  Discounted Bills  China should return to a “normalized” monetary policy as
quantitative easing in the U.S. pumps cash into the world’s
fastest-growing economy and fuels price risks,  Zhang Jianhua ,
head of research at the central bank, said this month.  Concerns that the central bank will have to step up
measures to contain inflation have pushed the benchmark  Shanghai
Composite Index  down 11 percent from a seven-month high on Nov 8.
The gauge dropped 2 percent as of 2:33 p.m. to a six-week low
after falling as much as 3.2 percent. The  Hang Seng Finance
Index  lost 2.1 percent.  The government may limit new lending to 6.6 trillion yuan
for 2011, a 12 percent decrease from this year’s target,
according to an estimate by Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. The firm
forecast this year’s new lending will reach 7.7 trillion yuan.  Chinese banks cut their holdings of discounted bills,
short-term credits used by smaller companies to finance working
capital needs, by 157.4 billion yuan in the third quarter to
make room for more profitable longer-term loans, according to
central bank data.  The average yield on loans stood at 6.09 percent in
September, compared with 3.86 percent for discounted bills, the
central bank said this month.  -- Luo Jun , with assistance from  Sophie Leung  in Hong Kong.
Editor:  Philip Lagerkranser   To contact Bloomberg News staff of this story:
Luo Jun in Shanghai at +8621-6104-3036 or
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  