-- China’s State-Planned Economy Is Doomed to Flop: David Pauly
-- B y   D a v i d   P a u l y
-- 2010-11-23T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/china-s-state-planned-economy-is-doomed-to-flop-david-pauly.html
The biggest obstacle to  China 
becoming the world’s No. 1 economy is China.  The communist nation’s determination to keep as tight a
rein on its economy as it has on its citizens will lead to
failure -- just as it has for other countries that embraced
central planning schemes.  China is reversing its flirtation with a type of quasi-
capitalism that allowed entrepreneurs to thrive and propelled
the economy forward at an annual rate of about 10 percent.  The Chinese now follow the so-called Beijing consensus, a
belief that concentrating more control of industry in government
hands will avoid the financial debacles caused by free markets.  The nation’s state-owned companies are buying up
independent businesses in the auto, steel and energy industries.
A government-run company even plans its own Internet search
business to compete with Baidu Inc., whose shares trade on  stock
exchanges .  Monopolies in China might appeal to investors who think
merged companies can cut costs and maximize profits. Though huge
Chinese companies may be well run today, they will die from the
inefficiencies, cronyism and corruption that often plague state-
controlled enterprises.  Manipulating the Economy  Inflationary pressures springing from China’s rapid growth
has the government threatening to interfere even more in the
economy -- by imposing price controls on items including food
and fuel.  Capping prices doesn’t stop inflation, it’s merely a
delaying tactic. China’s decision to raise  interest rates  and
this month’s order to force banks to increase reserves are
better tools to combat the current inflation rate of 4.4
percent.  As it moves away from free markets, China ignores two
recent central-planning failures.  Remember  Japan  Inc.? Thirty years ago, pundits said Japan’s
economy would rule the world as its bureaucrats allocated
capital to key industries, protecting them from foreign
competition. The U.S. railed against Japan’s manipulation of the
yen to keep its exports moving -- just as today it moans about
China keeping the yuan low.  Russia ’s Troubles  Although Japan did become the second-largest economy after
the U.S. -- until being dethroned by China earlier this year --
it’s been in a prolonged stall. Its peak growth rate in recent
years was 3.4 percent in 1997.  The collapse of the  Soviet Union  starting in 1989 is a more
pertinent cautionary tale. The communist nation that controlled
everything within its borders down to the barbershops is now
defunct. Sadly, Czar  Vladimir Putin  is reversing Russia’s
chaotic moves toward democracy and capitalism.  China won’t collapse tomorrow. Its exports continue to
flood the globe, earning it money to make major investments --
and amass political clout -- abroad. But don’t let so-called
experts fool you into thinking China has discovered a new and
better way to organize an economy. State-run capitalism is an
oxymoron.  ( David Pauly  is a columnist for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column: David Pauly in  Fort
Myers , Florida, at   dpauly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  