-- Christie's Job-Approval Rating Survives New Jersey Budget Cuts, Poll Shows
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2010-11-23T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/christie-s-approval-rating-survives-his-budget-cuts-poll-says.html
New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie 
still wins approval from almost half of the state’s voters even
as he cuts budgets, according to a  Fairleigh Dickinson
University  poll.  Christie’s job performance was supported by 49 percent of
registered voters surveyed by the university’s PublicMind Poll,
compared with 39 percent who disapprove, the school said today.
In an October survey, 51 percent approved of the governor’s job
performance while 37 percent disapproved.  “Deep cuts in public budgets and a popular governor don’t
usually go together,”  Peter Woolley , the poll director and a
politics professor at the school, said in a statement.  Since becoming the first Republican governor to win
election since 1997, Christie, 48, has imposed a property-tax
growth cap, pushed through a budget that slashed spending,
pressured schoolteachers to pay more for health-care benefits,
and taken a first crack at fixing one of the nation’s most-
underfunded pension systems. He has confronted government- and
teacher-union leaders along the way, with little damage to his
public standing, according to voter surveys.  Christie should “hold the line on spending,” according to
60 percent of voters in the poll by Madison, New Jersey-based
 PublicMind , compared with 22 percent who say the state should
raise taxes to preserve programs. In households with government
workers, 47 percent disapprove of his job performance, compared
with 40 percent who approve, according to the poll.  Teacher Union  The survey also showed that the approval ratings for the
state teachers union, the New Jersey Education Association,
remains evenly balanced, as it was in a March survey, even as
Christie said the union has spent “millions” of dollars on
television and radio ads attacking him. The union had a
favorable rating of 39 percent favorable to 38 percent
unfavorable.  “Christie is holding his own and the NJEA is not,”
Woolley said.  Christie recently traveled to campaign for fellow
Republicans in states including  Connecticut ,  Michigan  and
 Illinois  in the run-up to the Nov. 2 general elections.  “To the extent that Christie’s national reputation is tied
up with national Republican politics, it can hurt him with
voters back home,” Woolley said. “He has thus far made his
reputation on honest and decisive management, not solid
partisanship.”  Christie also stumped around New Jersey to help his party
in the state Legislature and Congress, with mixed results.
Republican  Jon Runyan  won a southern New Jersey congressional
seat, while  Tom Goodwin , a state Senate incumbent the governor
supported, was defeated by a Democrat with union support.  PublicMind researchers surveyed 804 registered voters by
telephone from Nov. 15-21. The survey has a margin of error of
plus or minus 3.5 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 