-- Christie Says New York Must Pay First to Add Cross-Hudson Subway Link
-- B y   D u n s t a n   M c N i c h o l
-- 2010-11-23T23:27:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/christie-says-new-york-must-put-up-money-first-for-any-cross-hudson-subway.html
New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie 
said he will consider offering state funds for a subway link
between Secaucus and Manhattan only if New York and the U.S.
Transportation Department put up money first.  Christie last month canceled work on a proposed $8.7
billion commuter-rail tunnel linking Newark to New York because
of concern that New Jersey would be responsible for as much as
$5 billion in additional costs. The conduit was projected to
double rush-hour train capacity between the two cities.  New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  last week proposed an
alternative, to extend the city’s No. 7 subway line under the
Hudson River to northern New Jersey.  “It’s New York’s project,” Christie said when asked if he
supports Bloomberg’s idea. “Once the feds start to fund it and
New York tries to fund it, then let them come to us and see if
they need some help from us.”  Bloomberg told Christie’s aides that the subway plan is
“just a conceptual idea,” the governor said today at a press
briefing in Trenton, the state capital.  “We continue to look into the idea and plan to discuss it
with Governor Christie’s office and all of the other parties in
the coming weeks,”  Andrew Brent , a spokesman for Bloomberg,
said by e-mail. The mayor is founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  $3 Billion Given Up  When Christie canceled the rail tunnel on Oct. 27, he gave
up $3 billion in federal funds pledged to help build it.  The governor said Bloomberg’s alternative, projected to
cost about $5.3 billion, is better than the original tunnel and
would offer  New Jersey  commuters more direct Manhattan access.  “We do need another trans-Hudson crossing,” he said.
“But we need one that is paid for by all of the people who are
going to benefit from it.”  A Transportation Department representative who declined to
be named said the agency had no response to Christie’s remarks.
Jessica Bassett, a spokeswoman for New York Governor  David Paterson , didn’t immediately reply to a request for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dunstan McNichol  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 dmcnichol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  