-- JSW Energy Advances After Agreeing to Buy CIC to Add Coal Assets in Africa
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h   a n d   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2010-11-24T04:31:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/cic-energy-agrees-to-be-bought-by-jsw-energy-of-india-for-c-7-42-share.html
JSW Energy Ltd.  shares gained in
Mumbai trading after the Indian power producer controlled by the
billionaire Jindal family agreed to acquire  CIC Energy Corp.  for
C$422 million ($414 million) to add coal assets in Africa.  JSW Energy  shares  climbed 2.1 percent to 113.40 rupees at
9:19 a.m. local time after rising as much as 3.3 percent. The
stock has advanced 14 percent this year compared with a 13
percent increase in the benchmark  Sensitive Index .  Indian companies, including  Coal India Ltd. , the world’s
largest producer of the fuel, are looking to acquire assets
overseas to help meet demand as utilities build power plants.
The deal gives JSW Energy access to projects CIC is developing
in Botswana, including the Mmamabula coalfield, which holds 2.6
billion metric tons of coal, and planned power plants.  “It’s a good strategic deal, which will help the company
secure fuel,” said  Shumukh Ghosh , an analyst at Naman
Securities & Finance Ltd. in Mumbai, who has a “hold” rating
on the stock. “They are definitely ahead of their peers in
securing coal assets and are pretty aggressive.”  CIC has signed a binding agreement with JSW at a price of
C$7.42 a share pursuant to a formal takeover bid, British Virgin
Islands-based CIC said yesterday in a statement.  The Mmamabula reserves are adequate to meet all power
project requirements of JSW Energy, Chairman  Sajjan Jindal  said
in a statement yesterday.  Generation Target  Altius Finserve Pvt. is advising JSW Energy on the
transaction. Motilal Oswal Investment Advisors Pvt. is the
strategic adviser to CIC Energy for the transaction while
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. is the financial adviser to the
special committee of CIC Energy board of directors.  JSW Energy, based in Mumbai, plans to increase generation
capacity to 12,070 megawatts by 2015-2016 from 1,430 megawatts
currently, according to the company’s statement.  “This acquisition will enable JSW to not only secure the
long-term coal requirements for its existing projects but will
also be able to accelerate the capacity expansion for its
imported coal-based projects, L.K. Gupta, chief executive
officer of JSW Energy, said in the statement.  Production at the acquired coalfield may start in the next
three to five years, JSW Energy said. The reserves can support
setting up power plants of 2,000 megawatts of capacity in
Botswana and export of 20 million tons annually for 40 years,
N.K. Jain, vice chairman of JSW Energy, said in the statement.  Board Approval  CIC said in October that it had entered into exclusive
talks to sell as much as a 100 percent stake.  “We believe that the terms of this offer provide fair
value for CIC Energy shareholders in the current environment,”
 Warren Newfield , CEO of CIC, said in the statement.  The boards of directors of JSW and CIC approved the deal,
according to the statement. The value of C$422 million is based
on 56.8 million shares, including common options and excluding
unvested warrants. CIC has agreed to a breakup fee of about
C$10.5 million if the offer isn’t completed under certain
circumstances. The agreement calls for the completion of the
offer by Feb. 28.  CIC  said on Oct. 8 it entered into exclusive talks to sell
51 percent to 100 percent of the company at C$7.75 a share.  CIC surged 32 percent to C$6.86 in composite  trading  on the
Toronto Stock Exchange yesterday.  Coal Demand  India produces 530 million tons of coal a year and imports
about 67 million tons, Coal Minister Sriprakash Jaiswal said
Sept. 24. Coal demand in India may more than triple in the next
two decades to 2 billion metric tons, Jaiswal said.  The country is building power plants and steel mills to
meet demand in the $1.3 trillion  economy , which expanded 8.8
percent in the three months ended June 30, the fastest pace in 2
1/2 years.  India’s government has pledged to provide electricity
nationwide by 2012 and needs to increase installed generation
capacity to 200,000 megawatts to sustain economic growth,
according to the  power ministry . Coal is used to generate more
than half of the current capacity of 167,278 megawatts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rajesh Kumar Singh  in New Delhi at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net ;
 Abhishek Shanker  in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 