-- Codelco Said to Raise Copper Fee 35% for Chinese Users
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-23T11:06:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/codelco-said-to-raise-copper-premium-35-for-chinese-consumers-on-demand.html
Codelco, the world’s biggest copper
producer, agreed with two Chinese buyers to raise the surcharge
on sales by 35 percent next year, according to two industry
officials involved in the negotiations.  The fee, added to the price of metal for immediate delivery
on the London Metal Exchange, will increase to $115 a metric ton
from $85 this year, said the officials, who declined to be
identified because the decision hasn’t been made public. China
is the world’s largest consumer.  Copper, used in cables and pipes, advanced 10 percent this
year and climbed to a record $8,966 a ton in London on Nov. 11
as demand led by China outpaced supply and as investors bought
commodities to protect their assets. The move by Codelco sets a
benchmark and may prompt  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.  and
 Pan Pacific Copper Co.  to follow suit. The increase tops gains
of 32 percent for Korea and 31 percent for Japan.  “This falls into the higher end of our expected range,”
said Grace Qu, an analyst at metals advisory company CRU
International Ltd. in Beijing. “Codelco seems to be very
confident of next year’s market,” she said by phone today.  Copper will lead a rally in base metals into 2011 as
increased consumption cuts stockpiles and weaker currencies spur
investment demand for commodities, according to  Morgan Stanley .  Mine Capacity  The metal has the “potential to have a structural shortage
of supply for longer than any of the other metals,”  Peter Richardson , chief metals economist at Morgan Stanley Australia
Ltd., said Nov. 9. There’s been underinvestment in mine capacity
over the past decade and a “significant problem” of declining
ore quality, he said.  Consumption of copper in China will be higher than expected
this year because of strong demand from makers of autos, air-
conditioners and electronics, according to Beijing Antaike
Information Development Co.  Use of refined metal will probably grow by 11.5 percent to
6.8 million metric tons this year, more than Antaike’s forecast
for an expansion of 10.7 percent in the middle of this year and
8 percent at the start of 2010,  Yang Changhua , a senior Antaike
analyst, said in Ningbo Nov. 3.  “The premium shows market participants are still quite
optimistic about demand from China next year, despite the
prevailing tightening theme these days,” Ying Haoliang, an
analyst at Orient Securities Futures Co., said from Shanghai.  Lending Limits  Copper for three-month delivery dropped 2 percent to
$8,122.50 a ton at 7:02 p.m. in Singapore today on concern
demand may weaken as China cools the fastest inflation in two
years. The biggest banks are close to reaching annual lending
quotas and plan to stop expanding loan books, according to four
people with knowledge of the matter.  Global supply and demand supports today’s increase, said
Ying from Orient Securities. World refined output will lag
behind demand by 435,000 tons next year, the first shortage
since 2007, according to the International Copper Study Group.  Codelco increased the fee to $98 a ton for Japan and Korea
next year from $75 and $74 in 2010, according to industry
officials this month. The producer will raise the surcharge in
Europe to $98 a ton from $80, said a person with direct
knowledge of the matter on Oct. 12.  The state-owned company’s office in Shanghai referred
queries to the headquarters in Santiago. A call to the number in
Santiago listed on the company website wasn’t answered outside
of office hours.  -- Helen Sun . Editor:  James Poole   To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Helen Sun  in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpool4@bloomberg.net  