-- Collahuasi Must Resume Talks to End Chile Copper Mine Strike, Union Says
-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e
-- 2010-11-23T03:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/collahuasi-union-says-company-must-resume-talks-to-end-strike.html
The union representing striking
workers at northern Chile’s  Collahuasi copper mine , the world’s
fourth largest, said the company will have to resume wage talks
as most workers reject its latest offer.  “We are strong and united,” Manuel Munoz, the union
leader, said yesterday in an interview at an abandoned school in
the port city of Iquique where most of the miners are living in
tents. “Right now they are just trying to break up our movement
and that’s suicide. They have to discuss a new offer with us to
resolve this conflict.”  Collahuasi, owned by  Anglo American Plc  and  Xstrata Plc , is
seeking acceptances for its Nov. 17 offer from half of the
company’s 1,551 unionized workers to end a strike now in its
third week. The offer expires today.  The company is negotiating individually with workers after
breaking off collective talks because of the union’s
“intransigence,”  Bernardita Fernandez , a company spokeswoman,
said yesterday. About 120 workers had accepted the company’s
“final” offer as of Nov. 21, she said. Mining companies can
bypass unions in wage negotiations after 15 days of a strike,
according to Chilean labor rules.  The company is carrying out a “brutal” campaign to
convince workers to accept the deal through internal
newsletters, telephone calls and text messages, Munoz said. The
union doubts the company has had acceptances from 120 workers,
he said.  Pressuring Members  The union is also putting pressure on its constituents to
stay loyal to the strike. In the abandoned school the union made
a chicken pen with corn feed to mock workers who accepted the
company’s offer. Munoz said the union can achieve a better wage
deal through further negotiations.  Collahuasi is offering workers a bonus and low interest
loans worth 14 million pesos ($29,233) to go back to work, as
well as increasing their salaries and added benefits, the
company said. They previously offered a package worth 13.5
million pesos. Workers who don’t sign by today will only get 8.9
million pesos, Fernandez said.  The union called on the Catholic Church to intervene in the
conflict. Starting mediated talks may result in the two sides
meeting in the coming days, said  Cristian Arancibia , a
Collahuasi union official who presides over the umbrella union
that represents workers at privately-owned mines in Chile.
Codelco, owned by Chile’s government, is the world’s largest
copper producing company.  The Collahuasi strike may surpass a 26-day stoppage at  BHP
Billiton Ltd.’s  Escondida copper mine in Chile in 2006, Munoz
said. The Escondida mine, also located in Chile’s Atacama
Desert, is the world’s largest.  Collahuasi continues to produce normally during the strike,
Fernandez said. The company sent a third shipment since the
strike began from its Patache port, dispatching 44,000 metric
tons of copper concentrate on Nov. 21, she said. The mine is
producing below capacity, according to the union’s  website .  -- With assistance from  Randy Woods  and  Nathan Crooks  in
Santiago. Editors:  James Attwood ,  Rebecca Keenan   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Craze  in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  