-- Ex-Comverse Chief Alexander to Forfeit $46 Million, Settle Backdating Case
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2010-11-23T20:14:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/comverse-ex-chief-alexander-agrees-to-forfeit-46-million.html
Jacob “Kobi” Alexander , the former
head of  Comverse Technology Inc. , agreed to pay $53.6 million to
settle a Securities and Exchange Commission probe of allegations
that he led an options-backdating scheme at the company.  Alexander will disgorge $26.2 million and pay $21.4 million
in interest, in addition to a $6 million fine, according to a
letter today from defense lawyer  Robert Morvillo  to U.S.
District Judge  Nicholas Garaufis  in Brooklyn, New York.
Alexander and his wife will give up two U.S. bank accounts in a
separate civil-forfeiture action filed by federal prosecutors, 
according to the letter. The accounts hold $46 million, according
to a statement by prosecutors in Brooklyn.  “Mr. Alexander is pleased to have resolved the SEC and
civil-forfeiture actions and to put these matters behind him,”
Jeremy Temkin, another lawyer for the ex-Comverse chief, said in
a phone interview. “Like the previous settlements of the other
civil cases, the resolutions of the SEC and civil-forfeiture
actions is without any admission of fault on his part.”  Alexander, an Israeli citizen who was New York-based
Comverse’s chief executive officer, was arrested in Namibia in
September 2006. He is free on bail in that country while the
U.S. seeks his extradition to face criminal charges related to
the alleged stock-option backdating.  ‘Financial Consequences’  Alexander, who originally fought the forfeiture, consented
to the action if the money were returned to Comverse, which has
agreed to use it to settle shareholder litigation.  “Alexander fled halfway around the world, but he was not
able to escape the financial consequences of his crimes,” U.S.
Attorney  Loretta Lynch  in Brooklyn said in the statement  In December, Alexander agreed to contribute $60 million as
part of a $225 million settlement Comverse reached with
shareholders. Comverse makes voice-mail software.  In April, Alexander won an appeal declaring part of
Namibia’s Extradition Act unconstitutional, the Namibian
reported.  The SEC and forfeiture settlements, together with other
civil settlements approved earlier this year, “resolve
virtually all of the civil litigation related to Comverse” that
was before Garaufis, according to Morvillo’s letter.  Morvillo and Temkin are partners at Morvillo, Abramowitz,
Grand, Iason, Anello & Bohrer PC in New York.  The forfeiture case is U.S. v. All Funds on Deposit at, 06-
cv-3730, the SEC case is SEC v. Alexander, 06-cv-3844, and the
criminal case is U.S. v. Alexander, 06-cr-628, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thom Weidlich  in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 