-- Consumer Confidence Unexpectedly Rises on Optimism About Economic Growth
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2010-11-23T08:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/consumer-confidence-unexpectedly-rises-on-optimism-about-economic-growth.html
Italian consumer confidence 
unexpectedly rose in November to the highest in 10 months as
households grew optimistic about the economy even after the
recovery lost pace in the third quarter.  The  Isae Institute’s  consumer sentiment index increased to
108.5 from 107.7 in October, the Rome-based research center said
today in a statement. The reading was the highest since January.
Economists forecast the index to fall to 107.4, the  median of 11
estimates  in a Bloomberg survey showed.  “People’s opinion about their opportunities and
possibilities for saving are favorable,” Isae said in the
report. “The outlook for the family budget has also improved.”  Italy’s export-led  recovery  from last year’s recession
slowed in the third quarter as gross domestic product rose 0.2
percent, less than half than in the previous three months. The
 unemployment rate  rose in September for the first time in seven
months to a seasonally adjusted 8.3 percent amid weak  consumer
spending  and announcements of further pay and staff reductions 
by companies including  Telecom Italia SpA  and  UniCredit SpA .  Even after the faster-than-forecast slowdown, Italy’s $2.3
trillion economy will probably expand 1 percent this year and
1.3 percent in 2011, the Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development said on Nov. 18. The country’s jobless rate
remains below the euro-region’s 10 percent.  Political uncertainty may cloud the economic outlook in
coming months as divisions within the governing coalition have
led to calls for Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  to resign. The
premier may be forced to step down should he lose a confidence
vote in parliament scheduled for Dec. 14.  Fiat SpA  Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  told
reporters in Brussels on Nov. 10 the “uncertainty” surrounding
the government is “the biggest” threat to companies in Italy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lorenzo Totaro  in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  