-- Copper, Zinc Drop as China Credit Cooling, Korea May Hurt Demand
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-23T09:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/copper-drops-in-london-and-shanghai-on-europe-debt-china-demand-concerns.html
Copper, zinc and aluminum declined
on concern China’s banks may soon end loans for the year,
damping demand from the biggest user. An artillery exchange
between North and South Korea boosted the dollar, which also
weighed on metals priced in the U.S. currency.  The three-month delivery contract on the London Metal
Exchange dropped 2 percent to $8,125 a metric ton at 4:40 p.m.
in Singapore. The metal for March delivery on the Shanghai
Futures Exchange closed 3 percent lower at 61,490 yuan ($9,249).
Zinc for March delivery tumbled the 5 percent limit in Shanghai.  Copper “is facing resistance as physical demand isn’t so
good in China,” Cao Yanghui, an analyst at Yong’an Futures Co.,
said from Hangzhou.  China’s biggest banks are close to reaching annual lending
quotas and plan to stop expanding their loan books to avoid
exceeding the limits, according to four people with knowledge of
the matter. Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd., Bank of
China Ltd. and Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. are only
extending new loans as existing ones get repaid, the people
said, speaking on condition of anonymity.  Stocks and U.S. futures dropped and the dollar gained
against 15 of its 16 major counterparts after South Korea’s
Joint Chiefs of Staff said in a statement North Korea fired
“several” artillery shells into the South, and South Korea
returned fire.  Korea Exchange  South Korea scrambled fighter jets and returned fire after
North Korea lobbed dozens of shells into its waters and an
island, injuring 14 soldiers, according to the government and
YTN reports. The dollar index increased 0.3 percent to 78.951.  Currently, the Korean exchange “only affects the dollar,
as a safer investment choice among currencies, which in turn
weighs on copper,” said Ying Haoliang, an analyst at Orient
Securities Futures Co. “But if it escalates, it might have a
direct impact on actual supply and demand.”  With little economic data expected this week, base metals
may continue to track the dollar, while the Thanksgiving holiday
in the U.S. may deter the market from taking any aggressive
action,  Leon Westgate , an analyst at Standard Bank Plc in
London, said in a research note e-mailed today.  “A general feeling of uncertainty and a lack of momentum
still dominates, with metals likely to continue reacting to
headlines and other exogenous factors this week, rather than
forging a path of their own,” he said.  Dollar Boost  The dollar was also boosted after Irish Prime Minister
Brian Cowen said he would seek national elections early next
year once his government passes its 2011 budget. The
announcement raised concern it would hinder the nation’s aid
talks with the European Union and the International Monetary
Fund.  Moody’s Investors Service said it may lower Ireland’s
credit rating by more than previously anticipated. A “multi-
notch” downgrade to the country’s Aa2 rating was “most
likely,” it said.  Copper traded on Changjiang, Shanghai’s biggest nonferrous
metals market, was quoted at 61,700 yuan to 61,800 yuan today, a
discount of 100 yuan to 200 yuan to the front-month futures
contract on the Shanghai Futures Exchange.  “Europe’s debt crisis helped the dollar and in turn
weighed on copper,” Cao said. “Trading firms said demand from
end consumers is not good, because winter is approaching.”  Demand for metals typically increases in spring and autumn,
and weakens in summer and winter as extreme weather conditions
and holidays may force some plants to suspend operations.  Chinese imports will likely remain low through to the end
of the year as the domestic market continues to trade at a large
physical discount and exchange warehouse stocks expand to levels
not seen since June, Barclays Capital said in a report
yesterday. The implied destocking along the supply chain
indicated imports may pick up in early 2011, it said.  Aluminum in London fell 1.4 percent to $2,256.5 a ton, zinc
declined 2.5 percent to $2,085 a ton and lead lost 2.7 percent
to $2,189.75 a ton. Nickel slid 1.9 percent to $21,190 a ton,
and tin dropped 1.2 percent to $24,000 a ton.  -- Helen Sun . Editors: Richard Dobson, Matthew Oakley.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Helen Sun  in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpool4@bloomberg.net  