-- Copper Drops as Demand May Slow Down on China Inflation Curbs
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2010-11-23T13:19:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/copper-drops-for-third-day-on-concern-china-inflation-curbs-may-sap-demand.html
Copper fell for a second day in New
York on concern demand may weaken as China, the world’s biggest
consumer of the metal, moves to cool inflation.  China’s largest banks are near reaching annual lending
quotas and plan to stop expanding loan books, according to four
people with knowledge of the matter. The country’s benchmark
money-market rate rose on speculation borrowing costs will
climb. Copper also dropped as the dollar gained and equities
retreated after North and South Korea exchanged artillery fire.  “Market rumors that China will indeed raise its rates this
week are keeping prices under pressure,”  Alex Heath , head of
industrial-metals trading at Royal Bank of Canada Europe Ltd. in
London, said in a report.  Copper for March delivery fell 6.7 cents, or 1.8 percent,
to $3.695 a pound at 8:06 a.m. on the Comex in New York. Copper
for delivery in three months dropped 2.1 percent to $8,119 a
metric ton on the London Metal Exchange. All of the six main
metals traded on the LME slid.  “The impact of policy tightening and the sale of
commodities from strategic state stockpiles could potentially
have a more significant impact on underlying commodity
markets,”  Nick Moore  and  Daniel Major , analysts at RBS Global
Banking & Markets in London, said of China in a report today.  Jets Scramble  South Korea returned fire and scrambled fighter jets after
North Korean artillery killed two soldiers. The U.S. Dollar
Index, a six-currency gauge of the greenback’s strength, added
as much as 0.6 percent, making dollar-priced metals more
expensive in terms of other monies. The MSCI World Index of
shares dropped as much as 0.7 percent.  “The Korea news is only likely to contribute to a broader
theme of risk aversion,” Major said by e-mail.  Chinese regulators are monitoring banks’ loan balances to
ensure an official 2010 target for new lending isn’t exceeded,
the people said. The government in the past month stepped up a
campaign to limit credit expansion after inflation quickened and
property prices surged. Imports of copper into the country slid
to a one-year low, figures showed yesterday.  “Additional supply as a result of sustained sales of
Chinese base-metal stockpiles has the potential to weigh on
prices in the coming months,” Moore and Major said.  European Manufacturing  A report showing that growth in Europe’s services and
manufacturing industries unexpectedly accelerated in November
helped prices to rebound from the day’s lowest levels. A
composite index based on a survey of euro-area purchasing
managers in both industries advanced to 55.4, Markit Economics
said. A reading above 50 indicates expansion.  Figures due at 10 a.m. New York time may show lower sales
of existing houses in the U.S., the world’s second-biggest
copper user. Construction accounts for a quarter of copper
demand, according to the Copper Development Association.
Purchases fell to a 4.48 million annual rate in October,
according to the median of 71 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey.  Anglo American Plc and Xstrata Plc will have to resume wage
talks after most workers reject a pay offer, according to the
union representing strikers at the Collahuasi mine in Chile, the
world’s fourth-biggest. The stoppage is in its third week. A
wage proposal was accepted yesterday by 170 of 1,551 workers,
company spokeswoman Bernardita Fernandez said today by e-mail.  Higher Premium  Immediate-delivery LME copper’s premium to the three-month
contract jumped 52 percent to $35 a ton today. Prices moved on
Nov. 8 to a so-called backwardation, when nearby metal trades
above longer-dated contracts, potentially indicating concern
about near-term supply.  Orders to draw copper from LME stockpiles, or canceled
warrants, gained 1.8 percent to 32,325 tons, daily exchange
figures showed. Copper inventories fell 0.3 percent to 358,050
tons.  Tin for three-month delivery on the LME slid 1.9 percent to
$23,850 a ton. The metal has jumped 41 percent this year,
leading advances on the exchange, after production was disrupted
in Indonesia and the Democratic Republic of Congo.  Aluminum declined 1.6 percent to $2,250.50 a ton and nickel
shed 1.1 percent to $21,369 a ton. Lead dropped 3.4 percent to
$2,173 a ton and zinc fell 2.2 percent to $2,090 a ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Kolesnikova  in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter@bloomberg.net . 