-- Corn Futures Rebound From Six-Week Low on Adverse Weather; Soybeans Climb
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2010-11-23T21:10:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/corn-futures-rebound-from-six-week-low-on-adverse-weather-soybeans-climb.html
Corn futures rebounded from a six-
week low on speculation that adverse weather will threaten crops
in Brazil and Argentina. Soybeans rose for the second straight
day.  Dry weather this week will produce a two-month rainfall
deficit of 7 inches (18 centimeters) across fields in South
America, according to T-Storm Weather. A La Nina weather event
has reduced moisture, the forecaster said. The U.S. is the
world’s biggest exporter of corn and soybeans, followed by
Brazil and Argentina.  “People are very concerned that the production in South
America will be curtailed by the dry weather,” increasing
demand for U.S. supplies, said  Dan Basse , the president of
AgResource Co. in Chicago. “Corn had gotten too cheap,” and
producers of food, animal feed and fuel are increasing
purchases, he said.  Corn futures for March delivery rose 13.75 cents, or 2.6
percent, to close at $5.43 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the Chicago
Board of Trade. Earlier, the price touched $5.2025, the lowest
for the most active contract since Oct. 8.  Soybean futures for January delivery rose 17.5 cents, or
1.4 percent, to $12.39 a bushel. Yesterday, the price gained 1.7
percent.  On Nov. 9, corn rose to a 26-month high of $6.175 after the
U.S. Department of Agriculture said adverse weather reduced the
size of the domestic crop. On Nov. 12, soybeans reached $13.485,
the highest since August 2009, as Chinese demand surged.  La Nina is a global-weather pattern caused by cooling
equatorial waters in the Pacific Ocean.  China’s Outlook  Prices also rose on speculation that China’s steps to cool
the economy are aimed at industries outside agriculture and
food, said  Jim Gerlach , the president of A/C Trading Inc. in
Fowler, Indiana.  The China Banking Regulatory Commission said yesterday it
will increase loans to the agricultural industry with an
emphasis on crops facing shortages, including rice, corn,
vegetables, cotton and sugar.  China’s northeastern Heilongjiang province, the country’s
top supplier of corn and soybeans, said today that large buyers
of grain, including Cofco Ltd., Chinatex Corp., and foreign-
owned companies, must report to authorities every five days on
the progress of their purchases in the province.  “Some of China’s actions really make you wonder what’s
going on regarding their domestic grain reserves and how much
longer they’ll be able to jawbone the market lower,” Gerlach
said. “If Chinese grain production is so stellar, why do they
appear to be doing all they can to expand and track
production?”  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $48.6 billion in
2009, followed by soybeans at $31.8 billion, government data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net  