-- Cotton Falls Exchange Limit to One-Month Low on China Credit, Dollar Gain
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2010-11-23T20:59:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/cotton-falls-exchange-limit-to-one-month-low-on-china-credit-dollar-gain.html
Cotton fell to a one-month low,
dropping the exchange limit, as China said it will clamp down on
the use of bank credit for speculation in agricultural markets
and as the dollar gained.  China, the biggest consumer of the fiber, will make it
tougher to use loans to hoard products or to artificially
inflate prices of agricultural goods, the China Banking
Regulatory Commission said yesterday on its website. The dollar
rose against most of its major counterparts after North Korea
and South Korea exchanged artillery fire, encouraging demand for
the greenback as a refuge.  “China is making efforts to control prices,” said  Sid Love , the president of Joe Kropf & Sid Love Consulting Services
LLC in Overland Park, Kansas. “Also, the dollar strengthening,
because of Korea, is putting pressure on most commodities.”  Cotton for March delivery declined the exchange limit of 6
cents, or 5.1 percent, to settle at $1.1179 a pound at 2:44 p.m.
on ICE Futures U.S. in New York, the lowest price since Oct. 20.
The contract has plunged the maximum allowed five times in less
than two weeks and is down 26 percent since touching a record
$1.5195 on Nov. 10.  The  Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index  of 19 raw materials
declined as much as 1.4 percent, led by copper and cotton.  Last week, China increased bank-reserve requirements
following the fastest rise in consumer prices in two years, and
Premier  Wen Jiabao  called for a crackdown on speculation in
agricultural goods, saying price controls may be needed on
“daily necessities.” Cotton dropped 8.2 percent last week.  On China’s Zhengzhou Commodity Exchange, cotton futures for
May delivery fell as much as 5 percent today, declining for the
second-straight session.  Cotton in New York still is up 48 percent this year amid
surging demand from China and plunging  inventories  in the U.S.,
the leading exporter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Debarati Roy  in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  