-- Coty Agrees to Buy Skin-Care Company Philosophy From Carlyle
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2010-11-23T10:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/coty-agrees-to-buy-skin-care-company-philosophy-from-carlyle.html
Coty Inc.,  the perfume maker owned
by Joh A. Benckiser SE, will acquire beauty company Philosophy
from private equity firm Carlyle Group as it seeks to build its
luxury skincare business outside of Europe.  Philosophy will probably generate sales of more than $200
million this year, New York-based Coty said today in a
statement. The sale price wasn’t disclosed. Carlyle, based in
Washington, had sought $1 billion for the skincare maker,
according to people familiar with the situation who declined to
be identified because the negotiations were private.  The acquisition of Philosophy, based in Phoenix, Arizona,
forms part of Coty’s strategy to increase sales of luxury
skincare and fragrances, particularly in the U.S. and Asia. Coty
this month agreed to acquire German cosmetics firm Dr. Scheller
Cosmetics AG and is also considering a purchase of OPI Products
Inc., the North Hollywood, California-based nail polish maker,
according to two people familiar with the situation.  Philosophy makes anti-aging moisturizers, one-minute skin
peels, perfumes and lipsticks which are sold at  Sephora ,  J.C.
Penney Co.,  Nordstrom Inc., Macy’s Inc. and QVC Inc. stores.
Skin-care entrepreneur Cristina Carlino founded the company in
1996 as a way of bridging the gap between skin-care products
offered in doctor’s offices and retail outlets.  Coty is aiming to almost double sales to about $7 billion
by 2015. The company reported revenue of about $3.6 billion in
the financial year that ended in June.  Coty’s luxury business has revenue of about $1.7 billion,
around half of which comes from Europe, according to  Michele Scannavini , head of the prestige unit. The U.S. accounts for 25
percent of sales, while Asia represents 10 percent. Fragrances
such as  Calvin Klein  and Chloe account for 95 percent of Coty
Prestige revenue, while the rest comes from skincare, mainly
under the Lancaster brand, which is present only in Europe.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cristina Alesci  in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 