-- Collapse of Cowen Government Gives Ireland Chance to Rebuke Prime Minister
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y   a n d   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 2010-11-23T11:32:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/cowen-s-future-in-jeopardy-as-voters-in-ireland-get-first-chance-at-rebuke.html
Prime Minister  Brian Cowen’s  future
may be played out in a corner of Ireland nicknamed the
“forgotten county,” where voters will get the chance this week
to show him that the country’s bailout has a political cost.  A special election for the Irish parliamentary seat of
Donegal Southwest takes place on Nov. 25, four days after Cowen
sought international aid. His coalition partners, the Green
Party, said yesterday they will quit the government next month
and independent lawmakers threatened to block his budget. Cowen
responded by saying he will hold national elections in early
2011 after first trying to win backing for the budget.  “I’m angry about the situation Ireland is in,” said
Brendan McGloin, 41, a self-employed sculptor in Donegal who
will vote against Cowen’s Fianna Fail party, ending a lifetime
of support. “I hope they get kicked out. I feel like the
government has cheated us.”  Cowen, 50, has led what was the euro region’s fastest-
growing economy into its worst recession on record and the
potential loss of economic sovereignty 88 years after gaining
independence from the U.K. The former finance minister, who
stoked the boom with tax cuts and spending increases in 2006 and
2007, may struggle to stay in power as the Greens desert him.  “It would be difficult to see Cowen leading Fianna Fail
into the election,” said  Simon Barry , chief economist at Ulster
Bank Capital Markets in Dublin. “The likely scenario is that
Fianna Fail will think about having a new leader at the top.”  Not ‘Bogeyman’  After earlier denials that Ireland would need help from the
European Union and International Monetary Fund, Cowen was forced
on Nov. 21 to ask for a package that analysts at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. estimate may total 95 billion euros ($130 billion).  Cowen defended his reversal. “I don’t accept I’m the
bogeyman,” he said at a press conference that night in Dublin.
“Now circumstances have changed, we’ve changed our policies.”  While Fianna Fail is second in the Donegal polls behind
nationalist party  Sinn Fein , the election will be first test of
voter opinion on those events.  The most northerly county in Ireland, adjacent to Northern
Ireland and 140 miles from Dublin, accounts for less than 4
percent of the country’s population. During the boom, holiday
homes were built across the county. Prices for residential
property have sunk 36 percent since 2006, according to an index
compiled by Irish Life & Permanent Plc and the Economic & Social
Research Institute in Dublin.  ‘Knife Edge’  “I started business in 2004 when things were good,” said
Brendan O’Donnell, 39, a real-estate developer in Donegal. “I
employed 40 people. Now it’s down to me and my partner. I live
on a knife edge. I hope Fianna Fail get wiped out.”  With Cowen’s majority in parliament evaporating, Donegal
may help decide whether he can pass the budget, called for Dec.
7 to approve 6 billion euros of spending cuts and tax increases.  Cowen has the support of 82 lawmakers in the parliament,
including six Greens and a number of independents, compared with
79 for the combined opposition. The Green party said yesterday
it wants national elections in the second half of January.  Independent lawmakers  Michael Lowry  and Jackie Healy-Rae
also said they may withdraw support for the budget.  “Ideally, they’d back the budget first and then resolve
the government,” said  Christoph Weil , a senior economist at
Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “If there’s no budget for 2011,
that would put the country in a very critical situation.”  Trailing in Poll  In Donegal, the party has 19 percent support prior to this
week’s election, according to a poll for Paddy Power Plc
published on Nov. 17. Sinn Fein, led by  Gerry Adams , is at 40
percent, according to the poll of 510 people carried out between
Nov. 12 and Nov. 16. No margin of error was given.  Fianna Fail was born out of an armed independence movement
that fought against centuries-old British rule in Ireland from
1916 until 1921. A treaty was signed in 1921 with the U.K.
government, granting 26 of Ireland’s 32 counties partial
independence and partitioning the country.  The party’s founder, Eamon de Valera, initially rejected
the treaty because it didn’t grant full independence. Ireland
declared itself a republic in 1949. The British government said
last week it may contribute to Ireland’s rescue.  “This is our worst day and lowest day,” Ned O’Keefe, a
Fianna Fail lawmaker, told broadcaster RTE on Nov. 19 as Cowen
held talks with officials from the EU and IMF on the shape of a
potential bailout. “We are sovereign people and blood has been
lost over it. It’s said that the U.K. chancellor is now offering
us money. I never believed I’d see that.”  Tullamore Born  Cowen, who was born in Tullamore in the Irish midlands, was
finance minister from September 2004 until he became prime
minister in 2008. Once a Gaelic football player, Cowen worked as
an attorney before he was elected to parliament in 1984 in a
ballot caused by the death of his father.  Cowen’s leadership went disastrously wrong for Ireland
following the 2008 demise of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
which turned a slowdown in the property market into an implosion
that engulfed the economy.  Moody’s Investors Service said yesterday a “multi-notch”
downgrade in Ireland’s credit rating was “most likely” because
the bailout would increase its debt burden. Banks in the country
may require as much as 50 billion euros in support, the
government said last month.  Bank Shares Drop  Shares of  Bank of Ireland Plc , Ireland’s largest bank, fell
as much as 27 percent in Dublin trading today, while  Allied
Irish Banks Plc , the second-largest, slid 19 percent, as concern
mounted that a government bank bailout will dilute shareholders.  The lenders extended declines yesterday following comments
by  Matthew Elderfield , the country’s head of financial
regulation, that banks may get immediate capital injections.  Irish central bank Governor  Patrick Honohan  said today he
is “relaxed” about the idea of foreign investors taking
control of Ireland’s largest banks. Foreign banks can help
improve access to credit and the nation “will have a slimmed
down” banking system in the future, Honohan said.  Voters aren’t happy with Cowen’s performance. National
support for Fianna Fail, which has governed Ireland since 1997,
dropped to a record low this month, the Sunday Business Post
reported on Nov. 21. Backing for the party dropped 1 percentage
point to 17 percent, the newspaper said.  Fine Gael , the largest
opposition group, rose 1 percentage point to 33 percent, while
Labour was unchanged at 27 percent, according to the report.  “Now we have economists from Europe telling us what to do,
it’s not right,” says McGloin, whose sculpting work revolves
around Irish culture and mythology. “Ireland fought for its
independence and it shouldn’t be given up.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Colm Heatley  in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net ;
 Dara Doyle  at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rodney Jefferson at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net  