-- Crude Oil Falls as Europe Debt Concerns Outweigh Supply Decline Forecast
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2010-11-23T13:46:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/crude-pares-losses-as-supply-decrease-forecast-tempers-europe-debt-concern.html
Oil declined in New York as concern
that Europe’s debt crisis will hurt economic growth outweighed
forecasts that U.S. crude stockpiles dropped last week.  U.S. crude inventories declined 2 million barrels, or 0.6
percent, in the seven days ended Nov. 19 from 357.6 million a
week earlier, according to the median of 11 analyst estimates
before an Energy Department report tomorrow. Yields on Spanish
and Portuguese debt rose, indicating that Ireland’s plan to seek
a rescue risks escalating the crisis to the southern Europe
nations with large budget deficits.  “With crude stocks still plentiful, it will take a sharp
move in equities or the dollar to break oil out of its tight
range,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst with VTB Capital in
London.  Crude for January delivery fell as much as $1.46, or 1.8
percent, to $80.28 a barrel in electronic trading on the New
York Mercantile Exchange. It was at $80.65 at 1:44 p.m. London
time. Brent crude for January settlement also dropped as much as
$1.46 to $82.50 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange.  Oil recouped some losses as South Korea scrambled fighter
jets and returned fire after nuclear-armed North Korea lobbed
dozens of shells into its territory, injuring 14 soldiers,
according to the government and YTN reports.  A South Korean Defense Ministry official, who declined to
be identified, confirmed the shelling. The military has been put
on high alert and will “respond strongly” to further
provocation, he said.  ‘Credit Negative’  Ireland became the second euro country to seek a rescue as
the cost of saving its banks threatened a repeat of the Greek
debt crisis that destabilized the currency. Moody’s Investors
Service said yesterday that a bailout by the European Union and
the International Monetary Fund may raise the debt burden and
pose a “credit negative” for the country.  “Besides Ireland, people are worried about Spain and
Portugal so oil futures are following the focus on the euro
zone,” said  Victor Shum , a senior principal at energy
consultants Purvin & Gertz Inc. in Singapore. “Any financial
trouble would slow down the economic recovery and could impact
fuel demand.”  The extra yield demanded to hold Portuguese 10-year debt
rather than German bunds rose 3 basis points yesterday to 407
basis points. The Spanish spread with Germany rose seven basis
points today to 216 basis points.  The dollar rose against all of its major counterparts
except the franc as the Korean crossfire fueled demand for safer
assets. It climbed to $1.3542 per euro from $1.3627 in New York
yesterday.  The Energy Department is scheduled to release its weekly
report on oil inventories at 10:30 a.m. tomorrow in Washington.
The industry-funded American Petroleum Institute is due to
publish its data later today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Grant Smith  in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  