-- Crude Oil Declines in New York as Irish Debt Talks May Falter on Election
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 2010-11-23T07:20:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/crude-oil-declines-in-new-york-as-irish-debt-talks-may-falter-on-election.html
Oil fell in New York as concern an
election in Ireland may hinder the country’s financial bailout
boosted the dollar against the euro.  Futures extended yesterday’s 0.3 percent decline as the
dollar strengthened for a second day against the euro, limiting
the appeal of riskier assets such as commodities. Ireland called
elections amid disaffection with the country’s bailout plan,
raising concern that Europe’s debt crisis will spread, crimping
economic growth and reducing fuel demand.  “Besides Ireland, people are worried about Spain and
Portugal so oil futures are following the focus on the euro
zone,” said  Victor Shum , a senior principal at consultants
Purvin & Gertz Inc. in Singapore. “Any financial trouble would
slow down the economic recovery and could impact fuel demand.”  Crude for January delivery fell as much as 84 cents, or 1
percent, to $80.90 a barrel in electronic trading on the New
York Mercantile Exchange. It was at $81.32 at 3:17 p.m.
Singapore time. Earlier, the contract advanced as much as 0.4
percent to $82.10. Futures have gained 2.5 percent this year.  The dollar rose as much as 0.7 percent today against the
16-nation euro to $1.3527. The  Dollar Index , used by
IntercontinentalExchange Inc. to track the greenback against
currencies including the yen and Swiss franc, also increased for
a second day, gaining as much as 0.4 percent.  Korea Shelling  Oil pared some losses as South Korea scrambled fighter jets
and returned fire after nuclear-armed North Korea lobbed dozens
of shells into its territory, injuring four soldiers, according
to a Yonhap News report.  A South Korean Defense Ministry official, who declined to
be identified, confirmed the shelling. The military has been put
on high alert and will “respond strongly” to further
provocation, he said.  Brent crude for January settlement fell as much as 86
cents, or 1 percent, to $83.10 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange. Yesterday, the contract dropped 38
cents, or 0.5 percent, to $83.96.  Ireland became the second euro country to seek a rescue as
the cost of saving its banks threatened a repeat of the Greek
debt crisis that destabilized the currency. Moody’s Investors
Service said yesterday a bailout by the European Union and the
International Monetary Fund may raise the debt burden and pose a
“credit negative” for the country.  Ireland’s Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  called elections after
support for his government unraveled following the bid for
financial aid. Cowen made the announcement yesterday hours after
the Green Party said it would pull out of his coalition. He said
the vote will come early next year after passage of a 2011
budget.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christian Schmollinger  in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at   crussell7@bloomberg.net  