-- Oil Falls for Third Day on Concern European Crisis Will Spread
-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 2010-11-23T21:58:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/crude-oil-falls-as-europe-debt-concerns-outweigh-supply-decline-forecast.html
Crude oil dropped for a third day on
concern that Europe’s debt crisis will spread and hurt economic
growth after German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said the euro is in
an “exceptionally serious” situation.  Oil fell 0.6 percent as the dollar strengthened the most
against the euro in three months. The move came a day after
Ireland asked for a financial rescue from the European Union and
International Monetary Fund. A stronger dollar curbs the appeal
of investing in commodities.  “The market’s concerned about European contagion with
Portugal going next and Spain probably being the coup de
grace,” said  Stephen Schork , president of consultant Schork
Group Inc. in Villanova, Pennsylvania.  Crude for January delivery fell 49 cents to settle at
$81.25 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Prices have
risen 4.8 percent in the past year. Brent crude for January
settlement dropped 71 cents, or 0.8 percent, to $83.25 a barrel
on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Prices declined from the settlement after the American
Petroleum Institute reported at 4:30 p.m. that U.S. crude-oil
stockpiles increased 5.19 million barrels to 357.7 million.
January oil fell 69 cents, or 0.8 percent, to $81.05 a barrel in
electronic trading at 4:39 p.m.  Ireland is the second European country to need a rescue,
after Greece. EU officials estimate that a bailout package for
Ireland may amount to 85 billion euros ($114 billion), according
to two people familiar with the talks who spoke on condition of
anonymity because the discussions were private.  European Contagion  Yields on Spanish and Portuguese debt rose as the Irish
rescue risked escalating the European crisis to the southern
European nations with large budget deficits. Spain’s 10-year
yield spread over German bunds widened to a euro-era record.  “Besides Ireland, people are worried about Spain and
Portugal, so oil futures are following the focus on the euro
zone,” said  Victor Shum , a senior principal at energy
consultants Purvin & Gertz Inc. in Singapore. “Any financial
trouble would slow down the economic recovery and could impact
fuel demand.”  The dollar climbed 1.9 percent to $1.3372 per euro at 3:14
p.m. in New York. It was the first time the euro dropped to
below $1.34 since September. The greenback also advanced as
North Korea and South Korea exchanged fire, fueling demand for
safer assets.  ’Dollar and Gold’  “People are still worried about whether Ireland is the
beginning or end of the euro zone’s problems,” said  Peter Beutel , president of Cameron Hanover Inc., a trading-advisory
company in New Canaan, Connecticut. “When you have a political
event such as what is going on on the Korean Peninsula, people
tend to have an interest in both the dollar and gold.”  Gold for December delivery gained 1.5 percent to settle at
$1,377.60 an ounce on the Comex in New York.  The U.S. economy grew at a 2.5 percent annual rate in the
third quarter, more than previously calculated, as companies
increased shipments abroad and Americans boosted their spending,
figures from the Commerce Department showed today in Washington.  Oil rebounded from the day’s low of $80.28 a barrel after
failing to breach technical support near $80 and on a forecast
that the U.S. Energy Department will report tomorrow that oil
supplies fell last week for the third time in a row.  “There’s a defense of the $80 mark going on,” said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in New
York. “The difficulty here is that the bulls who argued that
changes in inventories were irrelevant for months now have to
argue that an expected decline in inventories makes oil a
bargain.”  Crude Inventories  U.S. crude inventories probably declined 2 million barrels,
or 0.6 percent, last week from 357.6 million a week earlier,
according to the median of 16 analysts in a Bloomberg News
survey. The report is scheduled to be released at 10:30 a.m. in
Washington.  U.S. gasoline demand at the pump fell 0.9 percent to
average 9.12 million barrels a day in the week ended Nov. 19,
MasterCard Inc. reported today in its SpendingPulse report. The
decline was the fourth in five weeks.  Gasoline for December delivery dropped 1.77 cents, or 0.8
percent, to settle at $2.1342 a gallon on the Nymex.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 521,489
contracts as of 4:43 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 448,548
contracts yesterday, 37 percent below the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.33 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margot Habiby  in Dallas at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 