-- Default Swaps Soar on `Sacrosanct' Senior Europe Bank Debt: Credit Markets
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2010-11-24T16:57:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/default-swaps-soar-on-sacrosanct-senior-europe-bank-debt-credit-markets.html
The cost of protecting against
defaults on senior notes of European banks is soaring on
speculation bondholders will be forced to take losses as
governments try to share the burden of taxpayer-funded bailouts.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of credit-default swaps
on senior debt rose 6.5 basis points, or 0.065 percentage point,
to 157.5. basis points. Contracts on Portugal’s Banco Espirito
Santo SA are at a record, and Spain’s Banco Santander SA are at
the highest level in five months.  Europe’s debt crisis has spread to Ireland from Greece, and
bond investors bet that Portugal and Spain will be next in line
for a bailout from the European Union and International Monetary
Fund. The EU estimates a rescue for Ireland, downgraded
yesterday by Standard & Poor’s, may total 85 billion euros ($113
billion).  “Under a ‘bail-in’ regime, senior bondholders will most
likely find themselves as potential burden-sharers, which is
in stark contrast with the rules of engagement of the market
hitherto,”  Roberto Henriques , an analyst at JPMorgan Chase
& Co. in London, said in a research report. “Even at the worst
point of the current crisis, it was generally a given that
senior debt was sacrosanct.”  Subordinated bonds have largely borne the brunt of losses
because they stop paying before senior securities in case of a
default or debt restructuring. Should banks be unable to pay
senior bondholders, they may find it more difficult and
expensive to raise money.  Anglo Irish Bank Corp.  investors were
forced to take 20 cents on the euro for subordinated debt this
week.  Relative Yield  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own company bonds instead of similar maturity
government debt rose 3 basis points to 169 basis points, the
highest since Oct. 20, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate Index. Yields averaged
3.61 percent.  Performance Food Group Co. withdrew a planned $550 million
note sale citing “adverse market conditions.” National
Amusements Inc., the movie-theater chain and holding company
controlled by billionaire  Sumner Redstone , planned to issue $390
million of bonds. Loan prices fell yesterday and relative yields
on emerging market debt soared.  “There’s a risk-off trade right now because there’s a lot
of fear in the marketplace,” said  Kingman Penniman , chief
executive officer of KDP Investment Advisors in Montpelier,
Vermont. “With the combination of everything that’s happening
in Europe and Asia and the aggressive amount of new issuance
that’s come recently, we’re definitely seeing a correction.”  Sales Pulled  Performance Food, owned by Blackstone Group LP and
Wellspring Capital Management LLC, pulled its offering even
after sweetening terms for the debt on Nov. 22 in an effort to
attract investors, said a person familiar with the transaction
who declined to be identified because the marketing was private.  Bain Capital LLC’s Burlington Coat Factory Warehouse Corp.
decided to cancel a $1.5 billion debt financing on Nov. 18. In
Asia,  Hongkong Electric Holdings Ltd. , delayed its sale of as
much as $500 million of 10-year dollar bonds due to tensions on
the Korean peninsula, two people familiar with the matter said
today.  Yuzhou Properties Co., a developer in southern China, and
Vietnam National Coal-Mineral Industries Group postponed dollar-
denominated bond offerings as investor appetite for risk
diminished, people with knowledge of the sales said yesterday.  Vienna Insurance  In Europe,  Vienna Insurance Group , the east of the region’s
biggest insurer, postponed its 500 million-euro ($666 million)
sale of 30-year subordinated bonds, according to a banker
involved in the transaction.  Caterpillar Inc. , the world’s biggest maker of construction
equipment, hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to help it sell yuan-
denominated bonds in Hong Kong, according to a person familiar
with the matter.  The Peoria, Illinois-based company plans to raise as much
as 1 billion yuan ($150 million) from two-year bonds, said the
person, who asked not to be identified as the matter is private.  National Amusements may sell its seven-year senior secured
notes as soon as next week, said a person familiar with the
transaction. The notes will have a provision allowing up to 10
percent of the debt to be redeemed at 103 percent annually
during the first three years, after which time all of it can be
called, said the person, who declined to be identified because
terms aren’t set.  Most-Traded Bonds  In the asset-backed securities market, the Securities and
Exchange Commission indefinitely extended the timeframe for bond
issuers to omit credit ratings from marketing materials,
effectively exempting companies from part of the U.S. Dodd-Frank
financial reform act.  Fears of burden sharing are also being seen in senior bank
bonds. The 1 billion euros of senior unsecured floating-rate
notes due 2012 issued by Banco Espirito Santo were at 90.8
cents, down from 93.4 on Nov. 4, according to Bloomberg
composite prices. Its 500 million euros of senior notes due 2013
were at 83 cents, down from 88.38 on Nov. 4.  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA’s 1.25 billion euros of
3.875 percent senior notes due 2015 were at 98.8 cents to yield
4.14 percent, down from 101.7 cents and a yield of 3.47 percent
on Nov. 1, according to Bloomberg composite prices.  While Irish Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  has pledged only
to impose losses on holders of subordinated bonds of
nationalized lenders, investors are concerned his promise won’t
be honored as EU and IMF officials gain authority in Dublin.  Outlook for Bondholders  “There will be private-sector burden-sharing,” said
 Willem Buiter , chief economist at Citigroup Inc. in London.
“Ireland may be the first example, with haircutting of senior
unsecured bank debt and possible sovereign debt restructuring as
well in due course.”  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of contracts on
15 governments reached a record high 181.5 basis points.  Credit-default swaps typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves, paying the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Dublin-based Anglo Irish was taken over by the government
in January 2009 as loan losses spiraled after a real-estate
bubble burst. The government has also taken a 36 percent stake
in Bank of Ireland, the country’s biggest lender, and is
preparing to take a majority share of Allied Irish.  Anglo Irish  Credit-default swaps on Anglo Irish’s bonds may be
triggered following a subordinated debt exchange, with investors
asking the  International Swaps & Derivatives Association  whether
the transaction constitutes a so-called restructuring credit
event.  If ISDA rules that Anglo Irish swaps can be triggered,
buyers of insurance on the bank’s senior bonds should hold off
demanding payment because they may recover more as the risk of
holding the debt increases, according to  Tim Brunne , a credit
strategist at UniCredit SpA in Munich.  Forcing holders of senior bonds sold by some European banks
to take losses may be necessary given the amount of debt
involved, according to Brunne.  “You don’t have the possibility to solve the situation
without cutting the link between the financial sector and the
sovereign, and that’s a problem you see everywhere,” he said.  The 750-billion-euro European Financial Stability Facility,
created in May to support the region’s most indebted
governments, won’t be big enough to rescue Spain, Citigroup’s
Buiter said. A rise in Spanish bank risk could be the “tipping
point” for the financial credit swaps gauge, according to
JPMorgan.  Spanish Banks  Credit-default swaps on Lisbon-based Banco Espirito Santo
have climbed to a record 722, according to CMA. Contracts on
 Banco Santander  are at a five-month high of 236.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  wants buyers of new euro-
region bonds to accept liability clauses starting in 2011, two
years before a revamped crisis-management system kicks in,
according to a government document obtained by Bloomberg News.  “The problem areas are there for all to see -- haircuts
for subordinated bank debt holders and fear that senior holders
could get dragged in,” said  Suki Mann , a credit strategist at
Societe Generale SA in London. “The market has moved on from
Greece, is beating up on Ireland and is looking closely at
Portugal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Abigail Moses  in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  