-- Demjanjuk Says Court Has Taken His `Liberty,' Continuing Trial a `Crime'
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s   a n d   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2010-11-23T15:58:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/demjanjuk-calls-for-trial-to-end-says-possible-defense-witnesses-deceased.html
John Demjanjuk , on trial for aiding
in the murder of 27,900 Jews during World War II, told a Munich
court it had robbed him of his right to “liberty.”  In his second statement to the court in the nearly year-old
case, 90-year-old Demjanjuk said the three judges had ignored
the fact that he was a Nazi prisoner during the war. Prosecutors
say he was trained as a guard and served at the Sobibor
extermination camp from March to September 1943, when the Jews,
mostly deported from the Netherlands, were killed.  “The judges suppress the Israeli, American, Polish,
Russian and Ukrainian files about me, fearing that there is more
evidence of my innocence,” Demjanjuk said in a statement read
to the court by an interpreter. “The decision to continue with
this trial is a crime of infringement of the law and a
deprivation of my liberty.”  Demjanjuk, a Ukraine native and retired autoworker, lived
near Cleveland until he was stripped of his U.S. citizenship and
extradited to Israel in 1986. He was tried there on charges he
was “Ivan the Terrible,” the guard who tortured Jews while
herding them into the Treblinka concentration camp gas chambers.  His death sentence and conviction in the case were
overturned in 1993 by Israel’s Supreme Court, which  said  there
was reasonable doubt that he served at Treblinka. Demjanjuk
returned to the U.S., regaining his citizenship. In 2002, a U.S.
court revoked it again over his alleged role at Sobibor. He was
extradited to Germany to stand trial in Munich in May 2009.  Soviet Union Documents  Earlier today, the court rejected motions by Demjanjuk’s
lawyer for access to more documents from eastern European
countries, the U.S. and Israel as well as additional expert
witnesses on the reliability of documents coming from the former
Soviet Union.  “The court’s bias is further evidenced by their
willingness to ignore the Demjanjuk investigative files still
hidden in Russia,” Demjanjuk’s son, John Demjanjuk Jr., said in
an e-mailed statement. “The history of the Israeli proceeding,
which nearly ended in the execution of the wrong man, should
cause them to want all of the evidence available.”  Spokeswoman Margarete Noetzel said the court wouldn’t
comment on Demjanjuk’s statement.  The court today allowed the reading of the testimony by
Ignat Daniltschenko, a Ukrainian who said he served with
Demjanjuk in Sobibor when they both “participated in the
annihilation of Jews” working as a camp guards. The document
read was a transcript of a 1979 interview by a Soviet prosecutor
taken at the request of U.S. authorities.  Ulrich Busch, Demjanjuk’s attorney who has fought to keep
the incriminating statement out of the case, said it was a
forgery by the Soviet secret police. Daniltschenko’s testimony,
first given in 1949, was pressed out of him by torture, said
Busch. Daniltschenko is now dead.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Oliver Suess  in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net ;
 Karin Matussek  in Munich via 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  