-- Djokovic Looks to Maradona as `Lucky Charm' at ATP Tennis Finals in London
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2010-11-23T01:14:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/djokovic-looks-to-lucky-charm-maradona-at-atp-tennis-finals-in-london.html
Novak Djokovic  thanked his “lucky
charm”  Diego Maradona  after the U.S. Open finalist eased past
 Tomas Berdych  at the season-ending  ATP World Tour Finals .  With former Argentina soccer coach Maradona watching in the
stands, the third-ranked Djokovic beat Berdych 6-3, 6-3 to open
Group A play yesterday at the O2 arena in east London.  Maradona, who captained Argentina to World Cup victory in
1986, had received a mixture of cheers and jeers from the crowd
as he entered the arena halfway through the first set. Djokovic
was among those to welcome him.  “He’s a big legend,” Djokovic told reporters. “We never
met in person. This was the first time. So he’s going to stay
throughout the whole tournament. Hopefully he can be my lucky
charm.”  Djokovic and Maradona, who had exchanged jerseys and
rackets in the past, will play “a little bit of tennis and
football,” today, the Serb said, adding that he kept one of the
shirts Maradona sent him in “a special place” at home in
Belgrade.  “He’s actually doing coaching,” Djokovic said when asked
why Maradona had travelled to watch his match.  “We’re working on some specifics, like how to play with
hands, high balls,” the Serb joked, referring to the
Argentine’s handballed goal against England at the 1986 World
Cup, which Maradona later described as the “hand of God.”  Maradona also met other players at the ATP Finals including
top-ranked  Rafael Nadal  and Britain’s  Andy Murray . Spain’s Nadal
last night fought back from a set down to beat  Andy Roddick  of
the U.S. 3-6, 7-6 (7-5), 6-4 in the other Group A match.  They’d all been star struck on meeting Maradona, according
to Djokovic.  ‘Kind of Nervous’  “He’s one of the biggest icons of the sport ever,”
Djokovic said. “It’s normal that we’re all excited and kind of
nervous in front of him when we speak to him.”  The year-end tournament in London, won by Russia’s  Nikolay Davydenko  last year, has a round-robin format. The top eight
players from this season are split into two groups of four, with
the top two in each section moving into the knockout semifinals.  In today’s Group B matches, Grand Slam record holder  Roger
Federer  faces Murray in the afternoon, while Spain’s  David Ferrer  plays  Robin Soderling  of Sweden in the evening session.  Federer, the winner of a men’s record 16 majors, is trying
to join  Ivan Lendl  and  Pete Sampras  as the only men to have won
the year-end championships five times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  at the 02 arena through the London sports desk
at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  