-- Dollar Near Two-Month High Amid Korean Tension, Europe Contagion Concerns
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 2010-11-24T00:23:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/dollar-near-two-month-high-amid-korean-tension-europe-contagion-concerns.html
The dollar touched a two-month high
against the euro as Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services cut
Ireland’s credit rating,  Asian equities  dropped and tension
between North and South Korea escalated.  The euro was near its lowest level since September versus
the yen before German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  speaks during a
debate on the 2011 budget after yesterday saying the 16-nation
currency is in an “exceptionally serious” situation. The won
slid the most in five months after Yonhap News reported late
yesterday that South Korean President Lee Myung Bak ordered the
military to strike a North Korean missile base on further
provocation, citing a spokeswoman for Lee.  “You can’t have the most liquid market in Asia ex-Japan
getting hammered without some spillover to other Asia-Pacific
markets,”  Sean Callow , senior currency strategist at  Westpac
Banking Corp . in Sydney, said in reference to South Korea. “To
have negative risk events both in Europe and in Asia at the same
time is all a bit much and of course you have China tightening
too. The dollar still has that safe-haven appeal.”  The dollar traded at $1.3377 per euro as of 9:15 a.m. in
Tokyo from $1.3367 in New York yesterday and earlier reached
$1.3360, the strongest level since Sept. 24. It bought 83.25 yen
from 83.16. The euro fetched 111.35 yen from 111.16 yesterday
when it touched 110.75, the least since Sept. 16.  The won fell 2 percent to 1,159.90 per dollar, the most
since June 25. Australia’s currency was at 97.46 cents after
yesterday sliding 1.7 percent, the biggest decline in five weeks.  South Korean President Lee called for retaliation that
would be “multiple-fold” during a video conference with Han
Min Koo, chairman of nation’s Joint Chiefs of Staff, Yonhap
cited presidential spokeswoman Kim Hee Jung as saying.  ‘Provocative Attacks’  The MSCI Asia Pacific  Index  fell 0.9 percent after North
Korea yesterday lobbed artillery shells at a South Korean island,
killing two soldiers and setting houses ablaze in the worst
attack on its neighbor in at least eight months.  “North Korea’s provocative attacks on South Korea aren’t
that rare, so they may happen again,” said  Adam Carr , a senior
economist at ICAP Australia Ltd. in Sydney. “As such, risk
appetite may take a hit again and safe-haven currencies may get
a boost.”  Standard & Poor’s said it’s cutting the long-term sovereign
rating on Ireland to A from AA- and its short-term rating to A-1
from A-1+ on concerns about additional borrowing by the
government.  Europe’s currency dropped yesterday as Merkel said in
Berlin that she will keep pushing for a permanent rescue system
that forces bondholders to accept losses on sovereign defaults
from 2013. At the same time, “tough conditions” will be
imposed on any nation that seeks a bailout.  The cost of insuring Spanish and Portuguese subordinated
bank bonds climbed as traders of credit-default swaps turned
their focus to southern Europe following Ireland’s bailout.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
 Ron Harui  in Singapore at   rharui@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 