-- Dubai International Is Said to Offer Creditors 2% Interest Rate on Loans
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i   a n d   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2010-11-23T11:22:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/dubai-international-said-to-offer-banks-2-rate-on-loans-in-restructuring.html
Dubai International Capital LLC, a
buyout company owned by the Emirate, is offering banks interest
of about 2 percent on new loans as part of a $2.6 billion debt
restructuring, two people with knowledge of the talks said.  The company is also asking its 26 creditor banks to extend
loan maturities to five to six years to allow asset prices to
recover, said the people, who declined to be identified as the
discussions are private. Lenders are in turn seeking a guarantee
from the government to make up any losses if money raised from
the sale of Dubai International’s assets isn’t sufficient to
repay the loan principal, the people said.  Dubai Holding Commercial Operations Group LLC’s 4.75
percent bond due 2014 yields 11.9 percent today, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Both Dubai Holding Commercial
Operations and Dubai International, which owns stakes in budget
hotel chain Travelodge Hotels Ltd. and medical imaging company
Alliance Medical Ltd., are units of Dubai Holding LLC.  The below-market interest rate will push Dubai
International’s creditors to book provisions for loan
impairments. Lenders to state-owned Dubai World, which is paying
a similar interest rate as part of its $24.9 billion debt
restructuring, have set aside 10 percent to 15 percent of the
value of their loans to the company to cover losses.  An official at Dubai International Capital declined to
comment.  Terms Changed  Dubai’s state-owned companies are struggling to repay loans
as the worst financial crisis since the 1930s froze credit
markets. Dubai World, which owns port operator  DP World Ltd. ,
received approval from creditors to alter terms on $24.9 billion
of debt, a person with knowledge of the deal said Oct. 27.  Dubai Holding Commercial, which includes luxury hotel chain
Jumeirah Group LLC and property units, also has a $555 million
loan that matures Nov. 30. The company extended the loan for two
months until September and deferred payment for a second time
until the end of November, it said Sept. 7.  Dubai International proposed to sell assets over five years
to allow their values to recover after they slumped amid the
credit crisis and sought a second extension until Nov. 30 on the
repayment of a $1.25 billion loan, two people with knowledge of
the plan said Sept. 15. Six banks led by  HSBC Holdings Plc  and
 Emirates NBD PJSC  are negotiating with Dubai International on
behalf of lenders on its restructuring, one of the people said.  Spokesmen for HSBC and Emirates NBD declined to comment.  The government hopes that principal lenders reach an
agreement on key commercial terms by Nov. 30 or soon after, one
of the people said. If an agreement is not reached by Nov. 30
the loan would be extended, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Stefania Bianchi  in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net .
 Arif Sharif  in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  