-- Duchovny Survives Grisly Murder Spree in LaBute's `Break of Noon': Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2010-11-23T05:28:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/duchovny-survives-grisly-murder-spree-in-labute-s-break-of-noon-review.html
Screaming sirens and flashing red
lights open  Neil LaBute’s  new play, “The Break of Noon,”
cueing us that something terrible has just happened.  Armed with a knife and a machine gun, a recently fired
employee has just returned to the office building where he
worked and dispatched 37 former colleagues. One survived: The
generically named John Smith, played in this off-Broadway world
premiere by the anything-but-generic  David Duchovny .  Now he sits before us, alone onstage, bedraggled and
wrapped in a dark blue Snuggi, recounting the horrific mass
murder to an unseen police detective. One woman, a secretary he
knew, tried to evade the killer by playing dead. He knew better
and took the time to slit her throat as if to punish her a
little extra, Smith says, his voice breaking just the slightest
bit.  That’s the kind of detail that imbues a LaBute play with an
air of realism, no matter how preposterous the events described
may be. In the next scene, Smith is showing the photograph he
managed to snap of the carnage to a deal-making lawyer, who
admires the severed breast of one of the victims. Smith explains
that the voice of God told him to stay still and be saved.  The lawyer believes the photograph, along with the God
story, will earn a handsome payday, at least $1 million. The
bloody breast in particular really seems to turn him on.  LaBute, the author of “In the Company of Men,” “Fat
Pig” and “The Shape of Things,” traffics in pornography like
this masquerading as social commentary. As in “bash: latter-day
plays,” and now  MCC Theater’s  “Break of Noon,” he often
cloaks it in an added layer of sanctimonious hucksterism.  Pulpit Hustler  Smith becomes a pulpit hustler, preaching about his
acceptance of Jesus after the grisly killings. A star of
Showtime’s hit comedy series  “Californication,”  Duchovny
leaves whatever sex appeal Smith might have in that Snuggi. He’s
no  Burt Lancaster  selling snake oil as Elmer Gantry. It’s a
subdued performance, lacking connection to the other characters
or the audience.  Whether that’s from a lack of stage experience or because
even he can’t believe anybody is buying Smith’s story is hard to
say. The only tension comes in a scene in which Smith tries to
reconcile with his reasonably skittish wife Ginger, played with
delicate power by  Amanda Peet . Ginger quickly brings out Smith’s
even scarier side.  The one-act play is written in blackout scenes (the minimal
sets are by Neil Patel, the utilitarian costumes by ESosa).
Between them, director Jo Bonney resorts to the wearisome cliche
of shining very bright lights in our eyes. Possibly to wake us
up.  Through Dec. 22 at the Lucille Lortel Theatre, 121
Christopher St., Greenwich Village. Information: +1-212-279-4200;
 http://www.mcctheater.org  Rating: (no stars)  ( Jeremy Gerard  is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Jeremy Gerard  in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 