-- Dynegy Shareholders Scheduled to Vote Today on Blackstone Offer
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2010-11-23T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/dynegy-shareholders-scheduled-to-vote-today-on-blackstone-offer.html
Dynegy Inc.  shareholders are
scheduled to vote today on a $604.5 million takeover offer by
 Blackstone Group LP  that’s opposed by the power producer’s
largest shareholders.  Dynegy, based in Houston, delayed the voting deadline to 5
p.m. New York time today after Blackstone raised its offer by 50
cents to $5 a share a week ago. The company said shareholders
needed more time to consider the higher price from the private
equity firm.  Billionaire investor  Carl Icahn  and hedge fund Seneca
Capital, Dynegy’s largest shareholders, weren’t swayed by the
revised offer and have maintained their opposition. Seneca has
said the power generator is worth more than $6 a share and may
be valued as high as $18 once a strengthening economy revives
prices for electricity from its plants. Dynegy’s board accepted
Blackstone’s first offer, $4.50 a share, after the stock closed
at an eight-year low of $2.78 in August.  Unless Blackstone increases its bid again, “it would be a
significant challenge for them to defend delaying further,”
said Kevin H. Douglas, a Nashville, Tennessee-based attorney at
Bass, Berry & Sims, who’s helped defend companies against
activist shareholders. Blackstone called $5 a share its “best
and final offer” on Nov. 16.  Blackstone’s revised offer values  Dynegy  at about $4.77
billion, including debt, and was made after the seller’s proxy
advisers warned the $4.50 share bid might fail, Dynegy said in a
filing. Dynegy  rose  3 cents to $5.14 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading yesterday.  Divided Opinions  As a condition of the higher offer, Dynegy’s board agreed
to pay Blackstone a $16.3 million breakup fee if shareholders
vote down the deal and Dynegy closes a takeover for more than
$4.50 a share within 18 months.  Investor-research firms have been divided in their opinions
of the Blackstone offer, with two advising shareholders to
accept the bid or risk being wiped out in bankruptcy, and two
advising shareholders to reject it, saying Dynegy can survive by
cutting costs and refinancing debt.  Dynegy was worth almost $19 billion before it
unsuccessfully tried to take over rival energy trader Enron
Corp. in 2001. Chief Executive Officer  Bruce Williamson  took
over in 2002, averting bankruptcy by shutting down trading
operations, selling pipelines, and focusing the company
exclusively on producing and selling power in the U.S.  Interest payments consumed about 12 percent of Dynegy’s
third-quarter sales, contributing to its  sixth quarterly loss  in
two years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 