-- Blackstone’s Dynegy Bid Scrapped, Other Offers Sought
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2010-11-23T21:45:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/dynegy-to-seek-bids-on-concern-blackstone-pact-faces-shareholder-rejection.html
Dynegy Inc. , the third-largest U.S.
independent power producer, agreed with  Blackstone Group LP  to
scrap a $604.5 million takeover because of  shareholder 
opposition. Dynegy will seek new bids and may sell assets, cut
costs and restructure debt to continue as a standalone company.  Blackstone’s offer to buy the power producer failed to get
majority approval during a shareholder vote today. The bid was
opposed by billionaire investor  Carl Icahn  and hedge fund Seneca
Capital, the two largest shareholders of Houston-based Dynegy,
who said the company was worth more.  “We will immediately engage interested parties, including
Seneca Capital and Icahn Associates, who may have an interest in
making an offer to acquire Dynegy,”  Bruce A. Williamson , chief
executive officer of Dynegy, said in a statement. Talks with
Seneca will include adding an independent board member, Dynegy
said. The hedge fund had proposed replacing two board members.  Dynegy also adopted a shareholders’ rights program that
would protect the company from a takeover that isn’t approved by
the board, according to a separate statement today.  Blackstone, the world’s largest private-equity firm, will
be eligible to receive a $16.3 million merger termination fee if
Dynegy is sold for more than $4.50 a share within 18 months,
said  David Byford , a spokesman for the power producer.  Dynegy  fell  14 cents, or 2.7 percent, to $5 a share at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Blackstone
fell 32 cents, or 2.4 percent, to $12.93.  42 Potential Buyers  Dynegy had contacted 42 potential buyers in pursuit of a
bid higher than Blackstone’s without success, according to a
Nov. 18  filing . A provision allowing Blackstone to match a
superior offer and an exclusive $1.36 billion agreement selling
some Dynegy plants to NRG Energy Inc. discouraged potential
bidders, Icahn said in a Nov. 16 statement.  Lisa Wolford, a spokeswoman for Seneca, had no comment.
 Susan Gordon , an Icahn spokeswoman, didn’t respond to a message
seeking comment.  Dynegy announced Blackstone’s initial $4.50-a-share offer
on Aug. 13, a 62 percent premium to the prior day’s closing
price. Responding to shareholder opposition, New York-based
Blackstone last week raised its offer by 50 cents, to $5 a
share. A day later, Dynegy extended the original voting period
by six days to let shareholders consider the revised bid.  “While we are disappointed by Seneca Capital’s and Carl
Icahn’s opposition to our ‘best and final’ proposal of $5 per
share, we appreciate the efforts made by Dynegy to communicate
the merits of our offer,”  David Foley , senior managing director
of Blackstone Group said in a statement.  $2 Billion Credit  Icahn, Dynegy’s largest shareholder, opposed the Blackstone
offer because he said it undervalues the company. He has offered
the company a $2 billion line of credit and said on Nov. 16 he
may be willing to bid for it.  Seneca, based in New York, has said Blackstone was scooping
up Dynegy on the cheap to profit by selling the plants once the
economy revives power demand. Seneca holds a 9.3 percent stake.  “The plan of Icahn and the Seneca group is to take this
thing, cut costs, and break apart the company,”  Charles Fishman , a Falls Church, Virginia-based analyst for Pritchard
Capital Partners LLC, said in an interview today. He rates the
shares “neutral” and owns none.  Dynegy’s “value is more than $5” a share, said Fishman.
The company may sell off its assets piecemeal if no new bidder
emerges, he said.  New Board Member  In a Nov. 11 statement, Seneca said it would seek to
nominate E.  Hunter Harrison , former chief executive officer of
Canadian National Railway Co. and  Jeff Hunter , co-founder and
chief financial officer of closely held US Power Generating Co.,
to the Dynegy board. It proposed looking for a new buyer,
cutting costs and restructuring debt.  Dynegy said today it will “engage” with Seneca on “the
immediate appointment of a qualified, independent candidate” to
the six-member board.  Dynegy had predicted its shares would plummet from
rejection of  Blackstone ’s offer, valued at $4.77 billion
including assumed  debt . The company has forecast negative cash
flow of $1.6 billion during the next five years to pay debt and
keep its power plants running.  The abandonment casts doubt on the agreement by NRG to buy
two Dynegy plants for $1.36 billion from Blackstone. NRG Chief
Executive Officer  David Crane  told investors Nov. 4 he wouldn’t
offer as much for the Dynegy plants a second time because the
outlook for power prices has fallen.  Lori Neuman , a spokeswoman for NRG, said the company had no
comment.  More Challenges  “Dynegy continues to face  challenges , many of which are
beyond its control, including low and declining commodity prices
and continued economic weakness,” Williamson said in a Nov. 8
statement. No higher offers for the company emerged during a
monthlong shopping period after the Blackstone bid was announced
in August.  Dynegy, worth almost $19 billion before it tried to swallow
Enron Corp. in 2001, closed at an eight-year low of $2.78 a
share the day before the Blackstone offer was announced.  NRG and Calpine Corp. are the two largest U.S. independent
power producers.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Greenhill & Co. are Dynegy’s
financial advisers in the search for other bids. Sullivan &
Cromwell LLP is legal counsel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
 Noah Buhayar  in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 