-- Tea Party Sells U.S. Short in Race to Bottom: Alexander Heffner
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   H e f f n e r
-- 2010-11-23T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/tea-party-sells-u-s-short-in-race-to-bottom-alexander-heffner.html
It’s morning in America, at least
for the Tea Party. And now a movement that has electrified the
country is poised to radically cut education when schools are
already in desperate straits.  When conservative legal scholar  Robert Bork  was nominated
to the U.S. Supreme Court, Senator  Ted Kennedy  said his America
would be a land of “back-alley abortions, segregated lunch
counters, and rogue police.”  The Tea Party’s America seems to embrace a comparable
vision: a nation of illiterate and uneducated youths, of empty
classrooms and laid-off teachers and counselors. Their recipe
for reform would seem to ensure that the U.S. will continue to
trail in the race to be the most-educated nation.  Education should be hands-off territory, for it is the most
powerful tool to spur American innovation and economic growth.  The U.S. isn’t moving fast enough to compete with India,
China and other emerging-market countries. Infrastructure and
Internet connectivity in America are crumbling wrecks compared
with the rest of the industrialized world.  While U.S. universities are still considered the world’s
best, surveys show American public education to be in dismal
condition, plagued with an increasing dropout rate, a dramatic
achievement gap in mathematics and science, and a ubiquitous
civic illiteracy.  Benchmark Deficiencies  According to  data collected  over the last decade by the
National Assessment of Educational Progress, a majority of
students aren’t proficient in reading, history or math at each
of the critical fourth- or eighth-grade benchmarks.  Meager teacher pay -- about $150 a week less than
comparable occupations, according to the  Economic Policy
Institute  -- explains these student deficiencies. Studies
consistently show that starting salaries for teachers in the
U.S. are considerably less than in other developed countries.  Schools shouldn’t pay teachers who aren’t first-rate. But,
as in any profession, healthy entry-level compensation is vital
for nurturing a talented workforce. It doesn’t help that less
than 5 percent of the federal budget is allocated to education.  And yet, on Nov. 2, many Americans voted for candidates who
plan to abolish the  Department of Education  and radically slash
federal and local school budgets to a point of no return.  Last Legs  Victorious candidates, such as Senator-Elect  Rand Paul  of
Kentucky, have been empowered to literally choke the life out of
the nation’s schools, threatening to diminish teacher pay and
technology in classrooms. During the campaign and in post-
election talk-show appearances, Paul, like many of his Tea Party
comrades, has advocated abolishing the Department of Education
and across-the-board spending cuts for schools.  In a campaign questionnaire, Paul rejected the need for any
federal education dollars: “I am against any federal funding or
control of education. Most teachers despise No Child Left
Behind. If you want to be rid of it, you must also oppose
federal funds!”  Moreover, critics of education spending argue that sizable
federal and state deficits demand such cuts, and this year’s
crop of elected economic conservatives is promising budget
reductions in every conceivable way.  At the same time, the Tea Party is ignoring teachers and
neglecting classrooms without computers and Internet access.
Elementary schools are on their last box of chalk and pencils.  Miriam Nightengale, the principal of the  High School for
Law, Advocacy and Community Justice  in New York, says she is
concerned about future cuts.  “We had to borrow money from the city to start the year in
order to keep teaching positions and we will have to repay the
debt either from this year’s funds, or from next year’s.”  Paper Rationing  Nightengale adds that it has gotten so bad that the school
is “rationing the amount of paper each teacher gets.”  “We don’t have the funds to replace computers as they die.
We are running on recovery money which will not be renewed next
year. How can we continue to offer our students a rich variety
of choices when we cannot fund our staff needs to support
them?”  In Newton, Massachusetts, Principal  Joel Stembridge  says
that his school, Newton South High, has lost dozens of teaching
positions over the last few years. In the past year, Stembridge
said, he decided not to cut teaching faculty positions, and
instead reduced his support staff.  “We really can’t do that again, so any further cuts would
be to classroom teachers, resulting in higher class sizes. If
additional funds were available, I would restore some of the
lost faculty positions from prior years.”  Oversized Classes  Nightengale’s and Stembridge’s schools of oversized classes
and understaffed faculty aren’t atypical.  In Wisconsin, where gubernatorial candidates competed to be
considered “cheapest administrator,” Bruce Dahmen, the
principal at Madison’s  James Madison Memorial High School , said
declining funding won’t make the cut.  “It is essential that our schools receive the resources
that are needed to meet the needs of all students,” he said.
“The high school education is the gateway to success.”  The education crisis is real, not imaginary.  Education Secretary  Arne Duncan  can’t provide the antidote
alone, but the agency’s  Race to the Top  competition, millions of
dollars in funding for new tech-based learning engagements, and
blueprints for future investments are building a foundation.  Candidates who would claim they want to restore economic
discipline, even at the expense of educating children, are now
in power. To ensure America’s greatness, it’s probably wiser to
listen to our teachers than to the Tea Party freshmen.  ( Alexander Heffner , an undergraduate student at Harvard
University, is director of the education and journalism
initiative ScoopSeminar.org. The opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Alexander Heffner  at  aheffner@fas.harvard.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  