-- Economy in U.S. Grew 2.5% in Third Quarter as Consumers Increased Spending
-- B y   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n
-- 2010-11-23T17:29:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/economy-in-u-s-grew-2-5-in-third-quarter-revised-from-2-.html
The U.S. economy grew more than
previously calculated in the third quarter, led by stronger
consumer spending and fueled by labor income gains that may
stoke demand into 2011.  The revised 2.5 percent increase in gross domestic product
compares with a 2 percent estimate issued last month and a 1.7
percent rise in the second quarter, figures from the Commerce
Department showed today in Washington. Consumer purchases rose
at the fastest pace since the last three months of 2006.  Employee wages in the six months through September were
revised up by about $59 billion, indicating Americans may ramp
up their spending heading into the holiday shopping season.
Along with gains in corporate investment in new equipment, the
figures show an evolving expansion led more by demand and less
by inventory restocking.  “You have a little firmer final sales -- that is the very
encouraging part of the report,” said  Michael Feroli , chief
U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York. “It makes
me a little more comfortable with the sustainability of the
recovery.”  Separate figures from the National Association of Realtors
showed the economy is not without its headwinds. Sales of
previously owned homes fell more than forecast in October as
foreclosure moratoriums and a lack of credit disrupted the U.S.
housing market.  Purchases decreased 2.2 percent to a  4.43 million  annual
rate from 4.53 million in September. Economists projected sales
would decline to a 4.48 million pace, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  Stocks Decline  Stocks fell for a second day after the home sales report
and after North Korea fired artillery shells at a South Korean
island. The  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index dropped 1.5 percent to
1,180.12 at 12:29 p.m. in New York. The yield on the 10-year
Treasury note, which moves inversely to prices, fell to 2.75
percent from 2.80 percent late yesterday.  Today’s third-quarter growth figures showed bigger gains in
exports, consumer spending and business investment in new
equipment than previously estimated.  Economists surveyed by Bloomberg projected the growth rate
would increase to 2.4 percent, according to the median of 78
forecasts. Estimates ranged from 2 percent to 2.9 percent.  Consumer spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of
the economy, increased at a 2.8 percent annual rate in the third
quarter, the Commerce Department’s figures showed. The gain
compares with a previously reported 2.6 percent rise and
reflected an increase in purchases of used automobiles.  Wages Revised Up  Today’s figures also showed that in the second quarter,
wages and salaries increased by a revised $97.4 billion from the
prior three months of 2010, up from the $51.1 billion initially
reported. The figures incorporate new, more comprehensive data
from the Labor Department. Third-quarter wages increased by
$51.4 billion, more than the $38.4 billion initially reported.  At the same time, corporate profits rose 2.8 percent after
a 3 percent increase the second quarter, today’s report showed.
Earnings were up 28 percent from the same time last year.  “Households are getting a little bigger share of the
pie,” Feroli said. “For a more balanced recovery, it’s good to
see households are getting a little more.”  Business spending on new equipment and software advanced at
a 16.8 percent pace last quarter, compared with an initial
estimate of 12 percent, today’s GDP report showed.  ‘Slow, Steady’  “While we’re not expecting a rapid improvement in the
economic environment, we do assume a slow, steady recovery
throughout the year” in 2011,  Ronald Sargent , chief executive
officer of Staples Inc., said on a Nov. 18 teleconference to
discuss earnings for the world’s largest office-supply retailer.
“Core office supplies and computers and accessories were strong
during the third quarter.”  Federal Reserve policy makers are concerned growth may not
be strong enough to bring down an  unemployment rate  that held at
9.6 percent last month.  Joblessness is currently “high and, given the slow pace of
economic growth, likely to remain so for some time,” Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in a speech in Frankfurt on Nov.
19. Bernanke defended the additional $600 billion in monetary
stimulus the Fed announced earlier this month.  The Fed’s preferred price gauge, which is tied to consumer
spending and strips out food and energy costs, climbed at an
unrevised 0.8 percent annual pace in the third quarter, down
from a 1 percent increase the prior quarter. The central bank’s
longer-term projection is a range of 1.7 percent to 2 percent.  Black Friday  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. , the world’s largest retailer, said
yesterday that it will match prices listed in competitors’ ads
on Black Friday, the day after Thanksgiving. Savings will begin
with Thanksgiving Day online specials on Nov. 25 and will run
through Nov. 27, with deals on electronics, home items and
apparel.  Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart is offering free
shipping to homes on almost 60,000 holiday items through its
website as it vies for budget-conscious shoppers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington at 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  