-- China Fund Says Slowdown May End in the Second Quarter, Supporting Stocks
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-23T08:24:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/economic-growth-in-china-may-bottom-out-in-second-quarter-china-fund-says.html
A slowdown in China’s economic
growth may end in the second quarter, supporting stocks, said
 Luo Jianhui , a fund manager at China International Fund
Management Co.  Luo said at a briefing in Shanghai today that he may buy
shares of so-called cyclical companies, whose earnings are
dependent on the economy, when China’s growth picks up. He
didn’t name any specific stocks.  China International Fund
Management , 49 percent owned by JPMorgan Asset Management (UK)
Ltd., has 55 billion yuan ($8.28 billion) of assets under
management, according to its website.  China’s benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index  has tumbled 10
percent since reaching a seven-month high on Nov. 8 on
speculation the central bank will take more steps to tame
inflation that grew last month at the fastest pace in two years.
The gauge slumped 1.9 percent at the 3 p.m. close in Shanghai.  “The market will seek support at a lower level in the
short term as we are in the midst of very severe tightening,”
Luo said. He didn’t give any specific index forecasts. “China’s
economy may bottom out in the second quarter next year and that
will support the stock market fundamentally.”  Luo’s  China International Double Core Balance Equity Fund 
had returned 0.1 percent through Nov. 17 this year, compared
with a more than 13 percent decline by the Shanghai Composite in
the period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Interest Rates  The central bank on Nov. 19 ordered banks to set aside
larger reserves for the second time in two weeks. The latest
move to contain excess liquidity came after Premier  Wen Jiabao 
held a Cabinet meeting earlier last week and called for a
crackdown on speculation in agricultural goods and ordered price
caps on “daily necessities” if needed.  Consumer prices rose 4.4 percent in October from a year
earlier. Standard Chartered Plc economists anticipate the
consumer price index will rise by an average of 5.5 percent next
year, with a peak gain of 6.3 percent in June.  China’s central bank announced an interest-rate increase on
Oct. 19, the first since 2007, to help quell rising prices. The
People’s Bank of China will raise the benchmark one-year deposit
and lending rates by year-end, from the current levels of 5.56
percent and 2.5 percent, according to a Bloomberg News survey of
nine economists last week.  November consumer prices “could be lower” than estimated,
China International’s Luo said. “We already have the most
severe tightening measures in place and it’s the worst time for
investors’ expectations. Expectations may improve in December.”  China’s  economy  expanded 9.6 percent in the third quarter
from a year before, down from 10.3 percent in the previous three
months and 11.9 percent in January to March.  -- Zhang Shidong . Editors:  Darren Boey ,  Richard Frost   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3040 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  