-- Petrobras, Noble Fail to Reach Ecuador Oil, Gas Deals
-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 2010-11-24T13:05:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/ecuador-fails-to-reach-new-oil-service-accords-with-petrobras.html
(Corrects fifth paragraph of story published Nov. 23 to say
Noble’s concession to be seized, not Repsol’s.)  Petroleo Brasileiro SA  and  Noble
Energy Inc. ’s oil and natural-gas contracts in Ecuador will be
canceled after the companies failed to reach new service accords
with the South American nation’s government.  Spain’s Repsol YPF SA and Italy’s Eni SpA were among the
companies that agreed terms outlined in regulations passed
earlier this year, Non-Renewable Natural Resources Minister
 Wilson Pastor  said today in Quito. Companies had until midnight
to reach agreements allowing “reasonable profits,” he said.  Ecuador, which in July approved a revised oil law that
gives the government greater control over crude reserves, sought
to boost revenue from natural resources by forcing oil companies
to switch to service contracts from output-sharing accords.
President  Rafael Correa  said in October the negotiations had
lowered output as companies delayed investments as they waited
to sign the new deals.  “This renegotiation is absolutely beneficial for the
state,” Pastor told reporters. “The only way companies have to
increase profit is to reduce production costs.”  PetroEcuador, the South American country’s state-owned oil
company, will seize the concessions operated by Petrobras and
Noble, Pastor said. The government will pay a “just price” for
the companies’ assets, he said.  Production May Drop  Changes in the contracts may lead to further production
declines because companies have few incentives to drill for new
crude reserves, Walter Spurrier, director of Guayaquil-based
think tank Grupo Spurrier, said today in a telephone interview.  “It’s heads I win, tails you lose” for oil companies,
Spurrier said. “The problem is that Ecuador needs to discover
new reserves and this law isn’t doing that.”  Under the new contracts, the government will pay oil
companies a fixed fee for each barrel of oil produced, with any
additional profits from price increases going to the state,
Pastor said. Companies assume 100 percent of exploration risk,
he said.  The contracts are “certainly very favorable for the nation
and reasonable for the company,” Pastor said.  Ecuador’s Finance Ministry forecasts oil output will climb
1.3 percent to 181 million barrels in 2011, according to data on
the ministry’s website published before today’s announcement.
Private companies account for about 34 percent of the nation’s
production, according to data on the Non-Renewable Natural
Resources Ministry’s  website .  Chinese Contracts  Output of Ecuadorean oil, which trades at a discount to
 West Texas Intermediate  crude, has tumbled 7 percent to 465,000
barrels a day as of Oct. 31 from a 2008 high of 500,000 barrels
a day, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. Production has
fallen 6.1 percent since Correa took power in January 2007,
according to central bank data.  Ecuador also signed new contracts today with China’s Andes
Petroleum Ecuador Ltd. and PetroOriental S.A., both units of
state-owned  China National Petroleum Corp.  and  China Petroleum &
Chemical Corp .  Andes, which will invest a total of $424 million to expand
production and increase exploration at its fields, may boost its
output in Ecuador to 5,000 barrels a day, according to a report
distributed after the event. The government also changed the
size of PetroOriental’s concession to allow it to seek new crude
reserves, the report said.  PetroOriental operates the Block 14 and Block 17 oil fields
in Ecuador’s northeastern Amazon region, while Andes controls
the Tarapoa field near the border with Colombia.  Repsol, the largest private producer in the country, has
promised to invest $282 million in its Block 16 and Bogui
Capiron oil fields and may boost output to 5,000 barrels a day,
Pastor said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nathan Gill  in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  