-- Lehman Brokerage Claims $7 Billion From Barclays
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2010-11-24T00:46:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/lehman-s-brokerage-trustee-claims-7-billion-in-assets-from-barclays.html
The trustee for  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. ’s brokerage asked a judge to disallow what he
called the wrongful transfer of $7 billion of assets to Barclays
Plc after it bought the defunct investment bank’s brokerage in
the 2008 financial crisis.  The request was filed yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
New York by trustee  James Giddens . The money includes $1.3
billion of assets claimed by Barclays. A transfer of those funds
to the bank may violate securities laws, the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission said.  Barclays, based in London, is seeking $3 billion of the
assets, saying Giddens promised to shift them after Lehman filed
the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history.  “Transferring these additional assets to Barclays would
materially and adversely affect the estate and deprive the
trustee of customer property needed to satisfy the claims of
those customers whom Barclays rejected,” Giddens said in the
filing.  The assets were fought over in more than 30 days of court
testimony at a nonjury trial that ended last month, with Lehman
demanding $11 billion or more of Barclays’ allegedly undisclosed
gains on the purchase. Barclays, Lehman and the trustee made
their last efforts in yesterday’s filings to sway Judge  James Peck , who may rule on the case in January or February, said
lawyers in the case.  Sole Bidder  Peck must decide whether to alter a deal sealed in a week
of financial turmoil or let all or part of it stand.  Barclays 
was the sole bidder for Lehman’s brokerage, taking 10,000
employees and giving 72,000 customers access to $40 billion in
assets frozen in the bankruptcy, the bank has said.  There may be a fight brewing between Lehman and the
trustee, who are claiming some of the same assets from Barclays,
according to Lehman’s court filings.  “At this stage it is not necessary for the court to
allocate any recovery” to either Lehman or the trustee, Lehman
said. “Any such allocation should be the product of further
proceedings.”  Trustee spokesman Kent Jarrell said, “We decline to
speculate on what might or might not happen.”  Barclays’ lawyer  David Boies  asked Peck to dismiss the
lawsuits, saying federal law bars the judge from revising the
sale contract.  ‘Better Alternative’  Lehman and the trustee “failed to present any evidence at
trial that could support a finding that there was any better
alternative for the Lehman estates and creditors than the sale
transaction,” Boies said in a filing yesterday.  Peck could leave the sale intact while telling Barclays to
return billions of dollars in assets that it took without
telling him, Lehman said.  The SEC said in its filing that two transfers would
potentially violate securities law. They are $769 million in
securities held in the Lehman Brothers Inc. brokerage’s reserve
bank account, and $507 million in assets listed as a debit item
in the brokerage’s customer reserve.  The transfers would violate securities law if they
increased the deficiency in the accounts, “and LBI would not
have sufficient funds to satisfy all claims of the remaining
customers,” the SEC said.  Sale Document  Barclays says the assets were allocated to it in a sale
document signed by all parties to the transaction in the 2008
financial crisis. Barclays still claims the assets, which were
never delivered.  Any money Peck awards Lehman would help its creditors, who
stand to get on average 15.8 cents on the dollar, and hurt
shareholders of Barclays, which reported net income of 2.4
billion pounds ($3.8 billion) in the first half.  Kimberly Macleod , a Lehman spokeswoman, and  Michael O’Looney , a Barclays spokesman, declined to comment on the SEC
filing.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Linda Sandler  in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 