-- Meinl Bank Sues Atrium's Management, Holders Gazit, Citi for $1.6 Billion
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l   a n d   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2010-11-23T15:00:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/meinl-sues-atrium-holders-gazit-citi-for-1-6-billion-update1-.html
Meinl Bank AG, the Austrian lender
controlled by the Meinl family, sued management and key
shareholders of  Atrium European Real Estate Ltd.  in a dispute
over the property developer formerly associated with the bank.  Meinl Bank filed the lawsuit, which is seeking more than
1.2 billion euros ($1.6 billion), as a so-called derivative
lawsuit on behalf of Atrium, Meinl Chief Executive Officer  Peter Weinzierl  said in Vienna today. The suit says Atrium management
and shareholders  Gazit-Globe Ltd . and  Citigroup Inc .’s Citi
Property Investors harmed other investors when they canceled a
300 million-euro share issue in 2009 and prematurely converted a
bond into Atrium shares.  “Funds were moved from Atrium to Citi and Gazit in a way
that can’t be justified,” Weinzierl said.  Citigroup  and Israeli property developer  Gazit-Globe took 
control of what was then Meinl European Land in 2008 and renamed
it Atrium after Meinl European Land was investigated for using
1.8 billion euros to buy back shares without telling investors
in advance. Family head  Julius Meinl  V was arrested last year
over the allegations, and was released after posting 100 million
euros bail.  Atrium in August sued  Julius Meinl , Meinl Bank and eight
other people and companies for 2.1 billion euros in the U.K..
Atrium claimed they breached their fiduciary duties to the
company.  ‘Misguided Suit’  Meinl’s suit is “misguided and without merit,” Atrium
said in a statement. The company said it was confident that its
own claims against Meinl are “in no way adversely affected by
these latest actions of Meinl Bank.”  Gazit said in a statement it hasn’t received a copy of the
lawsuit. Citigroup spokesman Jeffrey French in London declined
to comment when contacted by Bloomberg News.  Meinl’s lawsuit is focused on measures by Gazit and Citi
that are all publicly known, said Wood & Co. analyst  Igor Muller 
on the phone from Prague. “It is important to remember that the
company was in a very bad shape when Gazit took over and those
were important steps to save the company,” Muller said. He has
a “Buy” rating on Atrium’s stock.  Weinzierl said Meinl started the lawsuit only in reaction
to Atrium’s complaint in August. “We would have been ready to
put the story to rest and let other shareholders pursue it if we
hadn’t been attacked by Atrium,” he said.  Derivative lawsuits such as that brought by Meinl are filed
by shareholders on behalf of a company to recover money lost
because of executives’ or other shareholders’ allegedly improper
activities. Meinl currently holds less than  1 percent  of Atrium,
Weinzierl said. The lawsuit was filed in Jersey, the self-
governing island in the English channel, where Atrium is
registered, Meinl said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Boris Groendahl  in Vienna 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net ;
 Zoe Schneeweiss  in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  