-- Telefonica O2 Czech Is Best Telco in Region, UBS Says
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2010-11-23T16:17:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/telefonica-o2-czech-is-region-s-best-telecom-investment-ubs-analyst-says.html
Telefonica O2 Czech Republic AS was
named the most attractive telecommunications stock in emerging
 Europe  by  UBS AG (UBSN) , which cited its “cheap” valuation after a
recent selloff and an expected “high” dividend payout.  The country’s largest phone operator, based in  Prague , was
raised to “buy” from “neutral” and had its price  estimate 
lifted to 445 koruna from 420 koruna at the Swiss bank, analyst
Alex Wright in  London  wrote in a report to clients dated today.  The unit of Spain’s  Telefonica SA (TEF)  declined 1.3 percent to
369.9 koruna today in Prague, its lowest close since February
2009. Third-quarter profit reported on Nov. 12 beat analysts’
estimates, prompting optimism the company will increase its
dividend or maintain the existing payout for up to three years.  “Recent share weakness, confidence in a continued high
dividend payout, and a benign macro environment in the  Czech
Republic ” are the main reasons for the upgrade, Wright wrote.
“It represents a good investment and is our most preferred
stock amongst the central and east European telcos.”  Telefonica O2’s  price-earnings  multiple fell to an all-time
low of 9.1 today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. UBS
expects the company will maintain its 40 koruna payout next
year, offering a 10.5 percent dividend yield. This compares with
the industry average of 8.7 percent, according to the report.  ‘Key Positive’  Net income rose an annual 90 percent to 6.01 billion koruna
($326 million) in the three months ended Sept. 30, helped by a
one-time gain after the operator re-evaluated an impairment loss
on its landline business. The median estimate of nine analysts
in a Bloomberg survey was for a profit of 2.6 billion koruna.  The impairment-loss reversal has boosted 2010 earnings per
share by 10.6 koruna, according to the UBS report.  “This emphasizes the company’s commitment to fully paying
out  cash flow  as dividends and gives us confidence in our 40
koruna per share dividend estimate going forward,” Wright said.
“Low leverage and market-friendly government policies” in the
Czech Republic are “a key positive,” according to Wright.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  