-- Emerging-Market Stocks Snap Three-Day Advance on Ireland, China Concerns
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2010-11-23T09:06:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/emerging-market-stocks-snap-three-day-rally-on-fears-about-european-debts.html
Emerging-market stocks fell the most
in more than three months while currencies declined as North and
South Korea exchanged artillery fire and investors speculated a
bailout for Ireland will fail to stem Europe’s debt crisis.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  dropped 1.7 percent to
1,094.28 as of 4:45 p.m. in Taipei, the most since Aug. 11 and
halting a three-day, 1.8 percent advance. China’s  Shanghai
Composite Index  retreated 1.9 percent, while the Bombay Stock
Exchange Sensitive Index slid 2 percent in India. South Korea’s
 Kospi Index  closed 0.8 percent lower at 3 p.m. local time, as
first reports of the military skirmish emerged.  Hyundai Motor Co. , which surpassed Toyota Motor Corp. as
the largest Asian carmaker in Europe this year, dropped to the
lowest in more than three weeks in Seoul, while the won declined
1 percent.  Jiangxi Copper Co.  and PetroChina Co. led losses in
China after the People’s Daily newspaper said the government
must intervene in prices where necessary.  “If this escalates into a real war, of course it will
start to affect the stocks, first with the resources and
commodities,”  Monika Yang , who helps oversee $2 billion at
Hamon Asset Management Ltd. in Hong Kong, said by phone. “It
would make the entire region very unstable.”  South Korea scrambled fighter jets and returned fire after
North Korea lobbed dozens of shells into its waters and an
island, injuring 14 soldiers, according to the government and
YTN reports. North Korea fired “several” shells, South Korea’s
Joint Chiefs of Staff said in a statement on its website.  Irish Elections  Irish Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  said his government will
resign after passing the country’s budget, responding to calls
from the  Green Party  for January elections amid voter discontent
at his handling of the crisis.  Moody’s Investors Service said the bailout, which Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. estimates may total 95 billion euros ($129
billion), may increase Ireland’s debt burden and pose a “credit
negative” for the country, the second euro nation to need a
rescue as the cost of saving the Irish banks made it vulnerable
to a rerun of the Greek debt crisis that destabilized the
currency.  “There is nervousness,” said Apurva Shah, head of
research at Prabhudas Lilladher Pvt. in Mumbai. “Over the next
one or two months we will see such corrections due to the global
concerns.”  Hyundai Motor, South Korea’s biggest automaker, declined
3.1 percent and  Kia Motors Corp. , the No. 2, sank 1.6 percent.
HTC Corp., the Taiwanese handset maker that gets about 32
percent of sales from Europe, slipped 1.5 percent.  China’s Index  The  Shanghai Composite , which tracks the bigger of China’s
stock exchanges, dropped to its lowest close since Oct. 11. The
gauge has lost more than 10 percent since reaching an almost
seven-month high on Nov. 8 as investors speculated the
government will raise interest rates and impose price controls
to slow inflation.  China should designate more goods as important commodities
for which the government needs to create reserves, the People’s
Daily said. The quantity of reserves for important commodities
should also be increased, the editorial said. China should also
increase the supply of grain and cooking oil released from state
reserves, the editorial said.  “The government is serious about tackling inflation which
can also affect social stability,” said  Bin Hu , chief executive
officer of BNY Mellon Western Fund Management Co. in Shanghai.
“They may take more measures including raising interest rates
and allowing the yuan to strengthen.”  Reserve Requirements  China’s benchmark money-market rate rose to the highest
level in almost seven weeks on speculation policy makers will
lift borrowing costs after raising banks’ reserve requirements
last week to tame inflation.  Jiangxi Copper, China’s top producer of the metal, fell 5.3
percent. PetroChina, the nation’s biggest oil producer, slid 2.9
percent, the  biggest contributor  to losses on the Shanghai
Composite.  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.  fell 1.1 percent. The
nation’s largest banks are close to reaching annual lending
quotas and plan to stop expanding their loan books to avoid
exceeding the limits, according to four people with knowledge of
the matter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Taipei at   Wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  