-- Emerging-Market Stocks Tumble Most in Five Months After Korean Conflict
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2010-11-23T16:05:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/emerging-market-stocks-tumble-most-in-five-months-after-korean-conflict.html
Emerging-market stocks headed for
the biggest drop in five months as North and South Korea
exchanged artillery fire and investors speculated a bailout for
Ireland will fail to stem Europe’s debt crisis.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  dropped 2.4 percent to
1,086.47 at 10:51 a.m. New York time, poised for the biggest
retreat since June 29 and halting a three-day, 1.8 percent
advance. China’s  Shanghai Composite Index  slid 1.9 percent and
Turkey’s  ISE National 100  stock index fell 2.3 percent. South
Korea’s  Kospi Index  closed 0.8 percent lower at 3 p.m. local
time, as the first reports of the military skirmish emerged.  One-month non-deliverable contracts for Korean won forwards
fell as much as 4.2 percent and were 2.9 percent down at 1,164
per dollar.  “If this escalates into a real war, of course it will
start to affect the stocks, first with the resources and
commodities,”  Monika Yang , who helps oversee $2 billion at
Hamon Asset Management Ltd. in Hong Kong, said by phone. “It
would make the entire region very unstable.”  South Korea scrambled fighter jets and returned fire after
North Korea lobbed dozens of shells at Yeonpyeong island. North
Korea fired “several” shells, South Korea’s Joint Chiefs of
Staff said in a statement on its website.  Russia’s  Micex  fell 1 percent.  OAO Novatek , Russia’s
second-biggest natural gas producer, dropped 1.8 percent, and
the country’s biggest mining company, OAO  Norilsk Nickel ,
slumped 0.9 percent.  Brazil’s  Bovespa  stock index dropped 2 percent, heading for
the biggest two-day drop since June.  MRV Engenharia e
Participacoes SA  and  PDG Realty SA Empreendimentos &
Participacoes  led a tumble for homebuilders, falling at least
4.5 percent after mid-month consumer prices rose more than
expected.  Won Buying Opportunity  Oil lost 1 percent to $80.93 a barrel in New York. Copper
and nickel prices both retreated in London trading.  The ruble depreciated 0.7 percent to 31.3582 per dollar.  Any dip in the won against the dollar over the next “few
days” represents a buying opportunity, said  Brian Jackson ,
emerging-markets strategist at RBC Capital Markets in Hong Kong.  “This incident does not change our overall positive
medium-term view” of the won, Jackson wrote in an e-mailed
report, “a view that always incorporates the possibility of
tensions with the North Korean regime, but which sees the chance
of an escalation into serious military conflict as relatively
small.”  Hungary’s  BUX stock index  slid 1.5 percent as concerns over
Ireland’s debt crisis also contributed to fears global growth
may suffer.  Irish Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  said his government will
resign after passing the country’s budget, responding to calls
from the  Green Party  for January elections amid voter discontent
at his handling of the crisis.  ‘Credit Negative’  Moody’s Investors Service said the bailout, which Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. estimates may total 95 billion euros ($127.6
billion), may increase Ireland’s debt burden and pose a “credit
negative” for the country. Ireland is the second euro nation to
need a rescue as the cost of saving the country’s banks made it
vulnerable to a rerun of the Greek debt crisis that destabilized
the euro.  Lowest Close  The  Shanghai Composite , which tracks the bigger of China’s
stock exchanges, dropped to its lowest close since Oct. 11. The
gauge has lost more than 10 percent since reaching an almost
seven-month high on Nov. 8 as investors speculated the
government will raise interest rates and impose price controls
to slow inflation.  China should designate more goods as important commodities
for which the government needs to create reserves, the People’s
Daily said. The quantity of reserves for important commodities
should also be increased, the editorial said. China should also
increase the supply of grain and cooking oil released from state
reserves, the editorial said.  The difference between the return investors demand from
emerging-market debt and U.S. Treasury bonds widened 6 basis
points to 2.58 percentage points, according to the  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. EMBI+ index.   To contact the reporters on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Taipei at   Wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Webb  in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  