-- Ten People Detained in Anti-Terror Sweep in Germany, Netherlands, Belgium
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2010-11-23T17:59:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/ten-people-detained-in-anti-terror-sweep-in-germany-netherlands-belgium.html
Ten suspects were detained in
Belgium, the Netherlands and Germany following an investigation
of a possible terror attack in Belgium by an international group
of jihad fighters, prosecutors said.  The detainees have Belgian, Dutch, Moroccan and Russian
nationalities and will appear before an investigating judge
later today, the Belgian federal prosecutor’s office said in a
statement. The suspected terror group was predominantly based in
the Belgian city of Antwerp, the prosecutors said.  “There was not yet a specific target for the plot,”
according to the statement. “Another part of the investigation
focused on recruiters, candidate jihad fighters and the funding
of a Chechen terror organization called the Caucasian Emirate.”  German authorities last week announced increased security
at airports, railway stations and closed the glass dome atop
Berlin’s Reichstag to visitors after receiving “concrete
indications” that Islamist extremists planned to stage an
attack toward the end of this month. Denmark said today it also
obtained additional “indications” about a possible terror
attack.  The Belgian probe led by investigating judge Philippe Van
Linthout began at the end of last year and resulted in earlier
detentions in Spain, Morocco and Saudi Arabia, the prosecutor’s
office said. Three of the suspects were held in the Netherlands,
according to the national prosecutor in Amsterdam. One suspect
was detained in Germany, Deutsche Press-Agentur reported, citing
local police.  Terrorist Recruitment  “There’s no link between this probe and the German terror
threat,” said  Lieve Pellens , a spokeswoman for the Belgian
federal prosecutor’s office.  As part of an unrelated investigation into terrorist
recruitment and funding, police searched 17 premises in Brussels
linked to the Al Sabil Islamic center in the Belgian capital,
public broadcaster VRT reported on its website. Police
questioned “10 to 20” people following the dawn raids,
according to VRT.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Martens  in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  