-- Hermitage Woos Eli Broad, Loses Hirst Skull, Seeks Postwar Art
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2010-11-23T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/hermitage-courts-eli-broad-loses-hirst-skull-pursues-postwar-art-gifts.html
Mikhail Piotrovsky , director of
Russia’s State Hermitage  Museum , came through New York recently
looking for money and art.  Occupying a former royal palace in St. Petersburg, the
Hermitage boasts 24 Rembrandts and 37 Matisses among its 2.9
million artworks. Yet postwar and contemporary art is
conspicuously missing.  “We don’t have our own collection, so we are showing works
from other museums and private collections,” said Piotrovsky.
“We have very little money to buy contemporary art.”  So he met with art dealer  Larry Gagosian  and billionaire
collector  Eli Broad , checked up on art loans to the Metropolitan
Museum of Art, and greeted about 120 guests at a dinner at
Christie’s auction house, aiming to raise $200,000 for his
museum.  He was focused on bringing 20th- and 21st-century art into
the Hermitage. As the museum gears up to celebrate its 250th
anniversary in 2014, it is completing the restoration of a wing
that will house contemporary art.  “It doesn’t have anything American from World War II
onwards,” said Chauncie Rodzianko, a board member of the
Hermitage Museum Foundation. “I don’t mean that they only have
100 pieces, I mean, they have nothing.”  The Christie’s dinner was part of the effort to attract
gifts and long-term loans from American collectors. Some women
arrived in Uzbek and Asian robes. Guests sipped champagne and
munched blinis and risotto puffs.  Cy Twombly  In recent years, the Hermitage has mounted exhibitions of
works by  Cy Twombly , late de Kooning and pieces from the Saatchi
collection. While in New York, Piotrovsky met with artist Anselm
Kiefer and people representing the estate of  Sol LeWitt  to
discuss possible projects. The museum is planning to show some
of Broad’s collection, Piotrovsky said.  One contemporary-art exhibition that fell through in recent
years was to feature  Damien Hirst ’s $100 million diamond-
encrusted skull.  “We had to provide so much security, as if we were showing
the golden mask of Tutankhamun,” said Piotrovsky. “It turned
out to be too expensive for us.”  While it ended 2009 with a $2.1 million surplus, the museum
relies heavily on federal funds, which accounted for 82 percent
of the $100 million that the museum refers to as revenue in a
financial statement for 2009. Russian corporations and
individuals, including billionaire  Vladimir Potanin , donated
between $2 million and $5 million, Piotrovsky said.  “It’s a lot for Russia, where philanthropy is disliked and
even hated,” said Piotrovsky.  One way the Hermitage can’t raise money is by selling any
of its art. The museum still rues the time in the early 1930s
when the cash-strapped Soviet government sold many of its
masterpieces to Western museums.  “The 21 best works in the National Gallery used to be the
21 best Hermitage pieces,” said Piotrovsky about the
Washington, D.C. museum. “It’s a tragic story.”  To contact the reporter of this story:
 Katya Kazakina  in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 