-- Estonian Support for Euro Rises to Record, Even as Ireland Seeks Bailout
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2010-11-23T12:23:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/estonian-support-for-euro-rises-to-record-even-as-ireland-seeks-bailout.html
Estonian public support for the euro
rose to a record this month as a government publicity campaign
to prepare for adopting the single currency helped blunt concern
about Ireland decision to seek an international bailout.  Fifty-four percent of those polled backed swapping the
kroon for the euro on Jan. 1, with 36 percent opposing the move 
and 10 percent undecided, according to  a survey  of 502 people 
conducted Nov. 8-15 by local pollster Faktum&Ariko. Support for
the change stood at 49 percent last month.  The Finance Ministry and European Commission this month
sent a leaflet with details on the currency changeover and an
exchange-rate calculator to all 561,000 Estonian households. The
calculator was the main news on euro entry in the past month,
Kalev Petti, head of research at Faktum, said today at a news
conference in Tallinn.  “Concrete steps on conversion to the euro become more
noticeable in everyday life, forcing people to get used to it
and thereby boosting support for the ‘‘inevitable,’’ he said.  Finance Minister  Jurgen Ligi  said today he saw no risk of
contagion for other euro-area nations as Ireland’s plan to seek
European Union rescue funds threatens to escalate the region’s
sovereign debt crisis.  ‘‘Ireland is totally different from Greece,” Ligi said
during a news conference in Tallinn. “Its problems are mainly
banking related, while its economy is still very much
competitive.”  2007 Record  Euro entry was backed by 51 percent of Estonians surveyed
in September and 52 percent in July, when the Finance Ministry
started commissioning the monthly Faktum polls, which have a
margin of error of 4 percentage points. Support for the euro
reached a record 52 percent in December 2007 before dropping to
47 percent last December, according to earlier polls
commissioned by the Government Office.  The ministry said in July it wanted to boost public support
for the euro to 65 percent. That goal is “unlikely” to be met,
Tea Varrak, chancellor of the Finance Ministry, said this month.
She cited “understandable” rise in nostalgia toward the kroon,
adopted in 1992, as the main reason.  Support for the euro among Estonia’s Russian-speaking
minority rose to 39 percent from 33 percent last month, the
Faktum poll showed. The group makes up about 30 percent of
Estonia’s 1.3 million inhabitants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ott Ummelas  in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  