-- Euro Weakens for Second Day, Asian Stocks Decline on Ireland Debt Concerns
-- B y   S h i y i n   C h e n   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 2010-11-23T06:12:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/euro-weakens-for-second-day-asia-stocks-decline-on-ireland-debt-concerns.html
The euro fell for a second day as
Asian stocks and commodities dropped amid speculation that a
bailout for Ireland will fail to stem Europe’s debt crisis and
that China will intensify efforts to tame inflation.  The single currency weakened versus 12 of its 16 major
counterparts and fell 0.4 percent to $1.3574 as of 2 p.m. in
Hong Kong. The  MSCI Asia-Pacific excluding Japan Index  sank 1.5
percent to 458.22, set for its biggest decline since Nov. 12,
while the  S&P GSCI Index  of commodities slipped for a third day.
Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index sank 0.4 percent.
Japan’s markets are closed for a holiday.  Irish bonds pared gains while default swaps on its debt
surged yesterday after Moody’s said a “multi-notch” downgrade
to Ireland’s Aa2 credit rating is “most likely” and as Prime
Minister  Brian Cowen  called elections as support for his
government unraveled. In China, the benchmark  Shanghai index 
fell to its lowest level in six weeks, fueled by concern policy
makers will add to last week’s increase of bank reserve ratios.  There’s concern “Ireland’s troubles could spill over into
other smaller European Union countries, while the collapse of
the government just reinforces the political realities,” said
 Stephen Halmarick , Sydney-based head of investment markets
research at Colonial First State Global Asset Management, which
oversees $135 billion. “Markets are also worried that China’s
attempts to slow the economy and control inflation could weigh
on commodity demand.”  The euro weakened for a second day against the yen, sliding
0.1 percent to 113.40. The dollar traded at 83.41 yen from 83.34
yen in New York yesterday. Australia’s dollar declined for a
third day against the Japanese currency, while South Korea’s won
dropped 0.7 percent to 1,133.10 per dollar as Ireland’s debt
crisis eroded demand for higher-yielding assets.  Elections, Budget  Ireland’s Green Party called for a January election, saying
the prime minister “misled” voters about the need for aid.
Cowen plans to announce the government’s four-year budget plan
this week and said an agreement with the EU and the IMF will
come “in the next few weeks.”  “The risk to markets is that no one knows if the new
government next year will stick to the budget that will be
announced later this year,” said  Greg Gibbs , a currency
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in Sydney.
“Political uncertainty has caused the positive response out of
the package to be short-lived. The euro is struggling.”  The Irish aid plan, which Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
estimates may total 95 billion euros ($130 billion), failed to
assuage concern that the Europpean debt crisis may spread.
Default swaps on Portugal jumped 40.8 basis points to 457.6 and
contracts on Greece climbed 37 basis points to 1,006.4 yesterday,
according to data provider CMA.  Bond Risk  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of swaps on 50 investment-
grade borrowers outside Japan rose 2.5 basis points to 103.5 in
Hong Kong today, Credit Agricole CIB prices show. The Markit
iTraxx Australia index climbed 2 basis points to 106, according
to Nomura Holdings Inc.  Both risk benchmarks are headed for their biggest increases
since Nov. 16, according to CMA in New York.  South Korea’s Kospi index fell 0.8 percent as  Hyundai Motor
Co. , which sells vehicles in Europe, dropped 3.1 percent. Hong
Kong’s Hang Seng Index lost 1.8 percent and China’s  Shanghai
Composite Index  declined 2.7 percent, after the People’s Daily
newspaper said that the government must “temporarily”
intervene to control prices where necessary.  PetroChina Co. , the nation’s largest oil producer, sank 3.4
percent in Shanghai while Jiangxi Copper Co. dropped 6.4 percent.
 BHP Billiton Ltd. , the world’s biggest mining company, fell 1.7
percent in Sydney.  Metals, Oil  The  S&P GSCI Index  of commodities fell 0.6 percent,
extending a two-day, 1.2 percent drop. Copper and zinc also
retreated for a third day in London, declining as much as 1.6
percent and 1.8 percent, respectively. Crude oil slumped 0.8
percent to $81.12 a barrel in New York after earlier gaining as
much as 0.4 percent.  China’s benchmark money-market rate rose to the highest
level in almost seven weeks on speculation policy makers will
lift borrowing costs after raising banks’ reserve requirements
last week to tame inflation. The  seven-day repurchase rate ,
which measures lending costs between banks, advanced by 2 basis
points to 2.22 percent, the highest since Oct. 8, according to
the National Interbank Funding Center.  FBI Raids  The S&P 500 declined 0.2 percent yesterday after raids on
three investment firms by the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
 Hewlett-Packard Co.  rose 2.7 percent in afterhours trading after
the world’s largest computer maker forecast first-quarter profit
that exceeded analysts’ estimates.  Data due today may show the U.S. economy grew at a 2.4
percent annual pace in the third quarter, more than the 2
percent pace estimated last month, according to the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. A separate
survey said figures from the National Association of Realtors
may show that existing home sales slid 1.1 percent in October
from September, the first decline in three months.  Treasury yields were within 1 basis point of a one-week low,
with benchmark 10-year notes  yielding  2.8 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net ;
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at   wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  