-- European Stocks Fall to Six-Week Low on Debt Concern, Korea
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2010-11-23T17:03:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/european-u-s-stock-futures-drop-after-north-korea-fires-shells-at-south.html
European stocks fell to a six-week
low, extending a global selloff, as concern escalated that the
region’s debt crisis will spread and North Korea fired artillery
shells into South Korea.  Bank of Ireland Plc plunged 25 percent as Prime Minister
 Brian Cowen  said he will seek national elections early next
year. Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA dropped 3.9 percent as
the cost of insuring Spanish and Portuguese subordinated bank
bonds surged. Antofagasta Plc lost 4.2 percent as metals fell.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  dropped 1.5 percent to 263.62 at
the 4:30 p.m. close in London, extending yesterday’s 0.7 percent
decline after Ireland’s request for a bailout failed to convince
investors that the region has contained its debt crisis. The
Euro Stoxx 50 Index, a benchmark for the euro area, tumbled 2.6
percent to 2,739.37, the biggest drop since Aug. 11.  It’s not “surprising that the market should be playing the
domino game and probably shooting for the next most vulnerable
member of the euro zone,” said  Andreas Utermann , chief
investment officer at the RCM unit of Allianz Global Investors
on Bloomberg Television. “The Irish government’s troubles now
demonstrate quite clearly that there is a lot of political risk
involved.”  National benchmark indexes declined in all 18 western
European markets today with gauges in Ireland, Spain, Portugal
and Italy tumbling more than 2 percent. Credit-default swap
contracts on Irish government bonds surged 25.5 basis points to
551, according to data provider CMA in London. The cost of
insuring corporate debt also climbed to a record.  Korean Peninsula  North Korea lobbed artillery shells at a South Korean
island near the border, killing two soldiers and setting houses
ablaze. South Korea returned fire with 80 shells and scrambled
fighter jets as President  Lee Myung Bak  vowed to respond.  Bank of Ireland  sank 25 percent to 29.2 euro cents in
Dublin as the government said it will seek national elections
early next year after it passes the 2011 budget. The
announcement came hours after the Green Party said it will pull
out of the ruling coalition following the budget vote, saying
Cowen misled voters in negotiating the bailout.  “Political risks now start to come to the forefront,”
said Utermann on Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move” with
 Francine Lacqua . “If new elections come to pass which bring
parties to power that don’t agree with the previous policies,
that introduces another, even bigger risk into the market.”  BBVA, Santander  BBVA, Spain’s second-biggest bank, dropped 3.9 percent to
7.63 euros as traders of credit-default swaps turned their focus
to southern Europe. Banco Santander SA declined 4.7 percent to
7.80 euros and Portugal’s Banco Espirito Santo SA lost 3.5
percent to 3.03 euros.  Swaps on Banco Espirito rose to a record, while contracts
on BBVA climbed to the highest level in more than four months.
The benchmark gauge of European sovereign risk also jumped to an
all-time high.  Barclays Plc lost 2.1 percent to 264.25 pence as the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission said the bank may have
violated securities laws when it received two transfers totaling
about $1.3 billion from Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in
September 2008.  Antofagasta, the owner of copper mines in Chile, declined
4.2 percent to 1,317 pence as copper, zinc and aluminum
retreated on the London Metal Exchange. BHP Billiton Ltd. fell
2.2 percent to 2,268 pence and Rio Tinto Group declined 2.8
percent to 4,070 pence.  Financial Mistakes  Sky Deutschland AG sank 5.9 percent to 1.47 euros after the
nation’s regulator found mistakes in the company’s financial
statements regarding profit, credit risks and subscriber counts.  BaFin’s findings in the annual 2007 and first-half 2008
statements, if conclusive, may lead to corrected financial
reports, fines and claims for damages, the company said
yesterday in a statement. Sky Deutschland called the claims
“inapplicable” and said they will be legally reviewed.  Marine Harvest ASA tumbled 11 percent to 5.74 kroner after
its largest shareholder, Geveran Trading Co. Ltd., sold 250
million shares in the world’s largest salmon farmer. Geveran,
which is indirectly controlled by trusts established by
billionaire  John Fredriksen  for the benefit of his family,
reduced its stake to about 23 percent.  Mitchells & Butlers lost 2.6 percent to 344.6 pence after
the U.K. owner of the All Bar One Chain reported a full-year net
loss of 84 million pounds ($133.8 million) and declined to pay a
dividend.  Sonova Holding AG fell 7 percent to 124.4 Swiss francs. The
company said it will recall the HiRes 90k cochlear implant after
two instances in which the product malfunctioned led to “severe
pain.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Jones  in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 