-- Euro in `Exceptionally Serious' Situation Amid Irish Bailout, Merkel Says
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2010-11-23T15:21:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/euro-in-exceptionally-serious-situation-merkel-tells-audience-in-berlin.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said
the euro is in an “exceptionally serious” situation after
Ireland became the second European country to need a rescue
after Greece.  “I don’t want to paint a dramatic picture, but I just want
to say that a year ago we couldn’t imagine the debate we had in
the spring and the measures we had to take” over Greece, Merkel
said in a speech to Germany’s BDA employers’ group in Berlin
today. “We are facing an exceptionally serious situation as far
as the euro’s situation is concerned.”  While Ireland gives “cause for great concern,” the
problem is different from Greece because Irish banks are the
main issue, Merkel said. “But it’s also right and good” that
the European Union set up the 750 billion-euro ($1 trillion)
rescue package with the International Monetary Fund that Ireland
is now preparing to tap.  Merkel is stressing the threat to the euro posed by
indebted member countries as she pushes German plans to make
investors help pay for any future crisis in the currency area.
European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  and leaders
in Spain and Greece have clashed with Merkel, saying her stance
risks derailing euro-area nations’ deficit-cutting efforts.  The euro extended declines after Merkel’s comments,
dropping 1.6 percent to $1.3404 at 4:30 p.m. in Berlin.  Bonds issued by the euro area’s high-deficit nations
slumped amid speculation that a rescue for Ireland won’t damp
the debt crisis. Spanish 10-year bonds dropped a sixth day, with
the yield 12 basis points higher at 4.87 percent. Portugal’s 10-
year yield rose seven basis points to 6.88 percent.  Merkel said that she will keep pushing for a permanent
rescue system that forces bondholders to accept losses on
sovereign defaults from 2013. At the same time, “tough
conditions” will be imposed on any nation that seeks a bailout.  “I won’t let up on this because otherwise that primacy of
politics over finance can’t be enforced,” Merkel said. “It
remains our task to keep calling for tough measures and tough
conditions, but also to express clear support for the euro.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Czuczka  in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  