-- European November Services, Manufacturing Growth Unexpectedly Accelerates
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2010-11-23T10:06:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/european-november-services-manufacturing-growth-unexpectedly-accelerates.html
Growth in Europe’s  services and
manufacturing   industries  unexpectedly accelerated for the first
time in four months in November as companies weathered the debt
crisis and cooling global growth.  A  composite index  based on a survey of euro-area purchasing
managers in both industries advanced to 55.4 from 53.8 in the
previous month, London-based Markit Economics said today in an
initial estimate. A reading above 50 indicates expansion.  Germany has powered Europe’s recovery while other nations
have failed to emerge from the slump as governments step up
austerity measures to rein in budget deficits. Ireland on Nov.
21 became the second euro-area country, after Greece, to seek
external aid. The economic rebound also is under threat from a
global slowdown and a stronger euro.  “This is obviously much needed good news for the euro
zone, although it is notable and worrying that the periphery
countries still appear to be struggling markedly,” said  Howard Archer , chief European economist at IHS Global Insight in
London. “It also remains to be seen how resilient activity will
be over the coming months as fiscal tightening increasingly
kicks in across the region.”  The euro trimmed its decline against the dollar after the
data, trading at $1.3568 at 11:05 a.m. in London, down 0.4
percent on the day after touching a low of $1.3527 earlier.  The euro region’s  services index  rose to 55.2 in November
from 53.3 in October, Markit said. The  manufacturing  gauge
increased to 55.5 from 54.6.  ‘Very Unbalanced’  Economic growth across Europe “remains very unbalanced,”
said  Chris Williamson , chief economist at Markit. “Growth
outside of France and Germany appears to be stagnating at
best.”  The  euro region’s expansion  slowed to 0.4 percent in the
third quarter from 1 percent in the previous three months, with
expansion in  Germany , Europe’s largest economy, slowing to 0.7
percent from a record 2.3 percent. Spain’s economy stalled and
Greece shrank.  While the global recovery helped companies from  L’Oreal SA ,
the world’s largest cosmetics maker, to  Hochtief AG , Germany’s
biggest construction company, to beat third-quarter estimates,
the euro’s 10 percent ascent against the dollar over the past
six months may curb the pace of  export growth .  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
on Nov. 18 cut its global growth forecast for next year,
predicting a “soft spot” on fading government stimulus
measures. In the euro region, the economy may fail to gather
strength in 2011, the Paris-based organization forecast.  ‘Growth Impulses’  “After benefiting from some strong growth impulses in the
first half of 2010, the world economy will become more subdued
toward the end of the year and beyond,” Munich-based chemical
maker  Wacker Chemie AG  said on Nov. 22. “The pace of global
recovery is slowing.”  Europe’s debt crisis is adding to concerns about the
region’s economy. Ireland on Nov. 21 asked for help from the EU
and the International Monetary Fund that Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. estimates may total 95 billion euros ($130 billion). The
Irish government made the request after European authorities
expressed concern the crisis could spread to other euro nations
such as Portugal.  Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads the group of
euro-area finance ministers, said yesterday that the bailout
package was the “right answer” and will help “calm the
financial markets.” EU Economic and Monetary Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said the region’s recovery is “still fragile and uneven.”  The European Central Bank has extended emergency liquidity
measures for banks into 2011 and stepped up purchases of
government bonds. Still, ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
as recently as Nov. 18 that the non-standard measures are
“temporary” and the central bank must prevent crisis measures
“evolve into a dependency.”  “The markets still have a huge amount of uncertainty,”
said  Ken Wattret , chief euro-region economist at BNP Paribas in
London. “It would make sense to slow down the exit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simone Meier  in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  