-- Euro in `Exceptionally Serious' Situation Amid Irish Bailout, Merkel Says
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2010-11-23T18:11:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/euro-in-exceptionally-serious-situation-amid-irish-bailout-merkel-says.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said
the prospect of serial European bailouts was “exceptionally
serious,” sending the euro to a three-month low as officials
estimated saving Ireland will cost 85 billion euros ($114
billion).  Irish bonds dropped and the  premium  that investors demand
to hold Spanish debt over German counterparts jumped to a euro-
era record as the relief rallies triggered by Ireland’s Nov. 21
aid request evaporated. Traders are now betting the turmoil that
started in Greece a year ago will spread to  Portugal  and Spain.  “The markets currently have virtually zero confidence that
the bailout in Ireland will solve the European crisis,”  Charles Diebel  and  David Page , fixed-income strategists at Lloyds TSB
Corporate Markets in London, said in a note today. “With
markets effectively in a position to dictate policy, the risk is
that the credibility crisis shifts to more sizeable European
Union countries and thereby poses a greater risk to the system
as a whole.”  Contagion is spreading through the euro region as Ireland
hammers out an aid package with the EU and the International
Monetary Fund to save its banking system. The European
Commission estimates Ireland may need 85 billion euros,
according to two officials who were on a Nov. 21 conference call
of finance ministers. Of the total, 35 billion euros would go to
banks and 50 billion euros to help finance the government.  The euro dropped 1.8 percent to $1.338 as of 4:55 p.m. in
London. The yield on Ireland’s 10-year bond rose 35 basis points
to 8.65 percent. The spread on Spanish 10-year bonds over bunds 
rose 28 basis points to 236 basis points.  Merkel Risks  Merkel today chose to highlight the risks facing the euro
even as bailout talks destabilize Ireland’s government. Speaking
in Berlin, she said while she didn’t want to “paint a dramatic
picture,” it would have been hard a year ago to “imagine the
debate” now taking place in Europe. The German leader is
stressing the threat to the euro posed by indebted member
countries and is pushing German plans to make investors help pay
for any future crisis in the currency area.  “I won’t let up on this because otherwise that primacy of
politics over finance can’t be enforced,” Merkel said. “It
remains our task to keep calling for tough measures and tough
conditions, but also to express clear support for the euro.”  Merkel’s stance has drawn opposition from European Central
Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  and leaders in Spain and
Greece, who say it risks derailing euro-area nations’ deficit-
cutting efforts.  Thin Line  “It’s a thin line she has to walk between keeping control
of the discussion with the other governments to get the crisis
resolution mechanism, while not stirring further uncertainty,
speculation and contagion in the markets,” said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Group in Brussels. “Markets are
following her very closely. Her fate is linked to this crisis
resolution mechanism right now. It has to be a success.”  The extra yield on Portuguese 10-year bonds today rose 28
basis points to 435 basis points. IMF Deputy Managing Director
John Lipsky stressed in an interview with Bloomberg Television
that “facilities exist” for Portugal should they be needed,
though the country has not asked for assistance.  Ireland’s government will tomorrow announce welfare cuts
amounting to 800 million euros in 2011 as part of its four-year
plan to reduce its budget deficit to 3 percent of gross domestic
product from 12 percent, a personal familiar with the matter
said today. The county’s 12.5 percent corporate tax rate will
remain a pillar for national policy and the minimum wage will be
lopped by 12 percent, the person said.  Bank Run?  Unless European officials act quickly enough to calm the
crisis, Ireland risks a “major bank run,” Pacific Investment
Management Co. Co-Chief Investment Officer  Mohamed A. El-Erian 
said today. Allied Irish Banks Plc, the country’s second-largest
bank, said Nov. 19 that its deposits dropped by about 13 billion
euros -- or 17 percent -- since the start of the year.  “The numbers so far have shown that the Irish banking
system has been bleeding deposits,” El-Erian said in a
Bloomberg Radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “It will seriously undermine the prosperity of this
country for a generation.”  Cowen, who yesterday said fresh elections will be called
once bailout talks are completed, today faced calls to resign
from his own Fianna Fail party as lawmakers prepare to meet in
Dublin tonight.  “I’ll be telling him that I’ve lost confidence in you, the
public has lost confidence in you and for the sake of the
country and the party, give us an indication when you will
resign and let us select somebody to lead us into the next
election,” Noel O’Flynn, a lawmaker in the ruling party, told
Bloomberg News in Dublin today. “Several members will stand up
and ask him to go after the budget” on Dec. 7.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tony Czuczka  in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net 
 Emma Ross-Thomas  in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  