-- Shibata, Former JPMorgan Banker, Hired by Japanese M&A Adviser Crosspoint
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 2010-11-24T05:02:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/ex-jpmorgan-banker-shibata-joins-japan-m-a-adviser-crosspoint.html
Masaru Shibata , a former mergers and
acquisitions banker at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , joined Tokyo-based
Crosspoint Advisors Inc. last month as the local firm seeks to
win advisory work from Japanese companies expanding overseas.  Crosspoint Chief Executive Officer  Akio Katsuragi , the
former head of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s Japan unit, hired
Shibata as a partner, he said in an interview last week. Shibata,
45, confirmed the move. Crosspoint plans to hire about three
more people this year, Katsuragi said.  Katsuragi is betting Japanese mergers and acquisitions
abroad will gain momentum as domestic deals slow along with the
country’s economy. The number of overseas deals involving
Japanese companies this year is likely to exceed the 299
transactions recorded in 2009, according to a Nov. 4 report
compiled by Recof Data Corp.  “Japanese companies will increasingly boost overseas
investment in the coming years as flat growth in the domestic
economy, together with the stronger yen, pushes them to go
abroad,” Katsuragi, 58, said on Nov. 19 in Tokyo. “Natural
resources and energy are among the areas that may see a growth
in cross-border deals.”  Lehman Brothers  Shibata joined JPMorgan in 2008 and headed its mergers and
acquisitions division in Japan after working for about four
years at Lehman Brothers. Before that, he had been with Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. for more than a decade.  Crosspoint, formed in January, also hired former Lehman
Brothers banker  Tetsuo Serizawa  earlier this year, Katsuragi
said.  The value of overseas transactions by Japanese companies
totaled 2.75 trillion yen ($32.9 billion) this year through
October, compared with 2.89 trillion yen in all of 2009,
according to Recof Data, a unit of Tokyo-based M&A adviser
 Recof Corp . Transactions within Japan totaled 2.17 trillion yen
in the first ten months of the year, down from 4.34 trillion yen
all of last year.  Mitsui & Co.’s February $1.4 billion purchase of a stake in
the Marcellus Shale gas project in the U.S. led Japanese
natural-resource investments abroad this year. Mitsui is the
country’s second-biggest trading house.  A shrinking domestic market also prompted Shiseido Co.,
Japan’s biggest cosmetics maker, to buy San Francisco-based Bare
Escentuals Inc. for about $1.8 billion in cash in March and
bought out its Hong Kong venture, Shiseido Dah Chong Hong
Cosmetics, in June.  “There’s a severe battle going on out there at the global
M&A market, and a growing pressure on Japanese companies to be
more competitive,” Katsuragi said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shigeru Sato  in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
 Takako Taniguchi  in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net . 