-- Ex-SAC Capital Traders Implicated in Widening U.S. Insider Trading Probe
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n ,   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2010-11-23T19:50:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/ex-sac-capital-traders-implicated-in-u-s-insider-trading-probe.html
Former traders of  Steven A. Cohen ’s
SAC Capital Advisors LP have been implicated in a U.S. crackdown
on insider trading on Wall Street. SAC received a request for
documents from U.S. officials, according to a person familiar
with the matter.  Federal Bureau of Investigation agents yesterday searched
the offices of Level Global Investors LP and Diamondback Capital
Management LLC in probing illegal trading by hedge funds. Both
firms were founded by former SAC employees. Wellington
Management Co., the Boston-based money manager that oversees
$598 billion, also got a request for documents from U.S.
investigators, according to a person familiar with the firm.  “They appear to have an interest in some of the traders
who used to work at SAC Capital,”  John Coffee , a securities law
professor at Columbia University in New York, said in an
interview. “Those traders that the government seems to be
pursuing have to make a quick decision about whether they’re
going to cooperate or whether they’re going to fight. They will
get greater leniency if they give the government bigger fish.”  No allegation of wrongdoing has been made against Stamford,
Connecticut-based SAC, which manages $12 billion.  Jonathan Gasthalter , a spokesman for the firm, declined to comment.  As of February, the firm hadn’t received a government
subpoena for documents. Gasthalter declined to comment on
whether SAC has been subpoenaed since then.  Janus Capital  Janus Capital Group Inc.  said today in an e-mailed
statement that it got a request for general information and
intends to cooperate with the inquiry. The Denver-based firm
didn’t say who had made the inquiry and declined to make any
comment beyond the contents of the statement.  Wellington said on an internal conference call yesterday
that it is reviewing its records and that it didn’t engage in
illegal trading, according to the person, who asked not to be
named because the firm is private.  In a call today, Wellington officials disclosed the
document request, without specifying what kind of data
investigators are seeking, the person said.  Sara Lou Sherman , a
spokeswoman for Wellington, declined to comment.  Level Global was founded in 2003 by SAC veteran  David Ganek . Diamondback was started in 2005 by  Rich Schimel ,  Lawrence Sapanski  and  Chad Loweth , all former SAC traders.  A third hedge fund, Boston-based Loch Capital Management,
also was the subject of a search warrant yesterday, according to
a person familiar with the matter.  Typical Cases  In typical insider trading cases, the Securities and
Exchange Commission issues administrative subpoenas for trading
records or the Justice Department seeks grand jury subpoenas,
said  John J. Carney , a former U.S. prosecutor and SEC attorney.
The use of search warrants indicates a more aggressive approach
by federal authorities, he said.  “The execution of a search warrant can have a tremendous
shock-and-awe effect,” said Carney, now at Baker Hostetler LLP.
“To use a search warrant, prosecutors have to convince a
magistrate judge that they have probable cause that inside the
place to be searched is evidence of a crime.”  The raids yesterday follow testimony by a former UBS AG
investment banker at a criminal trial in September that he
“provided confidential information” to a friend who worked as
an analyst at SAC. Separately,  Richard Choo-Beng Lee , the co-
founder of Spherix Capital LLC and another SAC alumnus, has
pleaded guilty and is cooperating with prosecutors in its probe
of the Galleon Group hedge fund.  More Subpoenas  Portfolio manager  Richard Grodin , who left SAC to start
 Stratix Asset Management LLC  in 2004, also has received a
subpoena, according to a person familiar with the investigation.  “It is fair to connect the dots between ongoing insider-
trading investigations where a number of individuals have
pleaded guilty, and tie them to hedge funds, corporations and
other entities,” said Mauro Wolfe, a former federal prosecutor
who is now at Dickstein Shapiro LLP.  At least one FBI agent, B.J. Kang, has been inquiring about
SAC’s trading for several years, according to a person who has
been interviewed by him, Bloomberg Markets reported in February.
Jessie Erwin, a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara  in
Manhattan, declined to comment for this story.  Steve Bruce, a spokesman for Diamondback, and Andy Merrill,
a spokesman for Level Global, confirmed that the FBI had
searched their offices and said their firms are cooperating.  Three Times Peers  Diamondback returned three times as much as peers since it
was founded in 2005, according to an investor letter. It gained
73 percent from mid-2005 through this July, compared with 22
percent for funds with a similar approach, according to Chicago-
based Hedge Fund Research Inc. It beat so-called multistrategy
funds in 2006, 2007 and 2008, skirting losses from the credit
crisis. It has lagged behind the strategy average since then.  Bharara has been leading a crackdown on what he said in a
speech this month was “rampant” insider trading on Wall Street
and is devoting “significant resources” to the investigations.  Fourteen people pleaded guilty in the Galleon case, and at
least nine others are charged. Galleon founder  Raj Rajaratnam  is
slated for trial next year for insider trading, which he denies.  “Everyone in the hedge-fund industry is now trembling,
wondering whether anything they said over the phone could be
seen as incriminating,” Coffee said.  The search warrants probably mean prosecutors are studying
the marketplace more closely and are more “heavily invested in
the process,” Carney said. To make insider-trading cases,
prosecutors must show people bought or sold stock using
material, non-public information and had the intent to defraud,
he said.  ‘Truly Unbelievable’  To attorney  Ralph Ferrara  of Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, the
search warrants were “truly unbelievable” because the
government doesn’t have a clear standard for insider trading.  “It is outrageous that the U.S. government has decided to
treat something that they can’t define as if it were a dope
cartel,” Ferrara said. “The issue is to what extent do the
people they’re sweeping up really think they’re violating the
law, or are they using top investigative techniques to fill in
pieces of a mosaic, which is not against the law.”  Cohen started SAC in 1992 after leaving Gruntal & Co., a
New York brokerage firm. His track record at SAC -- a 30 percent
average annual return for 18 years -- is one of the best in the
hedge fund business. SAC has had one annual loss since it was
founded in 1992: a 19 percent drop for the flagship SAC Capital
International Ltd. in 2008.  Jumped 29%  The fund jumped 29 percent in 2009 and is up again this
year, gaining 11 percent through Oct. 31, according to a person
familiar with its performance. SAC delivers those returns in
large part by trading stocks quickly, usually holding them for
two to 30 days, according to a document sent to potential
investors in early 2009.  Schimel, a co-founder of Stamford, Connecticut-based
Diamondback, is Cohen’s brother-in-law and a former SAC
portfolio manager. Sapanski joined SAC in 1998 and traded
financial services, energy and retail stocks, according to
Diamondback’s marketing documents.  “It would appear in this case that the government is most
likely looking for cooperators who can give them information
about the types of information that was passed on to people who
profited from insider trading,”  Joshua Hochberg , who ran the
Justice Department’s criminal fraud section from 1998 to 2005,
said in an interview. Hochberg is now a partner McKenna Long &
Aldridge LLP.  Allegations that SAC or its former traders have used
illegal stock tips have surfaced for the past year in several
court cases.  Lee Guilty  In the Galleon Group case, Lee pleaded guilty last year and
agreed to cooperate. He was an analyst at SAC from 1999 to 2004
before joining Grodin’s Stratix Asset Management. Lee
unsuccessfully sought to return to SAC after Stratix closed.
Grodin didn’t return a call seeking comment yesterday.  Separately, in the Manhattan federal court trial of  Joseph Contorinis  in September and October, the government’s star
witness,  Nicos Stephanou , a former associate director of mergers
and acquisitions at UBS, listed six people to whom he leaked
stock tips. Those people included his friend Jonathan Hollander,
who was an analyst at SAC, Stephanou said.  Hollander hasn’t been accused of wrongdoing. His lawyer,
Aitan Goelman, declined to comment.  Chip Skowron , a co-portfolio manager at FrontPoint Partners
LLC who previously worked at SAC, was put on leave following the
arrest this month of a Human Genome Sciences Inc. consultant,
 Yves Benhamou . Skowron was the recipient of Benhamou’s tips,
according to a person familiar with the matter. Skowron didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment yesterday.  Ex-Wife  Patricia Cohen , who separated from Steven Cohen in 1988 and
sued him last year for racketeering, said in her complaint that
he told her “he had received inside information in advance of
the purchase of RCA Corp. by General Electric Co.”  At the time, Gasthalter called the lawsuit by Cohen’s ex-
wife “ludicrous.” A judge is considering Steven Cohen’s
request that the suit be dismissed.  SAC was also at the center of a criminal trial of Milton
Balkany, a Brooklyn rabbi who was convicted on Nov. 10 of
charges that he tried to extort $4 million from the firm by
claiming he could prevent a federal inmate from telling
authorities about alleged insider trades.  According to court records, Balkany told an investigator
with the U.S. Attorney’s office in New York in a conversation
that prosecutors secretly taped that SAC had inside tips about
medical device makers Cyberonics Inc. and Respironics Inc. and
Myriad Genetics Inc., which makes molecular diagnostic products.
An SAC lawyer alerted prosecutors to the extortion attempt, and
a prosecutor said during the trial that Balkany “lied” and
that there was no evidence of illegal trades.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Glovin  in New York federal court at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
 David Voreacos  in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 