-- Existing U.S. Home Sales Fall Twice Amount Forecast in October, Down 2.2%
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2010-11-23T15:25:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/existing-u-s-home-sales-drop-more-than-forecast-on-foreclosure-moratorium.html
Sales of existing homes fell more
than forecast in October as foreclosure moratoriums and a lack
of credit disrupted the U.S. housing market.  Purchases  decreased 2.2 percent to a 4.43 million annual
rate from 4.53 million in September, the National Association of
Realtors said today in Washington. Economists projected sales
would decline to a 4.48 million pace, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg News  survey . The median price fell 0.9
percent from a year earlier.  An overhang of distressed properties and an  unemployment
rate  hovering near 10 percent may restrain home sales, while
concerns over faulty foreclosure proceedings threaten to further
delay the mending process. At the same time, mortgage rates near
record lows may help limit the damage.  “There are still going to be quite a bit of homes up for
sales that have come from foreclosures,” said Ryan Wang, an
economist at HSBC Securities USA Inc. in New York. “There is
little improvement.”  Estimates of the 71 economists surveyed by Bloomberg ranged
from 3.85 million to 4.7 million. In July, sales ran at a 3.84
million annual rate, the weakest in a decade’s worth of record-
keeping by the Realtors group.  More Growth  Another report today showed the U.S. economy grew at a 2.5
percent annual rate in the third quarter, more than previously
calculated, as consumer spending and business investment grew.
The revised increase in gross domestic product compares with a 2
percent estimate issued last month and a 1.7 percent rise in the
second quarter, figures from the Commerce Department. Corporate
profits grew last quarter at a slower pace and an increase in
employee wages in the prior three months was almost twice as
much as initially reported.  Stocks held earlier losses on mounting tensions between
North Korea and South Korea, and concern grew Europe’s debt
crisis will spread. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 1.2
percent to 1,183.04 at 10:18 a.m. in New York. Treasury
securities rose, sending the yield on the benchmark 10-year note
down to 2.74 percent from 2.80 percent late yesterday.  Compared with a year earlier, existing home sales were down
28 percent before adjusting for seasonal patterns.  Regional Breakdown  Sales last month fell in all four regions, today’s report
showed, led by a 3.4 percent drop in the South.  The  median price  decreased to $170,500 last month from
$172,000 in October 2009.  Purchases of single-family homes fell 2 percent to a 3.89
million annual rate in October from a month earlier, the group
said.  The number of previously owned homes on the market fell 3.4
percent to 3.86 million. At the current sales pace, it would
take 10.5 months to sell those houses, compared with 10.6 months
in September.  Month’s supply would need to drop to around eight months in
order to stabilize home prices, the group has said in the past.  Distressed sales, which include foreclosures and short-
sales in which the bank agrees to take less than the full amount
of the mortgage, accounted for 34 percent of total sales, about
the same as in prior months.  The drop in sales last month “may be partly due” to the
temporary foreclosure moratoriums, NAR Chief Economist Lawrence
Yun said in a press conference. A lack of mortgage lending is
also preventing buyers from entering the market, offsetting any
benefit from lower borrowing costs, Yun said.  The Fed’s second round of quantitative easing will probably
be “not that meaningful” in pushing interest rates down much
more, he said.  Foreclosure Moratoriums  Foreclosure moratoria at  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and other
banks, along with government investigations into faulty
paperwork, threaten to further delay a recovery as houses slated
for repossession take longer to come to market.  Foreclosures are mounting as out-of-work Americans can’t
meet monthly payments while growing numbers of homeowners,
seeing their home prices slide to less than their mortgage
values, also default.  Unemployment forecast to average 9.3 percent in 2011 is
another reason why any recovery in housing may take years to
evolve, even with mortgage rates near record lows.  Housing starts  declined in October for a second consecutive
month and were 77 percent below the three-decade peak of 2.27
million reached in January 2006.  D.R. Horton Inc. , the second-largest U.S. homebuilder by
revenue, expects 2011 to be “challenging” for the industry as
 consumer confidence  and employment remain weak, Chief Executive
Officer Donald Tomnitz said on a Nov. 12 earnings conference
call. The spring selling season, the strongest for builders, may
fail to bring the traditional boost in demand, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  