-- Facebook Shares Get Chopped Up Into Derivatives as Value Soars
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2010-11-24T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/facebook-shares-get-sliced-into-derivatives-as-value-of-social-site-surges.html
Facebook Inc.’s surging valuation is
spurring shareholders to slice and dice their stock, giving
investors everywhere from Silicon Valley to Wall Street a chance
to bet on the company.  EB Exchange Funds LLC , based in San Francisco, as well as
New York firms  Felix Investments LLC  and  GreenCrest Capital LLC ,
have opened Facebook funds for investors looking to get a piece
of the social-networking company and its half-billion users.  By creating derivatives of the stock, the investment firms
are helping Facebook keep its shareholder count at 499 or less,
the maximum number a company can have before it has to disclose
results to the public. They’re also potentially creating a new
class of assets for investors, letting them tap fast-growing
private companies like Twitter Inc., Zynga Game Network Inc. and
 LinkedIn Corp.  -- all valued in the billions of dollars.  “It’s proving to be a really effective way for accredited
investors to invest in private companies,” said Larry Albukerk,
founder of EB Exchange Funds. “I don’t necessarily know if it’s
a good investment or not -- I just know people want to invest
and we provide a means for them to do that.”  Facebook , based in Palo Alto, California, has more than
tripled in value since March to $40.7 billion, according to
 SharesPost Inc. , an exchange for private companies. Zynga, the
creator of online games such as “FarmVille” and
“FrontierVille,” is worth $5.4 billion, and social-networking
service Twitter is at $3.4 billion. SharesPost values
professional-networking site LinkedIn at $2 billion.  Firm Founded  EB Exchange is buying as much as $15 million in Facebook
shares for a limited liability company that’s open to outside
investors, according to a Nov. 1 letter to prospective
shareholders obtained by Bloomberg. While Albukerk confirmed
that he created the LLC entity, he declined to comment on
whether it’s investing in Facebook, citing regulatory
restrictions that limit what he can say. A U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission  filing  from October says EB Exchange is
raising $15 million for a “pooled investment fund.”  According to the investor letter, units in the LLC are
offered in $10,000 multiples, with a minimum investment of
$100,000. EB Exchange makes money by charging a 5 percent fee to
enter the LLC and then another 5 percent when the shares are
distributed after an initial public offering or acquisition. An
LLC can have no more than 99 participants.  GreenCrest’s Fund  Across the country in New York,  Boaz Rahav , an 18-year
veteran of the financial industry, founded GreenCrest earlier
this year after talking to institutional investors who were
having trouble finding a way to invest in Facebook. He expects
to raise at least $100 million for his Facebook-specific fund.  “There are quite a large number of institutions, large and
small, that missed the boat or missed the opportunity to invest
in Facebook when Facebook was going through their capital-
raising campaigns,” said Rahav, an Israeli who moved to the
U.S. 15 years ago. “They’re facing the challenges of
identifying blocks of shares, negotiating a price and going
through the negotiating process with Facebook.”  Jonathan Thaw , a Facebook spokesman, declined to comment.
Albukerk and Rahav both said they eventually expect to open
multiple company-specific LLC entities.  The trend is a concern for  Laurence Allen , managing member
of Nyppex LLC in Rye Brook, New York, because of the lack of
transparency. For more than a decade, his firm has specialized
in so-called secondary transactions -- deals that involve buying
stock from existing shareholders, including employees. Primary
transactions, by contrast, are investments from venture
capitalists and other backers working directly with the company.  ‘Less Discipline’  Because private-company financials are opaque, investors
are buying based more on hype than actual knowledge about how
the businesses are performing, Allen said.  “There’s less discipline than in the typical investment
process,” he said. “Firms like Facebook may have stupendous
growth, a successful exit someday, and yet the investors in some
of these funds may have overpaid so much that the returns are
small and maybe even negative.”  Nyppex estimates that secondary-transaction volume for
private companies will more than double this year to $4.9
billion. SecondMarket Inc., an online market for private
companies, expects its volume to at least triple this year to
$300 million to $400 million.  Opportunity to Sell  For Facebook, the emergence of the secondary market has
enabled early employees and investors to sell all or part of
their stakes, reducing pressure on the company to go public.
Facebook is likely to put off its IPO until 2012, three people
familiar with the matter said in July.  Felix Investments opened its first fund more than a year
ago and now has them for 14 companies. The firm has two funds
for each company -- one for investors with at least $1.5 million
in liquid net worth, and the other for those with at least $5
million. Felix has raised about $250 million for the funds, said
Frank Mazzola, a partner at the firm.  Similar to EB Exchange, Felix charges 5 percent upfront. It
then takes 5 percent of the profit until an investment doubles.
After that, it takes 10 percent. All of the investments are in
fast-growing technology companies that are beyond the early
stages, Mazzola said.  “The companies we’re trying to get exposure to don’t need
money, don’t want money, won’t take money,” Mazzola said. “So
how do you get exposure to them? It’s by networking and finding
some early employees and investors that have an interest in
lightening up on some of their stock.”  Alex Bernstein, a San Francisco investor, bought a stake in
EB Exchange’s fund as part of a strategy to invest in private
companies at various stages. While he’s optimistic that
Facebook’s value will continue to rise, he recognizes the risk
of investing in a pricey security that will be difficult to sell
until the company goes public.  “It’s an unproven path to liquidity and we’re all hopeful
that it will work out,” said Bernstein, who spent the past 18
years in investment banking. “Secondary markets play a
meaningful role for a period of time. We still need an IPO
window to get liquid.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ari Levy  in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  