-- FBI Target Diamondback Returned Three Times the Average for Fund Category
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2010-11-23T23:02:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/fbi-target-diamondback-returned-three-times-the-average-for-fund-category.html
Diamondback Capital Management LLC,
one of three hedge funds raided by Federal Bureau of
Investigation agents, returned three times as much as peers
since being founded in 2005, according to an investor letter.  Diamondback gained 73 percent from mid-2005 through July
this year, compared with 22 percent for funds with a similar
approach, as tracked by Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc.
The fund beat so-called multistrategy funds in 2006, 2007 and
2008, when it skirted losses from the credit crisis. It has
lagged behind the group average since then.  Diamondback, along with Level Global Investors LP and Loch
Capital Management, had its offices searched yesterday in
connection with insider trading investigations by the office of
Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara , said a person briefed on
the probes. The raids came less than three weeks after Bharara
charged a French doctor with leaking proprietary information to
a hedge fund run by FrontPoint Partners LLC in 2007 and 2008.  Diamondback, which manages about $5.8 billion, has returned
about 6.3 percent this year and 23 percent last year, compared
with gains of 12 percent and 25 percent, respectively, for
multistrategy funds. In 2008, when peers on average lost 20
percent, Diamondback was flat. In 2007, it rose 19 percent,
compared with 1.8 percent on average for the strategy, according
to Hedge Fund Research.  SAC Alumni  FBI agents took trading files from Diamondback’s offices
and asked general questions about their business, according to
people familiar with the fund. The agents told the firm to
continue to operate as usual, the people said.  Steve Bruce , a spokesman for Diamondback, declined to
comment.  The firm, based in Stamford, Connecticut, was founded in
2005 by  Chad Loweth ,  Rich Schimel  and  Lawrence Sapanski , 51, who
all previously worked at billionaire  Steven A. Cohen ’s hedge
fund, SAC Capital Advisors LP. Schimel, 42, is Cohen’s brother-
in-law. Loweth left Diamondback earlier this year.  John Hagarty , Diamondback’s chief operating officer, was
previously COO at FrontPoint, according to Diamondback’s
marketing documents dated June.  SAC Capital got a government request for documents, said a
person familiar with the firm today, as the U.S. widened the
insider trading probe. Mutual fund managers Wellington
Management Co. and Janus Capital Group Inc. also received
requests.  ‘Silo Structure’  Diamondback has a similar structure to SAC Capital, in that
the hedge fund employs traders to run their own portfolios,
while Sapanski and Schimel oversee a so-called center book that
invests in trades believed to have the best potential for
success, according to the investor letter.  At SAC Capital, a team runs a portfolio, previously known
as the “Cohen Account,” that utilizes the best ideas from
other traders and analysts, according to the firm’s marketing
documents.  “Since Diamondback has this silo structure, it could be
just down to one bad apple,”  Tammer Kamel , president of
Toronto-based Iluka Consulting Group Ltd., which advises clients
on investing in hedge funds, said referring to managers who run
their own portfolios. “I don’t see this as being systemic.”  Diamondback charges clients fees of as much as 30 percent
of profits, according to the investor letter. Most managers
charge 20 percent.  FrontPoint  Neither SAC Capital nor Cohen have investments in Level
Global and Diamondback, said a person familiar with the firm who
asked not to be named because the funds are private.  Schimel and Sapanski didn’t return phone messages seeking
comment. Hagarty didn’t reply to a phone message and an e-mail
seeking comment.  Jonathan Gasthalter , a spokesman for Stamford-
based SAC, declined to comment.  FrontPoint, which wasn’t accused of any wrongdoing, decided
to close down the $1.5 billion health-care hedge funds after a
portfolio manager allegedly received tips about the results of
Human Genome Sciences Inc. trials for the drug Albuferon,
according to a person briefed on the firm’s plans.  The firm, which managed about $7 billion, had placed Dr.
 Chip Skowron , a co-portfolio manager at the health-care funds,
on leave pending the outcome of the probe. Before joining
FrontPoint, Skowron was an analyst at hedge funds Millennium
Partners LLC in New York and SAC Capital.  Level Global  Level Global, too, was founded by a former SAC trader,
 David Ganek , 47. The firm, which invests in technology and
financial stocks, won a $100 million commitment from New York
State Common Retirement Fund in November last year, according to
a monthly report from the pension plan.  Dennis Tompkins , a spokesman for New York State Comptroller
 Thomas DiNapoli , the sole trustee of the $132.8 billion New York
State Common Retirement Fund, said the fund also invested $225
million with Diamondback. He said the comptroller monitoring the
situation closely and are in contact with both funds.  “It concerns us, obviously,” Tompkins said. “We’re going
to do whatever we can to protect the assets of the fund and
protect our investments.”  Level Global told clients in April that it had sold a
minority stake to a leveraged-buyout firm run by Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., Petershill Fund Offshore LP.  Andrea Raphael , a spokeswoman for New York-based Goldman
Sachs, declined to comment.  ‘Bottom-Up’ Approach  Level Global, with offices in New York and Greenwich, owned
U.S.-listed shares of 77 companies valued at $3.08 billion at
the end of the third quarter, with 34 percent of that in
consumer discretionary stocks and 31 percent in information
technology companies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Diamondback had invested in 706 U.S.-listed companies as of
Sept. 30, with a market value of $4.13 billion, the largest
portions in energy and financial services, according to
regulatory filings.  Diamondback had about 215 employees as of August, according
to the letter. The firm said its portfolio managers “use
bottom-up fundamental ideas as provided by research analysts,
and integrate these ideas with macro and technical analysis to
complete investment perspectives.”  Diamondback last year agreed to return $94,014 in profits,
plus pay interest of $21,154 and a civil penalty of $47,007, to
settle allegations by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission that the firm violated trading regulations for stock
offerings by public companies. The company neither admitted nor
denied guilt in settling the allegations.  SEC Settlement  The SEC alleged that Diamondback in 2005 sold securities
short within five days of the pricing of a stock sale, and then
covered the short sale with shares it purchased in the offering.
The stock sales were by several Bermuda-based reinsurance
companies, including IPC Holdings Ltd., Axis Capital Holdings
Ltd., Endurance Specialty Holdings Ltd., and Everest Re Group
Ltd.  In determining whether to accept Diamondback’s settlement
offer, the SEC took into account “remedial actions promptly
undertaken” by Diamondback and cooperation afforded to the
agency’s staff, according to a copy of the administrative order
filed with the SEC.  Agents also executed a search warrant at the offices of
Loch Capital Management, a Boston-based hedge fund run by twin
brothers Timothy and  Todd McSweeney .  The McSweeneys had close personal connections with Steven
Fortuna, a hedge-fund manager who pleaded guilty in the insider-
trading probe that stemmed from Galleon Group LLC, according to
Reuters.  Timothy McSweeney  didn’t respond to a phone message seeking
comment.  Leonard Pierce , a lawyer for Loch Capital, didn’t
return phone calls and an e-mail seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Saijel Kishan  in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  