-- Fed Officials Disagreed Over $600 Billion Stimulus Program, Minutes Show
-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 2010-11-23T21:33:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/fed-officials-disagreed-over-600-billion-monetary-stimulus-minutes-show.html
Federal Reserve policy makers
disagreed over expanding record monetary stimulus this month,
with a majority seeing a boost to growth and employment and a
minority concerned about risks to inflation and the dollar.  Most officials at the Nov. 2-3 meeting saw additional
securities purchases as keeping interest rates low and boosting
asset prices, the Fed said in minutes of the session released
today in Washington. The Fed also said it’s considering ways to
improve communication with the public, such as initiating 
press briefings by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke .  The report illustrates the tension within the Fed over the
decision to buy $600 billion of Treasuries, which has since
attracted criticism from Republican politicians at home and some
governments abroad. Increased internal disagreement over the
purchases may hamper officials’ resolve to complete the entire
amount of purchases scheduled through June.  Most expected the purchases “to help promote a somewhat
stronger recovery in output and employment while also helping
return inflation, over time, to levels consistent with” the
Fed’s legislative mandate, the Fed’s Open Market Committee said
in the minutes.  “Some participants noted concerns that additional
expansion of the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet could put
unwanted downward pressure on the dollar’s value in foreign
exchange markets,” the minutes said.  Long-Term Projection  During the meeting, Fed officials raised their unemployment
projections for the next two years while lowering their 2011
growth outlooks. Some policy makers raised their long-run
jobless-rate projection, signaling they see some further
permanent effects from the recession on U.S. unemployment. The
median range rose to 5 percent to 6 percent from 5 percent to
5.3 percent.  U.S. stocks remained lower after the report, with the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  falling 1.4 percent to 1,180.73 at
the 4 p.m. close of trading in New York. The yield on the
benchmark 10-year note fell three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 2.78 percent.  The Fed disclosed that the FOMC held a videoconference
meeting Oct. 15 to discuss the merits of larger versus smaller
blocks of asset purchases and ways to improve communication.  For the purchases, most officials “saw advantages to a
more incremental approach that would involve smaller changes in
the Committee’s holdings of securities calibrated to incoming
data,” the Fed said.  Numerical Objective  In addition, officials discussed whether to adopt a
numerical inflation objective and decided to retain the policy
of giving policy makers’ long-run inflation projections, the Fed
said. Officials also discussed whether it would be “useful”
for Bernanke to “hold occasional press briefings to provide
more detailed information to the public” than is included in
the post-meeting statements.  Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  will chair a subcommittee to
review the FOMC’s “communication guidelines with the aim of
ensuring that the public is well informed about monetary policy
issues while preserving the necessary confidentiality of policy
discussions until their scheduled release,” the minutes said.
No deadline was given.  Bernanke led his colleagues in the asset purchases after
buying $1.7 trillion in mortgage debt and Treasuries through
March, which helped pull the U.S. out of the worst recession in
seven decades without reducing an unemployment rate close to a
26-year high.  Hoenig Dissent  While Kansas City Fed President  Thomas Hoenig  was the lone
voting FOMC member to dissent, several other officials,
including Fed Governor  Kevin Warsh  and  Charles Plosser ,
president of the Philadelphia Fed, have expressed skepticism
over the strategy.  The FOMC said in its Nov. 3 statement that the jobless rate
is too high and inflation too low compared with long-run levels
consistent with the Fed’s legislative mandates for stable prices
and maximum employment. Progress toward those objectives “has
been disappointingly slow,” the Fed said.  The second round of so-called quantitative easing, dubbed
QE2 by investors and economists, has been criticized by
Republican politicians as well as officials in China, Germany
and Brazil, who say it has weakened the dollar and risks
igniting inflation. Bernanke countered in a Nov. 19 speech that
central bankers are “unwaveringly committed to price
stability” and that the U.S. was at risk of letting too many
people be out of work for too long.  Jobless Rate  At the meeting, Fed policy makers projected a fourth-
quarter 2011 unemployment rate of 8.9 percent to 9.1 percent,
compared with 8.3 percent to 8.7 percent in their previous
forecast in June. For 2012, the jobless rate will be 7.7 percent
to 8.2 percent, up from prior projections of 7.1 percent to 7.5
percent. The rate was 9.6 percent in October, marking 18 months
at 9.4 percent or higher.  The projections are the first published updates since July
under the Fed’s four-times-a-year schedule.  Officials said the economy will expand by 3 percent to 3.6
percent next year, down from a 3.5 percent to 4.2 percent
projection in June; the 2012 forecasts of 3.6 percent to 4.5
percent growth compare with the prior projections of 3.5 percent
to 4.5 percent.  Earlier today, the government said the U.S. economy grew at
a 2.5 percent annual rate in the third quarter, revised from a 2
percent estimate last month. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News expect 2.5 percent growth in 2011 and 3.1 percent in 2012,
based on median estimates.  Inflation Outlook  Policy makers left forecasts for inflation, excluding food
and energy, little changed for the next two years, indicating
price increases may lag behind the long-run projection of 1.6
percent to 2 percent for at least two years.  Fed officials gave their first forecasts for 2013,
projecting growth of 3.5 percent to 4.6 percent, a fourth-
quarter jobless rate of 6.9 percent to 7.4 percent and core
inflation of 1.1 percent to 2 percent.  All forecasts reflect the central tendency, which excludes
the three highest and lowest projections.  Separately, Fed staff economists raised their U.S. growth
forecast for 2011 and 2012 on investor expectations for the
Fed’s asset purchases to lower interest rates, boost stock
prices and weaken the dollar, giving “additional support to the
recovery,” the minutes said.  Plosser, Warsh  On Nov. 16, three regional Fed presidents,  Eric Rosengren ,
 James Bullard  and  Dennis Lockhart , said they expected to buy the
entire $600 billion of Treasuries. Plosser said Nov. 18 it’s too
early to assume the Fed will complete the purchases, while Warsh
said Nov. 8 that the decision wasn’t unconditional or open-ended
and that the move is “necessarily limited, circumscribed and
subject to regular review.”  John Boehner , nominated to be House speaker, and three
other Republicans sent Bernanke a letter Nov. 17 expressing
“deep concerns” about a policy they said risked weakening the
dollar and fueling asset bubbles.  Also last week, 23 people, including former Republican
government officials and economists, urged Bernanke to halt the
stimulus, while two Republican lawmakers proposed stripping the
Fed of its mandate to promote full employment.  By contrast to the signers of the letter, many of the
voices in defense of Bernanke have central banking experience,
including Fed vice chairman  Alan Blinder , former Bank of England
policy maker  David Blanchflower  and Bank of Israel Governor
 Stanley Fischer .  The Fed’s second round of unconventional monetary stimulus
has boosted inflation expectations and  stock prices , while
keeping bond yields below their long-term average.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has climbed 11 percent
since Aug. 27, the day Bernanke fueled expectations for
additional stimulus by saying more securities purchases may be
warranted if growth slowed. The yield on the 10-year  Treasury 
note has climbed to 2.78 percent from 2.64 percent, holding
below its five-year average of 3.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  