-- Feinberg's $2 Billion in BP Oil-Spill Payments Fail to Halt Gulf Criticism
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2010-11-23T16:52:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/feinberg-s-2-billion-in-bp-payments-fail-to-halt-gulf-criticism.html
Kenneth Feinberg  has paid out almost
 $2 billion  from BP Plc’s oil-spill compensation fund without
quelling criticism by Gulf Coast residents such as casino
workers seeking to recover lost tips.  Today is the deadline for spill victims to apply to the
 Gulf Coast Claims Facility  run by Feinberg for emergency
payments, which are intended to provide immediate relief without
requiring recipients to waive their rights to sue BP later. The
fund draws on a $20 billion account set up by the London-based
 oil company  to compensate those affected by the U.S.’s biggest
offshore spill.  Feinberg, a Washington lawyer, has paid out about five
times the amount BP provided directly before he took charge of
the payments on Aug. 23. Justice Department officials, lawmakers
and business groups say claims continue to be compensated
inconsistently, with little explanation for why some are
rejected or checks are smaller than victims requested.  “People are frustrated, and they get more frustrated when
they hear about people who are doing the same job in some other
industry but are getting checks,” said Beverly Martin, director
of the  Mississippi Casino Operators Association .  As of yesterday, more than 423,000 claims had been
submitted to Feinberg’s fund, with more than 125,000 claims paid
or approved, for a total of $1.99 billion, and 135,000 needing
further documentation, according to a status report issued by
the facility. More than 67,200 claims have been denied.  ‘Working Correctly’  “Something is working correctly when you get 400,000
claims in three months and pay out over $2 billion,” Feinberg
said in a phone interview yesterday.  Feinberg, 65, who also administered a fund for victims of
the Sept. 11 attacks, has said the BP facility offers a better
deal than claimants are likely to get by going to court.  Thomas Perrelli, U.S. associate attorney general, urged
Feinberg in a Nov. 19 letter to pay claims more quickly.  “Many of the individuals and businesses whose claims are
under review do not have the means to get by while they await”
processing by the facility, Perrelli wrote.  He said speedier reimbursement would build confidence in
the program at a “critical time” as the emergency payments
end.  Earnings Halved  A casino worker who usually makes $90,000 stands to earn
half as much this year because tourism has declined since the BP
spill in April, Martin said. Feinberg and the fund haven’t
fairly accounted for the loss of that money when reviewing
claims, and few gaming employees have received any compensation,
she said.  Feinberg said the facility has written checks to casino
workers who can prove a loss, and he said he will continue to
review these claims.  The complaints by casino workers follow earlier protests by
Gulf Coast Realtors and hotel and restaurant owners in Florida
who said they feared being shut out of the process.  Feinberg, whose firm is being paid $850,000 a month by BP
to administer the fund, has adjusted his stance along the way to
attract more spill victims to participate.  He set aside money for real estate agents and brokers to be
distributed by state Realtor groups, and he agreed to review
applications from owners of hotels and restaurants far from the
spill after initially indicating he wouldn’t pay such claims.  ‘Absolutely Devastating’  Tony Kennon, the mayor of Orange Beach, Alabama, said some
residents have received only a small portion of their claims
with little explanation.  The spill has been “absolutely devastating here,” Kennon
said in a phone interview. “We are in the middle of a
depression. This isn’t a recession, it is an economic
shutdown.”  The claims facility is “not acting with appropriate
urgency,” Senator  Richard Shelby , an Alabama Republican, said
in a statement after meeting with Feinberg on Nov. 18.  Feinberg needs to provide claimants more of an explanation
when claims are denied or payments fall short of requests,
Shelby said. He also said Feinberg should reduce the backlog of
claims.  While today marks the last day people and businesses can
apply for emergency payments, claimants will still be able to
receive “interim” checks as they continue to calculate future
losses.  Claimants relinquish their legal claims against BP only
when they accept a final lump-sum payment.  Pressure on Victims  Florida Attorney General  Bill McCollum , a Republican and
once a critic of the claims process, wrote in a Nov. 8 letter to
Feinberg that he was pleased such payments will continue.
Otherwise victims would face pressure to agree to final
compensation without knowing the extent of the damage caused by
the spill, McCollum has said.  Mississippi Attorney General  Jim Hood,  a Democrat,
criticized Feinberg’s draft of protocols for final payments
requiring victims to waive their legal rights to sue BP and
other companies tied to the spill.  “Only people who are beaten down, poor, and/or desperate
would agree to the terms of the proposed release,” Hood wrote
Feinberg in a Nov. 9 letter.  Perrelli urged Feinberg to write interim checks more often
than the once every three months called for in the draft
protocols because many of the claimants “are living paycheck to
paycheck.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Snyder  in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 