-- For-Profit Colleges Fail Poor, Minority Students, Report Says
-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 2010-11-23T19:47:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/for-profit-colleges-fail-to-help-poor-minorities-education-trust-says.html
U.S.  for-profit colleges  are like
subprime mortgage lenders, targeting low-income and minority
students by “peddling access to the American dream but
delivering little more than crippling debt,” a report said.  Low-income students make up half of the enrollment at for-
profit colleges and minorities comprise 37 percent, the
Washington-based  Education Trust  said, citing federal data. The
nonprofit research and advocacy group, funded partly by the Bill
& Melinda Gates Foundation and the Lumina Foundation for
Education, said  Apollo Group Inc . and other for-profit colleges
have higher dropout rates and student-debt loads than
traditional universities.  The report follows the proposal of regulations by President
 Barack Obama ’s administration that would restrict the flow of
taxpayer money to for-profit colleges, which get up to 90
percent of their revenue from federal grants and loans and
received $26.5 billion last year in U.S. student aid.  “For-profit colleges provide high-cost degree programs
that have little chance of leading to high-paying careers and
saddle the most vulnerable students with heavy debt,” the
report said. “Instead of providing a solid pathway to the
middle class, they pave a path into the sub-basement of the
American economy.”  The Education Trust will distribute the position paper to
members of Congress and side with proponents of increased
regulation,  Kati Haycock , the group’s president said in a
telephone interview. The U.S. Education Department is seeking to
restrict funding of for-profit schools whose graduates have poor
records of repaying their student loans.  Declining Shares  “Today’s report provides many interesting data points, but
fails to include the fact that proprietary institutions cost the
taxpayer significantly less than traditional schools which do
not receive direct state subsidies and do not benefit from tax-
free status,” said Ryan Rauzon, a spokesman for Phoenix-based
Apollo.  As the government proposes new regulation, an  index  of 13
for-profit education companies declined 33 percent this year,
through yesterday. Apollo fell $1.10, or 3.1 percent, to $34.26
at 2:44 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  For-profit colleges in the 2008-2009 academic year received
$4.3 billion in federal Pell grants, which help low-income
students pay for college, quadruple the amount they received 10
years earlier, the Education Trust said.  Graduation Rates  Twenty-two percent of first-time, full-time students seeking
bachelors’ degrees graduate from for-profit colleges within six
years, compared with a 55 percent graduation rate at public
colleges and 65 percent at private nonprofit universities,
Education Trust said in its report, “Subprime Opportunity: The
Unfulfilled Promise of For-Profit Colleges and Universities,”
citing federal data.  The comparable graduation rate at  Apollo ’s University of
Phoenix, the largest for-profit college by enrollment, is 9
percent, the Education Trust said.  “It is unreasonable to expect non-traditional college
students to complete their studies within the government’s
arbitrary, predetermined timeframe, especially when we know
those students take longer to finish their degrees because they
have families and professional obligations,” Rauzon said in an
e-mail.  The completion rate for all University of Phoenix students
pursuing bachelor’s degrees is 36 percent within six years,
according to a report from the company.  The median debt level for bachelor’s degree recipients at
for-profit colleges is $31,190, compared with $7,960 at public
institutions and $17,040 at private nonprofit colleges, the
Education Trust said.  The Seattle-based Gates foundation and the Indianapolis-
based Lumina fund Education Trust’s higher education work,
Haycock said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Hechinger  in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net . 