-- Foreclosures of U.S. Homes Fell 36% After Freeze, Lender Processing Says
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2010-11-23T22:01:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/foreclosures-of-u-s-homes-fell-36-after-freeze-lender-processing-says.html
The number of U.S. homes seized by
banks tumbled more than a third in October after loan servicers
imposed a moratorium to probe whether repossessions were
properly conducted, according to  Lender Processing Services Inc .  Banks took over 79,886 homes, down 36 percent from a record
124,051 in September and the lowest number since May 2009, the
Jacksonville, Florida-based real estate data company said in a
 report  today. Lender Processing bases its figures on information
collected from loan servicers at the time of foreclosure.  Bank-owned homes are among the most affordable real estate
and a drop in their numbers may keep some homebuyers out of the
market, said  Sean O’Toole , chief executive officer of
ForeclosureRadar.com, a real estate service in Discovery Bay,
California, that tracks foreclosure sales in five western
states. Sales of  existing homes  fell 2.2 percent in October,
according to a National Association of Realtors report today.  “If there are many fewer, it could have an impact on one
of the hottest selling segments,” O’Toole said in a telephone
interview.  RealtyTrac Inc. reported Nov. 11 that home seizures dropped
9 percent in October. Its data are based on when foreclosures
are recorded in local government registers, so some of the homes
counted by Lender Processing may be included in RealtyTrac’s
November figures,  Daren Blomquist , a spokesman for the Irvine,
California-based real estate data service, said in an e-mail.  The Lender Processing numbers are “pretty close” to those
collected by ForeclosureRadar, whose data are based on auction
sales in California, Arizona, Nevada, Oregon and Washington,
O’Toole said.  Rising Delinquencies  The decline in seizures led to an increase in the number of
mortgages with late payments for the first time since May, LPS
reported. Delinquencies climbed 0.4 percent to 7.04 million. It
took an average 492 days for banks to foreclose on homes, up
from 484 days in September and 382 days in October 2009.  The number of homes in the last stage of the foreclosure
pipeline before becoming bank-owned property or selling at a
foreclosure auction increased 1.7 percent from September to 2.09
million.  Lenders including  Bank of America Corp. , JPMorgan Chase &
Co. and Ally Financial Inc. began suspending some foreclosures
in September after reports that employees improperly processed
paperwork for home seizures. The suspensions led to
investigations by attorneys general in all 50 states and
congressional hearings.  Lender Processing, the biggest U.S. mortgage and
foreclosure outsourcing firm, was subpoenaed Oct. 13 by Florida
Attorney General Bill McCollum, who says the company produced
documents in foreclosure cases that appear to be fabricated.  The moratorium may have contributed to the decline in home
sales last month, the National Association of Realtors said.
Distressed sales, which include foreclosures and short sales in
which the bank agrees to take less than the full amount of the
mortgage, accounted for 34 percent of total transactions, about
the same as in prior months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Gittelsohn  in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 