-- Gambia's Government Severs Ties With Iran; Orders Iranians Out of Country
-- B y   D r e w   H i n s h a w   a n d   J a s o n   M c L u r e
-- 2010-11-23T16:49:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/gambia-s-government-severs-ties-with-iran-orders-iranians-out-of-country.html
Gambia’s President  Yaya Jammeh 
severed ties with Iran and ordered diplomats out of the West
African nation, his press officer said, a week after a shipment
of Iranian arms destined for the country was seized in Nigeria.  The decision by the Gambian government was “directly
linked” to the arms shipment, Agence France-Presse reported,
citing an unidentified official in the Gambian presidency. Seydi
Mahamadou, press officer for Gambian President, said in a phone
interview today from the capital, Banjul, that he didn’t know
the reason for the decision.  The weapons shipment, which included small-arms ammunition,
mortars and rockets, may have been destined for separatists in
the southern Casamance region of neighboring Senegal,  Strategic
Forecasting Inc. , the Austin, Texas-based intelligence group,
said in an e-mailed note today. The rebels began attacks on
military and civilian targets in Casamanace in 1982 to demand
independence for the region.  Jammeh, who has ruled Gambia for 16 years, is from the
Casamance region and is “thought to be quietly and unofficially
sympathetic to Casamance rebels’ cause of greater autonomy if
not independence for the southern region of Senegal,” Stratfor
said. “The Gambian government is now likely scrambling to
distance itself from the Iranian weapons shipment.”  Surrounded  Gambia, a former British colony that won independence in
1965, is surrounded by  Senegal , except for its 80-kilometer (50-
mile) coastline on the Atlantic Ocean. The West African nation,
with a population of 1.78 million, is one of the world’s
poorest.  Nigerian authorities last week arrested an Iranian citizen
in connection with the cargo. “Investigations are continuing,”
Nigerian Foreign Ministry spokesman Ozo Nwobu said today.  The Gambian government’s decision to break ties may also be
part of Jammeh’s strategy to re-position the country for Western
developmental aid and trade, in the face of a Republican-led
U.S. Congress that may take a tougher stand against Iranian
allies in the region, particularly Senegal, said John Peter
Pham, vice president of of the New York City-based National
Committee on American Foreign Policy.  Senegal, whose president has backed Iran’s nuclear program,
is scheduled to host a visit by Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  next month, according to the Iranian embassy in
Dakar.  Shifts in Washington  “Jammeh is one of the better African leaders on being
advised to the nuances and shifts in Washington,” Pham said in a
phone interview. “It is very clear from the Republican takeover
of the House that there is going to be a remarkable microscope
on Senegal, specifically Senegal’s ties to Iran and the bad
governance of President  Abdoulaye Wade ’s regime. So what better
timing to ingratiate oneself to Washington and deflects
criticism from other matters like human rights?”  Jammeh, who seized power as a 29-year-old lieutenant in
1994, is currently campaigning to have himself crowned king of
Gambia, and has been accused by human-rights groups including
 Amnesty International  of repressing press and political
freedoms.  Gambia has historically used its diplomatic ties to
leverage aid from nations that most African countries do not
recognize, such as Taiwan, and the president’s decision to sever
ties with Iran may signal the solidification of an anti-Iranian
bloc in the region, Pham said.  “From the  Gambian  point of view, this is opportune moment
to make a switch,” Pham said. “Morocco is still very much on an
anti-Iranian kick. Certainly Morocco will reward countries that
take their position against Iran.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Drew Hinshaw  in Dakar via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason McLure  in Accra on 
 jmclure@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 