-- Gamesa Leads 11-Company Group Developing World's Largest Wind Turbine
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2010-11-23T16:10:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/gamesa-leads-11-company-group-developing-world-s-largest-wind-turbine.html
Gamesa Corporacion Tecnologica  SA is
leading a project with 10 more companies including Alstom SA,
Acciona SA and Iberdrola Renovables SA to build a 15-megawatt
turbine in a bid to drive down costs of offshore wind power.  Gamesa is coordinating “Azimut: Offshore Wind Energy
2020,” an initiative that requires a 25 million-euro ($33.8
million) investment by the companies during the next four years.
The program will establish technology by 2013 to develop the
turbine from 2020, Gamesa said today in a statement.  By building turbines more than twice as powerful as current
models sold, the promoters are betting they can overcome hurdles
to offshore wind power including the higher investment
requirements compared with land-based wind power and the
challenges in delivering energy to shore.  German turbine makers Enercon GmbH and  REpower Systems AG 
have developed 6-megawatt offshore wind machines. REpower’s
model, with a capacity of 6.15 megawatts, has a rotor diameter
of 126 meters (413 feet). Clipper Windpower Plc is developing a
10-megawatt machine and Norwegian renewable energy company Sway
AS is working on a floating version.  Under the Azimut program, Gamesa will oversee the turbines,
while Acciona Windpower will undertake the technology required
to convert wind energy to electricity. Acciona Energia will
carry out construction, operation and maintenance of the
offshore sites and Alstom will be responsible for the sea-based
substructures. Iberdrola Renovables will manage integration of
offshore wind energy into the electricity grid.  In addition, 22 research centers specializing in offshore
wind technology joined the project, which won approval from
Spain’s Center for the Development of Industrial Technology, a
unit of the country’s Ministry of Science and Innovation.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  