-- GDP Warrants Post Longest Rally in a Year on Soy Gains: Argentina Credit
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2010-11-23T22:06:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/gdp-warrants-post-longest-rally-in-a-year-on-soy-gains-argentina-credit.html
Argentine securities linked to gross
domestic product are having their longest rally in a year as
investors bet that a surge in commodity exports will bolster
economic growth.  Dollar-denominated GDP warrants rose 7 percent to 13.18
cents in the 30 days through yesterday, the sixth consecutive
monthly gain, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
performance is the best since the nine months through November
2009.  The warrants have jumped 72 since June as South America’s
second-biggest economy benefitted from a record 55-million
metric ton soybean harvest that pushed  reserves  to an all-time
high of $52.3 billion. The economy will expand 8.25 percent this
year, the most of any country in Latin America, according to
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The big driver of growth in Argentina this year is the
very good harvest,”  Carola Sandy , an economist at Credit Suisse
Group AG in New York, said in a phone interview. “What is also
helping is the improvement in the global economy, the industrial
sector is doing well because Brazil, which is one of the main
buyers of Argentine products, is growing strongly so the import
demand is strong.”  Crops Gain  Argentina’s  trade surplus  widened to $1.07 billion in
September, fueled by grain exports and automobile sales to
Brazil, according to the national statistics agency.  The nation’s soybean crop is forecast to cover about 18.7
million hectares this season (46.2 million acres), compared with
19 million hectares in the prior planting period. Harvesting in
Argentina, the world’s third-largest producer, usually starts in
March.  Argentina’s wheat crop is also forecast to rise to about
12.7 million tons this season from last year’s 7.47 million,
according to the Buenos Aires Cereals Exchange. Crops last year
were damaged by the worst drought in at least 70 years.
Argentina is South America’s largest producer of the grain.  Automobile exports rose 11.2 percent in October from a year
earlier, the country’s Automakers Association said in a Nov. 3
statement. Production rose about 18 percent to 67,495 vehicles.  The economic expansion will slow to 4.8 percent in 2011,
matching that of Colombia for the second biggest after Chile,
according to the Bloomberg survey of analysts. Brazil’s GDP will
expand 7.1 percent in 2010 and 4.5 percent next year, according
to the survey.  Strong Growth  “It’s pretty strong growth in relation to even other
countries in Latin America,” said  Alejandro Urbina , a Chicago-
based emerging-market debt manager at Silva Capital Management,
which has about $800 million under advisory and management,
including Argentine dollar-denominated warrants.  Argentina created the GDP warrants as an incentive to win
over creditors in the 2005 restructuring of $95 billion of
defaulted debt. In June,  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s 
government issued more of the securities when she renegotiated
$12.2 billion of defaulted notes that investors held out of the
2005 settlement.  The annual payment on the GDP warrants is triggered when
economic growth is above 3 percent and the inflation-adjusted
value of the country’s GDP is above the government’s base-case
scenario laid out in the warrants.  The cost of protecting Argentine debt from default with
credit-default swaps has tumbled 296 basis points over the past
six months, according to CMA.  ‘Major Upgrade’  “Most of the rally was directly due to reassessments of
the risk premium, rather than a major upgrade of the growth
expectations,”  Alberto Ramos , an economist at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. in New York, said in a phone interview.  Argentine warrants will pay investors 4.21 cents in
December 2011 should the economy grow at the 9.2 percent this
year as projected by RBS Securities Inc., according to estimates
from  Siobhan Morden , head of Latin America strategy at the firm.  The government made a payment of 3.11 cents per warrant on
Dec. 15 after the economy grew 6.8 percent in 2008.  The warrants rally has weakened in the past two weeks as
commodities dropped 7.6 percent since reaching their highest
level in two years on Nov. 9, according to the UBS Bloomberg
Constant Maturity Commodity  Index.  The price of warrants
declined 5.3 percent over that period.  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Argentine dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell 5 basis points to 532 at
4:42 p.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan.  The peso was little changed at 3.9735 per dollar today from
3.9747 on Nov. 19. The currency didn’t trade yesterday as
markets in Argentina were closed for a national holiday.  Fed Purchases  The cost of protecting Argentine debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps fell 11 basis points
yesterday to 673, according to data compiled by CMA. Credit-
default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Even as the pace of growth in Argentina slows next year,
the country may benefit as the U.S. Federal Reserve buys $600
billion more in government debt to push borrowing costs lower in
the world’s biggest economy, said Ramos.  “Easing monetary conditions in the U.S. tend to make
liquidity more abundant and cheap for emerging markets to borrow
and leverage the growth process,” said Ramos. “It supports
exports and commodity prices, which benefits Argentina.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Bain  in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  