-- German Exports, Investment Underpinned Third-Quarter Growth Amid Slowdown
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2010-11-23T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/germany-s-exports-investment-drove-economic-expansion-in-third-quarter.html
Exports  and investment drove
Germany’s economic growth in the third quarter, a detailed
breakdown of the data showed today.  Exports rose 2.3 percent from the second quarter and
 equipment investment  increased 3.7 percent, the  Federal
Statistics Office  in Wiesbaden said today.  Gross domestic
product  gained 0.7 percent when adjusted for seasonal swings,
the office said, confirming a Nov. 12 estimate. In the second
quarter, GDP surged 2.3 percent.  While growth is slowing as export demand wanes, stronger
domestic spending may put the expansion on a firmer footing.
Germany’s economy, Europe’s largest, will expand 3.7 percent
this year, according to the government’s council of economic
advisors. That would be the fastest growth since 1991.  “The upswing is broadening,” said  Andreas Rees , chief
German economist at UniCredit MIB in Munich. “Economic growth
is not only driven by exports and investment, but also by
private consumption.”  Consumer spending  rose 0.4 percent in the third quarter,
today’s report showed.  Construction spending  fell 0.4 percent
after its 6.9 percent surge in the second quarter.  Government
spending  advanced 1.1 percent and imports rose 1.9 percent.  Net trade and private consumption both contributed 0.3
percentage point to GDP growth in the quarter, while equipment
investment added 0.2 percentage point. Inventory changes dragged
on growth.  Germany is driving economic expansion in the 16-nation euro
area as the sovereign debt crisis that started in Greece spreads
to other countries. Ireland this week became the second euro
nation to ask the European Union for a bailout.  Euro-area economic growth slowed to 0.4 percent in the
third quarter from 1 percent in the second as governments’ cut
spending to rein in record budget deficits. Weaker global and
euro-area demand for its goods may damp German growth.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christian Vits  in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeffrey Black  in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  