-- Ghana's 91-Day Bill Rate to Fall on Cost-Cutting, Databank, Gold Coast Say
-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 2010-11-23T15:12:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/ghana-91-day-bill-rate-to-fall-on-cost-cutting-databank-says.html
Ghana’s 91-day treasury-bill rate is
poised to drop to the lowest since April 2008 by year-end as the
nation reins in public borrowing to cut debt-servicing costs,
 Databank Financial Services  and  Gold Coast Securities Ltd.  said.  The 91-day bill rate is forecast to fall to 12 percent at
the last auction of this year from 12.3 percent at its most
recent sale on Nov. 19,  Sampson Akligoh , an economic analyst
with Accra-based Databank, said in a phone interview today.
That’s the lowest since April 2008, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Collins Appiah, head of research at Accra-based
Gold Coast Securities also expects the rate to drop close to 12
percent, he said by phone today.  Ghana will use revenue from oil production that starts next
month at the Jubilee field to cut the budget gap by more than
two-thirds to 3 percent of gross domestic product by 2013, after
missing the deficit target in its first two years in office,
according to its budget delivered last month. Yields have
dropped from a peak of 25.9 percent in July last year as
inflation slowed in 14 of the 15 months through September.
Inflation was unchanged at 9.38 percent in October from the
previous month.  “What happens at auction nowadays is that government sells
bills only up to the point where the bid rates are favorable to
it, cutting off the rest,” Akligoh said. “Without an eye on
costs, government could have accepted all the bids and end up
selling more than it even sought to raise,” Akligoh said.  Appiah expects Bank of Ghana to keep its benchmark rate
unchanged at 13.5 percent at its Dec. 6 meeting. The last
reduction was 1.5 percentage points in July and the bank has cut
its key interest rate by 4.5 percentage points this year.  “We expect inflation to close the year at 9.5 percent,
which is too low to signal interest rates to rise,” he said in
a phone interview.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 