-- Gilead Pill Helps Protect Against HIV in `Breakthrough' Study
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   R o b   W a t e r s
-- 2010-11-24T21:18:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/gilead-pill-taken-daily-helps-protect-against-hiv-in-breakthrough-study.html
A daily pill helped protect gay and
bisexual men from catching HIV in a  study , the first to show
that a drug used to treat the world’s deadliest virus can also
be used to prevent it.  Gilead Sciences Inc. ’s Truvada, sold since 2004 to subdue
HIV in infected people, cut the risk of contracting the AIDS-
causing virus by 44 percent, and reduced new infections as much
as 73 percent in those who used it most, according to results
published yesterday in the  New England Journal of Medicine . The
findings may boost annual revenue for Gilead, the world’s
largest maker of AIDS treatments, by $1 billion.  The study is the third prevention trial in 14 months to
raise hope that HIV can be defeated after decades of failed
efforts to develop a vaccine. The U.S. Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention, anticipating that some men will ask for
the drug immediately,  warned  that condoms remain the best way to
avoid infection and Truvada isn’t approved for that use.  “There will be more people walking into doctor’s offices
saying, ‘Wow, these data look impressive, would you write me a
prescription?’”  Anthony Fauci , director of the National
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, said at a
briefing.  The researchers followed 2,499 HIV-negative men aged 18 to
67 in Peru, Ecuador, South Africa, Brazil, Thailand and the U.S.
who were all HIV-negative at the start of the study. Each
participant was followed for a median of 1.2 years.  As many as eight more  studies  are evaluating the safety and
efficacy of using the same approach to prevent infections in
heterosexuals and injecting drug users.  End In Sight  “The end of AIDS is no longer a dream, it’s in sight,”
 Mitchell Warren , executive director of the New York-based AIDS
Vaccine Advocacy Coalition, said in an interview. “We have
tools that when combined are going to allow us to break the back
of the epidemic.”  AIDS killed about 1.8 million people globally in 2009, the
Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS, or UNAIDS, said in a
 report  yesterday. That makes HIV the deadliest infection ahead
of tuberculosis and malaria, World Health Organization data
show. Gay and bisexual men account for more than half of all new
infections in the U.S., according to the Atlanta-based CDC.  Because Truvada is already a licensed treatment, doctors
would be able to prescribe it for prevention without regulatory
approval. A study published last year in the Journal of Acquired
Immune Deficiency Syndromes found that among 277 gay men in
Boston, 74 percent said they would use AIDS drugs for prevention
if they were available.  ‘Groundbreaking Research’  “I am encouraged by this announcement of groundbreaking
research on HIV prevention,” President  Barack Obama  said in a
 statement  yesterday. “While more work is needed, these kinds of
studies could mark the beginning of a new era in HIV
prevention.”  The study “raises a large commercial opportunity for
Gilead’s franchise” and may increase Truvada sales by $1
billion eventually,  Robyn Karnauskas , an analyst for Deutsche
Bank Securities, said yesterday in a note to investors. She
based her estimate on the assumption that 5 percent of
uninfected gay men would take the drug 30 percent of the time.  Karnauskas said many questions remain “about the validity
of prophylactic use in the real world setting,” including the
risk that long-term use would damage patients’ kidneys, cause
other side effects, or lead to resistance to the drug.  Gilead  rose 80 cents, or 2.2 percent, to $37.78 at 4 p.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading. The
stock had declined 21 percent in the 12 months before today.  Truvada combines two Gilead drugs, Viread and Emtriva, in a
single pill, and was the Foster City, California-based company’s
best-selling product last year, with  revenue  of $2.5 billion.  Gilead Weighing Options  Gilead doesn’t expect the results to fuel demand
immediately for Truvada, said  Howard Jaffe , chairman of the
Gilead Foundation, the company’s nonprofit charity, and a co-
author of the study. Gilead doesn’t track how many people use
the drug to stop infections, and hasn’t decided whether to ask
the Food and Drug Administration to approve it for prevention,
Jaffe said.  “This is a major breakthrough,”  Kevin Fenton , director of
the CDC’s Center for HIV/AIDS, said in a telephone interview.
Still, “it’s not time for gay men to throw out their condoms,”
he said.  Trial participants were given condoms, counseling on safe
sex, and testing for HIV and other sexually transmitted diseases
once a month the men. They also returned their pill bottles to
see how diligent they were in taking the drugs.  A total of 100 men contracted HIV during the trial,
including 36 on Truvada and 64 of those getting a placebo,
translating to a 44 percent reduction in risk.  ‘Very Encouraging’  The result was “a little lower than what we had hoped for,
but nonetheless very encouraging,” said  Cate Hankins , chief
scientific officer at the Geneva-based Joint United Nations
Program on HIV/AIDS, or UNAIDS. “It does show that this concept
works.”  The drug worked better in men who took it consistently.
Among those who took their pills on 90 percent or more of days,
the Truvada group had 73 percent fewer infections than the
placebo group. Among those who became infected, 91 percent had
no detectable drug in their blood, said Robert Grant, an
associate professor of medicine at the Gladstone Institute of
Virology and Immunology at the University of California in San
Francisco. He led the research.  The researchers were concerned that men in the trial may
have riskier sex on the assumption the pill was protecting them.
Instead, the men said they used condoms more frequently and had
fewer partners over the course of the study. No drug resistance
was observed among those who became infected.  Nausea, Weight Loss  Men on Truvada had more nausea in the first four weeks of
the study, and more of them lost weight unintentionally.  “The number one message that must go out is, don’t try
this at home,” Warren said. “This is not the pill you take and
all is well. For those people who think, ‘I’m at risk, I want
this pill,’ they have to have a conversation with their health
provider.”  The study raises questions about whether governments and
insurers will pay for AIDS drugs to prevent infections. Truvada
costs between $5,000 and $7,000 a year in the U.S. when bought
through the health-care system, and more if bought privately,
CDC’s Fenton said.  “This is going to be out of the reach of many individuals
in the U.S.,” Fenton said. The agency has had preliminary
discussions with insurance companies and plans to hold further
talks with public and private insurers, he said.  Other Successes  Other research breakthroughs on HIV and AIDS include a
study presented in July that showed a vaginal gel containing
Gilead’s Viread cut infections by 39 percent among women in
South Africa. In September last year, an experimental vaccine
cut infections by 31 percent in a trial in Thailand.  Truvada is already used in combination with Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co.’s Sustiva to prevent infections in men who take it
after unprotected sex with an HIV-positive partner, or in health
workers accidentally jabbed with a contaminated needle. The
combination pill, called Atripla, is the world’s best-selling
AIDS treatment, with $743 million in third-quarter sales.  Gilead separately said yesterday it applied to U.S.
regulators for approval of a new combination pill that adds
Truvada to Johnson & Johnson’s TMC-278. It would be the world’s
second single-pill regimen for HIV, following Atripla, Gilead
said. The J&J component is itself under FDA review.  Truvada subdues HIV in infected patients by blocking an
enzyme the virus needs to hijack cells in order to reproduce.
Researchers in the study hypothesized that, taken preemptively,
the pill may prevent HIV from gaining a foothold when it first
enters the body.  The trial cost about $43.6 million, of which the National
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases contributed $27.8
million and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation paid $15.7
million. Gilead donated the drugs used in the trial and paid
travel costs for some of the researchers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Simeon Bennett  in Singapore at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net ;
 Rob Waters  in San Francisco at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net . 