-- GOP Puts the ‘Lame’ Back in Lame-Duck Session: Caroline Baum
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2010-11-23T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/gop-puts-the-lame-back-in-lame-duck-session-caroline-baum.html
Members of Congress returned to
Washington last week for some unfinished business. While the
Democrats still control the agenda, the Republicans wasted
little time in establishing their priorities.  With no budget for fiscal 2011, no  continuing resolution  to
fund the government past Dec. 3 and no action on the Bush tax
cuts that expire at the end of the year, what did the GOP decide
to focus on in the lame-duck session?  Why, changing the Federal Reserve’s mandate. The 1978 Full
Employment and Balanced Growth  Act , better known as Humphrey-
Hawkins, entrusted the Fed with maintaining stable prices and
maximum sustainable employment. The GOP has decided the time is
right to free the Fed from serving two masters and assign it the
sole burden of delivering stable prices.  “We firmly believe that monetary policy decisions by the
U.S. Federal Reserve must be free and independent from political
pressures,” starts the Nov. 17  letter  from the House and Senate
GOP leadership to Fed chief  Ben Bernanke  protesting quantitative
easing.  Don’t these folks have anything better to do right now?
Their concern about the Fed’s short-term focus on asset prices
is touching, but where were these paragons of long-term thinking
when  Alan Greenspan  was inflating the housing and credit  bubble 
in 2003, 2004 and 2005? (They were paying him back for his
coveted 2001 endorsement of the Bush tax cuts. That’s where.)  True, some conservatives have long argued for a single Fed
mandate, which, along with QE2, is a legitimate subject for
public debate.  Doing Fed a Favor  The issue is one of priorities. Congress has a lot on its
plate, starting with the budget and the  deficit . While the Fed
is a creature of Congress, lawmakers should put their fiscal
house in order first.  Many Fed officials would prefer a single mandate. Bernanke
came to the Fed board as a governor in 2002 as an advocate of
inflation targeting. Philly Fed President  Charles Plosser  told
reporters last week that the Fed’s mandate “should be price
stability” and it is Congress’s role to determine what that
mandate should be. Fed Governor  Kevin Warsh , one of Bernanke’s
closest confidantes and advisers during the financial crisis,
expressed his reservations about QE2 in a recent  op-ed.   There won’t be any pushback from the Fed on retaining its
dual mandate. (The same can’t be said of the Obama
administration, which opposes stripping the Fed of its marching
orders to pursue full employment.) Congress, in fact, would be
doing the Fed a favor.  No Real Trade-Off  The idea that a central bank can deliver lower unemployment
by creating higher inflation was upended by economists  Edmund Phelps  and  Milton Friedman , who showed no permanent trade-off in
the long run. You can fool some of the workers some of the time,
Friedman and Phelps argued, but eventually they realize that
higher wages are a “ money illusion ,” that their purchasing
power has been crimped by inflation.  It’s much easier for central bankers to claim that price
stability is both an end in itself and a means to maximum
employment when inflation and  unemployment  are both low. With
inflation below the Fed’s target and the unemployment rate stuck
at 9.6 percent right now, it’s a tough sell.  Even if the Fed had a single mandate today, Bernanke would
still be doing the same thing: buying longer-term bonds to
insure against deflation.  Whether deflation is a real threat is a judgment, or
forecasting, call. Inflation is a lagging indicator. It may not
be as easy to unwind its  balance sheet  or bottle up excess
reserves as the Fed thinks. Market perceptions can turn on a
dime.  Rapid Response  Witness the recent rise in interest rates. On Nov. 4, the
five-year Treasury note, the fulcrum of the Fed’s $600 billion
of asset purchases, yielded 1 percent. Two weeks later the yield
was 1.5 percent. And that’s with an economy that is still trying
to get out of the starting gate.  One week of strong economic data, and the Fed won’t know
what hit the U.S. Treasury market. It will be sell first and ask
questions later.  Why did the GOP give the Fed’s mandate such a high
priority?  “The letter was proximate to the decision” to implement
QE2, says  Don Stewart , spokesman for Senate Minority Leader
 Mitch McConnell , one of four signatories to the letter.  OK. So the coincidence of the GOP missive and a
Republicans-only open letter to Bernanke, signed by economists
and other luminaries, was a case of bad timing.  Ulterior Motive  What do we make of the other popular explanation for why
the GOP chose the lame-duck session to quack about the Fed: that
they did it -- wait, sit down -- to score political points?  The Tea Party movement, the argument goes, lumps the Fed in
with other government entities in the “bad” column for its
role in financial bailouts. QE2 is another opportunity to
solidify the populist anger at government.  There’s a third possibility. GOP lawmakers may be trying to
shift the focus to the monetary authority to take the pressure
off themselves.  It’s one thing to promise fiscal reforms. It’s another
thing to deliver.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  