-- Greenhouse-Gas Pledges Insufficient to Combat Warming, UN Report Finds
-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2010-11-23T13:19:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/greenhouse-gas-pledges-by-nations-insufficient-un-report-finds.html
National pledges to cut greenhouse
gases by 2020 fall short of reductions needed to limit the rise
in global temperatures, according to a report released by the
United Nations Environment Program.  Targets in the nonbinding agreement reached in  Copenhagen 
last year would deliver about 60 percent of the cuts needed to
keep the world from warming by 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees
Fahrenheit) higher than in pre-industrial times, according to
the study released today  The “emissions gap” needs to be discussed when about 190
nations gather in Cancun, Mexico, on Nov. 29 for two weeks of
talks on climate change,  UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon  said
today in a statement. Negotiations for a treaty to fight global
warming have stalled amid disagreement between rich and poor
countries over how to proceed.  Reducing emissions “is not a luxury choice that we can
defer,” UNEP chief Achim Steiner told reporters in London today
via a video link from Helsinki. “There’s an ever narrower
window of time.”  Negotiators vowed in Copenhagen to cut emissions and stop
global temperature increases at 2 degrees Celsius. Without
pollution curbs, temperatures would rise by 6 degrees, an
increase that would lead “almost certainly to massive climatic
change,” the  International Energy Agency , an adviser to oil-
consuming nations, said in a report last year.  Most Cost-Effective  The most cost-effective way of limiting the temperature
gain is to cut global carbon emissions to 44 gigatons in 2020
from about 48 gigatons now, according to today’s report. If
nations did nothing to stem gas discharges, emissions would be
56 gigatons by 2020, the report said.  The Copenhagen pledges would lead to 49 to 53 gigatons of
emissions in 2020 and a temperature rise of 2.5 to 5 degrees
Celsius by 2100, UNEP Chief Scientist Joseph Alcamo told
reporters in London.  “There is no time to waste,” Ban said. “By closing the
gap between the science and current ambition levels, we can
seize the opportunity to usher in a new era of low-carbon
prosperity and sustainable development for all.”  An increase in temperatures exceeding 2 degrees will result
in more intense flooding and drought and a faster sea-level
rise, the UN has said. The 5-gigaton gap between the most
ambitious conditional pledges made in Copenhagen and the
required 44 gigatons in 2020 equals the pollution from all the
world’s cars, buses and trucks in 2005, according to the study.  A gigaton of carbon-dioxide, a main greenhouse gas, equals
1 billion metric tons of carbon, or about the annual emissions
from international aviation and shipping, the report said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 LLiebert@bloomberg.net . 