-- Greece Will Need Extra Effort to Meet Its 2011 Deficit Target, EU-IMF Say
-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 2010-11-23T11:04:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/greece-will-need-extra-effort-to-meet-2011-deficit-eu-imf-say.html
Greece  will need to make an “extra
effort” to cut its 2011 budget deficit enough to keep receiving
emergency aid, European Union and International Monetary Fund
officials said.  “A revenue shortage has been offset by more spending cuts
at the state level,”  Poul Thomsen , head of the IMF’s Greece
mission, said at a press conference in Athens today. “This is
not sustainable long-term. Deep structural reforms are needed”
to boost tax revenue and make state spending and agencies more
efficient, he said.  Greece’s struggles to cut the deficit are casting doubt
over its ability to repay on time the 110 billion euros ($149
billion) in loans pledged by the EU and IMF earlier this year.
Greece has vowed to trim the shortfall to 7.4 percent of gross
domestic product in 2011 from 9.4 percent this year, though its
efforts have been complicated by slower-than-forecast revenue
growth and an EU data revision that boosted the deficit and debt
 levels  through this year, EU and IMF officials said at the news
conference.  The officials, who reviewed Greece’s progress, cited a 7.5
percent deficit target for 2011 in a joint statement today.  Greece tapped the EU-IMF loans after concern about the
deficit pushed its borrowing costs to record highs, leaving it
virtually shut out of financial markets. Fallout from Greece’s
debt crisis sent the euro to a four-year low in June and led to
a surge in bond yields of other high-deficit euro-region
countries as investors shunned their debt.  Return to Markets  Greece is likely to qualify for the next tranche of loans
and should be able to start selling bonds again, Thomsen said.
Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  said earlier this month
that Greece plans to return to international markets in 2011.  “We are confident Greece will be able to return to the
market during the program period,” Thomsen said. If more funds
are needed options will be examined including extending the EU-
IMF loan repayment period or a “follow-up loan,” he said.  The cost and loss of confidence from any debt restructuring
would “far outweigh” any benefit, Thomsen said. Prime Minister
 George Papandreou  said last week that a restructuring is out of
the questions, according to an interview in Le Figaro.  Third Tranche  The November review was conducted before the EU and IMF
approve the release next month of a third payment of 9 billion
euros to Greece. Next month, the IMF is due to decide on its 2.5
billion-euro portion and make the payment, while euro-region
countries are expected to sign off on the release of their 6.5
billion-euro share at a meeting of finance ministers. The second
installment was received in September.  Greece agreed to adopt additional measures in its 2011
budget amounting to 2.5 percent of GDP and further steps will be
outlined for 2012-2014, Servas Deroose, deputy director general
of the European Commission’s economic and financial affairs
department, said today in Athens. The extra measures will center
on health-care and state-enterprise reform, he said.  Greece’s economy is expected to “begin turning around” in
2011, according to the EU-IMF statement. The economy is forecast
to shrink 4.2 percent this year and 3 percent in 2011, deeper
contractions than forecast in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Natalie Weeks  in Athens 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 