-- Greenhill Hired by U.S. Treasury to Help Dispose of Majority Stake in AIG
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 1 ]   D a n   R e i c h l   [ ]
-- 2010-11-23T06:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/greenhill-hired-by-u-s-treasury-to-help-dispose-of-majority-stake-in-aig.html
Greenhill & Co. , a boutique
investment bank, was hired by the U.S. Treasury Department for
advice on managing and disposing of the government’s majority
stake in  American International Group Inc.   The department agreed on Nov. 18 to hire Greenhill for the
next 18 months, according to a  contract  posted on the Treasury’s
website yesterday. New York-based Greenhill will collect
$500,000 a month for the first year and $175,000 a month
thereafter.  Greenhill is among investment banks advising U.S. regulators
on bailouts since the financial crisis threatened some of the
country’s biggest institutions. The Treasury used Morgan Stanley
on its rescue of mortgage-finance companies Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac in 2008, and hired Lazard Ltd. for advice on General
Motors Co., which went public last week.  The Treasury and Federal Reserve Bank of New York are
working to cash out their stakes in New York-based AIG more than
two years after rescuing the insurance company with a bailout
that has swelled to $182.3 billion. AIG was once the world’s
largest insurer.  AIG said in September that Treasury planned to swap its
$49.1 billion of preferred stock into common shares and to sell
the holdings over time. The conversion would boost the
Treasury’s stake in AIG’s common stock from about 80 percent to
more than 90 percent.  Greenhill, founded in 1996 by former Morgan Stanley banker
 Robert Greenhill , focuses on merger advice and doesn’t trade or
underwrite securities. Its advisory effort in the insurance
industry is led by  Alejandro Przygoda .  Advisers  AIG hired Bank of America Corp. and Citigroup Inc. this year
for advice on the Treasury’s divestment of its stake. The
company’s board picked N.M. Rothschild & Cie, people with
knowledge of the matter said in May.  The New York Fed hired Morgan Stanley in 2008 for help with
its handling of AIG. Under a contract made public last year, the
New York-based firm gets a $4 million initial payment, $2.5
million each quarter, fees for assisting on major asset sales,
and a role on any related initial public offerings. 