-- GVK, Reliance May Bid for Mumbai Airport That Fraport Says May Be Unviable
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2010-11-23T09:05:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/gvk-group-will-definitely-bid-to-build-operate-mumbai-s-second-airport.html
GVK Power & Infrastructure Ltd. said
its venture running Mumbai’s airport will bid to manage a
planned second airfield in India’s financial capital as economic
growth spurs travel demand.  “We are certainly going to bid,”  A. Issac George , chief
financial officer of GVK Power, said today by phone.  Mumbai
International Airport Pvt. , 37 percent owned by GVK, has the
right of first refusal on the airport, under the terms of a deal
signed when it took over the existing airfield in 2006.  Reliance Infrastructure Ltd. , controlled by billionaire
 Anil Dhirubhai Ambani , said it may also compete for the 74
percent stake that the government is offering in the planned 150
billion-rupee ($3.3 billion) airport in eastern suburb of Navi
Mumbai. GVK is also expanding the current airport to keep pace
with travel in an economy growing more than 8 percent a year.  “GVK will definitely make a very strong bid for the
project,” said  Kapil Kaul , chief executive officer of Center
for Asia Pacific Aviation’s Indian unit. “They wouldn’t want
any competition in running airports in Mumbai.”  The new airport will have an annual capacity of 10 million
passengers when the first phase is completed by 2014, according
to the government. If GVK group’s offer is within 10 percent of
the highest bid the group has the right to match the winning
tender, according to the terms of the  2006 deal , Manish
Kalghatgi, a company spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Expansion Plans  The bid for the second airport won’t affect GVK’s plan to
more than double capacity at the existing facility to 40 million
passengers a year, George said.  GVK fell as much as 4 percent to 41.25 rupees in Mumbai and
changed hands at 42.35 rupees as of 2:19 p.m. The stock has
fallen 8.8 percent this year.  Reliance Infrastructure expects to bid for the new airport
once the request for proposals has been published, said Ravi
Muthreja, a spokesman.  Larson & Toubro Ltd. , India’s biggest
engineering company, has previously said it wants to operate
airports. K.V. Rangaswami, its head of construction, wasn’t
immediately available for comment.  Fraport AG , owner of a stake in the operator of New Delhi’s
airport, is unlikely to bid for the Mumbai airport, said  Ansgar Sickert , the head of its India operations.  “We think that the cost of developing the airport will
be very high,” he said. “As air traffic shifts toward low-cost
travel, we don’t think it is viable.”  Airport Expansion  GVK plans to invest as much as 50 billion rupees this year
to expand the airport in Mumbai and one in Bangalore, Chairman
G.V. Krishna Reddy said in August.  The government gave ‘in-principle’ approval to the Navi
Mumbai airport in July 2007, according to the Ministry of Civil
Aviation’s  website . Domestic air traffic may surge fourfold to
180 million passengers annually by 2020, Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  said July 3.  New Delhi’s airport opened a new terminal in July, more
than doubling the facility’s capacity. The  GMR Infrastructure
Ltd. -led venture built the terminal in 37 months, faster than
the 45 months Beijing took to complete its terminal ahead of the
Olympics.  The government has already approved new airports in Goa,
Maharashtra and Karnataka, and has received proposals for
airports in the states of Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Siddharth Philip  in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 