-- Miami’s ‘Condo King’ Perez Perseveres After Losses
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2010-11-23T15:32:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/miami-s-condo-king-perez-perseveres-after-1-billion-in-losses.html
Early this year, as  Jorge Perez 
struggled to restructure more than $1.5 billion of debt on
mostly vacant Florida condominium projects, doctors discovered a
golf ball-sized tumor on his pancreas.  “You understand how vulnerable you are,” Perez, 61, said
while sitting in his Miami waterfront office, with a view of the
skyline shaped by Related Group of Florida, the real estate
company he founded in 1979. “You’re here on a loan and you
never know when they’re going to call it.”  Perez, known locally as the “Condo King,” survived the
medical scare. In January, after nine hours of surgery to remove
the tumor, doctors determined it was benign. Related Group,
after absorbing $1 billion in losses, is still standing.  Last week, the company reached a foreclosure agreement with
lenders holding a $223 million mortgage on Trump Hollywood, a
41-floor luxury-condo tower in Hollywood, Florida, where 22 of
200 units have sold. BH III LLC, a Miami property-investment
firm, paid $160 million for the note, said Mark Pordes, chief
executive officer of  Pordes Residential Sales & Marketing  in
Aventura, Florida, who brokered the deal.  The sale put the last of Perez’s seven troubled Sunshine
State projects behind him.  “Things are clearing now,” Perez said in a Nov. 19
telephone interview. “Most of the lenders will feel that way.
And we’re talking to many of them and trying to do deals.”  Reputation Intact  Related Group lost four of the seven Florida developments
to foreclosure, sold its interest in one to a partner and
renegotiated payments on two others. In all but one deal, it
retained a management or marketing role.  “Banks have great respect for him and banks need him,”
said  Donald Trump , the New York celebrity developer who licensed
his name to Perez for the Trump Hollywood. “They’ll make a deal
with Jorge whereas they wouldn’t make a deal with other
people.”  Perez’s reputation is so solid, Trump said, that lenders
and investors work with him even though he was the biggest
developer in the biggest condo bubble in the country. Related
Group accounted for 5,500 of the 22,000 condos built in Miami’s
central business district from 2003 to 2008, with pre-
construction  prices  doubling or tripling as speculators traded
units like stocks, said Jack McCabe, a real estate consultant in
Deerfield Beach, Florida.  Face of Bust  “He’s one of the faces of the boom-bust cycle that
resulted in the great recession,” McCabe said. “He’s also one
of the real geniuses, because he’s been able to stay in
business.”  U.S. condo  sales fell  28 percent in October compared with a
year earlier to an annual pace of 540,000, the National
Association of Realtors reported today. Florida  condo sales 
climbed 15 percent to 16,938 units in the third quarter, while
median prices fell 21 percent to $84,000, the Florida
Association of Realtors reported Nov. 11. In Miami, sales
climbed 43 percent during the quarter to 2,527 units while
prices dropped 24 percent to $104,600.  As Florida struggles to recover,  Related Group , which has
built or managed more than 77,000 housing units in the U.S. and
Latin America, is investing again. Perez said he’s using
government financing to build affordable housing in Florida’s
Miami-Dade and Orange counties. He bought shopping malls in
Phoenix and Birmingham, Alabama.  India Trip  He returned last week from India, where he’s an investor in
a partnership to build middle-class housing in Amritsar,
Udaipur, Lucknow, Coimbatore and Bangalore. And he hasn’t given
up on his dream of Miami as a tropical Manhattan, though he said
it will take at least three years before the market is ready for
more high-rise condos.  “If you went to a lender and asked for financing on a
condo, they’d either laugh so hard that they’d die or they’d
shoot you right on the spot,” he said during the earlier
interview in his office.  By reaching out-of-court agreements with lenders, Related
Group was able to accelerate its recovery and turn to new
projects, said  Troy Taylor , president of the  Algon Group , an
Atlanta investment bank that advised Perez on restructuring.  “He put his dirty laundry behind him,” Taylor said in a
telephone interview. “There are other developers who can’t
focus on opportunities because they are still cleaning up their
problems.”  Early to Restructure  Unlike many developers, Perez confronted his troubled
projects while he still had some negotiating leverage, Taylor
said. Related Group booked $1 billion in impairments in 2008,
said Matt Allen, its chief operating officer, as condo buyers
walked away from their deposits and lenders balked at financing
amid falling prices. In January 2009, the company invited
representatives from seven loan syndicates to a conference room
at the Hilton Miami Downtown, where Perez presented a plan for a
comprehensive workout.  “I had 80 lenders, from all over the world, and each one
of them could say no,” Perez said.  They all said no, at first.  Perez said that as a boy of 10 in Cuba he learned that
forces beyond his power could shape his destiny. His father
owned a pharmaceutical company and the family lived in a Havana
home staffed by maids and a chauffeur, a lifestyle that ended
with the 1959 revolution led by Fidel Castro. As the Perez
family fled the country, he watched soldiers at the airport take
his mother’s jewels, including the rings on her fingers.  Meeting Steven Ross  “My father left everything behind, every penny, and he had
to start again,” Perez said. “I saw how things beyond your
control could cause you to lose everything.”  After finishing high school in Colombia, he moved to Miami
to start community college, eventually earning a master’s degree
in urban planning at the  University of Michigan  in 1976. After
graduate school, he returned to work for the city of Miami,
where he said he felt at home as a Latin American immigrant. He
worked at the city’s planning department, followed by a job at
Landauer Associates Inc., a real estate services firm. In 1979,
when Perez was scouting for low-cost housing deals, he competed
against a New Yorker named  Stephen Ross , founder of Related Cos.  “A woman working for the city of Miami said, ‘You guys
should get together,’ ” Ross, 70, said in a telephone
interview. “We both had the same passion.”  Ross, whose company’s real estate portfolio is worth more
than $15 billion, said he offered Perez 15 percent equity in
Related’s Florida division. Over time, Perez’s share climbed to
75 percent, while Ross said he holds the other 25 percent.  Politics, Art  To survive the real estate crash that began in 2007,
Related Group cut 300 of 600 employees. Perez sold the company’s
Gulfstream III jet while retaining a share in a smaller Citation
X. In 2008, Forbes listed Perez’s net worth as $1.3 billion.
Last year, he fell off the magazine’s billionaire’s list.  “My income has suffered tremendously,” Perez said. “But
I’m not worried where my next meal is coming from.”  Perez’s office shelves hold pictures of his family -- the
father of four is now in his second marriage -- next to photos
of the developer with Barack Obama, Hillary Clinton and Bill
Clinton, whose presidential campaigns he supported. His
collection of Latin American art includes works by masters such
as Diego Rivera, Frida Kahlo and Fernando Botero. He donated
$1.25 million to the University of Miami’s  Jorge M. Perez
Architecture Center , which opened in 2005.  Loyal Partners  Perez is also a vice chairman of the Ross-owned Miami
Dolphins of the National Football League and attends home games
in the owner’s box. Ross and Perez vacation together, yachting
in the Mediterranean and skiing in  Deer Valley Resort , Utah.  “He became probably the best of friends,” Ross said. “He
was there when most people would’ve left.”  When a recession hit New York’s real estate market in the
early 1990s, Ross said Perez helped Related Cos.  “We were doing well in Florida,” Ross said. “Profits of
that company carried us and we recapitalized.”  In August, Ross and  Dean Adler , co-founder of Lubert-Adler
Partners LP, a Philadelphia-based private-equity firm, won a bid
on a $157 million construction loan held by Bank of America
Corp. on the  Oasis Fort Myers , twin 32-story towers developed by
Perez where sales collapsed. After the auction, Ross and Adler,
a partner of Perez in a $1 billion distressed real estate fund,
turned management and sales responsibility back to Perez.  City South Place  “We felt Perez and his organization were the superior
team,” said Adler, who declined to disclose how much he paid
for the Oasis note. “I’d rather team up with a group that has
significant experience. It’s not necessarily Related’s fault the
market turned.”  Shirley Norton , a Bank of America spokeswoman in San
Francisco, declined to comment on the Oasis deal.  Related Group continued to run sales and management at City
Place South, a 420-unit condo building in West Palm Beach,
Florida, after reaching a “friendly foreclosure” agreement in
July 2009 with a seven-bank syndicate led by Scotia Capital
Inc., which was owed about $119 million on the 20-story tower.
On Nov. 9, the noteholders sold City Place South’s last 305
units in a bulk deal for $64 million to  Gulfstream Capital
Partners LLC , a closely held firm in Dallas. Gulfstream hasn’t
decided whether Related Group will continue to play a role at
the property, managing partner Frank Howard Jr. said in a Nov.
17 interview.  Icon of Collapse  Perez’s office window faces south toward the high-rise
condos he built along Brickell Avenue. Among the tallest are the
57-floor  Icon Brickell  towers, a $1 billion condo and hotel
project that embodied Related Group’s highest aspirations and
biggest failure. Designed by Miami architectural firm
 Arquitectonica International Corp. , the complex includes a 150-
room Viceroy Hotel, pillars resembling the stone heads of Easter
Island and a 28,000-square-foot (2,600-square-meter) spa. Three
rooftop pools stretch 300 feet end to end.  More than 90 percent of the Icon’s 1,650 condos were under
contract, with 20 percent deposits, before the September 2008
opening, Perez said. Nine months later, just three dozen units
had closed.  “When you sell a building 90 percent, with 20 percent
deposits, you play every scenario,” Perez said. “What if 10
percent walk away? What if 20 percent? And then we went to 50
percent. People say nobody’s walking away like that. Then we
have 90 percent of the people that walk.”  Equity Lost  Perez invested $5 million to start the Icon Brickell in
2004, financing construction through a combination of bank loans
and buyers’ deposits. After sales stalled, he paid $100 million
out of his own pocket to honor personal guarantees on the Icon’s
construction bonds, he said.  “All those methods of leverage for which people said, ‘My
God, what a genius,’ ” Perez said. “Now people say ‘My God,
what an idiot.’ ”  In May, he reached an agreement with a syndicate led by
 HSBC Plc  on a $482 million note on two Icon towers. While he
retained management of the property, he surrendered his equity
and lost his marketing role to Fortune International Realty.  “He could have fought and the value of the asset would’ve
been depleted by the fight,” said  Edgardo Defortuna , president
and founder of Miami-based Fortune International. “Jorge is
more interested in seeing that, at least, this isn’t perceived
to be a failure.”  Juanita Gutierrez , a spokeswoman for HSBC in New York,
declined to comment.  ‘Timing, Timing, Timing’  Since Defortuna took over in May, 296 of the two towers’
1,273 units have closed at prices as low as $300 a square foot,
half of the original asking price. Another 486 units are unsold.  “A place like this, the profits could be awesome, but it
came along at the wrong time,” Defortuna said, sitting in the
Icon’s movie-screening room during a party to cross-promote
condos with Versace fashions that featured models wearing purple
chinchilla coats priced at $90,840.  “Before, the saying in real estate was location, location,
location,” Defortuna said. “It has to be replaced by timing,
timing, timing.”  In October, after a  Bank of America -led group with a $175
million construction loan agreed to restructure payments,
Related Group retained ownership and management of the Icon’s
third tower, which includes the hotel. By last week, sales had
closed on 290 of the 372 condos in the tower, after prices fell
to as little as $325 a square foot, said Barbara Salk, a Related
Group senior vice president. Before the bust, asking prices were
as high as $600 a square foot.  Florida History  Developers have been making and losing fortunes on Florida
real estate for 90 years, said Neisen Kasdin, an attorney who is
vice chairman of Miami’s  Downtown Development Authority  and a
former Miami Beach mayor. Carl G. Fisher, the auto pioneer who
developed Miami Beach in the 1920s, saw his fortune swell until
1926, when speculative property flippers ran out of new buyers.
George E. Merrick, developer of Coral Gables, lost his fortune
in the Great Depression.  “This is very much in the history of Florida development,
visionaries who overextended themselves,” Kasdin said. “As
smart as Jorge is, there might have been an element of over
confidence.”  Perez is confident he will build again.  “We’re still managing to buy assets, affordable housing,
market-rate rental housing,” he said. “We’re increasing the
size of the management company, being advisers to other people
in real estate and doing things that allow us to survive and
hopefully prosper.”  Florida projects in various stages include an affordable-
housing rehabilitation project in Orlando, construction of
market-rate homes in the city of Plantation and more residences
around marinas in West Palm Beach and Fort Lauderdale, he said.
Sites on Las Olas Boulevard in downtown Fort Lauderdale and off
Brickell Avenue in Miami will see more high-rise condos -- when
the market is ready, he said.  The financing will come, Perez said, because he treated
investors and lenders fairly during the worst real estate bust
in his life.  “We never walked away from anything,” he said. “Now
we’re debt free. We’re a very strong company now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Gittelsohn  in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 