-- TIBC's Bahrain Lawyers Can't Void U.S. Rulings in Lawsuits, Judge Rules
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2010-11-23T23:55:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/tibc-s-bahrain-lawyers-can-t-void-u-s-rulings-update1-.html
The International Banking
Corp. ’s Bahrain-based bankruptcy lawyers can’t void U.S.
rulings in lawsuits brought by  Deutsche Bank AG  and  Mashreqbank
PSC  and force the turnover of about $29 million, a judge ruled.  TIBC, a provider of commercial loans winding down in
Bahraini courts, is in Chapter 15 bankruptcy in the U.S., which
foreign companies use to protect U.S. assets while they are
liquidated or reorganized in a foreign court.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Stuart Bernstein , who is overseeing
TIBC’s Chapter 15 case, today denied a motion by an
administrator to the foreign bankruptcy to vacate attachment
orders obtained by Deutsche Bank and Mashreqbank, saying a
Bahraini court should decide the issue.  “This puts the cart before the horse” because it isn’t
clear whether the attachment orders are voidable under Bahraini
law, Bernstein wrote.  Deutsche Bank, based in Frankfurt, has a claim for
$69.8 million and Dubai-based Mashreqbank has a claim for
$69.1 million. Both filed lawsuits in New York Supreme Court
seeking to recover amounts from foreign-exchange transactions.  Bernstein said “it appears” a liquidation will follow
TIBC’s current period of administration, which has a two-year
time limit.  TIBC invested in fixed-income securities, investment-grade
equities, hedge funds and structured products, according to its
website. It also develops finance products, such as sukuks, for
Islamic banks.  The company had assets of $4 billion and liabilities of
$2.6 billion as of July 31, according to its Chapter 15
petition.  The case is In re The International Banking Corp.,
09-17318, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tiffany Kary  in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 