-- Michelin Awards Stars to Nine More Restaurants in Netherlands
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2010-11-23T09:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/michelin-awards-stars-to-nine-dutch-restaurants-20-win-awards-for-value.html
Vermeer restaurant in Amsterdam and
eight other establishments around the country gain stars today
in the Michelin guide to the Netherlands 2011. Twenty more
eateries are awarded the Bib Gourmand, meaning value for money.  The winners of a first star include  La Provence , in
Driebergen-Rijsenburg;  ML , in Haarlem;  Kasteel Heemstede , in
Houten;  ’t Amsterdammertje , in Loenen aan de Vecht;   De
Burgemeester , in Montfoort in Linschoten;  One , in Roermond;  La
Trinite , in Sluis; and  De Groene Lantaarn , in Zuidwolde.
 Apicius , in Castricum, lost its second star.  “Restaurants anywhere around the world that are being
considered for stars are judged on the same five criteria:
product quality; preparation and flavors; the chef’s personality
as revealed through his or her cuisine; value for money; and
consistency over time and across the entire menu,” Michelin
said today in an e-mailed news release.  Michelin & Cie.,  based in Clermont-Ferrand, France, is the
world’s second-biggest tiremaker. The company produced its first
so-called Red Guide at the turn of the 20th century to encourage
motoring. Two stars denote excellent cooking, worth a detour.  The Netherlands has two restaurants with a maximum three
stars: Oud Sluis, in Sluis; and De Librije, in Zwolle. Thirteen
establishments have two stars, including Ciel Bleu and Ron
Blaauw in the Amsterdam area. About 83 have a single star.  New winners of the Bib Gourmand in Amsterdam are Lastage
and  Le Hollandais . Gorgeous loses its award. The Bib signifies a
delicious meal can be had for less than 35 euros ($48).  ( Richard Vines  is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Richard Vines  in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or Richardvines on
 http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 