-- Microsoft Record-Low Coupon Punishes Investors: Credit Markets
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2010-11-23T18:12:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/microsoft-s-record-low-coupon-fed-spark-buyers-strike-credit-markets.html
Investors that helped companies from
 Microsoft Corp.  to  Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  sell bonds at record-low
borrowing costs are being punished on concern Federal Reserve
efforts to stave off deflation will drive up yields.  “You kind of have come up to a buyers’ strike or buyers’
sensitivity,” in terms of low-coupon debt, said  Thomas Chow , a
money manager at Philadelphia-based Delaware Investments, which
oversees $120 billion of fixed-income assets. “Higher yield and
higher coupons offer some protection from rising rates.”  Debt from Wal-Mart, Microsoft and Coca-Cola Co. sold in the
past two months with relative yields as low as 25 basis points
is trailing investment-grade credit that pays an average spread
of 175 basis points. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is urging
investors to buy bonds with spreads at least 200 basis points
above U.S. Treasuries as the Fed seeks to purchase $600 billion
of government debt to avert deflation and expand the economy.  Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft’s $1 billion of 10-
year, 3 percent notes have fallen 1.95 cents on the dollar from
their Sept. 22 issue to 97.19 cents as of Nov. 18, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority. The 2 percent loss on the top-ranked debt
compares with a 0.2 percent decline for investment-grade bonds
since Sept. 23, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  Buying Opportunity  Price declines in the bonds of some of the world’s highest-
rated companies are an opportunity to buy the securities as a
hedge against contagion from Europe’s debt crisis, which may
weaken the Treasury market, said  Jason Weiner , a senior fixed-
income fund manager in Milwaukee at M&I Investment Management
Corp.  “At some point, what’s going on in Ireland, Greece,
Portugal and other sovereign-risk countries out there could
infect the U.S. Treasury market on the basis we issued too much
debt and we’re no longer a safe haven,” he said.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own company bonds instead of similar-maturity
government debt rose 1 basis point to 166 basis points, or 1.66
percentage point, down from this year’s high of 201 basis points
on June 11, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global
Broad Market Corporate Index. Yields averaged 3.63 percent.  Relative yields on U.S. investment-grade bonds were
unchanged yesterday at 175 basis points, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s U.S. Corporate Master Index. Spreads
have declined 2 basis points this month.  Default Swaps Rise  The cost of protecting bonds from default in the U.S. rose
for a second day to the highest level in a week. The Markit CDX
North America Investment Grade Index, which investors use to
hedge against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, increased 2.8 basis points to a mid-price of
93.8 basis points as of 12:56 p.m. in New York, according to
index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  The index, which typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves, ended Nov. 19 at 89.8
basis points. Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a
borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the
defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Performance Food Group Co. , the food distributor owned by
Blackstone Group LP, pulled its proposed $550 million note sale
citing “adverse market conditions,” according to a person
familiar with the transaction. The company was marketing seven-
year notes, said the person, who declined to be identified
citing lack of authorization to speak publicly.  National Amusements  National Amusements Inc., the movie theater company
controlled by  Sumner Redstone , plans to sell $390 million of
seven-year senior secured notes, according to a person familiar
with the transaction. The debt may be issued as soon as next
week, said the person, who declined to be identified because
terms aren’t set. The bonds may be sold through the company’s
NAI Entertainment Holdings LLC unit with proceeds used to
refinance a credit facility, the person said.  Since July, companies from McDonald’s Corp., the world’s
largest restaurant chain, to drugmaker Johnson & Johnson, sold
debt at record low borrowing costs as investors priced in a
slower economic recovery and the Fed held interest rates near
zero.  Microsoft, rated Aaa by Moody’s Investors Service and AAA
by S&P, obtained the second-lowest borrowing costs for 10-year
debt, after Johnson & Johnson and Colgate-Palmolive Co.,
Bloomberg data show. Investor demand and record-low yields on
investment-grade debt helped the world’s largest software maker
issue the securities in its second bond offering.  Wal-Mart  Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer, sold $750 million
of 0.75 percent bonds on Oct. 18 at the lowest borrowing cost
for three-year notes, according to Bank of America Corp., which
helped manage the offering. The notes lost 0.41 cent on the
dollar to trade at 99.24 cents as of Nov. 18, Trace data show.  Their 0.4 percent decline since they were sold compares
with the 0.02 percent gain on investment-grade corporate bonds
due in one to three years, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data show.  Bonds with low coupons are suffering because too many hedge
funds and “fast-money flippers” purchased the securities,
instead of investors who typically buy and hold the debt, said
 Tim Doubek , a portfolio manager who helps oversee more than $22
billion of investment-grade credit at Columbia Management in
Minneapolis.  ‘Lumber Around’  “You’re just finding people want to sell them right around
where they were issued, and they really can’t interest any
buyers because a large portion of the buyer base of that new
issue is trying to do the same thing,” he said. “It’s going to
be one of those markets where the high-quality new issues lumber
around where they came or widen and you’ll see really, really
good deep bids for lower-quality names.”  Spreads in 2011 are likely to tighten most on debt from
high-quality financials, low-quality non-financials and bonds
maturing between five and seven years, Goldman strategists
 Charles Himmelberg ,  Alberto Gallo ,  Lotfi Karoui  and  Annie Chu 
wrote in a Nov. 19 report.  “Our rates team expects long-dated Treasuries to move
higher on economic recovery, both in the U.S. and globally, and
the normalization of U.S. inflation expectations, with yields on
the 10-year rising to 3.3 percent by the end of 2011,” the
strategists wrote. “We expect total returns on tight-spread
credit to underperform accordingly, with high-quality names
suffering the most.”  Coca-Cola Bonds  Coca-Cola’s 0.75 percent, 3-year notes issued on Nov. 4 at
99.953 cents on the dollar, tying Wal-Mart’s record, traded at
99.382 cents as of 12:06 p.m. in New York, Trace data show. The
$1.25 billion of debt from the world’s largest soft-drink maker
has lost 0.8 percent since issue, compared with the 0.28 percent
decline on investment-grade corporate bonds due between one and
three years during the same period, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data show.  Weiner, whose firm oversees about $32 billion, including
the Microsoft securities issued in September, says he will
consider purchasing some of the low-coupon debt from companies
such as International Business Machines Corp. of Armonk, New
York, and Microsoft, if they continue to decline.  “People are willing to buy IBM and Microsoft and other
corporations that have really solid balance sheets and adds
diversification away from Treasuries,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sapna Maheshwari  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein in New York at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  