-- AC Milan, Marseille Advance to Champions League Round of 16; Arsenal Loses
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2010-11-23T23:16:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/milan-marseille-advance-in-champions-league-arsenal-loses.html
AC Milan and Marseille won and
qualified for the round of 16 in soccer’s Champions League.
Arsenal lost 2-0 to Braga and failed to clinch a spot in
the next round.  AC Milan won 2-0 against Auxerre and Marseille beat
Spartak Moscow 3-0 last night to secure their spots in the
next round of Europe’s top club competition.  Braga kept its hopes of advancing alive with the win
over Arsenal, which needed a tie to move on, while Shakhtar
Donetsk, Roma and Basel also remained in contention.
Chelsea and Real Madrid, which already had qualified for
the last 16, also won.  The top two teams in each of the eight four-team
groups progress to the knockout stage.  AC Milan scored twice in the second half in France to
qualify from Group G.  Zlatan Ibrahimovic  opened the scoring
for the seven-time European champions and  Ronaldinho 
clinched the victory in stoppage time.  The win ensures Milan of finishing second in the group
to Real Madrid, which routed Ajax 4-0.  Cristiano Ronaldo  scored twice and  Karim Benzema  and
 Alvaro Arbeloa  had one goal each for Madrid. The nine-time
champions finished with nine men after  Xabi Alonso  and
 Sergio Ramos  received their second yellow cards in the
final minutes for wasting time.  Marseille’s victory in Moscow sent it into the final
16 for the first time since winning the title in 1993.
Mathieu Valbuena, Loic Remy and Brandao scored the goals as
Marseille joined Chelsea in advancing from Group F.  Five Wins  Chelsea made it five wins in five games by rallying to
beat Zilina 2-1 in London.  Daniel Sturridge  and  Florent Malouda  scored second-half goals for the Blues to cancel
out a goal from Babatounde Bello.  Shakhtar Donetsk, Arsenal and Braga all remain in the
chase from Group H heading into the final matches.  Taras Stepanenko, Jadson Rodriguez and  Eduardo da Silva  scored as Shakhtar took the group lead with 12 points
by beating Partizan Belgrade 3-0.  Brazilian striker Matheus scored twice in the second
half as Braga beat Arsenal to leave the teams tied with
nine points. Referee Viktor Kassai earlier denied Arsenal a
penalty after  Carlos Vela  was tripped by Alberto Rodriguez,
giving Vela a yellow card instead for diving.  Arsenal will host Partizan and Braga visits Shakhtar
in the final Group H games on Dec. 8.  Francesco Totti ’s late penalty kick capped a second-
half comeback as Roma won 3-2 at home against Bayern
Munich, which already has qualified for the next round.  Roma’s Comeback  Mario Gomez  scored twice to give Bayern a 2-0 halftime
lead before Marco Borriello scored just after the break.
 Daniele De Rossi  tied the game with nine minutes remaining
and Totti won it three minutes later after Borriello was
taken down by goalkeeper Thomas Kraft.  Bayern leads the group with 12 points, three more than
Roma. Basel is third with six points after beating Cluj 1-0
and meets Bayern in its final game.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  