-- Milbank to Add Ten Lawyers in China for Brazil Deals, Build India Practice
-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 2010-11-23T00:54:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/milbank-to-add-ten-beijing-hong-kong-lawyers-as-china-s-brazil-deals-boom.html
Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy LLP ,
which advised China’s State Grid Corp. on its $1.7 billion
acquisition of Brazilian power lines, said it will add 10
lawyers to its 15 in Beijing and Hong Kong in the next year.  The expansion will partly serve Chinese companies such as
 Cnooc Ltd.  and  China Petrochemical Corp.  that want to invest in
Brazil, said  Mel Immergut , chairman of the New York-based law
firm that announced a new Sao Paulo office in April.  “If you could pick one theme of all the visits that we
made to these big state-owned enterprises, it was Brazil, Brazil,
Brazil,” he said in an interview after a week in China.  China Petrochemical last month agreed to pay $7.1 billion
for 40 percent of  Repsol YPF SA’s Brazil assets . Chinese
companies want to participate in the planned $224 billion of
investments by Brazil’s state-controlled oil producer  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA  to develop new offshore fields, Immergut said.  “Because of the incredible natural resources that there
are in Brazil, but also because of the fact that Brazil is going
to be a huge economic power,” Immergut said, “China wants to
be there at the early stages of Brazil’s burgeoning growth.”  Milbank is also expanding to offer local law advice in Hong
Kong as more companies from around the world list there and as
China’s Hong Kong-listed companies including Cnooc do more deals.  Milbank’s investments in China and Brazil are part of the
firm’s longer-term planning, Immergut said. More than half of
its revenue already has a non-U.S. connection he said, and that
should grow with a larger proportion coming from Asia and Latin
America, he said.  The firm had revenue of $601.5 million in 2009, according
the  American Lawyer .  Immergut, who had also spent a week each in India and
Brazil before visiting China, said that Milbank plans to expand
its India practice group, adding lawyers who would have a 100
percent focus on Indian work.  They would be based in Singapore, London or Hong Kong as
foreign law firms are banned from opening offices in India.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Debra Mao  in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  