-- Time Warner Offers No More Waiting for the Cable Guy
-- B y   K e l l y   R i d d e l l
-- 2010-11-23T15:16:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/time-warner-promises-no-waiting-for-the-cable-guy-for-189-95-a-month.html
Time Warner Cable Inc.  is set to try
a new pitch for customers: No more waiting for the cable guy.  There is a price, however. The second-largest U.S. cable
operator will set a specific service appointment time for
customers who pay $189.95 a month for a new premium package. The
plan, dubbed “Signature Home,” is being tested in Charlotte,
North Carolina, and will roll out nationally within a few weeks,
Chief Executive Officer  Glenn Britt  said in an interview.  Time Warner Cable plans to introduce several custom bundles
geared at different customer bases within the next two years to
lure and retain subscribers. The premium package includes two
whole-home digital video recorders and wideband Internet, as
well as higher-end service. The company is testing a lower-
priced service called “TV Essentials” in New York City for
$39.99 aimed at economically strapped consumers.  “We’re doing a lot of work segmenting the audience,”
Britt said. “It turns out that there are very distinct segments
of the public, both in terms of usage of the things we sell and
psycho demographics, incomes, what-have-you. If we can put
together packages targeted at those groups we think that we’re
going to be a lot more successful.”  “Signature Home” subscribers will have access to a
personal service adviser 24 hours a day, and specially trained
technicians will make house calls based on reservations at
specific times. Customers typically have three hour windows with
regular  Time Warner Cable packages .  ‘Whiz-Bang Things’  The “Signature Home” DVRs will have a terabyte of
storage, be able to record four high-definition programs
simultaneously and store 150 hours of HD content. The bundle
will include a wireless service that can connect as many as 13
devices, including TVs, DVRs, computers and gaming consoles.  “If this were a BMW this would be the  750 IL , with all the
whiz-bang things,” said Britt. “It’s our package with
everything we have to offer and a different service experience
all wrapped up in one.”  Time Warner Cable lost 155,000 basic video subscribers last
quarter, ending with a total of 12.6 million, primarily because
of a weak economic environment and increased competition from
satellite operators like  DirecTV  and phone companies including
 Verizon Communications Inc.  and AT&T Inc.  “You’re going to see us more and more carving out an
identity that’s going to be different from an AT&T and
Verizon,” Britt said. “Not a one-size-fits all model.”  Time Warner Cable  fell  61 cents to $61.75 at 10:13 a.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares had gained
51 percent this year before today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kelly Riddell  in Washington at 
 kriddell1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 