-- IMF's Lipsky Says Portugal Hasn't Sought Financial Aid, Facilities Exist
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2010-11-23T17:58:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/imf-s-lipsky-says-portugal-hasn-t-sought-financial-aid-facilities-exist.html
John Lipsky , the second-ranking
official at the International Monetary Fund, said facilities
exist to help Portugal in case it seeks aid.  “Portugal has not requested any such support but the
facilities exist if it were to be needed,” Lipsky said today in
an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance Midday”
with Tom Keene. He said the IMF is in regular contact with
Portugal as with other members.  Ireland  is in negotiations with the European Union and the
IMF after the country’s property crash threatened to topple the
banking system. Even though EU leaders say Ireland’s bailout
will stem contagion in the euro region, investors are turning
their attention to the high budget-deficit nations of southern
Europe, led by Portugal.  Lipsky said Spain is a “much larger” country and a
“significant” economy that has taken “significant action
already” to improve its banking system and fiscal situation.  Ireland’s Nov. 21 decision to request emergency aid from
the EU and the IMF fueled a surge in Spain and Portugal’s
borrowing costs. The extra yield demanded to hold Portuguese 10-
year debt rather than German bunds rose 27 basis points today to
434. The Spanish  spread  with Germany climbed 27 basis points to
236, a euro-era record. Irish bonds also dropped today.  Rhetoric, Ireland  “Rhetoric alone is not going to solve the problems of
Ireland,” Lipsky said as talks continue. He said the Irish
crisis is “small and containable” relative to the size of the
European economy.  While the Greek crisis was linked to “serious fiscal
imbalances” and the Irish issues are more linked to the
financial sectors, the “other countries” have been facing a
combination of both, he said.  “So far they have been successful in dealing with them,”
he said, while acknowledging that market pressures continue.  -- With assistance by  Emma Ross-Thomas  in Madrid. Editors:  Kevin Costelloe ,  Christopher Wellisz   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sandrine Rastello  in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  