-- Incomes Signal U.S. Jobs, Spending May Accelerate
-- B y   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n
-- 2010-11-23T19:47:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/incomes-signal-u-s-creating-more-jobs-spending-may-accelerate.html
Wages and salaries in the second
quarter climbed almost twice as much as previously estimated,
indicating the U.S. economy may have created more jobs.  Pay  jumped  by $97.4 billion at an annual pace from the
first quarter, up from a previously reported $51.1 billion gain,
revised figures from the Commerce Department showed today in
Washington. The data reflect a more comprehensive accounting of
employment and earnings than was available to the Labor
Department in tabulating the monthly job count.  “There was a little more hiring than the monthly payroll
surveys certainly suggested,”  Stephen Stanley , chief economist
at Pierpont Securities LLC in Stamford, Connecticut, said in an
interview. While bonus payments may have been responsible for
similar revisions in previous years, reflecting the financial
industry’s “heyday,” the improvement now is probably due
instead to bigger gains in overall employment, said Stanley.  Today’s Commerce Department report also showed a bigger
increase in consumer spending last quarter than previously
estimated, even as  savings  were also revised up, showing how
income gains are helping households repair tattered finances.
 Hewlett-Packard Co.  is among companies saying they are planning
to boost pay, while Citigroup Inc. is among those saying it’ll
add more workers.  Households’ need to rebuild savings “is further along than
we thought it was,” said Stanley. “I see consumer spending
healthier next year than this year.”  Wages Climb  Wages increased by another $51.4 billion from July through
September, capping a 2.8 percent gain over the past four
quarters and marking the best year-over-year performance since
mid 2008.  Consumer spending , which accounts for about 70 percent
of the economy, advanced at a 2.8 percent annual pace, the most
in almost four years, today’s report showed.  The savings rate, or the share of disposable incomes
households were able to sock away, climbed to 6.2 percent in the
second quarter and was 5.8 percent in the July to September
period, today’s report showed. The data was revised up from
prior estimates of 5.9 percent and 5.5 percent respectively.  “We’re building a good track for 2011,”  Joseph LaVorgna, 
chief economist at Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. in New York,
said in an interview. “Corporate profits have been pointing to
a stronger labor market than what we’ve seen at this point.
Eventually we’re going to get some stronger numbers.”  Profits rose 2.8 percent last quarter from the previous
three months, and  have been up  each quarter since the first
three months of 2009, today’s Commerce Department data showed.  Holiday Shopping  Retailers are projecting a better holiday shopping period
and also are boosting discounts to bring more consumers to the
stores. The National Retail Federation has forecast November-
December holiday sales will rise by 2.3 percent from a year ago,
the most since 2006.  HP, the world’s largest computer maker, yesterday forecast
profit for the period ending in January that topped analysts’
projections as businesses replace aging personal computers and
other equipment. The firm will reinstitute salary raises in the
current fiscal year, chief executive officer  Leo Apotheker  said.  Employers added 151,000 workers to their payrolls in
October, the first rise in five months, the Labor Department
reported this month. Measures of hours worked and wages also
increased. The government will release its November report next
week.  Quarter Census  Today’s income revisions are derived from a quarterly
census of employment and wages based in tax records that cover
almost all employers, making them a more accurate depiction of
what’s happening in the labor market. The monthly payrolls
numbers are based on a survey of about 140,000 businesses
covering 410,000 worksites that account for about one-third of
total payrolls.  Not all economists were optimistic about the gain in
incomes. With companies unable to raise prices and households
still needing to repair their balance sheets, firms will want to
control their costs and limit hiring, said  Joshua Shapiro , chief
U.S. economist at MFR Inc. in New York.  “Companies are going to do their best to minimize labor-
cost increases,” Shapiro said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington at 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  