-- India May Lift Cotton-Export Limit on Record Crop
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2010-11-26T13:53:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/india-may-boost-limit-on-exports-as-crop-surges-27-to-record-group-says.html
India, the second-biggest cotton
producer and exporter, may boost its limit on shipments to
foreign buyers as domestic output jumps 21 percent to the
highest ever, an association of growers and traders said.  “Everything points to the government raising the export
quota when they assess the crop situation in December,” Nayan
Mirani, a vice president of Cotton Association of India, said
today in a telephone interview from Mumbai.  Production in the year that began last month may reach a
record 35.7 million bales, above the association’s September
estimate of 34.5 million and last year’s output of 29.5 million,
he said. Demand from domestic textile mills may total 26.6
million bales, according to the group.  Increased exports from India may further erode gains in
cotton prices, which surged this year after adverse weather
damaged crops in China, Pakistan and the U.S. Cotton futures in
New York have plunged 26 percent since touching a record $1.5195
a pound on Nov. 10.  “With expectations of higher output, one could expect the
government to announce an increase in the export quota,” said
 Mike Stevens , an independent trader in Mandeville, Louisiana.  Export Limits  India on Sept. 4 said it would limit cotton exports to 5.5
million bales in the year beginning Oct. 1 in a bid to meet
domestic demand. The textiles ministry halted registration of
new export contracts on Oct. 11 when applications reached the
specified limit. Louis Dreyfus Commodities, the top cotton
trader, and Cargill Inc. are among the companies that won
permits.  The 5.5 million-bale limit may be reviewed in December,
Farm Minister  Sharad Pawar  said Oct. 20.  The government is planning to wait until next month for the
review because by then the harvest and ginning will be well
under way, Mirani said. He had earlier expected an assessment to
be made this month.  The Cotton Association of India represents about 400
growers, ginners and traders.  Olam International Ltd. said shipments from India may not
will the December quota set by the government because some
exporters failed to secure supplies amid lower arrivals and
record prices.  Exports may be 2 million bales, less than half the
permitted quota to be shipped by Dec. 15, said Unupom Kausik,
the head of the cotton business at Olam Agro India Ltd., a unit
of one of the world’s three largest suppliers.  Futures for March delivery fell by the 6-cent exchange
limit, or 5.1 percent, to settle at $1.1179 a pound at 2:44 p.m.
on ICE Futures U.S. in New York.  An Indian bale weighs 170 kilograms (375 pounds).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Debarati Roy  in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 