-- Inside the Wealth Conspiracy: Jacob Hacker and Paul Pierson
-- B y   J a c o b   S .   H a c k e r   a n d   P a u l   P i e r s o n
-- 2010-11-23T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/inside-the-wealth-conspiracy-jacob-hacker-and-paul-pierson.html
Four years ago, then-Treasury
Secretary  Henry Paulson  took a moment from his economic
cheerleading to acknowledge that, yes, economic inequality had
risen.  Over the previous three decades, the share of pretax
national income raked in by the richest 0.1 percent of Americans
had more than quadrupled. By the time Paulson spoke, this tiny
upper-crust of American households (average 2007 income: $7
million) brought home about $1 of every $8 earned in the U.S.  Paulson expressed concern about the trend. Yet his basic
message was that Americans should get used to it. Growing
inequality, he declared, “is simply an economic reality, and it
is neither fair nor useful to blame any political party.”  Today, the gap between hardship on Main Street and profits
on  Wall Street  is even more undeniable. Paulson’s view, though,
is as widespread among the prosperous and powerful as ever. We
hear again and again that those at the top are simply
superstars, empowered by technological change and globalization
to make vast fortunes. Public policy or partisan positions, in
this common perspective, have little or nothing to do with it.  The truth is, politicians in Washington haven’t been
innocent bystanders in our steady march toward a much more
unequal society. For 30 years, rising campaign costs and an
explosion of lobbying activity made politicians from both
parties more attentive to the concerns of those at the top of
the economic ladder. The response has been a string of political
decisions -- or deliberate failures to act -- that have abetted
the shift of rewards to the upper rungs of the economic ladder.  Listening to Bankers  Paulson, in fact, provides a big clue about what happened.
He, like so many recent prominent economic officials, straddled
the worlds of Wall Street and Washington. President  Barack Obama 
just continued this well-established practice by appointing
financier  Roger Altman  to succeed  Larry Summers  as the head of
his National Economic Council.  Under Republicans and Democrats alike -- enthusiastically
in the former case, more ambivalently in the latter --  Wall
Street received an sympathetic ear, even though its practices
were enriching just a tiny slice of Americans and posed real
risks to the economy as a whole.  Supporting the high fliers of finance was only one part of
what American politicians did to build a winner-take-all
economy. They also delivered repeated tax cuts that were
exquisitely targeted at the most well-to-do, economic smart-
bombs that showered cash on a select few. The effective tax
rates of the richest taxpayers -- that is, the amount they
actually pay -- plummeted from the late 1970s through the early
2000s.  Quiet Power  At other times Washington was a silent partner, sitting on
its hands while economic changes rendered existing rules
obsolete. New technologies and business models allowed bankers
to outflank restrictions on their practices. Increasing capital
mobility and regulatory passivity let corporations push out
unions. As the foundations of broad-based postwar prosperity
crumbled, powerful organizations urged Washington to do nothing,
and Washington complied.  Mark Twain  once quipped that “everyone complains about the
weather but nobody does anything about it.” Many analysts would
have us view the dramatic increase in inequality with a similar
spirit -- as a natural condition that we should accept without
complaint. We should be skeptical of this view -- and not just
because it’s obsolete even with regard to the weather.  Inequality Isn’t Inevitable  We should be skeptical because government policies don’t
just reallocate income after the fact; they also shape how
markets distribute the rewards. We should be skeptical because
globalization and technological change, while creating pressures
for inequality, don’t dictate economic outcomes.  Other prosperous economies that are as globalized and
networked as we are have seen limited growth in inequality.
Moreover, where such tendencies have emerged, their political
systems have pushed back. It is the U.S. that stands out as an
exception, as it moves closer to the distributional structure
characteristic of economic oligarchies such as Russia, Mexico or
Brazil.  The relevance of Washington to growing inequality is bad
news for now. Newly empowered Republicans still push an agenda
of deregulation, social-spending cuts, and high-income tax cuts
that will promote rather than challenge this trend. Recently,
Republican Senator-Elect  Rand Paul  took Paulson’s stance a
dramatic step further, responding to a question about inequality
by insisting “there are no rich…there are no poor.” Chastened
Democrats are unable or unwilling to put up much resistance.
Instead, they seem eager to offer an olive branch or two to the
winners in our winner-take-all economy.  In the long-run, though, the relevance of Washington is
good news for those who view the trends of the past generation
with concern. What happens in our politics matters a lot for how
our economy operates, and for how its rewards and burdens are
divided. Washington helped build an economy that showers so much
on so few. It could help build an economy of shared prosperity
as well.  ( Jacob Hacker  is a professor of political science at Yale
University.  Paul Pierson  is a professor of political science at
the University of California at Berkeley. They are the co-
authors of “Winner-Take-All Politics: How Washington Made the
Rich Richer -- and Turned Its Back on the Middle Class.” The
opinions expressed are their own.)  To contact the writers of this column:
Jacob Hacker at  jacob.hacker@yale.edu  and
Paul Pierson at  pierson@berkeley.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  