-- Ireland Said to Require 85 Billion Euros for Rescue
-- B y   J o h n   F r a h e r
-- 2010-11-23T22:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/ireland-is-said-to-need-about-114-billion-to-rescue-its-banks-government.html
European Union officials estimate
that a rescue package for  Ireland  may amount to about 85 billion
euros ($114 billion), according to two officials familiar with
the talks.  The European Commission cited the figure as a preliminary
estimate on a conference call of euro-region finance ministers
on Nov. 21, said the people, who spoke on condition of anonymity
because the talks were private. Of the total, 35 billion euros
would be earmarked for banks and 50 billion euros to help
finance the Irish government.  Contagion is spreading through the euro region as Ireland
hammers out an aid package with the EU and the International
Monetary Fund to rescue its banking system. Spanish  bonds 
tumbled, pushing the extra yield that investors demand to hold
its 10-year debt over German bunds to a euro-era record of 236
basis points. Irish bonds also dropped today.  “The markets currently have virtually zero confidence that
the bailout in Ireland will solve the European crisis,”  Charles Diebel  and  David Page , fixed-income strategists at Lloyds TSB
Corporate Markets in London, wrote in a note today. “With
markets effectively in a position to dictate policy, the risk is
that the credibility crisis shifts to more sizeable EU countries
and thereby poses a greater risk to the system as a whole.”  The euro dropped 1.8 percent to $1.338 as of 4:25 p.m. in
London. The yield on Ireland’s 10-year bond rose 33 basis points
to 8.644 basis points. It was at 8.347 percent on Nov. 19,
before the bailout was announced.  Estimates Vary  Economists’ estimates on the size of Ireland’s bailout have
varied. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. says Ireland may ask for about
95 billion euros. UniCredit SA put the package at as much as 85
billion euros, while Deutsche Bank AG sees a 90 billion-euro
plan.  “The overall figure is linked to the outcome of the
current discussions on the three-year EU-IMF program, which
includes also potential capital needs for the banking sector,”
 Amadeu Altafaj , spokesman for EU Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn , said by telephone in Brussels.  Allied Irish Banks Plc may be 99.9 percent state controlled
after the government uses external aid to boost its capital
levels, and Bank of Ireland Plc may be majority state controlled
after the injection, RTE said today, without citing anyone.  Irish lenders core tier 1 capital level may be raised to 12
percent from 8 percent, according to the broadcaster.  The government may seek to share losses with Allied Irish’s
subordinated bondholders, though senior debt would be honored,
RTE also said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Fraher  at  jfraher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  