-- Ireland to Borrow From EU Fund at a Rate Similar to Greece, De Jager Says
-- B y   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l
-- 2010-11-23T10:54:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/ireland-to-borrow-from-eu-fund-at-a-rate-similar-to-greece-de-jager-says.html
Ireland will pay about the same
interest rate on emergency loans from the European Union as
Greece, Dutch Finance Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  said.  “We agreed that it will take place at about the same
conditions and pricing as with Greece,” De Jager said in an
interview at the ministry in The Hague yesterday. Ireland will
have to pay interest of “about” five percent on the emergency
loans, he said.  Ireland on Nov. 21 applied for a bailout from the EU’s
European Financial Stability Facility and the International
Monetary Fund to help fund itself and save its banks, becoming
the second euro member to seek a rescue after Greece. European
officials are assessing how much financing Ireland needs and for
how long, and De Jager said that after three years, Ireland will
have to pay an extra percentage point in interest costs.  “This is the first country that calls upon the EFSF
mechanism, of course I can’t rule out that another country will
make use of it because it wasn’t created without a reason,” De
Jager said. “We are prepared to assist financially through the
EFSF,” and “if we hadn’t done this, a very dark scenario could
have developed in the euro zone.”  The EFSF was created this year to halt the spread of the
Greek debt crisis and EU authorities pushed Ireland to seek aid
after its borrowing costs soared to a record.  Investors may turn their focus from Ireland to the high
budget-deficit nations of southern Europe, led by Portugal. The
 extra yield  demanded to hold Portuguese 10-year debt rather than
German bunds rose 12 basis points to 419 basis points today. The
Spanish yield spread rose 8 basis points to 217.  “The EFSF is ready and can be activated, so I expect that
if another country runs into trouble and requests assistance,
we’ll be able to act very quickly,” De Jager, 41, said. The
Dutch parliament won’t have to approve the Irish aid, he said.  The European aid mechanism is part of a 750 billion-euro
package, which includes 60 billion euros from the European
Commission -- the EU’s executive arm -- and 250 billion euros
from the International Monetary Fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jurjen van de Pol  in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net . 