-- Irish Rescue Accord Turns Investors' Focus to Spain, Portugal: Euro Credit
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2010-11-23T16:37:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/irish-rescue-plan-turns-investors-focus-to-southern-europe-euro-credit.html
Ireland’s plan to seek a European
rescue risks escalating, rather than alleviating, the sovereign
debt crisis as investors turn their focus to the high budget-
deficit nations of southern Europe, led by Portugal.  Ireland’s Nov. 21 decision to request emergency aid from
the European Union and the International Monetary Fund fueled a
surge in Spain and Portugal’s borrowing costs. The  extra yield 
demanded to hold Portuguese 10-year debt rather than German
bunds rose 27 basis points today to 434. The Spanish spread with
Germany climbed 27 basis points to 236, a euro-era record, after
the Treasury sold 3.26 billion euros ($4.4 billion) of bills.
That was less than the maximum target.  Even as EU leaders said Ireland’s bailout will stem
contagion in the euro region, investors are turning their
attention to Portugal, which hasn’t cut government spending and
has barely grown for a decade. A rescue of Portugal may increase
pressure on its high budget-deficit neighbor Spain, whose gross
domestic product is almost twice the size of Portugal, Greece
and Ireland combined.  After Portugal “the next question would be Spain and then
Italy and then France and then the EU,” said  Antonio Garcia Pascual , chief southern European economist at Barclays Capital
in London. “Spain is a bit too big to be bailed out, the size
of a rescue required would use up all the funds available and
then you have Italy with contagion as well,” prompting “a
situation where the euro itself is put into question,” he said.  Bonds Decline  Ireland’s 10-year bond plunged today, with the yield rising
34 basis points to 8.64 percent. Portugal’s 10-year yield
increased 24 basis points to 7.05 percent, while Spain’s gained
17 basis points to 4.92 percent.  The Irish rescue, like the Greek plan, would likely involve
three-years of emergency financing, allowing the government to
avoid the soaring borrowing costs being demanded in the markets.
Spain faces more than 150 billion euros in maturing bonds in
that period plus the costs of having to finance the region’s
third-biggest budget deficit. Bailing out Spain would strain the
750 billion-euro financial lifeline set up by the EU and the IMF
to protect the region after Greece’s near default.  “The Portuguese and the Spanish are trying to distance
themselves” from Ireland,  Jim O’Neill , chairman of Goldman
Sachs Asset Management, said in an interview with  Deirdre Bolton 
and  Erik Schatzker  on Bloomberg Television’s “Inside Track”
today. “I’m not sure how we can put this one to bed. We’ve got
some fundamental problems” with the euro area, he said.  Liquidity Assault  DeAnne Julius , a former Bank of England policy maker who is
now chairman of Chatham House, a U.K.-based research group, said
investors are likely to switch their focus to the Mediterranean.  “I think that we’re likely to see that liquidity assault
shift from Ireland to Portugal,” she said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television today. “The real issue will be if it then
moves on to Spain, which is of course is a more economically
weighty country within the euro zone.”  Ireland became the first euro country to move to tap that
rescue fund as the cost of salvaging banks hit by the collapse
of a property boom threatened a rerun of the Greek debt crisis
that destabilized the currency in April and May. The government
hasn’t given figures on the size of the package, which Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. estimates may amount to 95 billion euros.  Amid increasing concerns over implementation of the rescue,
Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  said last night he would seek
national elections early next year after his government passes
its 2011 budget. The announcement came hours after the Green
Party said it would pull out of the ruling coalition following
the budget vote. The group said Cowen has misled voters in
negotiating the bailout.  ‘Substantial Risk’  There’s a “substantial risk” that Portugal will have to
follow Ireland into a European rescue, said  Ralph Solveen , an
economist at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “They have problems
to reach their deficit goal this year, they have big structural
problems and therefore they will still be in the focus of the
market.”  Portugal’s debt amounts to 76 percent of gross domestic
product, compared with 53 percent in Spain, 66 percent in
Ireland and 116 percent in Italy last year. Spending by the
Portuguese government, which lacks a parliamentary majority,
continued to grow in the first 10 months of 2010, Finance
Minister  Fernando Teixeira  dos Santos said on Nov. 17.  The country has pledged to cut its  deficit  to 7.3 percent
of GDP this year and 4.6 percent in 2011, compared with last
year’s 9.3 percent, the fourth-largest shortfall in the euro
region.  ‘Inevitable’  It is “inevitable” that Portugal will seek help, said
 Stuart Thomson , who helps manage $110 billion at Ignis Asset
Management in Glasgow. Royal Bank of Canada Europe Ltd. said it
expects Portugal to request aid in the first quarter of 2011 at
“the latest.”  That inevitability in the minds of investors was reflected
in the rising cost of insuring against a Portuguese default.
Credit-default swaps tied to Portuguese debt jumped 28.5 basis
points today to 486, according to data provider CMA in London
and Spain rose 17.5 basis points to 299.25.  The run up to Ireland’s decision to seek aid did trigger a
slide in its borrowing costs, indicating investors may get
burned betting against bonds of so-called peripheral markets.
said  Gilles Moec , an economist at Deutsche Bank AG in London.
The Irish spread over Germany narrowed about 100 basis points
since the Nov. 11 euro-era record of 652.4.  “For the market it’s no longer a one-way bet,” he said.
“If the market pushes another country more and more, and the
next in line is of course Portugal, you never know at what point
the rescue is going to be triggered, and once the rescue is
triggered, long-term interest rates fall.”  ‘Very Different’  Angel Gurria , the head of the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development said yesterday bank failures in
Ireland had “nothing to do with Portugal” and that contagion
“should not happen.” As the European Commission said the Irish
plan was meant to stop contagion, Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said Portugal’s economic problems are
“very different” to those of Ireland and its government has
taken “bold decisions” on the deficit.  Still, fallout from Greece’s near default didn’t end with
that country’s bailout in May. The yield premium on Irish debt
has more than doubled since then. Portugal’s spread has doubled.  “The comments from Rehn are pure comedy,” Ignis’s Thomson
said. “He said exactly the same about Ireland a few weeks
ago.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma Ross-Thomas  in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  