-- Israel Evicts Palestinian Family From East Jerusalem Home Bought by Jews
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2010-11-23T17:39:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/israel-evicts-palestinian-family-from-east-jerusalem-home-bought-by-jews.html
A Palestinian family was evicted
from its east Jerusalem home after an Israeli court rejected
challenges over the property’s sale to a Jewish buyer.  About 80 police officers surrounded the building today in
east Jerusalem’s Jebel Mukaber section as members of the Kara’in
family were presented with an eviction notice, police spokesman
 Micky Rosenfeld  said. The home is in the predominantly Arab area
captured by Israel in the 1967 Middle East war, where
Palestinians hope to establish the capital of a future state.  “The court ruled that the property was legitimately sold
to a Jewish family,” Rosenfeld said in a phone interview. “The
Arab family left the house on its own and there was no violence
or arrests.”  Jewish organizations such as Ateret Cohanim and the El Ad
Group have been buying Arab properties in east Jerusalem for
decades. About 200,000 Jews live in east Jerusalem, which Israel
considers part of its capital, together with the western section
of the city. That position was rejected by the United Nations
Security Council. Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas 
said Nov. 21 that he won’t accept any U.S. proposal seeking to
resume peace talks with Israel if it doesn’t include a freeze on
construction of Jewish homes in east Jerusalem.  Israeli lawmakers yesterday approved legislation requiring
a national referendum on any peace agreement that calls for
withdrawal from east Jerusalem or the Golan Heights and doesn’t
win a two-thirds majority in parliament.  The Kara’in family lost its court challenge to hold on to
the house after arguing that the sale to a relative who died
three months ago was invalid, according to Assaf Sharon, an
Israeli member of the Sheikh Jarrah Solidarity Movement, who was
at the site today. The group was formed to assist families that
have been evicted from Sheikh Jarrah, Silwan and other Arab
neighborhoods in east Jerusalem.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Ferziger  in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ; 