-- Fondiaria, Premafin Shares Decline in Milan After Approving Rights Offers
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2010-11-23T13:39:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/italy-s-fondiaria-approves-623-million-share-sale-after-quarterly-loss.html
Fondiaria-Sai SpA , Italy’s second-
biggest insurer, slid to its lowest price in more than 20 years
in Milan trading, while its parent company dropped as much as
5.4 percent after both firms approved plans to raise capital.  Fondiaria declined 3.7 percent at 6.10 euros as of 2 p.m.
local time, giving the company a market value of about 916
million euros ($1.2 billion).  Premafin Finanziaria SpA Holding
di Partecipazioni , which controls the insurer, dropped 3.8
percent to 81.4 cents, the lowest price since September.  Fondiaria aims to raise as much as 460 million euros by
selling new common and savings shares to existing shareholders,
the Florence-based company said in a statement late yesterday.
“The subscription price will be based on market conditions at
the time of the offer,” it said.  Chief Executive Officer  Fausto Marchionni  said Nov. 10 that
Fondiaria was considering a capital increase and asset sales
after the company posted its  fifth consecutive quarterly loss .
Fondiaria’s net loss widened to 201 million euros in the third
quarter from 24 million euros a year earlier on lower income
from investments and increased writedowns. Fondiaria gets most
of its revenue from property and casualty insurance.  Separately, Premafin’s board approved a rights offer of
225.7 million euros after reaching an underwriting agreement
with banks. Both offers will be backed by Credit Suisse Group
AG, Premafin and Fondiaria said.  ‘Market Instability’  Pricing for Premafin shares will be set at a later date,
the company said, citing “market instability.” The firm had
previously indicated a price of 1.10 euros a share. Premafin has
modified the deal terms, including withdrawing the offer price,
“to complete the sale in a shorter period of time,” Chairwoman
 Maria Giulia Ligresti  said in a separate statement. The company
is controlled by the Ligresti family.  Premafin also confirmed an agreement to sell a 17 percent
stake through the offering to France’s Groupama SA. Groupama has
agreed not to make bids for Premafin, Fondiaria and the latter’s
insurance unit Milano Assicurazioni. Analysts including
 Massimiliano Romano , head of research at Concentric Italy in
Milan, have said they are concerned the transaction may breach
the rules of Italy’s market regulator, which could request an
offer for the whole company.  “The large premium paid by Groupama to the Ligresti family
for the rights to subscribe to the new shares makes it more
likely that Consob will ask it to launch a tender offer and in
that case the deal won’t be finalized, as agreed by Ligresti and
Groupama,” Fidentiis Equities SV SA wrote in a report to
clients today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sonia Sirletti  in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  