-- J. Crew Said to Be Near $3 Billion Buyout Led by TPG Capital
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2010-11-23T14:35:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/j-crew-is-said-to-be-near-3-billion-sale-to-tpg-capital-leonard-green.html
J. Crew Group Inc. , the New York
clothing retailer, is close to an agreement to be bought by TPG
Capital and  Leonard Green  & Partners for about $2.8 billion in
cash, according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  The price would be $43.50 a share, or 16 percent more than
J. Crew’s closing  price  yesterday, said the people, who declined
to be identified because the matter is private. That compares
with an average premium of about 15 percent in the U.S. apparel
industry since 2005, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  TPG, a former owner of the retailer, and Leonard Green
would work with Chief Executive Officer Millard “Mickey”
Drexler, the people said. Drexler may be looking to go private
as J. Crew adapts to changing consumers’ tastes and deals with
inventory that isn’t selling well, said Nathan Brown, an analyst
at J. Crew shareholder Waddell & Reed Financial Inc.  “You’ve got too much of the wrong stuff and the stuff is
still coming in,” said the Overland Park, Kansas-based analyst,
whose firm owned more than 760,000 shares as of Sept. 30. “Over
the next couple of quarters, the results at J. Crew have the
ability to be somewhat sloppy.”  J. Crew lowered its full-year earnings  forecast  in August,
citing “economic uncertainty.” It has been expanding with
specialty boutiques in Manhattan and a bridal line.  The clothier’s  stock  rose as much as 22 percent at 7:45
a.m. in early trading before being halted this morning, after
closing at $37.65 yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange. J.
Crew, whose clothing has been worn by first lady  Michelle Obama ,
had  dropped  16 percent this year before today.  Drexler’s History  Heather McAuliffe , a spokeswoman for  J. Crew , declined to
comment. Drexler also didn’t respond to an e-mail. The buyout
was reported yesterday by the New York Times and the Wall Street
Journal.  J. Crew reported  sales  of $1.58 billion in the year ended
January, twice its  revenue  seven years ago, when Drexler took
over. The company, which operates 250 retail stores under brands
including Madewell and 85 factory outlet locations, is scheduled
to report results today.  The New York Times said yesterday that a deal could still
fall apart because of a disagreement on price, with the parties
initially discussing an offer at about $45 a share. TPG sought
to lower that yesterday, according to the Times.  An agreement with TPG would still allow  J. Crew  to solicit
other bids past the holidays, one of the people said.  The past five years have yielded more than 30 private-
equity deals in the U.S. retail apparel industry, with an
average premium of 14.8 percent. Buyout firm Bain Capital LLC
agreed to pay a premium of 45.9 percent when it announced plans 
to buy children’s retailer Gymboree Corp. last month.  Apparel Deals  Since 2005, at least the top five retail apparel deals in
the U.S. have been done by private-equity firms, led by the $2.8
billion acquisition of Claire’s Stores Inc. by Apollo Global
Management LLC more than three years ago.  “We are going to see more consolidation in the retail
industry, especially in developed markets where there’s a need
to clear excess capacity,”  Bob Parker , senior adviser at Credit
Suisse Group AG, said today. “Strong growth in the future is
going to come from emerging markets.”  TPG Capital previously acquired an 88 percent stake in J.
Crew in 1997, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
retailer held an initial public offering in 2006 after hiring
former Gap CEO Drexler in 2003 to turn the company around.  Investors might not be so willing to approve a sale with
Drexler’s history as a successful merchant at both Gap and J.
Crew, Waddell’s Brown said.  “Private equity needs an exit strategy, so the minute the
fashion gets good again are they going to come back to the
market and sell it?,” Brown said. “Presumably they will want to
sell it at a higher price, which for us as shareholders it would
be great if it’s taken out 15 percent, but if it comes back at a
35 percent premium, we would have preferred to own it during
that appreciation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cristina Alesci  in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  