-- J. Crew Agrees to Be Purchased by TPG, Leonard Green for About $3 Billion
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d   a n d   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2010-11-23T20:42:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/j-crew-agrees-to-be-bought-by-tpg-leonard-green.html
J. Crew Group Inc.  agreed to be
acquired by TPG Capital and  Leonard Green  & Partners in a
transaction valued at about $3 billion, giving the buyout firms
the New York-based retailer’s namesake and Madewell brands.  The price is $43.50 a share, 23 percent higher than the 20-
day average stock price before today. That compares with the 17
percent average premium for U.S. private-equity takeovers of
apparel makers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  TPG, a former owner of the retailer, and Leonard Green will
work with Chief Executive Officer  Millard “Mickey” Drexler ,
they said today in a statement. Drexler may be looking to go
private as J. Crew adapts to changing consumers’ tastes and
deals with inventory that isn’t selling well, said  Nathan Brown ,
an analyst at J. Crew shareholder Waddell & Reed Financial Inc.  “You’ve got too much of the wrong stuff and the stuff is
still coming in,” said the Overland Park, Kansas-based analyst,
whose firm owned more than 760,000 shares as of Sept. 30. “Over
the next couple of quarters, the results at J. Crew have the
ability to be somewhat sloppy.”  The retailer lowered its full-year earnings  forecast  today
for the second time this year. Continued discounting of women’s
apparel that hasn’t sold well will decrease profit margins,
Drexler said on a  conference call . Profit will rise to as much
as $2.13 a share, compared with a previous top end of $2.35.
Full-year earnings in 2009 totaled $1.91 a share.  Sales Decline  The clothier’s  stock  rose $6.26, or 17 percent, to $43.91
at 3:41 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange Composite trading after
earlier being halted. J. Crew, whose clothing has been worn by
first lady  Michelle Obama , had  dropped  16 percent this year
before today.  The buyers are paying 8.1 times J. Crew’s earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization for the past four
quarters, compared with the median multiple of 7.8 times in the
past five years, according to Bloomberg data.  Sales at stores open at least a year fell 1 percent in the
quarter ended Oct. 30, while  net income  sank 14 percent. Same-
store sales may decline by low-single digits in the fourth
quarter, the company said.  “While we work through this short-term hurdle, and we
believe it is short-term, we remain focused on our long-term
strategy and won’t compromise our products or customer
service,” Drexler said.  Until now, J. Crew had weathered the economic turmoil in
the U.S. better than some competitors. For the year ended
January 2010, J. Crew posted a comparable-store sales increase
of 4.1 percent, compared with declines of 18 percent for
 AnnTaylor Stores Corp.  and 9 percent for Banana Republic North
America, owned by  Gap Inc .  Tight Jeans  J. Crew didn’t change its fashion fast enough as it kept
tops over-embellished with ruffles and the fit of its jeans too
tight, said  Laura Champine , an analyst for Cowen & Co. in New
York. She said she realized the company had a problem last month
when it reduced prices on all sweaters by 20 percent.  “I don’t think there is anything broken here,” said
Champine, who has an “outperform” rating on J. Crew shares.
“A lot of LBOs you take them private and really change things
and bring them back public once you fix them. This is the kind
of thing that rights itself by next year.”  Perella Weinberg Partners LP provided financial advice to
J. Crew’s special committee of directors examining the deal,
while Cravath Swaine & Moore LLP gave legal counsel.  Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP is acting as legal
adviser to J. Crew. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Bank of America
Merrill Lynch are giving financial advice to TPG and Leonard
Green. Ropes & Gray LLP is giving legal counsel to TPG, and
Latham & Watkins is doing the same for Leonard Green.  Alternative Bids?  The special committee also will review any alternative bids
through Jan. 15, according to today’s statement.  J. Crew reported  sales  of $1.58 billion in the year ended
January, twice its  revenue  seven years ago, when Drexler took
over. The company operates 250 retail stores under brands
including Madewell and 85 factory outlet locations, as well as
the catalog business.  The company began in 1983 after the mailing of the first
catalog, and J. Crew later opened a store in New York, according
to its website. The retailer debuted the Madewell line, aimed at
women aged 18 to 40, in 2006.  The past five years have yielded more than 30 private-
equity deals in the U.S. retail apparel industry, with an
average premium of 14.8 percent. Buyout firm Bain Capital LLC
agreed to pay a premium of 45.9 percent when it announced plans
to buy children’s retailer  Gymboree Corp . last month.  Apparel Deals  Since 2005, at least the top five retail apparel deals in
the U.S. have been done by private-equity firms, led by the $2.8
billion acquisition of Claire’s Stores Inc. by  Apollo Global
Management LLC  more than three years ago.  “We are going to see more consolidation in the retail
industry, especially in developed markets where there’s a need
to clear excess capacity,”  Bob Parker , senior adviser at Credit
Suisse Group AG, said today. “Strong growth in the future is
going to come from emerging markets.”  TPG Capital previously acquired an 88 percent stake in J.
Crew in 1997, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
retailer held an initial public offering in 2006 after hiring
former Gap CEO Drexler in 2003 to turn the company around.  Investors might not be so willing to approve a sale with
Drexler’s history as a successful merchant at both Gap and J.
Crew, Waddell’s Brown said.  “Private equity needs an exit strategy, so the minute the
fashion gets good again are they going to come back to the
market and sell it?,” Brown said. “Presumably they will want
to sell it at a higher price, which for us as shareholders would
be great if it’s taken out at 15 percent, but if it comes back
at a 35 percent premium, we would have preferred to own it
during that appreciation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matt Townsend  in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Boyle  in New York at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  