-- Johnson & Johnson Recalls Allergy, Pain Medications
-- B y   D a v i d   O l m o s
-- 2010-11-23T21:10:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/j-j-recalls-children-s-benadryl-motrin-from-wholesale-retail-locations.html
Johnson & Johnson , the world’s
biggest health-products maker, recalled about 4 million packages
of Children’s Benadryl allergy tablets and about 800,000 bottles
of junior-strength Motrin caplets, citing manufacturing lapses.  “When the manufacturing process was developed, it was not
done as thoroughly as it should have been,”  Bonnie Jacobs , a
J&J spokeswoman, said in a telephone interview today. “There is
no indication that the product does not meet quality
standards.”  J&J’s McNeil unit withdrew more than 40 types of children’s
over-the-counter liquid medicines in April, forcing a suspension
of production at a manufacturing plant and reducing 2010 sales
about $600 million, the New Brunswick, New Jersey-based company
said in July. The  U.S. House Oversight and Government Reform
Committee  has been investigating J&J’s handling of the recall
and a separate incident involving Motrin tablets.  While the McNeil unit of J&J posted a notice Nov. 15 about
the recall on the Benadryl website, it didn’t issue a press
statement, Jacobs said. The action “is not being taken on the
basis of adverse events,” or safety issues, Jacobs said.  J&J fell 75 cents, or 1.2 percent, to $62.87 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite  trading .  Recall Expanded  In January, J&J pulled 500 lots of drugs, including
Rolaids, Motrin and some types of Tylenol because of possible
contamination from a chemical on shipping and packing materials.
That recall was expanded in June after consumer complaints of a
musty odor and reports of diarrhea, nausea and vomiting after
people used the products.  This month’s recall of Benadryl and Motrin is “has nothing
to do with the subjects of the other recalls,” Jacobs said.  “Consumers can continue to use the product, they don’t
have to take any action,” Jacobs said of the Benadryl and
Motrin recalls. The medicine is being withdrawn from wholesale
and retail locations, she said.  The products being recalled are Children’s Benadryl allergy
Fastmelt tablets, in cherry and grape flavors, and junior-
strength Motrin caplets, 24 count, the company said on its Web
site. The Benadryl tablets were distributed in the U.S., Canada,
Puerto Rico, Belize, Barbados, St. Martin and St. Thomas while
the Motrin was distributed in the U.S., the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Olmos  in San Francisco at 
 dolmos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 Rgale5@bloomberg.net  