-- Japan's 5-Year Bonds Rise as Ireland Rating Cut, Korea Tension Hit Stocks
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2010-11-24T06:37:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/japan-bonds-may-rise-as-tension-between-koreas-dims-prospects-for-stocks.html
Japanese five-year  notes  rose after
Ireland had its credit rating cut and as heightening tension
between North and South Korea drove down stocks.  Ten-year bond futures advanced from a two-month low after
Standard & Poor’s lowered Ireland’s long-term sovereign rating
to A from AA-, citing concern about additional borrowing. Bonds
also gained as Japanese markets reopened after a holiday
yesterday when North Korea fired artillery shells in its worst
attack on South Korea in at least eight months.  “The market is now facing uncertainty in the North-South
Korea conflict,” said  Wee-Khoon Chong , a rates strategist at
Societe Generale SA in Hong Kong. “Weak stocks, the volatile
situation in North and South Korea and the European debt crisis
are all going to be supportive for bonds.”  The  yield  on the benchmark five-year note sank two basis
points to 0.4 percent as of 3:20 p.m. in Tokyo at Japan Bond
Trading Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The
0.3 percent security due September 2015 added 0.095 yen to
99.528. Ten-year yields were unchanged at 1.125 percent.  Ten-year bond futures for December delivery gained 0.13 to
141.36 at the Tokyo Stock Exchange after reaching 141.23 on Nov.
22, the lowest since Sept. 14. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average fell
0.8 percent.  “The Irish government looks set to borrow over and above
our previous projections to fund further bank capital injections
into Ireland’s troubled banking system,” S&P said in a
statement. The downgrade came after the country applied for a
bailout this month from the European Union and International
Monetary Fund, becoming the second European nation after Greece
to need a rescue this year.  ‘Undervalued’ Five-Years  South Korean President Lee Myung Bak ordered the nation’s
military to strike a North Korean missile base on the coastline
if there are further signs of provocation by North Korea, Yonhap
News reported late yesterday, citing a spokeswoman for Lee.
North Korea earlier in the day lobbed artillery shells at a
South Korean island near the disputed border between the two
countries, killing two soldiers and setting houses ablaze.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. said “undervalued” five-year debt is
likely to attract bargain hunting. The  spread  between five-year
yields and interbank overnight call rates rose to about 33 basis
points on Nov. 22, the widest level since June 11.  “We would like to remain bullish on five- to 10-year
bonds,”  Takafumi Yamawaki , Tokyo-based chief rates strategist
at JPMorgan, wrote in a report today. “We think an appropriate
five-year yield is between 0.3 and 0.35 percent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Masaki Kondo  in Tokyo at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  