-- Johnson & Johnson Shares Decline on Motrin, Benadryl Recalls
-- B y   D a v i d   O l m o s
-- 2010-11-23T15:19:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/johnson-johnson-shares-decline-on-recalls-of-motrin-benadryl-products.html
Johnson & Johnson  dropped as much as
1.3 percent in New York trading today after the company, citing
manufacturing “insufficiencies,” said it recalled about 4
million packages of Children’s Benadryl allergy tablets and
about 800,000 bottles of junior-strength Motrin caplets.  J&J fell 59 cents, or less than a percent, to $63.03 at
10:15 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. At the
lowest, the  shares  declined to $62.80. The Standard & Poor’s 500
index declined 1.3 percent.  “When the manufacturing process was developed, it was not
done as thoroughly as it should have been,”  Bonnie Jacobs , a
J&J spokeswoman, said in a telephone interview today. “This is
about the manufacturing process, not the product. There is no
indication that the product does not meet quality standards.”  The action “is not being taken on the basis of adverse
events,” or safety issues, Jacobs said in a separate
conversation.  J&J’s McNeil unit withdrew more than 40 types of children’s
over-the-counter liquid medicines in April, forcing a suspension
of production at a manufacturing plant and reducing 2010 sales
about $600 million, the New Brunswick, New Jersey-based company
said in July. The  U.S. House Oversight and Government Reform
Committee  has been investigating J&J’s handling of the recall
and a separate incident involving Motrin tablets.  The McNeil unit of J&J, the world’s largest maker of
health-care products,  posted  a notice Nov. 15 about the recall
on the Benadryl Web site, though it didn’t issue a press
release, Jacobs said.  Recall Expanded  In January, J&J pulled 500 lots of drugs, including
Rolaids, Motrin and some types of Tylenol because of possible
contamination from a chemical on shipping and packing materials.
That recall was expanded in June to include after consumer
complaints of a musty odor and reports of diarrhea, nausea and
vomiting after people used the products.  This month’s recall of Benadryl and Motrin is “has nothing
to do with the subjects of the other recalls,” Jacobs said.  ”Consumers can continue to use the product, they don’t
have to take any action,” Jacobs said. The medicine is being
withdrawn from wholesale and retail locations, she said.  The products being recalled are Children’s Benadryl allergy
Fastmelt tablets, in cherry and grape flavors, and junior-
strength Motrin caplets, 24 count, the company said on its Web
site. The Benadryl tablets were distributed in the U.S., Canada,
Puerto Rico, Belize, Barbados, St. Martin and St. Thomas while
the Motrin was distributed in the U.S., the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Olmos  in San Francisco at 
 dolmos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 Rgale5@bloomberg.net  