-- Junk-Rated Yuzhou, Vinacomin Said to Delay Dollar Bonds Amid Risk Aversion
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 2010-11-23T06:47:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/junk-rated-yuzhou-vinacomin-said-to-delay-dollar-bonds-amid-risk-aversion.html
Yuzhou Properties Co ., a developer
in southern China, and Vietnam National Coal-Mineral Industries
Group postponed dollar bond offerings as investor appetite for
risk diminishes, according to two people familiar with the sales.  Fujian-based Yuzhou planned to sell about $300 million of
five-year notes priced to yield as much as 13.5 percent, while
Hanoi-based Vinacomin planned to raise $500 million from 10-year
bonds, said the people, who asked not to be named as the
information is private. Both speculative-grade companies decided
to delay their sales amid poor market conditions, they said.  “There’s still appetite for high-yield bonds but from
issuers which are familiar names and not maiden borrowers,”
 Krishna Hegde , Asia credit strategist at Barclays Plc, said in a
phone interview from Singapore. “For other issuers the market
is more challenging.”  Sales of dollar, euro or yen bonds in the Asia-Pacific
region outside Japan fell to $1.6 billion last week from $3
billion a week earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
as concern about contagion from Ireland’s debt crisis escalated.
Asian stocks and the euro fell today after Moody’s Investors
Service said a “multi-notch” downgrade of Ireland is likely
and investors speculated China will intensify efforts to curb
inflation after increasing bank reserve ratios last week.  Bond Market Debut  Vinacomin has never tapped the dollar market before and
last sold dong-denominated bonds in April 2009, according to
Bloomberg data. Yuzhou sold its first bonds in July, raising
HK$700 million ($90 million) from 10 percent notes maturing in
2013, the data show.  A person who answered the phone at Yuzhou’s media
department, and who declined to be named, said no-one was
immediately available to comment. An e-mailed request for
comment to Vinacomin wasn’t immediately returned.  High-yield debt, also known as speculative-grade or junk,
is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s and less than BBB- by Standard &
Poor’s. Yuzhou is rated B+ by S&P, the risk assessor’s fourth-
highest junk ranking, and Vinacomin is rated two degrees higher
at BB.  While “bigger and more tested” investment-grade borrowers
can still sell dollar bonds, concern about China’s policy
tightening and European debt is “especially” weighing on high-
yield borrowers as investors start to close their books for the
end of the year, Barclays’ Hegde said.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (Asia) Ltd., a unit
of the world’s largest bank by market value, raised $500 million
from a sale of 5.125 percent subordinated notes today, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The notes have a preliminary
investment-grade rating of A3 rating from Moody’s, the data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katrina Nicholas  at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  