-- Junk Bond Issuers Forced to Pull Deals as Ireland, Korea Roil Debt Markets
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s   a n d   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2010-11-23T22:52:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/junk-bond-issuers-pull-deals-as-ireland-s-bailout-roils-market.html
Junk bond issuers are canceling
offerings and investors are demanding stronger protections as
credit markets weaken amid growing concern over Europe’s debt
crisis and increasing tensions on the Korean peninsula.  Performance Food Group Co. withdrew its planned $550
million note sale, citing “adverse market conditions,”
according to a person familiar with the offering. The Richmond,
Virginia-based company joins at least five other borrowers,
including Bain Capital LLC’s  Burlington Coat Factory Warehouse
Corp.  and Ship Finance International Ltd., that have withdrawn
offerings in the last week.  The cost to protect high-yield and investment-grade debt
climbed after South Korea scrambled fighter jets and returned
fire following North Korea’s attack on Yeonpyeong island.
Ireland’s plan to seek a rescue also failed to alleviate concern
about Europe’s debt crisis as investors turn their focus to the
high budget-deficit nations of southern Europe.  “Following Ireland’s request for help, Spain and Portugal
are now in the spotlight,”  Adrian Miller , fixed-income
strategist at Miller Tabak Roberts Securities LLC in New York,
wrote in an e-mail. “The pressure is hitting the high-yield
market, where you could begin to see an increase in suspension
of new issues and tenders.”  Markit CDX Rises  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, increased 4.4 basis points to a
mid-price of 95.4 basis points as of 4:49 p.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd. That’s the
largest rise in more than two months and the highest level since
Oct. 22, the data show.  Markit’s CDX North America High Yield Index, which declines
as investor confidence deteriorates, fell the most in almost two
weeks, as sales of junk bonds slowed after record issuance and
investors forced companies to bolster protective covenants.  The CDX High Yield Index tumbled 1.1 percentage points to
99.4 percent of face value, the biggest decline since Nov. 11,
when it fell 1.4 percentage points, Markit data show.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Risk Aversion  “General risk aversion is at work,” said  Jason Brady , a
managing director at Thornburg Investment Management in Santa
Fe, New Mexico, which oversees more than $65 billion. “When
things slow down a little bit, there’s a little more scrutiny,
covenants get tighter, yields go higher.”  Companies this year have sold $263 billion of speculative-
grade debt, ranked below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and
less than BBB- by Moody’s Investors Service. The bonds, which
have gained 14.1 percent in 2010, are headed for their first
monthly loss since May, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data. The U.S. High Yield Master II Index has lost
0.3 percent in November.  Performance Food, owned by Blackstone Group LP and
Wellspring Capital Management LLC, pulled the sale even after
bolstering the debt’s terms yesterday, according to a person
familiar with the transaction.  The company added a provision to require its units to
guarantee the securities once certain real estate leases expire,
said the person, who declined to be identified because the
marketing was private.  Offering Canceled  WII Components Inc., the maker of cabinet doors owned by
Behrman Capital LP, canceled its $115 million offering of five-
year notes, according to a person familiar with the offering.
 Dale Herbst , the St. Cloud, Minnesota-based company’s chief
financial officer, didn’t immediately return a telephone call
seeking comment.  Hamilton, Bermuda-based Ship Finance International withdrew
its $400 million note sale yesterday, citing “weakening market
conditions,” according to a statement distributed by
Marketwire.  “We launched a deal into a market that suddenly changed,”
said  Ole B. Hjertaker , Ship Finance International’s chief
executive officer, in a conference call with analysts today.
“It is not a market setting to issue new capital in unless you
are desperate, as we see it.”  That followed Burlington dropping plans for $1.5 billion in
debt financing, including a $500 million bond offering, on Nov.
18.  Dollar Bonds  Yuzhou Properties Co., a developer in southern China, and
Vietnam National Coal-Mineral Industries Group also postponed
U.S. dollar-denominated bond offerings, according to two people
familiar with the sales who declined to be identified because
the decisions were private.  ClubCorp Inc., an owner and operator of golf courses, sold
$415 million of notes yesterday after including a provision that
prevents it from paying a dividend or buying back stock for two
years, unless the company sells $125 million of equity in an
underwritten public offering.  “There’s a risk-off trade right now because there’s a lot
of fear in the marketplace,” said  Kingman Penniman , chief
executive officer of KDP Investment Advisors in Montpelier,
Vermont. “With the combination of everything that’s happening
in Europe and Asia and the aggressive amount of new issuance
that’s come recently, we’re definitely seeing a correction.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tim Catts  in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net ;
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 