-- Juventus May Bid for Manchester United's Dimitar Berbatov: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2010-11-23T10:40:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/juventus-may-bid-for-manchester-united-s-dimitar-berbatov-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Berba Bid?  Juventus may bid to sign Manchester United striker  Dimitar Berbatov , who’s having an “erratic” season, the  Daily Mirror 
reported.  The Bulgarian’s performance in the draw at Aston Villa 10
days ago was so poor that manager Alex Ferguson left him out of
the squad for the Nov. 20 win over Wigan, the newspaper added.  Berbatov’s long-term prospects at Old Trafford don’t look
good now as Wayne Rooney is staying at the club and amid
competition from newcomer Javier Hernandez, the Mirror said.  Juve is hopeful of signing Berbatov in the January transfer
window, according to the newspaper.  Lomas Return?  West Ham, bottom of the Premier League, may sign former
Hammers captain Steve Lomas as assistant coach to Avram Grant, 
the Mirror  reported.  That spells the exit for current No. 2 Zeljko Petrovic, who
will leave by the end of the week, the newspaper added.  The  Daily Star  says his departure will pave the way for the
return of Hammers favorite Paolo Di Canio in a coaching role.
His name was chanted by traveling fans in West Ham’s 3-0 defeat
at Liverpool three days ago.  Villa Veterans  Aston Villa coach Gerard Houllier may try to sign his
former player Juninho Pernambucano, whom he managed at Lyon,  the
Mirror  reported.  The 35-year-old is currently at Al Gharafa in Qatar and
could join another veteran signing, Robert Pires, at Villa, the
newspaper added.  Houllier is preparing a January bid for Middlesbrough
center-back David Wheater, the  Daily Mail  said.  Boro manager Tony Mowbray needs to raise funds to bring in
new players as he seeks to climb out of the Championship
relegation zone, the Mail added.  Zapata for City?  Manchester City is monitoring Udinese center-back Cristian
Zapata, the  Mail  reported. The 24-year-old, who can also play
right-back, is attracting interest from Inter Milan too.  The Colombian, who has a contract at the Italian team until
2013, is valued at 8 million pounds ($12.7 million), the Mail
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter-Joseph Hegarty  in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 