-- Cameco, K-Bro, Maple Leaf, MKS, Potash: Canadian Equity Preview
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2010-11-24T14:03:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/k-bro-linen-maple-leaf-foods-rogers-canadian-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
may have  unusual  moves in  Canadian trading . Stock symbols are in
parentheses.       Cameco Corp.  (CCO CT): The world’s second-largest uranium
producer agreed to supply the fuel to China Guangdong Nuclear
Power Holding Co. through 2025 to meet demand in the world’s
fastest-growing nuclear market.  The Saskatoon, Saskatchewan-based company plans to sell 29
million pounds of uranium concentrate to China Guangdong
Nuclear, subject to the approval of the Chinese government.  K-Bro Linen Income Fund  (KBL-U CT): The commercial laundry
received a “buy” rating in new coverage from  Vincent Perri , an
analyst at Laurentian Bank of Canada.  Maple Leaf Foods Inc.  (MFI CT): Canada’s largest meat-
products producer said Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan Board will
sell 21 million of its 34.5 million Maple Leaf shares for
C$10.50 a share. Maple Leaf shares rose 0.9 percent to C$12.69
before being halted yesterday.       MKS Inc.  (MKX CT): The software company was raised to a
“buy” from “neutral” by Versant Partners equity analyst  Tom Liston .       Potash Corp of Saskatchewan Inc.  (POT CT): The world’s
largest fertilizer producer received a “neutral” rating in new
coverage by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analyst  Robert Koort .  Rogers Communications Inc.  (RCI/B CT): The country’s
biggest wireless carrier said it will buy back 1.2 million of
its shares from a third party for C$40.8 million ($39.8
million). The shares fell 1.3 percent to C$36.45 before the
announcement.  To contact the reporters on this story;
 Matt Walcoff  in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net ;
 Inyoung Hwang  in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  