-- Kanye West Toasts Himself in ‘Dark Twisted Fantasy’: Review
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2010-11-23T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/kanye-west-s-dark-twisted-fantasy-toasts-scumbags-sex-shopping-review.html
Kanye West’s  ego and sexual
obsessions, never modest, attain superstar proportions on his
new CD, “My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy.”  The infantile cover aims to provoke with a  George Condo 
painting of a big-butted white woman straddling the naked star,
who offers a bottle of booze and a toothy grin. (There are five
different  images ; many stores are selling the CD with an
inoffensive Condo picture of a ballerina).  As the video camera points at him during the 9-minute
“Runaway,” he says: “let’s have a toast for the scumbags.”
Righto.  By now, West has probably annoyed at least half the human
race. In his lyrics, women exchange sexual favors for shopping
binges. He describes himself as “young, rich and tasteless,”
captivated by “fast cars, shooting stars.”  Hard to disagree. There’s much conspicuous consumption of
Champagne and Lamborghinis, adolescent sexual boasts and
misogynous orgies. “I need more drinks and less lights/ And
that American Apparel girl in just tights,” he says on
“Gorgeous.” Still, the lyrics are less X-rated than most rap.  At one point, West cheerfully compares himself to God,
exposing sin with divine light: “Turn up the lights in here,
baby/ Extra bright, I want y’all to see this.”  Because he can’t sing without the aid of an autotuner to
hit the right notes, this time he’s mainly back to rapping.
“All of the Lights” has an  Elton John  piano riff and guest
vocals by  Rihanna , Fergie from the Black Eyed Peas and  Alicia Keys . With much help from his friends, it ends up, perversely,
as West’s best CD.  “My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy” is on Def Jam/Roc-a-
Fella, priced at $14 or $20 with a DVD. Download prices vary
across services. Information:  http://kanyewest.com   ( Mark Beech  writes for  Muse , the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Mark Beech  in London at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 