-- Kinder Morgan Files IPO to Raise $1.5 Billion, Backed by Goldman, Carlyle
-- B y   M i k e   L e e   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2010-11-23T22:34:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/kinder-morgan-files-to-make-initial-public-offering-of-up-to-1-5-billion.html
Kinder Morgan Inc. , the Houston-
based pipeline company taken private in a $22 billion leveraged
buyout three years ago, plans to raise as much as $1.5 billion
in an initial public offering.  Kinder Morgan will convert its parent, Kinder Morgan Holdco
LLC, into a corporation from a limited liability company and
rename it Kinder Morgan Inc., the company said in a statement.
Kinder Morgan Holdco’s unitholders will become stockholders in
the new Kinder Morgan Inc.  The company currently named Kinder Morgan Inc., which is
registered in Kansas, will change its name to Kinder Morgan
Kansas Inc.  “It seems like the market has been pretty receptive for
IPOs, so that would be a good sign for Kinder Morgan,” said
 Jack Ablin , chief investment officer at Chicago-based Harris
Private Bank, which oversees $55 billion.  All of the common stock in the offering will be sold by
current investors, including funds advised by or affiliated with
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , Highstar Capital LP, Carlyle Group and
Riverstone Holdings LLC. Kinder Morgan said it will not receive
any proceeds from the offering. Those companies helped finance
the transaction that took the company private in 2007.  “You’ve got private equity who have owned their interest
for a number of years and this is their way to exit,” said  Mark Reichman , an analyst with Madison Williams & Co. in Houston, who
has an “accumulate” on Kinder Morgan Energy Partners LP units
and doesn’t own any.  Board Structure  Kinder Morgan operates the second-biggest U.S. pipeline
network by volume through its control of Kinder Morgan Energy
Partners LP, which has a market value of $21.5 billion. Kinder
Morgan operates or owns interests in 37,000 miles (59,546
kilometers) of pipelines and about 180 terminals, handling
natural gas and other hydrocarbons.  Billionaire Chief Executive Officer  Richard Kinder  owns
about a third of the company. Kinder will have the right to
nominate five of the company’s 13 board members and will keep
his 31 percent share, according to a U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission filing. Goldman owns 25.2 percent of the
company, Highstar owns 16 percent and Riverstone and Carlyle own
11.2 percent each. The rest of the company is owned by managers
or original stockholders, according to the SEC filing.  Company history  Richard Kinder formed Kinder Morgan in 1997 with a group of
investors after he was passed over for the top job at Enron
Corp. Started with an initial investment of $40 million, the
company has grown to one of the biggest pipeline firms in the
U.S. Forbes Magazine estimates Richard Kinder’s personal wealth
at about $3.6 billion.  Kinder and the private equity firms paid $107.50 per share
for the company in 2007. The group also assumed $7 billion in
debt, bringing the total value of the buyout to $22 billion.  Carlyle Partners IV’s $840.7 million investment in Kinder
was worth $1.3 billion at the end of the first quarter,
according to an investor letter updating clients on the fund’s
performance.  The company said it intends to raise its dividend over time
by increasing the partnership’s cash that can be distributed to
unitholders, according to a filing with the Securities and
Exchange Commission. The first dividend may be paid in May 2011.  The company did not disclose the offering price of the
initial shares, or the date of the potential sale.  “This had very strong investor interest when he took it
private in the first place,”  John Edwards , an analyst with
Morgan Keegan & Co. in Houston, who has an “outperform” on
Kinder Morgan Energy Partners and doesn’t own any, said in a
telephone interview. “My expectation is that it will be very
strong coming out. They’re a well-run company.”  IPO Market Improves  Mutual funds can also invest in stocks more easily than in
master limited partnerships, making the initial public offering
appealing to a wider range of investors, Edwards said.  Kinder Morgan’s filing comes after the biggest week for
U.S. initial sales since March 2008, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The IPO market has stabilized after 61 offerings
were postponed or withdrawn this year, with companies from
 General Motors Co.  to LPL Investment Holdings Inc. raising more
than $17 billion combined last week as the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index traded near a two-year high.  A 15 percent gain in U.S. stocks since the end of June has
helped leveraged-buyout firms complete IPOs for a dozen of their
companies, data compiled by Bloomberg show. More than 80 percent
of those companies backed by private-equity firms are trading
above their IPO price, compared with less than half of those
that went public in the first six months of 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mike Lee  in Dallas at   Mlee326@blooomberg.net ,
 Noah Buhayar  in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 