-- Korean Won Slides as Irish Debt Concerns Help Bolster Dollar; Bonds Steady
-- B y   F r a n c e s   Y o o n
-- 2010-11-23T00:49:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/korean-won-slides-as-irish-debt-concerns-help-bolster-dollar-bonds-steady.html
South Korea’s won fell for the first
time in four days after Moody’s Investors Service said it may
downgrade Ireland’s credit rating, spurring demand for dollars
as a refuge from Europe’s debt crisis.  Moody’s will probably cut Ireland’s Aa2 rating several
notches as a bailout poses a “credit negative” for the country
and may increase the debt burden, the company said in an e-
mailed note yesterday. Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  said he will
call elections early next year after the Green Party said it
would pull out of his coalition.  “Ireland’s fiscal problems are now transforming into
political uncertainty and that’s strengthening demand for
dollars,” said  Lee Young Chul , a currency dealer at Korea
Exchange Bank in Seoul. “The focal point today will be how much
exporters will try to repatriate income, a move that will help
limit won weakness.”  The won dropped 0.5 percent to 1,131.65 as of 9:34 a.m. in
Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It has gained
2.3 percent so far this year, the second-worst performer among
Asia’s 10 most-traded currencies excluding the yen. The euro
slid 0.1 percent to $1.3611, after yesterday losing 0.3 percent.  Ireland asked for financial aid from the European Union and
International Monetary Fund last week, an amount that Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. estimated may total 95 billion euros ($130
billion). The Bank of Korea on Nov. 16 cited Europe’s fiscal
problems as downside risks to the country’s economy, after
raising the benchmark interest  rate  by a quarter of a percentage
point to 2.5 percent.  The yield on South Korea’s 3.75 percent bond due June 2013
was 3.39 percent, according to Korea Stock Exchange. That was
unchanged from yesterday’s close, which was the highest in a
week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Frances Yoon  in Seoul at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  