-- National Amusements Plans to Sell $390 Million of Notes to Refinance Debt
-- B y   B o r i s   K o r b y   a n d   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2010-11-23T18:00:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/national-amusements-plans-notes-to-replace-credit-line-update1-.html
National Amusements Inc., the movie-
theater and holding company controlled by billionaire  Sumner Redstone , plans to sell $390 million of seven-year notes to
refinance a bank credit line.  The senior secured issue may be sold as soon as next week,
according to a person familiar with the transaction. The notes
will have a provision allowing up to 10 percent of the debt to
be redeemed at 103 percent annually during the first three
years, after which time all of it can be called, said the
person, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  “The theater business has been stable through the
downturn,” said  Mike Simonton , a debt analyst with Fitch
Ratings in Chicago. “Given how open the high-yield market has
been to a range of companies, and companies much more highly
leveraged than National Amusements, it’s not a surprise they’re
able to tap the markets for a bond deal.”  Redstone’s National Amusements, which serves as the holding
company for assets including his  CBS Corp.  and  Viacom Inc. 
stock, is issuing the debt as the company’s $800 million
unsecured revolving credit line nears its December maturity,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company sold $945
million of CBS and Viacom shares and as many as 35 theaters in
the fourth quarter of last year to repay loans that threatened
Redstone’s control of the two media companies.  National Amusements “resolved almost all of the issues
with the lenders” during the financial crisis, Simonton said.
“There must have been some bank debt that was pushed out a
little bit, and that’s what this bond deal is presumably
addressing.”  Redstone, 87, is the chairman of CBS and Viacom. The bonds
may be sold through National Amusement’s NAI Entertainment
Holdings LLC unit, the person said. Barclays Plc is managing the
sale, the person said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Boris Korby  in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net ;
 Sapna Maheshwari  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  