-- New Zealand's `Relatively Strong' Finances Back AAA Rating, Moody's Says
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2010-11-23T01:04:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/new-zealand-s-relatively-strong-finances-back-aaa-rating-moody-s-says.html
New Zealand’s government finances
are “relatively strong” even after deteriorating over the past
two years, said Moody’s Investors Service, which in September
affirmed the nation’s top-grade credit score.  The country’s performance during the global financial
crisis “reinforced” Moody’s Aaa rating for New Zealand, said
Steven Hess, senior credit officer in New York for the company,
in an e-mailed response to questions. Standard & Poor’s
yesterday lowered to negative its credit-rating outlook for New
Zealand, citing the risk of weaker banking finances.  “Overall the debt levels are still lower than the majority
of countries we rate Aaa,” Hess said. “We see government
finances as relatively strong, even though they are not as
strong as they were in an absolute sense.”  The ratio of New Zealand’s government debt to gross
domestic product will likely rise to exceed 30 percent compared
with the median level of more than 50 percent for other
similarly-rated countries, according to Moody’s. New Zealand’s
debt stood at 22.2 percent of GDP for 2009, the second-best
standing after Australia among 24 industrialized nations tracked
by Bloomberg data.  “The ratio is projected to peak and then begin declining
in the next few years, unlike the ratios of some other
countries,” Hess said.  Foreign Liabilities  The New Zealand dollar was little changed at 77.15 U.S.
cents as of 2:03 p.m. in Wellington. The currency dropped 24
percent in 2008 after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. froze credit markets and prompted investors to dump the
nation’s assets. It reached as high as 79.76 cents on Nov. 4,
the most since April 2008.  Nearly 65 percent of the nation’s debt is held by  non-
resident investors , according to the Reserve Bank of New
Zealand.  S&P said yesterday the nation risks a downgrade on its
foreign-currency sovereign credit rating if its external
position doesn’t improve or its current account weakens due to
higher cross-border funding costs at its banks.  The structure of New Zealand’s foreign liabilities
“mitigates the risk of serious problems,” Moody’s Hess wrote.
New Zealand’s institutions are able to issue in domestic
currency and its banking system is supported by strong foreign
parents, he said.  “The performance of New Zealand’s government finance and
financial flows during the global financial crisis reinforced
Moody’s Aaa rating,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  