-- New Zealand Mine Rescuers Drill Through Shaft, Find High Levels of Gases
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2010-11-24T01:54:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/new-zealand-mine-rescuers-drill-through-shaft-find-high-levels-of-gases.html
Rescuers drilling a 162-meter hole
into a New Zealand coal mine following an explosion that trapped
29 men have broken through the shaft and found high levels of
toxic gases, further delaying search efforts.  “The samples are off the limit,” Police Superintendent
Gary Knowles told a news conference today in Greymouth, a town
about 50 kilometers (30 miles) south of the mine. “The
environment is still unstable. It is unsafe. It is not
appropriate to send rescue teams underground at this time.”  No contact has been made with the men, who range in age
from 17 to 62, since the blast on Nov. 19 at the  Pike River Coal
Ltd.  mine on the west coast of the nation’s South Island. A 65-
member rescue team is waiting for poisonous and combustible
gases to clear before beginning its search for survivors.  “The air that came out from the hole was extremely high in
carbon monoxide, very high in methane and fairly low in
oxygen,”  Peter Whittall , chief executive officer at Pike River,
told reporters today. “This is not an issue of not being able
to breathe. It’s an issue of the mine exploding again.”  The company is yet to determine what devices it can get
down the hole because the breakthrough was on the side of the
tunnel rather than the roof, which may prohibit using a camera,
he said. A thermal imaging camera will be used to gauge
temperatures.  Robot Video  The rescuers are reviewing video footage from a defense
force robot that entered the mine and filmed one of the helmets
left behind by two workers who survived the blast and walked out
of the 2.5 kilometer main shaft, Whittall said. The robot made
it 1,000 meters into the mine after stalling yesterday and a
second robot is in the shaft, Knowles said.  “The robots have got eyes,” Tony Kokshoorn, mayor of
Greymouth, told Television New Zealand today. “They can go down
there and they’ll actually find those miners. They’ll tell us if
they are dead or alive.”  The blast that ripped through the mine lasted more than 50
seconds, officials said yesterday as they warned that chances of
finding the 29 lost men were fading. A video was released
showing smoke and dust expelled from the main tunnel following
the explosion.  Whittall said a meeting earlier today with the families had
again been “sobering,” with some wanting rescuers to proceed
and others arguing against it.  Families Await News  “I certainly hope all the guys are waiting down there,”
he said. “I certainly hope as many of them we can get out, get
out safely.”  Some are expecting the worse. The front page of the Press
newspaper, based in the South Island city of Christchurch, today
says “Mother wants teenaged son brought home ‘to bury him’.”
The story cites Pip Timms, whose trapped 17-year-old son Joseph
Dunbar was on his first day at the mine.  Whittall today wore a white, ribbon-shaped lapel badge
symbolizing an annual appeal for victim support, which he said
his daughter and friends were wearing to show support for the
workers, the rescuers and Greymouth, a town with a history of
mine disasters.  A two-meter high stone memorial to victims of a 1967
explosion at the Strongman coal mine sits beside the coastal
road overlooking the Tasman Sea, near the entrance to the Nine
Mile Valley where mines were operated for 65 years. The
Strongman’s replacement closed in 2003.  At the foot of the memorial are flowers and a handwritten
note, with the message: “Pike River, men and families, mates
and colleagues. Our thoughts are with you. We wait in hope.”  Review Planned  South of Greymouth, at the beachside Karoro Cemetery,
another stone monument stands before a line of the graves of the
Strongman victims.  The  Pike River  blast is likely to result in “multiple
reviews” to discover its cause,  Gerry Brownlee , the minister
for energy and resources, said in an interview yesterday.  Construction of the mine began in September 2006. The mine
first exported coal in February, a year behind schedule, after
problems with equipment and a rock fall in a ventilation shaft
in February 2009.  Knowles said rescuers were planning for all outcomes. “If
you look at extremes we are planning for the most positive
outcome of rescue to the most unpleasant situation of
recovery,” he said.  The wait for news has prompted comparisons with the October
rescue of 33 miners in Chile who were brought to the surface
after being trapped more than 600 meters (1,970 feet) below the
Atacama desert for 70 days.  More than 1 billion people watched live on television
networks around the world, Chile’s TVN reported, as the 33 were
each lifted to safety in a four-meter long capsule in the
world’s longest mine rescue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Greymouth at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  