-- New Mets Manager Collins Says He'll Use Passion, Confidence to Motivate
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2010-11-23T17:13:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/new-mets-manager-collins-says-he-ll-use-passion-confidence-to-motivate.html
The New York Mets need confidence,
communication and renewed passion to turn a talent-heavy roster
into a playoff team once more, new manager  Terry Collins  said.  “The lines of communication have to be open on a daily
Basis,” Collins said today at a press conference. “The players
have to realize my passion for the game and my passion for
excellence. I know they have the same passion.”  Collins was introduced at Citi Field after signing a two-
year contract. Financial terms weren’t disclosed.  The 61-year-old former manager of the Houston Astros and
Anaheim Angels takes over a team that hasn’t made the Major
League Baseball playoffs since 2006 or a World Series since
losing to the New York Yankees in 2000. The Mets went 79-83 last
season and fired manager  Jerry Manuel  and general manager  Omar Minaya  in October.  When Collins received his No. 10 Mets jersey, he
accidentally put a button in the wrong hole. As team executives
helped fix the slanted jersey, Collins joked that it had been a
long time. He hasn’t managed in the major leagues since being
leaving the Angels late in the 1999 season, after his fiery
style frustrated many of the team’s veterans.  “When there’s dual respect on both sides, the players do
take on the personality of the manager,” Collins said. “If
that happens, there will be energy in Citi Field on a nightly
basis.”  Collins is well known for his development of young players.
The Mets relied heavily last season on youth, including  Ike Davis ,  Josh Thole  and  Chris Carter , and newly hired GM  Sandy Alderson  called Collins’s player development a “significant
factor” in the team’s choice of manager.  Back to Basics  Collins said that the team would go back to basics. After
managing for two seasons in Japan, Collins said fundamentals --
fielding, bunting, manufacturing runs -- will be emphasized next
season.  “It’s going to be a new day, a new year,” Collins said.
“When we get to spring training, we are going to start talking
about confidence. You have to be confident to play this game.”  The Mets finished in fourth in the NL East each of the past
two seasons. Falling attendance in the team’s second season at
$850 million Citi Field forced the team to lower ticket prices
by an average of 14 percent for 2011.  “I love this job, I love this team and I will do whatever
it takes to bring success to the New York Mets,” Collins said.
“We want to be the last team standing next October.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eben Novy-Williams  in New York 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net . 