-- New Zealand Crisis Minister Grapples With Lost Miners, Quake
-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 2010-11-23T19:55:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/new-zealand-s-brownlee-grapples-with-mine-crisis-three-months-after-quake.html
Gerry Brownlee , the New Zealand
minister charged with cleaning up the country’s worst earthquake
in 80 years, is now grappling with a mining disaster just three
months later.  “It’s pretty somber,” Brownlee, 54, said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “There is no easy way into that mine to
have a search about and see who might be in there.”  Five days after Brownlee flew to the Pike River mine on the
South Island’s west coast, following an explosion that left 29
men trapped underground, he remains in the region. No contact
has been made with the miners, rescue efforts have been hampered
by toxic gases, and families have been told the situation is
bleak after viewing footage of the 50-second blast.  “He seems to be going from crisis to crisis,” Tony
Kokshoorn, mayor of Greymouth, the town about 50 kilometers (30
miles) south of the coal mine, said by telephone. “Gerry
Brownlee is always a good presence here. He’s got his heart in
the west coast.”  Brownlee serves a dual role in Prime Minister John Key’s
government as minister for energy and resources and  minister for
economic development . He is also the parliament’s Leader of the
House. Pike River is the second major crisis that Brownlee has
overseen in three months after a magnitude 7.0 earthquake hit
Christchurch, the city where he was born and attended school, on
Sep. 4.  ‘Personal Tragedies’  “We will get through these things, and in this case its
personal tragedies for people,” Brownlee said. “The bigger
your economy the better you’re able to deal with them. That
might sound slightly weird, but it sort of reinforces the job
you’ve got to do.”  The attempted rescue of Pike River’s miners has been
delayed after hard rock slowed the drilling of a 160-meter bore-
hole. A robot sent in to collect images and sample toxic gases
has restarted after breaking down yesterday, and a second robot
has entered the mine. The miners’ relatives are going through a
mix of emotions, he said.  “They range from complete despair to complete optimism,”
Brownlee said. “Everyone deals with these things in their own
way.”  Following the Christchurch earthquake, Brownlee was
appointed to take control of the area’s reconstruction. While
there were no fatalities caused by the temblor, which was the
same strength as the Haiti earthquake in January, New Zealand
faced a NZ$2 billion damage bill.  Brownlee was also involved in talks in October that
persuaded Warner Bros Productions Ltd to make the $500 million
“The Hobbit,” a two-film prequel to the “Lord of the Rings”
trilogy, in New Zealand.  School Teacher  Since 1996, Brownlee has been the National Party’s
candidate for Ilam, a leafy suburb about five kilometers west of
Christchurch’s city center, according to his website. Working as
a carpenter after leaving high school, Brownlee retrained as a
secondary-school teacher in 1980 and taught for fifteen years.
He is also New Zealand’s associate minister for next year’s
 Rugby World Cup .  During his political career, Brownlee has formed many
“connections” with people from the South Island’s West Coast,
where most of the Pike River miners are from, he said.  “They have a strong individualism, a strong self reliance
and a stoicism that’s just part of the make-up over here,” he
said.  Conservation Areas  The minister has had detractors. In July Brownlee was
forced to cancel plans to open conservation areas, including
national parks, to mining and exploration after thousands of
protesters marched against them, seeking to protect the nation’s
clean, green tourist image. New Zealand’s onshore minerals are
worth NZ$194 billion, according to the  Ministry of Economic
Development .  The  Pike River  blast is likely to result in “multiple
reviews” to discover its cause, Brownlee said. Construction of
the mine began in September 2006 and it first exported coal in
February, a year behind schedule, after problems with equipment
and a rock fall in a ventilation shaft in February 2009.  “We’ll have to know exactly what went wrong there, so in
any future occasion the lives of miners are not put in the same
risk profile,” he said. “Whether that translates to a complete
rewrite of safety regulations, I couldn’t speculate at this
stage.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Bourke  in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  