-- Newark's Booker Will Start Firing Police Officers Nov. 30 to Curb Deficit
-- B y   A s h l e y   L u t z   a n d   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2010-11-24T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/newark-police-union-rejects-booker-plan-aimed-at-saving-167-officer-s-jobs.html
Newark will fire 167 police officers
starting Nov. 30, to pare down an $83 million budget deficit,
after union leaders rejected a bid by New Jersey’s largest city
to avoid the cuts, Mayor  Cory Booker  said.  “Every city employee is making profound sacrifices, and
the only group that has made no concessions is the  Fraternal
Order of Police ,” the mayor said yesterday in a statement,
referring to the union. He said the group’s leaders hadn’t given
their members a chance to vote on a city proposal, as promised.  The local’s executive board voted unanimously Nov. 22 to
reject the proposals from Julien Neals, Newark’s acting business
administrator, the organization said yesterday in a statement.
The group represents the city’s 1,279-member force. It had
offered reductions in stress pay, clothing allowances and
raises, according to the city.  The city proposed reducing overtime, 10 days of deferred
pay and a giveback of five days’ pay, Booker said. The city was
trying to save about $9.5 million from police costs and prevent
the dismissals, according to Booker’s statement. He said union
leaders indicated publicly on Nov. 20 that they would give their
members a chance to vote on the city’s offer, then didn’t do it.  “Other communities across the state and nation have called
upon their police unions to share the pain of this economy
through even more significant concessions,” Booker said. In
Newark, the union leadership “has failed its membership and the
citizens,” he said.  $83 Million Deficit  The mayor is trying to reduce the deficit in the city’s
$605 million spending plan for fiscal 2010, which ends next
month. On Nov. 20, Booker asked the union to work out a solution
with the city of 280,000 and proposed forgoing dismissals in
exchange for five furlough days and a reduction in overtime that
went beyond what the unions had offered. Booker gave the group
until Nov. 30 to vote on the plan.  Booker had called the firings “entirely avoidable.” He
had planned to start dismissing the 167 officers on or about
Nov. 12. The action was delayed until Nov. 22 by Superior Court
Judge Kenneth Levy, who issued a 10-day stay for negotiations.  “Since announcing police layoffs, Mayor Booker has
attempted to mask his incompetency and dishonesty by vilifying
the” union, the group said yesterday in its statement. “He has
attempted to divide this police department by pitting officer
against officer.”  The mayor won approval from the state Civil Service
Commission on Sept. 23 to fire 860 city workers, including the
police officers, and to demote 123.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ashley Lutz  in New York at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net ;
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 