-- News Corp. Buys Wireless Generation for $360 Million, Expands in Education
-- B y   A n t h o n y   P a l a z z o
-- 2010-11-23T21:07:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/news-corp-acquires-wireless-for-360-million-to-expand-into-education.html
     Nov. 23 (Bloomberg) --  News Corp.  agreed to acquire 90
percent of education-technology provider Wireless Generation for
about $360 million in cash, as  Rupert Murdoch ’s media company
looks to expand in academics.  Wireless Generation’s management, led by founder and Chief
Executive Officer Larry Berger, will remain, New York-based News
Corp. said yesterday in a statement. Berger, Chief Operating
Officer Josh Reibel and product chief Laurence Holt will retain
a 10 percent stake, the company said.  The deal follows News Corp.’s hiring of New York City
Schools Chancellor  Joel Klein  this month as a senior adviser to
Murdoch. Klein will develop business strategies for the
educational marketplace, News Corp. said on Nov. 9.  “When it comes to K-through-12 education, we see a $500
billion sector in the U.S. alone that is waiting desperately to
be transformed,” Murdoch, 79, said in yesterday’s statement.  News Corp. fell 47 cents, or 3.3 percent, to $13.74 at 4
p.m. in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares are unchanged
this year.  Wireless Generation, based in Brooklyn, New York, makes
Web-based software that allows teachers to track student
progress and tailor instruction individually.  The company, founded in 2000, has 400 employees and also
offers systems that centralize student data. It is a partner
with the New York City Department of Education on its
Achievement Reporting and Innovation System and School of One
initiative, News Corp. said.  In an Oct. 6, speech at the Media Institute Awards Dinner,
Murdoch advocated for improvements in big-city public schools,
which he called “failure factories” that threaten upward
mobility and opportunities for disadvantaged students.  “The real story is the almost criminal waste of human
potential,” Murdoch said then in Washington, according to a
transcript of his remarks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anthony Palazzo  in Los Angeles at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  