-- Nigeria Considering New Initiative to Change Limits on Share-Price Moves
-- B y   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a
-- 2010-11-23T15:18:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/nigeria-considering-new-initiative-on-share-moves-update1-.html
Nigeria is considering “new
initiatives” to change limits on daily share-price movements,
 Nigerian Stock Exchange  interim president Ballama Manu said.  “Currently, there is a maximum capping of 5 percent on
individual stock movements, which is affecting market
liquidity,” Manu said in an address at the start of the
bourse’s council meeting today in Lagos. “We hope to seek the
approval of the Securities and Exchange Commission after Council
has considered the opinions of stakeholders on the new
initiatives.”  A new director-general and four executive directors are
expected to assume duties at the exchange in early January, Manu
said. Recruitment of the officials will be completed by the
first week of December, after which the SEC is expected to give
its approval, Manu said. The council may convene an extra-
ordinary meeting “to confirm them,” he said.  The commission fired  Ndi Okereke-Onyiuke  as director-
general of the bourse on Aug. 4 as part of measures to address
“inadequate oversight of the exchange, ongoing litigation,
allegations of financial mismanagement, governance challenges,
and the inordinate delays in the implementation of the
succession plan,” it said. It also planned to reduce the
exchange’s workforce by 33 percent to 197.  The bourse’s All Share Index, which rallied 18 percent this
year to become the fourth-best performer in sub-Saharan Africa
after gauges in Uganda, Kenya and Ghana, is still down more than
63 percent from a March 2008 high. The measure fell following a
debt crisis caused by investors borrowing to buy stocks before
prices crashed, forcing a bailout of some of the nation’s banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vincent Nwanma  in Lagos at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  