-- Nigerian Rebels Confirm Attack on Refinery Pipeline
-- B y   D u l u e   M b a c h u
-- 2010-11-23T08:41:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/nigerian-m-e-n-d-rebels-confirm-nov-21-attack-on-obidi-refinery-pipeline.html
Nigeria’s main militant group, the
Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta, said its
fighters blew up a pipeline that supplies crude to the country’s
Warri Refinery.  The attack on the link to the 125,000-barrel-a-day refinery
took place on Nov. 21, Jomo Gbomo, a spokesman for the group
known as MEND, said in an e-mailed statement today. The “attack
and similar attacks on pipelines which will take place within
the next few days” are to show “the futility of wasting the
nations resources in combating militancy without addressing the
underlying causes of agitation in the Niger Delta.”  A pipeline belonging to the Nigerian National Petroleum
Corp. was sabotaged,  Levi Ajuonuma , a spokesman for the state-
owned energy company, said yesterday without giving details on
the operations of the refinery. Nigeria is the fifth-largest
source of U.S. oil imports.  The southern Niger delta, which is home to nation’s oil and
gas industry, has been hit by a surge of violence in recent
months after a period of relative calm that followed a
government amnesty in 2009 and the disarming of thousands of
militant fighters. In response to the attacks, the Nigerian army
ordered an offensive against rebels last week.  The pipeline that supplies crude to the plant in Warri is
also the source of oil for the refinery in the northern city of
Kaduna. The 110,000-barrel-a-day Kaduna refinery is operating
after a minor glitch, Ajuonuma said.  Fuel Imports  Nigeria’s four state-run oil refineries are producing at
about 30 percent of capacity, the Department of Petroleum
Resources that oversees the country’s oil and gas industry said
on Nov. 15. Africa’s biggest crude producer relies on fuel
imports for more than 70 percent of its domestic needs,
according to the Petroleum Ministry.  MEND says it is fighting for local control of oil revenue
by the ethnic minorities of the delta, alleging domination by
Nigeria’s majority ethnic groups.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc, Exxon Mobil Corp., Chevron Corp.,
Total SA and Eni SpA run joint ventures with NNPC that pump most
of the West African nation’s oil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dulue Mbachu in Lagos at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 