-- No More Gran Torinos for States Losing $3.5 Billion in Revenues
-- B y   T o m   M o r o n e y
-- 2010-11-23T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/no-more-gran-torinos-for-states-losing-3-5-billion-in-revenues.html
Michigan taxpayers foot the bill for
the most generous movie subsidies in the U.S. Since 2008, the
state has allotted $282 million to lure the filming of  Hilary Swank ’s “Conviction,” Clint Eastwood’s  “Gran Torino,”  George Clooney ’s “Up In The Air” and more than 120 other productions.  Now the governor-elect, Republican Rick Snyder , wants to
curb the largesse. A state agency found the price of the program
-- which covers as much as 42 percent of local expenses --
exceeds the economic activity generated. Jobs created in 2009
cost the state about $193,000 each, the agency estimated.  Incentives for Hollywood have been scaled back in Wisconsin,
capped in Rhode Island, suspended in New Jersey, Iowa and Kansas
and scheduled to expire in Arizona. While states continue to
expand and introduce subsidies, programs around the country face
allegations of corruption, doubts about job-creating power and,
most of all, questions about affordability.  “We are starting to stem the tide of state government
pandering to the film industry,” said Bill  Ahern , policy
director for the Washington-based Tax Foundation, which
advocates lower taxes.  In the last five years, $3.5 billion in tax credits,
rebates and other financial assistance have gone to makers of
films, television shows and commercials, according to a
calculation by the foundation. In the next fiscal year, states
will face $72 billion in budget deficits, the National
Conference of State Legislatures estimates.  Banking Movie Credits  The subsidies began in Louisiana in 1992 and today are
offered by 42 states. A shakeout will halve the number in the
next decade as lawmakers conclude they can’t sustain funding,
according to Larry Brownell, head of the  Association of Film
Commissioners International  in Redondo Beach, California, which
represents every state with incentives except Massachusetts.  The breaks are worthwhile, creating spending that would
otherwise go to Hollywood, according to Vans Stevenson, senior
vice president of state legislative affairs at the Motion
Picture Association of America Inc. in Washington.  Most programs reimburse for a percentage of money spent in
the state. Among the beneficiaries are  Viacom Inc .’s Paramount
Pictures and  Time Warner  Inc.’s Warner Bros.  Calling the incentives credits is misleading because they
go beyond tax abatement, and beyond the film industry, said
 Robert Tannenwald , a former Boston Federal Reserve  Bank vice
president who studies the subsidies as a senior fellow at the
nonprofit  Center on Budget and Policy Priorities  in Washington.  Spending $1.5 Billion  In most states, unused credits can be returned for cash or
sold to other businesses. A Connecticut nonprofit’s freedom-of-
information demand forced the state to identify companies that
bought movie credits and used them to lower their tax bills. The
list, made public last year, included  Bank of America , Wachovia
Bank,  Hershey Co ., Comcast Inc., Provident Life & Casualty
Insurance Co. and Colonial Life & Accident Insurance Co.  That’s “outrageous,” Tannenwald said. “People are being
hoodwinked. There’s no reason for a government to finance a
financial institution in such a circuitous way.”  In a report last week, Tannenwald wrote that incentives in
43 states cost $1.5 billion in 2009. “They don’t come close to
paying for themselves,” he said.  Michigan illustrates the point, he said. It’s headed for a
$1.5 billion deficit next fiscal year, according to government
estimates, while its budget for film credits is $125 million.  “With that kind of money, we could have a citrus industry
in the Upper Peninsula,” said Michigan State University
economics professor Charles Ballard.  Tony Shalhoub’s Ads  New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie , a Republican, suspended
incentives covering 20 percent of costs on July 1 as part of his
austerity push, sending producers of NBC’s “Law & Order SVU”
to New York. In Arizona, lawmakers didn’t extend the 30-percent
credit running out at the end of next month. Kansas shelved its
credit, also for 30 percent of costs, for 2009 and 2010. Rhode
Island two years ago capped its program at $15 million annually.  Wisconsin last year slashed the amount the state can give
out in any year to $500,000 from an unlimited sum, spurring
Green Bay native  Tony Shalhoub  of TV’s “Monk” to make pro-
subsidy ads. Iowa’s program covered up to 50 percent of costs
until it was put on hold after an investigation by Attorney
General  Tom Miller  led to charges in February against two movie
producers and a former film office head.  The producers padded their expenses with $900 shovels and
$225 brooms and the ex-director failed to verify the eligibility
of applicants for incentives, prosecutors said. Trials are set
to begin in December. The probe was expanded last month after
state Auditor David Vauldt said up to $32 million -- or 80
percent -- of credits had been issued improperly.  ‘An Economic Stimulus’  In Louisiana in May, a promoter pleaded guilty to wire
fraud in a scheme to sell $1.9 million in bogus credits to New
Orleans Saints quarterback  Drew Brees  and other players.  Still, Louisiana isn’t retreating from movie subsidies.
California, worried about business leaking from the Los Angeles
area, began offering credits last year. New York recently
continued its program for five years, and Florida and Virginia
enacted new enticements.  “Even if you look over this past year, in a significant
economic downturn for the states in terms of revenue, these
credits have been sustained because I think the states are
recognizing that they are an economic stimulus,” said Stevenson
of the Motion Picture Association.  States need to compete for Hollywood’s business with
foreign countries as well as each other, according to Joseph
Chianese, marketing vice president for Entertainment Partners of
Burbank, California, which sells moviemaking-support services.
Twenty-two countries offer some form of incentives, up from 18
in 2009 and 13 in 2008, he said.  Popular in Poll  In Michigan, governor-elect Snyder, former president of
computer-maker Gateway Inc., said in a statement he wants to
“phase down” the state program “but in a fashion that would
support businesses that have made commitments to our emerging
film industry.” A pre-election poll of voters by EPIC/MRA
showed 58 percent favored subsidies; 33 percent were opposed.  State Senator  Nancy Cassis , a foe of credits, said the
program lacks transparency. Cassis, a Republican, said she has
been unable to get details from the Michigan Film Office of a
probe into a land deal for a proposed studio in Grand Rapids
known as Hangar42. The office’s director, Carrie Jones, said
state guidelines prohibit her from releasing the information.  One of the investors in Hangar42, Joseph Peters, 46, was
charged in August with attempted fraud in applying for a 25
percent infrastructure credit. Peters deliberately overvalued
the property by a factor of four, according to a statement by
Attorney General Mike Cox . Peters’s lawyer, Chip Chamberlain,
declined to comment.  ‘Absolutely Ridiculous’  Michigan’s program also includes job-training credits,
loans and other subsidies negotiated through the Michigan
Economic Growth Authority. While Alaska’s reimbursement can
cover as much as 44 percent of production costs, it applies
under limited conditions, making that state’s total package less
valuable than Michigan’s.  “When we voted on this proposal, people didn’t know how
generous it was,” Cassis said. The measure’s author, former
state Representative  Andy Meisner , called that assertion
“absolutely ridiculous.”  Meisner himself described the program inaccurately in a
Sept. 30 op-ed piece in the Oakland Press. “While we forgo 42
percent of tax revenues, we are getting 58 percent of tax
revenues that would not otherwise be produced,” wrote Meisner,
a Democrat who is now Oakland County treasurer. Reminded that
the state gives back up to 42 percent of costs, not taxes,
Meisner said, “I made a mistake.”  ‘Measure The Ripple’  In 2009, Michigan’s inducements created just 355 full-time
job, defined as those lasting at least 250 days, according to a
 September report  by the nonpartisan Senate Fiscal Agency. In the
two-plus years of the program’s existence, the return in tax
revenues has been a little more than 10 cents on a dollar spent,
according to the report’s author, economist David Zin.  The Michigan Film Office in its  annual 2009 report  said job
creation totaled 3,867, without classifying the positions by
days worked. Jones said Zin’s report failed to take into account
the multiplier effect, the total amount of money going into the
economy as crews patronize restaurants, hotels and dry cleaners.  “It’s like throwing a rock into a pond,” the film office
director said. “They’re measuring the splash. I’m trying to
measure the ripple.”  Even accounting for a multiplier effect, Zin said, Michigan
comes up short. He said the expected gain of $80 million in
economic activity from the subsidies this fiscal year would be
less than the $125 million the state is projected to spend.
Hollywood producers take a good deal of the reimbursement money
they get from Michigan back home with them, Zin said.  ‘A New Buzz’  Filmmaker and Flint native  Michael Moore  is trying to
reverse that trend, he said in an interview. He said he is using
the $1 million in a rebate from 2009’s  “Capitalism: A Love
Story”  to restore aging movie theaters in Michigan.  The subsidy program is important in part because the state
“is so far down in the toilet” economically, Moore said.  What helps make incentives popular, economist Zin said,
“is this big feel-good effect when Hollywood comes to town.”
The on-location making of ABC’s “Detroit 1-8-7,” starring
 Michael Imperioli , has energized the Motor City, according to
business owners. New customers show up daily for chili dogs at
American Coney Island, which has been featured in the cop drama,
said Grace Keros, the third-generation owner.  “It’s given the city a new buzz,” Keros said of the show.  Last year, director  Tony Goldwyn  filmed “Conviction” in
Detroit, Dearborn, Ypsilanti and other economically depressed
cities, working with a crew of 300.  ‘Hollywood Fat Cats’  “Critics say, why should we give incentives to the
Hollywood fat cats?” Goldwyn said in an interview. “But this
isn’t about the people who make the bigger money. This is about
the people who are living month-to-month, the people you never
see on the marquee.”  The state covered $3.9 million of the $10.8 million spent
on “Conviction” in Michigan, according to producer Andrew
Sugerman. Released in October and distributed by  News Corp .’s
Fox Searchlight Pictures, the movie has so far recorded $6.2
million in ticket sales, according to the research website Box
Office Mojo.  While Goldwyn was filming in 2009, lawmakers were under
pressure to close a $1.6-billion budget deficit for the 2010
fiscal year. They eventually cut $210 million from the higher
education system, among other moves, leaving the $100 million
for moviemakers untouched.  Jones, the Michigan Film Office director, said she saw
proof a movie industry was establishing itself in the 200,000
square foot  Raleigh Michigan Studios  in Pontiac and two new
sound stages in Detroit.  “It’s soon to judge the success of the credits,” she
said. “We need a little more time for the industry to take root
before we talk about changing the incentives.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Moroney  in Boston at 
 tmorrone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka in Boston at 
 gputka@bloomberg.net  