-- North Korean Attack on South Aimed at Restarting Nuclear Talks With U.S.
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2010-11-23T20:53:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/north-korean-attack-on-south-aimed-at-restarting-nuclear-talks-with-u-s-.html
North Korea’s attack on a South
Korean island, along with its disclosure of nuclear advances, is
part of a strategy to draw the U.S. back to the negotiating
table, analysts in the U.S. and Asia say.  It isn’t likely to succeed, and the result could be
increased tension between the U.S. and China, North Korea’s
closest ally, said the analysts, including  Bruce Klingner , a
former chief of the Central Intelligence Agency’s Korea branch.  “If anything, it’s likely to have the reverse effect, in
that Washington and Seoul are likely to be more determined to
resist” North Korean tactics, said Klingner, now a senior
fellow at the  Heritage Foundation , a Washington research group.  North Korea fired artillery shells yesterday at the South
Korean island of Yeonpyeong near the disputed border between the
two countries, killing two soldiers and setting houses ablaze in
the worst attack on its neighbor in at least eight months.  South Korea returned fire and scrambled fighter jets as
President  Lee Myung Bak  vowed to respond “sternly.” The clash
came 11 days after North Korea showed a uranium-enrichment plant
to visiting U.S. scientists.  The shelling can be viewed “as part of a campaign of
provocation to force South Korea and the U.S. back to the
negotiating table,” said Paul Stares, director of the Center
for Preventive Action at the  Council on Foreign Relations , a
Washington policy group.  Buying Silence  The North Korean strategy is “to be such a nuisance that
the U.S. says, ‘Enough, we’ll negotiate to buy your silence for
the time being,’” Stares said in a telephone interview.  The White House, which takes a two-track policy of pressure
and negotiations toward North Korea, issued a statement of
condemnation calling on the North to “halt its belligerent
action” and saying it was “firmly committed” to defend South
Korea.  At a Beijing press conference, U.S. envoy  Stephen Bosworth 
said the U.S. and China would coordinate on how to resume talks
between North Korea and the other nations that had been
negotiating over the North’s nuclear program: the U.S., South
Korea, China, Japan and Russia.  China’s Foreign Ministry spokesman  Hong Lei  told reporters
in Beijing that “We hope the parties do more to contribute to
peace and stability on the Korean peninsula.” Reports on North
Korea’s new uranium-enrichment plant underscore the need for
disarmament talks, Hong said.  “What is important is to restart six-party nuclear talks
at an early date,” he said.  Six-Party Talks  At the last six-party talks in December 2008, North Korea
pledged to abandon its program.  Negotiations came to a halt after North Korea launched a
rocket in April 2009. The U.S., South Korea and Japan have
accused the country of developing long-range missiles to carry
nuclear weapons. North Korea said the rocket was carrying a
communications satellite.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration called for tougher
international sanctions to punish the North Korean regime, which
went on in May 2009 to conduct its first nuclear test in three
years.  The United Nations Security Council responded in June 2009
by approving a U.S.-backed resolution to curb loans and money
transfers to Pyongyang.  The financial restrictions have left North Korea desperate
to restart talks, said  William Cohen , defense secretary under
former President  Bill Clinton .  “It’s ‘feed us before we kill again,’” he said in an
interview. “They need rice, they need food, they need fuel, and
this is their way of saying, ‘We’re going to misbehave and get
your attention back on our needs.’”  A failure of the strategy could “lead North Korea to
implement yet more escalations,” said Klingner.  Military Friction  Stares said the attack could be a flare-up of longstanding
military friction over sovereignty in the disputed maritime
area. He said it also may be a North Korean effort to burnish
the credentials of leader  Kim Jong Il ’s son and designated heir,
 Kim Jong Un , who made his public debut in September.  Obama and Lee have limited options in responding, said
 Andrei Lankov , an associate professor at Kookmin University in
Seoul.  “What can South Korea do apart from a bit of chest
beating?” Lankov said in a telephone interview. “If they reply
with artillery or shelling some North Korean positions” it will
make things “more difficult,” he said.  Toshimitsu Shigemura , a professor at Waseda University in
Tokyo, said China would make it hard to impose additional UN
sanctions against North Korea. “China would block them,” he
said.  Klinger said that China’s failure to “respond in a proper
manner and pressure North Korea” was already fraying U.S.-China
ties.  Sailors Killed  After the March 26 sinking of the South Korean naval vessel
Cheonan that killed 46 sailors, China refused to accept the
findings of an international investigation that found evidence
North Korea was responsible and rejected U.S. requests to
pressure the North.  “The bloom is off the Chinese rose because the U.S. now
sees that it really has not been helpful in the six-party talks
and has been more of an impediment than a catalyst for
progress,” Klingner said.  China has its reasons for keeping North Korea appeased,
Stares said. A failed North Korean state could lead to a unified
Korea and the potential extension of U.S. power on China’s
border, he said. The U.S. has about 25,000 troops in the South.  “China does not want to pressure North Korea so much that
it essentially collapses,” Stares said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Gaouette  in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  