-- North Korea’s ‘Belligerent’ Bombing of South Rebuked
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2010-11-23T15:38:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/north-korea-s-attack-on-southern-island-draws-criticism-from-u-s-europe.html
North Korea’s attack on a civilian-
populated South Korean island near their disputed border drew
rebukes from the U.S. and European governments along with
warnings that the exchange of artillery fire threatened regional
peace.  South Korea scrambled fighter jets and returned artillery
fire after North Korea provoked the peninsula’s most serious
confrontation in decades by lobbing dozens of shells onto
Yeonpyeong island, located near the border of both countries on
the peninsula’s west coast. The shelling killed two South Korean
soldiers and wounded at least 14.  “The United States strongly condemns this attack and calls
on North Korea to halt its belligerent action,” the White House
said today in a statement. The U.S., which  stations  about 25,000
troops in South Korea, is in contact with Seoul’s government,
the statement said.  United Nations  Secretary-General  Ban Ki-moon  condemned the
attack, calling it “one of the gravest incidents since the end
of the Korean War.” A former South Korean foreign minister, a
statement released at the UN said Ban was “deeply concerned”
by the incident and urged “immediate restraint.”  Tensions with North Korea have risen in the past year after
the sinking of a South Korean warship, the Cheonan, in March
that killed 46 sailors. President  Barack Obama  dispatched his
envoy,  Stephen Bosworth , to Asia this week after reports by a
U.S. scientist that North Korea had revealed a new uranium-
enrichment plant.  ‘Very Undesirable’  North Korea initiated the exchange of artillery fire with
South Korea, Bosworth told reporters in Beijing at a news
conference after meeting with Chinese officials. The U.S. and
China share the view that “such conflict is very undesirable,”
and agreed that all sides should exercise restraint, Bosworth
said.  Bosworth said his talks with China on North Korea’s
revelations concerning uranium enrichment “very useful,” and
included a “full exchange of views.” The U.S. and China have
agreed to continue coordination and consultation on the uranium-
enrichment issue, he said.  North Korea is seeking to extract concessions from
countries that oppose its nuclear program, said  Jan Techau , an
analyst at the NATO Defense College in Rome.  “The North Koreans are always trying to blackmail the rest
of the world,” Techau said in a phone interview. “A few years
ago they were firing missiles and now they’re firing shells.”  China expressed “concern” over the North Korean shelling.  Contribute to Peace  “We hope the parties do more to contribute to peace and
stability on the Korean Peninsula,” Foreign Ministry spokesman
 Hong Lei  told reporters in Beijing. Reports on North Korea’s new
uranium-enrichment plant underscore the need for disarmament
talks, Hong said.  China’s role will be crucial in damping the conflict, said
 Shada Islam , an Asia expert at the Brussels-based European
Policy Centre.  “This will require diplomacy by China which is the only
country that has any clout in North Korea,” Islam said in a
telephone interview.  U.K. Foreign Minister  William Hague  said he “strongly
condemns” the North Korean attack. German Foreign Minister
 Guido Westerwelle  said the “military provocation endangers
peace in the region.”  Russian Border  Russia’s Foreign Ministry expressed “deep concern” over
the artillery exchange. “Russia decisively condemns any use of
force between states and proceeds from the position that all
existing disputes should be resolved exclusively by political
and diplomatic means,” the ministry said on its website.  Russia, which shares a border with North Korea, called for
restraint from both sides, according to the statement.  Taiwan urged North and South Korea to exercise restraint so
as to maintain peace and stability in the Korean peninsula,
 Johnny Chiang , the island’s Cabinet spokesman, said at a
briefing broadcast on local television.  “The nastiness will probably continue for at least a few
days,”  Kenneth Quinones , former U.S. State Department director
of North Korean affairs and a professor at Akita International
University in Japan, said in an interview. “I would expect some
UN Security Council action very, very soon.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  