-- Nuance Gains as Wozniak Wrongly Says Apple Bought It
-- B y   K a t i e   H o f f m a n n
-- 2010-11-23T21:17:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/nuance-jumps-most-in-19-months-as-steve-wozniak-says-apple-has-bought-it.html
Nuance Communications Inc. , the U.S.
maker of speech-recognition software, advanced in Nasdaq trading
after an online video showed an Apple Inc. co-founder mistakenly
saying the iPhone maker had acquired the company.  In an e-mailed message today, co-founder  Steve Wozniak 
wrote that he had made an error when he said Apple “recently
bought” Nuance in a  video clip  posted on TVDeck on Nov. 18.  He also mentioned “Siri” in the same sentence. In April,
Apple agreed to buy mobile-application developer Siri Inc. to
gain voice-recognition technology.  Nuance’s  shares  pared their gains after Wozniak’s apology,
leaving the stock up 64 cents, or 3.7 percent, at $17.75 as of 4
p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares
had risen as much as 12 percent, the biggest intraday gain for
the Burlington, Massachusetts-based company since April 17,
2009. The stock has added 14 percent this year.  Wozniak, Apple’s lead engineer until 1985, is no longer
employed by the company.  Steve Dowling , a spokesman for Apple,
and  Richard Mack , a spokesman for Nuance, declined to comment.  Nuance, which has boosted sales for at least five years,
gets more than 45 percent of its  revenue  from speech-recognition
software in the mobile market. With a market value of about $5.2
billion, Nuance would likely be Apple’s largest purchase since
Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  took over in 1997.  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, fell $4.63, or 1.5
percent, to $308.73. The shares have gained 47 percent this
year.  Acquisition History  Scott Sutherland , an analyst at Wedbush Securities Inc. in
San Francisco, said a Nuance acquisition wouldn’t make sense,
mainly because Apple is developing a lot of its own products for
speech recognition, he said.  Last year, Apple hired a Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
investment banker to help the company acquire companies. Jobs
has bought 14 businesses, including four this year, since
becoming CEO.  Wozniak, who founded Apple with Jobs, this week clarified
comments he made about the company’s mobile operating system and
Google Inc.’s Android software, according to the Daily
Telegraph. He sought to make clearer remarks made to a Dutch
newspaper in which he appeared to say Android was superior to
the iPhone’s operating system, the Telegraph reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katie Hoffmann  in New York at 
 khoffmann4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 