-- Obama Promotes Auto Rebirth in Kokomo, One of `Dying Towns'
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2010-11-23T20:12:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/obama-to-promote-auto-rebirth-in-one-of-fastest-dying-towns-.html
President  Barack Obama  defended the
federal aid to  General Motors Co . and Chrysler Group LLC, saying
it was the “right decision” to save a major sector of the
economy and the jobs that go with it.  Obama stopped today in Kokomo, Indiana, a town hard hit by
the recession and the struggles of the auto industry seeking to
convince a skeptical public that his $814 billion stimulus and
the bailouts of GM and Chrysler are paying economic dividends.  “Even as we continue to face serious challenges, what’s
happening here at this plant, the changes we’re seeing
throughout Kokomo are signs of hope and confidence in the
future,” Obama said after touring a Chrysler transmission
manufacturing plant.  Chrysler, the U.S. automaker operated by Fiat SpA,
announced today it is looking to invest a total of $1.2 billion
in its Kokomo manufacturing plants.  Sergio Marchionne , chief
executive officer of Chrysler and Fiat, was at the Kokomo
facility along with Obama.  The visit to Indiana is Obama’s first domestic trip since
the Nov. 2 midterm elections, in which Democrats lost their
majority in the House of Representatives to Republicans, largely
on voter concern about the economy. Obama has described the
outcome as a “shellacking” for his party and said many
Americans viewed the bailouts and the stimulus as an
“overreach” by the government.  Political Impact  In Indiana, Democrats lost a Senate seat and two of the
five congressional districts that they held. Statewide, the
Democrat’s Senate candidate,  Brad Ellsworth , took 40 percent of
the vote, compared with the 49.9 that Obama captured when he
became the first Democratic presidential candidate to win the
state in 44 years.  Obama also urged Congress to act in the next few weeks to
extend income tax cuts for middle-income Americans. He said he’s
ready to meet with Democratic and Republican congressional
leaders to find a compromise.  Obama repeated his opposition to a permanent extension of
the current tax rates for the wealthiest Americans. Republicans
are pushing to extend all the tax rates, which were passed
during the administration of President  George W. Bush . The
current rates are set to expire at the end of this year without
action by Congress.  Tax Debate  “The last thing we can afford to do right now is raise
taxes on middle-class families,” Obama said. “I am eager to
sit down with members of both parties and hammer this out. But
we’ve got to hammer it out.”  Indiana has been hit by shifts in the U.S. economy and the
recession. The state has lost 231,000  manufacturing jobs  over
the last decade and 31,000 since January 2009, when Obama took
office, according to Bureau of Labor Statistics data. The
unemployment rate was 10.1 percent in September, compared with
the  national average  of 9.6 percent.  Obama said helping the auto industry restructure “wasn’t
an easy call” and the move had many critics.  “But we also knew that millions of jobs hung in the
balance,” he said. “We also knew that the very survival of
places like Kokomo were on the line.”  Kokomo was labeled one of “America’s Fastest Dying Towns”
by  Forbes  magazine in 2008 because of declines in auto and
manufacturing jobs. By June 2009, the unemployment rate in the
 Kokomo  metropolitan area, where Chrysler and auto parts supplier
 Delphi Automotive LLP  are among the biggest employers, hit 19.6
percent. In September it was 11 percent.  ‘Big Burden’  Before the auto bailout and passage of the stimulus package,
Chrysler and Delphi were shutting down production facilities and
shedding workers.  “That was a pretty big burden on the city,” said Gary
Cameron, Delphi’s director of engineering for power electronics
in Kokomo.  Along with the Chrysler investment in the Kokomo facility,
Delphi matched an $89 million in federal stimulus grant to
establish a new hybrid vehicle component manufacturing plant
that supports 119 jobs, Cameron said.  “It definitely improved our competitive position,” he
said. “Kokomo is obviously a manufacturing site today because
of the stimulus-partnership money.”  In an Oct. 7-10 Bloomberg National Poll, 34 percent of
adults said they believed the automaker bailouts would lead to a
stronger economy, while 41 percent said it would weaken the
economy.  The president “needs to show where there have been
successes, and Kokomo has been one of those places,”  Greg Goodnight , the city’s mayor, a Democrat, said. “He has to show
people that we’re heading in the right direction.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Kokomo, Indiana, at 
 Hnichols2@bloomberg.net 
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  