-- Obama Dispatches Aircraft Carrier to Yellow Sea After North Korean Attack
-- B y   B o m i   L i m   a n d   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 2010-11-24T20:46:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/obama-to-call-south-korea-s-lee-after-attack-by-north-kills-two-soldiers.html
The U.S. sent an aircraft carrier
for military exercises off the Korean Peninsula in a show of
strength after North Korea fired artillery onto South Korean
territory for the first time in half a century.  President  Barack Obama  dispatched the USS  George Washington 
to take part in the drills, scheduled for Nov. 28 to Dec. 1 in
the Yellow Sea off the Korean Peninsula’s western coast, and the
U.S. administration pressed China to use its influence on  Kim Jong Il ’s government to ease tension in the region.  “The United States stands shoulder to shoulder with our
close friend and ally,” Obama told South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  Lee in a Nov. 23 telephone call, according to a White
House statement. North Korea must stop its “provocative
actions, which will only lead to further isolation.” The two
leaders agreed that further sanctions against North Korea may be
necessary, Lee’s office said in a statement.  Obama plans to call Chinese President  Hu Jintao  to discuss
the incident, according to administration officials, who spoke
on condition of anonymity because the conversation hadn’t been
set up. China is North Korea’s biggest economic and political
ally.  “China does have influence with North Korea and we would
hope and expect China would use that influence,” U.S. State
Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said yesterday.  Admiral  Michael Mullen , chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff, said that Chinese leadership “is absolutely critical”
in dealing with North Korea.  Succession Question  North Korea’s action “is also tied, we think, to the
succession of this young 27-year-old who’s going to take over at
some point in the future,” Mullen said in an interview on the
ABC program “The View,” referring to the North Korean leader’s
youngest son,  Kim Jong-Un .  Before speaking with Lee, Obama met in the White House
Situation Room with his top security advisers, including Mullen,
National Security Adviser  Tom Donilon , Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton , Defense Secretary  Robert Gates , and United
Nations Ambassador  Susan Rice , the White House said.  Tensions with North Korea have risen in the past year after
the sinking of the South Korean warship Cheonan in March killed
46 sailors. Obama this week dispatched envoy  Stephen Bosworth  to
Asia after a U.S. scientist  reported  that North Korea said it
had built a uranium-enrichment plant.  “The combination of the enrichment revelations and then
this artillery attack really make it a front-burner issue” for
the U.S., said  Victor Cha , who holds the Korea Chair at the
Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington.  Raised Alert  South Korea raised its military alert status to the second-
highest level after North Korea on Nov. 23 fired onto the island
of Yeonpyeong, Defense Minister  Kim Tae Young  said in Seoul.
Four people were killed and 20 wounded, mostly soldiers, in the
first attack of its kind since the 1950-1953 Korean War.  Japan’s Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  yesterday called the
incident a “barbaric act.” His government will consider fresh
sanctions against North Korea, Economy Minister  Banri Kaieda 
said.  Japan in May tightened controls on sending money to North
Korea in response to the Cheonan sinking, lowering the cap on
undeclared cash transfers to 3 million yen ($36,000) from 10
million yen.  German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle , speaking in
parliament in Berlin, said he’d summoned the North Korean
ambassador to communicate Germany’s anger over the artillery
salvo. Chancellor  Angela Merkel  condemned the attack in the
“strongest terms” in a telephone call with Lee, a government
statement said.  Artillery Exchange  North Korea initiated the exchange of artillery fire,
Bosworth told reporters in Beijing on Nov. 23 after meeting with
Chinese officials.  The North Korean army’s Supreme Command, in a statement
issued through the official Korean Central News Agency, accused
South Korea of firing first and warned of “merciless military
attacks” if its territory is violated.  China is increasingly frustrated with the actions of its
ally North Korea, though there likely won’t be any immediate
change to Chinese policy,  Zhu Feng , a professor of international
relations at Peking University, said in an interview.  “This attack proves that North Korea is entirely a minus
to China’s foreign policy,” Zhu said. “I see growing
frustration and I see a new imperative to overhaul the policy.”  China’s Response  “We hope the parties do more to contribute to peace and
stability on the Korean Peninsula,” China’s Foreign Ministry
spokesman  Hong Lei  told reporters in Beijing on Nov. 23.  Christopher Hill , a former U.S. ambassador to South Korea
and a former assistant secretary of state, said China has a
crucial role in resolving the crisis.  “Neither the U.S. nor the South Koreans can address this
issue without China,” Hill said in a Bloomberg Television
interview. “This has to be addressed and I think that China is
probably the key in addressing it.”  Shada Islam , an Asia expert at the European Policy Centre
in Brussels, said national interests will determine when China
loses patience with North Korea.  “China doesn’t believe in megaphone diplomacy in most
cases, so don’t judge Beijing by its public statements but
rather by what they do behind the scenes,” Islam said in an
interview. “The Chinese leadership isn’t worried about how the
world sees them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nicholas Johnston  in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net ;
 Bomi Lim  in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  