-- Lockheed F-35 JSF Version for Air Force Is `Moving Along,' General Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2010-11-23T20:29:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/lockheed-f-35-air-force-version-is-moving-along-general-says.html
The U.S. Air Force version of
 Lockheed Martin Corp. ’s F-35 jet is “moving along,” the
service’s top uniformed official said, as the Marine Corps’
model lags behind its test schedule.  “That part of the program looks pretty good,” Air Force
Chief of Staff General  Norton Schwartz  told reporters today at a
breakfast meeting in Washington.  The Air Force variant will account for at least 1,743 Joint
Strike Fighters from a planned production run of 2,457 jets as
the Defense Department buys different versions to replace
warplanes now flown by that service, the Navy and the Marines.  Development and combat testing on the $382 billion JSF
program, the Pentagon’s costliest weapons project, are running
more than four years late, with recent difficulties centering on
the Marines’ short-takeoff, vertical-landing version. As of Nov.
20, the Marine Corps model has made 193 of 232 test flights
planned by that date, said  John Kent , a spokesman for Bethesda,
Maryland-based Lockheed.  Lockheed fell 38 cents to $68.26 at 3:04 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The  shares  dropped 8.9 percent
this year before today.  The Air Force plane is ahead of schedule on test flights,
has stable software and experienced “no failures or surprises”
in its structure, Schwartz said.  Software development on the Air Force F-35 may slip, so the
service “doesn’t have a complete understanding” of whether the
JSF’s target for entering front-line service in 2016 would be
affected, he said. The air forces of Italy, the Netherlands,
Turkey, Canada, Australia, Denmark, Norway and Israel are also
buying the Air Force model.  Third Pentagon Review  The F-35 was the subject yesterday of a third Pentagon
review in less than a year. Officials assessed production at
Lockheed’s Fort Worth plants, results of flight tests and
software engineering, and technical matters such as the Marine
model’s structure, Colonel  David Lapan , a spokesman, said in an
e-mail.  “This information is being refined and will be the basis
for the department’s decisions about what cost and schedule
assumptions to make in preparing the fiscal 2012 budget,” Lapan
said.  The Air Force model, with 89 planned test flights, has
flown 155 times, and the Navy’s carrier version has made 21 of
the 23 test flights planned for that period, Kent, the Lockheed
spokesman, said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Capaccio  in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  