-- Offshore-Wind Permits to Be Streamlined by U.S.
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2010-11-23T23:01:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/offshore-wind-permits-to-be-streamlined-by-u-s-interior-secretary-says.html
The U.S. will move faster to approve
wind-power farms off the Atlantic Coast in an effort to attract
investors and jump-start offshore renewable energy, Interior
Secretary  Ken Salazar  said.  Regulators will identify promising areas for wind
development and try to resolve potential conflicts with states
and federal agencies over issues such as shipping lanes before
leases are offered, Salazar said today. Under the initiative,
new leases may be issued late next year or early in 2012, he
said.  It took the federal government almost a decade before
granting approval in April to Cape Wind off the coast of
Massachusetts, the first wind farm in U.S. waters. State
regulators approved yesterday a contract permitting the project
to sell electricity from its 130 turbines.  “Wind potential off the Atlantic coast is staggering,”
Salazar said during an appearance in Baltimore. “There is, I
think, a singular, unique opportunity to do something that’s
major to take care of the power needs of America.”  The federal government controls the Outer Continental Shelf
off the Atlantic Coast, a region that theoretically could
provide more than 1,000 gigawatts, enough to power 800 million
typical homes, Salazar said.  The U.S. generates more power from wind than any nation,
all from turbines on land, according to the Washington-based
 American Wind Energy Association . In October,  Google Inc. , the
Web company that a decade ago used engineering prowess to become
the leader in online advertising, said it’s investing in a $5
billion underwater network that can channel electricity from
wind turbines scattered off the Atlantic coast.  Environment, Economy  “As the pipeline of projects begin to move forward more
rapidly, the environmental and economic benefits of offshore
wind, including manufacturing facilities and associated jobs,
can be realized,”  Denise Bode , chief executive officer of the
wind-energy association, said in an interview. Today’s
announcement will help speed permits for wind turbines and
“level the playing field” with other forms of offshore energy
production, she said.  NRG Bluewater, a unit of  NRG Energy Inc. , is developing
wind projects off the coasts of New York, Delaware, Maryland,
New Jersey and Rhode Island. Its Delaware project in 2008 won a
25-year contract to supply as much as 200 megawatts of power to
a unit of  Pepco Holdings Inc .  ‘Steel in the Water’  “We’re pleased with the announcement to move forward with
offshore wind and to streamline the permitting process,”  Peter Mandelstam , founder and president of NRG Bluewater, said today
in a telephone interview. “This helps get steel in the water.”  Over the next 60 days, the Interior Department will
identify “wind energy zones” said Deputy Interior Secretary
 David Hayes . In the following six months, regulators will gather
information from states, federal agencies such as the Defense
Department and the Federal Aviation Administration and
environmental groups to help determine which areas may be
developed.  “We will have at the end of 6 months, we believe, an
unprecedented amount of information that we can then provide to
the investing public,” Hayes said. “At that point, we will
say, ‘Who wants to come and lease in these areas?’”  In January 2011, the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, the
Interior Department unit that oversees offshore energy
production, will conduct an environmental assessment of
potential impacts of the sites targeted for development. If no
significant effects are found, leases will be offered by the end
of 2011.  “People need jobs and energy,” Andrew Sharpless, chief
executive officer of  Oceana , a Washington-based environmental
group, said in a statement. “Ocean wind power, unlike ocean oil
drilling, is a great way to do both.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Efstathiou Jr . in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  