-- Oil Drops Fourth Day on European Debt Crisis, Stockpile Increase
-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2010-11-23T23:56:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/oil-drops-fourth-day-on-european-debt-crisis-stockpile-increase.html
Oil fell for a fourth day in New
York amid speculation that Europe’s debt crisis will spread and
crimp economic growth, while an industry-funded report showed
U.S. crude inventories gained last week.  Futures declined as the dollar strengthened against the
euro, curbing demand for raw materials. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said the euro is in an “exceptionally serious”
situation. A report from the American Petroleum Institute showed
stockpiles  rose  5.19 million barrels to 357.7 million last week,
the biggest increase since the week ended Oct. 22.  “The market’s concerned about European contagion with
Portugal going next and Spain probably being the coup de
grace,” said  Stephen Schork , president of consultant Schork
Group Inc. in Villanova, Pennsylvania.  The January contract slipped as much as 28 cents, or 0.3
percent, to $80.97 a barrel, in electronic trading on the New
York Mercantile Exchange, and was at $81.08 at 10:12 a.m. Sydney
time. Yesterday, it fell 49 cents, or 0.6 percent, to $81.25.
Prices are up 2.2 percent this year.  Ireland this week asked for a financial bailout from the
European Union and International Monetary Fund. Yields on
Spanish and Portuguese debt rose as the Irish rescue raised the
risk of escalating the crisis to southern European nations with
large budget deficits. Spain’s 10-year yield spread over German
bunds widened to a euro-era record.  The dollar gained 1.9 percent to $1.3367 per euro
yesterday. It was the first time the euro dropped below $1.34
since September. The U.S. currency also rose as North Korea and
South Korea exchanged artillery fire, fueling demand for safer
assets.  Oil Supplies  An Energy Department report today  will probably  show U.S.
crude inventories declined 2 million barrels last week from
357.6 million a week earlier, according to the median of 16
analysts in a Bloomberg News survey. The report is scheduled to
be released at 10:30 a.m. in Washington.  The Petroleum Institute collects stockpile information on a
voluntary basis from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and
pipelines. The government requires that reports be filed with
the Energy Department for its weekly survey.  U.S. gasoline demand at the pump fell 0.9 percent to
average 9.12 million barrels a day in the week ended Nov. 19,
MasterCard Inc. reported yesterday in its SpendingPulse report.
The decrease was the fourth in five weeks.  Brent crude for January settlement declined 71 cents, or
0.9 percent, to $83.25 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margot Habiby in Dallas at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell in Singapore at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  