-- Oil Supply Drops in Survey as U.S. Refinery Demand Climbs: Energy Markets
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2010-11-23T20:33:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/oil-supply-drops-in-survey-as-u-s-refinery-demand-climbs-energy-markets.html
U.S. crude-oil  supplies  probably
dropped to their lowest level in three months as refinery demand
increased with the end of seasonal maintenance, a Bloomberg News
survey showed.  Inventories fell 2 million barrels, or 0.6 percent, in the
seven days ended Nov. 19 from 357.6 million a week earlier,
according to the median of 16 analyst estimates before an Energy
Department report tomorrow. It would be a third week of declines
and leave stockpiles at the lowest level since Aug. 13. Fourteen
of the respondents forecast a decrease and two predicted a gain.  Companies shut units for maintenance in autumn when
gasoline use falls and winter heating-oil demand has yet to
increase. The crack spread, or profit for processing three
barrels of oil into two of gasoline and one of heating oil, rose
to a four-month high last week as fuel demand climbed.  “Refinery utilization is likely to rise as seasonal
maintenance ends,” said  Jason Schenker , president of Prestige
Economics LLC, an Austin, Texas-based energy consultant.
“Product demand is up and refinery demand for crude is higher
as well. We should see further draws in the weeks ahead.”  Crude oil for January delivery declined 49 cents, or 0.6
percent, to settle at $81.25 a barrel today on the New York
Mercantile Exchange. Futures have dropped 8.3 percent since
touching a two-year intraday high of $88.63 on Nov. 11, on
speculation that China will raise interest rates and concern
that Europe’s debt crisis will spread.  Refinery Operations  Refinery  operations  surged 1.6 percentage points to 84
percent of capacity in the week ended Nov. 12, the biggest gain
since August, last week’s Energy Department report showed.
Refinery runs, or the amount of crude oil input to processing
units,  increased  1.5 percent to 14.3 million barrels a day
during the period, the highest level since September.  Refineries probably  bolstered operating rates 0.4
percentage point to 84.4 percent last week, the highest level
since September, according to the Bloomberg News survey.  Hess Corp. , the New York City-based oil company, said it
returned to normal production levels at its Port Reading, New
Jersey, refinery over the weekend. The company completed work on
a fluid catalytic cracker after idling production last week. The
plant can produce about 70,000 barrels a day of gasoline and
other fuels, according to the company’s  website .  Husky Energy Inc.  completed maintenance on a coker and
fluid catalytic cracker at its Lima, Ohio, refinery and has
begun the restart process,  Graham White , a company spokesman,
said yesterday. The plant can process 155,000 barrels of oil a
day, according to data compiled by Bloomberg News.  Crack Spread  The  crack spread  jumped to $13.093 a barrel on Nov. 18, the
highest level since June. The margin was up 0.6 percent at
$9.046 at 3:09 p.m., based on New York futures prices.  “Some refiners probably want to book sales before the end
of the year,”  John Felmy , chief economist with the Washington-
based American Petroleum Institute, said in a telephone
interview.  Imports  of crude oil fell 2.8 percent to 7.86 million
barrels a day in the week ended Nov. 12, the lowest level since
December, last week’s Energy Department report showed.  Some analysts say refiners are also lowering inventories to
reduce their assets at the end of the year.  “The inventory drops are principally a function of
refinery inventory management,” said  Tim Evans , an energy
analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in New York. “There are two
ways refiners can reduce stockpiles. They can cut imports or
increase refinery runs.”  Demand Increase  Total consumption of  petroleum products  averaged 19.3
million barrels a day in the four weeks ended Nov. 12, up 3.7
percent from 18.6 million during the same period a year earlier,
according to the Energy Department.  “It’s primarily a crude-oil story this week,” said  Tom Pawlicki , an analyst at MF Global Holdings Ltd. in Chicago.
“Refineries have been increasing operating rates this month.”  Gasoline stockpiles  decreased 1.25 million barrels, or 0.6
percent, from 207.7 million, the survey showed. The drop would
leave supplies at the lowest level since August 2009. Seventeen
respondents gave product-supply estimates. Twelve of the
analysts projected a decline, three forecast an increase and two
said there was no change.  Supplies of  distillate fuel , a category that includes
heating oil and diesel, probably fell 1.5 million barrels, or
0.9 percent, from 158.8 million, the survey showed. Fifteen of
the analysts anticipated a slide and two said there was no
change.  The department is scheduled to release its weekly report at
10:30 a.m. tomorrow in Washington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Shenk  in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 