-- Rousseff Names Tombini Central Bank President, Mantega as Finance Minister
-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i   a n d   I u r i   D a n t a s
-- 2010-11-24T20:51:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/tombini-said-to-be-appointed-brazil-central-bank-head-to-replace-meirelles.html
(Corrects name of university in seventh paragraph.)  Brazilian President-elect  Dilma Rousseff  appointed  Alexandre Tombini  as central bank president
and vowed to keep the policies that helped her predecessor slow
inflation to about 5 percent last month from as high as 17
percent in 2003.  Rousseff also appointed  Miriam Belchior  as planning
minister and kept Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  at his post,
according to a statement from Rousseff’s press office
distributed in Brasilia today. The 46-year-old Tombini, who has
served as a board member since 2005, will replace  Henrique Meirelles , 65, Brazil’s longest-serving central bank chief.  The Bovespa index of most-traded stocks increased almost
sixfold under Meirelles and the real more than doubled against
the dollar, becoming the best performer amid the 16 most-traded
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. By tapping Tombini, Rousseff is
seeking to extend policies that helped Brazil win its first
investment grade rating in 2008, said  Tony Volpon , a Latin
America strategist at Nomura Securities in New York.  “The fact that it is him instead of someone else ensures
the central bank won’t be taken by a new heterodox philosophy --
that there will be continuity,” Volpon said in a phone
interview.  Meirelles, appointed in 2003, will remain at the post until
the end of President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva’s administration
on Dec. 31.  Tombini, Mantega and Belchior will hold a press conference
in Brasilia at 4 p.m. Brasilia time, according to the press
office.  Approval Needed  Tombini, who has a doctorate in economics from the
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, will need to be
approved by the Senate.  The real gained 0.75 percent to 1.7227 per U.S. dollar at
2:35 p.m. in Sao Paulo. The yield on interest rate futures
contracts due in January 2012 rose 5 basis points to 11.88
percent.  Before joining the Brasilia-based central bank, Tombini was
the senior adviser to Brazil’s executive director at the
International Monetary Fund. He’s one of eight people who vote
to set interest rates in Brazil. The individual votes aren’t
made public.  “This is the right moment to end the mission,” Meirelles
told reporters in Brasilia today. “Mission accomplished.”  Rousseff appointed Miriam Belchior as planning minister,
replacing  Paulo Bernardo . The president-elect invited Bernardo
to her cabinet in a position that will be determined later, he
told reporters in Brasilia.  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Brazilian debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries has fallen to 189 basis points from
1,446 basis points on Dec. 31, 2002, the day before Lula took
office, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ index.  “Tombini is an excellent choice for the central bank, his
nomination should be well received by the markets,”  Marcelo Carvalho , head of Latin American research at BNP Paribas in Sao
Paulo said in an e-mailed interview. “He is highly qualified,
has a solid academic background, important international
experience and a strong professional reputation.”  Latin America’s biggest economy will expand 7.6 percent this
year, the fastest pace in more than two decades, according to
the median forecast in a central bank survey of about 100
economists.  Futures Contracts  Yields on interest rate future contracts rose across the
board on Monday amid speculation that Rousseff would replace
Meirelles and end the bank’s operational autonomy, potentially
skewing policy in favor of economic growth at the expense of
faster inflation.  “Tombini has a good education, he’s a professional,” said
 Pedro Tuesta , a Washington-based economist for Latin America at
4Cast Inc. “The problem is that this gives the impression that
Dilma wants to have greater control of the central bank. I’m not
saying that’s the way it is. She gives us that impression, and
the impression has a certain base.”  Central bank policy makers are appointed and removed by the
country’s president and aren’t limited by set terms. Lula
appointed Meirelles to replace  Arminio Fraga  at the start of his
term.  Traders are wagering policy makers will be forced to resume
interest rate increases early next year and push the benchmark
interest rate to as high as 12.75 percent by the end of 2011,
according to Bloomberg estimates based on interest rate futures.  “There’s a wide gap between the market pricing in what is
needed and what some policy makers are hoping to be able to
accomplish,” said  Gray Newman , chief Latin America economist at
Morgan Stanley in New York, who expects the bank to raise rates
to 12.5 percent next year.  “There’s a showdown coming,” said Newman. “The market is
expecting a pretty significant series of rate hikes and yet I
think the new policy team is trying to adopt measures that will
allow the central bank to cut rates.”  Rising Inflation  Bond traders are betting Brazil will miss its  inflation 
target for the first time since 2003 as commodity prices jump
and concern builds that Rousseff will fail to curb spending.  Investor expectations for annual inflation over the next
two years, implied by the yield difference between the
government’s inflation-linked and fixed-rate notes, rose to 6.68
percent as of yesterday, the highest since November 2008. That
gap, known as the breakeven rate, tops the 6.5 percent upper
limit in the bank’s target range for consumer price increases.  By tapping a policy maker who has worked under Meirelles, a
former head of global banking at FleetBoston Financial Corp. for
more than five years, Rousseff may be seeking to ease investor
concerns.  “The Brazil market has matured enough that the change in a
member of the central bank doesn’t imply great movements in the
market as long as we know the philosophical position of the new
central banker,” said  Alfredo Coutino , Latin America director
for Moody’s Analytics. “A person from the same board should
bring relative calm to the markets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andre Soliani  in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
 Arnaldo Galvao  in Brasilia at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  