-- Money Market Rate Climbs to Seven-Week High on Interest Rate Speculation
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-23T02:48:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/money-market-rate-climbs-to-seven-week-high-on-interest-rate-speculation.html
China’s benchmark  money-market rate 
rose to the highest level in almost seven weeks on speculation
policy makers will lift borrowing costs again after raising
lenders’ reserve requirements last week to tame inflation.  China’s central bank adviser Xia Bin said the nation should
further tighten monetary policy next year due to the pressure of
excessive liquidity at home and abroad, the Shanghai-based
Oriental Morning Post newspaper reported yesterday. The People’s
Bank of China said Nov. 19 it would lift the amount of cash
banks must set aside as reserves by 50 basis points from Nov.
29. A press official at the central bank, who refused to be
identified, declined to comment.  “Future rate hikes and inflation-curbing measures are now
more adequately priced in but the bias for higher rates will
remain until the next rate hike materializes,” said Delphine
Arrighi, a Hong Kong-based strategist at Standard Chartered Plc.
“We still see another 25 basis point interest-rate increase by
the end of this year, and another three increases, all of 25
basis points, within the first half of next year,” she said.  The  seven-day repurchase rate , which measures lending costs
between banks, advanced by two basis points to 2.22 percent as
of 10:23 a.m. in Shanghai, according to the National Interbank
Funding Center. That is the highest since Oct. 8, when the rate
was at 2.70 percent. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point  Six-month interest-rate swaps, the fixed rate needed to
receive the floating seven-day repo rate, rose 10 basis points
to 2.82 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The People’s Bank completed a one-year bill sale in open
market operations today, keeping the yield unchanged for a
second week at 2.3437 percent. The central bank sold 2 billion
yuan of the bills, the lowest amount since July 2008 due to
declining demand for the securities from banks.  The central bank boosted its benchmark one-year lending
rate on Oct. 19 by a quarter of a percentage point to 5.56
percent, the first increase since 2007. It raised the deposit
rate by the same margin to 2.5 percent.  A government report on Nov. 11 showed the inflation rate
quickened to 4.4 percent in October from a year earlier, the
fastest pace since October 2008, according to official data.  -- Sonja Cheung . Editors: Andrew Janes, Sandy Hendry  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Cheung in Hong Kong at 
 scheung58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  