-- Hong Kong Stocks Fall Most in Six Months on Korea Shelling
-- B y   H a n n y   W a n
-- 2010-11-23T09:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/hong-kong-stocks-decline-for-third-day-banks-drop-jiangxi-bawang-slump.html
Hong Kong stocks  extended declines
after North and South Korea exchanged fire, sending the
benchmark index down by the most in six months. Shares earlier
fell amid concern China will step up measures to curb inflation.  Standard Chartered Plc, which received 10 percent of its
2009 revenue from South Korea, slid 2.9 percent. Cnooc Ltd.,
China’s biggest offshore oil explorer, lost 3.4 percent.  China
Construction Bank Corp. , the nation’s second-biggest lender,
dropped 2.5 percent after the China Business News cited the
banking regulator as saying lenders still face “severe” risks.  “Although Hong Kong isn’t directly affected by what
happens between North and South Korea, geopolitical
uncertainties weigh on sentiment in regional markets,” said
 Castor Pang , Hong Kong-based research director at Cinda
International Holdings Ltd.  The  Hang Seng Index  slipped 2.7 percent to close at
22,896.14, its biggest drop since May 25. Declines widened as
South Korea scrambled fighter jets and returned fire after North
Korea lobbed dozens of shells into its waters and an island,
injuring 14 soldiers.  Standard Chartered, the U.K. bank that earns about three-
quarters of its profit in Asia, fell 2.9 percent to HK$219.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of so-called H shares
of Chinese companies lost 2.9 percent to 12,817.32.  China’s government must, when necessary, “temporarily”
intervene in prices, the People’s Daily newspaper said in an
editorial published on its front page today.  Cnooc dropped 3.4 percent to HK$17.10.  PetroChina Co. , the
country’s biggest oil and gas producer, lost 3.3 percent to
HK$9.44.  Crude Oil Falls  Crude oil futures declined 0.3 percent to $81.74 yesterday.
Crude for January delivery fell as much as 84 cents, or 1
percent, to $80.90 a barrel in electronic trading on the New
York Mercantile Exchange. It was at $81.18 at 4:22 p.m. Hong
Kong time.  Jiangxi Copper Co., China’s largest producer of the metal,
fell 3.8 percent to HK$22.85. Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd., the
nation’s biggest maker of the lightweight metal, slid 2.4
percent to HK$7.05.  The London Metal Exchange Index of prices for six
industrial metals including copper and aluminum fell 0.9 percent
yesterday.  Action on Prices  Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s cabinet last week announced it will
sell grain, cooking-oil and sugar reserves, ordered an end to
tolls on trucks carrying produce and threatened price controls
to rein in a 10 percent inflation rate for  food .  The People’s Bank of China has raised its benchmark
interest rates once this year, and asked banks to scale back
lending and lift reserve  ratios .  The central bank will raise the benchmark one-year deposit
and lending rates by year-end, from the current levels of 5.56
percent and 2.5 percent, according to a Bloomberg News survey of
nine economists last week.  “China has sent a clear message to the market with its
recent moves that it’s determined to combat inflation,” said
 Danny Yan , a Hong Kong-based fund manager at Haitong
International Asset Management, which oversees about $400
million. “Interest-rate rises aren’t necessarily a bad thing
because that indicates an underlying strength of the economy,
and the need to absorb liquidity.”  China Banks Slide  The Hang Seng Index gained 7.6 percent this year through
yesterday as corporate earnings and positive economic data eased
concern global growth may stall because of Europe’s debt crisis
and China’s steps to curb property prices. Shares in the gauge
traded at an average 14.4 times  estimated earnings , compared
with about 17.2 times at the start of the year.  Construction Bank declined 2.5 percent to HK$7.05.
Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd., the nation’s biggest
lender by market value, fell 2.3 percent to HK$5.90.  Chinese banks still face “severe” risks because of the
“difficult” global economic recovery and the “arduous” task
of domestic structural adjustments, the China Business News
reported, citing a circular that the China Banking Regulatory
Commission issued to its local branches and banks.  BaWang International Group Holding Ltd. , a shampoo maker,
plunged 6 percent to HK$3.15 after saying sales from July to
October this year fell about 31 percent from a year earlier
because of a report of contamination in its shampoo, and this
may cause full-year earnings to decline substantially.  Hanny Holdings Ltd., which trades securities and develops
property, tumbled 9.2 percent to 39.5 Hong Kong cents after
saying it will report a loss for the six months ended Sept. 30.  Li & Fung Ltd.  declined 2.3 percent to HK$43 after the
biggest supplier to retailers including Wal-Mart Stores Inc.
agreed to buy Oxford Industries Inc.’s apparel division for
$121.7 million.  All 45 members of the Hang Seng Index declined. Futures on
the gauge fell 2.7 percent to 22,951.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hanny Wan  in Hong Kong at 
 hwan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 