-- Ontario to Spend $85 Billion to Boost Use of Nuclear, Wind, Solar Energy
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2010-11-23T22:41:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/ontario-to-spend-85-billion-to-boost-use-of-nuclear-wind-solar-energy.html
The government of Ontario, Canada’s
most populous province, announced plans to spend billions of
dollars more on nuclear reactors, wind and solar projects and to
eliminate coal plants by 2014.  Ontario, which generates more than a third of Canada’s
output, is to use C$87 billion ($85 billion) to build at least
two nuclear plants and refurbish 10 others over the next 20
years, as well as pay for new wind, solar and biomass projects,
the province said today.  “Our  energy plan  is an economic plan with Ontario at the
forefront of clean energy, creating a new industry and new
jobs,” Brad Duguid, Ontario’s minister of energy, said in an e-
mailed statement.  Nuclear energy is to receive the largest chunk of capital
spending at C$33 billion, followed by C$14 billion for wind
power, $9 billion for solar power and $4.6 billion for hydro-
electricity. The plan also marked C$12 billion for conservation,
C$9 billion for transmission lines, C$4 billion for biomass, and
C$1.88 billion for natural gas.  The long-term plan, which has been hinted at in government
statements this year, kept nuclear power at its current rate of
half of the province’s energy mix while maintaining the
government’s pledge to eliminate 6.4 gigawatts of coal power in
four years.  Higher Rates Planned  The province, home to 13.2 million people, plans to boost
household and small-business electricity rates by 3.5 percent a
year over the next 20 years. By then homeowners will pay about
double what they pay now, while demand will rise about 15
percent, the plan said. Industrial rates are to increase by 2.7
percent annually over the same period.  The plan targets industrial consumers to cut their power
use by 20 percent to save 5,840 megawatts by 2020 in
conservation efforts that the plan calls “among the most
aggressive in North America.”  Half of the conservation target is expected from the
commercial sector and the residential sector is to contribute 30
percent.  The government offered a 10 percent rebate on electricity
bills to homeowners and small businesses on Nov. 18. That more
than countered an 8 percent rise in bills in May after changes
to the provincial sales tax.  Under that program, a typical home with a monthly bill of
C$128 will see a yearly reduction of C$153.60 on their
electricity bills, the government said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Colin McClelland  in Toronto at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  