-- Top Korea Bond Funds Boost Company Holdings Betting Growth to Trump Crisis
-- B y   J u n g m i n   H o n g
-- 2010-11-24T03:43:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/top-korean-bond-funds-boost-corporate-holdings-as-sovereign-yield-plunges.html
South Korea’s biggest bond buyers
are switching to corporate notes after the yield on sovereign
debt dropped below inflation, betting economic growth will trump
concerns about aggression from North Korea.  Samsung Asset Management Co., which oversees 97 trillion
won ($83 billion) and the largest debt fund, is increasing
company holdings after the yield on the benchmark 3.75 percent
sovereign bond due June 2013 fell to a record low 3.05 percent
last month, according to Chief Investment Officer  Eugene Kim .
Money managers at  Kyobo Life Insurance Co.  and  KDB Asset
Management Co.  say they’re doing the same since inflation
accelerated to a 20-month high of 4.1 percent.  “Investors, including us, are shifting their attention to
top-rated corporate and state-run company notes because
government bonds won’t guarantee targeted returns,” said  Eugene E.S. Chung , who oversees about 25 trillion won in local-currency
assets as head of investment management at Kyobo Life, South
Korea’s third-largest life insurer by assets. North Korea’s
attack yesterday won’t cause that strategy to change “as the
development is not expected to damage South Korea’s economic
fundamentals significantly,” he said.  South Korea scrambled fighter jets after North Korea fired
artillery shells at an island near their disputed border in the
communist nation’s worst attack in at least eight months. While
some Asian stocks extended a selloff, Moody’s Investors Service
said today the credit rating of one of the region’s fastest-
growing economies won’t be affected, and the Finance Ministry
pledged to supply “ample” liquidity to keep markets stable.  Economic Growth  South Korea’s economy will probably expand 6 percent this
year, Finance Minister Yoon Jeung Hyun said Oct. 28, more than
an earlier projection of 5.8 percent. Exports, which account for
about half the economy, grew for the 11th straight month in
September.  The yield on the government’s benchmark three-year bonds
rose four basis points to 3.4 percent today. The won weakened 1
percent to 1,148.65 per dollar, after earlier touching 1,172.50,
the lowest since Sept. 9.  “Our investment stance remains the same since the current
development is not expected to cause a spike in Treasury yields
or a dramatic surge in credit spreads,” Samsung’s Kim, who is
switching to top-grade company notes from sovereign debt, said
by phone today. The attack won’t hurt the fundamentals of South
Korea’s economy in the long-term, he said.  ‘Geopolitical Risks’  KDB Asset, a unit of Korea’s largest state-run banking
group, will raise the corporate weighting in its holdings to
about 40 percent from 30 percent, head of fixed-income Kim Hyung
Ki said last month.  “We’ll continue to increase corporate bond holdings since
the bond market looks unscathed by the geopolitical risks,”
KDB’s Kim said by phone today.  The cost of insuring South Korean government debt from
default rose 3 basis points to 107.5 basis points as of 9:10
a.m. in Seoul, according to Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  “We’re considering trimming the allocation of bonds with a
maturity of five years and longer, since overseas investors may
sell some of the notes on concern over country risks,”
Samsung’s Kim said.  Three-year corporate bonds rated AA and A yield 4.04
percent and 4.39 percent, according to the  Korea Financial
Investment Association . The premium investors demand to own A
rated three-year company debt instead of government bonds
narrowed 30 basis points to 97 basis points since July 1,
association data show.  Kepco, Lotte  The spread on state-run Korea Electric Power Corp.’s 190
billion won of 4.22 percent bonds due in September 2013 narrowed
to 31 basis points from 55 basis points in the same period,
according to Korea Bond Pricing. Lotte Shopping Co.’s 200
billion won in three-year, AA+ rated bonds narrowed 38 basis
points to 39.  Companies seized on falling benchmark borrowing costs to
sell 18.5 trillion won of local-currency bonds since July 1, the
most in a similar period since at least 1999, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Tensions with nuclear-armed North Korea have risen this
year following the sinking of a South Korean warship in March
that the U.S. and its allies blamed on a torpedo attack.
President  Barack Obama  dispatched his special envoy to
Pyongyang,  Stephen Bosworth , to Asian capitals this week after
reports by a U.S. scientist that North Korea had revealed to him
a “stunning” new uranium-enrichment plant.  Moody’s View  Moody’s rates South Korea’s foreign and local currency
long-term debt A1, the fifth-highest of 10 investment-grade
levels. The outlook on the rating is “stable,” Thomas Byrne,
senior vice president of Moody’s, said in an e-mailed statement.  Hwang Kwang Sook, a credit analyst at Dongbu Securities Co.
in Seoul, recommended the bonds of 17 companies including Kia
Motors Corp.,  Samsung Card Co.  and Hyundai Mobis last month,
citing the possibility of credit rating upgrades and tightening
of their bond spreads.  Kia Motors , rated the lowest investment grade of Baa3 by
Moody’s and one rung higher at BBB by Standard & Poor’s, has 60
billion won of 8.6 percent bonds due in January 2012, according
to Bloomberg data. The spread on the securities narrowed to 58
basis points from 89 this half, according to Korea Bond Pricing.  Bond Tax  South Korea said Nov. 18 it plans to revive a tax on
foreigners’ holdings of sovereign and central bank bonds,
joining emerging-market nations from Thailand to Brazil in
attempting to slow capital inflows that are driving up their
currencies.  Once the tax is re-imposed, which the government has said
may happen by Jan. 1, “foreign investors will likely increase
the allocation of state-run company and bank notes,” said  Louis Shin , a credit analyst at Woori Investment & Securities Co. in
Seoul. They’ll then “move onto higher-rated corporate bonds in
the longer term for higher yields,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jungmin Hong  in Seoul at 
 jhong47@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  