-- Oprah Winfrey Gives Away Volkswagen's 2012 Beetle to 275 Audience Members
-- B y   C h a d   T h o m a s
-- 2010-11-23T09:04:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/oprah-winfrey-gives-away-volkswagen-s-2012-beetle-to-audience.html
American talk show host  Oprah Winfrey  gave every person in her studio audience the yet-to-be-
revealed 2012 Beetle courtesy of  Volkswagen AG .  Winfrey, who herself owns a version of the current Beetle,
showed a silhouette of 2012  Beetle  to audience members yesterday
before saying that all 275 of them would get one for free when
it comes on the market.  “Oprah Winfrey and the  Volkswagen  Beetle are two American
icons, so when the ‘Oprah’ show approached us with this
incredible opportunity to share her Beetle experience with
deserving viewers, we instantly wanted to be a part of it,”
 Jonathan Browning , VW’s U.S. chief, said in a statement.  VW brought out a new version of the Beetle in the 1990s to
capitalize on Americans’ nostalgia for the model, which reached
iconic status in the U.S. and was featured in films, including
in a Walt Disney Co. comedy series “The Love Bug” as the main
character Herbie. The car is produced in Mexico.  Chief Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn  aims to boost
U.S. sales as part of a plan to overtake Toyota Motor Corp. as
the world’s largest carmaker by 2018. Appearing on the show is a
marketing coup for the German carmaker because Winfrey has the
top rated daytime talk show in the U.S. and has garnered
additional attention because her program is in its last year.  Volkswagen  aims to sell 1 million cars and sport-utility
vehicles in the U.S. by 2018, with its Audi luxury division
accounting for 20 percent of that figure. VW sold about 214,000
cars in the U.S. in 2009, excluding Audi. VW next year will
begin selling a mid-sized sedan built exclusively for the U.S.
market and open a new factory in Chattanooga, Tennessee.  Winfrey featured the Beetle on a regular program where she
unveils her “favorite things” and provides the items to her
studio audience. She gave away cars one other time on her show,
when  General Motors Co.  donated Pontiac G6s. Some audience
members afterward had trouble paying the taxes and fees for the
car. This time, VW is covering those costs as well.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chad Thomas  in Berlin at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net 
To contact the reporter 