-- Households Aid Infrastructure By Purchasing Tax-Exempt Debt: India Credit
-- B y   A n u r a g   J o s h i
-- 2010-11-24T06:50:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/households-buy-most-tax-exempt-debt-since-2002-india-credit.html
Individuals in India are buying the
most bonds in eight years, taking advantage of tax breaks and
providing funding to build the roads, railways and power plants
needed to sustain growth in Asia’s third-biggest economy.  Indian Railway Finance Corp. , the finance unit of the
state-owned rail network, opened a sale on Nov. 15 to raise as
much as 30.8 billion rupees ($675 million) of five-, seven- and
10-year notes. This year’s sales to individuals exceed 50
billion rupees, the most since about 56 billion rupees were sold
in the fiscal year ending March 2002, according to  Securities
and Exchange Board of India data .  Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  allowed tax deductions
for bonds linked to infrastructure projects in his  February
budget , seeking the $1 trillion needed for construction in the
five years to 2017. The  yield  on India’s benchmark 10-year rupee
bond has declined 14 basis points in the past month to 8 percent
as yields in China and Brazil rose, reflecting optimism that
India will cut its budget deficit and rein in inflation.  “The government intends that the tax benefit percolate to
as large a number of common people as possible,”  Rajendra Kashyap , managing director of Indian Railway Finance, said in a
telephone interview from New Delhi. “The borrowed money is used
for acquiring rolling stock such as locomotives, wagons and
coaches, which are highly productive infrastructure products.”  Rising Demand  Investors bid for 20 times the amount of bonds offered when
State Bank of India, the nation’s largest lender, sold 10
billion rupees of debt to individuals last month.  Infrastructure
Development Finance Co. , a state-backed lender, and L&T
Infrastructure Finance Co., a unit of India’s biggest
engineering company Larsen & Toubro Ltd., sold retail bonds this
month. The companies are based in Mumbai.  Households in India, with savings equivalent to 11.9
percent of the economy, favor retail bonds offering tax benefits
to help meet financial goals, such as educating their children
or funding marriages. Investors get a 20,000 rupee tax exemption
on buying infrastructure bonds, increasing the effective yield.  “My financial goal was just to save tax,” Prem Raheja, 32,
a Mumbai-based businessman who bought Infrastructure Development
Finance’s five-year bonds, said in an interview yesterday. “The
attraction was tax savings of an additional 20,000 rupees on the
bonds.”  Falling Yields  The yield on India’s 10-year rupee bond was near a three-
week low and has declined from as high as 8.18 percent on Oct.
26 as inflation slowed. The benchmark wholesale-price index in
October rose 8.58 percent from a year earlier after an 8.62
percent increase in September, the Commerce Ministry said in New
Delhi on Nov. 15.  Yields  on India’s benchmark bonds have shrunk to within 520
basis points, or 5.2 percentage points, of U.S. Treasuries from
a decade-high 567 basis points on Oct. 20.  The  Reserve Bank of India  is monitoring the current
liquidity situation in the banking system, Deputy Governor
Shyamala Gopinath said in Mumbai this week. India’s banks have
 borrowed  an average of 1 trillion rupees each day this month
through the central bank’s repurchase auction, compared with a
daily average of 522 billion rupees last month, indicating the
tight cash conditions in the banking system.  New Offering  Rural Electrification Corp., India’s state-controlled
lender to power projects, started marketing a 5 billion rupee
sale of 10-year bonds yesterday, according to two people with
direct knowledge of the matter. The company told investors it
aims to price the notes to yield 8.8 percent after the sale
closes on Nov. 25, the people said, asking not to be identified
as the information in private.  India’s rupee weakened to a two-month low today, reaching
45.66 per dollar. It’s up 2 percent this year.  The cost of protecting the debt of government-owned State
Bank, which some investors perceive as a proxy for the country,
has fallen 77 basis points from this year’s high of 239 reached
in May, according to CMA prices. They were 162 as of yesterday.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Barclays Plc and Nomura Holdings Inc. forecast the Reserve
Bank of India will hold borrowing costs until March as Commerce
Ministry data this month showed  factory output  grew 4.4 percent
from a year earlier in September, the slowest pace in 16 months.  Mumbai Airport  India’s environment ministry this week approved
construction of a 150 billion-rupee second airport in Mumbai,
the nation’s financial capital. Building infrastructure is
helping to spur growth in the $1.3 trillion economy.  Malaysia, the Philippines, Indonesia and Thailand have sold
the equivalent of at least $6 billion worth of local-currency
bonds to individual investors this year as they augment sales
aimed at plugging their budget deficits, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. In Japan, there are $330 billion of
retail bonds outstanding in the market, Bloomberg data show.  “Selling retail bonds is a strategy to diversify to new
investor classes,” Geeta Chugh, a credit analyst at Standard &
Poor’s in Mumbai, said in a telephone interview yesterday. “The
purpose is to tap household savings because infrastructure
requires long-maturity funds.”  Infrastructure bonds typically have longer maturities to
match the length of time such projects take to complete. Banks
have deposits that typically mature in less than two years,
Chugh said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anurag Joshi  in Mumbai 
 ajoshi53@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  