-- Mozart’s ‘Magic Flute’ Gets Skeletal Paris Staging: Review
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2010-11-23T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/mozart-s-magic-flute-gets-skeletal-paris-staging-review.html
Peter Brook  is bowing out with a
whimper, not a bang. “A Magic Flute (After  Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart ),” his new and possibly last production at the  Bouffes
du Nord  in Paris, will appeal only to unconditional fans.  Although Brook, 85, has said that he’ll go on directing
right up to his last breath, he’s on his way out. He recently
handed over management of his theater to a younger team, Olivier
Mantei and Olivier Poubelle, and its public subsidies have been
slashed.  When Brook left London, his birthplace, after three decades
of a brilliant career to settle in Paris, the theater world was
aghast. In 1974, he took over the Bouffes du Nord, the
picturesque ruin of an ancient music hall in a grim neighborhood
behind the Gare du Nord.  It was a perfect place for a man who had said goodbye to
traditional theater and was seeking new ways to stimulate the
imagination of the audience without the usual sets and props.
Brook had laid the foundation for his new philosophy in a 1968
book “The Empty Space.”  The formula proved to be a sensation. Brook’s productions
were cult events, attracting visitors who normally wouldn’t have
dreamed of setting foot in what the locals refer to as Paris’s
Little India.  To be worthy of the guest performances of Brook’s troupe in
New York, the Majestic Theater in Brooklyn, today’s  BAM  Harvey
Theater, was remodeled so that it looked like the dilapidated
Paris original.  Shrinking Carmen  Brook also had directed operas, yet felt frustrated with
the genre’s conventions and vowed never again to get involved.
In 1983, he broke his pledge and staged “La Tragedie de
Carmen,” a condensed 83-minute version of Bizet’s masterpiece
with a reduced orchestra and some tampering with the score.  The result got mixed reviews. While the New York theater
critics welcomed the production, music lovers had misgivings. I
belong to the second category.  “A Magic Flute,” though a couple of minutes longer, is
even more skeletal. The orchestra is reduced to a piano. That
the pianist, Alain Planes, the only known quantity among the
participants, jumped ship on the eve of the premiere was a bad
omen. Franck Krawczyk, the arranger, had to stand in.  You look in vain for the three ladies or the three boys.
Sarastro and the Speaker are performed by the same singer, which
brings the cast down to seven.  The evil Monostatos is white, not black, and the macho
remarks about the unreliability of women (“Women do little and
talk much”) are cut: This is a politically correct show.  Magical Bamboo  The only props are bamboo sticks constantly moved around by
two African actors. One of the two does a nice job of making the
flute mysteriously appear at the beginning and disappear at the
end.  The arias are sung in an exotically flavored German. The
dialogues are spoken in French.  I saw the first of two alternating casts. None of the young
singers is on the verge of a major career. The only one worth
citing is Leila Benhamza’s Queen of the Night: Her coloraturas
are clear, yet the lyrical passages need work.  The acting isn’t any better. The general impression is that
of a school performance at a provincial conservatory.  The audience didn’t seem to mind. Everybody got a big hand.
Rating: *.  “Une Flute Enchantee” runs through Dec. 31. Information:
 http://www.bouffesdunord.com  or +33-1-4607-3450.  ( Jorg von Uthmann  is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Jorg von Uthmann  in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at  mbeech@bloomberg.net . 