-- PAI Agrees to Acquire Hunkemoeller Lingerie Stores From KKR-Owned Maxeda
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l   a n d   J e r o e n   M o l e n a a r
-- 2010-11-23T10:55:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/pai-agrees-to-acquire-hunkemoeller-lingerie-stores-from-kkr-owned-maxeda.html
PAI Partners, the French majority
owner of  Gruppo Coin SpA , Italy’s biggest department store
chain, agreed to buy Maxeda BV’s Hunkemoeller lingerie stores
for an undisclosed sum.  The sale of Hunkemoeller, with about 500 stores in
countries including The Netherlands, Belgium and Germany, is
expected to be completed early next year, Amsterdam-based Maxeda
said today in a statement.  Maxeda, the former Royal Vendex KBB NV, is nearing the end
of a divestment plan, with only the M&S fashion chain to be
sold. Maxeda, acquired six years ago by a  KKR & Co. -led group
for 1.38 billion euros ($1.88 billion), sold luxury-clothing
chain de Bijenkorf last week to Selfridges Group Ltd., owner of
the biggest department store on London’s Oxford Street.  “We have been very impressed by the strong market position
of Hunkemoeller in the Benelux as well as the growth opportunity
in Germany and other European countries,” Michel  Paris , head of
PAI’s retail division, said in the statement. “The Hunkemoeller
business model is differentiated from its competitors and is
winning market share in every market in which it operates.”  Maxeda, which will continue to operate the Praxis do-it-
yourself store brand, agreed in September to sell its V&D
department-store chain and La Place restaurants in the
Netherlands to Sun European Partners LLP for an undisclosed sum.  Private-equity firm PAI, based in Paris, expects to find a
buyer for its stake in Gruppo Coin in the first quarter of 2011,
Financiere Tintoretto SA, the company through which PAI owns the
holding, said Nov. 17.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Maud van Gaal  at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeroen Molenaar  in Amsterdam at 
 jmolenaar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  