-- U.S. Progress in Afghanistan Slowed by Pakistan Havens, Taliban Resilience
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2010-11-24T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/pakistan-havens-taliban-resilience-thwart-u-s-in-afghan-war.html
The U.S.-led military campaign to
reverse Taliban gains in Afghanistan is hindered by Pakistan’s
failure to shut down more havens for militants and the
insurgency’s ability to adapt, according to a Pentagon report.  “Efforts to reduce insurgent capacity, such as safe havens
and logistic support originating in Pakistan and Iran, have not
produced measurable results,” the Defense Department said in a
 report  on the war effort released yesterday and covering the six
months that ended Sept. 30. “Pakistan’s domestic extremist
threat and the 2010 floods reduce the potential for a more
aggressive or effective Pakistani effort in the near term.”  The U.S.-led coalition has made more inroads in Afghanistan
in the seven weeks since the end of the period covered by the
report, State Department and Pentagon officials said. Troops
have intensified operations in the Taliban’s heartland in and
around the city of Kandahar and cleared key areas of militants,
the officials told reporters on condition of anonymity.  Still, militant groups holing up in Pakistan’s ungoverned
northwest cross over the mountainous border for attacks in
Afghanistan, according to the report. Pakistan’s militants also
won converts on their own territory by providing relief in areas
affected by floods earlier this year.  Office in Quetta  Pakistan’s army leaders recently agreed to allow U.S. and
coalition officers in that country and from Afghanistan to set
up an office in Quetta, a city near the border with Afghanistan.
American officials believe the Afghan Taliban leadership is
based in Quetta. The office will be in the Pakistan army’s local
headquarters.  The report’s findings, along with conditions on the ground
since then, will feed an administration assessment of the war
effort due for completion in December. Army General  David Petraeus , the top U.S. and NATO commander in Afghanistan, is
seeking to show progress so he can begin to hand over some
territory to Afghan control next year.  Plans for the coming months include an offensive to expand
security from the capital of Kabul into surrounding provinces,
particularly in eastern Afghanistan. Coalition operations have
pressured militants in that region and disrupted networks of the
Taliban and the Pakistan-based Haqqani network, which has links
to the Taliban.  Adding Troops  President  Barack Obama  a year ago authorized 30,000
additional troops to be brought in during 2010 to step up the
fight, with a timetable of beginning a drawdown by July 2011.
Most of the added forces were in place by October, increasing
the U.S. contingent to about 95,000. They are supplemented by
48,000 military personnel from 47 other nations in the coalition,
led by the  North Atlantic Treaty Organization .  The Taliban was able to regroup and adapt its techniques
even as the U.S. and its partners pumped in additional troops,
according to the report. The coalition was able to hold or gain
ground most in areas where it has stayed the longest, such as
the central part of Helmand Province in southern Afghanistan.  The coalition and Afghan forces “gradually are pushing
insurgents to the edges of secured population areas in a number
of important locations,” officials said in the report. The
Afghan government and the coalition “continue to face a
resilient enemy that exploits governance gaps and continues to
fight to retain long-standing sanctuaries.”  Iranian Support  While Iranian support of the Afghan insurgency hasn’t
increased significantly in the past year, Iran “continues
active attempts to influence events in Afghanistan” with
political and financial backing for the government, as well as
weapons and training for insurgents.  The perception that the U.S. and its partners won’t stick
with the fight is hampering the campaign to win Afghan backing,
the report said.  “The Taliban’s strength lies in the Afghan population’s
perception that coalition forces will soon leave, giving
credence to the belief that a Taliban victory is inevitable,”
according to the report, which is based in part on public
opinion polling in Afghanistan.  Misperceptions that the July 2011 date was intended as a
full drawdown of all forces -- rather than the beginning of a
handover -- fueled fears rooted in the U.S. withdrawal from the
region in 1989, said the defense official briefing reporters
yesterday.  Control by 2014  NATO and its partners in the fight sought to dispel such
fears while still laying out a timeline to end their involvement
in the war. Heads of state who met in Lisbon last weekend agreed
to aim for complete Afghan control by 2014. Coalition officials
say they can’t predict how many of their forces could be
withdrawn by then.  The Pentagon report, compiled with State Department,
foreign aid and agriculture officials overseeing economic and
political rebuilding projects in Afghanistan, cited “uneven”
progress across the country, with “modest gains in security,
governance and development” in the high-priority areas.  “Overall governance and development progress continues to
lag security gains,” according to the report. “The Taliban is
not a popular movement, but it exploits a population frustrated
by weak governance.”  Afghan President  Hamid Karzai ’s progress against government
corruption “remains uneven and incremental,” according to the
report. A September survey showed 81 percent of Afghans polled
believe corruption affects their daily lives.  Bribery Arrest  The report particularly cites Karzai’s demand for the
release of Mohammad Zia Salehi, the head of administration for
the Afghan National Security Council, after he was arrested on
“solid evidence that he had accepted a bribe in exchange for
his official influence.”  A joint task force was due to begin functioning in October
to integrate intelligence with planning and operations to fight
corruption.  Training and development of the Afghan army and police are
among the “most promising areas of progress,” according to the
report. While the report cites concerns of backsliding in the
absence of more trainers and mentors from coalition nations,
countries stepped up at the Lisbon meeting, the U.S. defense
official said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Viola Gienger  in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 