-- Payrolls Grow as Employers Gain Confidence in Recovery
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2010-11-23T15:38:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/payrolls-increase-in-41-u-s-states-in-october-led-by-texas.html
Payrolls increased in 41 U.S. states
in October, led by Texas and New York, indicating the labor
market is stabilizing across the world’s largest economy.  Employers in Texas added 47,900 jobs last month, while
payrolls rose 40,600 in New York, figures from the Labor
Department showed today in Washington. California and Michigan
rounded out the four states with the biggest job gains. The
number of states reporting increases in employment was the
highest since May.  The report is consistent with figures on Nov. 5 that showed
nationwide payrolls rose in October for the first time in five
months, a sign employers are gaining confidence the recovery
will be sustained. Federal Reserve policy makers, with the goal
of boosting growth enough to reduce the jobless rate, said they
will buy an additional $600 billion of Treasuries.  “The labor market is starting to improve slowly,” said
 Henry Mo , an economist at Credit Suisse in New York. “We need
faster economic growth. It’ll take a few years to dig out of the
deep hole of job losses.”  Unemployment rates declined in 19 states and rose in 14.
While Nevada’s jobless rate is the highest in the nation,
unemployment fell to 14.2 percent in October from 14.4 percent
from the prior month. The jobless rate in North Dakota rose to
3.8 percent, the lowest in the U.S., from 3.7 percent.  In California, the largest state, non-farm jobs rose by
38,900, the most since May 2006. Payrolls in New York, the
third-biggest state, increased by the most since April 2005.  The jobless rate was unchanged in these states even as
payrolls grew. California’s unemployment held at 12.4 percent,
Texas’s at 8.1 percent, and New York’s at 8.3 percent.  Four Biggest  Data released earlier this month showed California, Texas,
Florida and New York, the four biggest states, all added jobs in
October for the first time since May as the recovery stoked
demand for labor. Michigan showed payroll gains of 19,000 in
October.  Seven industries showed gains in payrolls, led by a 103,000
increase in education and health services, today’s report
showed. Government agencies added 38,000 workers.  The unemployment rate in New York City, the nation’s most-
populous, dropped to a seasonally adjusted 9.2 percent last
month, the lowest since April 2009, from 9.3 percent in
September, the state  Labor Department  said last week.  Today’s report showed eight states had unemployment of 10
percent or higher.  State and local employment data are derived independently
from the national statistics, which are typically released on
the first Friday of every month. The state figures are subject
to larger sampling errors because they come from smaller
surveys, making the national figures more reliable, according to
the government’s Bureau of Labor Statistics.  Private Hiring  The Labor Department’s Nov. 5 report had showed payrolls
climbed by 151,000 workers in October, and the jobless rate held
at 9.6 percent for a third month. Private hiring expanded the
most since April, hours worked rose and wages grew, it also
said.  New Jersey’s jobless rate fell to 9.2 percent last month,
from 9.4 percent in September. The rate is the state’s lowest
since May 2009,  according  to its labor department data issued
last week.  Unemployment in Pennsylvania, the sixth-most populous U.S.
state, slid 0.2 percentage point to 8.8 percent as the state
added 15,900 jobs, according to the state’s labor department. It
was the third straight month the rate fell, and the first time
it was below 9 percent since February, according to
Pennsylvania’s labor department.  New York City  Even so, staff reductions are expected at state and local
government agencies. New York City, facing a $3.3 billion
deficit in next year’s budget, will cut its workforce by more
than 10,000 over the next year-and-a-half, Mayor Michael
Bloomberg’s budget office said Nov. 18. More than 6,200 workers
will be fired, and the remainder of the cuts will be made
through attrition, his office said.  Retailers taking on extra workers for the November-December
holiday shopping season include Kohl’s Corp. The Menomonee
Falls, Wisconsin-based department store chain will hire about
40,000 people for the period, 21 percent more than last year.
Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart Stores Inc., the world’s
largest retailer, also will ramp up temporary staff.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  