-- Phantoms of Jefferson, Napoleon Lurk at Left Bank Restaurant
-- B y   A .   C r a i g   C o p e t a s
-- 2010-11-23T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/phantoms-of-jefferson-napoleon-lurk-at-left-bank-restaurant.html
Beneath the costly modern splendor
of Paris, far removed from its Michelin-starred restaurants and
$2,000-a-night luxury hotel rooms, there lies a hidden treasure
of history, food and drink.  “It’s not easy to properly cook a snail,” says retired
French actress and singer Virginie Vitry, who has come to Cafe
Le Procope, billed as the oldest eating establishment in Paris,
to celebrate her 83rd birthday. With her grandchildren listening
attentively, Vitry recalls the many chilly postwar evenings she
spent dining at the 324-year-old restaurant with her friends
Louis-Ferdinand Celine and  Albert Camus .  “Jean-Paul and Simone preferred Cafe de Flore,” Vitry
says, referring to  Sartre  and De Beauvoir, France’s most
celebrated existentialist cafe couple. “ Flore  had much better
heating, but not very good food. Procope was chic, full of
gaiety and amusement and better cooks. Of course, France was so
hungry after the war that we ate anything and everything.”  Back in 1686, a Sicilian by the name of Francesco Procopio
dei Coltelli realized there was money to be made in mass
marketing coffee, at the time a rich man’s drink the Turkish
ambassador to France had helped make a salon-society sensation,
served along with shots of liquor called “canons.” It wasn’t
long before  Le Procope’s  three-floor town house emerged as the
incubator for all things French.  Business and Dominoes  Businessmen discussed their deals over dominoes on the
first floor. Students played billiards and talked insurrection
on the second and, up top, Denis Diderot invented the
encyclopedia and wrote a series of pamphlets on the dangers of
consumer society. In 1792, the first “bonnets rouges,” or red
Phrygian caps that symbolized the French Revolution, were
whisked from a performance of Voltaire’s “Brutus” at the
Comedie Francaise and into Le Procope for customers to wear in
defiance of the royalist regime.  According to the faded scribble on a second-floor wall,
Voltaire wrote: “A woman is like a windmill. She stops when she
rusts.” As the 19th-century French theater critic Jules Janin
points out elsewhere, “French small talk at Le Procope has
exhibited its most lively impatience, its most dangerous zeal;
all of its briefs, all its paradoxes, all its scandals, all its
resistance, all its opposition.”  And for 36 euros ($49.34), Vitry says Le Procope still
serves up the best roasted red partridge in Paris. “It’s still
delicious,” Vitry says after a 24.30 euro starter of six nutty
Belon oysters.  Bonaparte’s Hat  Yet you can only wonder if the young corporal  Napoleon Bonaparte , who was forced to leave his hat as collateral when he
ran out to get money to pay his tab, found Le Procope’s wine
list as pathetic as the one today printed on the back of the
menu by the cafe’s new owners, the restaurant chain Groupe
Freres Blanc.  Could the abominable bottles of Chablis and glasses of
Cotes de Bourg be the same as the ones served to  Benjamin Franklin , Maximilien Robespierre and Georges Danton? Did a 19th-
century Le Procope sommelier actually offer what’s now a 5 euro
tumbler of bitter Cotes du Rhone to  Karl Marx  and Friedrich
Engels on the day they first met?  Sommelier Sebastian Burdeno isn’t amused by the question
that suggests his restaurant -- where the entire French National
Assembly in 1790 retired for three days of drinking, eating and
mourning the death of Franklin -- offers the wine of a
“gargote,” a greasy spoon for curious tourists.  “Look here,” Burdeno says, flourishing a crumpled sheet
of plasticized paper. “Follow me.”  Seeking Enlightenment  History records that  Oscar Wilde , George Sand and Moliere
also clamored into the dim labyrinths beneath the Rue de
l’Ancienne Comedie to find enlightenment. Upstairs, the waiters
say “Pepsi, no Coke,” but the crown jewels of French wine are
also here for a reasonably priced taking: Beaune Greves 1er Cru
1976 Vigne de l’Enfant Jesus from Bouchard Pere & Fils at 185
euros; Latricieres-Chambertin 1995 Grand Cru from Domaine
Faiveley at 215 euros; and a 2004 St. Julien from Chateau
Leoville Barton for 185 euros.  Le Procope’s secret stash of 10 grand Bordeaux, Burgundy
and Cotes du Rhone wines is, of course, diminutive by comparison
to what’s in the cellars of Alain Ducasse or at L’Espadon
restaurant in the Ritz Hotel.  Yet dinner at Le Procope isn’t just about dinner. It’s a
place to teach yourself and your children about history, to
taste the same onion soup  Victor Hugo  burned his tongue on while
writing “Les Miserables” and perhaps, after eating a 12.35
euro “pate en croute” named after Cardinal Richelieu, leave
with a better understanding of why the French are so different
from everybody else.  “Le Procope is a beautiful restaurant,” Vitry says over
the sorbet served to  Thomas Jefferson . “It’s about France.”  Le Procope, 13 Rue de l’Ancienne Comedie, 75006 Paris.
Information:  http://www.procope.com  or +33-1-4046-7900.  To contact the writer on the story:
A.  Craig Copetas  in Paris at 
 ccopetas@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 