-- Philippine Growth Probably Held Near Three-Year High on Consumer Spending
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p   a n d   S a r i n a   Y o o
-- 2010-11-24T07:42:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/philippine-growth-probably-held-near-three-year-high-on-consumer-spending.html
Philippine  economic growth  probably
held near a three-year high last quarter as remittances, slowing
inflation and record-low  interest rates  boosted consumer
spending and investment.  Gross domestic product  increased 7.3 percent in the three
months through September from a year earlier, according to the
median forecast of 16 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News
ahead of a report at 10 a.m. tomorrow. The economy expanded 7.9
percent in the second quarter, the fastest pace in three years.  The Philippines, which avoided a recession last year as
more export-dependent neighbors including Thailand and Malaysia
contracted, may also be less affected by faltering recoveries in
the U.S. and Europe now threatening demand for Asian goods.
President  Benigno Aquino , who took office in June, is seeking
investments for more than 700 billion pesos ($16 billion) of
infrastructure projects to boost the economy.  “The Philippines does seem to be in a good position for
2011” relative to its peers, said  Matt Hildebrandt , an
economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Singapore. “The economy is
far less vulnerable to a global economic slowdown or reversal in
risk-taking sentiment.”  The Philippine  benchmark stock index  climbed to a record
and four-year bond yields slid to the lowest level this month.
The peso rose to a two-year high of 42.47 a dollar on Nov. 4.
The central bank has eased rules on foreign-exchange outflows
and capped dollar supply in the market by allowing currency
swaps to mature as it joined regional counterparts in seeking to
slow excessive currency gains.  Record Exports  A stronger peso may crimp the record gains in Philippine
exports that have supported Aquino’s efforts to expand the
economy by as much as 8 percent annually from 2011.  Sales abroad 
increased 46.1 percent in September from a year earlier to an
unprecedented $5.31 billion, the biggest jump on record based on
Bloomberg data going back to January 1981.  Thailand and Malaysia’s economic expansion slowed last
quarter as exports eased, adding to signs of a moderating Asian
rebound. While the region’s growth is still outpacing the rest
of the world, sovereign credit woes in Europe have reemerged
with Ireland becoming the second euro country to seek a rescue
and the U.S. Federal Reserve renewing a plan to buy Treasuries.  Thai gross domestic product rose 6.7 percent in the third
quarter, after climbing 9.2 percent in the previous three months.
Malaysia expanded 5.3 percent, slowing from an 8.9 percent
growth rate in April to June.  Government Forecast  The Philippines relies less on exports to drive growth
compared with its neighbors. Overseas sales account for about 30
percent of the $160 billion Philippine economy. The value of
 Thai shipments  is equivalent to almost 60 percent of GDP, and
Malaysia’s exports of goods and services are about the same size
as its economy.  Philippine growth was probably 6.7 percent to 7.7 percent
last quarter, Economic Planning Deputy Director General
Margarita Songco said yesterday, citing a government forecast.
The National Statistical Coordination Board will release the GDP
data in Manila tomorrow.  Remittances  from the more than 8 million Filipinos living
in countries including the U.S. and Saudi Arabia are supporting
domestic consumption, said  Sherman Chan , a Hong Kong-based
economist at HSBC Holdings Plc. The funds account for about a
10th of the economy and help boost demand for  Ayala Land Inc. 
homes and  Bank of the Philippine Islands  loans.  Solid Consumption  “Consumption and investment growth should remain solid on
the back of still-healthy remittances,” Chan said. “Policy
makers do seem to be heading in the right direction in terms of
building investor confidence and providing an accommodative
business environment.”  Remittances  climbed at the fastest pace in nine months in
September, rising 10.6 percent from a year earlier to $1.6
billion. Aquino is wooing investors to help build roads, schools
and bridges as he seeks to boost incomes in a nation where the
World Bank estimates one out of four people live on less than
$1.25 a day.  Easing inflation has allowed Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas to
refrain from raising borrowing costs for more than a year to
support the economy. Philippine  inflation  slowed to an 11-month
low in October, with consumer prices rising 2.8 percent from a
year earlier. The central bank last week cut its inflation
forecasts for 2010, 2011 and 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Karl Lester M. Yap  in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net ;
 Sarina Yoo  in Seoul at   kyoo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  