-- Polish Central Bank Keeps Benchmark Rate at Record-Low 3.5% for 17th Month
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2010-11-23T13:55:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/polish-keeps-benchmark-rate-at-record-low-3-5-for-17th-month.html
Poland’s central bank left its  main
interest rate  at a record low for a 17th month to protect the
zloty against speculators as core  inflation  remains in check.  The Monetary Policy Council kept its seven-day reference
rate at 3.5 percent, the Warsaw-based Narodowy Bank Polski said
today in a statement. The decision was in line with the
expectations of 21 of 23 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg.  The likelihood of an increase faded in recent days as core
inflation, which excludes food and fuel prices, remained at a
34-month low and council member  Andrzej Bratkowski  said it was
“too late” for a preemptive move. Central bank Governor  Marek Belka  has warned raising rates would attract investment inflows,
boosting the zloty and threatening an export-led recovery.  “Today’s decision shows that a wait-and-see attitude
prevails on the Monetary Policy Council,”  Maja Goettig , chief
economist at Bank BPH SA in Warsaw, wrote in a research note.
“The key argument for unchanged rates is uncertainty about
whether Poland’s recovery can be sustained and the risk that
global economic growth will weaken.”  Rate Differential  The central bank has kept its key rate unchanged since June
2009, after cutting it by a combined 2.5 percentage points over
the previous eight months to help avert a recession amid the
global economic crisis. Poland, the only European Union member
to avoid a contraction last year, will post economic growth of
3.5 percent this year, the second fastest pace in the EU,
according to a Nov. 18 World Bank report.  Poland’s benchmark rate compares with borrowing costs that
are near zero in the U.S. and 1 percent at the European Central
Bank. That differential sparked concern that speculative
investments would cause the zloty to appreciate, especially
after the U.S. Federal Reserve announced plans to buy $600
million of assets to bolster the American economy.  The zloty eased after the decision to trade 0.2 percent
weaker at 3.9619 per euro as of 2:46 p.m. Two-year interest-rate
swaps, which investors use to protect themselves against the
risk of changes in the central bank rate, fell 4 basis points to
4.76 percent.  Investors in the derivatives markets reduced expectations
for interest rate increases, forward contracts showed.  Three-
month forward rate agreements  dropped 3 basis points to 4.15
percent. It traded 30 basis points above the three-month Warsaw
Interbank Offered Rate at 3.85 percent, the lowest spread since
Oct. 28.  Belka Concern  “If strong capital flows” persist, the stronger zloty may
“take the burden off monetary tightening and limit the scope
for interest rate increases,” Belka said Nov. 15 at a
conference in Vienna.  The zloty has gained 4.1 percent against the euro this
year. The Polish currency was little changed before the rate
decision, trading at 3.9441 per euro as of 11:36 a.m. in Warsaw,
compared with 3.9457 late yesterday.  Four of 10 Monetary Policy Council members voted for a rate
increase during the panel’s August meeting, arguing that a
global economic recovery would fuel inflation, according to the
most recent vote breakdown to be released. The panel rejected
another motion for higher rates at its September meeting,
minutes of the session show.  Annual  inflation  rate rose to 2.8 percent last month,
breaching the central bank’s 2.5 percent target for the first
time since March, as Russian drought and Polish floods boosted
food prices.  Bratkowski Shift  Bratkowski had publicly called for a “visible” rate
increase of at least half a percentage point to damp
inflationary expectations as economic growth accelerates. The
former deputy central bank governor’s assessment that it’s too
late for preemptive tightening and there’s no “rush” to begin
a cycle of smaller rate increases helped shift the outlook for
this month’s rate decision.  “The latest comment” by Bratkowski “suggests that the
Council may have to refrain from hiking rates before further
data are released,”  Jaroslaw Janecki , chief economist at
Societe Generale SA in Warsaw, said before the rate decision.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dorota Bartyzel  in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  