-- Police Said to Study Whether Teenage Boy Fell From Boston-Bound Aircraft
-- B y   C h r i s   S t a i t i   a n d   T o m   M o r o n e y
-- 2010-11-23T21:34:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/police-said-to-study-whether-teenage-boy-fell-from-boston-bound-aircraft.html
Police in Massachusetts are looking
into whether a teenage boy found dead on the street in a Boston
suburb may have dropped from a plane’s wheel well, an official
with knowledge of the investigation said.  Severe trauma to the body and the town of Milton’s location
on a flight path to Boston’s  Logan International Airport  make a
fall from an aircraft a distinct possibility, said the official,
who asked not to be identified because the inquiry is
continuing.  A finding that the boy stowed away on an airliner would
make the case at least the second in the U.S. this year. A man’s
body was recovered Feb. 7 from the wheel well of a  Delta Air
Lines Inc . jet after arrival at Tokyo’s Narita airport from New
York.  The teen’s body was discovered Nov. 15 in Milton and
identified as that of Delvonte Tisdale, 16, of Charlotte, North
Carolina, according to a statement from William Keating, the
district attorney in Massachusetts’s Norfolk County. Tisdale was
a sophomore in the Air Force Junior ROTC program at North
Mecklenburg High School, the  Charlotte Observer  reported today.  Authorities are investigating “every possibility regarding
how Delvonte Tisdale came to be found dead,” said David Traub,
a spokesman for Keating.  Traub declined to say whether the scenarios under study
include a possible fall from an aircraft. Tisdale was seen in
North Carolina on Sunday, Nov. 14, and less than 24 hours later
was found dead in Massachusetts, Traub said in an interview.  “The investigation is trying to connect point A -- Sunday
-- with point B -- Monday,” he said.  Routes, Times  Investigators asked Logan airport to compile flight routes
and times over the town of Milton, said  Phil Orlandella , an
airport spokesman. An inbound plane over Milton, a community of
about 26,000 people, probably would have been at an altitude of
about 1,500 feet (457 meters), Orlandella said.  Milton Deputy Police Chief Charles Paris didn’t return a
message seeking a comment. The Federal Aviation Administration
hasn’t been asked to help in the probe at this time, said Jim
Peters, an agency spokesman.  The possible stowaway angle emerged on the eve of the pre-
Thanksgiving holiday rush, with tighter screening taking place
in many of the biggest U.S. airports as the  Transportation
Security Administration  expands the use of body scanners.  Stowaway cases usually end in death, according to aviation-
safety specialists. Passenger jets typically cruise at altitudes
of at least 30,000 feet, higher than the 10,000-foot standard
for the use of supplemental oxygen, and temperatures at that
altitude can plummet to 50 degrees below zero Fahrenheit (minus
45 degrees Celsius) or colder.  Hitching a ride while hidden above a plane’s landing gear
would require evading security checkpoints, because an airport’s
tarmac is off-limits to unauthorized personnel.  Tisdale lived with his father and had run away before, the
Observer reported.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Staiti in Boston at 
 cstaiti@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Moroney in Boston at 
 tmorrone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  