-- PTTEP Buys Stake in Statoil's Alberta Oil Sands Venture for $2.28 Billion
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j   a n d   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 2010-11-23T12:10:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/pttep-buys-stake-in-statoil-s-alberta-oil-sands-venture-for-2-28-billion.html
PTT Exploration & Production Pcl
agreed to buy a 40 percent stake in  Statoil ASA ’s oil sands
project in Canada for $2.28 billion in the biggest acquisition
by a Thai company.  Statoil will retain 60 percent of the Kai Kos Dehseh
project, according to  statements  by the two companies. The
transaction is expected to close in the first quarter of next
year, Stavanger, Norway-based Statoil said. Statoil’s head of
international development and production said the company
initiated the sale process in October.  PTTEP , as Thailand’s biggest  energy explorer  is known, is
“opportunity constrained” within Thailand, Adrian Loh, an
analyst at Daiwa Capital Markets in Singapore, said by telephone
today. “In terms of growth, it has to focus overseas, and the
oil sands is a key area for a lot of Asian energy companies.”  Chinese rivals have already bought Canadian assets this
year, with  PetroChina Co.  acquiring a C$1.9 billion ($1.86
billion) stake in two ventures, and China Petrochemical Corp.
paying $4.65 billion for a stake in Syncrude Canada Ltd.  “We’ve drilled a large number of wells, about 400 wells,
we’ve had the reserves documented and we’ve built up geological
models for the area, we’re about to start production, so we’ve
reached a stage where we can document the values we’ve created
and so we decided the time was right” to sell, Statoil’s Peter
Mellbye said on the phone from Oslo today.  Herbert Smith  Herbert Smith LLP, which advised Bangkok-based PTTEP on the
acquisition, said in an e-mailed statement the oil sand deposits
held an estimated 2.7 billion barrels of bitumen resources.
Mellbye said that while Statoil doesn’t provide its reserve
estimates for the project, “third parties involved” in the
sale process had estimated them at  2.5 billion to 3.7 billion
barrels.  “The transaction values the whole project at $5.7 billion
or 10.8 kroner per share for Statoil,” Oslo-based Pareto
Securities ASA, whose analyst Thomas Aarrestad has a “buy”
rating for Statoil, said in a note today. “This is
significantly more than what Statoil has invested in the
project, which we estimate to around $3.4 billion or 6.4 kroner
per share.”  PTTEP will use cash flow and loans to fund the acquisition,
 Prasert Bunsumpun , chief executive officer of parent  PTT Pcl ,
Thailand’s biggest energy company, told reporters in Bangkok.
Mellbye said Statoil hadn’t decided what to do with the capital
raised.  Thai Explorer  The Thai explorer’s shares dropped as much as 1.9 percent
to 180 baht in Bangkok today. The benchmark  SET Index  fell 1
percent. Statoil gained 2.2 kroner, or 1.8 percent, to 126.7
kroner as of 12:21 p.m. in Oslo. The benchmark  OBX index  fell
0.8 percent.  Statoil in 2007 bought North American Oil Sands Corp. for
about $2 billion to tap an area estimated to hold the largest
oil reserves outside Saudi Arabia. Bitumen, the semi-solid crude
beneath northeastern Alberta’s boreal forest, will be the base
of the largest single source of U.S. oil imports this year,
according to industry consulting group,  IHS CERA .  The Kai Kos Dehseh project has five core areas -- Leismer,
Corner, Thornbury, Hangingstone, and South Leismer -- which will
be developed in stages, according to a PTTEP statement. The
Leismer area will have an initial gross production of 10,000
barrels a day by early 2011, and the five areas could ultimately
produce 300,000 barrels a day, the company said.  ‘More Confidence’  “The partners brought in at both Peregrino and in the oil
sands could push Statoil to move the developments faster,”
Gudmund Halle Isfeldt, an analyst at DnB NOR ASA with a “buy”
recommendation said on the phone today. “It could help them
reach even higher production. It will also help them make
investment decisions with more confidence, now that they’re
sharing the financial burden.”  Oil sand development in Canada has been challenged by high
costs, which prompted Statoil in 2008 to scrap plans to invest
in an upgrader. Mellbye said the company had no immediate plans
to invest in an upgrader. The company expects to sell most of
its production to U.S. refineries in the first instance, he
said.  “The U.S. would be a natural market, but this is an area
under constant development and there are lot of pipeline
projects underway,” Mellbye said. “There’s been speculations
about taking the bitumen westward to ship it to Asia, so this
depends on the development of the infrastructure.”  IEA Forecasts  While costs in Canada have gone down “somewhat,” there
was a risk they may “rapidly rise again” given the
International Energy Agency’s forecasts for growing demand for
oil sands, Mellbye said. The company has yet to make an
investment decision on moving onto the next phase of the Kai Kos
Dehseh project, called Corner, which would start output in 2016.  Global crude output probably peaked in 2006, and increasing
demand will have to be met from forms of oil such as tar sands
that are more difficult to extract, IEA’s Chief Economist Fatih
Birol said earlier this month.  Organizations including the Sierra Club, Greenpeace and
 Pembina Institute  oppose oil-sands mining on grounds that toxic
waste and carbon emissions from oil processing that contribute
to global warming.  The Thai explorer may seek further acquisitions, Daiwa’s
Loh said. “The Chinese have deeper pockets and in that sense
you wouldn’t want to compete with the big boys, but they may
look for slightly smaller opportunities.”  Countries where PTTEP may seek acquisitions include
Australia, Indonesia and Vietnam, Chief Executive Officer  Anon Sirisaengtaksin  has said.  PTTEP, 65 percent owned by PTT, is the operator of the
Montara well in the Timor Sea that leaked oil off northwestern
Australia from Aug. 21 and Nov. 3 last year. The Australian
government is due to release the findings of an investigation
into the spill by the end of the year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net ;
Marianne Stigset in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  