-- Rattner Says Cuomo's Lawsuit in New York Pension Case `Close to Extortion'
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2010-11-23T18:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/rattner-says-cuomo-s-lawsuit-in-new-york-pension-case-close-to-extortion-.html
Steven Rattner , co-founder of
Quadrangle Group LLC, said the settlement sought by New York
Attorney General  Andrew Cuomo  in a pension-fund kickback case is
“close to extortion.”  “I have already settled in exactly the same fashion that
every one of these dozen other firms have settled in,” Rattner
said yesterday in an interview with the  Charlie Rose  television
show. “And so everything else is just, frankly, close to
extortion.”  Rattner agreed last week to pay $6.2 million and accept a
two-year ban from the broker-dealer and investment adviser
industry to settle a probe by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. Cuomo sued Rattner on the same day, seeking $26
million and his lifetime ban from the securities industry in New
York.  “He has basically threatened me all along the way that if
I don’t do what he wants me to do, he will prosecute me to the
ends of the earth,” Rattner, 58, said.  Rattner and New York-based Quadrangle won $150 million in
investments from the New York state pension fund in 2005 and
2006 as part of a pay-to-play scheme, according to an SEC
complaint filed in Manhattan federal court.  “Anyone who reads the extensive facts laid out in our
complaint will understand that Rattner’s claims that he did
nothing wrong are ridiculous and belied by the fact that he is
paying the SEC $6 million,”  Richard Bamberger , a spokesman for
Cuomo, said in a statement last week. Bamberger referred to the
statement when asked for comment today.  Quadrangle said in April that Rattner engaged in
“inappropriate, wrong and unethical” conduct. Andrew Merrill,
a spokesman for Quadrangle, didn’t return a call seeking
comment.  “I could not believe that they would throw me overboard,”
said Rattner, who is no longer part of the firm. “I was stunned
by it. I was shocked beyond belief.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laura Marcinek  in New York 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 