-- Treasuries Remain Higher After Auction of $35 Billion in Five-Year Notes
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2010-11-23T18:07:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/treasuries-remain-higher-after-auction-of-35-billion-in-five-year-notes.html
Treasuries stayed higher as the
government sold $35 billion of five-year debt in the second of
three note auctions this week totaling $99 billion amid
sovereign-debt concern in Europe and conflict between North and
South Korea.  The U.S. securities drew a yield of 1.411 percent, compared
with the average forecast of 1.404 percent in a Bloomberg News
survey of 8 of the Federal Reserve’s 18 primary dealers. The
 bid-to-cover  ratio, which gauges demand by comparing total bids
with the amount of securities offered, was 2.65. The average at
the last 10 auctions was 2.78.  “The big issue is concern over Ireland that may spread to
Portugal and Spain,” said  Ray Remy , head of fixed-income in New
York at Daiwa Securities Group Inc., before the auction.
“Normal investors in euro-land would decide to come into the
U.S.” As a primary dealer, the firm is obligated to participate
in government debt sales.  The yield on the current five-year note slid four basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 1.38 percent at 1:04 p.m.
in New York, according to BGCantor Market Data. The benchmark
10-year note yield dropped four basis points to 2.76 percent.  Indirect bidders, the category of investors that includes
foreign central banks, bought 31.5 percent of the notes,
compared with the 10-sale average of 44.5 percent. Direct
bidders bought 15.6 percent at the auction, compared with an
average of 11.2 percent at the past 10 sales.  October Auction  At the last five-year auction, a $35 billion offering on
Oct. 27, the securities attracted a yield of 1.33 percent,
higher than the yield at the September auction, which was the
lowest on record at 1.26 percent.  A $35 billion two-year sale yesterday drew bids for 3.70
times the available debt, compared with 3.43 in October. The
Treasury will conclude this week’s note auctions tomorrow with
the sale of $29 billion of seven-year debt.  Treasuries rose earlier as North and South Korea exchanged
artillery fire and Germany’s Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said the
16-nation euro is in an “exceptionally serious” situation after
Ireland asked for a financial rescue.  Traders are betting that Treasuries will be supported as
the global economic recovery shows signs of faltering and
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis boosts demand for the safest
assets. Treasuries have returned 7.8 percent this year compared
with 2.8 percent for the 16-nation euro region, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies.  Fed Debt Buying  The Fed said in a Nov. 3 statement that it will add
$600 billion to the economy through June by buying Treasury
securities as it tries to spur growth and inflation. The central
bank bought $1.629 billion of Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities today. Policy makers are scheduled later today to
issue the minutes of their last policy meeting.  “There will be some clarity on what the Fed was thinking
as it relates to the extent of time they want to pursue this
program and whether they were thinking of doing more if the data
continues to be on the weak side and inflation keeps dropping,”
said  Thomas L. di Galoma , head of U.S. rates trading in New York
at Guggenheim Partners LLC , a brokerage for institutional
investors.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year  notes  and those on
TIPS, a gauge of trader expectations for consumer prices over
the life of the securities, has widened to 2.10 percentage
points from this year’s low of 1.47 percentage points in August.  Economic Growth  The U.S. economy grew at a 2.5 percent annual rate in the
third quarter, more than previously calculated, the Commerce
Department reported today.  “Even if robust growth is not in the cards, the U.S.
economy in 2011 looks set to at least muddle through its long-
term secular problems,”  Anthony Crescenzi , a bond strategist at
Newport Beach, California-based Pacific Investment Management
Co., wrote in a note to clients.  The revised increase in gross domestic product compared
with a 2 percent estimate issued last month and a 1.7 percent
rise in the second quarter.  Sales of existing homes fell in October more than forecast
as foreclosure moratoriums and a lack of credit disrupted the
U.S. housing market.  Purchases decreased 2.2 percent to a 4.43 million annual
rate from 4.53 million in September, the National Association of
Realtors said today in Washington. Economists projected sales
would decline to a 4.48 million pace, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  