-- Treasuries Rise as Korea Clash, Irish Debt Crisis Spur Demand for Safety
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2010-11-23T22:10:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/treasury-yields-are-near-one-week-low-before-existing-home-sales-report.html
Treasuries rose as concern Ireland’s
financial crisis will spread and a clash between North and South
Korea encouraged demand for the safety of U.S. debt.  The gain pushed the 10-year note  yield  to the lowest level
in more than a week after North Korea fired artillery shells
near the border with the South. Germany’s Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said the 16-nation euro is in an “exceptionally
serious” situation.  Yields  pared their drops as the $35 billion
auction of five-year notes drew the lowest demand since June.  “We’ve responded to what’s going on in Ireland and with
North and South Korea, so we’re seeing a bit of a reprieve,”
said  Kevin Flanagan , a Purchase, New York-based chief fixed-
income strategist at Morgan Stanley Smith Barney.  The  yield  on the benchmark 10-year note fell three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 2.78 percent at 5:07 p.m.
in New York, according to BGCantor Market Data. The price of the
2.625 percent security maturing in November 2020 rose 8/32, or
$2.50 per $1,000 face amount, to 98 22/32.  The current five-year note yield fell two basis points to
1.4 percent after earlier dropping seven basis points. Thirty-
year bond yields fell two basis points to 4.19 percent.  The five-year note auction drew a yield of 1.411 percent,
compared with the average forecast of 1.404 percent in a
Bloomberg News survey of eight of the Federal Reserve’s 18
primary dealers. The  bid-to-cover  ratio, which gauges demand by
comparing total bids with the amount of securities offered, was
2.65, the lowest since a reading of 2.58 at the June sale.  Indirect Bidders  Indirect bidders, the category of investors that includes
foreign central banks, bought 31.5 percent of the notes,
compared with the 10-sale average of 44.5 percent. Direct
bidders bought 15.6 percent at the auction, compared with an
average of 11.2 percent at the past 10 sales.  The $35 billion two-year note sale yesterday drew bids for
3.70 times the available debt, compared with 3.43 in October.
The Treasury will conclude this week’s $99 billion in note
auctions tomorrow with a $29 billion sale of seven-year debt.  Bonds rose as North Korea lobbed artillery shells at a
South Korean island near the disputed border between the two
countries, killing two soldiers and setting houses ablaze in the
worst attack on its neighbor in at least eight months.  Fed ‘Wavelength’  Traders are betting that Treasuries will be supported as
the global economic recovery shows signs of faltering and
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis boosts demand for the safest
assets. U.S. debt has returned 7.8 percent this year, compared
with 2.8 percent for the 16-nation euro region, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies.  Fed policy makers disagreed about expanding record monetary
stimulus this month, with a majority seeing a boost to growth
and employment and a minority concerned about risks to inflation
and the dollar.  Most officials at the Nov. 2-3 meeting saw additional
securities purchases as keeping interest rates low and boosting
asset prices, the Fed said in minutes of the session released
today in Washington. The Fed also said it’s considering ways to
improve communication with the public, such as starting press
briefings by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke .  “Given the difficult-to-define transmission mechanism from
QE2 to the real sector of the economy, we are still not sure
exactly what wavelength the Fed is on,”  Thomas Simons , a
government debt economist in New York at Jefferies Group Inc., a
primary dealer, wrote in a note to clients.  Break-Even Rate  The Fed said in its policy statement after the November
meeting that it will add $600 billion to the economy through
June by buying Treasury securities as it tries to spur growth
and inflation. The central bank bought $1.629 billion of
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities today.  The Fed will buy Treasuries of varying maturities each day
for the week beginning Nov. 29 and the first four days of the
following week. The Fed has bought $48 billion in Treasuries as
of today, since it embarked Nov. 12 on its latest round of
purchases, according to Bloomberg Data.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year  notes  and those on
TIPS, a gauge of trader expectations for consumer prices over
the life of the securities known as the break-even rate, has
widened to 2.10 percentage points from this year’s low of 1.47
percentage points in August.  The U.S. economy grew at a 2.5 percent annual rate in the
third quarter, more than the 2 percent advance previously
calculated, the Commerce Department reported today.  “Even if robust growth is not in the cards, the U.S.
economy in 2011 looks set to at least muddle through its long-
term secular problems,”  Anthony Crescenzi , a bond strategist at
Newport Beach, California-based Pacific Investment Management
Co., wrote in a note to clients.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
 Daniel Kruger  in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  