-- Regions Financial Cut to Junk by S&P on Concern Losses May Crimp Funding
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2010-11-23T21:30:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/regions-cut-to-junk-by-s-p-on-concern-losses-may-crimp-funding.html
Regions Financial Corp. , the Alabama
bank that replaced its risk managers last week, was downgraded
to junk status by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services on concern
that more loan losses will erode the firm’s capital.  “The company’s financial flexibility has decreased
somewhat in recent weeks, which could hurt its ability to access
the debt and equity markets on favorable terms,”  Robert Hansen ,
an S&P credit analyst, said in a statement today.  S&P cut Regions to BB+/B from BBB-/A-3, with a negative
outlook, which means the rating could be lowered again. Regions
Bank, the holding company’s main subsidiary, was cut to
BBB-/A-3, S&P’s lowest investment-grade level. Last week, the
Birmingham-based lender  removed three managers  who oversaw  risk 
and troubled assets, prompting downgrades by Fitch Ratings and
Moody’s Investors Service.  Regions last reported an annual profit in 2007, and since
the start of last year has written off more than $3 billion in
loans, mostly tied to developers, home builders and mortgage
borrowers in Georgia and Florida. The shares fell 14 cents, or
2.6 percent, to $5.21 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite  trading  after an 11 percent decline last week.  “It looks like S&P swung the high-yield hatchet and did
some damage to Regions’s financial flexibility in the process,”
said  Guy LeBas , chief fixed-income strategist and economist at
Janney Montgomery Scott in Philadelphia. “Once a financial firm
transitions from investment grade to crossover or high-yield,
funding costs increase substantially, which in turn can impair a
firm’s ability to earn income.”  Departures  Shares of Regions, Alabama’s biggest bank, are near their
lowest levels this year after reaching $9.33 in April. Chief
Risk Officer  Bill Wells  resigned and two other executives
retired and left, Regions said last week.  “Regions has a ton of cash at the holding company level
and they are about as flush in liquidity as any bank you could
run up the flagpole,” said  Marty Mosby III , an analyst at
Guggenheim Securities LLC who has a “hold” rating on Regions.
“They have $5 billion in excess capital before they would hit
the minimum ratios.”  “The company is still seeing declines in commercial
property valuations within its geographic footprint,” the S&P
report said.  The bank had no comment on the S&P report, spokeswoman
 Evelyn Mitchell  said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Mildenberg  in Charlotte at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 