-- Renault Aims for Deal With Unions Early in 2011 to Reduce French Workforce
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 2010-11-23T12:26:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/renault-aims-for-deal-with-unions-early-in-2011-to-reduce-french-workforce.html
Renault SA , France’s second-biggest
carmaker, aims to reach an early-retirement deal with unions at
the beginning of 2011 to reduce its French workforce.  The automaker is meeting labor representatives today at its
headquarters in the Paris suburb of Boulogne-Billancourt to
start negotiations, spokeswoman Emmanuelle Lacoin said in a
telephone interview.  Renault ’s proposals are designed to “respond to the under-
utilization” of some plants, she said, declining to say how
many jobs may be cut from its domestic workforce of 55,000. “We
are hoping to reach an agreement by early next year.”  Renault forecasts a drop in 2011 French production,
including a 23 percent decline at a plant in the northern city
of Sandouville, as sales in the main European market fall, the
company said last week. The Sandouville factory produces the
Laguna mid-sized car and Espace people-carrier. Renault’s plan
draws on French labor rules allowing those in tough manual jobs
to take early retirement.  Domestic production has fallen in step with declining sales
of larger cars assembled exclusively in France, which is one of
the few European countries still subsidizing auto sales with
scrappage bonuses introduced last year to help weather the
crisis. France’s bonus, which declined to 500 euros ($677) per
car on July 1, expires Dec. 31.  Renault’s smaller models such as the Clio and Twingo minis
are increasingly manufactured for the western European market in
Turkey, Slovenia and other lower-wage economies.  Renault  has
said it may transfer future replacements for the Laguna and
Espace to its plant in Douai, France, from Sandouville.  The  carmaker  in September repaid one-third of an emergency
3 billion-euro government crisis loan received last year in
return for pledges to avoid job cuts.  The talks with unions will also identify areas, including
electric car and battery production, where Renault needs to
recruit more skilled workers, Lacoin said. Early retirement is
“just one of the measures being considered,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laurence Frost  in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net . 