-- New York Republican Wins U.S. House Seat; Two Races Remain Undecided
-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 2010-11-24T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/republican-buerkle-wins-new-york-u-s-house-seat-after-incumbent-concedes.html
Only two U.S. House seats remain
undecided three weeks after the Nov. 2 midterm elections, now
that Democratic incumbent  Dan Maffei  has conceded to Republican
challenger  Ann Marie Buerkle  in the race to represent New York’s
25th Congressional District.  Buerkle, 59, defeated Maffei, 42, after as many as 11,000
absentee ballots were counted by hand and polling officials
verified returns on electronic voting machines used for the
first time in a statewide election.  “Thanks especially to all the people, concerned citizens,
who took time out of their busy lives to help stop what they see
as a movement in the country away from the ideals of its
founding,” Buerkle said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. She
is an assistant state attorney general and served on the Common
Council in her hometown of Syracuse.  Maffei, elected in 2008 in the district that includes
Syracuse, was trailing Buerkle by 567 votes as of Nov. 21,
according to the  Syracuse Post-Standard . A final tally in the
race hasn’t been certified.  “The electorate may have changed tremendously from 2008 to
2010 in terms of who turned out to vote, but I kept my pledges
to the people who elected me and I will forever be proud of
that,” Maffei said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. He was
elected two years ago with 55 percent of the vote.  No Regrets  Maffei said he didn’t regret his support for such
legislation as the 2009 economic stimulus package, the health-
care overhaul and the toughening of financial industry
regulations.  “My only regret is that there were not more opportunities
to make health care more affordable to people and businesses and
get more resources to the region for needed public projects --
particularly transportation and public schools,” he said.  Also yesterday, three-term Democratic Representative  Jim Costa  of California won re-election as vote-counting neared an
end in his Fresno-area district, according to the Associated
Press. Costa led Republican  Andy Vidak , 52 percent to 48 percent,
AP said.  Nationwide, the net Republican gain of at least 63 House
seats in the Nov. 2 elections means that the party will hold at
least 242 of the 435 seats. Republicans needed a gain of 39
seats to take control of the chamber in the congressional
session that convenes in early January.  Long Island Race  Buerkle’s victory gives the Republicans eight seats in New
York’s 29-seat House delegation, with one race still undecided.
In the 1st Congressional District that covers the eastern end of
Long Island, four-term Democratic Representative  Tim Bishop  and
Republican challenger  Randy Altschuler  remain in a close race in
which the lead has changed periodically as the vote count
continues.  Democrats had controlled the state’s House delegation 27-2
following a special election in an upstate district a year ago.  In the 2006 and 2008 elections, “Democrats picked up a ton
of seats historically and traditionally held by a Republican,”
said  Steve Greenberg , director of the Siena Research Institute
at Siena College in Loudonville, New York.  The other undecided House race in this year’s vote is in
California, where two-term Democratic Representative  Jerry McNerney  is narrowly ahead as  election officials  tabulate
remaining ballots.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter S. Green  in New York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  