-- Reserve Bank of Australia, Innovia to Sell Venture Probed Over Corruption
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2010-11-23T06:03:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/reserve-bank-of-australia-innovia-to-sell-venture-probed-over-corruption.html
The Reserve Bank of Australia and
Innovia Films will sell Securency International Pty, their
jointly owned banknote-material maker whose employees have been
accused of corruption.  Innovia told the RBA it had decided to sell its 50 percent
stake, prompting the bank to conclude that “the best option
would be to pursue a joint sale,” the central bank said in a
 statement  in Sydney today. Macquarie Capital Advisers has been
appointed as the adviser to the two parties, it said.  U.K. prosecutors said last month they had arrested five
people as part of an investigation into allegations Securency
employees corruptly obtained contracts for international polymer
banknotes. Australia’s Age newspaper in May reported that
Securency was willing to supply prostitutes and bribe overseas
central bank officials to win supply contracts.  The Melbourne-based Age cited statements by a former
Securency employee who is a witness in the Australian Federal
Police probe. The day after the story was published, the RBA
said in a statement it “condemns corrupt behavior of any
kind.”  The venture markets a polymer substrate used in banknotes.  Securency  said in a March 30 statement that it would
implement all 12 recommendations from a report the company
commissioned from KPMG International aimed at improving policies
relating to agents. That report followed allegations in the
Australian media in May 2009 that Securency agents may have
bribed foreign government officials, the company said on its
website.  “The board of the Reserve Bank has carefully considered
its ownership options,” the RBA said in today’s statement. “It
has concluded that, in view of Innovia’s decision, the
unsolicited expressions of interest that the Reserve Bank has
also received, and taking account of the board’s long-standing
intention to exit from Securency once the company had
established itself as a viable long-term supplier in the
international market for banknote substrate, the best option
would be to pursue a joint sale with Innovia.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  