-- Tribune Creditors Seek to Recover Bankruptcy Fees Paid Lawyers, Advisers
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2010-11-23T16:28:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/tribune-creditors-seek-to-recover-bankruptcy-fees-paid-lawyers-advisers.html
Tribune Co.  creditors are seeking to
sue the lawyers and financial advisers who helped the newspaper
publisher file its bankruptcy.  The official committee of unsecured creditors filed court
papers today requesting permission to sue at least nine law
firms or financial advisers that were paid more than $18 million
in the 90 days before the media company filed for bankruptcy in
December 2008. Targets include lead bankruptcy law firm Sidley
Austin LLP and financial consultant PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  Under U.S. law, a company can recover money it wrongly paid
to vendors 90 days before a bankruptcy filing. The creditors
committee is asking to challenge those payments instead of
Tribune because the company may run into a conflict if it sues
its own lawyers. U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Kevin Carey  agreed to
consider letting the committee sue on behalf of all creditors at
a hearing as soon as Nov. 29.  “I just hope that things in this case have not degraded to
the point where we are moving to a war against professionals by
professionals,” Carey said at a hearing today in Wilmington,
Delaware. The creditors didn’t give a reason for challenging the
payments.  Tribune can’t exit bankruptcy until Carey approves one of
four competing proposals to resolve lawsuits over the company’s
2007 leveraged buyout. Until those lawsuits are either settled,
or a plan to bring them to trial is created, the company can’t
leave court protection.  Disclosure Statement  The banks, noteholders and hedge funds sponsoring the four
plans are fighting over what should be included in a so-called
disclosure statement that describes the proposals. The statement
is sent to creditors so they can vote on a plan.  Carey said today that if the plan sponsors can’t agree
among themselves about what should be in the disclosure
statement, he may write the document himself.  Lower-ranking creditors claim the Tribune buyout was a so-
called fraudulent transfer that loaded the Chicago-based company
with too much debt and benefited only real-estate billionaire
 Sam Zell , who took the newspaper publisher private, plus the
shareholders and the banks that helped arrange the sale. A
court-appointed bankruptcy examiner found in July that creditors
may be able to recover billions of dollars through litigation.  Carey scheduled a hearing for March to decide which of the
plans to approve. He will take creditor votes into consideration
when he makes that ruling.  The two main differences among the plans are how to resolve
the lawsuits and what percentage of the company should be owned
by the banks and hedge funds owed more than $8 billion related
to the buyout.  Tribune owns newspapers including the Chicago Tribune and
the Los Angeles Times, television stations and stakes in cable
channels.  The case is In re Tribune Co., 08-13141, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Church  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 