-- Stalin-Era Builder of Moscow Subway System to Be Auctioned Off in December
-- B y   E m m a   O ’ B r i e n   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2010-11-23T10:36:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/russia-to-auction-stalin-era-builder-of-moscow-s-subway-system-in-december.html
Russia’s government plans to
sell the 79-year-old company that built Moscow’s subway system
as Mayor  Sergei Sobyanin  seeks to expedite the expansion of the
capital’s transportation network to ease traffic congestion.  OAO Moscow Metrostroy  will be sold at auction on Dec. 23,
the Federal Property Agency said on its  website . Bids will start
at 2.2 billion rubles ($70.5 million) and rise in increments of
20 million rubles. Foreign bidders will be allowed, Vladimir
Ryzhkov, a spokesman for the property agency, said by telephone.  The Moscow subway, inaugurated in 1935 when  Josef Stalin 
ruled the Soviet Union, now counts 182 stations and more than
300 kilometers (185 miles) of track, according to the company’s
website. Sobyanin yesterday ordered the city government to
expand the underground network by 50 kilometers within four
years, Kommersant reported.  The system is the second-busiest in the world after Tokyo’s
subway, according to the New York  Metropolitan Transportation
Authority . Moscow’s subway carried 2.4 billion passengers in
2009 and as many as 9 million riders a day, according to the
operator’s  website .  President  Dmitry Medvedev  in September fired Sobyanin’s
predecessor,  Yury Luzhkov , after 18 years running Europe’s
largest city, citing in part his failure to curb worsening
traffic congestion. Sobyanin was chief of staff for Prime
Minister  Vladimir Putin  before the appointment.  Traffic Jams  Moscow drivers suffer the longest traffic jams of the
world’s 20 major cities, and the average motorist spent 2 1/2
hours stuck in traffic at least once in the last three years,
International Business Machines Corp. said in a study in July.
More than 40 percent of Moscow drivers reported sitting in jams
for more than 3 hours, three times the survey average, IBM said.  The Moscow subway, where trains arrive more than once every
60 seconds during rush hour in the city center, is a focus of
city planning because of the worsening gridlock.  In March, twin suicide bombers killed 40 people in attacks
on downtown Moscow subway stations, including one near the
headquarters of the successor to the Soviet-era KGB. The
bombings, claimed by Chechen militants, were the most deadly in
Moscow since similar subway suicide attacks in 2004.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brad Cook at   Bcook7@bloomberg.net  