-- Sales of U.S. Existing Homes Probably Fell as Moratoriums Held Back Market
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2010-11-23T13:39:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/sales-of-u-s-existing-homes-probably-fell-as-moratoriums-held-back-market.html
Sales of existing homes probably
dropped in October for the first time in three months as
foreclosure moratoriums disrupted the U.S. housing market,
economists said before a report today.  Purchases  fell to a 4.48 million annual rate, down 1.1
percent from September, according to the median of 71  estimates 
in a Bloomberg News survey. Another report may show the U.S.
economy expanded at a revised 2.4 percent annual rate in the
third quarter, up from last month’s estimate of 2 percent.  An overhang of distressed properties and a  jobless rate 
near 10 percent may restrain home sales, while concerns over
faulty foreclosure proceedings threaten to delay the mending
process even more. Minutes from the Federal Reserve’s meeting
this month may help explain why policy makers decided to supply
the world’s largest economy with an additional $600 billion in
monetary stimulus.  “There’s still a large amount of properties on bank
balance sheets,” said  Guy LeBas , chief fixed-income strategist
at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia. “The potential
supply overhang from these distressed properties represents the
biggest risk to home prices over the next two years.”  The National Association of Realtors is scheduled to
release the sales figures at 10 a.m. in Washington. Survey
estimates ranged from 3.85 million to 4.7 million.  At 2 p.m. New York time the Fed will release the minutes of
its Nov. 2-3 policy meeting that led to a second round of
unconventional monetary easing in a bid to lower unemployment
and prevent inflation from slowing even more. The report will
also contain policy makers’ updated economic forecasts.  Growth Revised Up  The economy grew at a 2.5 percent annual rate in the third
quarter, more than previously calculated, as companies increased
shipments abroad and Americans boosted their spending, a report
from the Commerce Department showed today.  The revised increase in gross domestic product compares
with a 2 percent estimate issued last month and a 1.7 percent
rise in the second quarter. Corporate profits grew last quarter
at a slower pace and an increase in employee wages in the prior
three months was almost twice as much as initially reported.  The housing market is one area weighing on U.S. growth.
Foreclosure moratoriums across the country along with government
investigations into faulty paperwork threaten to delay a
recovery as houses slated for repossession take longer to come
to market. Distressed properties accounted for 35 percent of
sales in September, according to NAR data, before most
moratoriums went into effect.  Sales of existing houses are 38 percent lower than the
record 7.25 million pace reached in September 2005.  More Foreclosures  Foreclosures are mounting as unemployed Americans can’t
meet monthly payments while growing numbers of homeowners,
seeing their home prices slide to less than their mortgage
values, also default. Delinquencies on prime fixed-rate
mortgages jumped to a record in the third quarter, the Mortgage
Bankers Association said Nov. 18.  Joblessness is forecast to average 9.3 percent next year,
another reason why a recovery in housing may take years to
evolve, even with mortgage rates near record lows.  Housing starts  declined in October for a second consecutive
month and were 77 percent below the three-decade peak of 2.27
million reached in January 2006.  D.R. Horton Inc. , the second-largest U.S. homebuilder by
revenue, expects 2011 to be “challenging” for the industry as
consumer confidence and employment remain weak, Chief Executive
Officer  Donald Tomnitz  said on a Nov. 12 earnings conference
call. The spring selling season, the strongest for builders, may
fail to bring the traditional boost in demand, he said.  The lack of demand has depressed homebuilding stocks this
year. The Standard & Poor’s  Supercomposite Homebuilding Index ,
which includes D.R. Horton and Lennar Corp., is down 11 percent
since Dec. 31. The broader  S&P 500  is up 7.4 percent.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  