-- Oracle Wins $1.3 Billion Verdict for Closed SAP Unit's Illegal Downloading
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2010-11-24T11:26:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/sap-must-pay-oracle-1-3-billion-over-unit-s-downloads.html
Oracle Corp.  won a $1.3 billion jury
verdict against rival  SAP AG , the world’s largest maker of
business application software, for copyright infringement by a
now-defunct software maintenance unit.  The jury yesterday awarded the damages after an 11-day
trial in federal court in Oakland, California. Oracle sued SAP
in 2007 claiming its U.S.-based unit made hundreds of thousands
of illegal downloads and several thousand copies of Oracle’s
software to avoid paying licensing fees and steal customers.  SAP got a “toxic Christmas present from Oracle,”  Thomas Becker , a Commerzbank AG analyst, said today. “$1.3 billion is
a bold number and the amount is higher than we expected.”  The verdict, which came after one day of deliberations, is
the biggest ever for copyright infringement and the largest U.S.
jury award of 2010, according to Bloomberg data. The award is
about equal to SAP’s forecasted net income for the fourth
quarter, excluding some costs, according to the average estimate
of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  SAP spokesman  Bill Wohl  said the German software maker will
pursue all available options, including post-trial motions and
will appeal if necessary. “This will unfortunately be a
prolonged process and we continue to hope that the matter can be
resolved appropriately without more years of litigation.”  SAP , based in Walldorf, Germany, has reserved $160 million
for the litigation.  Lower Provisions  “The provisions which they made were much lower than the
ruling,”  Theo Kitz , an analyst at Merck Finck in Munich, said
today. “The judge may reduce the award and they can appeal, but
I don’t expect the reduction will be large.”  Shares  of SAP today dropped as much as 1.6 percent to 35.63
euros and were down 1 percent at 35.85 euros as of 12:18 p.m. in
Frankfurt trading. Oracle yesterday gained as much as 1.9
percent to as high as $27.70 in extended U.S. trading after the
verdict.  SAP spokesman  Guenther Gaugler  said via phone today that
the jury award won’t have an effect on its operating business
and forecast. The company on Oct. 27 reiterated its full-year
outlook of non-IFRS software and software-related service
revenue growth of 9 percent to 11 percent at constant currency
rates. It expects 2010 non-IFRS operating margins to be in the
30 percent to 31 percent range.  Oracle  said in its  lawsuit  that the copyrighted software
was used by SAP’s U.S.-based TomorrowNow unit to offer technical
support to customers of companies that were acquired by Oracle,
to lure the customers to buy products from SAP, and to deprive
Oracle of support revenue for future product development.  ‘Liability Shield’  TomorrowNow had a program to automate the downloading of
the software from Oracle’s customer-service websites, which at
one point crashed Oracle’s computer systems, according to the
evidence at trial.  SAP’s executive board knew that TomorrowNow might be
accessing Oracle’s software when it considered buying the unit,
according to evidence at trial. SAP  acquired  TomorrowNow in 2005
and kept it incorporated as a separate entity as a “liability
shield,” Oracle attorneys said.  Jurors mulled a verdict that at first ranged from $519
million to $3 billion, said the jury foreman, who declined to
give his name. The panel decided on an award that represented
the fair market value of the license SAP should have negotiated
with Oracle rather than trying to estimate Oracle’s lost  profits 
from infringement, he said.  ‘Fair Number’  The panel looked at “the scope, the duration and the
timing” of TomorrowNow’s conduct, the foreman said. The $1.3
billion, which was less than the $1.7 billion Oracle’s expert
had recommended, took into account all the elements of damages
to Oracle that had occurred, he said.  “We thought that was a fair number,” the foreman said.  The  executive board ’s involvement in overseeing and
approving the $10 million acquisition of the 30-employee
subsidiary, which occurred just days before Christmas of 2004,
showed how valuable TomorrowNow was to SAP, said one of the
jurors, Joe Bangay.  “If you take something from someone and you use it, you
have to pay,” Bangay, 57, an auto body technician, said.  Geoffrey Howard , an attorney for Redwood City, California-
based Oracle, said before the verdict that the breadth of the
illegal downloading was “unprecedented” in the software
industry.  ‘Guilt and Liability’  “For more than three years, SAP stole thousands of copies
of Oracle software and then resold that software and related
services to Oracle’s own customers,” Oracle President  Safra Catz  said in an e-mailed statement. “Right before the trial
began, SAP admitted its guilt and liability; then the trial made
it clear that SAP’s most senior executives were aware of the
illegal activity from the very beginning.”  Oracle has used more than 65 acquisitions worth more than
$42 billion since the beginning of 2005 to become the second-
largest supplier of business applications after SAP.  Just before the trial began, Oracle Chief Executive Officer
 Larry Ellison  said his company would show evidence that former
SAP CEO  Leo Apotheker , now CEO of  Hewlett-Packard Co. , another
Oracle rival, had overseen the TomorrowNow’s downloads. Oracle
elected not to show Apotheker’s videotaped testimony, and said
it was unable to subpoena him to appear as a witness.  Mylene Mangalindan , an HP spokeswoman, said Nov. 19 that
Oracle had ‘been trying to harass’’ Apotheker, who had a limited
role in TomorrowNow. Oracle competes with HP in the market for
computer servers.  ‘Grossly Exaggerated’  SAP  didn’t contest that it was liable for the infringement
by TomorrowNow, which it closed in 2008. SAP lawyers told jurors
that Oracle’s damage estimate was grossly exaggerated and SAP
owed about $40 million for infringement.  TomorrowNow garnered just 358 customers out of about 3,000
potential customers, and only 86 of them bought products from
SAP and a small portion of those customers converted to SAP
because of the infringement, company lawyers told the jury.  Damages should be based on the amount of profits Oracle
lost and SAP gained from the customers who left Oracle due to
the infringement,  Bob Mittelstaedt , SAP’s attorney, told the
jury. He declined to comment after the verdict.  The verdict is the 23rd-biggest jury award of all time,
according to Bloomberg data. The largest jury award in a
copyright-infringement case previously was $136 million verdict
by a Los Angeles jury in 2002 in a Recording Industry
Association of America lawsuit against Media Group Inc. for
copying and distributing 1,500 songs by artists including  Elvis Presley , Madonna and  James Brown , according to Bloomberg data.  The U.S. Justice Department and the Federal Bureau of
Investigation are investigating “some facts and circumstances”
involved in Oracle’s lawsuit, according to an Aug. 5 court
filing by SAP. Kyle Waldinger, an assistant U.S. attorney in San
Francisco who attended the trial, declined to comment Nov. 1.  The case is Oracle Corp. v. SAP AG, 07-01658, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Gullo  in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 