-- SEC Allows Asset-Backed Issuers to Omit Ratings Required by Dodd-Frank Act
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2010-11-23T22:29:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/sec-allows-asset-backed-issuers-to-omit-ratings-required-by-dodd-frank-act.html
The Securities and Exchange
Commission indefinitely extended the timeframe for asset-backed
bond issuers to omit credit ratings from marketing materials,
effectively exempting companies from part of the U.S. Dodd-Frank
financial reform act.  Pending further notice, the SEC won’t recommend enforcement
action if an asset-backed issuer doesn’t include the ratings
disclosure required by law, according to a letter today from
Katherine Hsu, senior special counsel for the SEC.  Issuers received a six-month reprieve from a portion of the
law in July after ratings firms balked at allowing companies to
include rankings in public documents. The reluctance stemmed
from concern that firms such as  Moody’s Investors Service ,
Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings may be vulnerable to
lawsuits when underwriters include their assessments.  “Without this extension, the entire public securitization
market would have closed in late January,”  Tom Deutsch ,
executive director of the American Securitization Forum, said
today in an e-mailed statement.  Borrowers were unable to obtain permission from the ratings
firms to include their rankings in registration statements,
 Meredith Cross , director of the SEC’s division of corporate
finance, said in a July 22 statement when the SEC granted the
reprieve. In a statement today, Cross said the agency is working
on “significant changes” to the regulation of asset-backed
securities and the rating agencies. The extension will give the
SEC more time to come up with possible solutions, she said.  Working on Change  “The staff believed that it was better for investor
protection if these offerings are able to be done in the
registered markets, and the letter should facilitate that,”
Cross said.  “We believe the SEC’s decision is consistent with
Congress’s intent to reduce reliance on ratings in regulation,
which we have long supported,”  Michael Adler , a spokesman for
Moody’s Corp. in New York, said today in a telephone interview.  Edward Sweeney , a spokesman for S&P, declined to comment.  The Dodd-Frank law, signed by President Barack Obama in
July, subjects ratings companies to so-called expert liability,
meaning they would face the same legal risks as accountants and
other parties that participate in bond sales.  Ford’s Role  Ford Motor Credit Co. asked the SEC in July to allow the
company to exclude ratings from an asset-backed prospectus
because ratings firms refused to consent, according to a copy of
the correspondence posted on the SEC website.  Rating companies are still unwilling to consent, the
regulator said in its letter today.  “Given the current state of uncertainty in the asset-
backed securities market and the benefits to investor protection
resulting from Securities Act registration, the Division is
extending the relief,” the SEC said.  Ford Motor’s finance arm sold $1.39 billion of bonds backed
by auto loans on July 27, five days after the SEC granted the
issuers’ exemption from including ratings, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “We are pleased,”  Margaret Mellott , a spokeswoman for
Ford Motor Credit, said in an e-mailed statement. “The SEC
recognizes the importance of the public ABS markets, and we are
glad the staff is ensuring the public ABS markets remain
available.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Mulholland  in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  