-- Shariah Scholar on More Than 50 Boards Opposes Limit Plan: Islamic Finance
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i   a n d   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2010-11-23T10:42:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/shariah-scholar-on-more-than-50-boards-opposes-limit-plan-islamic-finance.html
Restricting the number of boards
religious scholars are involved in would curb growth in the $1
trillion Islamic finance market, says a Bahraini scholar who
advises  Citigroup Inc.  and  HSBC Holdings Plc .  The  Accounting & Auditing Organization for Islamic
Financial Institutions , a Manama-based agency, said in August
it’s considering guidelines on scholars owning shares in the
institutions they serve and the number of advisory boards they
can join, to reduce the risk of conflicts of interest. The top
20 scholars serve on 621 boards globally, said Zawya and
Funds@Work AG, a Dubai-based research company.  “Capping the number of boards will be devastating to the
industry’s growth,”  Sheikh Nizam Yaquby , who was born in 1959,
said in an interview in Beirut on Nov. 4. “Sometimes people ask
me, are you Superman? How can you sit on so many boards? I tell
them it’s hard work.”  Yaquby and Syria’s  Abdul Sattar Abu Ghuddah  ranked first
among the top 20 experts, each serving on 85 boards of Islamic
financial institutions, according to Zawya’s report. Yaquby is
listed as serving on more than 50 boards, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The Islamic finance industry, with assets the Kuala Lumpur-
based  Islamic Financial Services Board  will almost triple to
$2.8 trillion by 2015, is struggling to develop global standards
and a centralized regulator for scholars. Banks and companies
can’t find enough experts to meet demand for new Shariah-
compliant products, creating a “bottleneck,” said  Khalid Howladar , Dubai-based senior credit officer at Moody’s Investors
Service, in an e-mailed response yesterday.  Fragmented Industry  “One scholar advising so many companies doesn’t help make
an Islamic product universal,”  Kaleem Iqbal , a senior executive
vice president at the Pakistani unit of Bahrain-based  Albaraka
Banking Group  said in a telephone interview yesterday from
Islamabad. “Unless we adopt a more standardized model, the
industry will remain fragmented.”  Islamic institutions typically have their own panels of
scholars who pass rulings, or fatwas, to determine that products
comply with Shariah principles. Shariah scholars need to be
experts on the Koran, commercial law and finance. Yaquby has a
degree in economics and comparative religion from  McGill
University  in Montreal.  Mohamad Nedal Alchaar , secretary-general of  AAOIFI,  said in
August that a shortage of experts means they tend to sit on
several advisory boards simultaneously. The Bahrain-based agency
also plans to address concerns that these scholars’ private
companies receive preferential treatment from banks they advise.  ‘Conflict of Interest’  “There’s a potential case for conflict of interest, and a
case of information leakage or perhaps competition impact,”
Alchaar said. “We wanted to address the concerns in an unbiased
manner.”  AAOIFI, which has more than 200 members, sets accounting
and auditing standards that are used in Bahrain, the Dubai
International Financial Centre, Jordan, Lebanon and Qatar,
according to its website. The agency said its guidelines have
also been used to help frame policy in Indonesia, Malaysia,
Pakistan, Saudi Arabia and South Africa.  “What’s key is to create a robust framework in which the
industry can thrive and grow,” said Yavar Moini, senior adviser
of global capital markets at Morgan Stanley, in an interview in
Dubai yesterday. “Clearly scholars’ expertise and
representation on Shariah boards are an integral part of such a
framework. Placing limitations in this regard will hinder the
industry’s growth potential.”  Declining Bond Sales  Global sales of Islamic bonds fell 29 percent to $13.7
billion this year from the same period in 2009, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Islamic law restricts investors to
transactions based on the exchange of assets rather than money
alone because interest payments are banned.  Sukuk returned 11.7 percent this year, according to the
 HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index , compared with a 14.5
percent gain in developing markets, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI
Global Diversified Index shows.  Pakistan’s central bank requires Islamic banks to appoint
one scholar as a “Shariah adviser,” who is barred from serving
at other financial institutions in the country, Karachi-based
 Saleem Ullah , director of the Islamic banking department at the
State Bank of Pakistan, said in an e-mailed response yesterday.  “The restriction is aimed at addressing the issue of
conflict of interest and giving comfort to the banks regarding
confidentiality of their business policies and product
structures,” he said. The scholar can advise Islamic banks
outside the country.  No Restrictions  Some Islamic banks also have Shariah boards and committees
which have between three and seven scholars, Saleem Ullah said.
There are no restrictions on how many boards scholars can serve
on, he said.  “If a country wants to put a limitation, it is up to
them,” said Yaquby. “Countries have to question if there are
enough scholars to put such limitations.”  Chicago-based  Failaka Advisors LLC , an advisory company
which monitors and publishes data on Islamic funds, lists 253
practicing scholars worldwide in its 2008 report. There are now
an estimated 600 scholars, said Yaquby. Among the top 10 are
 Mohammad Daud Bakar  of Malaysia and Saudi Arabia’s  Mohammed Elgari , according to the report by Zawya and Funds@Work.  The  difference  between the average yield for emerging
market sukuk and the London interbank offered rate was little
changed at 341 basis points yesterday, having narrowed 32 basis
points since Sept. 30, according to the HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US
Dollar Sukuk Index. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The yield on Malaysia’s 3.928 percent Islamic note due in
June 2015 rose two basis points to 2.71 percent today, according
to prices provided by Royal Bank of Scotland Group. The extra
yield investors demand to hold Dubai’s government sukuk rather
than Malaysia’s narrowed 9 basis points to 384.8, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Islamic financial institutions “want scholars who
understand finance and banking, and can speak languages,”
Yaquby said. “This is not a popularity contest. This is a
multi-disciplinary specialization, which is rare to find.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dana El Baltaji  in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net 
 Haris Anwar  in Dubai at   hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at   cmaedler@bloomberg.net  