-- Shelling Adds to 60 Years of Tension Between North, South Korea: Timeline
-- B y   A a r o n   S h e l d r i c k   a n d   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2010-11-23T10:08:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/shelling-adds-to-60-years-of-tension-between-north-south-korea-timeline.html
North and South Korea traded
artillery fire leaving casualties today. Two South Korean
marines are dead after North Korea’s military fired shells at
Yeonpyeong island off South Korea’s northwest coast.  Tensions on the Korean peninsula have escalated since the
sinking of a South Korean ship in March this year that was
blamed on the North.  The following is a timeline of relations between North
Korea and South Korea.  Nov. 22, 2010: North Korea stunned U.S. scientists on a
tour of its latest nuclear plant this month, showcasing
technological advances that highlight the failure of sanctions
to force  Kim Jong Il ’s regime back to disarmament talks.  Nov. 19, 2010: North Korea is building an experimental
reactor, according to satellite photos and visits by two U.S.
experts to a nuclear site at Yongbyon, raising concern that the
facility could be used for military purposes, analysts said.  May 25, 2010: North Korea says it will sever all ties with
South Korea and expel the South’s workers from a joint
industrial zone.  May 24, 2010: South Korea announces plans for joint
military exercises with the U.S. in the area where the ship sank.  May 20, 2010: South Korea releases a report tying North
Korea to the sinking of the Cheonan, the deadliest attack blamed
on the communist country in more than two decades.  March 26, 2010: An explosion sinks South Korea’s 1,200-ton
Cheonan patrol boat near the maritime border with North Korea.  Nov. 25 2009: North Korea said South Korea is responsible
for the shooting death of a tourist in a mountain resort in the
communist nation last year.  Nov. 10, 2009: South and North Korean warships exchanged
fire off the peninsula’s western coast after the North’s vessel
crossed a disputed sea border and ignored several warning shots,
the Joint Chiefs of Staff said in Seoul.  May 2009: North Korea conducts its first nuclear test in
three years, leading the UN Security Council to adopt a U.S.-
backed resolution seeking to curb loans and money transfers to
North Korea and increase inspection of cargo that may contain
material for nuclear weapons or ballistic missiles.  March 2009: North Korea and the United Nations Command hold
their first talks in six years.  October 2008: North Korea is removed from the U.S.’s  list
of state sponsors of terrorism .  July 2008: A South Korean woman was shot dead by North
Korean troops at the Mount Geumgang resort in the communist
state, the first such incident involving a tourist, South
Korea’s Unification Ministry said.  February 2008:  Lee Myung-Bak  takes office as South Korea’s
president.  October 2007: A second inter-Korean summit is held in
Pyongyang.  October 2006: After boycotting the six-party talks for most
of 2005 and 2006, North Korea tests a nuclear bomb. The country
later agrees to return to negotiations on the condition the U.S.
agrees to discuss lifting financial sanctions.  August 2003: North Korea agrees to six-party talks aimed at
ending its pursuit of nuclear weapons.  April 2003: North Korea meets with China and the U.S. to
discuss the country’s nuclear program.  February 2003:  Roh Moo-Hyun  is inaugurated as South Korean
president and continues  Kim Dae Jung ’s policy of engaging its
neighbor to the north.  January 2003: The U.S. and its allies suspend fuel-oil
shipments to North Korea after the communist nation says it has
a nuclear weapons program and withdraws from the Nuclear Non-
Proliferation Treaty.  December 2002: South Korean President Kim Dae Jung
expressed “deep concern” as North Korea removed United Nations
seals and monitoring gear and readied a plant capable of
producing weapons-grade plutonium, actions the world’s chief
atomic-arms inspector likened to “nuclear brinkmanship.”  June 2002: Four South Korean sailors died, 20 were injured
and one ship sunk in a navy battle with North Korea off the
western coast, South Korea’s defense ministry said.  January 2002: U.S. President  George W. Bush  calls Iran,
Iraq and North Korea an “axis of evil” during his first State
of the Union speech, saying the countries are threatening world
peace by seeking to develop weapons of mass destruction.  June 2000: Kim Dae Jung meets with Kim Jong Il in Pyongyang
during the first inter-Korean summit.  June 1999: A nine-day naval battle breaks out between North
and South Korea, ending with the sinking of a North Korean
torpedo boat that went down with its crew on board. Other boats
were damaged. It was most serious naval clash since the end of
the Korean War, according to the U.S. State Department.  December 1998: South Korea’s navy sinks a North Korean
semi-submersible vessel after a firefight. The body of a North
Korean diver was found near the site.  August 1998: North Korea test fires a three-stage, long
range missile that flies over Japan before landing in the
Pacific Ocean. North Korea claimed it was a successful attempt
to put a satellite in orbit.  February 1998:  Kim Dae Jung  takes office as South Korea’s
president and outlines his “Sunshine Policy,” attempting to
defuse tensions on the peninsula.  October 1994: The U.S. and North Korea sign an accord known
as the Agreed Framework, under which the communist nation says
it will freeze the operation and construction of nuclear
reactors suspected of being part of a covert nuclear arms
program in exchange for fuel-oil shipments and two reactors,
developed with help from South Korea, to produce electricity.  July 1994: North Korean President  Kim Il Sung  dies. He is
succeeded by his son,  Kim Jong Il .  March 1993: Two months after refusing IAEA inspectors
access to two suspected nuclear waste sites, North Korea
announces its intention to withdraw from the Nuclear Non-
Proliferation Treaty.  February 1993:  Kim Young Sam  becomes South Korea’s first
civilian president following 32 years of military rule.  January 1992: North Korea signs a nuclear-safeguards
agreement with the International Atomic Energy Agency, allowing
inspections to begin in June.  September 1991: North and South Korea join the United
Nations.  July 1988: South Korean President Roh Tae-Woo calls for new
efforts to promote relations between the two nations.  November 1987: North Korean agents are implicated in the
bombing of a South Korean airliner that killed all 155 people on
board. The incident puts the communist nation on the U.S.’s list
of state sponsors of terrorism.  January 1986: North Korea unilaterally suspends talks with
South Korea on reuniting separated families as well as on
economic and trade issues.  December 1985: North Korea accedes to the  Nuclear Non-
Proliferation Treaty.   September 1984: South Korea accepts North Korea’s offer to
provide relief goods to flood victims.  October 1983: More than 20 people were killed, including 17
senior South Korean officials, when a bomb went off at the
Martyrs Mausoleum in Rangoon, now called Yangon, in Myanmar,
while President Chun Doo Hwan was visiting. The bombing was
blamed on North Korean agents.  August 1971: North and South Korea hold talks through their
Red Cross societies, aimed at reuniting families separated after
the division of the two countries.  July 1953: Military commanders from the North Korean
People’s Army, Chinese volunteer forces and the  United Nations
Command  sign an armistice agreement at Panmunjom. The two
countries remain technically at war since the conflict ends
without a peace agreement.  June 1950: North Korea invades South Korea, marking the
start of the  Korean War . The United Nations Command, a 16-member
coalition led by the U.S., sends troops to battle the North
Koreans. Almost 933,000 troops are stationed in the peninsula at
the height of the conflict.  September 1948: The Democratic People’s Republic of Korea
is established in the northern half with backing from the Soviet
Union.  August 1948: The Republic of Korea is established in the
southern half of the peninsula.  August 1945: Japan surrenders, marking the end of World War
II. Korea is divided into two areas, with the U.S. administering
the southern half of the peninsula and the Soviet Union taking
over the northern half in an arrangement intended to be
temporary.  August 1910: Japan  annexes  Korea, beginning a 35-year
occupation.  Sources: Bloomberg News; U.S. State Department website; CIA
Factbook.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Sheldrick  in Tokyo at 
 asheldrick@bloomberg.net .
 Chris Dolmetsch  in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tackett at 
 mtackett@bloomberg.net . 