-- Silicon Valley Design Firm IDEO Aims to Rethink Books, Cars
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2010-11-23T18:15:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/silicon-valley-design-firm-ideo-s-employees-aim-to-rethink-books-cars.html
Employees at the Silicon Valley
design firm  IDEO LLC  spotted weaknesses in the current crop of
electronic-book readers. So they did what came naturally to them
and designed their own.  The company created a proposal for e-readers called “The
Future of the Book,” showing how the devices could tap wireless
Internet access, location services and social networks to help
readers interact and get more involved in novels. In September,
the ideas were presented to publishers in New York, including
 McGraw-Hill Cos.  and Random House.  “This is the way designers are -- interested across lots
of things in their personal life,” Diego Rodriguez, a partner
at IDEO, said in an interview from its Palo Alto, California,
headquarters. “We tend to see trends, societal trends, maybe
before mainstream society feels them.”  While IDEO’s vision for e-books may take time to show up in
stores, the firm laid the groundwork for many of the products
consumers will be considering this holiday season -- as well as
the way they pay for them. Its designers helped create  Apple
Inc.’s  first mouse and  TiVo Inc.’s  remote control, and they
devised  Bank of America Corp. ’s  Keep the Change  program, which
rounds up purchases to the nearest dollar and deposits the
difference in customers’ savings accounts.  Switch to Strategy  Once focused on product design, the firm has spent the past
decade branching out into everything from fighting childhood
obesity to changing the way drivers interact with their cars.
Its projects now involve brand management, business strategy and
experience building, and revenue has increased 65 percent to
$117 million by year-end from $71 million in 2000. The firm’s
545 employees are spread across offices in Boston, Chicago,
London, New York, Munich, San Francisco and Shanghai.  “That’s the strength of IDEO -- they can work on
anything,” said George McCain, president-elect of  Industrial
Designers Society of America , an association devoted to
industrial design. IDEO, formed in 1991 when three separate
design firms merged, has won more awards from the organization
than any other company.  “Before them, everyone was doing just design of an object,
and trying to make it look good,” he said. “They went below
the surface, they dived down deep and looked into: what are the
real needs of the user that’s going to use this product.”  Audrey’s Failure  Not every project works out. Take Audrey, an Internet
appliance that IDEO designed for 3Com Corp. in 1999. The device
was meant to be an information center for families that
displayed calendars, weather, sports, stocks and traffic --
something handled today by mobile applications on smartphones.  Other ideas, such as “The Future of the Book,” are never
meant to become real products. The company says it came up with
that concept to start a conversation with publishers and content
providers, though people have contacted IDEO about ordering the
device shown in the demonstration video.  IDEO has worked with companies in a wide range of
industries, including  ConAgra Foods Inc. ,  Eli Lilly & Co. ,  Ford
Motor Co. ,  Microsoft Corp.  and  Target Corp.   Ford tapped IDEO to devise new ways for drivers to interact
with their vehicles. Using a dashboard ripped out of a car, a
PlayStation 2 console and a projector showing racing game “Gran
Turismo 3,” IDEO studied how people listened to music, found
directions and answered calls.  Ford Interface  Ford then used that information to create  MyFord Touch ,
which replaces many of the standard buttons, knobs and gauges in
the vehicle with LCD screens and five-way buttons. Drivers can
personalize data screens, ambient lighting color, adjust
temperature settings, radio channels, find music on MP3 players
and access turn-by-turn directions. MyFord Touch is now debuting
on 2011 model-year cars.  “They’re known for having this great innovative design
process, for really getting customer-focused design,” said
Jennifer Brace, a user-interface design engineer at  Ford  in
Dearborn, Michigan.  Ford is increasingly relying on such technological
developments to drive sales and profits. The company’s voice-
activated Sync entertainment system, first released three years
ago, was cited as critical to a buyer’s purchase of a Ford car
32 percent of the time.  What IDEO brought to the partnership was the ability to
test unfinished concepts with a few people and make adjustments
immediately, Brace said.  “That’s something we were lacking at Ford -- these quick
prototypes. Everything had to be working for us before we showed
people and got feedback,” Brace said. “We wanted to learn
those lessons and bring them back to the company and use them
going forward.”  Rounding Up  Bank of America turned to IDEO when it wanted to attract
more baby-boomer moms as customers. After observing consumers in
Atlanta, Baltimore and San Francisco, the firm concluded that
many people typically round up their financial transactions.
Customers also complained about not being able to put enough
money aside.  The result was the  Keep the Change  program. Since debuting
in 2005, more than 12 million customers have enrolled, helping
them save more than $3 billion, said  Don Vecchiarello , a
spokesman for the Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank.  IDEO also has begun designing its own businesses.  ShopWell
Solutions Inc. , which the company spun off earlier this year,
stemmed from an effort to help people eat healthier food.
ShopWell’s site lets users enter the things they want to avoid -
- saturated fats, added sugar -- along with what they need, such
as certain vitamins and whole grains. It then suggests products
available at supermarkets that fit the criteria.  Needle-Free Vaccines  IDEO also has worked on a campaign to prevent unplanned
pregnancies, the development of  needle-free  vaccinations and a
project for the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
to  encourage  preteens to eat healthy foods.  One advantage of working in so many industries: Employees
notice similar issues or questions from a variety of clients,
said Duane Bray, a  partner  at IDEO. The firm is now tracking a
 pattern  called “care and repair” -- the preference for items
that are more durable and can be fixed when broken, instead of
cheaper things that tend to get discarded. That’s helping
clients decide how to design and market new products.  The company doesn’t rely on a few superstar designers to
come up with the next big thing. Instead, IDEO hires people from
diverse backgrounds, such as anthropologists, behavioral
economists, food scientists and entrepreneurs, and makes them
work in teams to solve clients’ problems.  “Because we work across many industries for many clients,
we look for patterns that bubble up,” he said. “They bubble up
in many ways.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ryan Flinn  in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  