-- Simon Rattle Gets on His Knees, Has Pillow Fights on Asia Tour
-- B y   S h i r l e y   A p t h o r p
-- 2010-11-23T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/simon-rattle-gets-on-his-knees-has-pillow-fights-on-asia-tour.html
I’m on my knees in front of  Simon Rattle , a position made somewhat less bizarre by the fact that
the chief conductor of the Berlin Philharmonic also is kneeling.  This is the most comfortable way to position ourselves for
a face-to-face conversation in the back rows of a 747. The
Deutsche Lufthansa AG jumbo jet has become an oversized private
carrier for the 17 days of the philharmonic’s longest-ever tour,
a sponsorship agreement with the German airline that also
includes the orchestra’s personal Lufthansa crew.  The tour, which kicked off in Abu Dhabi with a Nov. 9
concert in the  Emirates Palace Hotel  -- also a first -- took the
orchestra to Perth and Sydney, and winds up with concerts last
night and tonight in Singapore.  The standing ovation at the  Sydney Opera House  was
something to behold. Some 2,500 people were on their feet,
howling approval, just moments after the final bars of  Mahler ’s
First Symphony. The ovations marked the end of the  Berlin
Philharmonic ’s first-ever tour of Australia with Rattle.  “It must have been a full moon,” says Rattle, 55. “I
must say we have a reputation for being quite a wild orchestra,
and I think we met our match in that audience. It’s either
thrilling or really scary, I’m not sure which. You don’t expect
a reception like that because I’m not a football player. But the
warmth is touching.”  Hierarchical Seating  The logistics of touring a 128-member symphony orchestra,
its entourage and instruments are intriguing. Orchestral
tradition dictates that aircraft seating is arranged according
to age and length of service. Senior orchestral members sit in
first class, while younger players and non-members stretch out
across rows of empty seats in economy.  Rattle, relaxed in pullover and trousers, is a frequent
visitor to the economy section throughout the 8-hour flight to
Singapore, often stopping to joke with his musicians, who
celebrate their landing in each new city with a traditional
pillow fight.  “I’m skeptical about touring, both in terms of the
environment and in terms of the cost of it,” Rattle says. “I’m
sure within my lifetime the matter will be decided for us,
because we won’t be able to tour those kinds of distances any
more. We’ll be carbon capped, and so we should be.  ‘‘You have to be skeptical in that way, but not about the
effect it has on people. For those of us who believe that music
is different in every part of the world and that music should be
live, it’s something else. I remember how overwhelmed I was
hearing the  Vienna Philharmonic  live for the first time -- in
Boston, of all places -- in my late 20s. It changed my
perception of sound and of what’s possible. I hope there are
people for whom some of this would have had the same impact.  ‘New Story’  ‘‘There’s something to be said for rarity value. They have
wonderful orchestras in Australia, but they knew that they were
hearing something very different. This is a new story for those
people.”  Rattle and the philharmonic have received rapturous
welcomes everywhere they have performed on the tour, which is
funded by a combination of government subsidy, sponsorship and
ticket sales.  “It’s a similar feeling that we had in Taiwan, 2,000
people in the hall and almost 40,000 people outside, listening
on screens in the rain,” Rattle says. “Then welcoming us, and
you suddenly feel it’s from people’s hearts.  Audience Investment  ‘‘You feel it before you’ve started. When we came onto the
stage in Australia, the orchestra and I looked at each other and
we thought, this had better be good! The warmth does buoy you
up. There’s a feeling of such investment in it, and that’s
special. I don’t think audiences always realize how much they
make a performance, and what a contract it is between listeners.  ‘‘We’ve all taken a lot away from that,” Rattle says.
“You can see people trying to come to terms with it. Look at
this plane, look at the privilege. Underneath it all, people
feel, do we really deserve this? You have to find a way to deal
with it. But it makes your heart a bit bigger, I would say.”  The euphoria of the tour provides a healing climate for a
relationship between orchestra and chief conductor that has
sometimes been tense. Rattle describes the Berlin Philharmonic
as “an orchestra which burns.”  “There is something about the fierce depth with which they
play which is unique,” he says. “You put your hands too close
to it and they can be scorched.”  Speculation about orchestral dissatisfaction with Rattle
was silenced in October last year, when the conductor’s contract
was extended through 2018. The self-governed Berlin Philharmonic
makes its decisions by majority vote.  ‘Pure Music’  “This group at its best can be really pure music,” says
Rattle. “And you forget that there are individuals. It’s like
watching incredible shoals of fish in the Maldives just move
together. There’s an organic feeling in how the orchestra wants
to play, and it’s like a type of breathing. It simply takes a
long time to learn.”  A return visit to Australia for the orchestra might be on
the cards for 2016, but Rattle says he doesn’t want to wait that
long for his next trip Down Under. Next time, he says, he’ll
bring his wife, singer  Magdalena Kozena , and their two children.
Though he doesn’t usually accept guest-conducting work, he would
seriously consider making an exception to the rule to work with
an Australian orchestra.  “Magdalena couldn’t believe that I spent all that time in
Australia and didn’t see a single kangaroo or a koala,” he
says. “Somehow I missed the chance. But I did have one of the
greatest meals I’ve had in my life at a Sydney restaurant called
Quay, and I did see lots of birds and water dragons. So next
time, with the kids, we obviously have to go and explore.”  Information:  http://www.berliner-philharmoniker.com .  ( Shirley Apthorp  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Shirley Apthorp in Singapore at  Sarabande@me.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 