-- Singh Brothers' Religare Asset Picks Indian Small Companies to Catch Rally
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2010-11-23T01:56:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/singh-brothers-religare-asset-picks-indian-small-companies-to-catch-rally.html
Investors who missed Indian stocks’
rally to a  record  may find gains among smaller companies in the
next six months, according to Religare Asset Management Co.,
controlled by the billionaire Singh brothers.  Among the September quarter’s earnings, “the positive
surprises were more in the small- and mid-cap space,”  Mohit Mirchandani , who manages 5.6 billion rupees ($123 million) as
head of investments, portfolio management services, at Religare
Asset, said in an interview yesterday, declining to name
companies or specify potential gains. “These have lagged behind
the benchmark stocks in the last two to three months.”  The  Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index  has climbed 14
percent this year through yesterday and closed at an all-time
high on Nov. 5 as foreign funds pumped in record amounts while
chasing returns from the world’s third-fastest growing major
economy. Surging spending is driving profit growth at companies
including Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd., a sport-utility vehicle
maker, and drugmakers such as  Dishman Pharmaceuticals Ltd.   The 30-member  Sensex  has climbed 8.5 percent in the three
months to yesterday, more than the BSE Mid-Cap Index’s 4.6
percent and the BSE Small-Cap Index’s 5.2 percent. The Sensex
trades at 18.9 times estimated profit, the most expensive among
the world’s 10 biggest markets, while the  BSE Mid-Cap Index  is
at 15.1 times and the BSE Small-Cap Index at 10.2 times.  Consumer product makers, health-care companies and
financial institutions are among shares preferred by Mirchandani
as he expects them to benefit from increasing demand. He’s
avoiding real estate and telecommunication stocks because of
“uncertainties” about their outlook.  Singh Brothers  Religare Asset is part of the Indian financial services
group controlled by the Singh brothers,  Malvinder Mohan  and
 Shivinder Mohan , ranked among the 20 wealthiest people in India
by Forbes magazine. Religare Mutual Fund had some 107.8 billion
rupees of assets under management at the end of September,
according to the Association of Mutual Funds in India.  The Sensex had fallen for two straight weeks to a two-month
low on Nov. 19 as the government faced censure over the sale of
phone licenses at below-market rates that may have cost the
nation 1.4 trillion rupees in revenue. India’s chief auditor on
Nov. 16 said the 2008 sale of airwaves “lacked transparency and
was undertaken in an arbitrary, unfair and inequitable manner.”  “There is a serious risk of foreign institutional
investors actually downgrading India because of political
events,” Mirchandani said. “That could be our biggest risk.”  Growth Forecasts  The Sensex yesterday rose 1.9 percent as UBS AG said the
“correction” in the nation’s stocks offered a good entry point
into bank shares.  Earnings growth and slowing inflation will spur further
gains in the nation’s equities, Sukumar Rajah, Franklin
Templeton Investment’s chief investment officer of Asian
equities, said on Nov. 3. Abhay Laijawala and Abhishek Saraf,
analysts at Deutsche Bank AG, on Nov. 4 forecast accelerating
foreign fund inflows would help drive gains in Indian stocks.  Overseas funds  have bought a net 1.29 trillion rupees of
the nation’s stocks this year, helping to push the Sensex to its
highest closing level of 21,004.96 on Nov. 5. The International
Monetary Fund raised its growth forecast for India on Oct. 6 to
9.7 percent from 9.4 percent, the fastest pace among major
economies after China.  Mirchandani, 37, who was head of equity investments at
Taurus Mutual Fund in Mumbai until June, in an April interview
predicted drugmakers would lead gains in the nation’s equities.
The  BSE Healthcare Index  has rallied 32 percent so far this
year, outperforming the 14 percent advance for the Sensex.  Drugmakers  Shares in Dishman Pharmaceuticals, on the mid-cap gauge,
fell 28 percent in the three months through yesterday, even as
quarterly profit exceeded analysts’ estimates by 14 percent, the
data shows. The stock trades at 10 times earnings, while
Mahindra, a Sensex member, is at 17.  Mahindra , whose net income
beat analyst predictions by 22 percent, has climbed 24 percent
in the period.  Opportunities for drugmakers “are huge given that
countries around the world are trying to bring down health-care
costs,” Mirchandani said. “The Indian consumer is the most
under-leveraged in the world. So, that means a lot of loan
growth for the banks. On a structural basis, we just think every
bank is worth looking at on every correction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  