-- India Phone Permit Impasse Stalls Bills on Investment
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2010-11-23T11:43:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/singh-stalled-by-deadlock-with-lawmakers-over-disputed-indian-phone-sales.html
A deadlock over phone-license sales
may mean India’s parliament is its least productive for any year
since  Manmohan Singh  became prime minister in 2004, as bills to
end land disputes and unlock $100 billion in investment stall.  Opposition parties have prevented discussion of legislation
since the current session began Nov. 9, seeking an investigation
into allegations the government sold permits at below-market
rates that may have cost the state $31 billion. Singh’s
government enacted 39 laws this year, the fewest since 2004,
according to New Delhi-based  PRS Legislative Research .  Failure to resolve the impasse threatens to hamper Singh’s
goal of lifting 828 million people out of poverty even as he
presided over an average 8.5 percent economic growth rate in the
past five years. Companies including South Korea’s Posco, which
plans to invest $12 billion in a steel mill in the eastern state
of Orissa, are waiting for a bill this winter session that may
enable them to acquire land and avoid disputes with villagers.  “The long agenda will be impossible to implement,” said
C.V. Madhukar, director at PRS. “Potentially, it will slow the
government’s aim of inclusive growth and more reforms.”  Prime Minister Singh on Nov. 20 rejected allegations that
he had delayed responding to calls to prosecute the minister who
awarded the phone licenses and pledged to punish the guilty.  Raja’s Role  The  Central Bureau of Investigation  has been examining the
role of Andimuthu Raja and the Ministry of Communications, which
he headed, in the pricing of the permits since October last year.
Separately, the Supreme Court has been hearing public-interest
petitions on the subject.  The government sold wireless airwaves in 2008 for 123.9
billion rupees ($2.7 billion), though they were worth as much as
1.5 trillion rupees, the Comptroller and Auditor General of
India said in a report to parliament in New Delhi on Nov. 15.  Raja resigned a day before India’s chief auditor said the
sale “lacked transparency and was undertaken in an arbitrary,
unfair and inequitable manner.”  “My conscience is clear,” Raja said after resigning,
adding he would prove he hadn’t broken any rules.  The Central Bureau of Investigation told the Supreme Court
yesterday that it will complete its probe by March 31.  Steepest Drop  The Bombay Stock Exchange’s benchmark Sensitive Index, or
 Sensex , fell to its lowest level in two months on Nov. 19 as the
government faced censure over the handling of the phone permits.
The gauge slid 1.3 percent to 19,691.84 at the 3:30 p.m. close
in Mumbai, after earlier sliding the most in a year.  The standstill in parliament over the sale of phone permits
isn’t preventing investors such as  Vikas Pershad  from buying
Indian stocks.  “I’ve never been more bullish on the India story,” said
Pershad, Chicago-based chief executive officer at Veda
Investments LLC. “I have yet to find a country in which
corruption doesn’t exist, and why must particular countries be
consistently blamed for it? I apply a far tighter filter to
investments in China and Russia than India.”  As many as 32 bills are listed for parliamentary approval
in this session. Among them is an amendment to a law on how
farmland is purchased for industries to help ease disputes that
have stalled as much as $100 billion of projects, according to
the Associated Chamber of Commerce and Industry of India.  Lost Hours  Of the 48 hours of scheduled  parliament  time this session
as many as 42.42 hours were lost in the lower house, according
to PRS.  A meeting of political leaders to end the parliamentary
deadlock ended yesterday without any resolution as opposition
parties sought an investigation into the license sales by a
panel of lawmakers.  “We are sticking to our stand for a probe by a joint
parliamentary committee,” said  Sushma Swaraj , who heads the
main opposition Bharatiya Janata Party in the lower house.  The standoff continued for an eighth day and both houses
were adjourned till tomorrow.  Singh made “inclusive growth” the centerpiece of his
economic policy since coming to power in 2004, after the
electorate ended the six-year rule of the  BJP . The World Bank
estimates 828 million Indians live on less than $2 a day.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bibhudatta Pradhan  in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Macaskill  in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at   hgovind@bloomberg.net ;
Bill Austin at   billaustin@bloomberg.net  