-- Sky Deutschland Slides After Announcing BaFin Finds Flaws in Statements
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   S a r a h   R a b i l
-- 2010-11-23T17:24:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/sky-deutschland-shares-falls-after-regulator-points-to-flawed-statements.html
Sky Deutschland AG , the pay-
television operator controlled by  Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp.,
fell the most since Nov. 2 after the German financial regulator
said some of its past trading statements were flawed.  Sky Deutschland shares closed 5.9 percent lower at 1.47
euros in Frankfurt trading. Late yesterday, the Unterfoehring,
Germany-based business said financial regulator BaFin had found
irregularities in the unprofitable company’s statements for 2007
and the first half of 2008 that could result in fines or claims
for damages.  While the implications of the BaFin charges remain unclear,
it is “another drop in the bucket for people to say it’s not
worth it,” said  Boris Boehm , who helps manage about 1 billion
euros ($1.35 billion) at Aramea Asset Management in Hamburg.  News Corp., which also owns a controlling stake in  British
Sky Broadcasting Plc  and Sky Italia in Europe, bought a 14.6
percent stake in January, 2008 in the German company that was
then called Premiere AG. The New York-based media group now owns
 49.9 percent  of Sky Deutschland, which listed on the Frankfurt
bourse in March, 2005.  Sky Deutschland yesterday said the regulator’s claims are
“inapplicable” and will be legally reviewed, and have no
immediate effect on its balance sheet.  The company is in the midst of a turnaround plan under
Chief Executive Officer  Brian Sullivan . It has a “long way to
go” before becoming profitable, Sullivan said at a conference
in Barcelona last week.  Accounting Norms  On Aug. 2, the company, which posted a loss in 2009, said
it expects a loss before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization in 2010 and that although 2011 will be
“significantly better,” it “will still remain negative.”  According to BaFin, the pay-TV operator overstated profit
as a result of incorrect accounting for the purchase of World
Cup soccer broadcast rights and didn’t sufficiently point out
credit risks.  At the end of 2007, the company’s value was overstated by
248.4 million euros because of inaccurate accounting for some
acquisitions, the regulator said.  Sky Deutschland currently owns the broadcast rights for
games in the Bundesliga, Germany’s first-tier soccer division,
though not over Internet TV or on mobile devices, where  Deutsche
Telekom AG  owns the rights.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sarah Rabil  in New York at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Campbell  in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 