-- SNB's Hildebrand Says He's `Confident' About Europe Restoring Stability
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2010-11-23T12:48:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/snb-s-hildebrand-says-he-s-confident-about-europe-restoring-stability.html
Swiss central bank President  Philipp Hildebrand  said he’s “confident” that European leaders will be
able to restore economic and financial stability, easing
pressure on the franc.  “The financial crisis and financial-market concerns
regarding the public finances of a number of industrialized
countries have increased demand for the Swiss franc as a safe-
haven currency,” Hildebrand said at an event in Brussels today.
“I’m confident that the European Union and the euro area will
overcome these challenges. The stability of the euro area” is
“an important factor influencing the” franc and the economy.  The Swiss franc has appreciated almost 11 percent against
the euro this year as Europe’s fiscal crisis eroded confidence
in the currency shared by 16 member states. Ireland on Nov. 21
became the second euro-member state after Greece to request
emergency aid from the EU and the International Monetary Fund.  The  Swiss National Bank  in June stopped its intervention
policy after purchasing billions of euros to prevent the franc
from strengthening and fight the risk of deflation.  ‘Far-Reaching’ Measures  “The SNB remains firmly focused on maintaining price
stability, a task which is consistent neither with deflation nor
with inflation,” Hildebrand said. “As we have demonstrated,
the SNB is prepared, in a crisis situation, to take
exceptionally far-reaching measures to fulfil its mandate.”  At its last policy assessment in September, the SNB said
there’s a “possibility that inflation will temporarily turn
slightly negative” at the beginning of next year as the economy
weakens. Hildebrand said today that the “dreaded scenario of a
deflationary dynamic” could be avoided “so far.”  The franc was little changed after Hildebrand’s remarks and
traded at 1.3365 versus the euro at 1.45 p.m. in Zurich.  A stronger franc has “obviously impaired the price
competitiveness of  Swiss exporters ,” Hildebrand said. The
currency’s gains “will be reflected sooner or later.”  The SNB will hold its next monetary policy assessment on
Dec. 16 in Zurich.  -- Editors: Simone Meier, Jeffrey Donovan  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simone Meier at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net  