-- South Korea Prepared to Implement Market-Stability Measures After Shelling
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2010-11-23T10:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/south-korea-prepared-to-implement-market-stability-measures-after-shelling.html
South Korea began a 24-hour market
watch as officials prepared measures to address any financial
turmoil in the aftermath of what the government said was North
Korean shelling of a border island.  The  Bank of Korea  held an unscheduled meeting late today in
Seoul, and deputies from the BOK and government agencies gather
tomorrow at 7:30 a.m. to discuss the market impact and potential
countermeasures, the finance ministry said in a statement.
Regulators will take preemptive steps if needed, the Financial
Services Commission and Financial Supervisory Service said.  A record stockpile of $293.4 billion in  foreign-exchange
reserves  in October offers officials firepower to help stem any
selloff in the nation’s assets. Policy makers have in recent
weeks focused on stemming an influx of speculative capital into
Asia’s fourth-largest economy, and intervened in the currency
market this year as the won rose against the dollar.  “In the past, they’ve been active in both the currency and
fixed-income markets to provide support or smoothing operations
and it’s possible we could see that again if stress were to
intensify,” said  Tim Condon , head of Asian research at ING
Groep NV in Singapore. “It will depend on North Korea --
whether this turns into more than a one-day event.”  South Korea scrambled fighter jets and returned fire after
North Korea lobbed dozens of shells into its waters and an
island, injuring 14 soldiers, according to the government and
YTN reports. Television footage showed smoke billowing from
Yeonpyeong island off South Korea’s northwest coast, where the
shelling set fire to houses, YTN said.  Won, Swaps  Won forwards dropped the most in more than two years and
bond futures fell. The cost of credit-default swaps insuring
South Korean government debt from default jumped 17 basis points
to 101 basis points as of 6:40 p.m. in Seoul, according to Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc prices.  “We will decide what to do after watching developments,”
 Yoon Jong Won , director general at the finance ministry in
Seoul, said by telephone today. “We’re closely monitoring the
financial markets.”  The ministry said in its statement that officials are
monitoring markets including credit-default swaps and
nondeliverable won forwards, and moves by credit rating agencies
and foreign investors. Finance Minister Yoon Jeung Hyun said the 
shelling will have a limited impact on the economy, Yonhap news 
agency reported.  Interest Rates  South Korea’s currency had rallied the past two months as
escalating inflation pressures prompted bets the central bank
would raise interest rates further. The BOK last week boosted
its benchmark by a quarter point to 2.5 percent, and dropped a
pledge to keep borrowing costs “accommodative.”  Policy makers also this month took steps to curb foreign
inflows of capital blamed in part on monetary stimulus in
advanced nations. The government is backing legislation
reinstating a 14 percent tax on interest income from treasury
and central bank bonds and a 20 percent capital gains levy on
their sale.  The security incident “will likely have no small impact on
stock, bond and currency markets tomorrow,” BOK Deputy Governor
 Lee Ju Yeol  said at the start of this evening’s emergency
session. “We all should closely monitor the financial markets
with high alert and be fully prepared to take appropriate action
in cooperation with the government when necessary.”  Earlier Incident  Earlier this year, the won recovered from a 10-month low
after tensions escalated over the March sinking of a South
Korean warship that the government said was caused by North
Korea. The nation’s economic rebound from the global recession
also continued, with gross domestic product expanding 7.2
percent in the second quarter from a year before.  Governor  Kim Choong Soo  raised the benchmark seven-day
repurchase rate by a quarter point from a record-low 2 percent
in July. The central bank will probably keep boosting the rate
to 3.75 percent by the third quarter of 2011, said Condon at
ING.  “Intense political strains with the north would probably
mean some change to that forecast,” Condon said. “They might
even have to cut rates if things got dire enough, but I’m
assuming things don’t get that dire.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  