-- South Africa's Economy Expands Less Than Expected as Manufacturing Drops
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2010-11-23T11:49:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/south-africa-s-economy-expands-less-than-expected-as-manufacturing-drops.html
South Africa’s economy expanded an
annualized 2.6 percent in the third quarter, less than forecast,
as a rally in the rand and weak global demand led to a decline
in manufacturing.  The growth in  gross domestic product  eased from a revised
2.8 percent in the three months through June,  Statistics South
Africa  said in a report released in Pretoria today. The  median
estimate  of 20 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for growth
of 3.3 percent. Second-quarter expansion was previously
calculated at 3.2 percent.  “What is most striking about this quarter is manufacturing
and its major contraction,” Rashaad Cassim, a deputy director-
general at the statistics agency, told reporters. “We’re seeing
that the recovery from the recession still remains modest.”  The South African Reserve Bank on Nov. 18 cut its key
lending rate to 5.5 percent, the ninth reduction since December
2008, to maintain momentum in the economy. The rebound from last
year’s recession is under strain from weak global demand and a
35 percent rally in the rand against the dollar since the
beginning of last year that has undermined exports and slashed
import prices.  Mining Expansion  Mining expanded 28.1 percent in the third quarter after
contracting 22.2 in the second, while manufacturing shrank 5
percent after increasing 5 percent in the previous three months,
the statistics agency said.  Construction growth slowed to 0.8 percent from 1 percent,
while agriculture surged 16.3 percent after expanding 13.6
percent in the second quarter. The retail trade and hotels
industry increased 3.3 percent, down from 6 percent, while
growth in the finance and real-estate industry slowed to 1.5
percent from 3.8 percent.  The rand traded at 7.0337 per dollar at 1:24 p.m. in
Johannesburg, little changed from before the release of the
growth data.  “The domestic economic recovery remains fragile, and the
adverse global developments make the growth outlook more
uncertain,” central bank Governor  Gill Marcus  said on Nov. 18.
The decision to cut rates was appropriate “given the weakness
in the supply side of the economy.”  The economy will probably expand 2.8 percent this year and
3.3 percent next year, after shrinking 1.8 percent in 2009,
Marcus said.  Fragile Recovery  The disappointing growth numbers underline “the fragile
nature of the recovery,” Nedbank Group Ltd., South Africa’s
third-largest bank, said in e-mailed comments. “Further easing
in monetary policy is still possible if growth disappoints again
and the rand remains strong.”  The government is targeting 7 percent annual growth over
the next two decades to boost jobs and cut poverty. The economy
shed 86,000 jobs in the third quarter, leaving the  jobless rate 
at 25.3 percent, the highest of 62 countries tracked by
Bloomberg.  “We continue to expect that growth for 2010 will average a
weak 2.8 percent year-on-year, with growth in the fourth quarter
only very slightly stronger than the third quarter,”  Annabel Bishop , an economist at Investec Ltd. in Johannesburg, said in a
note to clients. “Surviving companies are typically not
employing or investing until the recovery proves sustainable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 