-- South African Business Confidence Declines From 2 1/2-Year High, RMB Says
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2010-11-23T11:01:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/south-african-business-confidence-declines-from-2-1-2-year-high-rmb-says.html
South African business confidence
slid in the fourth quarter, amid a decline in confidence among
vehicle dealers, after reaching its highest level in 2½ years in
the previous three months, Rand Merchant Bank said.  The  index  declined to 44 from 47 in the third quarter, the
investment bank, a unit of  FirstRand Ltd. , said in an e-mail
today. The survey is compiled by RMB and the University of
Stellenbosch’s Bureau for Economic Research.  The “decline is statistically insignificant and represents
a blip in an otherwise rising trend in business confidence,”
RMB’s Chief Economist  Ettienne le Roux  said in the statement.  The index may reverse “this quarter’s small decline to
continue on an upward path, taking the index close to or
slightly above the breakeven 50 mark early next year,” he said.
“Such a level would be more or less consistent with an expansion
in the overall economy of around 3 percent this year and in
2011.”  Gross domestic product expanded an annualized 2.6 percent
in the third quarter, down from a revised 2.8 percent in the
previous three months as manufacturing slumped, the government
statistics agency said today. In its mid-term budget released on
Oct. 27, the National Treasury said it expected the economy to
grow 3 percent this year and 3.5 percent next year.  Confidence among new vehicle dealers dropped 28 points to
51 in the third quarter, RMB said.  “This decline takes confidence levels back to more or less
the same level as in the second quarter,” the bank said. That
suggests “the third quarter number of 79 was artificially
boosted in anticipation of increased sales before the carbon tax
on new vehicles became effective.”  The index measuring manufacturers’ confidence improved to
41 from 30 in the third quarter, the highest level since the
second quarter of 2008, RMB said. Confidence amongst  retailers 
jumped 11 points to 63.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 