-- South Africa Money-Market Futures Decline to Record Low on Growth, Rates
-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 2010-11-23T15:45:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/south-african-stocks-rand-fall-as-north-south-korea-clash-anglo-drops.html
South African money-market futures
headed for a record low and the rand slumped to the dollar after
a report showed the nation’s economy grew by less than
estimated, raising bets the central bank will cut its main rate.  The  cost of three-month cash contracts due in a month 
dropped 2.5 basis points to 5.52 percent, the lowest since the
central bank first introduced its repurchase rate in 1999. The
currency of Africa’s biggest economy weakened by as much as 0.9
percent to 7.0894 per dollar and traded at 7.0878 by 5:22 p.m.
in Johannesburg. The benchmark 13.5 percent bond due September
2015 fell 19 cents to 125.79 rand, raising the yield by 4 basis
points to 7.07 percent.  The economy  expanded 2.6 percent  in the third quarter,
Statistics South Africa said in a report released today. The
median estimate of 20 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for a
3.3 percent advance. A warning from Moody’s Investors Service
that it may downgrade Ireland sent Asian markets lower while the
Standard & Poor’s 500 and Stoxx Europe 600 indexes sank. Markets
also fell as North and South Korea exchanged artillery fire.  “The market will react to this data by immediately pricing
in an increased probability of further easing,”  Razia Khan ,
London-based regional head of research for Africa at Standard
Chartered Bank Plc, said in an e-mailed note today. “For our
part, we’re not so sure there is still appetite for that, but
with the domestic picture this weak, the South African
authorities will be that much more wary of any new external
setbacks to growth.”  Rate  The central bank cut its  key lending rate  to 5.5 percent on
Nov. 18, the ninth reduction since December to maintain momentum
in the economy. The rebound from last year’s recession is under
strain from weak global demand and a 35 percent rally in the
rand against the dollar since the beginning of last year, which
has undermined exports and slashed import prices.  South Korea scrambled fighter jets and returned fire after
North Korea lobbed dozens of shells into its waters and an
island, injuring 14 soldiers.  “There are external risks and possibilities that the
confrontation in Korea might escalate,”  Matt Brenzel , a
portfolio manager at Cape Town-based Cadiz Asset Management,
said in an interview today. There are also “concerns whether
the bailout of Ireland is sufficient or whether the country will
have to apply for additional funding to sort itself out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  