-- South Africa Plans Sovereign Wealth Fund to Help Manage Reserves, Currency
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2010-11-23T16:48:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/south-africa-says-monetary-policy-will-do-more-to-help-rand-in-new-plan.html
South Africa’s government said it
will establish a sovereign wealth fund to help manage the
country’s foreign reserves and the value of the currency.  The proposal is contained in the government’s new economic
growth strategy, which was released in Cape Town today and aims
to create 5 million jobs over the next decade. A road outline of
the plan, which was drafted by the Economic Development
Ministry, was released on Oct. 26.  Africa’s largest economy shed 86,000 jobs in the third
quarter, leaving the  jobless rate  at 25.3 percent, little
changed from the previous three months. Efforts to tackle
unemployment have been undermined by the rand’s 35 percent surge
against the dollar since the beginning of last year, which has
eroded the competitiveness of the country’s exports and cut
import prices.  “The document recognizes the challenges of an
uncompetitive currency and sets out clear steps for government
to address the impact of the rand on the economy and jobs,” the
ministry said in a statement. “This includes a somewhat looser
monetary policy with lower interest  rates , greater building of
foreign reserves and a sovereign wealth fund to manage foreign
reserves more actively.”  The fund will invest in development projects in Africa and
should ensure South Africa expands other industries as its
mineral resource base is depleted, Economic Development Minister
 Ebrahim Patel  said by telephone from Pretoria.  Details to Follow  “I won’t be able to give you any answers on the size of
the fund,” he said. “We are putting this on the table” and
details will be worked out next year.  The new strategy envisions the central bank continuing to
target “low and stable  inflation ” while doing more to support
a competitive exchange rate.  There will be “additional, larger purchases of foreign
currency flowing into South Africa” to counter the appreciation
of the rand, the document says. “A further set of measures to
address the competitiveness of the exchange rate is being
explored, including measures to address the negative effects of
short-term capital flows.”  South Africa’s gold and foreign currency reserves increased
0.3 percent to $44.2 billion in October, the Pretoria-based
Reserve Bank said on its website on Nov. 5.  Determined  “We need to do more” to address the overvalued currency,
Patel said. “Governments don’t publicize step by step what they
do, but we want to give an indication of direction, of our
determination to do something, and something fairly significant,
around the rand.”  The central bank cut its benchmark interest rate to 5.5
percent on Nov. 18, the ninth reduction since December 2008, to
spur growth as inflation remained within its 3 percent to 6
percent target band. The bank saw limited room for further
reductions, Governor  Gill Marcus  said.  The plan aims to boost the growth rate to between 4 percent
and 7 percent a year. Growth in gross domestic product eased to
2.6 percent in the third quarter from a revised 2.8 percent in
the three months through June, the government statistics agency
said in a report today.  The growth plan also calls for a “pact” between
government, business and labor to create jobs and enhance
economic competitiveness. It proposes that workers earning
between 3,000 rand ($424) and 20,000 rand a month agree to wage
increases that are slightly above the inflation rate, while
pegging increases for those earning between 20,000 rand and
45,000 rand to the inflation rate.  Wage Pact  “High earners, taking home over 45,000 rand a month would
see increases below inflation or capped,” the ministry said.
“Restraint in executive pay and bonuses would address excessive
pay differentials and display solidarity across society.”  The new plan also calls for a revision of the government’s
empowerment policies aimed at ensuring the country’s wealth is
more equitably distributed to the black majority, and for all
workers to contribute toward a retirement fund.  “The new economic growth path currently lacks a clear and
directly articulated vision,” the Democratic Alliance, the main
opposition party, said in an e-mailed statement. “It promises
fundamental changes in the country’s economic approach without
clearly indicating how these changes will be achieved and
includes many contradictory policies and policy priorities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 