-- Soybeans Decline as Chinese Inflation Curbs May Erode Demand; Corn Falls
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s   a n d   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2010-11-23T14:16:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/soybeans-decline-as-chinese-inflation-curbs-may-erode-demand-corn-falls.html
Soybeans, corn and wheat fell in
Chicago, erasing gains, on speculation that Chinese demand will
slow as the government adopts price controls.  China said last week it may implement controls on necessary
items including those used to make food to curb inflation that
reached a two-year high in October. Food costs jumped 10.1
percent that month, according to statistics bureau data. China
also may sell from government stockpiles to slow rising prices,
farm adviser Agritel said in a report.  “The oilseed market remains uncertain, with an unfavorable
economy in the short term, related to the situation in China,”
Paris-based Agritel said. “Chinese authorities are planning to
sell basic products such as oilseeds and cereals on the domestic
market, coming from national stocks to limit the increase.”  Prices also dropped as the dollar strengthened, making U.S.
crops more expensive in terms of other monies, after North and
South Korea exchanged artillery fire. The U.S. Dollar Index, a
six-currency gauge of the greenback’s strength, added as much as
0.7 percent.  Soybeans for January delivery fell 2.25 cents, or 0.2
percent, to $12.1925 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade at
1:14 p.m. London time, wiping out a climb of as much as 2
percent. The oilseed is down 1.4 percent this month, partly on
speculation Chinese demand will wane.  Corn for March delivery dropped 4.5 cents, or 0.9 percent,
to $5.2475 a bushel. The grain has plunged 9.8 percent since the
end of October.  March-delivery wheat slid 3.5 cents, or 0.5 percent, to
$6.81 a bushel. The grain has lost 5.1 percent this month on
speculation global stockpiles will outweigh declining output in
Russia and Ukraine. Milling wheat for January delivery traded on
NYSE Liffe in Paris gained 0.5 percent to 212 euros ($285.83) a
metric ton.  South Korea returned fire and scrambled fighter jets after
North Korean artillery killed two soldiers on an island near the
countries’ border.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tony C. Dreibus  in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net ;
 Rudy Ruitenberg  in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 