-- Spanish, Porguguese Bonds Fall After Selloff of Irish Notes; Bunds Advance
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2010-11-23T11:24:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/spain-portugal-bonds-drop-on-debt-concern-bunds-rise-on-korea-skirmish.html
Spanish and Portuguese government
bonds slid amid speculation more countries will struggle to
manage their deficits after Ireland’s bailout failed to check a
selloff in the nation’s bonds.  German two-year  yields  dropped below 1 percent as North and
South Korea exchanged fire and concern mounted that the
sovereign-debt crisis will escalate, lifting the safest assets.
Irish bonds fell as Prime Minister Brian Cowen  said he would
seek elections after his government’s budget passes. The
European Union and International Monetary Fund said Greece must
make an “extra effort” to cut its deficit to keep receiving
aid. Spain missed its maximum target in a sale of debt today.  “None of these countries look sustainable, and that means
wider spreads” between benchmark bunds and peripheral-nation
debt, said  Mark Schofield , head of interest-rate strategy at
Citigroup Inc. in London. “Korea is another bit of uncertainty
at a time when the markets are very nervous.”  Spanish 10-year bonds fell a sixth day, sending the yield
seven basis points higher to 4.83 percent as of 10:35 a.m. in
London, the highest since June 17. The extra yield investors
demand to hold the securities instead of German bunds widened
nine basis points to 219 basis points.  Portugal’s 10-year yield rose five basis points to 6.87
percent and Ireland’s added nine basis points to 8.40 percent.  Bund Yield  The yield on the 10-year bund declined three basis points,
or 0.03 percentage point, to 2.62 percent. The 2.25 percent
security maturing in September 2020 gained 0.23, or 2.30 euros
per 1,000-euro ($1,359) face amount, fell to 96.82. The two-year
note yield fell three basis points to 1.01 percent. It touched
0.98 percent, the lowest since Nov. 12, according to Bloomberg
generic data.  North Korea fired dozens of artillery shells near the
western border with South Korea, prompting the South to scramble
jets and return fire. Equities fell, with the Stoxx Europe 600
Index 0.6 percent lower.  “The Korean headlines have had a negative impact on risky
markets and that’s added to the flight to quality we were seeing
because of our own internal turbulence,” said  David Schnautz , a
fixed-income strategist at Commerzbank AG in London. “We are
confident of seeing bund yields heading lower.”  Spain sold 3.3 billion euros of Treasury bills today at
higher yields than previous sales. The indicative range set for
the offering was 3 billion euros to 4 billion euros.  ‘Zero Confidence’  The Treasury sold 2.1 billion euros of 3-month bills at an
average yield of 1.743 percent, compared with 0.951 percent at
the last sale on Oct. 26. It also sold 1.2 billion euros of 6-
month bills at 2.111 percent, versus 1.285 percent last month.  Bond yields in the so-called peripheral nations initially
subsided after the EU and the IMF announced a backstop for
ailing nations worth about $1 trillion on May 10. They’ve since
risen, with the increase accelerating since European leaders
agreed Oct. 29 to consider German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
proposal for a permanent rescue mechanism as of 2013 that would
include losses for sovereign-debt holders.  “The markets currently have virtually zero confidence that
the bailout in Ireland will solve the European crisis,”  Charles Diebel  and  David Page , fixed-income strategists at Lloyds TSB
Corporate Markets in London, wrote in a note today. “With
markets effectively in a position to dictate policy, the risk is
that the credibility crisis shifts to more sizeable EU countries
and thereby poses a greater risk to the system as a whole.”  Greece’s pledge to trim its budget shortfall to 7.5 percent
of gross domestic product next year has been complicated by
slower-than-forecast revenue growth and a revision of economic
data, EU and IMF officials reviewing Greece’s progress said at a
press conference in Athens today.  “Buying Portuguese sovereign debt is a good investment,”
Portuguese Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  said in an interview on
television channel SIC Noticias. Portugal “doesn’t need aid. We
will solve our own problems.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  