-- Spain Begins $18 Billion Power-Bond Sale Program as Yields on Debt Surges
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2010-11-24T10:17:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/spain-regulator-approves-18-billion-program-to-sell-bonds-linked-to-power.html
Spain is beginning a 13.5 billion-
euro ($18 billion) program to sell government-guaranteed bonds
backed by revenue from consumer electricity bills just as the
yield on the country’s sovereign debt soars.  Bankers start sounding out investor interest in the first
tranche of the bonds today, managers of the program said in a
regulatory  filing . The spread between Spanish government bonds
and German sovereign debt touched a euro-era record, reducing
the potential proceeds from the sale.  The government is trying to end a two-year drought in
selling bonds to bridge the so-called tariff deficit as part of
its decade-long policy to subsidize power rates, or tariffs. The
proceeds will pay back utilities including  Iberdrola SA  and Enel
SpA’s  Endesa  unit for using their own funds to cover regulated
costs. By doing so they helped keep increases in customer prices
below or close to the inflation rate.  Iberdrola  and Endesa, Spain’s biggest power producers, are
owed about 3.7 billion euros and 7.7 billion euros,
respectively, after using their cash and debt to cover the gap
between revenue they receive from customers and what has been
promised by the government. About 3 billion euros is owed to
other Spanish utilities, including Gas Natural SDG SA and the
local units of E. ON AG  and EDP-Energias de  Portugal SA .  The extra yield on Spanish 10-year debt compared with the
German equivalent rose as contagion from Ireland’s fiscal crisis
swept through the southern euro area. The spread widened as much
as 13 basis points to 249 basis points today, the most since the
single currency was created in 1999.  The accumulated debt of all Spanish utilities from delayed
electricity payments, including the local units of E.ON and EDP-
Energias de Portugal, will reach 14.6 billion euros by the end
of this year, the government has previously said.  The government by law can add as much as 3 billion euros
more to the deficit for 2011 and 2012 that also would be
eligible for securitizing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Sills  in Madrid at   bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net  