-- Spain Doesn't Plan Further Austerity Measures as Budget Gap Almost Halves
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2010-11-23T15:43:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/spain-s-10-month-central-budget-deficit-narrows-47-on-public-spending-cut.html
Spain said it doesn’t need to adopt
further austerity measures to stem a surge in borrowing costs as
the central government’s budget gap narrowed by almost half.  The best thing “to generate credibility in the Spanish
economy is to execute the measures we have announced at the time
and in the way they were announced, and that implies not taking
additional measures,”  Jose Manuel Campa , deputy finance
minister for the economy, told reporters in Madrid today.  The  extra yield  on Spanish debt compared with German
equivalents hit a euro-era high today as contagion from
Ireland’s fiscal crisis swept through the southern euro area.
The Spanish government is implementing the deepest austerity
measures in at least three decades, including public-wage cuts
and tax increases, as it seeks to reduce the region’s third-
largest  budget  deficit by half in two years.  Spain’s central government  budget  deficit fell to 2.96
percent of gross domestic product in the first 10 months from
5.63 percent a year earlier as tax revenue rose 10.9 percent,
the Finance Ministry said in a  statement  in Madrid. The overall
 shortfall , which includes the regions’ balances, is also set to
meet the government’s goal this year,  Carlos Ocana , deputy
finance minister for budget issues, told Senate lawmakers.  Deficit Cuts  Spain’s Socialist government is cutting the deficit more
quickly than Ireland, Greece or Portugal. Greece’s state budget
deficit shrank 30 percent in the first 10 months, Portugal’s
shortfall through October widened while the deterioration of
Ireland’s finances under the weight of bank bailouts forced the
government to seek a European rescue plan on Nov. 21.  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Spanish bonds
rather than German equivalents surged to 233.8 basis points, up
from 209 basis points yesterday. That beat the previous euro-era
intraday high of 232.6 reached on June 17, when contagion from
Greece’s fiscal crisis prompted doubts about Spain’s ability to
refinance debt and support its banks.  “We have to convince people that we’re going to do exactly
what we said we were going to do,” Bank of Spain Governor
 Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez  told reporters in Madrid after
appearing before a Senate committee today. Spain’s deficit-
reduction effort is going “very well,” he said.  Pension Overhaul  Spain is reducing infrastructure spending, freezing
pensions next year and raising levies including a 2 percentage-
point increase in value-added tax. It plans to overhaul the
pension system and push through additional changes to wage-
bargaining and employment rules to complement a new labor law.  Prime Minister  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero  announced the
pension freeze, cuts to civil servants’ salaries and elimination
of subsidies for new mothers on May 12 after the euro region
agreed to create a 750 billion-euro ($1 trillion) rescue
facility for nations struggling to raise financing.  Ireland this week became the first nation to seek to tap
that fund, fueling an increase in borrowing costs for Portugal
and Spain. Portugal’s spread rose to 428 basis points today,
more than twice its level at the end of May.  “Spain is in a fundamentally strong” position, said
 Daniel McGovern , managing director at the sovereign risk group
at Moody’s Investors Service. “We do have concerns about
Portugal because their banking system is reliant on ECB
financing.”  Spain’s overall budget deficit,  which was 11.1 percent of
GDP last year, also includes the regional administrations’
shortfall and the balance of the social-security system, which
had a surplus of 0.96 percent of GDP in the first 10 months, the
Labor Ministry said today.  The government plans to cut the shortfall to 9.3 percent
this year and 6 percent next year, and Campa said he had “full
confidence” in the government’s ability to reach those targets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma Ross-Thomas  in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net . 