-- Statoil May Sell Holdings in U.S. Gulf Assets After Canada Oil Sands Stake
-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 2010-11-23T11:20:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/statoil-may-sell-holdings-in-u-s-gulf-assets-after-canada-oil-sands-stake.html
Statoil ASA , Norway’s biggest energy
company, said it may divest holdings in the Gulf of Mexico after
selling a stake in its oil sands project in Canada for $2.28
billion to PTT Exploration & Production Pcl.  Statoil is selling stakes in fields where it has 100
percent ownership to reduce risk and raise funds for projects.
The Stavanger-based company will retain 60 percent of Canada’s
Kai Kos Dehseh project in a transaction that will take effect
Jan. 1, it said in a  statement  today. The transaction follows
Statoil’s sale of a 40 percent stake of its Peregrino field off
Brazil to Sinochem Group for $3.1 billion in May.  “We’re sitting on a few exploration licenses where we have
100 percent and where it’s also our intention to bring in
partners,” Statoil’s head of international development and
production Peter Mellbye said by telephone today. “We have a
few licenses in the Gulf of Mexico in which we still hold 100
percent.”  Statoil, which operates 80 percent of Norway’s oil and gas
production, is expanding abroad to counter dwindling output from
ageing North Sea fields. It has said it wants to expand its
portfolio in shale gas and is seeking opportunities in China,
and also wants to buy more assets off Brazil. It is the fourth-
largest lease holder in the Gulf of Mexico, where it wants to
become operator of a field.  Statoil rose 2.2 kroner, or 1.8 percent, to 126.7 kroner as
of 12:17 p.m. in Oslo, capping this year’s decline at 12 percent
and valuing the company at 404 billion kroner ($67 billion).  Good Deal  “They got a better price than what most people would have
valued that oil sand project at,” Gudmund Halle Isfeldt, an
analyst at DnB NOR ASA with a “buy” recommendation said on the
phone today. “I don’t quite know why they’re selling these
assets when Norwegian oil production is in decline. But the deal
is a good one, so there’s nothing wrong in what they’ve done.”  Mellbye said while Statoil doesn’t provide its own reserve
estimates for the Kai Kos Dehseh project in Canada, “third
parties involved” in the sale process estimated the reserves at
2.5 billion to 3.7 billion barrels, valuing the transaction at
$2.28 per barrel to $1.54 per barrel.  “There’s still uncertainty surrounding this, which means
there’s upside potential to those figures,” Mellbye said.
Statoil has not decided on what it will do with the capital
raised from the sale, he added.  Demonstration Plant  Statoil in 2007 bought North American Oil Sands Corp. for
about $2 billion to tap an area estimated to hold the largest
oil reserves outside Saudi Arabia. It has since invested an
estimated $1.5 billion to construct project facilities and
related infrastructure at the Leismer project, according to
Arctic Securities ASA analyst Trond Omdal. The company plans to
start production at the 20,000 barrel-a-day Leismer
demonstration plant in the first quarter and reach full capacity
by end of 2011, Mellbye said.  Production of the project’s next phase, the so-called
Corner phase, may start in 2016, should the investment plan for
it be approved, Mellbye said. The company’s target of reaching
200,000 barrels a day wouldn’t happen until after 2020, he said.  Statoil’s Canada project has faced high costs,
technological, environmental and political challenges. The
company has had to defeat several shareholder motions to
withdraw from the project at its annual general meetings.
Mellbye said that while the company maintained an “open mind”
with regards to Canadian oil sands and saw “potential” in it,
it had no immediate plans to expand its portfolio in that area.  “We plan to develop the asset we now have and we have no
concrete plans for further expansion of that area of our
business,” Mellbye said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Marianne Stigset  in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  