-- Stock-Index Futures in U.S. Maintain Losses After Growth Exceeds Forecast
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n
-- 2010-11-23T13:33:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/stock-index-futures-in-u-s-maintain-losses-after-growth-exceeds-forecastu.html
U.S. stock-index futures maintained
losses after government data showed the economy expanded faster
than estimated in the third quarter.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index expiring next
month slid 1 percent to 1,186.7 at 8:33 a.m. in New York. Dow
Jones Industrial Average futures decreased 98 points, or 0.9
percent, to 11,067.  The U.S. economy grew at a 2.5 percent annual rate in the
third quarter, more than previously calculated, as companies
increased shipments abroad and Americans boosted their spending.
Economists in a Bloomberg survey forecast growth of 2.4 percent.
Personal consumption increased 2.8 percent, also more than
estimated.  Earlier  declines in futures came after North Korea lobbed
shells at a South Korean island and concern grew that Europe’s
debt crisis will spread. North Korea sent “several” artillery
shells into South Korea near the two nations’ western border,
South Korea’s Joint Chiefs of Staff said in a statement. South
Korea returned fire with 80 shells and scrambled fighter jets as
President Lee Myung Bak vowed to respond “sternly.”  Local television channel YTN showed smoke billowing from
Yeonpyeong island off South Korea’s northwest coast and said
residents took cover in bomb shelters. The Bank of Korea held an
unscheduled meeting late today in Seoul, and deputies from the
BOK and government agencies gather tomorrow at 7:30 a.m. to
discuss the market impact and potential countermeasures, the
finance ministry said in a statement.  Retreat From Two-Year High  The  S&P 500  has fallen 2.3 percent from a two-year high on
Nov. 5 amid concern Europe’s debt crisis is intensifying and
growing speculation that China will boost interest rates. The
decline trimmed the gauge’s rally this year to 7.4 percent.  Sales of existing homes in the U.S. probably dropped in
October, economists said before a report from the National
Association of Realtors, set for 10 a.m. in Washington.
Purchases fell to a 4.48 million annual rate, down 1.1 percent
from September, according to the median estimate.  Minutes from the Federal Reserve’s meeting this month, set
for release at 2 p.m. New York time, may help explain why policy
makers decided to supply the world’s largest economy with an
additional $600 billion in monetary stimulus. The report will
also contain policy makers’ updated economic forecasts.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Regan  at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  