-- Sumitomo Mitsui's Nikko Cordial Plans to Add 40 M&A Bankers Outside Japan
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2010-11-24T07:15:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/sumitomo-mitsui-s-nikko-plans-to-add-40-m-a-bankers-overseas.html
Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. 
will add 40 bankers outside Japan specializing in mergers and
acquisitions by March 2012 as it starts a cross-border advisory
business to compete with  Nomura Holdings Inc.   Nikko Cordial Securities Inc. , Sumitomo Mitsui’s investment
banking unit, plans to move about 12 employees to New York,
London, Hong Kong and Shanghai and hire the rest locally, said
 Masaya Oowada , who heads Nikko Cordial’s M&A advisory.  Oowada said he’ll try to unseat larger rival Nomura, the
leader in advising on mergers involving  Japanese companies  in
the past five years. Nikko Cordial will start M&A advisory in
New York next month and in Hong Kong and Shanghai in January,
according to a statement on its  website  today.  “It’s difficult to originate deals overseas, so we are
recruiting local people,” Oowada, 55, said in an interview in
Tokyo on Nov. 22. The executive added that he wants to make
Nikko Cordial the biggest adviser on Japanese M&A by deal count.  Nikko Cordial will also start bond brokerage and support
functions for Samurai bond issuance in New York next month,
according to the statement.  Nikko Cordial closed its Shanghai office in 2008 after it
was bought by  Citigroup Inc.  Sumitomo Mitsui, Japan’s second-
largest publicly traded bank, last year acquired Nikko Cordial
and Citigroup’s investment banking operations in Japan for 545
billion yen ($6.5 billion).  Domestic Plunge  Nomura is the top-ranked adviser on mergers and
acquisitions involving Japanese companies this year, working on
107 transactions worth a combined $41 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The total value of cross-border mergers involving Japanese
companies has climbed to $44.4 billion so far this year from
$42.8 billion for all of 2009, according to Bloomberg data.
Chinese and Hong Kong firms have made 45 acquisitions in Japan
this year, the most in a decade, the data show.  By contrast, the value of deals within Japan has plunged to
$59 billion so far in 2010, the lowest level in seven years.  Nikko Cordial employs 160 M&A bankers in Japan, Oowada said.
The firm hired 15 people since April, mainly covering technology,
telecommunications and media, he added.  “We will continue to inject resources overseas and into
our brokerage businesses, which is a growing field,” Sumitomo
Mitsui Chief Executive Officer  Teisuke Kitayama  said at a press
briefing on Nov. 12 in Tokyo.  Sumitomo Mitsui  aims to get 30 percent of profit from
overseas within the next three years, Kitayama reiterated when
the firm listed to the New York Stock Exchange on Nov. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Takahiko Hyuga  in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  