-- Swiss Use Lenin History Brochures to Attract Russians to Alpine Hospitals
-- B y   C a r e y   S a r g e n t
-- 2010-11-23T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/swiss-use-lenin-history-brochures-to-attract-russians-to-alpine-hospitals.html
Switzerland is encouraging wealthy
Russians who ski at resorts from St. Moritz to Zermatt to return
this season for medical check-ups or surgery.  Potential patients were given brochures last winter
recounting how  Vladimir Lenin , founder of the Soviet Union, and
 Alexander Solzhenitsyn , author of the Gulag Archipelago, found
asylum in the Alpine nation. Medical tourism revenue may climb
almost fivefold to 5 billion Swiss francs ($5.2 billion) by
2020, said Jan Sobhani, director of Zurich-based  Swixmed , which
arranges treatment for foreign patients. That’s equal to almost
quadruple last year’s exports of chocolate and cheese.  “For serious conditions we, and most of our friends,
travel abroad,” said Elena Petrova, whose two-year-old son
Andrej has flown five times from Moscow for kidney surgery and
check-ups at  Zurich’s University Children’s Hospital . “I
absolutely recommend it.”  While about 60 percent of medical tourism revenue is linked
directly to the health-care system, additional income is
generated through tourism. Patients often travel with at least
one relative and stay in luxury hotels such as Zurich’s five-
star  Baur au Lac , according to Sobhani. Switzerland plans to
broaden its campaign next year by persuading Arabian Gulf
visitors to emulate United Arab Emirates President  Khalifa bin Zayed al-Nahayan , who received undisclosed treatment in August.  “These are mostly very privileged people,” Sobhani said.
“Our clients start in what I would call the upper middle class
and go right up to people who are so rich you can’t even
imagine.”  ‘World’s Best’  Swiss Health, a joint venture between the country’s tourism
and foreign trade offices, distributed about 6,000 of  the nine-
page brochures  at Swiss skiing resorts including Davos,
Klosters, St. Moritz and Zermatt over the Russian New Year in
January. They highlight Switzerland’s doctors, the “best in the
world,” as well as the country’s reputation for quality and
historical links to Russia.  About 800 students study the Russian language in the
country, which also boasts the “longest pedestrian shopping
streets in the world,” the brochures say.  “Switzerland is still too little known as a provider of
medical services, even though the medicine is top class,” said
Gregor Frei, head of Swiss Health. “There’s enormous
potential.”  Unlike the cut-price medical treatment offered in places
such as India and Thailand, Switzerland focuses on state-of-the-
art procedures that aren’t always available elsewhere, said
Peter Kappert, president of  Swiss Leading Hospitals , a Baar-
based association of private clinics.  Keyhole Surgery  The Zurich hospital chosen by Petrova was the world’s first
to use ultrasound to kill brain tumor cells without cutting open
the skull. The family was charged 60,000 francs for the keyhole
kidney surgery that resulted in Andrej, 11 months old at the
time, being able to stand in his bed two days later, according
to Petrova.  While the Swiss doctors employed a technique involving
three 5 millimeter (0.2 inch) cuts, Russian surgeons would have
used a more invasive procedure that involves making a 4
centimeter incision. Andrej would have needed at least six
months to recover, Petrova said.  About 5 percent of the 12,000 patients admitted to hospital
last year by Genolier Swiss Medical Network came from abroad, a
“much higher” proportion than five years ago, said Managing
Director  Antoine Hubert . They often receive “tailor-made
solutions” and generate as much as 15 percent of the company’s
revenue, he said.  Hotel Services  “Foreign patients profit from our wellness offer and hotel
services and often come accompanied with family members, who
also stay at the clinic,” he said. “Foreign patients generate
more income and profit than a Swiss private patient.”  With Switzerland attracting billionaire patients, including
Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi , hospitals are
developing amenities such as the 250 square-meter (2,690 square-
foot) Presidential Suite at Genolier’s flagship clinic, which
overlooks Lake Geneva and Mont Blanc. The suite offers “all the
comfort and privacy” that these patients request, Hubert said.
He declined to disclose the rates.  Switzerland -- whose life expectancy of 81.7 years is only
bettered by Japan, Hong Kong and Iceland, according to United
Nations’  figures  -- has a long history of attracting foreign
patients, including  Thomas Mann ’s wife Katia, whose treatment at
the former Waldsanatorium in Davos was the basis of the 1924
book “The Magic Mountain.”  Expansion  Viktor Yushchenko , the former president of Ukraine, was
treated for dioxin poisoning at the University Hospital of
Geneva in 2004 and former Congolese dictator  Mobutu Sese Seko 
received prostate cancer treatment in the country in 1996.  Medi-Clinic Corp.’s  Hirslanden Private Hospital Group,
Switzerland’s largest private health-care provider, is seeking
annual growth of about 10 percent in foreign patients within the
next five years, said spokeswoman Alenka Ambroz. Hirslanden,
which runs 14 clinics from Lake Constance on the Austrian border
to Lake Geneva on the frontier with France, is collaborating
with hospitals in Jeddah and Dubai to lure patients.  While Switzerland ranked second after Austria for health
infrastructure in Lausanne-based IMD’s 2010  World
Competitiveness Yearbook , the treatment offered in the U.S. and
Germany is of a similar standard, said Keith Pollard, managing
director of Intuition Communication Ltd., a U.K.-based health-
care researcher. Tourism may give the Swiss an edge, he said.  “Patients are looking for the best surgeons, hospitals and
treatment,” he said. “Going somewhere they find attractive is
a bonus.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Carey Sargent  in Geneva at 
 csargent3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  