-- Swiss Stocks Retreat as Euro Debt, Korea Send Banks Tumbling
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2010-11-23T16:41:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/swiss-stocks-fall-amid-euro-debt-korea-concerns-banks-slide.html
Swiss stocks plunged, falling the
most in four months, as North Korea fired artillery shells into
South Korea and concern continued that Europe’s sovereign-debt
crisis will spread to Portugal and Spain.  Swiss banks decreased amid the global equities sell-off.
 Credit Suisse Group AG  and  UBS AG  both declined 2.6 percent.  The Swiss Market Index  of the biggest and most actively
traded companies dropped 2.1 percent to 6,393.79 at the 5:30
p.m. close of trading in Zurich. Even so, the gauge has rallied
7.6 percent since its low this year in July amid optimism that
the economic recovery will continue as companies reported
better-than-estimated earnings and central banks from Japan to
the U.S. said they will support growth. The broader Swiss
Performance Index declined 2 percent today.  “While the Dear Leader’s son  Kim Jong-un  seeks to burnish
his military credentials, an escalation of the shelling could
impact confidence in stock markets,” said Graeme Herd, head of
the international security program at the Geneva Centre for
Security Policy.  South Korea scrambled fighter jets and returned fire after
North Korea lobbed dozens of shells at one of its islands,
killing two soldiers.  “The dilemma for the markets is that it’s coming in the
week of Thanksgiving which is one of the more illiquid weeks of
the year,” said  Jim O’Neill , chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset
Management in an interview with Bloomberg Television.  Credit-Default Swaps  Separately, credit-default swap contracts on Irish
government bonds increased 25.5 basis points to 551, according
to data provider CMA in London. The cost of insuring corporate
debt for 15 Western Europe governments rose to a record today.  In China, the biggest banks are close to reaching annual
lending quotas and plan to stop expanding their loan books to
avoid exceeding the limits, according to four people with
knowledge of the matter.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd., Bank of China
Ltd. and  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd . are only extending new
loans as existing ones get repaid, the people said, speaking on
condition of anonymity.  Financials led declines in the SMI with Credit Suisse
dropping 2.6 percent to 39.11 Swiss francs. London-based Helvea
analyst  Peter Thorne  cut his dividend forecast for 2010 to 2013
to one franc from two francs per share, saying the bank is
determined to reach new capital adequacy targets imposed by
Swiss financial regulator Finma as soon as possible. Thorne
maintained a “neutral” rating and a price estimate of
48.90 francs on the stock.  UBS Declines  UBS slipped 2.6 percent to 15.68 francs.  Julius Baer Group
Ltd. , the 120-year-old private bank, declined 2.8 percent to
37.82 francs.  Actelion Ltd.  fell for a second day, losing 2.8 percent to
54 francs, as a takeover bid by Amgen Inc. failed to
materialize.  Sonova Holding AG  slumped 7 percent to 124.40 francs after
the hearing-aid maker said it’s voluntarily recalling the HiRes
90k cochlear implant after two instances in which the product
experienced a “rare malfunction.” Redburn Partners LLP analyst
 Ilan Chaitowitz  downgraded the stock to “sell” from
“neutral.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Giles Broom  in Zurich at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 