-- U.S. Council Begins Weighing Risk, Possible Oversight for Clearing Firms
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2010-11-23T20:20:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/u-s-oversight-council-begins-weighing-risk-of-clearing-firms.html
A council of U.S. regulators charged
with preventing another financial crisis is starting to consider
which clearinghouses and exchanges are systemically important
and require additional oversight.  The Financial Stability Oversight Council  voted at a
meeting in Washington today to request public comment on how it
should designate such firms for Federal Reserve supervision. The
council, which is led by Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner 
and includes Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , is also analyzing
which non-bank financial companies could pose a potential risk
to economic stability. It will propose a rule in January guiding
that process, Geithner said.  “Imposing higher, more consistent standards” on clearing
and settlement activities is “a key piece of building a more
resilient, more robust financial system,” Geithner said during
the meeting at the Treasury Department.  The Dodd-Frank financial overhaul law, which created the
council, aims to stem systemic risk by requiring that most
interest-rate, credit-default and other swaps be processed by
clearinghouses after being traded on exchanges or swap-execution
facilities. Clearinghouses are privately owned third parties
that guarantee transactions and keep track of collateral and
margin.  Revamping Oversight  Regulators are revamping oversight of the $583 trillion
over-the-counter derivatives market after largely unregulated
trading emerged as a central reason for the 2008 financial
crisis.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission may identify
“systemically important clearinghouses” by the middle of 2011,
CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler , a member of the oversight council,
said in a statement today.  Gensler told Congress in September that “some small
handful” of clearinghouses would likely be considered
systemically important by the council.  The group won’t begin designating specific companies until
after the first quarter of 2011, according to the council’s web
page.  Atlanta-based  Intercontinental Exchange Inc.’s  ICE Trust is
the world’s largest credit-default swap clearinghouse.
LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd., based in London, is the biggest
interest-rate swap clearinghouse. Chicago-based CME Group Inc.,
the world’s largest futures exchange, guarantees credit default
and interest-rate swaps with its clearinghouse.  “Certainly clearinghouses are systemically important,”
 Craig Pirrong , a University of Houston finance professor who
studies derivatives-trading, said in an interview yesterday.
“If a swaps or futures clearinghouse failed, it would be in
many respects equivalent to a large bank failing. It can be a
channel of contagion.”  Automatically Designated  U.S. bank holding companies with more than $50 billion in
assets each -- about 35 in all, including JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
Bank of America Corp., Citigroup Inc. and Goldman Sachs -- will
automatically be designated systemically important.  Michael Barr, the Treasury’s assistant secretary for
financial institutions, briefed the regulators on delays in home
foreclosures and said “inexcusable breakdowns in basic
controls” must be resolved.  A foreclosure “task force” with representatives from 11
federal agencies is working with state regulators and attorneys
general and conducting examinations of the largest mortgage
servicers, Barr said. Barr, 45, is leaving Treasury on Dec. 3 to
resume his academic career at the University of Michigan in Ann
Arbor.  State attorneys general are investigating mortgage lenders
and servicers after revelations that banks may have acted
illegally in using so-called robo-signers to validate documents
without reviewing the underlying facts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian Katz  in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  