-- U.S. Stocks Decline for Second Day on Korea Clash, European Debt Crisis
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2010-11-23T21:58:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/u-s-stock-futures-fall-after-yonhap-report-of-north-korea-artillery-fire.html
U.S. stocks dropped for a second day
after fighting broke out among North and South Korea and concern
grew that Europe’s debt crisis and China’s efforts to tame
inflation will slow the global economic rebound.  PulteGroup Inc.  and D.R. Horton Inc., the two largest U.S.
homebuilders, slumped at least 3.4 percent after a report showed
existing home sales trailed estimates.  Adobe Systems Inc. 
slipped 3.4 percent after Morgan Stanley said analysts’
estimates for the first half of fiscal 2011 may be too high.
 Brocade Communications Systems Inc.  tumbled 10 percent as the
biggest maker of switches for data-storage networks forecast
earnings that missed analysts’ predictions.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid 1.4 percent to
1,180.73 as of 4 p.m. in New York, and earlier fell 1.8 percent,
the most since Aug. 11. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  lost
142.21 points, or 1.3 percent to 11,036.37. Stocks also declined
as the fallout from a federal probe of Wall Street insider
trading continued into a second day.  “It’s a fear day,” said  Don Wordell , a fund manager for
Atlanta-based RidgeWorth Capital Management, which oversees
about $62 billion. “You have Europe debt worries, tension in
Korea, hedge fund investigations, a weak housing report. There’s
a tremendous amount of bad news to absorb. That’s not going to
encourage risk appetite.”  The  S&P 500  has fallen 3.7 percent since reaching a two-
year high on Nov. 5 amid concern Europe’s debt crisis is
intensifying and growing speculation that China will boost
interest rates. The decline trimmed the gauge’s rally this year
to 5.9 percent.  Volatility Soars  The benchmark for U.S. stock options jumped 12 percent to
20.63, the most since Aug 11. The VIX, as the Chicago Board
Options Exchange Volatility Index is known, measures the cost of
using options to protect against S&P 500 declines. The index is
down by more than half from this year’s peak of 45.79 in May.  Asian and European stocks slumped as North Korea sent
artillery shells into South Korea near the two nations’ western
border. South Korea returned fire and scrambled fighter jets as
President  Lee Myung Bak  vowed to respond “sternly.”  China’s biggest banks are close to reaching government-set
caps on lending and will stop expanding their loan books as part
of a plan to cool inflation and surging property prices,
according to four people with knowledge of the matter.  Stocks also fell on concern about Europe’s debt woes.
Ireland risks a “major bank run” unless European officials act
quickly to calm turmoil after the country requested a financial
rescue, Pacific Investment Management Co. Co-Chief Investment
Officer  Mohamed A. El-Erian  said today in a radio interview on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .  ‘Bleeding Deposits’  “The numbers so far have shown that the Irish banking
system has been bleeding deposits,” El-Erian said. “It will
seriously undermine the prosperity of this country for a
generation.”  U.S. equities held declines this morning after the National
Association of Realtors’s report showed  purchases  of previously
owned homes fell 2.2 percent to a 4.43 million annual rate last
month from 4.53 million in September. Economists projected sales
would decline to a 4.48 million pace, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg News  survey . The median price slipped
0.9 percent from a year earlier.  The  S&P 500 Supercomposite Homebuilding Index  slumped 1.9
percent as 11 of its 12 members dropped. PulteGroup slipped 3.5
percent to $6.27, while D.R. Horton lost 3.4 percent to $10.06.  Hedge Fund Probe  The U.S. crackdown on insider trading extended into a
second day as former traders of  Steven A. Cohen ’s SAC Capital
Advisors LP were implicated in the investigation.  Federal Bureau of Investigation agents yesterday searched
the offices of Level Global Investors LP and Diamondback Capital
Management LLC. Wellington Management Co., the Boston-based
money manager that oversees $598 billion, also got a request for
documents from U.S. investigators, according to a person
familiar with the firm.  Janus Capital Group Inc.  said today that
it got a request for general information and intends to
cooperate with the inquiry.  Equities maintained losses after minutes from the Federal
Reserve’s latest meeting showed policy makers disagreed over
expanding record monetary stimulus through asset purchases, a
tactic known as quantitative easing. Fed officials raised their
unemployment projections for the next two years while lowering
their 2011 growth outlooks.  “If QE is necessary or not, that’s something we don’t
know,” said  Philip Dow , director of equity strategy at
Minneapolis-based RBC Wealth Management, which oversees $164
billion. “It was not that long ago that we were worried about a
double dip” recession.  Adobe, Brocade  Adobe  dropped 3.4 percent to $28.19. The maker of graphic
software faces a slowing pace of corporate upgrades since the
introduction of its new Creative Suite 5 software, Morgan
Stanley analyst  Adam Holt  wrote in a note.  Brocade Communications  tumbled 10 percent to $5.13 after
the company said it forecasts fiscal first-quarter earnings of 9
cents to 10 cents a share, falling short of the 14-cent average
analyst estimate.  Airgas Inc . fell the most in the S&P 500, sliding 5.9
percent to $62. The company seeking to fend off a $5.5 billion
takeover by  Air Products & Chemicals Inc.  persuaded a Delaware
appeals court to invalidate a ruling moving up the date for its
annual meeting.  Energy, Materials  Measures of energy and raw-materials producers declined the
 most  among 10 groups in the S&P 500, following a drop in
commodities prices on concern about slower global demand.  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. , the largest publicly
traded copper producer, slid 3.2 percent to $98.70. Exxon Mobil
Corp., the biggest energy company, lost 1.7 percent to $68.98.  A separate Commerce Department report today showed the U.S.
economy grew at a 2.5 percent annual rate in the third quarter,
faster than previously calculated. Economists in a Bloomberg
survey forecast growth of 2.4 percent.  The  S&P 500  tends to rise in the final part of the year,
rallying 72 percent of the time, according to data dated back to
1945 compiled by Birinyi Associates Inc. The benchmark index has
gained an average 1.9 percent in the period between Thanksgiving
to New Year’s Eve, while it climbs 3.4 percent on average when
evaluating only the positive periods, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 