-- Uganda Tea Production Climbs 13% in 10 Months Through October, Agency Says
-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 2010-11-23T12:03:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/uganda-tea-production-climbs-13-in-10-months-through-october-agency-says.html
Tea production in  Uganda , Africa’s
third-biggest grower of the leaf, climbed 13 percent in the
first 10 months of this year because of favorable weather and
better farm management, the Uganda Tea Association said.  Output from January through October climbed to more than 46
million kilograms (101.4 million pounds), from 40.8 million
kilograms a year earlier, the agency said in a statement today
in Kampala, the capital.  “The sector is performing well and the actual figures are
higher than what we have,” Betty Mpologoma, an official at the
agency, said an interview today. “Some producers haven’t filed
their reports since as early as June, while others are yet to
give us for October.”  Uganda ranks behind neighboring  Kenya  and  Malawi  in terms
of output, according to the United Nations Food and Agricultural
Organization’s  website . Production in the East African country
may grow to 54 million kilograms this year from 51 million
kilograms in 2009 because of increased planting and better farm
management, George William Ssekitoleko, the association’s
executive secretary, said in April.  The agency, which groups producers and exporters of the
leaf, raised this year’s forecast by 15 percent from a January
projection of 47 million kilograms because of better weather.  Provisional exports from January through October climbed
5.2 percent to 40.9 million kilograms, the agency said.  Uganda ships most of its tea through a weekly auction at
Mombasa in Kenya. The country’s export earnings from the leaf
climbed 21 percent to $92 million last year, according to the
agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fred Ojambo  in Kampala via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 