-- Hungary Plans to Reduce Budget Spending by $3.9 Billion, Matolcsy Says
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2010-11-23T10:34:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/hungary-plans-to-reduce-budget-spending-by-3-9-billion-matolcsy-says.html
Hungary, the most indebted eastern
European Union country, is planning a package of as much as 800
billion forint ($3.9 billion) in spending cuts to put the  budget 
on a sustainable footing, Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  said.  The government will announce the “structural reform” plan
in February, Matolcsy said at a conference in Budapest today. He
didn’t say whether the forecast savings were on an annual basis
and didn’t give details of the planned cuts.  Hungary levied special taxes on selected industries and
funneled employees’ private-pension fund contributions to the
budget to fund personal and corporate income-tax cuts. The
cabinet seeks to reduce the  budget deficit  below the European
Union limit of 3 percent of gross domestic product next year
from a targeted 3.8 percent in 2010.  “At the end of February next year, the Hungarian
government will present a document, a Hungarian growth and
stability plan, specifying about 100 structural reforms that
will achieve savings on the spending side of between 600 billion
and 800 billion forint,” Matolcsy said.  The forint strengthened to 274.66 per euro by 10:53 a.m. in
Budapest from 275.564. The yield on the benchmark five-year
government bond rose to 7.22 percent from 7.12 percent,
according to Bloomberg data.  Debt, Bailout  Hungary’s government debt will rise to 78.9 percent of
gross domestic product this year from 78.3 percent at the end of
2009, the highest among the EU’s former communist members,
according to the European Commission. The country in 2008 needed
a bailout led by the International Monetary Fund to avoid
default and has agreed to cut its budget deficit to qualify.  Hungary will have to make up for about 500 billion forint
in missing budget revenue and will breach the EU deficit limit
from 2012 unless the government cuts spending,  Gyorgy Kopits ,
chairman of the Fiscal Council, an independent state budget
watchdog, said in a  Vilaggazdasag  interview published yesterday.  Mandatory private-pension funds will “cease to exist’” in
Hungary, leaving the state pension system and voluntary funds to
replace the three-pillar pension system, Matolcsy said.  The government is redirecting all mandatory private-pension
fund contributions to the state budget through the end of next
year and is urging citizens to switch their portfolios to the
state pension system. The private funds hold 3 trillion forint
of combined assets, according to the  Stabilitas
Penztarszovetseg , an industry group.  “The mandatory private-pension fund system, I think it’s
clear to everyone, will cease to exist,” Matolcsy said. The
Cabinet will publish new conditions for the private pension
funds in “coming weeks,” he said.  Hungary plans to use 530 billion forint of fund assets next
year to pay for current pensions and 250 billion forint for the
same purpose in 2012, Matolcsy said. Pension transfers above
those amounts will be used to reduce government debt, he said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Zoltan Simon at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  