-- Muni-Bond Issuers May Face Default `Crunch' as Stimulus Ebbs, Lehmann Says
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2010-11-23T15:24:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/muni-bond-issuers-may-face-default-crunch-as-stimulus-ebbs-lehmann-says.html
Municipal-bond issuers, whose
default rate slowed this year, may face more failures in 2011 as
federal economic-stimulus aid declines and budget pressures
jeopardize debt payments, said  Richard Lehmann , publisher of
Distressed Debt Securities Newsletter.  Many state and municipal governments still haven’t
addressed underlying budget stresses and some borrowed to patch
deficits, meaning issuers may decide not to make promised debt-
service payments, said Lehmann, 68, who follows defaults.  “Next year may well be the crunch year,” Lehmann said
Nov. 19 by telephone from Miami Lakes, Florida. “You may see a
new wave of defaults.”  This year through October, defaulted securities, including
those stemming from missed payments and the “technical”
variety, fell to $2.48 billion, compared with $7.28 billion in
2009 and a record $8.15 billion in 2008, according to Lehmann’s
data. Technical defaults occur when bond terms are violated,
such as by servicing debt with reserve funds.  Missed payments by Jefferson County, Alabama, on some of
its $3.8 billion of sewer securities and Main Street Natural Gas
Inc. on $709 million of debt for pre-paid supplies drove the
default rate higher in 2008, Lehmann’s data show.  Jefferson
County  is home to Birmingham, Alabama’s biggest city. Municipal
Gas Authority of Georgia, based in Kennesaw, about 27 miles (43
kilometers) northwest of Atlanta, set up Main Street as a
financing vehicle.  Safest Securities  The average default rate for investment-grade municipal
debt evaluated by Moody’s Investors Service from 1970 through
2009 was 0.03 percent, compared with 0.97 percent for corporate
issues, the New York-based company said in February. General-
obligation bonds and debt for essential services such as water
and sewers are safer than unrated bonds and not-for-profit
hospitals, it said.  Last year, the number of defaults rose, while their dollar
value declined as more involved smaller issues, such as
community development district bonds sold for housing
infrastructure projects in Florida, according to Lehmann’s data.  The longest recession since the Great Depression cut U.S.
cities’ general-fund revenue for the fiscal year through June by
the most since at least 1986, according to the  National League
of Cities . U.S. state and local governments balanced their
budgets in recent years partly with funds from federal economic-
stimulus programs, which Congress passed in early 2009, and by
cutting spending, raising taxes and borrowing. The temporary
$814 billion stimulus spending will wind down next year.  Financial Stress  Now, states and municipalities are coping with financial
stress at “a level that has not been seen for decades,” said
Fitch Ratings in a Nov. 16 report. The pressures may lead
defaults to “increase from exceedingly low historical levels,”
Fitch said.  Besides the end of stimulus payments, state and local
governments face swelling pension obligations, political
pressure to hold down taxes and rising costs for everything from
health care to education, Lehmann said.  “Their basic problems haven’t been solved,” he said.
“They haven’t addressed the underlying issues.”  Spending cuts during a recession help protect debt service,
said Standard & Poor’s in a Nov. 8 report. Debt service
“generally holds a priority status relative to other
obligations,” S&P said. Revenue declines “that we think would
likely cause default in many instances would need to be double
what they were during the Great Depression,” S&P said.  Contemplating Bankruptcy  Cities including Pennsylvania’s capital of Harrisburg and
Detroit have contemplated seeking bankruptcy protection as a way
to cope with pending debt payments, sagging tax revenue and
rising costs. Vallejo, California, a city of about 120,000 on
the north shore of San Francisco Bay, sought U.S. Bankruptcy
Court protection from creditors in 2008, the state’s biggest
municipal bankruptcy since Orange County in 1994.  “There is clearly going to be credit deterioration,”
 Howard Cure , director of municipal research for Evercore Wealth
Management LLC in New York, said in a Nov. 19 Bloomberg
Television interview. “There aren’t going to be massive
defaults.”  Most monetary defaults have been tied to specific public-
works such as real-estate transactions and economic-development
projects, said  J.R. Rieger , vice president of fixed-income
indexes for S&P in New York, who follows monetary defaults on
his S&P’s/Investortools Municipal Bond Index.  This year, 96 issues totaling $2.56 billion have missed a
debt-service payment, compared with 153 worth $3.2 billion in
2009, Rieger said in an interview. More than a third of the
defaults this year were for bonds issued to support property-
backed transactions, while another third were for conduit
securities for economic-development projects, health-care
facilities and multifamily housing developments, Rieger said.  “Munis are still showing evidence of stress,” Rieger
said, even as defaults by state and local governments “are very
few and rare.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Darrell Preston  in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 