-- UnitedHealth Says Diabetes Will Cost $3.4 Trillion Over Decade
-- B y   P a t   W e c h s l e r
-- 2010-11-23T20:15:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/unitedhealth-says-diabetes-will-cost-3-4-trillion-over-the-next-decade.html
Diabetes or prediabetic conditions
will strike half of all adult Americans by the end of the decade
unless people lose weight, said  UnitedHealth Group Inc. , the
largest U.S. health insurer by sales.  The disease will cost the nation almost $3.4 trillion in
the 10 years through 2020, with more than 60 percent paid for by
the U.S. government, according to a study released today by the
Minnetonka, Minnesota-based insurer. The number of Americans
with high blood sugar will rise 44 percent to 135 million in
2020, from 93.8 million in 2010, researchers said.  Diabetes is growing as the U.S. population skews older and
fatter, said  Simon Stevens , executive vice president of the
company’s Center for Health Reform & Modernization. About 28
million adult Americans, or 12 percent, are currently diabetic
while 66 million others, or 28 percent, are prediabetic,
according to the study. Prediabetics can lower the odds of
getting diabetes by losing weight, he said.  “There is nothing inevitable” about the rise in diabetes,
Stevens said in a telephone interview. “Even quite modest
changes, like losing five percent of body weight, have the
potential of producing decreases. If we don’t take obesity
seriously, we risk our children living shorter lives than we
parents have lived.”  UnitedHealth is developing programs to reduce spending for
chronic diseases. Showing ability to combat costs benefits
UnitedHealth by driving enrollment into its health plans,
generating business for its disease management and prevention
services and reinforcing its leadership on the topic, said  Ana Gupte , an analyst at New York-based Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  Showing Value  “This is a way of ensuring its role as a leader, not just
an insurance company that sells health benefits,” Gupte said in
a telephone interview. “By demonstrating tangibly that they can
do something to moderate the cost trend, they show their value
to Congress and the White House.”  The U.S. government has issued similar predictions about
the growth in the disease. The Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention, based Atlanta, issued a  study  on Oct. 22 saying
new cases will more than double by 2050, afflicting at least 1
in 5 adults. That amounts to as many as 75 million by mid-
century. The CDC’s estimate of the number of adults with
diabetes now is at least 32 million, according to the study.  “I can’t comment on the differences in the numbers, but
both show a growing problem,” said  Ann Albright , director of
the CDC’s Division of Diabetes Translation. “The message for
everyone is that we need to take this issue seriously as a
country.”  Autoimmune Disease  Diabetes  limits people’s ability to make or use insulin,
which helps convert blood sugar into energy. About 90 percent to
95 percent of the cases are Type 2, which is caused by a
combination of genetic and lifestyle elements, such as being
overweight, Albright said today in a telephone interview. The
less-common Type 1 diabetes is an autoimmune disease, seen in
children, that destroys the body’s natural insulin, she said.  People with  diabetes  often develop other diseases such as
heart attack, stroke, blindness and kidney disease, Albright
said.  “Diabetes is like dropping a rock in a pond and watching
the ripples flow out from it,” Albright said. “It’s the No. 1
cause of blindness, the No. 1 cause of kidney disease and a huge
contributor to heart attack and stroke.”  People can help prevent diabetes through changes in
lifestyle, such as increasing physical activity and losing
weight, she said.  ‘Most Pressing’  “Solving the obesity epidemic that has helped produce this
increase is one of our most pressing public-health priorities,”
U.S. Health and Human Services Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius , said
today in an e-mail. First lady  Michelle Obama  started a campaign
aimed at reducing childhood obesity as a way to make Americans
healthier.  Former vice presidential candidate  Sarah Palin  criticized
this government intervention into daily life, saying it’s up to
parents to tell children what they should and should not eat,
Bloomberg Businessweek reported Nov. 18. On a recent visit to a
Pennsylvania school, Palin brought cookies for the children.  Palin’s political action committee didn’t immediately
respond today to a telephone call and e-mail seeking comment.  This is an “epidemic that is larger than breast cancer and
HIV together,” said Deneen Vojta, a physician and senior vice
president at the UnitedHealth center. “Yet it doesn’t feel like
an epidemic in this country because of the real under-awareness
of the situation.”  Lifestyle Changes  The UnitedHealth study estimates that, in 2020, 39 million
adults, or 15 percent, will suffer from diabetes, and an
additional 96 million, or 37 percent, will be prediabetic.  Under the health-care overhaul signed in March by President
 Barack Obama , the CDC was authorized to start the National
Diabetes Prevention Program to help Americans deter the disease
through lifestyle changes, Albright said.  The agency has developed a program with UnitedHealth and
the  National Council of YMCAs of the USA , a nonprofit
organization based in Chicago, to help overweight, prediabetic
people exercise more, eat better and be more aware of body
metrics related to diabetes.  The program has two primary goals for participants: to
increase the amount of daily exercise to 150 minutes and reduce
body weight by at least five percent. The program followed a
design tested by the National Institutes of Health, based in
Bethesda, Maryland.  Trade Group  Six of the seven adults in the first graduating class
managed to lose 7 pounds each, on average, and are still engaged
in the program, said  Tyler Mason , a UnitedHealth spokesman, in
an e-mail.  UnitedHealth didn’t directly take any public position for
or against the U.S. health-care overhaul. America’s Health
Insurance Plans, the insurance industry’s main trade
organization, openly opposed sections of the legislation.
UnitedHealth is a member of the Washington-based group.  The law expanded access to coverage for the currently
uninsured, while failing to address medical costs, Stevens said
in an interview Oct. 1.  That lapse offers opportunities for the company to expand
into consulting, data analysis and other areas to help employers
and hospitals control costs, Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hemsley  told analysts during a conference call on July 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pat Wechsler  in New York at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 