-- Vaccine Agency May Sell More Kangaroo Bonds After First Issue This Week
-- B y   L i s a   P h a m   a n d   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 2010-11-23T02:49:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/vaccine-agency-may-sell-more-kangaroo-bonds-after-first-issue-this-week.html
International Finance Facility for
Immunisation, a supranational health-care agency, may consider
issuing more kangaroo bonds after it completes its first sale of
the notes to raise money for immunization programs.  The funds are used by GAVI Alliance, a group set up by
Microsoft Corp. founder  Bill Gates  to vaccinate against diseases
such as polio, hepatitis B and yellow fever. The agency, known
as IFFIm, is marketing its first kangaroo bonds.  “IFFIm seeks to raise funds in medium- to longer-term
maturities,”  Heike Reichelt , head of investor relations at the
Washington-based World Bank -- which manages IFFIm’s finances --
said in an e-mailed response to questions today. IFFIm would
“certainly consider further transactions in this market”
depending on its funding needs and market conditions.  IFFIm, based in London, hired Commonwealth Bank of
Australia and RBC Capital Markets to help it sell a benchmark
sized offering of five-year kangaroo bonds, according to an e-
mailed statement from Commonwealth Bank yesterday. The notes may
be priced to yield 25 basis points more than the swap rate,
according to a preliminary sales document seen by Bloomberg
News.  IFFIm has raised $2.7 billion as of June 2010 through bond
issues, according to a presentation to Australian investors last
month. The  agency  has sold notes in the U.K. and Japan including
its first-ever $1 billion issue in 2006, its website shows.  IFFIm is rated Aaa by Moody’s Investors Service and the
equivalent top grades by Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings.
Kangaroo bonds are Australian-dollar notes sold by foreign
issuers in Australia. Benchmark typically means at least A$500
million. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lisa Pham  in Sydney at 
 lpham14@bloomberg.net ;
 Sarah McDonald  in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net . 