-- Vince Young's Season Is Over With Tennessee Titans After Injury, Tantrum
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-11-23T05:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/vince-young-s-season-is-over-with-tennessee-titans-after-injury-blowup.html
Vince Young  won’t be back as the
Tennessee Titans’ quarterback, at least this season.  Young will be placed on season-ending injured reserve
because of a torn flexor tendon in his right throwing hand that
requires surgery. He was hurt during the third quarter of the
Titans’ 19-16 overtime loss to Washington two days ago.  Titans coach  Jeff Fisher  said Young would have lost his job
as starting quarterback even if team doctors hadn’t recommended
surgery. Young, 27, threw his shoulder pads and jersey into the
stands while leaving the field after the National Football
League game two days ago in Nashville and had a verbal
confrontation with Fisher in the locker room, the Tennessean
newspaper said.  “My focus is no longer on Vince Young, my focus is on
moving forward with this team,” Fisher said yesterday during a
news conference.  The Titans have a 5-5 record and are in third place in the
American Football Conference’s four-team South Division.  Rookie  Rusty Smith  replaced Young against the Redskins and
will start this week’s game against the Houston Texans.  Chris Simms  will be signed as a backup quarterback, Fisher said, since
the Titans are also without  Kerry Collins  because of a strained
left calf muscle.  Titans owner  Bud Adams  told the Tennessean that Fisher and
Young are “ going to have to work together .” Young’s contract
runs through next season, when he’s set to make $8.5 million.  “He’s not going to play any more games for us this year
because of the injury,” Fisher said of Young. “We can deal
with all that when the season is over.”  Young has a 30-17 record as the Titans’ starting
quarterback since being selected with the third overall pick in
the 2006 NFL draft.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  