-- Wellington, Janus, SAC Said to Get Document Requests in U.S. Trading Probe
-- B y   G i l l i a n   W e e ,   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2010-11-23T20:39:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/wellington-said-to-get-document-request-from-u-s-in-insider-trading-probe.html
SAC Capital Advisors LP and
Wellington Management Co. received requests for documents from
federal investigators looking into insider trading, according to
two people familiar with the matter. Janus Capital Group Inc.
also was asked for information.  Wellington said on an internal conference call yesterday
that it’s conducting a review of records, and that it didn’t
engage in illegal trading, according to one of the people, who
asked not to be named because the Boston-based firm is private.
Janus, based in Denver, said today it received a request for
“general information and intends to cooperate fully with that
inquiry.”  Federal officials, led by U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara  in
Manhattan, are investigating whether money managers may have
profited from insider trading, or buying and selling based on
material, nonpublic information. The offices of hedge funds
Level Global Investors LP and Diamondback Capital Management
LLC, run by former traders of  Steven A. Cohen ’s SAC, were
searched yesterday by agents from the Federal Bureau of
Investigation.  “This is going to go beyond hedge funds,” said  Stewart Massey , chief investment officer at Massey, Quick & Co. in
Morristown, New Jersey, which manages $2 billion on behalf of
endowments, foundations and wealthy families. “This is going to
involve traditional money managers also.”  $12 Billion in Assets  No allegation of wrongdoing has been made against Stamford,
Connecticut-based SAC, which manages $12 billion, or Janus and
Wellington.  Jonathan Gasthalter , a spokesman for SAC, declined to
comment.  In a call today, Wellington officials disclosed the
document request, without specifying what kind of information
investigators are seeking, the person said.  Sara Lou Sherman , a
spokeswoman for Wellington, declined to comment.  Janus “maintains rigorous compliance procedures” and
“has confidence in the integrity of its processes and its
people,”  Shelley Peterson , a spokeswoman for the firm, said in
the e-mailed statement.  Janus, Wellington and mutual-fund company MFS Investment
Management in Boston were clients of Broadband Research LLC, a
Portland-based research firm that was visited by FBI agents last
month, the Wall Street Journal reported on Nov. 20.  John Reilly , a spokesman for MFS, declined to comment.  Wellington’s Roots  Wellington, a closely held company that traces its roots to
an investment firm formed in 1928, is led by Chief Executive
Officer  Perry Traquina . The firm manages about $598 billion in
assets in mutual funds and separate accounts for institutional
investors, such as endowments and pension funds, and mutual
funds for investment firms including Vanguard Group Inc.  The $52 billion Vanguard Wellington Fund gained an annual
average of 5 percent in the past five years, beating 89 percent
of rival funds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Wellington serves as an adviser to 19 Vanguard funds with
about $175 billion in assets,  Linda Wolohan , a spokeswoman for
Valley Forge, Pennsylvania-based Vanguard, said in an e-mailed
statement.  “Vanguard has a longstanding relationship with Wellington
and remains fully confident in and committed to that
relationship and the investment-advisory services provided by
the firm on behalf of our client,” Wolohan said.  Lawyer’s Testimony  SAC hadn’t been subpoenaed as of Nov. 4 in relation to the
government’s probe of insider trading at the Galleon Group hedge
fund, the firm’s lawyer,  Martin Klotz , said that day. Klotz had
been summoned as a government witness in the criminal trial of
Milton Balkany, a Brooklyn, New York, rabbi who was convicted
six days later of trying to extort $4 million from SAC.  Asked by a prosecutor whether “SAC or Mr. Cohen himself was
under investigation in the Galleon case,” Klotz said no. “We
did not receive subpoenas,” Klotz testified in Manhattan
federal court. “We did not receive inquiries from anybody in
the government in connection with that investigation.”  Jessie Erwin, a spokeswoman for Bharara’s office, and
 Richard Kolko , a spokesman for the FBI, declined to comment.  Yesterday’s raids follow testimony by a former UBS AG
investment banker at a criminal trial in September that he
“provided confidential information” to a friend who worked as
an analyst at SAC.  Fourteen people have pleaded guilty in the Galleon Group
insider trading case brought by Bharara last year as he
initiated the crackdown, and at least nine others have been
charged.  Raj Rajaratnam , the founder of Galleon, has denied
wrongdoing and is scheduled to go on trial next year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gillian Wee  in New York at 
 gwee3@bloomberg.net ;
 Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam  in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net ;
 David Glovin  in New York federal court at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  