-- Whitefield Cuts Fee in Bid to Lure Assets as Hedge Fund Gains 33% in 2010
-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 2010-11-23T22:50:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/whitefield-cuts-fee-in-bid-to-lure-assets-as-hedge-fund-gains-33-in-2010.html
Whitefield Capital Management Pte,
whose Asian equities fund gained 33 percent this year, said it
won’t charge investors any fee on investment gains until it
doubles the size of its assets.  The Singapore-based firm will start charging a performance
fee again with a new share class once it increases the size of
its  Whitefield Asian Opportunities Fund  to between $50 million
and $100 million, from about $30 million currently, said
Managing Director  Benjamin Ng . Including separate accounts for
institutions, Whitefield Capital manages about $100 million, he
said in an interview.  Hedge fund managers have trimmed fees as they seek to
recover assets lost since the financial crisis. Balyasny Asset
Management LP, a Chicago-based investment firm overseeing $2
billion, is offering reduced fees on its biggest hedge fund,
while Ken Griffin’s Citadel LLC may cut fees for its biggest
funds, people with knowledge of their plans said in September.  “I would not base my fund selection process on the levels
of fees charged,” said  Stephane Pizzo , founder of Lotus Peak
Capital, a Singapore-based hedge-fund investing firm. “Talent
is rare and outstanding managers are able to charge usual fees
in my experience.”  It would be easier to attract investors to the fund, named
the best fund in Asia outside Japan during the AsiaHedge Awards
in Hong Kong last month, once its size grows to at least $100
million, Ng said. Whitefield Capital, set up 10 years ago,
managed as much as $300 million in 2007, he said.  ‘Cut a Deal’  “Right now, the head wind for us is the size of the assets
under management,” Ng said. “We are trying all means and ways
to grow it; we are even prepared to cut a deal with investors
who can help us bridge this tougher part of the journey.”  Almost all of the $23 billion put into hedge funds during
the first half of the year went to those with more than $5
billion, Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc. said on Sept. 15.
Such funds account for 60 percent of the industry’s $1.6
trillion of assets.  Whitefield Capital stopped charging a fee equal to 15
percent of investment profits last year after the global
financial crisis led to client withdrawals, Ng said. It
continues to charge an annual fee equal to 1.5 percent of client
assets.  The firm also manages money for an Asian sovereign wealth
fund, Ng said, declining to identify the client. Government of
Singapore Investment Corp.’s Chief Investment Officer  Ng Kok Song , then the sovereign fund’s managing director of public
markets, said in a speech in 2002 that Whitefield Capital was
one of the managers that it had provided “much-needed funds to
compile their track records,” according to GIC’s  website .  Thomson Medical  The Whitefield Asian Opportunities Fund, which invests in
Asia outside of Japan, gained about 33 percent this year through
October, compared with a 76 percent gain in 2009 and an almost
50 percent decline in 2008, according to the manager. The
 Eurekahedge  Long-Only Absolute Return Fund Index rose about 11
percent this year, according to the Singapore-based industry
data provider.  An investment in  Thomson Medical Centre Ltd. , a Singapore-
based hospital operator, made the fund “a lot of money,” Ng
said. The stock has risen 62 percent to a record after
billionaire  investor  Peter Lim made a takeover offer for the
firm on Oct. 29. Excluding the gains since the takeover was made,
the shares rose about six times since Whitefield Capital started
investing in the company in January 2005, Ng said.  The fund, which focuses on investing in companies at
“bargain prices,” also looks for “special situation”
investments that seek to profit from events such as mergers and
asset sales, Ng said. The fund had a compound annual growth rate
of 15.5 percent from inception in April 2001 to October this
year, compared with a 10.6 percent gain in the MSCI Far East ex-
Japan Free Index, according to the manager.  Whitefield Capital owns shares in  Korea Exchange Bank . Hana
Financial Group Inc. has offered as much as 4.8 trillion won
($4.1 billion) for Lone Star Funds’ stake in Korea Exchange Bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Netty Ismail  in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  