-- Prince William's Wedding to Kate Is Set for April 29 at Westminster Abbey
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2010-11-23T15:26:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/william-to-marry-kate-middleton-at-westminster-abbey-april-29.html
Prince William , second in line to
the throne, and  Kate Middleton  will marry at Westminster Abbey
in London on April 29 and the day will be marked by a public
holiday.  The Royal Family will pay for the wedding, William’s
father,  Prince Charles , said in an e-mailed statement issued by
his office in London today. The government will fund “any wider
security or transport related costs,” Prime Minister  David Cameron  said.  “The wedding of Kate and William will be a happy and
momentous occasion,” Cameron said in a statement released by
his office. “We want to mark the day as one of national
celebration. A public holiday will ensure the most people
possible will have a chance to celebrate on the day.”  The engagement was announced on Nov. 16, ending years of
speculation about whether William would marry his long-term
girlfriend. William, the grandson of  Queen Elizabeth II  and son
of the late Diana, Princess of Wales, has been dating Middleton
since 2003. The couple, both 28, met while they were both
studying at St. Andrews University in Scotland.  As the wedding day falls on the Friday immediately after
the Easter weekend and before May Day, the U.K. will have two
four-day weekends in succession.  Scottish Decision  In Scotland, the decision whether to observe a holiday to
mark the wedding is a matter for the devolved government, led by
the pro-independence Scottish National Party. The marriage will
come six days before Scottish parliamentary elections.  The Scottish Cabinet meets today and will decide on the
issue “as quickly as possible,” First Minister  Alex Salmond 
said in a statement.  The current queen and William’s great-grandmother, another
Elizabeth, the wife of George VI, were married at  Westminster
Abbey . It was also where Diana’s funeral was held in 1997.
Charles and Diana broke with tradition when they chose to marry
at  St. Paul’s Cathedral  in the City of London in 1981.  The abbey, formally known as the Collegiate Church of St.
Peter, has been the coronation church since 1066. The church
stands beside the Houses of Parliament and is the burial place
of 17 monarchs.  In a pooled television interview after the engagement was
announced, William said he had waited before proposing to
Middleton, the daughter of self-made millionaires, “to give her
a chance to back out if she wanted to.”  Economic Boost  The wedding may add 620 million pounds ($1 billion) to the
U.K. economy, according to  Verdict Research , a retail analysis
unit of Datamonitor Plc.  Companies are already vying to profit from the
announcement. Marvelpress Ltd. in Sheffield received an order
for “thousands and thousands” of commemorative engagement mugs
for Wal-Mart Stores Inc.’s Asda supermarket chain.  Tesco Plc ,
Britain’s largest retailer, will sell a replica of the designer
dress worn by Middleton when the engagement was announced.  Middleton is now in line to become the first commoner to be
queen in modern times. Royal consorts have traditionally come
from the ranks of Britain’s aristocracy or other European royal
houses.  “It’s quite a daunting prospect but hopefully I’ll take it
in my stride,” she said as the couple posed for photographs
after the engagement was made public.  William proposed to Middleton with  Princess Diana ’s
engagement ring, a sapphire surrounded by diamonds, while the
couple were on holiday in Kenya last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  