-- Yahoo Says Still Working With Alibaba on Technologies for Ads, E-Mailing
-- B y   S u s a n   L i   a n d   M a r k   L e e
-- 2010-11-23T05:12:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/yahoo-s-tsou-says-still-collaborating-with-alibaba-on-ads-mail.html
Yahoo! Inc.  is still working with
 Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.  on technologies for services such as
e-mail and online advertising, after the Chinese company said it
no longer needs to partner with its U.S. investor.  “We still have a lot of technology collaboration,”  Rose Tsou , managing director of Yahoo’s Asia Pacific division, said
in an interview in Hong Kong today. “We help them with the
advertising serving platform for display advertising.”  Alibaba, China’s biggest e-commerce company, said in
September Yahoo’s decision to stop running its own search-engine
technology has removed the biggest reason for a partnership
between the two. Earlier this year, Yahoo rejected an offer from
Alibaba to buy back some of the 39 percent stake the Sunnyvale,
California-based company holds in the Chinese firm.  “We are still very happy about our partnership with
Alibaba in China, and we see China as a tremendous opportunity
for Yahoo,” Tsou said in an interview with  Susan Li  on
Bloomberg Television’s “First Up.”  Yahoo, which plans to integrate its search-engine division
with that of Microsoft Corp., has lost its own search
technology, and the biggest reason for a partnership between
Alibaba and Yahoo doesn’t exist,  David Wei , head of the Chinese
company’s  Alibaba.com Ltd.  unit, said Sept. 10. Yahoo became
just a “financial investor” at Alibaba, Wei said.  “Nothing has changed since he made those remarks,”
Alibaba spokesman  John Spelich  said by phone today, declining to
elaborate.  Alibaba Investment  In 2005, Yahoo became the biggest investor in Alibaba,
after paying $1 billion and ownership of its Chinese operations
to the Hangzhou, eastern China-based company. Alibaba operates
e-commerce businesses including Alibaba.com and Taobao.com, in
addition to Yahoo’s China website.  Alibaba last month said users of its search-engine service
could access technology by  Sohu.com Inc. , in addition to
Microsoft’s Bing. Yahoo, owner of the most-visited U.S. Web
portal, offers the Bing technology under a 10-year agreement
with Microsoft.  “We respect Alibaba’s decision when it comes to which
partner they will work with on search technology,” Tsou said.  Yahoo expects it will post “strong growth” from its Asia
operations as the region adds more Internet users, Tsou said.
Third-quarter revenue in the Asia Pacific division rose 26
percent to $321.6 million, Yahoo reported last month.  Tsou, based in Taipei, is a director of Alibaba.com, the
Hong Kong-listed unit of Alibaba Group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  