-- Hyundai Engineering Shareholders Seek More Details on Planned Stake Sale
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k   a n d   S o o k y u n g   S e o
-- 2010-11-23T11:27:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/hyundai-engineering-shareholders-seek-details-on-buyer-s-funds.html
Hyundai Engineering & Construction
Co.  shareholders will delay signing an agreement on the sale of
a controlling stake to  Hyundai Group  until they receive more
information about how the buyer plans to finance the deal.  “We are trying to clarify some of the issues that are
worrying the market,” Korea Exchange Bank, a member of the
group selling the 35 percent stake in South Korea’s biggest
builder, said in an e-mailed statement today. “We will decide
on what actions to take should there be any false information.”  Hyundai Group’s largest unit,  Hyundai Merchant Marine Co. ,
has tumbled 20 percent in Seoul trading in the past six days
because of concerns about the acquisition that is said to be at
a price more than double the market value. The group may have to
raise about 4.8 trillion won ($4.2 billion) by the end of next
year to pay off maturing bonds and to finance the deal, based on
Bloomberg calculations.  The group said in an e-mailed statement that it had already
answered the sellers’ request. The shareholders are seeking more
information on a funding plan at Hyundai Merchant’s French unit
and about an agreement Hyundai Group signed with  Tong Yang
Securities Inc.  to participate in the acquisition, Korea
Exchange Bank said.  Hyundai Group has borrowed 1.2 trillion won from Paris-
based  Natixis SA  without issuing collateral, Yonhap News
reported today, citing a letter the group submitted to the
shareholders. There had been speculation the group borrowed the
funds against Hyundai Merchant shares or Hyundai Engineering
assets, the report said, without elaboration. Hyundai Group
declined to comment on the report.  Family Feud  Hyundai Group and Hyundai Motor Group made competing offers
for the controlling stake in the builder, extending a decade-
long family feud. Hyundai Group offered about 5.5 trillion won,
according to two people familiar with the situation.  Hyundai Motor Group asked the shareholders to review
Hyundai Group’s funding plan, the Korean-language online
newspaper MoneyToday reported today, citing a person close to
the negotiations. Hyundai Motor Co. Executive Vice President Kim
Bong Kyung said he didn’t know whether the automaking group had
made such a request.  “Regulations state that no other parties, including other
bidders, can lodge a complaint on the selection,” Hyundai Group
said today in an e-mailed statement. “We will monitor the
situation and decide whether to take legal actions.”  Hyundai Merchant , South Korea’s second-largest shipping
company, gained 0.7 percent to 35,950 won at the close of
trading in Seoul.  Hyundai Engineering  was little changed at
60,100 won.  Hyundai Motor Co. , South Korea’s biggest automaker,
dropped 3.1 percent to 175,000 won.  Preparing Funding  The sellers, previous creditors of Hyundai Engineering,
took over the builder in 2001 when it was struggling with bad
debts. The  construction company  has a market value of about 6.7
trillion won, based on data compiled by Bloomberg.  Hyundai Group has about 1.5 trillion won in  cash . It has
also drawn up plans to raise about 2.27 trillion won through
bond and share sales, some of which will be used to fund the
 Hyundai Engineering  deal.  Hyundai Group has taken steps to prepare for the
acquisition for some time, Vice President Jean Jeong Ho said
last week. He couldn’t disclose further details, he said. The
deal is due to be completed in the first quarter of next year,
Korea Exchange Bank has said.  Hyundai Motor Group severed ties with the original family
group in 2000, when Hyundai Group founder Chung Ju Yung picked
younger son Chung Mong Hun as successor over Chung Mong Koo, the
head of the automaker.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kyunghee Park  in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net ;
Sookyung Seo in Seoul at 
 sseo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  