-- Zodiac Open to Safran Pact Following Withdrawal of Bid
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2010-11-23T15:31:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/zodiac-seeks-2010-11-revenue-growth-of-about-15-higher-operating-margin.html
Zodiac Aerospace SA , Europe’s
biggest maker of aircraft seats, said it’s open to cooperation
with  Safran SA  after its rival dropped plans for a hostile bid.  Zodiac is interested in working with Safran on electric-
power technology to help meet passenger demand for improved in-
flight entertainment systems and faster broadband access, Chief
Executive  Olivier Guy Zarrouati  told analysts in Paris today.  “Our job is to create value,” Zarrouati said. “If our
environment says we could create more value together than alone,
the first thing we do is listen. Now relations have been
simplified by Safran’s declaration we can listen, explore and
analyze if there’s something to be done which has interest.”  Safran, which makes jet engines with General Electric Co.,
said on Nov. 18 it had dropped plans to make an offer for Zodiac
because conditions weren’t right for a “friendly combination.”
Zodiac said in July it had rejected an approach as unlikely to
deliver sufficient savings. Both companies are based in Paris.  “Zarrouati is highlighting that there are no hard
feelings,” said  Colin Campbell , a London-based analyst Societe
Generale with a “hold” rating on Zodiac stock. “I think it’s
sensible, the idea of cooperating project by project.”  Koito Fallout  Zarrouati said Zodiac is also seeking new business in
replacing seats built by Koito Industries Ltd., which Japan’s
transport ministry said in February had falsified safety tests.  The Federal Aviation Administration issued a directive in
September ordering U.S. airlines to determine whether Koito
seats on 278 planes met standards. Those that don’t will have to
be removed. The European Aviation Safety Agency withdrew
approval for the Yokohama, Japan-based company’s seats in 2009.  Zodiac, a supplier of cabin interiors and oxygen-
distribution and power-management systems to Airbus SAS and
Boeing Co., said today that net income fell 14 percent to 148.3
million euros ($200 million) in the fiscal year ended Aug. 31.  Shares  of the company, which declined 6 percent after
Safran withdrew its bid interest, were trading down 3.5 percent
at 48.10 euros as of 4:30 p.m. in Paris.  Zodiac said it’s targeting an improvement of 2.5 to 3
percentage points in its operating margin over the next three
years. Earnings this fiscal year are running at 12 to 13 percent
of sales, compared with 11.2 percent in fiscal 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Rothman  in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  