-- Disney's Playdom Settles Zinga's Trade-Secrets Lawsuit Over Social Gaming
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2010-11-23T21:33:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-23/zynga-playdom-reached-settlement-in-lawsuit.html
Walt Disney Co. ’s Playdom settled a
lawsuit filed by Zynga Game Network Inc., the biggest maker of
games on Facebook, alleging theft of trade secrets.  Terms of the settlement are confidential, the companies
said today in an e-mailed statement. Zynga is “extremely
pleased” with the resolution,  Reggie Davis , the San Francisco-
based company’s general counsel, said in the statement.  Disney is moving ahead with plans to use Playdom, the
Mountain View, California-based maker of “Social City,” to
expand its presence on social-network websites including
Facebook Inc., with more than 500 million users worldwide.
Disney acquired the company in August for $563.2 million  Disney declined to comment on the settlement,  Jonathan Friedland , a spokesman for the Burbank, California-based
company, said in an interview. The company was aware of Zynga’s
lawsuit when it bought Playdom, he said.  “The settlement reflects the very serious nature of the
conduct involved,” Zynga’s Davis said in the statement.  Zynga accused Playdom of using its “Playbook,” a
proprietary document that “is literally the recipe book that
contains Zynga’s ‘secret sauce,’” according to papers filed in
California state court in Santa Clara County.  That book contains “the most material non-public
commercially valuable concepts, techniques, know-how and best
practices for developing successful and distinctive social
games,” the company said in its pleadings.  ‘Mafia Wars’  Playdom also elicited proprietary information from
prospective employees in the guise of pre-employment interviews
in which Zynga workers were given a “small assignment” to
contrast and compare the two companies’ games and asked to
propose new features, Zynga said in court papers.  The settlement also resolves claims against co-defendants,
former Zynga employees Raymond Holmes, David Rohrl and Martha
Sapeta. Rorhl was Zynga’s director of game design, and Holmes
was a senior systems designer, according to court papers.  Zynga, the closely held maker of “Mafia Wars,” which is
played on Facebook, is the largest provider of games on social
networks, according to researcher AppData.com. Zynga also
created “FarmVille,” “Pirates” and “YoVille.”  Playdom created “Mobsters,” which infringes the “Mafia
Wars” trademark, Zynga said in its pleadings. Other Playdom
games are “Sorority Life” and “My Green Garden.”  Disney, the world’s biggest media company, fell 83 cents,
or 2.3 percent, to $36.12 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading.  The shares  have climbed 12 percent this year.  The case is Zynga Game Network Inc. v. Playdom Inc., 109-
cv-151723, California Superior Court (Santa Clara County).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andy Fixmer  in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net ; 