-- Give Us a Right to Be Free of Those Who Bear Arms: Ann Woolner
-- Ann Woolner
-- 2010-03-03T02:34:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-03-02/give-us-a-right-to-be-free-of-those-who-bear-arms-ann-woolner.html

          
          
             Second Amendment fans were at the
U.S. Supreme Court yesterday arguing that the constitutionally
protected right to bear arms should kill Chicago’s gun law.  
 The court will probably do just that. But Chicago’s ban on
handguns, along with one in suburban neighbor Oak Park, are the
only laws that are so restrictive. They don’t reflect what is
going on across much of the country.  
 The real problem is that state legislators want to give
more people the right to buy more guns and carry them into more
places.  
 In my home state, Georgia lawmakers are  pushing  a bill that
would welcome handguns into bars and houses of worship, onto
college campuses and state playgrounds. Subways would be fine
places to bring your firearms, as would the world’s busiest
airport, Atlanta’s. Political rallies, too.  
 Chicago’s looking better to me all the time.  
 In Virginia, a new law lets people with hidden guns take
them where alcohol is served. Plus, legislators there are
working to repeal a law that limits gun buyers to one purchase a
month, the New York Times  reports .  
 Twelve new guns per year per person apparently aren’t
enough in Virginia, in spite of bumper stickers claiming
Virginia is for lovers. That is fine until your multiply armed
lover thinks you are flirting with someone else as he downs a
few drinks at your neighborhood tavern. (Maybe that is why they
are called shooters.)  
 Out West, Arizona and Wyoming lawmakers are pondering the
idea of letting people carry concealed weapons without a permit.  
 Wild West  
 So eager are some states to let gun-toters tote guns that
Montana and Tennessee legislatures last year voted to exempt the
states from federal restrictions for guns and ammo that never
cross state lines.  
 So while the Supreme Court seems poised to say state and
local gun control laws can be limited by the Second Amendment,
I’m headed in the other direction.  
 I favor a reverse Second Amendment. It would read something
like this:  
 “Well-regulated firearms, being necessary to the security
of the states, the right of the people to be safe from gunfire
as they go about their daily lives shall not be infringed.”  
 I doubt the amendment would get through Congress, much less
through even a smattering of states for ratification. Federal
law now allows loaded guns in national parks, thanks to a bill
President  Barack Obama  signed last month. He thus reversed a ban
bearing President  Ronald Reagan ’s signature.  
 Suffering Setbacks  
 True, gun lovers have suffered setbacks, too. A federal
appeals court  sided  with Atlanta last year for declaring
Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport a gun-free zone
despite a 2008 state law allowing firearms there. That decision
is one of the reasons lawmakers want to take another run at it.  
 In Maryland, the gun-rights and gun-control forces are in a
stalemate, says Mark Arthur, who stood in the cold on the lower
plaza of the Supreme Court yesterday holding a sign favoring gun
rights.  
 A 40-year-old restaurant worker, Arthur is among others
trying to persuade the Maryland legislature to ease restrictions
that now require people to show “good and substantial reason”
to get permits to carry guns.  
 “It’s an individual right,” he says. The Supreme Court
said so in 2008 when it struck down the District of Columbia’s
gun ban. He is hoping the Supreme Court will give his cause
another boost by saying states and cities can’t interfere with
that right.  
 Sounding Hopeful  
 But gun-control advocate  Paul Helmke , president of the
Brady  Campaign  to Prevent Gun Violence, also sounded hopeful
when he talked to reporters outside the court.  
 “The crucial thing here is to have the court endorse
reasonable restrictions,” he said.  
 And during arguments before the Supreme Court yesterday, it
was clear that was the most that gun-control advocates could
expect. Still, it is something.  
 Even Justice  Antonin Scalia , a duck hunter and the author
of the 2008 ruling, has called reasonable gun restrictions
presumptively legal.  
 He repeated the point yesterday. A lawyer for Chicago and
Oak Park,  James A. Feldman , was arguing that the decision on the
District of Columbia, if extended to cities and states, still
allowed bans on some kinds of guns.  
 “That’s fine,” Scalia said. “We said as much” in the
2008 opinion.  
 What Is Reasonable  
 So now we are down to what is reasonable and what isn’t.
The notion of attending a political rally where people angry
over health care or anything else are packing heat scares me.
And there have been too many church shootings, including that of
Alberta King, Dr.  Martin Luther King Jr .’s mother,  killed  in my
hometown one Sunday morning, to feel good about letting guns in
church.  
 Arthur, who says he is a liberal who includes gun rights
among the civil rights he supports, makes it clear he thinks the
answer to gun violence is to let more people arm themselves.  
 “Just how would rendering me defenseless protect you from
violent criminals,” asks his sign.  
 I get that argument. But the notion of everyone around me
packing pistols wherever I go gives me no comfort.  
 Oak Park banned handguns in 1984 after a former policeman
smuggled a gun into a post-divorce proceeding and shot and
killed the judge and his ex-wife’s  lawyer , who lived in Oak
Park. Their killings drove friends and family to  push  for gun
control.  
 Anyone for a reverse Second Amendment?  
 ( Ann Woolner  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
 Ann Woolner  in Atlanta at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        