-- HSBC Backs Brazil Festival as Focus Shifts to Latin America
-- Farah Nayeri
-- 2010-03-03T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-03-02/hsbc-backs-brazil-festival-as-focus-shifts-to-latin-america.html

          
          
             HSBC Holdings Plc, Europe’s largest
bank, is backing a summer festival of Brazilian music and arts
at London’s Southbank Centre as it focuses on fast-growing
Latin America after profit declines at units in Europe and the
Middle East.  
 Concerts by Gilberto Gil and Maria Bethania and a talk by
soccer-player-turned-activist Socrates are highlights of the
Festival Brazil, organizers said last month. HSBC, which
wouldn’t disclose the cost of the sponsorship, is looking to
boost business in Asia and Latin America. The event runs from
June 19 through Sept. 5. Another HSBC unit is supporting Design
Miami and Design Miami/Basel this year.  
 Full-year net income at London-based HSBC, reported on
March 1, missed analyst estimates after costs for bad loans
climbed and profit fell in Europe and the Middle East. HSBC is
reducing its U.S. assets after posting more than $67 billion of
provisions in the past four years, mostly because of the 2003
acquisition of U.S. subprime lender Household International
Inc. In a sign of the bank’s emerging-markets focus, Chief
Executive Officer Michael Geoghegan has moved from London to
Hong Kong.  
 “In tough economic times, it’s easy to argue that this
kind of sponsorship is a luxury,” HSBC Chairman Stephen Green
said as the festival was announced at the Royal Festival Hall
on Feb. 8. “The world’s economic center of gravity is shifting
toward the emerging markets of East and South, and there is a
corresponding shift in the cultural center of gravity.”  
 Brazilian Growth  
 In 15 years, said Green, Brazil will be the world’s
fifth-largest economy. Today, HSBC is the country’s fifth-
biggest bank, with about 900 offices in Brazil, and the largest
international bank in Latin America, Green said.  
 The festival will feature installations by visual artist
Ernesto Neto inside the Hayward Gallery. There will be
performances by Os Mutantes, a rock band formed in the late
1960s, Tom Ze, and AfroReggae, a community-based group that
sprouted in the favelas of Rio de Janeiro in the 1990s.  
 After each sponsorship, HSBC bank does “a really thorough
and robust evaluation,” Marah Winn-Moon, HSBC’s head of
cultural sponsorship, said in an interview. “We have to,
frankly: It needs to deliver return on investment.”  
 Asked how return on cultural spending was measured, Winn-
Moon said that an estimated 7 million and 10 million people
would pass through the Southbank Centre this summer --
“engaging with Festival Brazil in one way or another, and
engaging with our brand.”  
 ‘Brand Health’  
 At the end of each sponsored project, HSBC looks for a
boost to its “brand health index” -- the brand’s public
perception -- which in the past has been “quite significant,”
she said. Finally, HSBC tracks new business after the event.  
 To ensure that the bank benefits at all levels, related
events around the world target every potential audience -- from
grassroots communities to chief executives. That was the case
during HSBC’s sponsorship of “Indian Summer” at the British
Museum last year, Winn-Moon said.  
 HSBC Private Bank, meanwhile, backs the Design Miami/
fair, which was held in December, and Design Miami/Basel, which
takes place in June.  
 “Collecting art is an investment opportunity for our
clients,” said Winn-Moon. As a sponsorship opportunity, a
design fair “makes complete sense for our private bank.”  
 In 2008, HSBC backed a festival called China Now with some
800 U.K.-wide events and performances to underscore its role as
a bridge-builder between the West and mainland China. In 2005,
the bank backed an exhibition of works by the Mexican artist
Frida Kahlo at London’s Tate Modern.  
 The bank was founded in 1865 as the Hongkong and Shanghai
Banking Corp.  
 Shares of HSBC rose 2.7 percent to 700.6 pence.  
 To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London on 
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Activist and former football player Socrates. Socrates will be appear at ''Festival Brazil'' at London's Southbank Centre which runs from June 10 to Sept. 5. The event is sponsored by HSBC, Europe's largest bank. Source: Southbank Centre via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Gilberto Gil  
                       
                         
                           Southbank Centre via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Singer Gilberto Gil. Gil will perform on July 21 at Southbank Centre, London,  UK, during ''Festival Brazil.'' 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Singer Gilberto Gil. Gil will perform on July 21 at Southbank Centre, London,  UK, during ''Festival Brazil.'' Source: Southbank Centre via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
