-- Vale Second-Quarter Profit Quadruples to $3.71 Billion From $790 Million
-- Jessica Brice
-- 2010-07-29T22:55:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-05-05/vale-reports-first-quarter-net-income-of-1-6-billion-as-ore-demand-gains.html

          
          
             Vale SA , the world’s largest iron-
ore producer, said second-quarter profit rose more than fourfold
because of surging prices for the steelmaking raw material.  
 Net income  gained to $3.71 billion, or 70 cents a share,
from $790 million, or 15 cents, in the year-earlier period, Rio
de Janeiro-based Vale said today in a regulatory filing. Vale
was expected to post per-share profit of 70 cents on an adjusted
basis, the average of  13 analysts  in a Bloomberg survey.  
 Vale is producing iron ore at full capacity and buying
mines outside Brazil as Chinese-led demand helped spot iron-ore
prices more than double in the quarter from a year earlier. The
company moved to a new system of pricing iron ore quarterly,
allowing it to benefit more quickly from price surges compared
with previous contracts that were signed on an annual basis.  
 “The positive price variation of iron ore is the main
factor,”  Felipe Reis , a Banco Santander analyst who rates the
stock a “buy,” said in a note to clients before results were
released. Santander sees “good prospects for the remaining
quarters of 2010, including the new round of iron-ore price
increases yet to be fully reflected in Vale’s operating
performance.”  
 Global shipments of iron ore will advance 6 percent to a
record 961 million tons this year, according to estimates by
 Clarkson Plc , the world’s biggest shipbroker.  
 Ore Price Surges  
 Vale said today that it sold iron ore at $91.93 a ton in
the second quarter, compared with $47.82 a ton in the year-
earlier period. The company sold about 69.6 million tons of ore
and pellets in the quarter, a 29 percent gain from a year ago.  
 Second-quarter sales  almost doubled to $9.9 billion, from
$5.1 billion in the prior period, Vale said. The results,
released after the close of regular trading in Sao Paulo, were
based on generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S.  
 Demand from China, the biggest buyer of iron-ore, will grow
about 10 percent this year,  Jose Carlos Martins , Vale’s
executive director of ferrous minerals, said April 14.  
 While last month’s Chinese steel output was the smallest
since February, the nation still accounted for 45 percent of
global supply. China is starting to rebuild stockpiles, while
the U.S. and Europe will likely boost inventories in the fourth
quarter,  Claudio Alves ,  Vale’s  director for iron-ore sales in
the Americas, said July 20 at an event in Rio de Janeiro.  
 Building Fleet  
 The miner is building its own fleet of ships to send ore
from Brazil to China. The company is also building distribution
centers in the Middle East and Asia to challenge  BHP Billiton
Ltd . and Rio Tinto Group, whose iron-ore mines in Australia are
closer to China. Vale’s market share in the seaborne market
dropped to about 25 percent in 2009, compared with 30 percent a
year earlier, because of reduced demand in Europe and Brazil.  
 The company said today it plans to buy Brazilian copper
producer  Paranapanema  SA for 2.01 billion reais as it seeks to
become one of the world’s top producers of the metal.  
 Vale said April 30 that it agreed to pay $2.5 billion for a
51 percent stake in BSG Resources (Guinea) Ltd. to gain access
to iron-ore deposits in the West African nation. On May 2, the
company said it is selling aluminum assets to Norsk Hydro ASA in
a $4.9 billion deal because the business had limited growth
potential. As part of the transaction, Vale will become the
Oslo-based company’s second-largest shareholder.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:  
          
          


  


        