-- Norilsk's Prokhorov Favors Rusal Bid Over Potanin's
-- Maria Kolesnikova
-- 2007-12-05T15:19:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-12-05/norilsk-s-prokhorov-favors-rusal-bid-over-potanin-s-update2-.html

          
          
             Mikhail Prokhorov  rejected a plea
from business partner  Vladimir Potanin  to lower the asking price
for his stake in  Russia 's biggest miner  OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel (GMKN) 
and said he preferred a rival bid from United Co. Rusal.  
 Prokhorov won't cut the $15.7 billion in cash he wants
Potanin to pay for the 25 percent stake, the former's Moscow-
based Onexim Group said today in an e-mailed statement. While
Potanin has first refusal on Prokhorov's stake, Rusal's offer is
``more profitable,'' Onexim director Dmitry Razumov said.  
 ``Prokhorov probably sees Rusal as a more attractive market
story than Norilsk,'' said  Vladimir Zhukov , Moscow-based analyst
with  Lehman Brothers . ``The united company could list on the
London Stock Exchange and be included into the FTSE-100.''  
 Rusal agreed to buy Prokhorov's stake in Norilsk, subject
to Potanin's decision. Rusal, the world's second-largest
aluminum producer, said last week that acquiring the shares
could be the first step in a takeover of Norilsk. A combination
of the companies would create a company with a value of $100
billion, according to Prokhorov.  
 Potanin's Interros holding company is ready to buy the
stake under the same conditions as Rusal, Interros spokesman
Andrei Kirpichnikov said by phone today. Interros declined to
comment on Onexim's statement, he added.  
 Potanin owns about 25 percent of Norilsk.  
 Lower Offer  
 Rusal's offer is 20 percent lower than the $15.7 billion
Prokhorov wants from Potanin, Kommersant reported today, citing
Interros head Andrei Klishas. Rusal is offering 11 percent of
its shares and $7 billion to $8 billion in cash, the newspaper
added, citing an unidentified person close to the aluminum
company.  
 ``The deal with Rusal looks more realistic than one with
Potanin, who will probably find it difficult to raise that much
money in cash,'' Zhukov said.  
 Norilsk's growth program relies on acquisitions and
expensive greenfield projects, while Rusal plans to boost
production 40 percent by 2015 through cheaper upgrades and
expansions, Zhukov said. Norilsk's earnings would help finance
Rusal's growth, he added.  
 Norilsk rose 95.66 rubles ($3.91) or 1.44 percent to 6,747
rubles at 4:20 p.m. on the Micex Stock Exchange in Moscow.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net ;
Yuriy Humber in Moscow at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at   swallace6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        