-- Russia's Nuclear Machine Builder Plans to Buy Abroad
-- Yuriy Humber
-- 2007-12-05T14:12:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-12-05/russia-s-nuclear-machine-builder-plans-to-buy-abroad-update1-.html

          
          
             OAO Atomenergomash,  Russia 's state-controlled holding company in nuclear machine-building, plans to
spend $300 million on ventures and acquisitions next year,
expanding abroad as demand for atomic energy rises.  
 The holding may also team up with Russia's Renova Group,
licensed by  Japan 's  Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. (7011)  to produce
its gas-turbines, Atomenergomash Chairman Kirill Komarov told
reporters in Moscow today. Talks on acquisitions in the  Czech
Republic  and  Hungary  will be completed next year, he said.  
 ``There are in effect three big players in the world in
nuclear machinery, and we plan to be the fourth,'' Komarov said.  
 Atomenergomash, formed in April last year, will deliver the
equipment and components Russia needs to build at least 40
reactors domestically by 2030. A shortage of parts producers in
Russia means the holding needs to acquire suppliers in eastern
 Europe  and the former  Soviet Union , Komarov said.  
 ``Where there is competition, we'll contract, where there is
a monopoly supplier we will certainly look to buy to secure long-term prices and volumes,'' Komarov said, without specifying
particular targets.  
 The alliance of  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Hitachi Ltd. (6501) ,
coupled with the grouping of  Toshiba Corp. (6502) 's Westinghouse
Electrical Co., and  Areva SA (AREVA)  with  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  will form the
main competition, Komarov said.  
 Alstom Venture  
 Atomenergomash spent more than $200 million this year on new
assets including on setting up a Russian venture with  Alstom SA (ALO) ,
the world's third-largest engineering company, to produce turbines
and other equipment for nuclear power plants.  
 The holding will also invest $1 billion in the next two years
to upgrade and expand current facilities that include OAO ZiO-Podolsk, a producer of heat insulation and separation equipment,
and OAO IK Ziomar, a nuclear engineering firm, both based in
Podolsk, near Moscow.  
 Atomenergomash, a unit of Russian nuclear holding Atomic
Energy Power Corp., will use its own funds and bank loans to
finance the projects. Revenue will rise to 10.2 billion rubles
($420 million) this year and increase by at least 30 percent next
year, the company said in an e-mailed statement today.  
 ``Our current growth reflects just the increase in orders
from thermal energy generators,'' Komarov said. ``Russia's nuclear
industry orders will start next year.''  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Moscow at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        