-- Coca-Cola, Femsa Get Approval to Buy Jugos del Valle
-- Thomas Black
-- 2007-07-18T21:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-07-18/coca-cola-femsa-get-approval-to-buy-jugos-del-valle-update4-.html

          
          
             Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , the world's largest
soft-drink maker, and its Mexican bottler received antitrust
approval to buy a juice producer for $380 million with
conditions to encourage competition.  
 Mexico 's antitrust agency approved the  purchase  of Mexican
juice-maker  Jugos del Valle SAB  on the condition that Coca-Cola
and local bottler Coca-Cola Femsa SAB don't impose exclusivity
contracts on retailers or tie juice sales to soft-drink sales,
the regulator said in an e-mailed statement today.  
 Coca-Cola and Coca-Cola Femsa agreed to buy Jugos del
Valle, Mexico's second-largest juice producer, in December to
boost non-carbonated drink sales in  Latin America . The company
sells drinks under brands such as Frutsi and Bebere in Mexico
and  Brazil .  
 Antitrust regulators blocked the purchase in May, then
reversed themselves yesterday with the conditional approval
after the companies appealed.  
 Coca-Cola owns 32 percent of Coca-Cola Femsa, which is a
unit of  Fomento Economico Mexicano SA (FEMSAUBD) , Latin America's largest
beverage company.  
 The agency also limited exclusive sales to Fomento
Economico's OXXO stores and said refrigerators the companies
provide to small retailers must be able to display competing
drinks. The companies must also divest Jugos del Valle's soft-
drink brands, among other conditions.  
 Separately today, Jugos del Valle said securities
regulators fined the company for failing to fully inform the
public during its sale to Coca-Cola and Coca-Cola Femsa.  
 Mexico's National Banking and Securities Commission said
the company's statements to the stock exchange before the sale
were ``insufficient.'' The commission fined the company 1.9
million pesos ($176,540), Mexico City-based Jugos del Valle
said.  
 Shares of Coca-Cola rose 26 cents to $53.43 at 4:01 p.m. in
 New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. They've gained 11
percent this year. Shares of Coca-Cola Femsa increased 68
centavos, or 1.3 percent, to 51.5 pesos in Mexico.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net  or
 Thomas Black  in Monterrey, Mexico at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Nol at   mnol@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        