-- Russian Stocks Fall, Led by Rosneft, Lukoil, Surgutneftegaz
-- William Mauldin
-- 2007-07-18T14:22:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-07-18/russian-stocks-fall-led-by-rosneft-lukoil-surgutneftegaz.html

          
          
             Russian stocks declined for a second
day, led by shares of oil producers OAO Rosneft, OAO Lukoil and
OAO Surgutneftegaz.  
 The ruble-denominated  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  fell 1.2 percent to
1767.64. The dollar-denominated  RTS Index (RTSI$)  dropped 0.9 percent to
2036.59.  
 Oil futures traded little changed after declining yesterday
on speculation that U.S. gasoline supplies rose for a third week
as refiners increased output.  Brent crude  for September delivery
added 10 cents, or 0.1 percent, to $75.63 a barrel after sliding
1 percent to $75.53 a barrel in  London  yesterday.  
 Energy companies make up almost half of the value of the
Russian stock market. The Micex Oil & Gas Index fell 1.2 percent.  
 ``I would say it's a little bit of oil-price pressure,''
said Anton Lushnikov, an international sales trader at Moscow-based Metropol.  
 Rosneft,  Russia 's biggest oil producer, sank 1.5 percent to
220.13 rubles on the Micex Stock Exchange. Lukoil, the country's
second-biggest oil producer, fell 1.2 percent to 2133.23 rubles.
Surgutneftegaz, the fourth-biggest producer, dropped 2.3 percent
to 30.173 rubles.  
 Political concern weighed on investors for a second day
after Britain expelled Russian diplomats in response to the
country's refusal to extradite a former spy and murder suspect.  
 Diplomacy  
 ``I wouldn't completely sweep the diplomatic dispute under
the rug,'' said Michael Teagarden, a sales trader at UBS AG in
Moscow.  
 Shares of OAO Pharmstandard, a pharmaceuticals company part-owned by billionaire  Roman Abramovich , climbed 0.7 percent to
$16.40 in London. Citigroup Inc. initiated coverage of the stock
with a ``buy'' recommendation and a price estimate of $21, saying
the shares could benefit from Russia's position as the world's
fastest-growing major pharmaceuticals market over the past two
years.  
 ``Pharmstandard stands out for its superior track record as
evidenced by constantly growing market share,'' Citigroup analyst
Marat Ibragimov in Moscow wrote in a research note. Ibragimov
said that the company produces three of the top 25 over-the-counter drugs in Russia.  
 OAO Irkut, the maker of Sukhoi fighter jets, climbed 2
percent to 25.875 rubles, the biggest jump in more than a month.
Economy Minister  German Gref  told reporters yesterday that OAO
United Aircraft Corp., which is combining Russia's main aircraft
designers and manufacturers, may sell shares to the public next
year.  
 Baltika  
 Shares of OAO Baltika Breweries, Russia's largest beer
brewer, climbed 2.3 percent to 1246.45 rubles. Carlsberg A/S
Chairman Povl Krogsgaard-Larsen acknowledged that there are
rumors that Carlsberg may be interested in buying the other half
of Baltika's holding company from Scottish & Newcastle Plc,
Boersen reported today. He was quoted by the newspaper as saying
that Scottish & Newcastle is an ``interesting partner.''  
 OAO Severstal, Russia's biggest steelmaker, climbed 0.9
percent to 437.52 rubles. Deutsche Bank AG raised its price
estimate for the stock 11 percent to $19.50 (496 rubles), saying
the steelmaker could benefit from a forecast of higher steel
prices in  Europe  over the next three years.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
William Mauldin in Moscow at 
 wmauldin1@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balduin Hesse at 
 bhesse2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        