-- M&A Snaps Back as BHP, Intel Drive Busiest Quarter in 2 Years
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2010-09-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/m-a-snaps-back-as-bhp-intel-drive-busiest-quarter-in-2-years.html
Dealmaking staged a comeback in the
third quarter, with a jump in multibillion-dollar takeovers
putting this year on pace to surpass 2009.  The quarter was the busiest in two years, with $562.6
billion of announced transactions, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. BHP Billiton Ltd. made an unsolicited $40 billion
offer for Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc., Sanofi-Aventis SA
began its pursuit of Genzyme Corp. for at least $18.5 billion,
and Intel Corp. announced its largest acquisition, the $7.7
billion takeover of security-software maker McAfee Inc.  “M&A activity in the third quarter was strong, even better
than expected,” said  Jeffrey Kaplan , global head of mergers and
acquisitions at Bank of America Corp., which is advising Potash
Corp. on its takeover defense. “I see real potential for a
broad-based recovery with a lot of larger corporate deals.”  With almost $3 trillion of cash in their coffers, companies
drove a 59 percent increase in takeovers from a year ago,
Bloomberg data show. Record-low borrowing costs encouraged
dealmaking as the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  headed for its
best September since 1939. The number of transactions valued at
more than $3 billion doubled in the quarter, the data show.  The jump in deals in the third quarter, typically the
slowest three-month period of the year, brings total announced
takeovers to $1.48 trillion in the first nine months of 2010,
compared with $1.76 trillion in all of 2009. This quarter
accounted for about 38 percent of the volume so far this year.  ‘Flush With Cash’  “We are at the start of an up-cycle,” said  Henrik Aslaksen , Deutsche Bank AG’s global head of M&A in London.
“Companies are flush with cash and have decided that it might
be a good time to pick up quality assets they may have been
eyeing for a while.”  Oracle Corp. Chief Executive Officer  Larry Ellison  said on
Sept. 23 the company is seeking to buy chipmakers and extend its
push into computer hardware. Procter & Gamble Co. CEO  Bob McDonald  said earlier this month his company is on the lookout
for brands with international appeal.  The 1,000 biggest companies by market value worldwide have
amassed about $2.87 trillion in cash and equivalents based on
their latest filings, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The figure excludes financial-services firms. Nestle SA,
Europe’s largest company by market value, got $28.1 billion from
an asset sale last month, sparking investor speculation it may
step up takeovers.  Record-Low Rates  “Major corporations have the ability to implement deals
and long-term strategies now, given their large cash buildup and
the availability of low-cost financing,” said  Paul Parker , head
of global M&A at Barclays Capital, the investment-banking unit
of London-based Barclays Plc.  U.S. companies taking advantage of cheaper financing
include Microsoft Corp., PepsiCo Inc. and  Hewlett-Packard Co. ,
which won a $2.35 billion takeover battle for 3Par Inc. in the
third quarter and also agreed to buy ArcSight Inc., a maker of
network-security software, for $1.5 billion.  Microsoft last week sold $1 billion of three-year notes at
0.875 percent, the lowest interest rate on record for that
maturity, according to Barclays Capital data.  Buyouts also recovered in the quarter, with takeovers
involving private-equity firms more than tripling from a year
earlier to $58.3 billion. Burger King Holdings Inc. agreed to be
acquired by 3G Capital for $3.3 billion in the biggest
restaurant deal in at least a decade, while CVC Capital Partners
Ltd. agreed to buy TDC A/S’s Swiss unit for 3.3 billion Swiss
francs ($3.4 billion).  Tax Driver  Private-equity firms may do more deals in the remainder of
the year as they race to sell assets ahead of possible tax
changes in the U.S., according to  Jeffrey Raich , managing
director and co-founder of Moelis & Co. The rate on carried
interest, or the share of profits that fund executives earn as
part of their compensation, is slated to rise to 20 percent in
2011 from 15 percent currently.  “You are seeing a lot of seller deals based on concerns
about increases in capital-gains tax rates and potential
legislation around carried interest have driven private-equity
firms to sell portfolio companies this year,” Raich said. New
York-based Moelis advised Connecticut-based buyout firm
Littlejohn & Co. on the $890 million sale of Van Houtte Inc.
coffee to Green Mountain Coffee Roasters Inc. this month.  Blackstone Group LP, the world’s biggest private-equity
firm, said Sept. 23 that a $10 billion buyout is possible as
banks are more willing to lend.  Failed Deals  To be sure, volatile markets and the outlook for earnings
in certain industries are making some deals hard to get done. At
least one buyout failed to materialize when talks ended between
disk-drive maker Seagate Technology Plc and private-equity firms
TPG Capital and Silver Lake for a $7 billion deal, people with
knowledge of the discussions said last week.  P&G dropped a plan to merge its Pringles unit with Diamond
Foods Inc. in August, people with knowledge of the talks said
this month. Confidence among U.S. consumers in September fell to
the lowest level in seven months as Americans became more
pessimistic about the labor market, according to Sept. 28
figures from the Conference Board.  “I’m the most positive I’ve been since the beginning of
the year, but I don’t think we are about to experience a new M&A
boom,” said  Giuseppe Monarchi , head of Europe, Middle East and
Africa M&A for Credit Suisse Group AG.  ‘Significant Confidence’  Mergers and acquisitions will be the most robust in the
financial-services, technology and natural resources industries,
said  Peter Weinberg , partner and co-founder of Perella Weinberg
Partners in New York. He said improved confidence at the start
of the year has been the impetus for activity now because of the
typical six- to nine-month lag time to arrange a deal.  “People had significant confidence in the equity markets,
the financing markets or their own strategic aspirations,” said
Weinberg.  The S&P 500 Index rallied 80 percent from its bear market
low in March 2009 through April 23 of this year, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. The benchmark gauge for U.S. equities then
retreated 16 percent through July 2 and has since rebounded 12
percent.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is the top takeover adviser this
year with $325.9 billion of deals and was followed by Morgan
Stanley, which has $301.6 billion, according to Bloomberg data.
New York-based JPMorgan Chase & Co., which is advising BHP on
its Potash Corp. bid, ranked third with $263.1 billion in deals.
Credit Suisse and Bank of America ranked fourth and fifth, the
data show.  “We are cautiously optimistic about next year,” said
 Hernan Cristerna , JPMorgan’s head of European M&A in London.
“Conditions are in place for 2011 to be better than 2010 in
terms of volumes.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brett Foley  in London at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeff St.Onge at   jstonge@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 