-- Demise of `Last Mohican' Cements Medvedev Win Over Local Bosses
-- B y   L u c i a n   K i m
-- 2010-09-29T10:29:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/-last-mohican-luzhkov-s-exit-completes-medvedev-triumph-over-local-bosses.html
Yury Luzhkov ’s ouster after 18
years as mayor of Moscow completes Russia’s purge of independent
regional leaders begun during  Vladimir Putin ’s presidency.  President  Dmitry Medvedev , 45, fired Luzhkov yesterday
following a power struggle that played out in the national media
after the 74-year-old mayor criticized Medvedev’s decision to
suspend construction of a Moscow-to-St. Petersburg highway.  “The attacks on Medvedev didn’t just hurt the president
but the federal authorities,” said  Nikolai Petrov , an analyst
at the  Carnegie Moscow Center . “If the decision hadn’t been
taken to fire him, the damage would have been even bigger.”  Luzhkov, dubbed “the last Mohican” by state news service
 RIA Novosti , is the final regional strongman to leave the
national stage, as Medvedev brings in a team of younger leaders
who lack their own power bases. Putin, 57, who sparred with
Luzhkov before the 2000 presidential election, began
strengthening federal control when he canceled direct election
of regional leaders, including the Moscow mayor, six years ago.  Other regional chiefs have quit under pressure from the
Kremlin since Medvedev came to power in 2008.  Murtaza Rakhimov ,
76, resigned in July after 20 years as president of the oil-rich
region of Bashkortostan. That followed the January retirement of
 Mintimer Shaimiyev , 73, who had been president of Tatarstan for
more than two decades, and last year’s departure of  Eduard Rossel , 72, governor of Sverdlovsk for 18 years.  Billionaire Wife  The drive to oust Luzhkov began on Sept. 10, when Kremlin-
controlled television stations began airing a series of
documentaries that accused the mayor of corruption and
favoritism toward his wife, billionaire developer  Yelena Baturina , charges both have denied.  Luzhkov may fight his ouster in court, Interfax reported,
citing the ex-mayor’s friend  Iosif Kobzon , a member of
parliament and singer. Kobzon spent several hours with Luzhkov
yesterday after Medvedev fired him, the news service said.
Luzhkov’s spokesman, Sergei Tsoi, didn’t answer his mobile phone
today.  Moscow’s image as a smoggy, traffic-clogged city run by the
same man for two decades clashed with Medvedev’s call to turn
the capital into an international center for finance and
technology, said  Gleb Pavlovsky , head of the Moscow-based
Effective Policy Foundation, which has advised the Kremlin.  Construction Boom  “Moscow sabotaged modernization,” Pavlovsky said.
“Moscow didn’t have to modernize because the money flowed
anyway. It sounded funny to talk about a global financial
center.”  As mayor, Luzhkov oversaw a budget of more than 1 trillion
rubles ($32.8 billion) and a city that accounts for almost a
quarter of the national economy. He helped stifle discontent by
funding social programs and oversaw a construction boom that
transformed Moscow with highways and high-rise buildings. He
also got rich.  Luzhkov declared that Baturina earned 30.9 billion rubles
($1 billion) last year, according to documents posted on the
municipal government’s website in May. Baturina, 47, is the only
woman on Forbes magazine’s Russian billionaire list.  Baturina said last week there was no conflict of interest
between her husband’s position and ZAO Inteco, her development
company. Inteco won only one city contract and was forced to
abandon it because local authorities didn’t meet their
obligations, she told the Moscow-based magazine The New Times.  Presidential Ambitions  “I have no idea what preferential treatment I’m supposedly
getting,” Baturina said.  After giving up his own presidential ambitions a decade
ago, Luzhkov consistently delivered large majorities for Putin’s
United Russia party, including 71.5 percent of the city’s vote
for Medvedev in 2008.  Luzhkov would have continued producing electoral results,
said  Stanislav Belkovsky , head of the Institute for National
Strategy in Moscow. The issue for the Kremlin was that Luzhkov’s
fifth term would have ended next summer, so his replacement
wouldn’t have had enough time to prepare for parliamentary and
presidential elections in December and March, Belkovsky said.  “The new mayor will work to preserve the basic economic
structure, not dismantle it,” Belkovsky said. “The goal will
be to control the money flows, as the elite didn’t think it was
fair that a man of the past controlled them.”  Stalinism  A former chemical engineer, Luzhkov came to power in 1992
under the late President  Boris Yeltsin . At the time, Putin was a
bureaucrat in the St. Petersburg mayor’s office, and Medvedev a
law instructor at St. Petersburg State University. Medvedev
joined the Kremlin staff when Putin succeeded Yeltsin in 2000;
Putin chose Medvedev as his successor in 2008 because of a
constitutional ban on three consecutive presidential terms.  The ex-mayor questioned Medvedev’s commitment to democracy
and warned of a return to Stalinist dictatorship in a  letter 
published by The New Times today. Luzhkov made an ultimatum to
Medvedev to remove him or disavow the state media campaign
against him in the letter, which he delivered to the
presidential administration on Sept. 27.  Putin said yesterday that while Luzhkov did a lot to
develop Moscow, it was “utterly obvious” that his relationship
with Medvedev didn’t work out. He and Medvedev will discuss
possible candidates to replace Luzhkov, the prime minister said.  Possible Successors  National media have focused on a handful of possible
successors, including Deputy Prime Minister  Sergei Sobyanin  and
Emergency Situations Minister  Sergei Shoigu .  Alexander Khloponin , the Kremlin’s envoy to the North Caucasus region,
said today he’d be prepared to become mayor if nominated,
Interfax reported.  It doesn’t matter who becomes the next mayor so long as two
criteria are fulfilled, Belkovsky said. Luzhkov’s successor must
be tied to the federal administration and be ready to
redistribute the property and financial flows, he said.  “It would make sense to create a technocratic system of
management in Moscow, to find a sort of city manager,” said
Pavlovsky. “Changes are inevitable, but nobody wants any
revolutions in Moscow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lucian Kim  in Moscow at 
 lkim3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  