-- ‘Sopranos’ Gangster Plays Detroit Cop, Sells Tequila: Interview
-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 2010-09-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/-sopranos-gangster-plays-detroit-detective-pitches-tequila-interview.html
Michael Imperioli , who played
hotheaded gangster Christopher Moltisante on “The Sopranos,”
is now on the other side of the law.  In the new ABC television series “ Detroit 1-8-7 ,”
Imperioli portrays Louis Fitch, a workaholic homicide detective
in a city with one of the nation’s highest murder rates. A
brilliant interrogator of criminal suspects, Fitch’s life
outside the station is a mystery to his colleagues.  “He’s very private,” Imperioli said in an interview at
 ABC  headquarters in New York. “Nobody who works with him knows
anything about his personal life. He’s not the easiest guy to
get along with, but he’s extremely good at his job.”  Like his character, Imperioli has a hectic schedule.  In addition to shooting the series, which airs Tuesday
nights, the 44-year-old father of three is promoting his
directorial debut, “ The Hungry Ghosts ,” a movie about a group
of troubled New Yorkers that opens Friday. He recently sold the
Chelsea building that housed the theater company he ran with his
wife Victoria for $4.1 million, and he stars in a popular series
of TV commercials for 1800 Tequila.  Dressed in jeans, a brown leather jacket and sneakers,
Imperioli projects none of the menace or unpredictability of his
“Sopranos” character, who once shot a bakery clerk in the foot
for not showing him the proper respect.  Bloated Creatures  He’s slight and soft-spoken, more comfortable talking about
Buddhism than mob hits. (“Hungry Ghosts” refers to imaginary
Tibetan creatures with bloated bellies, tiny mouths and spindly
limbs who are tormented by unfulfilled desires.)  “I’ve played some gangster roles, but that’s obviously not
me,” Imperioli said. “When you’re an Italian-American New York
actor, it’s just an easy way to get cast.”  “Detroit 1-8-7” -- the numbers are police slang for
murder -- is filmed in that blue-collar Michigan city, providing
a flavor of authenticity.  “Detroit offers a unique visual landscape that tells the
story of the city and what it’s been through,” Imperioli said.
“It’s been a very difficult time, but there’s a sense of
renaissance happening now with the renovation and rehabilitation
of old buildings and neighborhoods.”  ‘Hungry Ghosts’  “The Hungry Ghosts” is a low-budget indie film that
features three cast members from “The Sopranos” and 19 actors
who appeared in productions at  Studio Dante , the theater run by
Imperioli and his wife. Steven Schirripa, who played Tony
Soprano’s brother-in-law Bobby “Bacala” Baccalieri, co-stars
as a late-night radio host with drug and gambling problems.  “I like working with people I know and feel a kinship
to,” Imperioli said. “Some of these actors I knew even before
‘The Sopranos.’ We were in acting school together when we were
teenagers.”  Imperioli struggled for years before landing his first
role. He was rejected hundreds of times at auditions, even for
tiny parts in off-off-Broadway productions.  “I’d go for parts that didn’t pay a dime, and there would
be 300 to 400 actors there,” Imperioli said. “It could be very
discouraging. To make it in this business, you have to have a
kind of dumb sense that you’re really good. You have to believe
that someone is going to recognize that, no matter how many
times you’re turned down.”  Fake Blood  Imperioli got his first big break in  Martin Scorsese ’s
“ Goodfellas ,” the 1990 mob classic starring  Robert De Niro ,
 Ray Liotta  and  Joe Pesci . He played a bartender who is shot to
death by Pesci’s maniacal character.  Imperioli cut his hand while filming that scene and was
taken to the hospital for stitches. When emergency-room workers
saw the fake blood and bullet holes in his chest, they thought
the wounds were real and wanted to rush him into surgery.  “I kept telling them that it was only my hand, but they
thought I was delirious,” Imperioli said. “Finally they opened
my shirt and saw all the wires and blood packs. But I still had
to wait an hour to get stitched up.”  To contact the writer on the story:
 Rick Warner  in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 