-- Maehara Says China `Escalated' Tension Unnecessarily Over Boat Collision
-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i
-- 2010-09-29T08:40:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/maehara-says-china-escalated-tension-unnecessarily-over-boat-collision.html
Japan’s Foreign Minister  Seiji Maehara  said China’s reaction to the detention of a fishing boat
captain escalated tensions unnecessarily and the dispute could
hurt the global economy and bilateral relations.  Japan last week freed the captain following a 17-day
detention after his boat collided with two Coast Guard vessels
near islands claimed by both countries. His release last week
failed to assuage China, which reportedly halted exports of rare
earth metals to Japan and demanded reparations. Japan countered
by calling on China to pay for repairs to the patrol boats.  “It was regrettable as China’s response was escalated to
the extreme,” Maehara, 48, said in a group interview today in
Tokyo. “The people of the world have seen an aspect of China’s
true nature.”  The incident re-ignited a dispute between Asia’s two
biggest economies over uninhabited islands in the East China Sea
that threatens to hurt bilateral trade and destabilize the
region.  “If two of the world’s largest economies are bickering and
lowering economic exchange and activity with each other it is
negative for both of us and the world economy,” Maehara said.  Japan is China’s second-biggest trading partner after the
U.S., with two-way commerce in the first seven months of the
year rising 25 percent from the same period in 2009 to $65.2
billion, Chinese customs data show. China is Japan’s largest
trading partner, buying 10.2 trillion yen ($121 billion) of the
nation’s goods and services last year.  ‘First Step’  Maehara said China could take an important “first step”
in repairing ties by resolving the situation of four Japanese
employees of construction company Fujita Corp. detained for
allegedly videotaping military targets. Japanese consular
officials are having their second meeting with the detainees
today, Maehara and Chief Cabinet Secretary  Yoshito Sengoku  said.  “We are calling for a speedy and harmonious resolution of
the issue,” Maehara, who took over the foreign ministry two
weeks ago, said.  He also said North Korean leader  Kim Jong Il ’s appointment
of his son to the second-highest military position in the
communist country’s ruling party “shows the intention for
paving the way for a successor is visible.”  The appointment of  Kim Jong Un  came a day after he was made
a four-star general. Kim’s sister,  Kim Kyong Hui , was also given
several high-ranking posts, a sign the family is tightening its
control over a country hurt by famine, a bungled currency
revaluation and United Nations sanctions targeted at its nuclear
weapons programs.  “We need to cautiously examine how the transfer of power
will be done by analyzing North Korea’s domestic situation,”
Maehara said. 