-- Afghan War `Progress' Signals Little Change Needed, Mullen Says
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2010-09-29T18:20:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/afghan-war-progress-signals-little-change-needed-u-s-admiral-mullen-says.html
The war in Afghanistan is showing
“signs of progress,” and the U.S. strategy probably won’t
require significant changes in a status review in December,
President  Barack Obama ’s top military adviser said.  Admiral  Mike Mullen  cited improvements in training of
Afghan soldiers and police to take on more of the fight and
military advances in former Taliban strongholds. A planned year-
end examination of the strategy Obama unveiled last December
will look mainly at how it has been carried out.  “There may be some adjustments, but I don’t expect any
massive changes in December,” Mullen, the chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff, told reporters in Washington today. “We are
starting to see some progress.”  The U.S. military and its NATO-led allies are under
pressure to show results in Afghanistan as public support wanes
for keeping troops in the nine-year war. Obama added 30,000
troops to turn back the Taliban in the main populated areas and
train Afghan security forces sufficiently that the coalition can
begin withdrawing in July.  Mullen echoed Army General  David Petraeus , the top U.S. and
NATO commander in Afghanistan, in saying July will mark the
“beginning of a process” of drawing down rather than a quick
exit.  The Joint Chiefs chairman said it is too early to predict
how many of the coalition forces can be pulled out of
Afghanistan at that time or where they might hand over functions
to the Afghans.  July 2011  “It’s important to get to July 2011 because I think then
we will have very strong indicators as to whether this is
working or not,” said Mullen, who took office as chairman in
October 2007 under President  George W. Bush . Obama renewed his
tenure, with Senate confirmation, for a second term that began
in October 2009.  Petraeus is preparing a transition plan for a November
summit of the  North Atlantic Treaty Organization , showing how
control would be handed gradually to Afghan security forces
starting next year.  July 2011 doesn’t mean a “race for the exits,” Petraeus
told reporters traveling with Mullen in Kabul earlier this
month. Some forces also may be moved from areas of relative calm
to more restive parts of Afghanistan.  The coalition will “start to thin the troops in July,
which will mean that some of them will come home,” Mullen said
at the time.  Commanders and coalition officials say that, while they can
hammer the Taliban with the troops added this year and begin to
turn over some functions to the Afghan government in 2011, they
will need more time to finish the job. They cite Obama’s
assertion that the pace of the withdrawal will be determined
based on conditions on the ground.  “The sooner, the better,” said NATO Secretary General
 Anders Fogh Rasmussen  during a visit to Washington this month.
“But we have to make sure that we get conditions right before
we start this process.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva4@bloomberg.net  