-- TAG Heuer Plans to Double Watch Stores in India as Luxury Demand Increases
-- B y   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 2010-09-29T11:40:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/tag-heuer-plans-to-double-watch-stores-in-india-as-luxury-demand-increases.html
TAG Heuer, the Swiss watch brand
owned by  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA , plans to more than
double its exclusive outlets in India as economic growth and
stock market gains spur spending on luxury.  TAG Heuer, endorsed by Bollywood actor  Shah Rukh Khan , will
open 15 showrooms in India in three years, said Manishi Sanwal,
general manager of LVMH’s watch and jewelry division in the
country. The company, which has six outlets, aims to spend 1
billion rupees ($22 million) for the expansion, he said.  India’s rich are splurging on Mercedes-Benz cars, Gucci
shoes and Burberry’s shirts, buoyed by  rising stock prices  and
an accelerating economy. The number of millionaires in the
nation rose 51 percent last year, according to a report by
Merrill Lynch Global Wealth Management and Cap Gemini SA.  The market is growing at about 25 percent “at least for
the high-end watches because the base is low,” Sanwal said in
an interview in Mumbai today. About 40 percent of the watches
are sold in Mumbai and New Delhi, he said.  The Indian luxury market, including cars and jets, is
forecast to reach about $14 billion by 2010 end and then double
to $30 billion by 2015, consultant AT Kearney predicted in 2007.
Daimler AG, the world’s second-biggest maker of luxury cars,
expects sales of Mercedes-Benz in India to rival the U.K. within
a decade.  The nation’s economy grew 8.8 percent in the quarter ended
June 30, the fastest pace in two-and-a-half years. Indian stocks
attracted a record $18.5 billion from foreign funds this year,
driving a rally that made the nation’s equity index the best
performer among the world’s 10 biggest markets.  Hublot, another Swiss watch brand owned by LVMH, plans to
more than double its stores in Asia to benefit from the region’s
increasing wealth. The Paris-based  LVMH  is the world’s biggest
luxury-goods maker.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Malavika Sharma in New Delhi at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  