-- AIG Weighs Plan to End U.S. Stake, Gain ‘Clarity’ for Firm
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2010-09-29T22:48:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/aig-weighs-plan-to-end-u-s-stake-gain-clarity-for-bailed-out-insurer.html
American International Group Inc. ’s
board met yesterday to weigh a U.S. Treasury Department plan
that the bailed-out insurer’s chairman said may repay taxpayers
at a “significant profit.”  AIG is “nearing the conclusion” of talks with regulators
about the proposal, and directors were gathering to vote,
Chairman  Steve Miller  said yesterday at a conference in New
York. Treasury may begin converting its $49 billion preferred
stake in AIG into common stock for sales next year, three people
with knowledge of the discussions said this week.  “We’re working on a transaction where hopefully you’ll
have much greater clarity and a clearly outlined path to
ultimately getting us off the government dole,” Miller said
during the conference, his first public comments since being
named chairman of New York-based AIG in July. He said there was
a “strong possibility of significant profit for taxpayers.”  The U.S. is seeking to dispose of its majority stake in AIG
gained two years ago when it rescued the company with a bailout
that swelled to $182.3 billion. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said in January that AIG, which insured 100,000
companies, municipalities and retirement plans and was
counterparty to the biggest financial firms, was saved to
prevent an “utter collapse” of the economy.  The insurer will probably sell debt within a year after its
restructuring is announced, Miller said in an interview after a
panel discussion at the  conference,  which was sponsored by Dow
Jones.  Credit-Default Swaps  The cost to protect against losses on AIG debt has fallen
this year. Five-year credit-default  swaps  tied to the insurer
have declined to 256 basis points yesterday from 581 basis
points on Dec. 31, according to data provider CMA. The contracts
typically rise as investor confidence deteriorates.  AIG is divesting its two biggest non-U.S. life insurance
divisions, AIA Group Ltd. and American Life Insurance Co., to
pay down its Federal Reserve credit line. MetLife Inc. said this
month that its purchase of Alico, for about $15.5 billion, is
“on track” to be completed on Nov. 1. AIG may hold an initial
public offering for AIA in October.  MetLife shares obtained by AIG in the sale “are an
important asset” that “will be part of the architecture” of
the company’s deal to repay the U.S., Miller said in the
interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hugh Son  in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 