-- AIG Plans Debt Sale Within 12 Months on Path to Independence, Miller Says
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2010-09-29T17:01:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/aig-plans-to-sell-debt-within-a-year-chairman-miller-says.html
American International Group Inc. 
plans its first debt offering since the insurer’s bailout two
years ago as the firm moves toward independence from the U.S.
government, Chairman  Steve Miller  said today.  AIG is “nearing the conclusion” of talks with regulators
about its strategy to repay taxpayers and the insurer’s board is
scheduled to meet today to vote on the plan, Miller said today
at a Dow Jones  private equity  conference.  “We think that with the clarity of what we hope to get
done, we’ll be able to re-access the public markets in six
months to a year,” Miller said in an interview after a panel
discussion, his first public comments since being named chairman
of New York-based AIG in July.  Miller became AIG’s sixth chairman since 2005 when
predecessor  Harvey Golub  stepped down after clashing with Chief
Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche . Miller, 68, has overseen the
bankruptcy of auto-parts supplier Delphi Corp. and helped
Chrysler Corp. return to profitability. He wrote a 2008
autobiography called “The  Turnaround Kid : What I Learned
Rescuing America’s Most Troubled Companies.”  Miller said during his presentation that AIG’s
restructuring plan offers a “strong possibility of significant
profit for taxpayers” and would leave AIG “one of the world’s
largest insurance companies”  The insurer may reach a deal as soon as today to sell two
Japanese life insurance units to Prudential Financial Inc. for
about $4.8 billion in cash, said people with knowledge of the
matter. An agreement would cap two years of talks for the units,
Star Life Insurance Co. and AIG Edison Life Insurance Co.,
between Newark, New Jersey-based Prudential and AIG.  Asset Sales  AIG is also divesting its two biggest non-U.S. life
insurance divisions, AIA Group Ltd. and American Life Insurance
Co., to pay down its Federal Reserve credit line. MetLife Inc.
said this month that its purchase of Alico, for about $15.5
billion, is “on track” to be completed on Nov. 1. AIG may hold
an initial public offering for AIA in October.  MetLife shares obtained in the sale “are an important
asset” that “will be part of the architecture” of AIG’s deal
to repay the U.S., Miller said in the interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hugh Son  in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 