-- AIG Poised to Sell Japan Units to Prudential for $4.8 Billion
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r ,   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2010-09-29T13:39:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/aig-near-sale-of-japan-insurance-units-to-prudential-for-4-8-billion-cash.html
American International Group Inc. 
may reach a deal as soon as today to sell two Japanese life
insurance units to  Prudential Financial Inc.  for about $4.8
billion in cash, said people with knowledge of the matter.  An agreement would cap two years of intermittent talks for
Star Life Insurance Co. and AIG Edison Life Insurance Co.
between Prudential Chief Executive Officer  John Strangfeld  and
New York-based AIG, said the people who declined to be
identified because the negotiations are private. The transaction
under discussion values the units at close to their book value,
a measure of assets minus liabilities.  Strangfeld, 56, has been weighing what to do with excess
capital he amassed last year by  selling stock  and bonds and
divesting a stake in a securities brokerage.  Prudential “is the most overcapitalized life insurance
company that we cover,”  Randy Binner , an analyst who follows U.S
carrierse for FBR Capital Markets, said in the second quarter.
“They’re the classic acquirer.”  Prudential, the second-largest U.S. life insurer, gained
$1.40, or 2.5 percent, to $57.20 at 9:33 a.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. AIG slipped 10 cents to $37.22.  Bob DeFillippo , a spokesman for Newark, New Jersey-based Prudential,
and AIG’s  Mark Herr  declined to comment.  AIG CEO  Robert Benmosche , 66, is disposing of assets as
rival insurers rebuild capital lost during the 2008 financial
crisis. In March, he agreed to sell AIG’s American Life
Insurance Co. to  MetLife Inc. , the biggest U.S. life insurer,
for about $15.5 billion. Benmosche had called off an attempt in
2009 to divest the Star and Edison units.  Bailed Out  The U.S. Treasury Department is in talks with AIG about
winding down its stake in the insurer, according to people
familiar with the discussions. Benmosche has said he first needs
to repay about $19.7 billion in debt on a Federal Reserve  credit
line  before turning to Treasury obligations.  Benmosche was hired in August 2009 to reorganize what was
once the world’s biggest insurer and repay a government rescue
valued at $182.3 billion. AIG is focusing on its property-
casualty business and plans to sell shares in the AIA Group Ltd.
unit in a public offering after the U.K.’s Prudential Plc backed
out of a deal to acquire the business. Prudential Financial
isn’t related to Prudential Plc.  Prudential Financial has had business in Japan for more
than two decades, selling life insurance and fixed and variable
annuities. Last year Prudential  acquired  bankrupt Yamato Life
Insurance Co. to add to its businesses in the country.  “It’s a market we know very well,” Strangfeld said in a
June 9 interview. “We have confidence in our management
there.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Zachary R. Mider  in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net ; 