-- Lukoil CEO May Use UBS Loan for Conoco Buyback, UralSib Says
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2010-09-29T14:40:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/alekperov-s-redruth-pledges-4-5-billion-of-lukoil-shares-to-back-ubs-loan.html
A company linked to  OAO Lukoil ’s
billionaire head  Vagit Alekperov  pledged about $4.47 billion of
stock in the Russian oil producer for a loan, signaling he may
buy back the remainder of ConocoPhillips’s stake, UralSib said.  Redruth Investments Ltd., which is connected to Alekperov,
maintains the right to vote the 77 million American depositary
receipts securing the loan, arranged by UBS AG and a group of
banks, Lukoil said today in a statement, without giving the
amount of the borrowing.  “I think Alekperov is getting ready to buy the rest,”
 Alexei Kokin,  an oil and gas analyst at UralSib Financial Corp.
“It could be he is getting together the money to buy what is on
offer.”  The stake, about 9 percent of Lukoil’s outstanding shares,
was worth $4.47 billion at the closing price in London on Sept.
22, the day Redruth pledged it, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  ConocoPhillips expects to sell its remaining 6.15 percent
of Lukoil stock within six to nine months as it repays debts and
buy backs it own shares, Chief Executive Officer  Jim Mulva  said
on Sept. 27. Lukoil Board Chairman  Valery Grayfer  said the
company will buy back all of the shares, RIA Novosti said
yesterday.  Lukoil bought 7.6 percent of its stock from Conoco for
$3.44 billion in August and with UniCredit Bank AG acquired
almost 5 percent more for $2.4 billion under an option that
expired Sept. 26.  Exchangeable Notes  Lukoil’s finance unit acquired $980 million of notes from
UniCredit that were issued in relation to 17.5 million ADRs,
about 2 percent of the oil company’s stock, the Moscow-based
company said today in a statement. The notes are exchangeable
into the ADRs “under certain circumstances,” Lukoil said,
without elaborating.  Lukoil will buy all of the ADRs from UniCredit, a press
officer for the oil company, who declined to be identified,
citing corporate policy, said today by telephone from Moscow.  The amount of shares pledged by Redruth Investments is
equivalent to the stock still owned by Conoco and 3 percent held
by UniCredit, Kokin said. Alekperov and his deputy,  Leonid Fedun , together own about 30 percent, the company has said.  There is no decision yet on purchasing ConocoPhillips’s
interest, and any decision will depend on the market, the Lukoil
press officer said.  The company plans to use the shares as a financial reserve,
Fedun said on Aug. 31.  Lukoil has the right of first refusal to buy back
ConocoPhillips’s remaining stock, the press official said
yesterday.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Stephen Bierman  in Moscow 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  