-- Ambac Sues Bank of America Over Countrywide Bonds
-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d   a n d   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2010-09-29T20:46:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/ambac-sues-countrywide-over-mortgage-backed-securities.html
Ambac Assurance Corp. sued  Bank of
America Corp.  over $16.7 billion of mortgage-backed securities,
saying the bank’s Countrywide Financial Corp. unit fraudulently
induced Ambac to insure bonds backed by improperly made loans.  Ambac  found that 97 percent of 6,533 loans it reviewed
across 12 securitizations sponsored by Countrywide didn’t
conform to the lender’s underwriting guidelines, according to
the complaint filed yesterday in New York state Supreme Court.
Many of the loans were made to borrowers with limited or no
ability to meet their payment obligations, Ambac said.  The lawsuit follows negotiations between Bank of America,
which acquired Countrywide in 2008, and Ambac over mounting
losses caused by loans made during the early 2000s as U.S.
housing prices soared. Ambac has paid $466 million in claims
from more than 35,000 Countrywide home-equity loans that have
defaulted or been charged off, according to the lawsuit.  “Bank of America probably didn’t settle because they
didn’t want to swallow the amount of money that it’s going to
take to satisfy Ambac,” said  Alan White , a law professor at
Valparaiso University who specializes in housing industry
issues. “Nobody wants to be left holding the bag.”  Shirley Norton,  a spokeswoman for the Charlotte, North
Carolina-based lender, and Ambac spokesman  Pete Poillon ,
declined to comment on the lawsuit.  Repurchase of Billions  Repurchases of home loans from buyers and insurers of
mortgage securities have already cost the four biggest U.S.
lenders $9.8 billion, according to Credit Suisse Group AG. Bank
of America has said it faces $11.1 billion of unresolved claims.  MBIA Insurance said it paid more than $459 million in
claims stemming from losses on Countrywide-sponsored mortgage-
backed bonds, according to a 2008 lawsuit in New York State
Supreme Court.  The Ambac case involves 12  Countrywide-sponsored  pools of
home loans that were created from 2004 to 2006, including nine
involving home equity lines of credit and three that involve
fixed-amount second-lien loans.  Bank of America should repurchase as much as $20 billion in
home loans that were based on wrong or missing information, the
Association of Financial Guaranty Insurers said in a Sept. 2
letter to Bank of America Chief Executive Officer  Brian Moynihan . More than half of the soured home-equity credit lines
and residential mortgages created from 2005 through 2007 that
insurers examined were candidates for repurchase, the group
said.  Countrywide Losses  Bank of America has reported $7.6 billion in losses from
home-equity loans over the past four quarters, stemming from
slumping U.S. home prices. Losses related to Countrywide loans,
including repurchase requests, will continue through mid-2012,
Moynihan said at a Sept. 14 investor conference. Bank of America
in 2008 acquired Countrywide, the largest U.S. home lender at
the time.  “They’re manageable numbers, not pleasant numbers, but
manageable numbers,” Moynihan said.  Moynihan and other Bank of America officials have said the
bank must review each loan to verify whether it met company
guidelines. That process has delayed Ambac’s demands that Bank
of America repurchase the loans, causing a breach of contract,
according to the lawsuit.  Ambac  said in its complaints that it’s “entitled to
redress for Countrywide’s massive fraud and pervasive and
material breaches, including damages sufficient to place Ambac
in the same position it would have been in had it never insured
the transactions.”  The case is Ambac Assurance Corp. v. Countrywide Home Loans
Inc., 651612/2010, New York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Karen Freifeld  in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net 
 David Mildenberg  in Charlotte at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella in New York at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net ;
Alec McCabe at 
 amccabe@bloomberg.net . 