-- Anglo Irish Costs Climb as Ghost Towns Haunt Ireland
-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 2010-09-30T06:32:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/anglo-irish-rescue-costs-increase-after-ghost-towns-spread-across-ireland.html
As Ireland tallies the bill for
rescuing  Anglo Irish Bank Corp. , the unfinished houses on 600
ghost estates are a reminder of how a founding member of the
euro became home to the region’s biggest banking crisis.  Anglo Irish, once the biggest lender to property developers,
may require as much as 6.4 billion euros ($8.7 billion) of
additional capital, the country’s  central bank  said today in a
statement. The government seized Anglo Irish in 2009 and already
poured 22.9 billion euros into the Dublin-based bank.  “The property market went wild,” said Alan Mee, an
architect in the capital and lecturer at  University College
Dublin.  “Now we are left with the consequences.”  The number of empty Irish homes surged 30 percent to
345,000 in the three years through 2009, as a decade-long
construction boom collapsed and the economy shrank about 15
percent. While the government plans to bulldoze some houses,
it’s still struggling with the debts racked up by the lenders
that financed them, rattling credit markets across Europe. The
extra  yield  investors demand to hold 10-year Irish debt over
equivalent German bunds hit a record 449 basis points this week.  “Ireland remains the critical focus,” said  Bill Blain ,
co-head of fixed income at Matrix Corporate Capital LLP, an
investment bank in London. “As the cost escalates, Irish
credibility drains down the gutter.”  Allied Irish  The country’s central bank said Anglo Irish may require
another 5 billion euros if losses widen. Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  also said today that the government may take a majority
stake in Allied Irish Banks Plc, the nation’s second-biggest
bank, because of the company’s capital shortfall.  The government already has injected about 33 billion euros
into five banks, more than the 31 billion euros the government
expects to collect in taxes for this year. Anger is mounting in
a country that has endured income tax increases and a cut to
state workers’ pay of 13 percent.  Irish police yesterday arrested a 41-year-old man following
damage to the front gates of the parliament building in Dublin
by a truck. The cement mixer had “toxic bank” painted on it in
red and white.  “The country is in bankruptcy to some extent, but of
course there’s plenty of money at the top,” said Des Bonass, 64,
member of the Unite labor union, standing in front of parliament.
“The money going into Anglo Irish is a disgrace. The same
activity and money should be going into jobs rather than saving
banks.”  Price of Land  The price of land for development rose to more than 58,400
euros a hectare in 2006, the highest in Europe, according to the
 National Institute for Regional and Spatial Analysis , citing
data from property agents  Savills Plc.   In Sandyford, the Dublin suburb where architect Mee tours
unfinished buildings, a tower lies incomplete. A second building
is covered by a fraying tarpaulin depicting imaginary residents
drinking cocktails on non-existent balconies.  Planning Minister Ciaran Cuffe, who declined to be
interviewed for this story, said this month that he is
“trawling through” a survey of ghost estates.  They may be used to attract companies to areas by providing
them with houses for employees, or handed over to universities
or patients leaving hospitals, he said. Others simply may be
leveled in what he referred to in April as “selective
demolitions.” The government hasn’t decided what buildings may
be flattened.  ‘Mass Psychology’  “The banks got into trouble because they got caught up in
the mass psychology of an unprecedented property bubble,” Irish
central bank Governor  Patrick Honohan , 61, said in a speech to a
business lobby group this week. “There is no disputing the fact
that the trouble of the banks is directly attributable to their
having lent too much for investment in land and property.”  About 553,000 houses were built in the 10 years through
2005 in the country of 4 million people, as homebuilding
expanded at twice the pace of the rest of Europe, according to
the institute for regional analysis.  Some will end up in the control of National Asset
Management Agency, the body set up by the government to absorb
risky loans. If borrowers can’t pay, the agency can take control
of the real estate. Some may be demolished,  Brendan McDonagh ,
chief executive officer of NAMA, said in April.  “The evidence says the banks were reckless, but also
unaware of the impacts of unrestricted and unsustainable
building,” said Mee. “It’s not all negative. Developing
communities onto ill-advised development decisions will need
lots of builders and designers, for example.”  Longford Estate  In Longford, a county along the Shannon River in rural
central Ireland, there’s enough housing supply to last 10 years
even if demand returned to what it was before the peak,
according to the spatial institute.  At one such estate, rubble is strewn around the houses and
lampposts on the estate are still without their lights.  “The reality was the market was so inflated, it
constituted an enormous bubble that inevitably would pop,” said
 Rob Kitchin , director at the institute, which was founded in
2001 and studies how land is used. “And pop it did.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dara Doyle at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  