-- Angola Cuts Economic Growth Forecasts For The Second Time in Two Months
-- B y   C a n d i d o   M e n d e s
-- 2010-09-29T12:40:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/angola-crediting-imf-sees-progress-on-stabilizing-economy-after-crisis.html
Angola, Africa’s third-largest oil
producer, has cut its economic growth forecast for the second
time in two months as government debt arrears delay construction
work, the Finance Ministry said.  The economy will expand between 5 and 6 percent this year,
the ministry said in a  letter  addressed to the International
Monetary Fund, dated Aug. 27 and published on the IMF’s website.
The government on Aug. 3 reduced the forecast to 6.7 percent
from 9.7 percent.  “Economic activity, particularly of the non-oil sector, is
still constrained by the outstanding domestic arrears,” the
ministry said.  Angola, which has secured a $1.3 billion loan from the IMF,
is repaying arrears to construction companies helping to rebuild
infrastructure following the end of a 27-year civil war in 2002.
The arrears have prevented companies from paying contractors and
suppliers and forced them to slow reconstruction. By Aug. 20,
the state had repaid $1.28 billion of about $6.8 billion in
debt.  The government plans to pay 60 percent of its arrears by
the end of this year, the Finance Ministry said.  The country is making “significant” progress in
tightening public spending and rebuilding foreign currency
holdings, the ministry said.  IMF Loan  The Washington-based IMF approved a $353 million
disbursement to Angola on Sept. 24, after reviewing the
government’s policies, including efforts to reduce economic
vulnerability to volatile oil prices. It sought help from the
IMF after crude prices plunged in late 2008 and 2009.  Oil reached a high of $147.27 a barrel on July 11, 2008.
Crude futures contracts for November delivery traded at $76.32
today in New York.  Petroleum accounts for about 95 percent of Angola’s export
revenue and 60 percent of gross domestic product, according to
the Economist Intelligence Unit. The country has Africa’s third-
richest oil reserves and was the continent’s No. 3 crude
producer last year after Nigeria and Algeria, according to BP
Plc’s Statistical Review of World Energy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Candido Mendes  in Luanda, Angola at 
 cmendes6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 