-- AOL Tries to Restore Clout With Three Acquisitions in One Day
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   A r i   L e v y
-- 2010-09-29T20:17:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/aol-tries-to-restore-clout-with-techcrunch-two-other-dot-com-acquisitions.html
AOL Inc. , the once-dominant
Internet service provider that saw its market value and user
base dwindle over a decade, may restore lost relevance after
yesterday’s purchase of TechCrunch Inc. and two other startups.  Chief Executive Officer  Tim Armstrong  appeared on stage
during a tech industry conference in San Francisco to announce
the purchase of  TechCrunch , an influential news blog and the
host of the event. AOL paid about $25 million, according to two
people familiar with the matter, who asked not to be identified
because the terms weren’t made public. The company also bought
5min Media, a network of online videos, and Thing Labs Inc., a
creator of social-networking tools.  Armstrong, who took over AOL last year and spun it off from
 Time Warner Inc. , is trying to revive growth after paring the
business. He sold the social network Bebo and  instant-messaging
service ICQ  because they failed to attract enough users. Even
during yesterday’s acquisition spree, AOL announced plans to
close another of its sites, the news aggregator Propeller.com.
The moves may pay off, said Silicon Valley investor  Ron Conway .  “Tim Armstrong and his new team are making decisions to
shape the next generation of AOL in content and social media,
and it bodes well for the company,”  Conway , who founded venture
fund SV Angel, said in an e-mail.  Management Team  AOL’s CEO, a former Google Inc. executive, is relying on
people he plucked from prominent technology companies to lead
acquisitions. Armstrong poached  David Eun  from Google in
February. Last year, he named  Brad Garlinghouse , a veteran of
Yahoo! Inc., to head AOL’s West Coast office.  “We’re here, we’re still looking, and we want to be very
aggressive but smart in the space,” Eun, AOL’s president of
media, said in an interview. “We have a lot of cash to make
whatever smart acquisitions we need to make.”  AOL, based in New York, rose $1.11, or 4.6 percent, to
$25.26 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading .
The shares have gained 8.5 percent this year.  David Joyce , an analyst with Miller Tabak & Co. in New
York, raised his recommendation on the stock to “buy” today,
saying the shares may reach $32.  “AOL’s recent spurt of activity clearly demonstrates a
move to the offensive,” Joyce wrote in a note.  Among the acquisitions, TechCrunch may do the most to
restore AOL’s luster as Web users spend more time on competing
sites, such as Facebook Inc. and Twitter Inc. TechCrunch will
become part of the AOL Technology Network “while retaining
their editorial independence,” AOL said yesterday.  Top Three  In August, TechCrunch sites had 3.8 million unique
visitors, the third-highest among technology blogs, according to
Reston, Virginia-based data tracker ComScore Inc. Engadget, also
part of AOL, is the top tech blog, with 7.5 million visitors.
It’s followed by Gizmodo, a site owned by Gawker Media, with 6.5
million. AOL, then part of  Time Warner , purchased Engadget’s
parent company, Weblogs Inc., in 2005.  5min Media gives AOL a library of more than 200,000 videos,
covering topics such as fashion, cooking and fitness. Thing
Labs, meanwhile, makes the Brizzly line of social software. The
programs let users create and share content online. AOL didn’t
disclose terms of the acquisitions.  TechCrunch brings AOL the “top brand in the tech
influencer community,” said Garlinghouse, who serves as
president of consumer applications. “They have been
trailblazers in thinking about the multimedia world.”  Time to Sell  TechCrunch was founded in 2005 by  Michael Arrington , who
created the blog from his home in Atherton, California, to share
news about emerging Internet companies. The company is now based
in San Francisco and has more than 40 employees, according to
its website. In addition to publishing an assortment of
technology blogs, TechCrunch hosts conferences, including
TechCrunch Disrupt, which is going on now in San Francisco.  Becoming part of  AOL  will help TechCrunch alleviate some of
the challenges of its rapid growth, Arrington said.  “It was time for us either to start investing a lot more
money in things like technology and marketing -- which probably
meant raising a venture round -- or to simply sell and partner
with somebody who could do that,” he said in an interview.
“AOL has a very robust, large blog network that shows they have
the software side nailed. So it solves a real problem for us
from the technology side.”  TechCrunch expects sales of $10 million in 2010. The
company will have a profit of about $3.5 million, according to a
person familiar with its finances.  ‘Second Attempt’  Arrington plans to remain at AOL for at least three years
after the  acquisition . “There are incentives for me and the
team to stay,” he said.  Besides gaining a bigger pool of readers and advertisers,
AOL picked up products and talent that could help foster
communities of online users, said Shahid Khan, an analyst at New
York-based digital media consulting firm  MediaMorph . Bebo, the
social-networking site that AOL sold to private investors
earlier this year, failed to keep up with the growth of Facebook
and other social sites, Khan said.  “This is their second attempt at making social media part
of their overall strategy,” Khan said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Douglas MacMillan  in San Francisco at 
 Dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
 Ari Levy  in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 