-- Harrisburg, Pennsylvania Council Decides to Retain Bankruptcy Lawyers
-- B y   D u n s t a n   M c N i c h o l
-- 2010-09-29T18:45:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/harrisburg-hires-lawyers-as-pennsylvania-city-considers-seeking-bankruptcy.html
Pennsylvania ’s capital city of
Harrisburg, faced with $43 million in bond payments due before
year-end, rejected a state-funded financial adviser and plans to
seek advice on entering bankruptcy court protection.  The City Council’s 5-2 vote last night to hire bankruptcy
advisers resisted a personal plea from first-year Mayor  Linda Thompson . Harrisburg needed state aid two weeks earlier to avoid
becoming the second-largest borrower to default on a general-
obligation bond this year.  “The whole world is watching Harrisburg,” Thompson said
in a 40-minute speech to the council, where she sat until
becoming mayor in January. “Our bondholders are looking to make
us the poster child of the world to municipalities in financial
difficulties. And they don’t plan on losing.”  Harrisburg, with 47,000 residents, has missed about $8
million in debt-service payments this year on more than $200
million of bonds issued in connection with a trash-to-energy
incinerator. The seat of the sixth most-populous U.S. state’s
government faces lawsuits over the debts from its home county of
Dauphin and  Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp. , a bond insurer.  Councilor  Brad Koplinski , who proposed considering
bankruptcy and voted in favor of hiring advisers, said it would
take a “devastating tax increase” to cover the debts.  Bankruptcy Not Fatal  “I’m not going to have that $210 million payment on the
backs of taxpayers,” he said in an interview after the vote.
“Bankruptcy, I don’t think, would kill our city. I think the
tax increases would kill our city.”  Council President  Gloria Martin-Roberts  said she feared
that bankruptcy would prompt retaliation from Hamilton, Bermuda-
based Assured Guaranty and holders of the debt.  “I’m very concerned that bondholders are going to get sick
and tired of what they think is a shell game, and lower the boom
on us,” said Martin-Roberts, who voted against the proposal to
hire bankruptcy advisers.  “Assured Guaranty is probably a little less assured today
than they were a little earlier in the day,”  Chuck Ardo , a
Thompson spokesman, said after the vote.  The company is “disappointed” with last night’s vote,
 Betsy Castenir , an Assured spokeswoman, said by e-mail. The
company backs some of the debt connected with the incinerator,
owned by the independent Harrisburg Authority.  ‘Inability’ to Cooperate  “The City Council has once again demonstrated its
inability to work with the mayor to take concrete steps to
develop a restructuring plan that allows the city and the
authority to meet their obligations to bondholders, AGM and the
county,” Castenir said.  Should Harrisburg seek bankruptcy, it would be only the
second community in the state to do so. Westfall Township, in
northeastern Pennsylvania’s Pike County, entered Chapter 9 court
protection last year in the face of a $20 million legal
judgment, about 20 times the town’s annual budget. The case was
resolved earlier this year.  Under the resolution voted on in Harrisburg, the city may
seek state oversight and technical assistance from Pennsylvania
in lieu of bankruptcy, under the so-called Act 47 program set up
to help financially troubled communities regain stability.  In February, Harrisburg’s credit rating was cut to B2, five
levels below investment grade, by Moody’s Investors Service. The
company said the city’s strategy for managing the incinerator
debt was “weak” and raised prospects for default. The firm no
longer rates Harrisburg debt, according to spokesman  John Cline .  Accelerated State Aid  The city notified bondholders Aug. 30 that it didn’t have
the funds to make $3.3 million in payments due Sept. 15 on its
1997 Series D and 1997 Series F bonds. The payments were made
after Governor  Ed Rendell  accelerated $3.6 million in state aid.  For the third time this year, the city won’t be able to
make a $637,500 installment payment due Oct. 1 on a loan from
 Covanta Holding Corp.  of Fairfield, New Jersey, Thompson said in
an interview. Covanta runs the city incinerator.  Meanwhile,  Automatic Data Processing Inc.  of Roseland, New
Jersey, the city’s payroll processor, agreed to produce
paychecks even though it hasn’t been paid $13,000 for prior
work, the mayor said. That averted the prospect that Harrisburg
workers won’t be paid today, Thompson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dunstan McNichol  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 dmcnichol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  