-- Asian Private Banks' Employee Raids Are Straining `Credibility,' UBS Says
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2010-09-30T01:17:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/asian-private-banker-attrition-straining-credibility-ubs-says.html
Private banks’ habit of raiding
each other for top employees in Asia has strained relations with
their clients, said  UBS AG ’s vice chairman of wealth management.  “As an institution, in a way, you lose credibility,”
Singapore-based  Carlo Grigioni  said at a conference in Singapore
yesterday. “The clients at the end of the day are the ones who
suffer and pay for it and are actually increasingly questioning
our promises of creating that partnership between the
institution and the client.”  Asia’s growing pool of millionaires has spurred banks from
 Standard Chartered Plc  to Morgan Stanley to step up hiring of
private bankers there, raising concerns about a shortage of
personnel and staff attrition. Wealth in the Asia-Pacific region
outside Japan is expected to grow at twice the global rate, the
Boston Consulting Group said in June.  Private banks can address the problem through proper
training and developing a strong internal culture,  Douglas Wurth ,
chief executive officer for international private banking at New
York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co ., said at the same conference.  “Clients are telling us, ‘we are tired of the merry-go-
round,’” he said.  In one of the biggest instances of employee poaching, RBS
Coutts Bank Ltd. lost more than a third of its Singapore staff
to rival BSI Bank last year. JPMorgan, which employs 400 people
in Asia, this week said it plans to grow the number of client
advisers in the region by 40 percent this year and next.  Banks need to show restraint and maintain focus on
individuals rather than being tempted by headhunting firms
pitching bankers that can bring multiple people from a rival
firm, according to Wurth.  The increased competition for Asia’s wealth has led to a
shortage of qualified private bankers in Singapore and turnover
among advisers in search of bigger paychecks worries clients
concerned about privacy,  Jimmy Lee , the regional head of Credit
Suisse Group AG’s Clariden Leu unit, said in June.  “The ethical standards around these issues need to be
improved,” said Grigioni, who is also the Asia-Pacific head of
Zurich-based UBS’s ultra high net worth segment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joyce Koh  in Singapore at   jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  