-- U.S., European Stocks Drop on Debt Concern; Copper, Gold Rally
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   P a u l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2010-09-29T20:38:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/asian-stocks-rise-to-five-month-high-japanese-bonds-rally-shinsei-gains.html
Stocks fell in the U.S. and Europe
amid concern the government debt crisis is worsening in nations
such as Ireland and Spain. The dollar weakened and gold touched
a record on bets the Federal Reserve will buy more debt.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  lost 0.5 percent and the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slumped 0.3 percent as of 4 p.m. in
New York. The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  rallied 1 percent to a
27-month high and copper topped $8,000 a metric ton for the
first time since April as China’s manufacturing accelerated. The
 Dollar Index  slid to an eight-month low of 78.616.  Spain’s top credit rating at Moody’s Investors Service is
at risk as the nation struggles to emerge from recession and
reduce its budget deficit, according to a Bloomberg News survey.
Workers in the nation interrupted transportation and broadcasts
in a general strike today to protest government spending cuts.
Ireland is due to announce the cost of bailing out state-owned
lender Anglo Irish Bank Corp. tomorrow.  “The biggest single danger remains Europe,” Mark Grant,
managing director at Southwest Securities Inc. in Fort
Lauderdale, Florida, said in a note to institutional clients.
“The question remains just how much of the austerity measures
people will actually take before either political or social
unrest demands a change in policies or a refusal to bend to the
EU dictates.”  JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Wells Fargo & Co. paced losses as
financial companies in the S&P 500 retreated 0.8 percent, the
second-biggest drop among 10 industries. The group fell the  most 
in the Stoxx Europe 600.  H&M Tumbles  HSBC Holdings Plc, Europe’s biggest bank, fell 1.6 percent
in London, and BNP Paribas SA, France’s largest lender, lost 2.4
percent in Paris.  Hennes & Mauritz AB  led a selloff in the
region’s retailers, tumbling 6.5 percent after profit missed
estimates.  BP Plc  gained 3.9 percent after the Associated Press
cited  Steve Scalise , a Louisiana Republican Congressman, as
saying a possible settlement with the energy company over the
Gulf of Mexico spill was under discussion. A U.S. Justice
Department official said no talks were under way.  BP’s $3.5 billion of bonds, its first debt sale since a rig
explosion in April, rose on their first day of trading,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The S&P 500 drifted between gains and losses after a 0.5
percent advance yesterday. The gauge has rallied 9.1 percent
since the end of August, poised for its best month since April
2009 and its biggest September rally since 1939.  HP Beats Estimates  Hewlett-Packard Co. advanced 2.2 percent today in the U.S.
after the world’s largest computer maker predicted earnings and
sales that exceeded estimates and said it will return cash to
shareholders.  The  MSCI China Index  advanced 1.5 percent, helping lead
gains among equity gauges in major emerging markets, after  a
purchasing managers’ index  released today by HSBC Holdings Plc
and Markit Economics rose to the highest level in five months.
Developing-nation currencies appreciated, led by a 0.9 percent
gain in the Turkish lira and an advance in the Taiwan dollar to
its strongest level versus the U.S. currency since August 2008.  China currency legislation will pass the U.S. House today
with bipartisan support, the measure’s sponsors said after a
committee approved the bill for consideration. The vote later
today in Washington will be the first for the House on a bill
aimed at prodding China to raise the value of its currency after
years of debating the issue.  Copper, Gold, Silver  Copper for delivery in three months gained 1.4 percent to
$8,064 a metric ton on the London Metal Exchange. China is the
world’s largest buyer of copper. Crude oil futures for November
delivery rallied 2.3 percent to $77.90 a barrel. Gold futures
rose to a record $1,314.80 an ounce, and silver climbed above
$22 an ounce for the first time since 1980.  Spanish 10-year bond yields rose 2 basis points to 4.20
percent and the yield premium relative to benchmark German
bunds, known as the yield spread, widened to 196 basis points,
after earlier increasing to the widest since July 15. The Irish-
German spread retreated after earlier widening to a record 454
basis points, or 4.54 percentage points.  Five of eight money managers surveyed by Bloomberg
predicted Spain’s credit rating at Moody’s would be reduced by
one step to Aa1, with the rest forecasting a two-level cut to
Aa2. The decision may come this week after the New York-based
rating company placed the nation’s debt on review for a possible
downgrade on June 30, saying it would conclude the analysis
within three months. The managers oversee about $700 billion
between them.  Spanish Strikes  Spain’s two biggest unions said 72 percent of workers
joined the first general strike in eight years, including 65
percent in the energy sector and 82 percent in the airline
industry, according to Jose Javier Cubillo of the UGT union.
Labor Minister  Celestino Corbacho  said 7.5 percent of state
workers joined the strike this morning.  More than 100,000 protesters descended on Brussels before a
meeting between union members and European Commission President
 Jose Barroso , organizers said. In Athens, rail, communications
and port workers struck. Police in Dublin made an arrest after a
truck damaged the front gates of the parliament building.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael P. Regan  in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Armstrong  in London at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 