-- Asia's Sukuk Sales Lag Behind Persian Gulf Plans by 60%: Islamic Finance
-- B y   K h a l i d   Q a y u m   a n d   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2010-09-29T08:15:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/asia-s-sukuk-sales-lag-behind-persian-gulf-plans-by-60-islamic-finance.html
Asian issuers plan to sell $2.1
billion of Islamic debt in the fourth quarter, about 60 percent
less than those announced in the Persian Gulf, where companies
are seeking funds after Dubai World’s debt restructuring.  The dearth of issuance from Asia signals the Persian Gulf
will overtake the region for the first time since the last
quarter of 2009 with about $5.5 billion in offerings in the
final three months, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Ringgit-denominated Islamic debt sales in Malaysia, the
world’s largest sukuk market, have dropped 28 percent to 18.7
billion ringgit ($6.1 billion) this year as companies cut
investment following a recession in 2009 and Dubai’s struggle to
repay debt pushed up borrowing costs. Konsortium Lebuhraya
Utara-Timur (KL) Sdn., a Malaysian toll-road operator, plans to
offer as much as 780 million ringgit of sukuk next month and
 Kencana Petroleum Bhd. , an oil and gas contractor in Kuala
Lumpur, will raise 250 million ringgit this year.  “Sanity with regards to the financial market only came
about very recently,” Badlisyah  Abdul Ghani , chief executive of
CIMB Islamic Bank Bhd. in Kuala Lumpur, said in an interview
yesterday. Discussions between companies and banks in Asia have
“not reached the level where they start issuing,” he said.  The market will be boosted by some unannounced sales before
year-end after the government started a 230 billion-ringgit
five-year development plan on June 10, Badlisyah said. CIMB is
arranging as much as $2 billion of Malaysian Islamic debt sales
for the fourth quarter, he said, declining to give details.  ‘Some Clarity’  “The Malaysian market was waiting over the last few months
to see the direction of the new economic model,” he said. “Now
that there is some clarity, corporates plan to move forward.”  Konsortium Lebuhraya plans to offer the notes to replace
existing debt as part of its restructuring program, the company
said in an e-mail yesterday. Kencana Petroleum said April 30 it
hired AmInvestment Bank Bhd. as adviser for its sale.  Global sales of sukuk, which comply with the religion’s ban
on interest by paying asset-based returns, have fallen 23
percent to $10.9 billion this year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Issuance totaled $20.2 billion last year, up from
$14.1 billion in 2008 and reached a record $31 billion in 2007.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Dubai’s dollar
sukuk rather than Malaysia’s 3.928 percent Islamic note due June
2015 has narrowed 40 basis points to 373 this month, according
prices from the Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. The widest gap
was 443 on July 21. State-controlled holding company Dubai World
reached an agreement earlier this month with creditors to change
terms on $24.9 billion of debt.  Narrowing Spread  The spread between the average yield for global sukuk and
the London interbank offered rate has narrowed 68 basis points
to 376 since the end of June, according to the  HSBC/Dubai US
Dollar Sukuk Index . The difference was at 560, or 5.6 percentage
points, on Nov. 30, the index shows.  Qatar Islamic Bank SAQ may sell $750 million of notes in
the second half, its first dollar sukuk. Nakheel PJSC, a
property unit of Dubai World, may issue as much as $3.2 billion
of five-year sukuk to pay contractors as part of its debt
restructuring, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said in a report Aug. 26.  Yields of Malaysia’s 3.928 percent Islamic note due June
2015 fell one basis point to 2.62 percent today and have dropped
89 basis points since the end of June, RBS prices show.  Shariah-compliant bonds returned 5 percent this quarter,
according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index , while
debt in developing markets gained 7.7 percent, JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s  EMBI Global Diversified Index  shows.  Indonesia Delays  Indonesia delayed an overseas sale of sukuk this year until
the first half of 2011,  Rahmat Waluyanto , director general of
the finance ministry’s debt management office, said on Aug. 18.  Local Islamic bond auctions have been undersubscribed
because investors have been demanding higher yields to
compensate for low trading volumes. On July 13, the government
sold 246 billion rupiah ($27.5 million) of sukuk, less than the
1 trillion rupiah targeted. While it sold 2030 debt at a yield
of 9.94 percent, the highest return sought was 10.75 percent.  “The government will continue to add to the number of
sukuk issuances to further boost the liquidity in the secondary
market,” Waluyanto said in a text message response to questions
yesterday. The government may sell 2 trillion rupiah of Islamic
bonds to the religious ministry through a private placement in
October, he said in Jakarta yesterday.  Rafael Martinez Dalmau , head of Shariah compliant portfolio
management at BNP Paribas Investment Partners in Singapore, said
in an e-mail yesterday that he is optimistic the amount of sukuk
offerings in Asia will increase next year.  “For the remainder of this year, I don’t expect a large
amount of issuance out of Asia, but the growth trend remains
unabated,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Khalid Qayum  in Singapore 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net .
 Soraya Permatasari  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net . 