-- ASX Ltd. Chief Executive Robert Elstone to Step Down as Competition Looms
-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 2010-09-29T06:31:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/asx-chief-executive-officer-robert-elstone-to-leave-as-competition-looms.html
ASX Ltd. Chief Executive Officer
 Robert Elstone  will step down after more than four years at the
helm of Australia’s main stock-exchange operator.  Elstone, who will not seek to renew his contract when it
ends on July 11, 2011, leaves at a time when regulatory and
competitive challenges loom for the company. ASX Chairman  David Gonski  told shareholders at the company’s annual meeting today
in Sydney that ASX will consider internal and external
candidates to replace Elstone, who didn’t disclose his plans for
the future.  “It’s been a reasonably challenging time for ASX,” said
Adelaide-based  Rob Patterson , who helps oversee $3.5 billion at
Argo Investments Ltd., which owns ASX shares. “The company has
had to manage itself toward increased competition, as well as a
changed relationship with the national regulator, and Elstone
has done that pretty well.”  The Australian Securities and Investments Commission took
over oversight of real-time trading on domestic licensed markets
from ASX on Aug. 1 as part of government attempts to pave the
way for competitors that might help Australia attract more
foreign investment.  ASX  faces competition from companies such as Chi-X Global
Inc., an electronic-trading-platform that won preliminary
approval this year to become Australia’s first rival to the
dominant exchange operator.  Chi-X Threat  ASX shares dropped 1.1 percent to A$33.16 at the 4:10 p.m.
close of trading in Sydney. The shares, which peaked at A$60.59
on Dec. 28, 2007, now trade close to the level when Elstone took
the helm in mid-2006.  The stock, which tumbled 45 percent in 2008 as trading
activity dried up in the wake of the global financial crisis,
rallied 4.9 percent in 2009 as the appetite for capital raisings
improved. That gain was wiped out this year as investors weighed
the  earnings risk  from increased competition from companies such
as Chi-X.  ASX’s share-price performance this year is “purely down to
competition,” according to  Chris Weston , a Melbourne-based
institutional dealer at IG Markets. “We should see a raft of
IPOs coming through now, and that should help them out. Elstone
is leaving the company in pretty good shape.”  The 57-year-old Elstone became chief executive after ASX’s
2006 acquisition of SFE Corp., a futures exchange that he
previously headed.  ASX’s chief executive officer at the time of the takeover,
 Tony D’Aloisio , was initially charged with leading the new
entity. D’Aloisio, currently ASIC’s chairman, was replaced by
Elstone after SFE shareholders threatened to reject the takeover
unless he was given the top job.  Trading Buoyant  ASX  posted 13 percent growth in second-half profit last
month as trading accelerated on the back of a recovering global
economy. The company said trading remained buoyant this year,
even as Europe’s sovereign debt crisis and China’s steps to curb
property-price growth fueled doubt about the strength and pace
of the recovery.  The exchange operator’s performance was “resilient” in an
environment that “remained challenging despite improved
conditions following the global financial crisis,” Elstone said
in a statement accompanying the results on Aug. 19.  “By the time I step down, I will have had stewardship of
ASX for five years, in addition to my six years earlier at the
helm of the former SFE,” Elstone said in his address at today’s
meeting. “In my view, a new era for ASX should be accompanied
by a new ASX leadership.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey in Hong Kong at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 