-- Mauritius Commercial Bank Profit Falls as Foreign-Exchange Revenue Drops
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2010-09-29T15:13:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/mauritius-commercial-bank-profit-falls-as-foreign-exchange-revenue-drops.html
Mauritius Commercial Bank , the
Indian Ocean island nation’s biggest lender by market value,
said full-year profit slumped 14 percent as revenue from
currency trading declined amid “tough market conditions.”  Net income fell to 3.41 billion rupees ($112 million) in
the 12 months through June, from 3.96 billion rupees a year
earlier, the Port Louis-based bank said in an e-mailed statement
today. Total revenue dropped 10 percent to 9.32 billion rupees.  The financial year was “characterized by a highly demanding
economic environment as well as sub-optimal conditions in the
capital, foreign exchange and money markets,” the company said.  Earnings from foreign-exchange trading dropped by 380
million rupees, the company said, without providing more
specific figures. The Mauritian rupee weakened 5.9 percent
against the dollar and 10 percent against the rupee in the first
half of this year.  “Overall demand for forex has been lower than in previous
years, hence lower net income in this segment,” said Imrith
Ramtohul, head of investment at Mauritius Union Assurance Co.,
which owns 3.6 percent of Mauritius Commercial.  During the current financial year, the bank expects profit
“to recover from current levels with the MCB remaining well
positioned to benefit from future economic upturn,” it said.  Economic Program  In August, Finance Minister  Pravind Jugnauth  announced a 12
billion-rupee plan to help the Mauritian economy recover from
the euro debt crisis. A weaker euro and an economic crisis in
many of Mauritius’s main markets in Europe are expected to dent
exports and tourism revenue.  “The recently announced policy measures and reform
programme can, if applied in a pragmatic and sustained manner,
stimulate demand in the local economy and improve private sector
investment levels,” Mauritius Commercial Chief Executive Officer
Pierre-Guy Noel said in an e-mailed statement.  Shares in Mauritius Commercial rose 1 rupee, or 0.7
percent, to 144 rupees at the 1.30 p.m. close in Port Louis. The
stock has risen 2.9 percent so far this year, underperforming a
6.9 percent rise in the benchmark  Semdex index  over the same
period.  The share is currently trading on a price earnings ratio of
10 times, representing a 12 percent discount to the market, CIM
Stockbrokers said in an e-mailed statement today. The Port
Louis-based brokerage has a “buy” recommendation on the stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kamlesh Bhuckory  in Port Louis via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 