-- Australian Commercial Property Deals Are on the Rise on Growth, CBRE Says
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2010-09-29T02:15:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/australian-commercial-property-deals-are-on-the-rise-on-growth-cbre-says.html
Australian commercial property
transactions are climbing as the nation’s economic growth draws
investors seeking income and capital growth,  CB Richard Ellis
Group Inc.  said.  About A$2.6 billion ($2.5 billion) of properties changed
hands in the third quarter, 75 percent more than a year earlier,
the world’s largest commercial real-estate broker said in an e-
mailed statement today. Office properties accounted for about 70
percent of the transactions, when on average they make up 50
percent, it said.  “This type of stock is ready to sell, with a large number
of new office buildings featuring long leases and attractive
depreciation benefits available for incoming investors,” Kevin
Stanley, executive director for global research and consulting
at CBRE, said in the statement. Investors are drawn by the
“bright prospects for income and capital growth in the office
sector” driven by recent employment growth, he said.  Australian job growth exceeded forecasts in August, with
employers adding 30,900 workers, sending the unemployment rate
down to 5.1 percent, the lowest since January 2009.  While the gain in property transactions hasn’t pushed rents
up yet, the increase in vacancy rates in major markets has
slowed, Stanley said.  Industrial property deals accounted for 23 percent of
third-quarter sales, and retail for 7 percent, CBRE said.
Overseas investors purchased 42 percent of the properties up for
sale in the quarter and 36 percent in the year to date,
according to CBRE. On average they account for about 15 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nichola Saminather  in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  