-- Telstra, APA Sell Longer-Term Bonds on Australia Demand for Non-Bank Debt
-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 2010-09-29T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/australia-non-financial-companies-selling-most-bonds-locally-in-four-years.html
Australian non-financial companies
are selling the most bonds locally in four years while extending
maturities as investors seeking alternatives to bank debt become
increasingly willing to buy longer-dated notes.  Mirvac Group ,  APA Group  and  Telstra Corp.  are among firms
that raised A$3.7 billion ($3.6 billion) from Australian dollar
bonds this year, the most since 2006, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Seven issues had maturities of six years or more
compared with one in 2009, the data show.  “One of the lessons we’ve learnt from the crisis is that
the financials are not always going to be the best bet,” said
 John Sorrell , who helps manage about A$14 billion of fixed-
income assets as Sydney-based head of credit at Tyndall
Investment Management Australia Ltd. “It’s better to diversify
into corporates, and if we’re going to attract them we need to
be more flexible in offering longer maturities.”  Financial companies and top-rated overseas borrowers issued
about 78 percent of the A$89.9 billion in corporate notes sold
in Australia this year, Bloomberg data show. A more diversified
and liquid bond market would boost the economy and give
companies an extra funding source to turn to if another global
financial crisis froze bank lending, according to the  findings 
of a government-appointed panel.  Non-financial companies are issuing bonds with maturities
as long as 10 years compared with typical tenors of between
three and five years, according to Sorrell, who said he’s using
new issues to rebalance portfolios that have as much as 80
percent of assets in financial company debt.  APA Notes  APA, whose pipelines carry more than half Australia’s
natural gas, raised A$300 million from 7.75 percent bonds in
July that were the first BBB rated 10-year notes ever sold in
Australia by a non-financial company, Bloomberg data show.  Mirvac, a Sydney-based real estate investment trust, sold
A$200 million of six-year notes priced to yield 8.015 percent on
Sept. 22, according to a sale document. The yield fell to 7.965
percent yesterday, according to Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. prices on Bloomberg.  Telstra, Australia’s largest phone company, sold its first
domestic bonds since 2006 in June, raising A$150 million from
10-year notes. The securities were priced to yield 7.825 percent
and yielded 7.2 percent yesterday, ANZ prices show.  Australian investors asked for the issue, which “follows
on from long-dated deals by Telstra in euros, Hong Kong dollars
and New Zealand dollars,”  Patrick Mullins , global co-head of
capital markets origination at sale manager National Australia
Bank, said at the time of the offering.  ‘Increased Willingness’  Australian money managers are showing “an increased
willingness to buy longer-dated corporate debt,” said  Mark Bayley , a Sydney-based credit strategist with advisory company
Aquasia Ltd.  Bank of America Corp. , UBS AG and HSBC Holdings Plc are
among overseas banks that sold notes in Australia this year,
while Australia’s four biggest lenders issued a combined A$20.4
billion of securities, Bloomberg data show.  The extra yield investors demand to own Australian dollar
financial company bonds instead of similar-maturity government
debt has fallen 1 basis point this quarter to 215 basis points,
or 2.15 percentage points, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s Australian Financial Index.  The spread on bonds in Merrill Lynch’s Australian
Industrial Index, which includes debt issued by Mirvac and
Telstra, narrowed 10 basis points to 228 in the same period.  Loan Prices  Australian companies may seek to sell more bonds as
lenders’ borrowing costs rise, spurring them to demand higher
interest margins on loans, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
analysts wrote in a Sept. 27 report.  The average yield premium on Australian banks’ bonds may
increase by as much as 25 basis points by the end of 2011 as
they replace maturing debt with more expensive funding, the
Reserve Bank of Australia  said  last month.  APA’s sale and a Sept. 22 offering of A$550 million in
five-year bonds by DBNGP Finance Co., the finance unit of a gas
pipeline venture in Western Australia, show “substantial
investor demand for a correctly-priced corporate deal,” Bayley
said. “From an issuer standpoint this gives them a viable
alternative to shorter-dated bank loans.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McDonald  in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at   wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  