-- Australia Cattle Prices Rise to Highest Since 2006 After Rain Cuts Supply
-- B y   W e n d y   P u g h
-- 2010-09-29T03:29:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/australia-cattle-prices-rise-to-highest-since-2006-after-rain-cuts-supply.html
Cattle prices in Australia, the
second-largest beef exporter, rose to a four-year high for a
fourth-straight week as rainfall this month reduces livestock
numbers at sales and increases demand.  The eastern young cattle indicator, which measures prices
at sales, gained to A$3.7425 ($3.62) per kilogram yesterday,
Sydney-based  Meat & Livestock Australia  reported on its website.
That’s the highest level since August 2006.  A La Nina event has brought wet weather to Australia’s
eastern states, boosting grain yields and slowing sugar cane
harvesting. Above-average rain in parts of Queensland state has
disrupted transportation of cattle and increased confidence
among graziers to rebuild herds after drought, according to Meat
& Livestock Australia.  “Producers are finding it difficult to muster stock and
move them and there is increasing demand from re-stockers
looking to make the most of the seasonal conditions,” Meat &
Livestock Economist Tim McRae said. Prices would typically start
to decline from September as supply increases, he said.  Cattle futures for December delivery in Chicago fell 0.3
percent to settle at 99 cents a pound at 12:29 p.m. Melbourne
time, trimming this year’s gain to 15 percent.  Australian cattle prices over the “short-to-medium” term
would be supported by restricted global supply as production
fell this year in countries including the U.S. and Argentina,
according to Rabobank Groep NV.  Supply Restrictions  “The main story of the next 12 months is about supply,”
Rabobank Senior Analyst  Wendy Voss  said by phone in Melbourne.
“We are not relying on massive growth in demand to drive the
prices, it is more about supply being restricted.”  Australian exports for the first eight months of the year
were 607,000 metric tons, down from 625,000 tons at the same
time a year earlier, McRae said. Australia had increased sales
to Russia following a drop in shipments from rival shipper
Argentina, he said. Output in the South American country has
been cut by drought.  “Export demand has been slowly increasing during the year
and at the moment we are seeing some pretty good buying from
Russia, and we are still seeing good volumes going to Japan and
Korea,” he said. Still, the strength of the Australian dollar
would reduce export returns and could limit prices paid at
saleyards, he said. The Australian dollar traded at 96.71 U.S.
cents at 12:27 p.m. Melbourne time, within two cents of its
record 98.50 cents on July 15, 2008.  Argentina’s Ministry of Agriculture forecasts beef exports
will exceed 360,000 tons in 2010, ministry spokesman Pablo Lopez
said in a Sept. 22 phone interview from Buenos Aires. Last year,
Argentina exported 419,337 tons, ministry data show.  Australia’s eastern states may be wetter than normal for
the next three months, the  Bureau of Meteorology  said Sept. 23,
as a La Nina, characterized by cool temperatures in the Pacific
Ocean, persists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wendy Pugh  in Melbourne 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 Jpoole4@bloomberg.net . 