-- Dollar Thrifty Shareholders to Vote on Hertz Offer After Avis Adds Fee
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n   a n d   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2010-09-30T00:37:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/avis-sweetens-dollar-thrifty-offer-with-termination-fee-to-counter-hertz.html
Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group
Inc.  investors are scheduled to choose today whether to accept
 Hertz Global Holdings Inc. ’s $1.46 billion takeover offer or
move on to  Avis Budget Group Inc. , which yesterday added a
termination fee to its higher bid.  Avis yesterday offered to pay Dollar Thrifty $20 million if
its merger proposal doesn’t win regulatory approval after months
of declining to add such a provision. The decision came after 
Hertz said it would immediately terminate its agreement with 
Dollar Thrifty if shareholders vote against the proposal.  The choice is up to Tulsa, Oklahoma-based Dollar Thrifty’s
shareholders, who are set to vote on Hertz’s offer at a special
meeting in Chicago. PAR Capital Management, Dollar Thrifty’s
 largest shareholder , said yesterday it plans to vote against
 Hertz ’s proposal because it undervalues the firm’s investment.  Dollar Thrifty rejected Avis’s $1.53 billion bid, saying it
wanted a breakup fee in case the transaction didn’t win
regulatory approval.  Richard Broome , a spokesman for Hertz,
declined to comment immediately on Avis’s announcement. Kindra
Marts,  David Reno  and  Stephanie Pillersdorf , spokesmen for
Dollar Thrifty, didn’t immediately return messages seeking
comment after normal business hours.  PAR, based in Boston, owned 2.19 million shares of Dollar
Thrifty as of June 30, or 7.6 percent of the shares outstanding,
according to data compiled by  Bloomberg . In a May filing, PAR
called Hertz’s stock-and-cash bid “woefully inadequate.” PAR
President  Paul Reeder  declined to elaborate in an interview
yesterday.  Hertz, based in Park Ridge, New Jersey, has said the most
recent bid is its “best and final” offer.  Avis asked  Dollar Thrifty  Sept. 27 to postpone tomorrow’s
vote so both offers can receive regulatory approval. If Dollar
Thrifty doesn’t put off the vote until Dec. 30 and its
shareholders reject Hertz, Parsippany, New Jersey-based Avis
said it will start an exchange offer at its latest bid.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mark Clothier  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net ;
 Alan Ohnsman  in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 