-- Geithner Urged to Preserve U.S. Vote in IMF Overhaul (Correct)
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2010-09-30T16:39:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/lawmakers-urge-geithner-to-preserve-u-s-s-voting-powers-in-imf-overhaul.html
(Corrects third paragraph to change ‘represented’ to
‘underrepresented’ in story published Sept. 29.)  Senate Foreign Relations Committee
leaders urged Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner to preserve
U.S. voting rights at the International Monetary Fund while
overhauling representation for emerging market nations.  Chairman John Kerry of Massachusetts and top Republican
Richard Lugar of Indiana said their panel supported IMF board
changes as long as the U.S. keeps its current powers. They
backed the Treasury’s efforts to reduce European board seats and
said Geithner’s progress on this issue would be a key
consideration for legislative action.  “We believe it is of great importance that these issues
are resolved fairly, neither to the detriment of the United
States, nor to that of the emerging and developing nations whose
populations are already underrepresented,” Kerry and Lugar
wrote in a Sept. 27 letter to Geithner that was provided to
Bloomberg today.  “The United States has already allowed its share to be
diluted in order to provide additional voting rights to other
members,” the senators said. “We strongly oppose any further
dilution of our voting rights, quota, and voice especially while
other developed countries remain substantially
overrepresented.”  Giving emerging nations such as China, South Korea and
Turkey a bigger say in IMF decisions may cost some European
countries a seat at the table. At stake is the governance of an
institution whose leadership doesn’t fully reflect shifts in the
global balance of economic power 65 years after it was created
to lend to cash-strapped countries.  Board Reviews  The IMF’s board reviews issues including loans to
countries, the health of their economies and assessments of
government policies. The committee was originally 20 seats. Over
the past 20 years, member countries every two years have voted
to allow additional seats. The board currently has 24 seats.  The U.S., the IMF’s largest shareholder with 16.7 percent
of the voting power, is the only country that can wield a veto
on measures that require 85 percent approval.  The number of European seats at the board varies from eight
to nine depending on the year. Germany, France and the U.K. have
their own vote along with the U.S. and Japan. Countries such as
Switzerland and Belgium have executive directors who represent a
group of nations.  Last month, the U.S. acted to block a proposal to maintain
the IMF board at 24 seats. European leaders have responded by
suggesting that U.S. should also cede power as Europe scales
back its leadership role.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  