-- California Taxes, Jobs Take Center Stage in Whitman-Brown Governor Debate
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2010-09-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/tax-cuts-jobs-take-center-stage-in-california-governor-s-debate.html
Democrat  Jerry Brown  and Republican
 Meg Whitman  traded barbs over issues from jobs to tax cuts in
the opening debate of the  California  governor’s race.  Whitman, 54, the former chief executive officer of e-
commerce site  EBay Inc ., said she wants to reduce taxes and
regulation to create 2 million jobs.  “We have to put a sign on California that says ‘Open for
business,’” she said. “We can make the Golden State golden
again.”  Brown, 72, a two-term former governor now serving as
attorney general, called Whitman’s plan to eliminate the state
capital-gains tax a giveaway to wealthy supporters.  “I will not give millionaires and billionaires a $5
billion tax break,” Brown said. “Those with the biggest belts
should tuck them in first.”  The nation’s largest state by population has the lowest
credit rating and third-highest unemployment rate, at 12.4
percent last month, compared with 9.6 percent nationwide.
California remains the only state without a budget three months
into the current fiscal year. Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger , a
Republican approaching the end of his term, and legislative
leaders canceled talks yesterday on how to close the state’s
$19.1 billion deficit.  Brown went into last night’s debate at the University of
California, Davis, with a 49 percent to 44 percent lead over
Whitman, according to a Los Angeles Times/University of Southern
California  poll  released Sept. 26. The survey of likely voters
had a margin for error of plus or minus 3.3 percentage points.  Job Plan  Brown said his job creation plan centered on investments in
solar, wind and geothermal power. He said he would continue to
enforce the state’s death penalty law, wanted to create a
“salary commission” to limit public-employee pay and would
introduce “a path to citizenship” for illegal immigrants.  Whitman said she’d cut spending on welfare, negotiate lower
pension benefits for existing workers and put future hires into
a 401(k)-like savings plan to trim state spending.  “The next governor has to have a spine of steel,” she
said. “Mr. Brown talks about bringing people together -- it
will be special interests, to collect their IOUs.”  Eight times as many California voters disapprove of the job
performance of state lawmakers as favor them, according a  Field
Poll  released yesterday. That’s the lowest rating for lawmakers
in the poll’s 27 years.  ‘Political Insider’  “It’s not an environment that favors a political insider
because people don’t think the system is working,” said  Mark Baldassare , president of the nonpartisan Public Policy Institute
of California, in an interview before the debate. “What Jerry
Brown has going for him is that he has relevant experience, but
he’s not in the middle of all the problems.”  John Pitney , a professor of American politics at Claremont
McKenna College in Claremont, California, said neither candidate
landed a decisive blow.  “Meg proved she had a command of the issues and did not
get wobbly under questioning,” Pitney said. “Jerry proved he
has a sense of humor.”  Brown got a laugh when asked if he planned to use the
governor’s office as a platform to run for president again.
Brown said his age and his wife would prevent him from repeating
the past.  “I’m not going to try to close down the bars of Sacramento
like I did the first time I was governor,” he said.  The candidates meet again Oct. 2 at California State
University in Fresno and Oct. 12 at Dominican University in San
Rafael. The election is Nov. 2.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christopher Palmeri  in Los Angeles at +1-323-782-4251 or
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
 Alison Vekshin  in Davis, California, at +1-415-617-7136 or
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  