-- Taylor Rule Gap With U.S. at 15-Year High Signals Rate Jump: Canada Credit
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f   a n d   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-09-29T15:21:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/taylor-rule-gap-with-u-s-at-15-year-high-signals-rate-jump-canada-credit.html
The gap in Canadian and U.S.
benchmark interest rates is at a 15-year high based on the
Taylor rule formula for determining optimal rates, signaling
borrowing costs are poised to rise further in Canada.  Using the Taylor rule, which measures inflation and output
to estimate the ideal interest rate, the Bank of Canada’s
benchmark should be about 2 percent, 1 percentage point higher
than it is, according to  Camilla Sutton  and  Sacha Tihanyi ,
currency strategists at Bank of Nova Scotia. The U.S. federal
funds rate is 1.75 percentage points above its Taylor rule
recommendation, which is below zero.  The combined difference of 2.75 percentage points indicates
the two central banks will continue on opposite paths, with the
Bank of Canada raising rates and the Federal Reserve providing
stimulus, Toronto-based Sutton and Tihanyi wrote in a research
note.  The higher rates may halt a rally in Canadian bonds, which
have gained for six straight months. Canadian government debt
has returned 7.36 percent this year, according to a Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index.  “It speaks to the pressure on the Bank of Canada for them
to have higher interest rates,” Sutton said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “Current policy rates are still too loose,
and they’re stimulating the domestic economy, fueling inflation
two years down the road.”  The Bank of Canada cut the  target rate  for overnight loans
between commercial banks to a record low 0.25 percent in 2009.
As the nation began to benefit from rising demand for its
natural resources, the central bank in June became the first in
the Group of Seven to raise rates, and has since boosted its
benchmark two more times to 1 percent.  Corporate Yields  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to hold the debt of Canada’s companies instead of its
federal government ended yesterday at 145 basis points. The
spread has tightened 4 basis points, or 0.04 percentage point,
in September and the same amount since June 30. Yields fell to
3.64 percent, from 3.95 percent at the end of June.  In the provincial bond market, relative yields tightened to
57 basis points yesterday, from 60 on Aug. 31 and 64 on June 30.
Yields were 2.93 percent, little changed from the end of last
month. Provincial debt has returned investors 0.81 percent this
month, extending the gain this quarter to 3.77 percent and this
year to 7.92 percent, which would be the best annual performance
since 2002.  Canadian government bonds, with about C$326 billion ($316
billion) outstanding, have returned 0.29 percent percent this
month, after reinvested interest, according to another Merrill
Lynch index. They gained 2.24 percent in August. U.S. Treasuries
were up 0.2 percent this month, compared with a 0.29 percent
drop for government bonds globally.  Alberta Bonds  Alberta, Canada’s fourth-most populous province, paid 63
basis points over benchmarks to sell C$150 million in a
reoffering of its 4 percent bonds due in December 2019, bringing
the total outstanding to C$1.1 billion.  Quebec, the second-most populous  province , reoffered C$500
million of its 5 percent bonds due December 2041 at 93.5 basis
points over benchmarks. The issue has C$5 billion outstanding.  The Canadian dollar has dropped 2.7 percent this month
against a basket of currencies from 10 developed-world nations,
the worst performer after the U.S. dollar, yen and pound among
the group, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency
Indexes. The loonie, as the dollar is sometimes known because of
the aquatic bird on the one-dollar coin, has risen 0.8 percent
this year.  10-Year Auction  The Bank of Canada will issue more details tomorrow about
its Oct. 6 auction of 10-year bonds. The information will be
available on the central bank’s website after 3:30 p.m.  Canada’s 2-year note  yield  ended yesterday at 1.39 percent,
for a yield advantage of 97 basis points over comparable
Treasuries, which ended yesterday at a yield of 0.43 percent The
spread, which widened to 106 basis points on Sept. 20, the most
since July 15, has averaged about 53 basis points in Canada’s
favor over 20 years, Bloomberg data show.  John Taylor , an economist at Stanford University, first
published his interest-rate formula in 1993. It takes into
account inflation and the output gap, the difference between the
economy’s capacity and actual output. The rule is widely
followed in the economic community, said  Michael Parkin ,
professor emeritus of economics at the University of Western
Ontario in London, Ontario, and a member of the Monetary Policy
Council at the C.D. Howe Institute, a research group.  Below Target  According to the estimates of  Paul-Andre Pinsonnault ,
senior fixed-income economist at National Bank of Canada, the
country’s benchmark interest rate is 88 basis points below its
Taylor rule target, and has been at least 50 basis points below
it for nine months, the longest streak since at least 2002. The
overnight rate has averaged 3 basis points below its Taylor rule
target over those eight years.  The U.S. Taylor rule target has been below zero since March
2009, according to Bloomberg data. The Fed has held its
benchmark fed funds rate at a range of zero to 0.25 percent
since December 2008. While it can’t cut rates below zero, it can
try to stimulate the economy by buying securities, a strategy
known as quantitative easing.  The discrepancy between Canadian and U.S. interest rates
relative to the Taylor rule means the differences between
government bond yields in the two countries are likely to keep
increasing in 2011, Scotia Capital’s Sutton said. The yield on
the two-year Canadian government bond was 29 basis point higher
in January than that on a U.S. two-year note.  Exchange Rates  The central banks’ separate paths will also be reflected in
exchange rates, with the U.S. dollar dropping to 98 Canadian
cents by the end of next year, from C$1.03, Sutton and Tihanyi
forecast in their report on Sept. 13.  The Taylor rule doesn’t make Canadian interest-rate
increases certain. Nine of 13 economists in a Bloomberg survey
predict the overnight rate will remain at 1 percent through the
year.  “We know the Bank of Canada is still quite prudent and
won’t take the chance of raising the rate too high as long as
there is the chance the U.S. economy could go back into
recession,” said Mathieu D’Anjou, senior economist at
Desjardins Group in Montreal. Desjardins estimates the central
bank will hold off on an increase until the second quarter of
2011. The Bank of Canada next meets Oct. 19 to determine rates.  From 2001 to 2006, the U.S. central bank allowed its
benchmark interest rate to trail the Taylor rule. Critics
including Taylor and Parkin said the Fed’s failure to raise
rates more quickly contributed to the housing bubble that led to
the deepest recession in seven decades.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matt Walcoff  in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net . 