-- Babies With Common Cancer Live as Long With Less Chemotherapy, Study Finds
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2010-09-29T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/babies-with-common-cancer-live-as-long-with-less-chemotherapy-study-finds.html
Cutting the amount of chemotherapy
in infants and young children with  neuroblastoma  to reduce the
risk of long-term side effects still enabled more than 90
percent to survive the third-most common childhood cancer, a
study showed.  Overall, three-year survival was about 96 percent in
patients who received either four or eight cycles of
 chemotherapy  amounting to a 40 percent to 70 percent reduction,
research this week in the New England Journal of Medicine found.  Lowering the amount of chemotherapy the children receive
may avoid long-term side effects like secondary cancers, hearing
loss and fertility issues, said the researchers led by  Katherine
Matthay . The survival rate in today’s  paper  is comparable to
those seen in earlier studies when children were given 10 cycles
of chemotherapy, she said.  “We have been over-treating a lot of these patients and we
need to cut back,” Matthay, chief of pediatric oncology at the
University of California, San Francisco, Medical Center, said in
a Sept. 24 telephone interview. “In our next study, we’re going
to decrease treatment even further because I think there are
some patients who may need next-to-no chemotherapy.”  Neuroblastoma is a cancer of the nerve tissue that often
starts in adrenal glands or in the neck, chest or spinal cord,
according to the U.S. National Library of Medicine.  Children’s Cancer  About  650  new cases of neuroblastoma are diagnosed each
year in the U.S., accounting for about 7 percent of all cancers
in children, according to the American Cancer Society. Most
cases are diagnosed in children ages 1 to 2 years old.  Neuroblastoma is the third-most common cancer in children
behind leukemia and cancers of the brain and spinal cord,
Matthay said.  The study followed 479 infants and young children from 1997
to 2005 to see if reducing chemotherapy would maintain a
survival of more than 90 percent. Most of their tumors were
located in the abdomen or the chest.  The patients had intermediate-risk cancer or a tumor. Some
of the children had large tumors that were cancerous and were
hard to remove, while some of the infants had cancer that had
spread to their bones or bone marrow.  The researchers examined all the tumors and classified them
as favorable or unfavorable depending on several characteristics
including how fast the tumor cells divided, Matthay said.  Lower Doses  Those who had favorable tumors received four cycles of
chemotherapy over three months, a 70 percent reduction from
previous studies where they received 10 rounds over nine months.
Those who had unfavorable tumors received eight cycles over six
months, a 40 percent reduction from previous treatment. All the
children also had surgery to remove their tumors.  The study showed the three-year survival for those with
favorable tumors was 98 percent, while the comparable survival
for those with unfavorable tumors was 93 percent. According to
Matthay, if a patient with intermediate-risk neuroblastoma
survives for three years without relapse, the patient almost
always is cured.  “Our goal was to decrease therapy and maintain survival
over 90 percent,” Matthay said. “We certainly achieved that.”  The study also shows that by looking at the types of
tumors, genetics and the aggressiveness of the cancer, doctors
can now personalize the way they treat the children, she said.  “We are definitely personalizing the amount of therapy we
give on the biology of the tumors,” Matthay said. “Before you
decide on therapy for a child with neuroblastoma, you should
make sure you know as much about the tumor as possible.”  A goal in the next study is also to decrease the amount and
the aggressiveness of the surgery to prevent hemorrhaging and
organ loss, Matthay said. Doctors have already stopped giving
most kids radiation for neuroblastoma because it can cause
cancer later in life and affect growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Ostrow  in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  