-- Balyasny Hedge Fund Said to Offer Lower Fees in Bid for Assets
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2010-09-29T14:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/balyasny-said-to-offer-lower-fees-on-biggest-hedge-fund-in-bid-for-assets.html
Balyasny Asset Management LP, a
Chicago-based investment firm overseeing $2 billion, is offering
reduced fees on its biggest hedge fund as it seeks to increase
assets, according to three people briefed on the matter.  A new share class charges a 2 percent annual management fee
and 30 percent of profits, said the people, who asked not to be
named because the information is private. Existing share classes
pay compensation costs for the firm’s investment teams, as well
as the 2 percent management fee and 20 percent of profits.
Investment expenses and performance fees combined have usually
exceeded 30 percent of profits.  Balyasny, started in 2002 by  Dmitri Balyasny , is among the
few hedge funds that pass along expenses to clients. Another,
Citadel LLC, may cut fees for its biggest funds, two people with
knowledge of the firm’s plans said earlier this month.
Renaissance Technologies Corp. is trimming fees for one of its
hedge funds, according to a person familiar with the matter.  “Hedge funds are becoming more and more investor-friendly
given how difficult it is for them to get assets through the
door,”  Matt Simon , a senior analyst at Tabb Group, a financial-
services consulting company in New York, said in an interview.  Barry Colvin , a vice chairman at Balyasny, confirmed the
details of the new share class and declined to comment further.  Investor Deposits  Almost all of the $23 billion put into hedge funds during
the first half of the year went to those with more than $5
billion, Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc. said on Sept.
15. Such funds account for 60 percent of the industry’s $1.6
trillion of assets.  Balyasny’s new share class is for clients that can invest
at least $10 million, said one of the people. Investors will pay
a 4 percent penalty to withdraw money during their first year.
Redemptions after the first year are quarterly.  The firm, whose assets peaked at $2.3 billion in September
2008, also is introducing a new share class with the original
fee structure that will allow clients to take out their money on
a monthly basis without any restrictions in the first year, said
one of the people.  Expenses at Chicago-based Citadel, which oversees $11.1
billion and is run by  Ken Griffin , usually range from 4 percent
to 6 percent. A comparable figure for Balyasny wasn’t available,
the people said.  Renaissance, based in East Setauket, New York, will cut
management fees for its Renaissance Institutional Equities Fund
to 0.35 percent from 0.5 percent for Series B, its biggest share
class, starting in January, according to a person familiar with
the firm. Renaissance will lower the management fee for Series A
shares to 1.5 percent from 2 percent.  The firm, founded by  James Simons , told clients in a Sept.
13 letter that the fund needed a “more competitive” fee
structure.  Jonathan Gasthalter , a spokesman for Renaissance,
declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Saijel Kishan  in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  