-- Bank of America Said to Cut More Than 20 Prop Trading Jobs
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2010-09-29T17:08:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/bank-of-america-is-said-to-eliminate-more-than-20-proprietary-trading-jobs.html
  Bank of America Corp ., the largest  U.S. bank , is eliminating between 20 and 30 proprietary trading
jobs to comply with Volcker rule limits on banks trading their
own capital, according to a person briefed on the decision.  The cuts, which represent fewer than one third of the
bank’s proprietary trading jobs, follow a decision this week to
stop trading some liquid instruments, said the person, who
declined to be more specific. Some of the affected employees are
being encouraged to seek jobs within the bank, the person said,
speaking anonymously because the matter isn’t public. The
positions are in New York and outside the U.S.  “We continue to explore the best possible ways to comply
with the Volcker rule and this is one step in that direction,”
said Jessica Oppenheim, a spokeswoman in New York for the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank.  Bank of America follows competitors including  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc . and JPMorgan Chase & Co. in taking steps to comply
with the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul legislation passed in
July. The Volcker rule, named after former Federal Reserve
Chairman  Paul Volcker , who proposed it, bans bank holding
companies that have federally insured deposits from trading for
their own accounts.  Bank of America’s proprietary trading business is run
globally by David Sobotka. He’s a former Merrill Lynch & Co.
commodities trader who later headed Merrill Lynch’s fixed-income
trading division before taking charge of proprietary trading in
August 2008. That was less than two months before Merrill Lynch
agreed to be acquired by Bank of America.  The group was created to consolidate teams that traded the
firm’s own capital in products including stocks, bonds,
currencies and commodities. Sobotka remains in his position, the
person briefed on the matter said. The jobs that are being cut
will be fully eliminated in the fourth quarter, the person said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in  New York  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alec McCabe at 
 amccabe@bloomberg.net . 