-- Banks Foreclose First, Ask Questions Later If Ever: Ann Woolner
-- B y   A n n   W o o l n e r
-- 2010-09-29T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/banks-foreclose-first-ask-questions-later-if-ever-ann-woolner.html
There was a time, not long ago,
when having a home of your own signaled stability. It was a
stake in a community, a place for individuals to come into their
own or for families to grow. It was a solemn obligation to a
financial institution, a statement of the bank’s faith in you,
an investment for old age.  So much for that. These days, millions of houses across the
country sit empty or shelter owners who can’t or won’t make
mortgage payments. The vacancies give lie to the notion of home
ownership as a road to stability.  As dismal as the  housing market  is, at least we could cling
to the idea that the nation was slowly climbing out of the
mortgage mess. However painful foreclosure and heartbreaking
evictions, the country was working its way toward still-distant
normalcy.  This month hope for a stabilized housing market took a hit,
as Ally Financial Inc.’s GMAC Mortgage unit halted evictions in
23 states. Attorneys general in two more states also are
demanding moratoria.  The culprit is sloppy, possibly fraudulent, paperwork by at
least one manager at the division. And it looks like he was
doing what lots of other foreclosure processors were doing, too.  We’ve seen this culprit before. Sloppy research and
sometimes fraudulent paperwork by lenders, loan packagers,
credit raters and insurers of mortgage-backed securities kicked
off the mortgage disaster in the first place.  The only difference is that this time it’s occurring at the
rear end of the business,  foreclosures .  Did anybody working at mortgage lenders learn anything over
the past two years? And shouldn’t banks be careful about taking
away someone’s home?  No Checks  GMAC middle manager Jeffrey Stephan said in a deposition
that he signed 10,000 foreclosure packages a month. To
accomplish that, he had to give up something. What he omitted
was checking to see whether the named owner was really in
default and whether the listed mortgage holder in fact still
held the mortgage.  In other words, he had no time to check the facts contained
in the papers whose accuracy he was guaranteeing. Nor did he
bother to always have a notary present when he signed, as
required.  Likewise, a  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  executive said in a
deposition last May that she hadn’t personally verified
information on the thousands of affidavits and other documents
she signed so that her bank could foreclose on houses.  Review Process  Beth Ann Cottrell, an operation supervisor at the company’s
Chase Home Finance unit, testified that she and seven other
managers signed a total of about 18,000 documents a month,
according to a  transcript .  “My review is more or less signing the document unless
it’s questionable,” she said.  Lawyers for homeowners say it was her job to do the
questioning, and to do it before signing. Why else was she
reviewing the documents -- for typos?  Between the two of them, JPMorgan and Ally service a huge
chunk of the country’s home mortgages, $1.35 trillion for
JPMorgan and more than $349 billion for Ally, according to
newsletter Inside Mortgage Finance.  These firms were clearly overwhelmed by the volume of
foreclosures, but there’s a reason people like Stephan and
Cottrell were called on to sign the documents, and it isn’t to
serve as rubber stamps.  Ally calls Stephan’s time-saving methods a mere
“technical” error and says it’s working to correct the
“potential” issue. It may have to redo some foreclosures.  Speculative Conclusions  Surely Ally was aware of how quickly those stacks of
foreclosure packages were moving. What did it think was
happening?  If for no other reason, it should have been more careful
because in 2006 GMAC was sanctioned by a judge in Duval County,
Florida, for precisely the same conduct.  It’s too early for Ally to call the problem only technical,
a common practice with no serious consequences. No one can know
that since no one was checking the accuracy of the documents.  To say that few, if any, homeowners were wrongfully evicted
is mere speculation. So is the idea that almost all owners of
mortgages were accurately identified at foreclosure.  Some consequences are already clear. Thanks to this little
“potential” issue, even borrowers who have clearly defaulted
get new grounds to try to fend off foreclosure.  Lawyers for a homeowner in Palm Beach County,  Florida , have
asked a judge to cancel foreclosure proceedings for her because
of Cottrell’s admission.  Then there are people as yet untouched by foreclosure who
occupy homes long after they stopped making mortgage payments.
They could get more time living mortgage-free as servicers try
to figure out who’s really in default and to which mortgage
holder.  Legal Consequences  Slowing down the process will keep more people sheltered
longer, and will reduce the dumping of homes into an already
flooded  housing market . That’s fine by me.  But it also delays the day when the market will hit bottom
and recovery begins.  And technical or not, in some states the mortgage-servicing
firm can get into serious legal trouble for cutting corners.  “The use of unverified affidavits to obtain judicial
relief could constitute a fraud upon the court,” North Carolina
Assistant Attorney General  Philip Lehman  wrote Ally General
Counsel  William B. Solomon Jr . this week.  No, home ownership isn’t what it used to be. And as long as
those in the mortgage business keep up their slovenly habits, it
won’t be.  ( Ann Woolner  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ann Woolner in Atlanta at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  