-- Diller Plans to Resign as Chairman of Live Nation Entertainment
-- B y   A n t h o n y   P a l a z z o
-- 2010-09-29T20:36:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/barry-diller-is-said-to-step-down-as-chairman-of-live-nation-entertainment.html
Barry Diller  plans to resign as
chairman of  Live Nation Entertainment Inc. , eight months after a
merger that combined the world’s largest concert promoter and
ticketing company.  Diller told  board members  yesterday that while there is
“no rush,” they should start the process to appoint a new
chairman, according to an e-mailed statement.  Diller, 68, faced shareholder opposition to a continued
role at the merged Ticketmaster Entertainment and Live Nation
before the companies combined in January. He was Ticketmaster’s
chairman before the deal. While restructuring
 IAC/InterActiveCorp , the Internet company he leads, Diller
battled in court with John Malone’s Liberty Media Corp., Live
Nation’s largest shareholder.  “I have always said, since the merger of Ticketmaster and
Live Nation, that I only planned to stay as chairman through the
transition and integration of the two companies,” Diller said
in the statement.  Live Nation has faced a disappointing summer concert season
in North America with acts such as U2 postponing shows. Its
stock plunged  21 percent  in two days in July after Chief
Executive Officer  Michael Rapino  said growth had slowed.  Diller’s departure will take effect at the next board
meeting, said a person familiar with the matter, who asked not
to be identified because the decision isn’t public. The timing
of the next meeting isn’t clear, the person said.  Live Nation , based in Beverly Hills, California, gained 11
cents, or 1.1 percent, to $9.96 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have fallen 31 percent in
the past six months.  Concert Merger  The company was created in January with the merger of
Ticketmaster, the world’s largest ticketing company, and Live
Nation, the biggest concert promoter and artist-management
company. Ticketmaster CEO  Irving Azoff  became executive chairman
and CEO of Front Line artist-management. Rapino, CEO at Live
Nation, kept that title at the new company.  The merger took more than a year ago complete because of an
extended regulatory review by the U.S. Justice Department.  Malone’s Liberty Media holds a 14 percent stake in Live
Nation, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Liberty CEO
Greg Maffei expressed confidence in Live Nation’s management at
an investor conference last week.  In May, U2 postponed the North American leg of its tour
after singer Bono had emergency back surgery. The shows have
been rescheduled for spring and summer of 2011.  The Hollywood Reporter, which reported Diller’s resignation
earlier, cited unidentified people as saying there was a clash
between the executive and other board members over control of
the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony Palazzo in Los Angeles at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net . 