-- Beiersdorf Jumps as P&G Chief Calls Nivea ‘Terrific’
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   P a u l   J a r v i s
-- 2010-09-29T20:33:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/beiersdorf-gains-after-p-g-chief-expresses-interest-in-company.html
Beiersdorf AG  rose the most in a
year in Frankfurt trading after Procter & Gamble Co. Chief
Executive Officer  Robert McDonald  said the company has a
“terrific global brand” in Nivea skin cream.  Beiersdorf would “have to come to us,” McDonald said
today in an interview in Urlati, Romania, when asked if he would
look at buying the German company. “The price and the contract
would have to be right.”  The CEO of P&G, the largest consumer-products company in
the world, aims to add brands worldwide to expand in countries
such as Brazil and China, whose economies are outpacing that of
the U.S. Buying Beiersdorf would bolster P&G in Latin America
and Asia and add to its base of male customers, said Vivienne
Rudd, senior European beauty analyst at Mintel in London.  The stock climbed 4 percent to 44.50 euros as of the
5:30 p.m. close of trading in Frankfurt, giving the company a
market value of 11.2 billion euros ($15.3 billion). The daily
percentage gain was the biggest since Sept. 7, 2009, and the
 shares  earlier climbed as much as 10 percent, the most intraday
since April 2003. P&G fell 37 cents to $60.25 at 4:15 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  P&G “can afford to pay whatever Beiersdorf wants,” Rudd
said today in a telephone interview. “The question is, would
P&G want to buy all of Beiersdorf, or just the beauty
business?” The Hamburg-based company is controlled by closely
held coffee retailer Maxingvest AG.  Willing to Sell?  Commenting on  P&G’s  acquisition strategy today, the CEO
said the target “has to be willing to sell to us and the price
has to be right.” Thomas Schoenen, a spokesman for Beiersdorf,
said the company has had no indication P&G is interested.  Since taking over in July 2009, McDonald has looked to
developing countries for  growth , with about 60 percent of his
Cincinnati-based company’s revenue coming from outside the U.S.  At home, the maker of Olay skin products, Pampers diapers
and Tide detergent has faced increasing competition from the
makers of generic brands, which won consumers during the
recession.  Net income  fell 12 percent last quarter as marketing
costs increased, squeezing profit margins.  The company is seeking more luxury skin-care and fragrance
brands to tap growth in developing countries,  Patrice Louvet ,
president of P&G global prestige products, said in an interview
last week in Milan. Beiersdorf’s La Prairie brand fits with that
strategy because of its strength in Asia, said Mintel’s Rudd.  La Prairie Price  “La Prairie operates at a really good price point,” Rudd
said. “While aspirational, it’s still accessible for a lot of
women.”  Beiersdorf’s roots go back to an 1882 bandage patent. The
company introduced the first Nivea cream in 1911 and has used
the blue-and-white packaging for which the brand is known since
1925.  Beiersdorf also makes Eucerin skin creams and luxury creams
under its La Prairie brand and owns the Tesa SE unit, a maker of
adhesive tapes for industrial and private customers.  Maxingvest, the family holding of some members of the Herz
billionaire family, also owns the Tchibo coffee retailer. The
holding, which has had a stake in Beiersdorf since 1974, became
majority owner in 2003 after buying shares from Allianz AG.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Paul Jarvis  in London at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net ;
 Andra Timu  in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net . 