-- Berggruen Will Spend $545 Million on Karstadt After Outbidding Competitors
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2010-09-29T22:21:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/berggruen-will-spend-545-million-on-karstadt-after-outbidding-competitors.html
Nicolas Berggruen , who is acquiring
German department-store chain Karstadt AG, said he’s already
invested about 73 million euros of the 400 million euros ($545
million) he’s budgeted to spend on the stores in five years.  “These are investments that are really mostly capital
expenditures to refresh the stores,” the 49-year-old German-
American said last week in an interview during a visit to New
York. “Right now I think the business just needs care and
stability and direction, not confusion. We want to be very
focused.”  To buy Karstadt, Berggruen had to outbid two competitors
and then negotiate for lower rents with the Highstreet
partnership, owner of most of Karstadt’s real estate, whose
shareholders include  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  and  Deutsche Bank
AG . He succeeded in part because he doesn’t plan to close or
sell any stores, which won support from the German government,
labor unions and local communities.  Germany’s economy is stronger than its European neighbors
and Karstadt’s sales and cash flow are good, Berggruen said.
Still, he says labor laws and “crazy” restrictions on
retailing hours provide challenges.  “And the Germans are not shoppers, so you have a lot of
things against you,” says Berggruen, who was called “the
homeless billionaire” in 2008 after giving up his residences
and choosing to live in hotels instead. Germans “are not
frivolous. That’s one of the problems with department stores.”  In addition to Berggruen Holdings Inc., whose investments
range from Spain’s largest media company to an Indian car-rental
firm, Berggruen also controls a charitable trust and a political
think tank that’s working in places such as Africa, Europe and
California.  Single Philosophy  Berggruen, whose fortune is estimated at $2.2 billion by
Forbes magazine, said his investments are guided by a single
philosophy: finding mismanaged or badly financed businesses that
have a franchise value and good business model.  “I’m interested in buying businesses that fundamentally
should exist, that have an established franchise, positive cash
flow, and that are simple businesses that are not dependent on
one super manager,” he said. “It’s about taking a long-term
view as opposed to a short-term view and having some courage,
meaning going into things that aren’t necessarily popular.”  Berggruen, whose late father  Heinz Berggruen ’s modern art
collection was the basis for Berlin’s Berggruen Museum, said he
started investing his own money when he was 16 and has been
running his company since he was 25. Early in his career he had
training jobs with LMS Capital Plc’s Chairman  Robert “Robbie” Rayne  in London,  Sid Bass  in Texas and  Benjamin R. Jacobson ,
managing general partner of New York-based Jacobson Partners, he
said.  “Buying underperforming businesses or businesses that have
the wrong capital structure is really the way I’ve made my
money,” he said. “I don’t know what the return on capital is,
but it’s fairly high, on average, maybe five to 10 times the
capital, and so if you do that many, many times over, then it
adds up to something that’s reasonably successful.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alec McCabe at 
 amccabe@bloomberg.net . 