-- Berlusconi Is Set to Win Today's Confidence Vote With Support From Fini
-- B y   S t e v e   S c h e r e r   a n d   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e
-- 2010-09-29T11:36:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/berlusconi-set-to-win-italy-confidence-vote-that-may-revive-his-leadership.html
Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  will probably win a confidence vote today after a
splinter group that left his party in July promised to back him.  Berlusconi, who turns 74 today, outlined five priorities
for the remaining 30 months of his term in an hour-long speech
to the Chamber of Deputies in Rome. Lawmakers will vote
beginning at 7 p.m. on whether to support the premier. A loss
would bring down his government.  A July 30 split with  Gianfranco Fini , co-founder of his
People of Liberty party, robbed Berlusconi of an absolute
majority in the lower house. Fini’s allies today pledged to back
Berlusconi, who also is seeking to broaden his support so he
doesn’t have to depend on his former ally. Fini, 58, was ejected
from Berlusconi’s party after criticizing the premier for not
allowing dissent.  “We will vote yes” to the government, European Affairs
Minister  Andrea Ronchi , a member of Fini’s group, said after
Berlusconi’s speech. Fini’s support should guarantee the
survival of the government.  “It’s in the absolute interest of the country not to risk
a political crisis” during a moment of economic
“instability,” Berlusconi said in his speech. He called on
lawmakers to “make an effort to avoid a crisis, and a
commitment to complete the legislature together.”  Bond Yield  Berlusconi’s third stint in office is faltering before its
scheduled end in 2013 as the government tries to slash 25
billion euros ($34 billion) from its deficit and must pay back
50 billion euros of bonds that mature this year.  The yield premium investors demand to hold 10-year Italian
bonds rather than similar-maturity German securities has climbed
48 basis points since Aug. 2 to 170 basis points today and is
approaching its euro-era record of 185 basis points set in June.  “Should Premier Berlusconi win the confidence vote, we
would expect a quick partial reversion of the recent spread
widening,”  Marco Annunziata , chief economist at UniCredit Group
in London, wrote in a note to investors.  The billionaire premier is trying to head off an early vote
that polls show he may not be able to win because of the dispute
with Fini. Berlusconi’s standing was unchanged this month at 39
percent, matching the lowest level since he was re-elected in
April 2008, according to an IPR Marketing poll that surveys
1,000 adults by telephone and has a 2.5 percent margin of error.  In an Aug. 4 vote in the Chamber, Berlusconi was 17 votes
shy of a majority. He has openly courted opposition members,
some of whom have pledged to switch allegiance today.  Fini is considered one of the politicians most likely to
vie for leadership. Fini and Berlusconi, before splitting, won
three elections together, in 1994, 2001 and 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Scherer  in Rome at 
 scherer@bloomberg.net ;
 Marco Bertacche  in Milan at 
 mbertacche@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  