-- Berlusconi Survives Italian Confidence Vote With Support of Splinter Group
-- B y   S t e v e   S c h e r e r   a n d   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e
-- 2010-09-29T17:44:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/berlusconi-survives-italian-confidence-vote-with-support-of-splinter-group.html
Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  survived a confidence vote in parliament with the
support of a splinter group that broke from his party in July.  Berlusconi, who turned 74 today, won the vote 342 to 275,
after outlining priorities for the remaining 30 months of his
term in a speech to the Chamber of Deputies in Rome.  A July 30 split with  Gianfranco Fini , co-founder of
Berlusconi’s People of Liberty party, robbed him of an absolute
majority in the lower house of parliament. Fini, 58, was ejected
from the party after criticizing the premier for not allowing
dissent. Fini’s allies today backed Berlusconi.  “It’s in the absolute interest of the country not to risk
a political crisis” amid economic “instability,” Berlusconi
said. He called on lawmakers to “to complete the legislature
together.”  Berlusconi’s third stint in office is faltering before its
scheduled end in 2013 as the government tries to slash 25
billion euros ($34 billion) from its deficit and must pay back
50 billion euros of bonds that mature this year.  The yield premium investors demand to hold 10-year Italian
bonds rather than similar-maturity German securities has climbed
48 basis points since Aug. 2 to 170 basis points today and is
approaching its euro-era record of 185 basis points set in June.  “Should premier Berlusconi win the confidence vote, we
would expect a quick partial reversion of the recent spread
widening,”  Marco Annunziata , chief economist at UniCredit Group
in London wrote in a note to investors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Scherer  in Rome at 
 scherer@bloomberg.net ;
 Marco Bertacche  at   mbertacche@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  