-- BHP's Kloppers to Be Deposed in Potash Takeover Suit
-- B y   A n d r e w   M   H a r r i s
-- 2010-09-29T22:30:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/bhp-chief-kloppers-to-be-deposed-in-potash-takeover-lawsuit.html
BHP Billiton Ltd.  Chief Executive
Officer  Marius Kloppers  will be deposed as part of a federal
court lawsuit in Chicago over the takeover of  Potash Corp.  of
Saskatchewan Inc., a lawyer for the company said.  Kloppers is one of four executives that the Melbourne-based
company will make available for questioning, attorney  Howard Zelbo  told a federal judge today. Potash Corp. claims its
lawsuit that the CEO and other BHP executives conspired to drive
down the Saskatoon-based company’s  stock price  before a $40
billion hostile takeover bid.  “They’re the key fact witnesses,” Zelbo told U.S.
Magistrate Judge Jeffrey Gilbert.  Potash Corp., the world’s  largest fertilizer maker , said
when it sued  BHP  on Sept. 22 that it filed the case in Chicago
because Kloppers had conveyed his company’s $130 a share offer
to Potash Corp. CEO  Bill Doyle  within the court’s jurisdiction.  U.S. District Judge  David Coar  on Sept. 27 rejected a BHP
request that he stay the exchange of evidence in the case until
he ruled on a request by BHP to dismiss the case.  The judge said he would take no action related to a
dismissal motion until it was filed with the court. As of today,
BHP, Australia’s largest oil and gas producer, hadn’t filed that
request with the court.  Coar, saying that some of  Potash Corp. ’s discovery demands
appeared to be overly broad, referred that case to Gilbert for
supervision. Gilbert today told lawyers for both sides that he
expected them to confer with each other before presenting
disputes to him.  Discovery Schedule  That process is already under way, the lawyers told
Gilbert. The magistrate judge ordered them to work out a
discovery schedule and report back to him on Oct. 1.  Coar has set a Nov. 4 hearing on Potash Corp.’s request for
an injunction barring BHP from pressing its tender offer until
it issues “corrective” disclosures and shareholders have 60
days to review them.  The stock tender date is currently Nov. 18.  The case is Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. v. BHP
Billiton Ltd., 10-cv-06024, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 