-- Big Oil's Spill Fleet May Lag Deep-Water Drilling by 3 Months
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2010-09-29T17:25:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/big-oil-may-take-months-after-drilling-ban-ends-to-have-spill-fleet-ready.html
The biggest U.S. and European oil
companies may not assemble a fleet of spill-response vessels
that can handle a disaster like BP Plc’s Macondo blowout until
March, three months after the deep-water drilling ban in the
Gulf of Mexico is scheduled to expire.  Marine Well Containment Co., founded by  Exxon Mobil Corp. ,
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc ,  Chevron Corp.  and  ConocoPhillips , will
need as many as six months to create a temporary network of
tankers, pipes and pressure-control devices for future offshore
spills, said  Margaret Ross , a spokeswoman for Irving, Texas-
based Exxon. Building a fleet from scratch will take up to 18
months, Ross said today.  The delay may leave the Gulf and coastal beaches and
fisheries vulnerable to another spill for months after the
federal government allows deep-water oil exploration to resume,
said Nick Berning, a spokesman for Friends of the Earth.
Drilling in Gulf waters deeper than 500 feet (152 meters) was
prohibited after the April 20 Macondo eruption that killed 11
rig workers and spewed enough crude to fill two supertankers.  “It’s alarming because obviously if drilling is going to
be occurring you want to have the tools in place to respond to a
spill,” Berning said in a telephone interview from the
environmental group’s Washington headquarters. “The moratorium
should not be lifted.”  Exxon, Shell, Chevron and ConocoPhillips in July announced
plans to invest $250 million each to establish Marine Well, a
non-profit company that will be able to halt spills of 100,000
barrels a day in seas as deep as 10,000 feet.  Macondo Blowout  Macondo, located 40 miles off the Louisiana coast in about
5,067 feet of water, gushed as much as 62,000 barrels a day
according to government estimates. The well leaked for 87 days
before a sealing cap was successfully installed. The U.S.
Justice Department, Coast Guard, Interior Department and several
House and Senate committees are investigating the catastrophe.  The disaster injured 17 workers, sank the $365 million
Deepwater Horizon drilling rig and closed fishing across a
section of the Gulf equal in surface area to the state of
Nebraska. BP, based in London, announced the formation of a new
safety division today and said exploration chief  Andrew Inglis 
will leave the company by the end of the year.  The moratorium, which idled 33 rigs, is likely to end
before it’s set to expire Nov. 30,  William K. Reilly , co-
chairman of President  Barack Obama ’s commission on the spill and
offshore drilling, said in a Sept. 27 interview.  Exxon Briefings  Exxon, the lead sponsor of Marine Well, scheduled briefings
for other offshore oil and natural-gas producers today and Oct.
14 in Houston to explain the containment system and ask them to
join the group, Leslie Huselton, an outside spokeswoman for
Marine Well, said in an e-mailed statement.  Lawmakers and Interior Secretary  Kenneth Salazar  criticized
the oil industry in the aftermath of the disaster for being ill-
prepared to deal with a spill of that magnitude.  The incident “laid bare shortcomings in offshore drilling
safety, spill-response capabilities and blowout-containment
practices,” Salazar said during a Sept. 22 panel discussion
that included BP’s Inglis, Energy Secretary  Steven Chu  and Exxon
Chief Executive Officer  Rex Tillerson .  BP, the largest oil and gas producer in the U.S. Gulf, on
Sept. 20 said it plans to join the Marine Well group and make
available the equipment and some employees involved in bringing
the Macondo well under control.  ‘Already in Place’  Some of the BP equipment may need to be inspected and
repaired after months of use in the Macondo effort, said Erik
Milito, director of upstream and industry operations at the
American Petroleum Institute, a Washington-based trade group for
more than 400 oil and gas companies.  “We believe a lot is already in place” to respond to
spills in the Gulf, said Milito, a former Interior Department
lawyer. “Some of it may have to be refurbished and prepared for
another blowout. We have seen some success from what BP
deployed.”  The time it will take Marine Well to build its spill-
response capability isn’t reason enough to prolong the
moratorium, said  Brian Youngberg , an analyst at Edward Jones &
Co. in St. Louis.  “I don’t think it’s a legitimate reason to worry,”
Youngberg said today in a telephone interview. “These companies
have been operating in deep water for many, many years.
Obviously, Macondo was a devastating accident but I don’t think
any of us envision that happening again. It’ll take time for
them to get this response mechanism in place.”  Meeting the Deadline  Ross, the Exxon spokeswoman, said BP’s contribution of
equipment and personnel will help the group meet the six-month
deadline.  “It demonstrates the commitment outlined in the
containment system announced on July 21 that existing equipment
will be secured and available within six months, with the new
system targeted for completion within 18 months,” Ross said in
an e-mailed statement.  Conceptual engineering for the spill-response system has
been completed, according to a  fact sheet  published on Exxon’s
website.  Once assembled, the fleet will be “maintained in a state
of continuous operational readiness,” according to the sheet.
“In the event of a future incident, mobilization to the field
will start within days and the system will be fully operational
within weeks.”  An illustration of the system shows vessels that would
capture and store crude on the sea’s surface connected to
underwater pipes, manifolds, pressure valves and other equipment
used to separate oil and gas. Oil from a leaking well would be
hauled away for sale, while gas would be burned off.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 