-- Bini Smaghi Says Can't Ignore Basel III Side Effects for Monetary Policy
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2010-09-29T07:57:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/bini-smaghi-says-can-t-ignore-basel-iii-side-effects-for-monetary-policy.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member  Lorenzo Bini Smaghi  said the new Basel III rules on
banking regulation have side effects for monetary policy that
can’t be ignored.  While the benefits of the regulation will “outweigh the
direct cost,” the ECB will have to address “far-reaching”
challenges “ranging from the transmission mechanism of monetary
policy to interactions with several aspects of the operational
frameworks,” Bini Smaghi said in a speech in Milan today.
“These are of course side-effects of the proposed regulations
which should not be neglected.”  Regulators from 27 nations this month more than doubled the
capital requirements for banks in an effort to prevent future
financial crises. Lenders will have as long as eight years to
comply in full. The new rules and ratios, the strictest since
nations began regulating the global banking system together in
1974, will force many institutions to sell new shares, while
others will be restricted on how much cash they can return to
their shareholders for years to come.  “The implementation of those standards will cause banks to
change their investment behavior,” Bini Smaghi said. “The
newly proposed regulation would make it more attractive to
acquire liquidity from central banks” and will likely “lead to
a higher demand from banks for government bonds.”  The ECB is in the process of phasing out unlimited
liquidity support for euro-region banks that was introduced
after the collapse of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  in September
2008. Tomorrow, banks have to return 75 billion euros to the
Frankfurt-based central bank when the second of three 12-month
tenders expires.  Higher demand for ECB cash would push up the interest rates
charged in refinancing operations, Bini Smaghi said. While the
ECB could accommodate this demand by making more cash available,
“in the long run it might crowd out market activity, and reduce
incentives for peer monitoring,” he said. “This could in turn
increase risk-taking behavior.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jana Randow  in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
 Elisa Martinuzzi  in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  