-- Black's Lawyers Tell U.S. Appeals Court to Throw Out Mail Fraud Conviction
-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s
-- 2010-09-29T18:16:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/black-s-lawyers-tell-appeals-court-to-throw-out-mail-fraud-conviction.html
Conrad Black’s  2007 convictions for
fraud and obstructing justice should be thrown out because it’s
impossible to tell whether jurors found him guilty under a now-
invalid legal theory, his lawyer told a federal appeals court.  A three-judge panel in Chicago is hearing Black’s case
today for the second time following a U.S. Supreme Court
decision that narrowed the scope of the so-called honest
services fraud statute, the law used to prosecute the former
Hollinger International Inc. chairman.  “None of the fraud or obstruction convictions can survive
examination of the trial record,” Black’s appellate lawyer,
 Miguel Estrada , told the judges during oral arguments.
Prosecutors, in court filings, said there’s ample evidence to
support Black’s conviction on other grounds.  Black, 66, was convicted by a U.S. jury in July 2007 after
a four-month trial. He and three other former executives at the
Chicago-based publisher now known as Sun-Times Media Group Inc.
were found to have stolen $6.1 million from the company as they
engineered its sale of assets.  The Supreme Court, ruling on former Enron Corp. Chief
Executive Officer  Jeffrey K. Skilling ’s appeal, said the statute
can be applied only to allegations involving bribes or kickbacks
that deprive citizens or shareholders of honest services.
Federal prosecutors also used the law in cases against ex-
Illinois governors  George Ryan  and  Rod Blagojevich .  Jury Instructions  In a separate opinion, the court returned Black’s case to
the Chicago appellate judges to reconsider how the jury arrived
at its verdict. Jurors were allowed to base their vote for
convictions of Black and the other Hollinger executives on
either honest-services fraud or conventional fraud without
having to specify.  The men were convicted on three fraud counts spanning two
separate transactions, one involving a $5.5 million payment and
another for $600,000.  Hollinger General Counsel  Mark Kipnis ’s conviction for
aiding in the smaller theft was thrown out when U.S. District
Judge  Amy J. St. Eve  decided he hadn’t been with the company
long enough to have formed a culpable intent.  “The erroneous honest-services instruction was harmless
beyond a reasonable doubt,” prosecutors said in an August
filing with the appeals court. “The fraud convictions here
should be affirmed because the record shows, beyond a reasonable
doubt, that a rational jury found the defendants guilty on the
valid money-fraud theory.”  Skeptical Judge  U.S. Circuit Judge  Richard Posner  expressed skepticism when
Assistant U.S. Attorney Edmond Chang returned to that theme
today, telling the court that the jury was presented with one
set of facts and two legal theories under which they could
convict.  “You must have felt having honest services in there was a
help to you,” the judge said to Chang.  Posner, together with Circuit judges  Diane Sykes  and
 Michael Kanne , were hearing the case for the second time. In
2008 they denied appeals by Black and his co-defendants, setting
the stage for the U.S. Supreme Court ruling earlier this year.  Posner challenged assertions from both sides, focusing in
one dialogue with Estrada on the $600,000 payment shared by
Black, Executive Vice President  Peter Atkinson  and Chief
Financial Officer  John Boultbee , ostensibly for agreements not
to compete with purchasers of Hollinger newspapers, for which
there were no corresponding contracts.  Finding of Intent  “They must have found intent to defraud,” Posner said of
the jury, rendering the erroneous honest-service fraud
instruction harmless.  The balance of the money, $5.5 million, was paid to Black,
Atkinson, Boultbee and ex-Chief Operating Officer  David Radler 
for their prospective promises not to compete with a single-
paper Hollinger subsidiary.  Radler pleaded guilty to fraud and testified at the trial.  Estrada argued that if the judges find the honest-services
jury instructions tainted its deliberations, they should also
throw out Black’s obstruction conviction, based upon his removal
of boxes of documents from his Toronto office during the U.S.
government probe.  A jury willing to convict Black for fraud may have believed
it more likely that he was trying to obstruct, Estrada said.  Black, who served more than two years of a 6 1/2-year
sentence in a federal prison in Coleman, Florida, was freed on
$2 million bail by St. Eve on July 21, pending the outcome of
the appeal.  The trial court case is U.S. v. Black, 05-cr-00727, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago). The
appellate case is U.S. v. Black, 07-4080, 7th U.S. Circuit Court
of Appeals (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 