-- Blackstone Agrees to Buy 40% Stake in Brazil’s Patria
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s   a n d   V i v e k   S h a n k a r
-- 2010-09-29T23:08:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/blackstone-said-to-pay-200-million-for-40-holding-in-brazil-s-patria.html
Blackstone Group LP , the world’s
biggest buyout firm, agreed to buy 40 percent of Patria
Investimentos, a Brazilian private-equity and asset-management
firm, to expand in Latin America.  Blackstone, based in New York, will pay $200 million in
cash and stock for the stake in the Sao Paulo-based firm, said a
person briefed on the deal, who asked not to be identified
because the price and other details haven’t been made public.
Blackstone gave no financial details in a statement announcing
the acquisition.  The transaction will enable Blackstone “to benefit from
the fast expanding business opportunities in the country,”
 Stephen Schwarzman , Blackstone’s chairman and co-founder, said
in the statement.  Garrett Moran , who heads the company’s private-equity unit,
told investors last week that Blackstone has created alliances
in emerging markets. This may help boost revenue and profit as
dealmaking struggles to recover from the financial crisis.
Buyout firms worldwide have announced $69.7 billion of
acquisitions this year, compared with $446 billion during the
same period in 2007, the height of the leveraged buyout boom.  Carlyle Group, the world’s second-largest private-equity
company, has stepped up investments in Brazil, whose economy is
expected to grow at the fastest pace in more than two decades
this year. Carlyle, based in Washington, agreed in July to buy a
controlling stake in Brazilian health-care company Grupo
Qualicorp in a transaction valued at $1.2 billion.  Blackstone has dropped more than 60 percent since selling
shares to the public in June 2007. The stock rose 38 cents to
close at $12.37 in New York today.  Valor Economico, a Sao Paulo-based newspaper, reported the
deal between Blackstone and Patria earlier today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alexander Cuadros  in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Kelly  in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  