-- Blankfein Says Clearinghouses May Increase Risks in Crisis
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a   a n d   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2010-09-29T16:55:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/blankfein-says-using-clearing-houses-could-increase-risks.html
Lloyd Blankfein ,  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. ’s chairman and chief executive officer, said using
clearinghouses increase risks in an “extreme” crisis.  “I agree that clearinghouses make things less risky for
the regular crisis, but in an extreme crisis that could affect
the clearinghouse itself” and it’s “dramatically more risky,”
Blankfein said at a finance and regulation conference in
Brussels today. “We have to make sure that something that we do
to reduce the risk in a once-in-a-20-year storm doesn’t increase
the risk in a once-in-a-50-year storm.”  That may be an unintended consequence of the current
regulatory push, Blankfein said, adding that clearinghouses
themselves will need to be regulated and have capabilities to
analyse the risk of financial instruments they clear.  “Otherwise, the clearinghouse becomes the biggest systemic
risk in the world,” he said.  New rules under the Dodd-Frank Act in the U.S., which
became law in July, require most credit-default swap trades to
be backed by clearinghouses in an effort to stem systemic risk.
A separate European Union initiative announced in Brussels on
Sept. 15 will require more swaps to be traded through central
clearinghouses.  Blankfein, 56, also reiterated the call for regulation to
be globally coordinated and “even.” Uncoordinated tightening
of standards for banks may lead to firms trying to take
advantage of the arbitrage by moving businesses to other
locations, he said.  “We don’t want to thwart regulation,” Blankfein said.
“But to the extent that there are different opportunities to
move businesses to take advantage of it, it’s not arbitrage to
thwart. It comes across and feels like a need to compete.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Elena Logutenkova  in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  