-- German Stocks Retreat; Deutsche Bank, Commerzbank Shares Lead the Decline
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2010-09-29T15:47:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/bmw-bayer-henkel-sky-deutschland-may-move-today-german-equity-preview.html
German stocks dropped, led by
banks, amid concern that this month’s rally on the DAX Index has
outpaced the global economic recovery.  Deutsche Bank and Commerzbank AG both lost more than 1
percent. RWE AG sank after UBS AG advised selling the shares.
Beiersdorf AG rallied 4 percent after Procter & Gamble Co. said
it is interested in buying the company.  The benchmark  DAX  Index lost 0.5 percent to 6,246.92 at the
5:30 p.m. close in Frankfurt. The gauge is trading within 2
percent of this year’s highest level reached on August 9 amid
speculation that Ben S. Bernanke and the U.S. Federal Reserve
will use a new stimulus package to boost economic growth. The
broader HDAX Index fell 0.4 percent to 3,165.3 today.  “If economic figures continue to be sufficiently weak,
then Bernanke will come out with $1 trillion or $1.5 trillion in
quantitative easing,”  Philip Gijsels , head of research at BNP
Paribas Fortis Global Markets in Brussels, said in a Bloomberg
Radio interview. “We don’t know if it will be one lump sum or
incrementally. Something will be done if the economy remains
weak.”  Deutsche Bank declined 2.5 percent to 39.26 euros.
Commerzbank lost 1.1 percent to 6.02 euros.  RWE  fell 0.7 percent to 49.83 euros as Germany’s second-
biggest utility was downgraded to “sell” from “buy” at UBS,
which cited the effect on earnings and cashflow of a nuclear
fuel tax and rising costs.  Beiersdorf surged 4 percent to 44.50 euros as Procter &
Gamble Co. Chief Executive Officer  Bob McDonald  said that the
company’s Nivea skin cream is “a terrific global brand.”
Procter & Gamble is interested in acquiring Beiersdorf, though
the German company would “have to come to us,” McDonald said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Adam Haigh at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 