-- Boeing May Take Fourth 747-8 Charge as Analysts See Next Delay
-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2010-09-29T14:30:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/boeing-may-take-fourth-747-8-charge-as-model-delay-may-extend-to-two-years.html
Boeing Co. , whose engineers are
redesigning a part on the new 747-8 jumbo jet, may announce a
fourth financial charge for the aircraft and another delay that
could make it almost two years late.  That announcement may include a delay of another 3 months
to 10 months for a plane that’s more than a year behind, nine
analysts said in a Bloomberg survey. Eight of the analysts also
anticipate a charge ranging from $100 million to $1 billion, on
top of the $2.04 billion in charges already taken.  “This is inexcusable -- they should know that airplane
like any airplane they’ve ever built, and then some,” said
 Howard Rubel , an analyst with Jefferies & Co. in New York who
has a “buy” rating on Boeing shares. “They’ll figure it out
eventually. I just believe the cost and the delay will detract
from what they wanted to accomplish.”  The Chicago-based company is completing the 747-8’s
schedule as it continues to work through two of several issues
that came up in flight testing, and it plans to update customers
and investors soon, Boeing Commercial Airplanes President  Jim Albaugh  said in an interview.  Chief Executive Officer  Jim McNerney  said in July that the
747-8’s schedule was more at risk than the composite-plastic
Dreamliner’s, which the company pushed back last month, saying
it wouldn’t be delivered until the first quarter of 2011. Both
planes were supposed to reach customers by the end of this year.  Six-Month Delay  The analysts in the survey predicted, on average, a six-
month delay for the 747-8 and a charge against earnings of about
$360 million.  It’s only the second plane in the company’s 94-year history
to be in a “reach-forward loss position,” an accounting status
the program entered at the end of 2008 that requires it to
record future plane deliveries at no  profit margin  unless its
profitability improves. It could require Boeing to record
additional charges if the estimated loss increases.  Engineers are redesigning the 747-8’s inboard aileron
actuator, a system on the wings that helps the plane turn and
had moved up and down unexpectedly on one of the jets, Albaugh
said.  They’re also testing new software this week to help control
some oscillation, or vibration, experienced during the test
flights and are “encouraged that we have a solution,” he said.
Vibration can cause a plane to break apart if it amplifies to
become the self-feeding motion termed  flutter , which Albaugh
said isn’t the case for the 747-8.  Wheel Well  Boeing also adjusted the angle of the main wheel well to
address some buffeting during landings, Albaugh said. The two
unresolved concerns, and dozens of more minor ones discovered
since the plane’s maiden flight in February, are “all
addressable issues, but take some time to resolve,” he said.  While Boeing had said that the 747-8’s initial woes were
due to the Dreamliner siphoning away resources, Albaugh said the
team is getting what it needs. The company has had to make more
changes than expected to the fifth variant of the 40-year-old
jumbo jet, he said.  The wing is the longest Boeing has ever built and supports
a stretched fuselage that has 16 percent more room in the
freighter model. The passenger version holds 51 extra seats, for
a total of 467, and carries 26 percent more cargo. Both models
use new  General Electric Co.  engines based on those developed
for the 787 Dreamliner.  “There’s no such thing as a simple derivative,” Albaugh
said in the Sept. 27 interview. “There’s some things you just
can’t model, and that’s why you do the test program.”  The 747 was the world’s largest airliner until the Airbus
SAS A380 superjumbo, which carries more than 500 passengers,
entered service in 2007. The 747-8 offering was launched with an
order from Cargolux Airlines International SA in November 2005.  ‘Trouble for Airbus’  “The 747-8 was designed to cause trouble for Airbus,
taking away purchases from the A380, but now I think it’s caused
more trouble for Boeing,” said  Rob Stallard , an analyst at RBC
Capital Markets in New York. He has an “outperform” rating on
Boeing stock.  Albaugh replaced the 747-8 program chief last month for the
third time in three years, giving the job to  Pat Shanahan , the
head of all of Boeing’s commercial-plane production.  “I just wanted to get Pat, who has access to all the
resources in the company, to drive this over the goal line,”
Albaugh said. “I just want to get this done.”  Boeing has orders for 76 of the 747-8 freighter and 33 of
the Intercontinental passenger version. Albaugh said Boeing is
now in talks with three airlines about both models. The
Intercontinental is scheduled to enter service with Deutsche
Lufthansa AG at the end of 2011, a year later than planned.  Boeing has four freighters doing test flights from a base
in Palmdale, California, because the 787 Dreamliner is using the
Boeing Field testing center in Seattle. The company has begun
building two Intercontinentals in the wide-body factory in
Everett, Washington -- the world’s biggest building by volume,
constructed specifically for the 747 in 1967 -- and is working
on its 12th freighter version.  “We’re in the home stretch now,” Albaugh said. “We’ll be
late on the 787, but once this airplane is delivered, our
customers will be very pleased and will forgive us for being
late, and the same is true on the 747.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susanna Ray  in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net ; 