-- Fortress, MatlinPatterson Fight $1.1 Billion Boston Generating Auction
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2010-09-29T20:12:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/boston-generating-creditors-oppose-auction-of-assets-to-constellation.html
Fortress Investment Group LLC  and
other Boston Generating LLC creditors objected to the bankrupt
power company’s effort to proceed with its $1.1 billion sale to
 Constellation Energy Group Inc.   Boston Generating, a unit of US Power Generating Co., is
moving too quickly to sell its assets and hasn’t ensured it’s
getting the best deal, creditors said in filings yesterday in
U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan.  The sale process “is nothing more than a fire sale of a
fundamentally healthy company,” said MatlinPatterson Global
Advisers LLC, which owns second-lien debt. It called the
Constellation bid “artificially low.”  Boston Generating filed for bankruptcy in August with plans
to sell five power plants in the Boston area to Baltimore-based
Constellation, according to Constellation. Boston Generating
plans to seek higher bids at an auction. It will seek court
approval for the auction process at an Oct. 4 hearing.  Now is one of the worst times for Boston Generating to sell
its assets because of “regulatory uncertainty,” MatlinPatterson
said. New regulations will increase the value of the company’s
assets, it said. Creditors also complained the auction schedule
and rules will discourage competitive bidding.  Lender Backing  The sale is backed by lenders who hold about half of Boston
Generating’s $1.1 billion in first-lien debt, according to court
papers. The company also has about $773 million in second-lien
and mezzanine debt.  Lawrence McDonnell, a Constellation spokesman, declined to
comment on the objection.  John Reese , a US Power Generating
spokesman, couldn’t be reached for comment.  Fortress and CarVal Investors LLC said in their objection
that they are prepared to invest “substantial amounts” of new
equity into Boston Generating as well as provide a loan to the
company during its bankruptcy. They say any sale should take
place only as part of a bankruptcy plan, which would require
creditor support.  The case is In re Boston Generating LLC, 10-14419, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 