-- Most Brazilian Stocks Decline on Europe Debt Crisis Concern; Real Gains
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r   a n d   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 2010-09-29T20:39:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/bovespa-stock-index-futures-fluctuate-on-inflation-data-jpmorgan-upgrade.html
Most Brazilians  stock s fell amid
concern that Europe’s debt crisis will worsen, overshadowing a
recommendation by JPMorgan Chase & Co. advising clients to buy
the nation’s stocks.  Gerdau SA and  Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA ,
Brazil’s biggest steelmakers, sank more than 2 percent.  Net
Servicos de Comunicacao SA , Brazil’s biggest cable-TV provider,
dropped after Embratel Participacoes SA postponed an auction to
buy Net shares until Oct. 7 from today. Declines were limited as
 Itau Unibanco Holding SA  led a rally for banks.  The  Bovespa  stock index was little changed at 69,228.24 at
4:38 a.m. New York time. More than two stocks fell on the index
for every one that rose. The real strengthened 0.2 percent to
1.7031 per dollar. The measure is up 14 percent since June 30,
heading to the biggest quarterly gain in a year.  “The market is now attractively valued, not well owned,
and performance has been held back by a number of overhangs,”
wrote JPMorgan strategists led by  Ben Laidler  in New York in a
research report dated yesterday.  Brazilian stocks fluctuated between gains and losses today
as U.S. stocks retreated on concern the Europe’s most-indebted
nations will struggle to finance budget deficits.  Spain’s top credit rating at Moody’s Investors Service is
at risk as the nation struggles to emerge from recession and
reduce its budget deficit, according to a Bloomberg News survey.
Ireland will announce the cost of bailing out Anglo Irish Bank
Corp. tomorrow.  Brazil Stocks Upgrade  Gerdau fell 2.3 percent to 22.84 reais. Usiminas dropped
2.4 percent to 22.55 reais. Net slipped 2.1 percent to 21.83
reais.  Itau rose 1.8 percent to 39.76 reais.  Brazilian stocks  were upgraded to “overweight” by
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Latin America strategists, who cited
attractive valuations, “moderate” interest-rate increases and
declining political risks.  Brazil’s Bovespa Index has advanced 0.9 percent this year,
trailing the 5.6 percent gain in the MSCI EM Latin America
Index, as central bank rate increases, a slowdown in Chinese
demand, upcoming presidential elections and Petroleo Brasileiro
SA’s $70 billion share sale deterred investors.  Petrobras gained for a third day, rising 3 percent to 27.50
reais. Petrobras wants to develop the Franco field “as fast as
possible,”  Francisco Nepomuceno , head of the Rio de Janeiro-
based company’s exploration and production Europe office, said
in an interview in Lisbon today.  The  Bovespa  index trades for 12.9 times analysts’ earnings
estimates, compared with 12.7 times for the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index of 21 developing nations’ stocks and 15.6 times
for Mexico’s IPC index, according to weekly data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Bovespa trades at 15.1 times the reported profits
of its companies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alexander Ragir  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net ;
 Alexander Cuadros  in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  