-- BP's Dudley Ousts Exploration Head in Post-Spill Reshuffle
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t   a n d   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2010-09-29T16:24:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/bp-s-inglis-steps-down-as-exploration-head-following-gulf-of-mexico-spill.html
BP Plc’s   Robert Dudley  ousted  Andy Inglis , head of drilling at the time of the Gulf of Mexico oil
spill, and set up a safety unit to oversee the company’s
operations in a bid to restore its reputation.  In his first act before taking over as chief executive
officer later this week, U.S.-born Dudley said he was splitting
BP’s exploration and production division in three.  Mark Bly , who
authored an internal  report  into the causes of the spill
released earlier this month, will head the safety division.  “These are the first and most urgent steps in a program I
am putting in place to rebuild trust in BP,” Dudley said in a
statement today. “The changes are in areas where I believe we
most clearly need to act, with safety and risk management our
most urgent priority.”  Dudley is seeking to draw a line under the Macondo well
blowout, which led to the largest oil spill in U.S. history and
left London-based BP facing billions of dollars in estimated
costs and legal claims. Lawmakers have threatened to bar  BP  from
new U.S. offshore leases because of its past safety record. The
U.S. is responsible for about a third of the company’s oil
reserves and 40 percent of production.  “Dudley’s got to make his mark early on,” said  Dougie Youngson , an analyst at Arbuthnot Securities Ltd. in London.
“Inglis is the head of exploration and production, so the buck
would stop with him.”  Shares Advance  BP  rose  3.9 percent to 421 pence as of the 4:30 p.m. close
in London, the highest since Aug. 9. The stock is down 36
percent since the April 20 Deepwater Horizon explosion that
killed 11 workers and spewed crude oil into the Gulf of Mexico
for almost three months.  The safety unit will have “sweeping powers” to monitor
and audit the company’s operations around the world, BP said in
the statement. It will have its own staff embedded in BP’s
operating units and report directly to Dudley. The company will
also examine how it rewards business performance.  “Our response to the incident needs to go beyond deepwater
drilling,” Dudley said in the statement. “There are lessons
for us relating to the way we operate, the way we organize our
company and the way we manage risk.”  Dudley divided Inglis’s former unit into three with an
expanded  management team . Exploration will be led by  Mike Daly ,
a BP veteran of 24 years;  Bernard Looney , who previously ran the
company’s North Sea business, will take charge of development;
and  Bob Fryar  will head up production.  Hopwood Appointment  Andy Hopwood , who helped drive BP’s businesses in
Venezuela, Azerbaijan, Trinidad and North America Gas, was
appointed executive vice president of E&P strategy and
integration.  Inglis will step down from BP’s board on Oct. 31 and leave
the company at the end of the year. He is the second top
executive to stand down after outgoing CEO  Tony Hayward  came
under fire for his handling of the crisis.  “BP will come up with all sorts of fireworks to show that
there will be radical change at the company,” said  Christine Tiscareno , an equities analyst at Standard & Poor’s in London.
“The company is like a huge supertanker that will take a lot of
maneuvering to turn around, but they only have a few weeks to
show they’re different. This is not the end.”  BP pledged to carry out a review of how it manages third-
party contractors after its internal  investigation  into the
accident found the company had direct involvement in just one of
eight judgment errors and equipment failures. BP spread the
blame for the spill to rig owner  Transocean Ltd.  and contractor
Halliburton Co.  Leading Candidate  Before the leak, Inglis, 51, had been seen by analysts as
one of the leading candidates to succeed Hayward.  Under Inglis’s management, BP’s Gulf oil and gas production
rose about eightfold to 400,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day
this year. The producer also more than doubled the water depth
at offshore fields where it pumps oil and gas.  He took over as head of exploration and production from
Hayward in 2007, when the latter was tipped for the top job.
Inglis was Hayward’s deputy for about three years before the
promotion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Swint  in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net 
 Eduard Gismatullin  in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  