-- Brazilian Clown May Stop Laughing After Likely Congressional Election Win
-- B y   M a r i a   L u i z a   R a b e l l o
-- 2010-09-29T19:18:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/brazilian-clown-may-stop-laughing-after-likely-congressional-election-win.html
A Brazilian clown whose punch line
is “It can’t get any worse” may have his likely  election  to
the lower house of congress nullified if he proves unable to
read and write.  A new member of the Party of the Republic, Francisco
Everardo Oliveira Silva, widely known as his character Tiririca,
had the most support among candidates in Sao Paulo state,
according to a Datafolha poll published Sept 19. With 3 percent
backing among 30 million Sao Paulo voters, he could win up to 1
million votes on Oct. 3 in Brazil’s wealthiest and most populous
state. His party forms part of the coalition governing Brazil.  “What does a federal representative do? Actually, I don’t
know,” he says on TV. “But vote for me and I’ll find out,” he
vows, while  dancing  around and saying that if elected he will
help the most needy, including his own family.  The smile could be wiped off Tiririca’s face even if he
wins. On Sept. 25, Sao Paulo’s public  prosecutor  asked the state
electoral court to verify if the clown is able to read and
write. The request was made after Epoca  magazine  published a
story saying that he is illiterate. Brazilian law prohibits
 illiterate people  from running for office.  According to the magazine, the handwriting on Tiririca’s
autograph is different from the text presented to the electoral
court, in which he says he is literate.  Tiririca’s spokesman, Daniela Rocha, did not return calls
for comment on the literacy allegations.  Corruption Scandals  The corruption scandals that frequently burst from Brazil’s
congress might explain why citizens are leaning toward a
“protest vote,” said  David Fleischer , a political analyst at
the University of Brasilia. They ignore the fact that once a
popular candidate wins the minimum number of votes to be
elected, the rest of his support goes to other candidates from
his party, Fleischer added.  “Many people have said they’ll vote for him because one
clown more or less in congress won’t make any difference,”
Fleischer said in telephone interview from Brasilia.  That’s the reason engineer Paulo Roberto Costa, 32, cites
for his plan to vote for Tiririca. Usually a backer of the
Workers’ Party of President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, Costa
says the clown makes a good point when he says the political
scene can’t get any worse.  “I’m disappointed with lawmakers in general,” Costa said
in Sept. 21 telephone interview from Sao Paulo. “What do our
great congressmen do that make them so much better than the
clown? Besides, I’ve always found him very funny.”  Grumpy Child  Tiririca, a slang term that means “grumpy” in Portuguese,
was the nickname given to Francisco by his mother because he was
constantly in a bad mood as a child. Born in the northeastern
state of Ceara, one of seven brothers, he started working at the
age of 8 selling cotton candy and popsicles.  His career as an artist began when the town circus’s clown
didn’t show up for a performance and Costa got the chance to try
out. At the age of 16, he owned a different circus, whose tent
later on caught fire. According to Tiririca’s official  website ,
he went hungry before starting to perform in restaurants,
birthday parties and other events.  In the 1990’s, he became popular with a song that won him a
record deal and several roles on national TV programs.  “I believe all the support comes from those who identify
themselves with my biography,” he said in an e-mailed
interview. “With good will, honesty and hard work, I’ll be able
to make the dream of helping people come true”.  Celebrities  On Oct. 3, more than 135  million  Brazilians will choose the
country’s president, state governors, senators and lower house
representatives.  Besides Tiririca, Sao Paulo voters may elect as senator a
popular singer called Netinho, according to polling service
Ibope. Rio de Janeiro voters signal they’ll give a lower house
seat to Romario, a retired soccer player who was a member of the
national team when Brazil won its fourth World Cup championship
in 1994, said Ibope.  “Some people might say they’re voting for somebody they
know,” said  Marcia Cavallari , chief executive officer of Ibope.
“They’re not just protesting,” she added in a telephone
interview from Sao Paulo.  No Experience  Political parties are well aware that celebrities with
little or no political experience can attract thousands of votes
and win office not only for themselves but for lesser-known
candidates in the same grouping, Cavallari said.  “That strategy captures a larger number of seats, and
candidates with little support manage to get in,” she said Sept
22.  To settle the question of Tiririca’s literacy, Sao Paulo
prosecutor Mauricio Antonio Ribeiro Lopes proposed a test in
which the clown would have to read out loud a paragraph of the
Brazilian constitution. Then he would have to write another
paragraph dictated by someone. The test hasn’t been approved yet
by Sao Paulo’s electoral court, said the court in an e-mailed
statement.  “There’s no time to change the ballots now,” Fleischer
said. “If Tiririca’s candidacy is thrown out, all the votes he
gets will be null.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Luiza Rabello  in Brasilia at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  