-- Brazil Real Rises to Strongest Since November on Inflow Bets, Weak Dollar
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 2010-09-29T13:26:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/brazil-real-rises-to-strongest-since-november-on-inflow-bets-weak-dollar.html
Brazil’s real rose to the strongest
since November after Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said the
country isn’t planning to raise inflow taxes “at this time.”  The real gained 0.3 percent to 1.7035 per dollar at 9:17
a.m. New York time, from 1.7079 yesterday. It touched 1.7001,
the strongest intraday level since Nov. 11.  Central bank President  Henrique Meirelles  said yesterday
that Brazil is considering higher taxes on capital entering the
country. An additional levy wouldn’t be enough to limit the flow
of dollars as the economy grows at the fastest pace in two
decades, and new share sales follow  Petroleo Brasileiro SA ’s $70
billion offer, said  Luiz Gustavo Medina , who helps oversee 250
million reais ($146.8 million) as a partner at M2 Investimentos
in Sao Paulo.  “The problem is that the market is bigger than the
government,” Medina said in a phone interview. “They already
tried lots of things. It’s not enough to reverse the trend.”  Mantega said yesterday the government is studying measures
to contain the appreciation of the real. “Of course all
possibilities are open, but only if the currency behaves in an
inappropriate way,” he told reporters in Brasilia.  Speculation the Federal Reserve will buy securities to
stimulate a sluggish U.S. economy, a strategy known as
quantitative easing, is also hurting the dollar, said  Luciano Rostagno , chief strategist at CM Capital Markets Ltda., the
third-biggest currency trader on the Sao Paulo exchange.  “Apart from Mantega’s declaration, there’s a trend for the
dollar to depreciate against other currencies,” Rostagno said.  In the overnight interest-rate futures market, the yield on
contracts due in January 2012 was unchanged at 11.59 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Cuadros  in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  