-- Brazil Stocks Raised to `Overweight' at JPMorgan; Mexico Stocks `Neutral'
-- B y   L a u r a   P r i c e   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2010-09-29T11:08:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/brazil-upgraded-to-overweight-mexico-neutral-at-jpmorgan.html
Brazilian stocks were upgraded to
“overweight” by JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Latin America
strategists, who cited attractive valuations, “moderate”
interest-rate  increases  and declining political risks.  Investors should hold more Brazilian shares in their Latin
America portfolios than are represented in benchmark indexes,
JPMorgan strategists led by  Ben Laidler  in New York wrote in a
research report dated yesterday. The strategists didn’t include
their previous recommendation in the report and said investors
should keep “underweight” Brazil holdings within their global
emerging-market funds.  Brazil’s  Bovespa Index  has advanced 0.9 percent this year,
trailing the 5 percent gain in the  MSCI EM Latin America Index ,
as central bank rate increases, a slowdown in Chinese demand,
upcoming Presidential elections and Petroleo Brasileiro SA’s $70
billion share sale deterred investors. Those “overhangs” are
receding and may spur inflows into Brazil funds, the strategists
wrote.  Dilma Rousseff , the chosen successor of President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva, is leading voter opinion polls ahead of
the Oct. 3 election.  “The market is now attractively valued, not well owned,
and performance has been held back by a number of overhangs that
are all going,” the JPMorgan strategists wrote. “The rate
cycle has been benign, capitalization process over, and
Presidential election is this weekend.”  The strategists downgraded Mexican stocks to “neutral,”
saying in the report that the country’s “cyclical” economic
recovery has peaked.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
 Laura Price  at 
 lprice3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 