-- British Airways Accelerates Return of Jumbo Jets After Traveling Rebounds
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2010-09-29T14:25:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/british-airways-accelerates-return-of-jumbos-as-travel-rebounds.html
British Airways Plc  will return to
service two of the eight  Boeing Co.  747 jumbo jets it grounded
during the recession as demand for travel rebounds faster than
the company had anticipated.  The 350-seat  747-400 s have been retrieved from storage and
are undergoing maintenance checks, with one to be reinstated at
the end of January and the other a few weeks later, Chief
Executive Officer  Willie Walsh  said today in an interview.  British Airways is among carriers that responded to the
slump by idling jetliners near Victorville on the southern edge
of the  Mojave Desert  in California, where the dry conditions
hamper corrosion. The retrieval of the 747s reflects an outlook
for demand that’s “more positive” than before, Walsh said.  “In some cases we’re just putting capacity back in where
we had taken it out, but we are also looking at new destinations
and will probably make some announcement in relation to that in
the near future,” the CEO said on the sidelines of the MRO
Europe aviation maintenance conference in London.  One of the 747s will be used instead of a Boeing 777 for
flights from the U.K. capital’s Heathrow airport to Dallas,
freeing up the smaller plane to operate a seventh daily flight
to New York John F. Kennedy International Airport, as disclosed
in August, British Airways spokesman  James von der Fecht  said.  “The second 747 is expected to be introduced into our
summer 2011 schedule, but the destination it will serve hasn’t
yet been decided,” he said.  Jumbo Fleet  British Airways has 49 Boeing 747s in its fleet, including
the eight grounded, which are used for long-haul services to
cities including Los Angeles, Johannesburg and Sydney.  Wide-body planes accounted for about 25 percent of the 200
 aircraft  retrieved from storage in May and June as carriers
sought to tap rising demand for long-haul trips and a leap in
cargo shipments. The number of 747s recalled in June exceeded
those mothballed for the first time since January 2009, data
compiled by aviation consultant Ascend Worldwide Ltd. shows.  Walsh said in the interview that he is “optimistic about
the outlook for 2011,” with British Airways poised to begin
services to Cancun in Mexico in November before adding Tokyo
Haneda in February and Buenos Aires in March.  Europe’s third-biggest carrier is lifting winter capacity
about 7 percent from a year earlier but says it will only add
seats where it can do so without depressing prices.  CEO Calls  Walsh said his revelation earlier this month that British
Airways and Iberia Lineas Aereas de Espana SA have identified 12
merger candidates they might pursue once their own combination
is completed has provoked huge interest from industry leaders.  “I’ve had an incredible number of telephone calls from
airline CEO’s asking if they are on the list,” Walsh said.
“The pace of consolidation is going to accelerate.”  British Airways and Madrid-based Iberia have agreed to form
a new company, International Consolidated Airlines Group SA,
subject to the approval of both sets of shareholders, with votes
planned for later this year.  The U.K. carrier, Iberia and AMR Corp.’s American Airlines
have also signed an agreement to start their trans-Atlantic
alliance next month, they said today.  Under the deal, approved by antitrust regulators in July,
the three carriers will share revenue from flights between the
European Union, Switzerland and Norway and the U.S., Mexico and
Canada, irrespective of which of them takes the booking.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steve Rothwell  in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  