-- Buffett, 80, Says Berkshire Hathaway Is `Well-Equipped' for Succession
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-09-29T10:11:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/buffett-says-berkshire-hathaway-well-equipped-for-succession.html
Billionaire  Warren Buffett ,
chairman of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. , said the company’s
management is “well-equipped” for when he and Vice Chairman
 Charlie Munger  step down.  “We talk with the directors every time we meet,” Buffett,
80, said in Beijing today in an interview recorded with state
broadcaster China Central Television. “Majority of our time is
spent talking about the succession question because it’s
enormously important.”  Buffett, in his fifth decade as head of  Berkshire Hathaway ,
said last year he had four candidates to succeed him as chief
investment officer, without identifying the individuals. The
Omaha, Nebraska-based company also said Buffett’s roles as the
company’s chairman,  chief executive officer  and chief investment
officer will be split among at least three people upon his death
or retirement.  Berkshire’s directors are content with the successors that
they’ve talked about, Buffett said today.  “We’re very well-equipped for succession,” he said.
“Just don’t want it to happen too soon.”  Buffett and Munger traveled to China this week to tour the
facilities of automaker  BYD Co. , in which Berkshire holds a 9.9
percent stake.  Bill Gates , who joined them on the trip, and
Buffett also were scheduled to meet with wealthy Chinese
entrepreneurs today to discuss philanthropy in the world’s
fastest-growing major economy.  Berkshire Directors  Berkshire’s directors have a financial interest in making
sure a replacement takes Buffett’s place if they see his
abilities declining, he told CCTV today.  “We have managers who have done very well into their 80s
but we have some other managers who have declined in their
abilities in their low 70s,” Buffett said. “I’m not sure I
could retire because I never really went to work. I enjoy so
much doing what I do.”  A possible candidate to replace Buffett overseeing 
the company’s holdings is  Li Lu , the hedge-fund manager who
helped Berkshire invest in Shenzhen, China-based BYD, the 
the Wall Street Journal reported in July. Munger told the 
newspaper “it’s a foregone conclusion” that Li probably
would become a top investment official at Berkshire.  Li, former president of the Student Congress on Tiananmen
Square, graduated in 1993 from Columbia University, where
Buffett went to business school. The money manager met Munger
after college, and the two exchanged thoughts on investing,
according to an essay Li wrote for the China Entrepreneur
Magazine in May and posted on the website of his hedge fund,
Himalaya Capital.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Liza Lin  in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  