-- German Bonds Fall as ECB Says It Will Less Banks Less Money Than Expected
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2010-09-29T15:30:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/bund-yield-stays-near-3-week-low-on-portugal-ireland-financial-concern.html
German two-year notes fell for a
second day as the European Central Bank said it would lend banks
less money than some analysts estimated, stoking speculation
that borrowing costs will rise.  The yield on the two-year securities reached the highest in
more than a week and Euribor futures fell after the ECB said it
will lend banks 104 billion euros ($142 billion) for three
months, while 225 billion euros of long-term loans expire.
Portuguese bonds rose as the country’s politicians worked to
reach agreement on the 2011 budget.  “The take-up of liquidity was less than expected,” said
 Elwin de Groot , a senior market economist at Rabobank Groep in
Utrecht, Netherlands. “That feeds through to expectations that
a rate hike may be closer than the market was originally
forecasting. It’s pushing up short-term rates and has an impact
on the capital markets.”  The two-year German note yield rose 5 basis points to 0.78
percent as of 3:40 p.m. in London. The 0.75 percent security
maturing in September 2012 fell 0.096, or 90 euro cents per
1,000 euro face amount, to 99.94. The 10-year bund yield fell 2
basis points to 2.23 percent.  The implied yield on the Euribor futures contract expiring
in December 2011 climbed 5 basis points to 1.37 percent as
investors added to bets for higher borrowing costs.  Wary of Lending  Financial institutions have been wary of lending to each
other after Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis fueled concern that
some governments may struggle to refinance their debts. The ECB
is still lending banks as much cash as they need, although the
durations of the loans are shortening. Twelve- and six-month
loans expiring tomorrow won’t be renewed as the ECB phases out
the non-standard measures used to fight the financial crisis.  The Portuguese 10-year bond yield fell 6 basis points, or
0.06 percentage point, to 6.54 percent, narrowing the difference
in yield, or spread, with benchmark German bunds by 6 basis
points to 421 basis points.  Portuguese President  Anibal Cavaco Silva  held meetings
yesterday and today to ask the country’s political parties to
try to reach an understanding on the 2011 budget, according to a
statement posted on the presidency’s website.  While Finance Minister  Fernando Teixeira dos Santos  has
said more revenue will be needed to meet deficit goals, Pedro
Passos Coelho, leader of the Social Democrats, the largest
opposition party, has said he will only support a budget that
avoids new tax increases. The governing Socialists lack a
parliamentary majority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  