-- Buy and Hold Strategy Not Dead Yet for 94-Year-old Equity Investor Zajac
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2010-09-29T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/buy-and-hold-strategy-not-dead-yet-for-94-year-old-equity-investor-zajac.html
Stick with stocks, says investor
Edward Zajac. He should know. The 94-year-old has been trading
for 72 years and said he’s made about $2.5 million.  “I am a live, open-hearted investor,” said Zajac. “I’m
willing to hold that stock 5, 10 years, if I have to.”  Zajac, who lives with his daughter in Henderson, Nevada,
bought his first stock,  Petroleum & Resources Corp. , in 1937
while attending the University of Illinois. He’s invested full-
time since 1968, after retiring from installing computer systems
to travel the U.S. in a recreational vehicle with his wife.  He has stood firm even as many investors fled equities and
hoarded cash since the financial crisis. More than  $600 billion 
have gone into bond funds since the end of 2008, according to
the Investment Company Institute, a Washington-based trade
group. That’s even as 68 stocks in the  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index  paid dividends exceeding the average corporate bond yield
of 3.8 percent as of Aug. 31, more than at any time in at least
15 years, data compiled by Bloomberg and Charlotte, North
Carolina-based  Bank of America Corp.  show.  Individuals can make a profit in the market, according to
Zajac, who said he’s in good health except for “numb feet.” He
researches companies using Standard & Poor’s guidebooks at
public libraries or more recently on a computer at home and
places orders by calling his broker through a 1-800 number. As
of September, his $412,000 portfolio held about 8 bond funds and
50 stocks, including  Dow Chemical Co. ,  International Paper Co. 
and  Microsoft Corp .  EZ Method  He said he’s earned $2.5 million over the years using what
he calls the “EZ investment method” -- after his initials. The
six-step investing strategy fits on an 8-and-a-half-by-11 size
sheet of paper and includes:  Seek firms with promising  products , “like a hula hoop.”  Buy companies with an A or a B  credit rating .  Pick stocks that are at least 25 percent owned by funds and
institutions because that means smart analysts are recommending
them.  Look at the stock’s high and low  closing prices  for the
past two years. Don’t buy if the current cost is near the peak.  “I don’t play anything where the odds are against me.
That’s why I don’t put a nickel in the slot machine,” he said.
“I don’t buy anything on margin. None of this fancy puts,
calls,  futures .”  The  price-earnings ratio , or share price divided by
earnings per share, should be less than 16 while the dividend
yield has to be 2 percent or higher, said Zajac, who only buys
equities that distribute income. He prefers companies that have
paid dividends consecutively for at least 10 years.  “There’s a lot of crime out there --  Enron ,  Madoff ,” he
said. “If a company isn’t paying out money I don’t know if
they’re making it.”  Handwritten Records  Zajac has recorded his earnings in handwritten notebooks
for decades and checks on his investments daily by calling his
broker of almost 20 years, Chris R. Freymuller, a senior vice
president of investments with Wells Fargo Advisors, a unit of
San Francisco-based  Wells Fargo & Co .  “He knows every penny of dividends and interest that hit
his account,” said Freymuller, who is based in Salt Lake City.
“He buys quality blue chips when they’re beaten down and they
pay good dividends and he sells them when they come back.”  Zajac said he bought 100 shares of  Caterpillar Inc.  at $27
in March 2009, for example, and sold them this month at $70.  “I take advantage of opportunities,” he said. “If we
have a second dip like they keep talking about, I’ll be in there
with $100,000.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Collins  in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Levinson at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 