-- Caisse Pension Fund to Target Energy, Resources Investments, Sabia Says
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2010-09-29T13:33:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/caisse-pension-fund-to-target-energy-resources-investments-sabia-says.html
The Caisse de Depot et Placement du
Quebec, Canada’s biggest pension fund manager, plans to increase
investments in energy and minerals to benefit from an expected
commodities boom, Chief Executive Officer  Michael Sabia  said.  “Natural resources, energy, those are areas where we think
there’s an opportunity to play offense because of what the
structural trends are and what our capabilities are,” Sabia
said in an interview at Caisse headquarters in Montreal
yesterday.  The Caisse oversees C$135.8 billion ($132 billion) in
assets including stakes in Quebec gas distributor Gaz Métro LP
and  Suncor Energy Inc. , the country’s biggest oil company.
Energy and materials shares made up more than half of the
Caisse’s U.S.-listed stock holdings of $11.3 billion as of June
30, according to an Aug. 11 regulatory filing.  Since his appointment last year, Sabia has tightened risk
management standards, scaled back the use of derivatives and
exited real estate loans that contributed to losses in 2009.
Those moves, which Sabia calls “defensive,” helped the Caisse
beat its benchmark in the first half of 2010 with a return of
2.3 percent. Two years ago, the fund manager reported a record
loss of C$39.8 billion, or 25 percent.  “Defense is necessary but it’s not sufficient in the long
term,” Sabia, 57, said. “We also need an offensive game
plan.”  Analysts such as  Daniel Yergin , chairman of IHS-Cambridge
Energy Research Associates, predict that energy demand will
climb 30 percent to 40 percent in the next two decades as
incomes rise in emerging markets and the global economy expands.  Marshall Plan  “When the Marshall Plan was launched after World War II
there was a 20- to 25-year run in natural resources and
infrastructure and in our view we are right at the start of
another period like that,” Sabia said.  By 2015, emerging nations will account for a bigger
portion of the global economy than developed countries as
middle-class populations from Southeast Asia to Latin America
expand while public and private investment grows, according to a
Sept. 27 World Bank report.  “You are going to see massive urbanization and the
emergence of a very large middle class in places like China,
Brazil and Turkey,” Sabia said. “Because of those things, you
are going to see demand for natural resources, whether it’s iron
ore or copper, and demand for products that enhance the
productivity in agriculture.”  Sabia, the former CEO of  BCE Inc. , Canada’s biggest phone
company, declined to provide details about his natural-resources
strategy. He said the Caisse is “launching a bunch of work” to
study the matter.  Add Staff  “If we came away convinced we needed to add people, we’d
do it in a heartbeat,” he said. “Natural resources are an area
of considerable interest.”  Excluding its  real-estate  operations, the Caisse has about
700 employees, including about 250 analysts and investment
managers, said  Denis Couture , a spokesman for the firm. About
two-thirds of the Caisse’s net assets are in Canada.  “Because of our exposure to the Canadian economy, we have
built a lot of capabilities around understanding natural
resources and energy-related industries,” Sabia said.  Sabia said the Caisse would also consider investing in
natural resources through its C$17 billion  private-equity  arm.  “If the right transaction comes along and we have an
opportunity to play a role, would we be prepared to take it in a
sector that interests us quite a bit? Sure,” he said.  ‘Show me More’  Sabia singled out  Gaz Métro , which the Caisse invested in
six years ago, as the type of asset he likes. In the nine-month
period ended June 30, Gaz Métro reported net income of C$189.1
million on revenue of C$1.7 billion.  “Gaz Metro is a very well-run utility that generates a lot
of cash,” he said. “It’s a pretty nice investment for a long-
term investor like us. Show me more of those.”  Sabia declined to say whether the Caisse has been
approached or would be interested in playing a role in a
takeover of  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan  Inc., the world’s
largest producer of the namesake fertilizer.  BHP Billiton Ltd.  in August offered $40 billion to buy
Saskatoon, Saskatchewan-based Potash. As of June 30, the Caisse
held 3.51 million Potash Corp. shares.  “We don’t comment on particular transactions,” Sabia
said. “We own positions in a great many companies, and we need
to be prudent in terms of the comments we make.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Frederic Tomesco  in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  