-- California's Whitman Knew Worker Was Undocumented, Lawyer Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2010-09-29T20:40:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/california-s-whitman-knew-former-housekeeper-was-undocumented-lawyer-says.html
A former housekeeper for  Meg Whitman  said the Republican candidate for California governor
knew the worker was in the U.S. illegally for six years and
fired her only after deciding to run for office. Whitman denied
the allegations.  Nicky Diaz, appearing with her attorney,  Gloria Allred ,
made the claim during a press conference in Los Angeles today.
Allred said Whitman was told by the Social Security
Administration in 2003 that the identification number provided
by Diaz was inaccurate and that Whitman ignored the warning.  Whitman’s campaign said she didn’t know Diaz was an
undocumented immigrant until the housekeeper admitted to
falsifying federal immigration documents when she was hired nine
years earlier. Whitman says she fired Diaz in June 2009 after
the admission.  Whitman, the 54-year-old former chief executive officer of
 EBay Inc ., is running against California’s 72-year-old attorney
general and former governor, Democrat  Jerry Brown . The
allegations came hours after Whitman and Brown sparred in their
first face-to-face debate, where the issue of illegal
immigration was one of the key topics.  “I believe Nicky is being manipulated by Gloria Allred for
political and financial purposes during the last few weeks of a
hotly contested election,” Whitman said in a statement. “This
is a shameful example of the politics of personal destruction
practiced by people like Jerry Brown and Gloria Allred. The
charges are without merit.”  Debate Topic  In the debate last night, Whitman said employers who hire
illegal immigrants should be held accountable. Brown said he
supports a federal path toward legalization of undocumented
immigrants.  A Los Angeles Times/University of Southern California  poll 
released Sept. 26 showed Brown with a 49-to-44 percent lead over
Whitman. Her campaign dismissed the poll, saying its sample of
voters under-represented Republicans. A Field  Poll  released
Sept. 23 showed they were tied at 41 percent.  Allred, who  donated  $150 to Brown in 2006 when he ran for
attorney general, represented a Hollywood stuntwoman who during
the 2003 governor’s race alleged sexual harassment by  Arnold Schwarzenegger . She has also represented clients in cases
involving  O.J. Simpson , Scott Peterson,  Charlie Sheen , 
 Tiger Woods  and former Hewlett-Packard Co. Chief Executive
Officer  Mark Hurd .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael B. Marois  in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  