-- California Budget Agreement Remains Elusive as Talks Falter
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2010-09-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/california-budget-agreement-remains-elusive-as-talks-falter.html
Budget negotiations in  California 
stalled yesterday as Governor   Arnold Schwarzenegger  and
Democrats who control the Legislature clashed over ways to ease
ballooning pension costs for state workers.  Schwarzenegger and legislative leaders canceled a planned
closed-door meeting yesterday shortly before it was to begin,
saying aides would meet instead to try to hammer out a
compromise. The governor and the Democratic and Republican
legislative leaders, known as the Big Five, emerged from a 90-
minute meeting in Schwarzenegger’s office late Sept. 27 to say
that pensions remained a sticking point, preventing an accord.  “There are still a few outstanding issues and I know how
frustrated the people are at this,” Senate President Pro Tem
 Darrell Steinberg , a Democrat from Sacramento, said as he left
the governor’s office. “We are down to the narrow of the narrow
and are working through them.”  Schwarzenegger and the lawmakers announced Sept. 24 that
they had agreed to a framework to end a stalemate over a $19.1
billion deficit that has left the state without a budget since
its fiscal year began July 1, the longest it’s ever gone without
a spending plan. They had said they aimed to complete the
details of the agreement by Sept. 27.  Schwarzenegger has said he won’t sign any spending plan
unless lawmakers agree to roll back pension benefits for state
workers to 1999 levels.  Schwarzenegger’s Proposals  The governor has suggested limiting state pension costs by
requiring workers to contribute 5 percent more from their pay,
pushing back retirement age, and basing benefits on the three
years of highest wages instead of one.  Democrats, including Assembly Speaker  John Perez , a former
labor organizer from Los Angeles, have resisted Schwarzenegger’s
demands. They have insisted such changes be made through
contract negotiations with unions.  Schwarzenegger, a Republican nearing the end of his term,
has already brokered similar concessions from unions for 35,000
California workers and is in talks with the largest, the Service
Employees International Union.  “All sides recognize that some pension reforms have to be
put in place and that the budget can’t be balanced without the
necessary pension reform,” Assembly Republican Leader  Martin Garrick  said after leaving Schwarzenegger’s office Sept. 27.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Marois  in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  