-- California's First Inmate Execution Since 2006 Postponed by Federal Judge
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2010-09-29T03:20:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/california-s-first-inmate-execution-since-2006-postponed-by-federal-judge.html
A man convicted of raping and
murdering a teenager in 1982 won a delay of his execution, which
was scheduled for Sept. 30 in California.  U.S. District Judge  Jeremy Fogel  in San Jose, California,
today granted Albert Greenwood Brown’s bid for postponement of
what would be California’s first execution since 2006.  Fogel was ordered by the U.S. Court of Appeals in San
Francisco to determine whether Brown’s execution should be
postponed and whether the state’s revised process for lethal
injection remains unconstitutional.  “Given what is at stake, this court greatly appreciates
the direction of the Court of Appeals that ‘timing is everything
and the district court should take the time necessary to address
the state’s newly revised protocol in accord with Supreme Court
authority,’” Fogel wrote in today’s order.  Fogel suspended lethal injections in the state in 2006,
ruling that the possible pain and duration of the executions may
constitute cruel and unusual punishment and therefore made them
unconstitutional. He ordered California’s  Department of
Corrections and Rehabilitation  to change its method of lethal
injections to resolve his concerns.  On Sept. 27, the appeals court ordered Fogel to apply a
U.S. Supreme Court standard for determining whether to grant
Brown’s request to stay his execution.  San Quentin  Fogel went to San Quentin State Prison in 2006 to examine
the equipment used for executions and to hear testimony about
how execution teams work. Fogel said he learned one team leader
was disciplined for smuggling drugs into the prison and that
another led executions even though he was “diagnosed with and
disabled by post-traumatic stress disorder as a result of his
experiences in the prison system.”  Fogel said San Quentin logs showed that in at least six of
13 California executions, inmates might have been conscious
while being injected with the drugs that killed them, causing
“an unconstitutional level of pain.”  In response, the state revised its procedures and built a
new execution chamber at San Quentin State Prison north of San
Francisco.  Based partly on the record established by Fogel’s inquiry,
Brown argued California’s method of lethal injection continues
to suffer from a “pervasive lack of professionalism,” and that
Fogel can’t simply presume changes made to the protocol make it
constitutional.  Fogel said in his ruling today that “it is virtually
impossible for the court to assess other than in a very
preliminary way” whether Brown can demonstrate, as required by
the Supreme Court, that lethal injections in California risk
“severe pain.”  The case is Morales v. Cate, 06-00219, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Jose).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joel Rosenblatt  in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
 Karen Gullo  in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 