-- Analysts: Campbell's CEO Choice Signals Missed Opportunity
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2010-09-29T20:13:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/campbell-s-ceo-in-waiting-a-questionable-choice-analysts-say.html
Campbell Soup Co.  may have missed
an opportunity by picking  Denise Morrison  to eventually lead the
world’s largest soupmaker, instead of bringing in outside talent
to revive sales, analysts said.  Doug Conant , 59, will step down as chief executive officer
July 31, Campbell said yesterday. Morrison, 56, oversees the
company’s U.S. soup business, whose sales fell 5 percent last
quarter as consumers opted for frozen pizza and microwave
dinners instead.  “I’m not surprised the change has occurred, but I am
surprised at the selection,” said  John Stephenson , who helps
manage $1.6 billion, including  Campbell  shares, at First Asset
Investment Management Inc. in Toronto. “Putting the head of the
soup business in charge of the company doesn’t seem to be the
way to go when you consider this is the business that appears to
have most of the problems.”  Campbell fell 43 cents, or 1.2 percent, to $36.02 at 4 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading . The shares have
gained 6.6 percent this year, compared with a 5.6 percent
increase in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Consumer Staples Index.  Morrison spearheaded a push to cut sodium in soups, helping
Campbell more than quadruple its  products  with lower sodium
levels over the past five years. That has so far failed to lift
sales of ready-to-eat soups, according to analysts including
 Eric Katzman  of Deutsche Bank in New York.  ‘Lackluster Results’  Morrison will become executive vice president and chief
operating officer as of Oct. 1 as she prepares to succeed
Conant. The board considered internal and external candidates,
Conant said in an interview yesterday.  “Denise is an excellent candidate to lead the company
forward, he said. “I have known her for 15 years and recruited
her to both Nabisco and Campbell.”  Morrison has led the North American soup, sauces and
beverage unit since October 2007. It includes the $2 billion
U.S. soup business and accounts for 42 percent of the company’s
$7.7 billion in revenue and about 63 percent of its profit. This
month, Campbell released a full-year earnings forecast that fell
short of some analysts’ projections.  “Their results have been lackluster, and the soup category
has been dismal,”  Jack Russo , an analyst at Edward Jones & Co.
in St. Louis, said in a telephone interview. “You could say the
category is tough, so let’s get some new blood in there. But is
she really new blood?” He recommends holding the shares.  Conant has held the top job for almost a decade, joining
Campbell in January 2001 from Nabisco Foods Co., now part of
Kraft Foods Inc. Early in his tenure, he increased marketing and
research spending to revive soup sales. More recently, he
expanded into Russia and China.  Conant’s Legacy  Campbell has posted profits in every year under Conant,
amassing more than $7 billion in  earnings  since he took over.
Sales rebounded in the year ended Aug. 1 after slumping in the
previous period, hurt by a deepening economic slump that
prompted consumers to cut budgets.  Conant has increased promotional spending and has launched
new advertising to fend off food makers touting other ready-to-
eat meals amid tightened household budgets and high unemployment
in the U.S.  “Soup being a low-growth business isn’t his fault,” said
 Ned Dewees , principal at Douglas C. Lane & Associates in New
York, which manages $2 billion including Campbell shares. “He’s
done a good job with a tough hand.”  ‘Long Enough’  Conant said in an interview that a July 2009 car accident,
in which he broke ribs and sustained other injuries, “didn’t
play a role at all” in his stepping down, a decision completed
at the company’s board meeting in Camden, New Jersey, last week.  “The average CEO lasts four years, so 10 is long enough,”
Conant said.  Morrison has spent more than three decades in the consumer
packaged-goods industry, working for  Kraft , PepsiCo Inc. and
Procter & Gamble Co. She was one of the first women hired as a
sales representative by P&G in the late 1970s to sell its
Pampers diapers and Bounty paper towels, she said in a 2009
interview.  She later worked under Conant at Nabisco, where she
expanded distribution of the company’s cookies, candy and nuts
into convenience stores.  “This is the achievement of a lifelong dream for me,” she
said yesterday in an interview. “I am one of four girls and was
inspired by my father to dream big. Some girls want to be
doctors, but I wanted to run a company.”  Morrison said she will focus on accelerating growth of
Campbell’s brands, which include Pepperidge Farm crackers and V8
beverages, and “capitalizing on global opportunities.”
Countries outside the U.S. account for about one-quarter of
Campbell’s sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Boyle  in New York at 
 Mboyle20@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  