-- Canada Stocks to Trail U.S. Equities, Russell's Chief Strategist Wood Says
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 2010-09-29T15:25:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/canada-stocks-to-trail-u-s-equities-russell-s-chief-strategist-wood-says.html
Canadian stocks are likely to lag
behind their U.S. peers for the rest of the year as Chinese
efforts to cool its economy restrain commodity prices, said
 Stephen Wood , chief market strategist at Russell Investments.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 probably will gain about 6.5
percent through Dec. 31, Wood said, compared with Russell’s S&P
/Toronto Stock Exchange Composite Index forecast of a 4 percent
to 5 percent increase. That means the U.S. benchmark could
 outperform  the S&P/TSX this year for the first time since 2003.  “If you look at the fundamentals of Canada, they’re very
strong,” Wood said in an interview in Toronto yesterday. “But
you’ve got this wild card, this  Damoclean  sword: What is China
going to be able to accomplish? That probably makes the U.S.
percentage-competitive and maybe a little bit better in the
medium term.”  The S&P/TSX rose 1.4 percent in the first eight months of
the year, aided by a 14 percent surge in gold prices, while the
S&P 500 fell 5.9 percent. This month through yesterday, the S&P
500 led developed-market benchmarks with a 9.4 percent jump
while the S&P/TSX advanced 3.1 percent.  That trend should continue over the next several months as
China tightens policy to prevent asset bubbles, said Wood, who
works in New York for Tacoma, Washington-based Russell, which
manages $140 billion.  “It could be a neck-and-neck race for 2010,” Wood said.
“2011 is going to be relatively competitive as well.”  China’s Influence  Energy and raw-materials companies make up  47 percent  of
Canadian stocks by market value. China is the world’s largest
copper consumer and second-biggest user of oil behind the U.S.  Since the S&P/TSX began outperforming the S&P 500 in 2004,
copper and oil prices have more than doubled due largely to
demand from China and other emerging markets.  Since reporting a record rise in property prices for March,
China has imposed restrictions including higher down-
payment and mortgage rates for multiple-home buyers and
instructions for lenders to halt third-home loans in areas with
“excessive price gains.”  “Are they past the halfway point of their tightening
cycle? I think that’s a reasonable expectation,” Wood said.
“Are they at the end of their tightening? I don’t think so.
That will be the end of 2010, beginning of 2011.”  China should successfully ease economic growth to an
annualized rate of about 8.5 percent over the next six to nine
months from  11.1 percent  in the first half of 2010, Wood said.  Strong Currency  In addition, a strong Canadian dollar will discourage
investment flows from other countries, Wood said. The Canadian
dollar has fluctuated between 93 U.S. cents and $1 this year,
compared with a 10-year average of 81.3 cents.  Investors may also be starting to question the premium
Canadian stocks have received over U.S. equities over the past
year. Compared with S&P 500 companies, S&P/TSX stocks now cost
 25 percent  more per dollar of estimated profit over the next
year. Since the end of 2005, Canadian stocks’ premium has been
0.7 percent.  “From a currency perspective, and from a valuation
perspective, is Canada, after six consecutive years of
outperformance, rich relative to expected future growth? That’s
a very good consideration,” Wood said.  Mergers and acquisitions in the natural-resources sector
may jeopardize the forecast, Wood said. A single offer, such as
BHP Billiton Ltd.’s $40 billion unsolicited bid for Potash Corp.
of Saskatchewan Inc., can move the Canadian market enough to
throw estimates off.  Potash Corp. and Red Back Mining Inc., which Kinross Gold
Corp. acquired on Sept. 22, accounted for 134.48 points of the
S&P/TSX’s 561.42-point year-to-date gain through yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Walcoff  in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  