-- Canada's Currency Climbs for First Time in Three Days as Commodities Rise
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-09-29T14:13:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/canadian-currency-climbs-for-first-time-in-three-days-as-commodities-rise.html
Canada’s dollar rose for the first
time in three days versus its U.S. counterpart as commodities
including crude oil, copper and silver advanced, strengthening
the prospects for raw-materials exporters.  The currency, nicknamed the loonie, headed for a gain of
3.8 percent for September. Reports showed manufacturing in China
accelerated for a second month, spurring demand for commodities,
and European confidence in the economic outlook unexpectedly
picked up this month.  “The Canadian dollar is continuing to improve following
better data in China and sentiment in Europe,”  Sebastien Galy ,
a currency strategist in New York at BNP Paribas, said via e-
mail.  Canada’s currency appreciated 0.3 percent to C$1.0268 per
U.S. dollar at 10:12 a.m. in Toronto, from C$1.0297 yesterday.
One Canadian dollar buys 97.39 U.S. cents.  Copper for December delivery added 0.3 percent to $3.65 a
pound. Silver for December delivery in New York rose as much as
1.7 percent to $22.075 an ounce, the highest price since October
1980. Crude oil for November delivery rose as much as 1 percent
to $76.93 a barrel in New York. Raw materials account for half
of Canada’s export revenue, and crude is its biggest export.  Manufacturing accelerated in China in September, with a
purchasing managers’ index released by HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics rising to 52.9, the highest level in five
months. An index of executive and consumer sentiment in the 16
nations using the euro rose to 103.2, the highest since January
2008, the European Commission in Brussels said.  Third-Weakest  The Canadian currency was poised for a 3.6 percent gain
this quarter, the weakest performer after the U.S. dollar and
the Taiwanese dollar among the 16-most traded currencies.
Mexico’s peso is the fourth-worst.  “The Canadian dollar continues to slip on the crosses as a
reflection of a ‘sell North America’ trend that has been evident
recently,”  Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at Toronto-
Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit said via e-mail. The loonie
is “still in a range” versus the greenback and has “not much
incentive to move out of C$1.02 to C$1.0350 for the moment.”  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  speaks tomorrow in
Windsor, Ontario, about employment and the recovery. Traders
will be monitoring the speech for clues about the direction of
interest rates. Policy makers, who raised the key rate to 1
percent in three consecutive boosts, next meet on Oct. 19.  ‘Limits’ on Divergence  Carney said last week there are “limits” to how far U.S.
and Canadian monetary policy can diverge. The Federal Reserve,
which has held the U.S. benchmark at a range of zero to 0.25
percent since December 2008, said on Sept. 21 it’s “prepared to
provide additional accommodation” to spur the U.S. economy.  Carney’s remarks, available on the bank’s website at 12:35
p.m. New York time with a press conference scheduled for 1:50
p.m., will follow the release of Statistics Canada’s gross
domestic product data. The nation’s economy shrank by 0.1
percent in July, the first decrease in 11 months, according to
the median of 22 forecasts compiled by Bloomberg News.  “GDP is expected to be weak and Carney may reference again
the ‘limits’ to Bank of Canada policy independence,” TD
Securities’ Osborne said. “All that could drive a little more
Canadian-dollar softness.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  