-- Business Groups Sue SEC Over Proxy-Access Rule
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2010-09-29T17:56:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/chamber-of-commerce-sues-sec-in-bid-to-reverse-investor-proxy-access-rule.html
The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the
nation’s biggest business lobby, and the  Business Roundtable 
sued the Securities and Exchange Commission to overturn a rule
that makes it easier for investors to oust corporate directors.  The two groups decided to sue after completing a legal
analysis of the regulation, they said today at a news conference
in Washington. The rule, which allows shareholders owning 3
percent of a company to nominate board members on corporate
ballots, was passed by a divided SEC last month.  “These rules are wholly unnecessary,” said  David Hirschmann , president of the chamber’s Center for Capital
Markets Competitiveness. “This special interest-driven rule
will give small groups of special-interest activist investors
significant leverage over a business’ activities.”  The chamber has said that labor unions and public pension
funds would hijack companies and push political agendas if given
more power to nominate directors. SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  has
said the 2008 credit crisis, which cost financial firms more
than $1.82 trillion, shows shareholders need more clout in
picking board members to oversee companies.  Before the SEC approved its rule, shareholders could
nominate dissident directors only by mailing a separate ballot
and persuading other investors to vote with them. Activist
investors such as  Carl Icahn  and  Nelson Peltz  have waged proxy
fights to get their candidates elected to boards of companies
they said were underperforming.  3-2 Vote  The SEC, in a 3-2 vote, stipulated that investors or groups
of shareholders who have owned 3 percent of a company for three
years could have board candidates on proxy statements.  Under the regulation, shareholders would be able to
nominate at least one director and as much as 25 percent of a
board. Investors couldn’t use the rule if their intent is to
oust a majority of board members and take over a company.  The financial-regulation law signed by President  Barack Obama  in July authorized the SEC to let investors place director
nominees on corporate proxies. The law’s language was meant to
make it easier for the SEC to withstand a legal challenge.  The chamber and Washington-based Business Roundtable, which
represents chief executive officers of the biggest U.S.
companies, have retained Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP lawyers
 Eugene Scalia  and  Amy Goodman  to handle the case.  Three-for-Three  Scalia is three-for-three in winning suits against the SEC,
including cases that challenged rules for mutual funds and
fixed-indexed annuities on the grounds that the agency made
procedural missteps in writing regulations.  The proxy rule will be challenged on similar grounds that
the SEC didn’t adhere to federal laws that dictate how agencies
must consider and approve regulations, Scalia said at the news
conference.  The business groups’ suit, filed today in the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia, says the SEC failed to
consider the cost of the regulation for companies and the impact
on the rights of shareholders who don’t want investor candidates
on corporate ballots.  Traditional proxy fights, in which an investor uses a
separate ballot to run a dissident slate of directors, can cost
the biggest U.S. firms as much as $14 million, the chamber said.  Businesses are likely to take on such expenses even in
contested elections triggered by the SEC rule, because companies
will feel obligated to “expend significant resources to defeat
shareholder nominees whom the board believes are unqualified or
less qualified to serve,” the suit said.  The chamber and Business Roundtable asked the SEC to delay
implementation of the rule while it faces a legal challenge. If
the SEC declines to hold off, the business groups will request a
stay from the appeals court, Scalia said. The rule is scheduled
to take effect Nov. 15.  “We believe that the commission’s proxy-access rules are
both lawful and in the best interests of the public and
shareholders,” SEC spokesman  John Nester  said in the agency’s
statement. “The commission will, of course, carefully consider
and timely respond to the motion for a stay.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Westbrook  in Washington at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 