-- Chilean Mall Operator Parque Arauco Plans Expansion in Peru, Colombia
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2010-09-29T22:42:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/chilean-mall-operator-parque-arauco-plans-expansion-in-peru-colombia.html
Parque Arauco SA , the Chilean
shopping center developer and operator, expects Peru and
Colombia to provide the most growth opportunities for the
company in the next five years, Chief Financial Officer  Juan Pablo Spoerer  said.  The Andean countries will comprise about 40 percent of
 earnings  before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
a measure of cash flow, after Parque Arauco completes $453
million worth of projects by 2012, Spoerer said.  “In five years, 60 percent of Ebitda could come from Peru
and Colombia” when including potential future projects that
require board approval, Spoerer said in a telephone interview
from Santiago. “In Chile at the moment we aren’t building any
big malls. The greenfield projects are elsewhere.”  Parque Arauco is pushing into Peru and Colombia as it seeks
to benefit from a growing middle class, a scarcity of retail
centers and strong economic growth, Spoerer said. Peru’s economy
will expand 6 percent next year and Colombia’s 4.7 percent,
according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  In addition to four malls the company is building, Parque
Arauco owns about 43 hectares (106 acres) of undeveloped land,
of which 27 are in Peru alone. The company has also calculated
that it may increase leasable areas in its existing malls by
974,000 square meters.  Capital Increase  “Those projects, once approved, could increase the
investment budget to $1 billion by 2014 and may require a
capital increase or tapping capital markets for financing,”
Spoerer said. The current investment budget will be primarily
covered by asset sales and cash flow, he said.  Parque Arauco  isn’t selling  assets  right now after
completing the sale of its stake in Argentine mall operator Alto
Palermo SA and two office towers in Santiago.  “Our core business is shopping centers so any office
buildings we develop in our new projects could be divested in
the future,” Spoerer said.  Larrain Vial SA, Chile’s best-performing fund manager, is
holding shares of Parque Arauco in a bet that the international
expansion will bolster earnings, helping the stock beat the
nation’s biggest retailers.  Growth Plans  Larrain Vial, owner of three of the top five equity funds
by return in the past year, is overweight Parque Arauco relative
to the Ipsa index on speculation sales in Peru and Colombia will
boost the stock more than SACI Falabella and  Cencosud SA . The
$453 million that Parque Arauco plans to spend to finance growth
through 2012 is an amount equal to about a third of its total
assets and more than the investment ratio planned by the
retailers, according to the companies and brokerage Banchile
Inversiones.  Parque Arauco  trades  at a discount of more than 52 percent
to Falabella and Cencosud based on estimated profit, a sign that
the stock is poised to rally after trailing advances for the
companies in the past year, according to  Felix Lorenzo , a money
manager at Larrain Vial.  “Considering its significant investment plan, there’s
greater earnings growth certainty than other Chilean
retailers,” Lorenzo said in an interview. He helps manage $600
million in Chilean stocks, including Larrain Vial’s  Acciones
Nacionales  fund that has soared 56 percent in the past year,
more than the 42 percent rally for the  Ipsa  and better than 97
percent of competitors.  Profit Estimates  Parque Arauco climbed 2.8 percent to 940 pesos at 4 p.m.
New York time today. The stock trades for 15 times analysts’
 profit estimates , less than 31 times projections for Cencosud
and a ratio of 37 for Falabella, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The stock has climbed 87 percent in the past year,
less than the 97 percent for Falabella and 114 percent for
Cencosud, both based in Santiago.  Parque Arauco’s planned investment in the next two years is
equal to about 30 percent of its $1.5 billion in total assets at
the end of the second quarter, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Falabella plans to spend $1.6 billion on expansion
through 2012, according to a company presentation, equal to 14
percent of its $11.5 billion in assets. Cencosud plans to spend
$3 billion, equal to 28 percent of its assets, according to a
report from Banchile Inversiones.  ‘Upward Spiral’  The stock has lagged retailers because most of its revenue
is tied to fixed rent payments and only 16 percent comes from
tenants’ sales, according to a company presentation in
September. That structure has limited the benefits from
accelerating consumer spending in Chile, Lorenzo said. Chile’s
 retail sales  rose 10 percent in August from the previous year
after climbing 25 percent in July, the most since at least 2002,
according to Chile’s National Chamber of Commerce.  “We’re in the middle of an upward spiral in consumer
demand in Chile, and we like the fact that it’s not holding back
on plans to enter Colombia and Peru,” said  Pablo Solis , head of
research at BCI Administradora General de Fondos SA, which
oversees $2.2 billion and bought Parque Arauco shares last
month. “The company has a lot of upside for 2011.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eduardo Thomson  in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net . 