-- Chile's Economy Is `Back On Track,' Set for 5% Growth This Year, IMF Says
-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 2010-09-29T15:20:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/chile-s-economy-is-back-on-track-set-for-5-growth-this-year-imf-says.html
Chile’s economy is “back on
track” after the global financial crisis and the February
earthquake and is poised to grow this year at its fastest pace
since 2005, the International Monetary Fund said today.  Chile’s gross domestic product, which shrank 1.5 percent
last year, will grow 5 percent in 2010 and 6 percent in 2011,
the Washington-based lender said in a report published on the
central bank’s website. Consumption will grow 6.4 percent this
year and investment will expand 39 percent, the IMF said.  Public and private-sector reconstruction spending after the
8.8-magnitude temblor could continue to support growth, the
lender said in the report. The government’s goal to limit
spending growth next year will help prevent the economy from
overheating and control the peso’s appreciation, the IMF said.  “Strong growth has resumed since the second half of 2009,
and the earthquake caused only a temporary disruption in
economic activity,” the lender said. Chile’s economic strength
“has been underpinned by substantial macroeconomic easing, a
well-capitalized banking system, and absence of imbalances in
the private sector.”  The peso rose 0.2 percent to 484.85 per U.S. dollar at
11:16 a.m. New York time from 485.64 yesterday. Chile’s peso has
appreciated 12 percent in the past three months, beating all
other major Latin American currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Monetary Policy  IMF directors support the central bank’s strategy to
continue raising interest rates, according to the report.  Policy makers on Sept. 16 increased the  overnight lending
rate  by a half-point for the fourth straight month. At 2.5
percent, Chile’s interest rate remains the lowest of major Latin
American economies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  IMF directors “recognized the risk that widening interest
rate and growth differentials with major advanced economies
could result in a surge in capital inflows, and agreed with the
central bank’s approach to let exchange rate flexibility be the
first line of defense,” according to the report.  Chile’s central bank targets  annual inflation  of 3 percent.
Annual inflation will reach 3.7 percent at the end of the year,
then slow to 3 percent at the end of 2011, the IMF said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Randy Woods  in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  