-- China Takes Further Measures to Cool Real Estate Boom
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-09-29T14:15:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/chinese-government-to-speed-up-property-tax-introduction-to-cool-market.html
China will speed up the
introduction of a trial property tax in some cities and then
expand the levy to the whole country to curb rising real estate
prices, the government said, without giving a timetable.  The state also asked commercial banks to stop offering
loans to buyers of third homes and extended a 30 percent down
payment requirement to all first-home buyers, according to a
statement posted on the government website. The down payment
level previously applied only to homes larger than 90 square
meters (969 square feet).  Property prices  in 70 major cities rose 9.3 percent in
August from a year earlier, prompting the government to extend a
crackdown on speculators and multiple home purchases. The state
may implement the property tax soon in cities including
Shanghai, Shenzhen and Chongqing, according to Credit Suisse
Group AG.  “The new measures are not dramatic, but they convey a
clear policy message: Beijing is serious about controlling the
property prices,”  Qu Hongbin , a Hong Kong-based economist with
HSBC Holdings Plc, said in e-mailed comments today. “This
should help damp the expectations” that housing prices will
rise quickly, Qu said.  China will halve the transaction tax for buyers of non-
luxury homes for use as sole residences starting Oct. 1, the
Finance Ministry said in statement on its website today. The
rate will be 1 percent for units of 90 square meters or smaller,
it said.  Exemption Ends  The country will also end an income-tax exemption on
profits from the sale of real estate reinvested within one year,
the ministry said.  Banks will be ordered to stop lending to property
developers that violate industry regulations, the government
said earlier today.  Credit Suisse analysts led by Jinsong Du recommended
“reducing exposure” to Chinese property stocks in the near
term, saying a tax would hurt real-estate market sentiment,
according to a note to clients dated yesterday.  China may announce property taxes as early as the October
National Day holidays,  China Business News  reported Sept. 21,
citing an unidentified person. The break runs Oct. 1 to Oct. 7.  The trial measure, which extends the existing commercial
property tax to homes, is more likely to be implemented at the
start of next year, the Chinese-language newspaper said.  China has since April raised the down payment and interest
rates on second-home mortgages and restricted the number of new
homes residents can buy in some cities.  -- Winnie Zhu ,  Yanping Li , with assistance from  Alfred Cang  in
Shanghai and Dingmin Zhang in Beijing. Editors:  Ross Larsen ,
 Josh Fellman   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Li Yanping  in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7568 or
 yli16@bloomberg.net 
Winnie Zhu in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7013 or
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bloomberg News at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  