-- China Starts Credit Rating Company, Rejects  Moody's, S&P, Fitch Models
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-09-29T12:19:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/china-seeks-to-reform-moody-s-model-with-ratings-company-paid-by-investors.html
China started its first credit
rating company that will charge investors rather than borrowers
for assessments as it seeks an alternative to the model used by
Moody’s Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings.  “It’s become very important to promote reform of the
credit ratings agencies,”  Liu Shiyu , deputy governor of the
People’s Bank of China, said in Beijing today at a briefing
about China Credit Rating Co. “Changing the pay model to
collect from investors is an easy thing to say, it’s much harder
to do,” he said.  The  National Association of Financial Market Institutional
Investors , or NAFMII, is spending 50 million yuan ($7.5 million)
to set up the independently run China Credit Rating venture,
Feng Guanghua, chairman of the new company and deputy secretary-
general of the association, said at the briefing. Within a
decade it will have “corporate governance, advanced rating
technology and rich ratings data,” he said.  Moody’s, S&P and Fitch drew criticism in the U.S. from
investors and officials for assigning top-grade rankings to
mortgage-linked securities that crashed when the housing market
collapsed in 2007. A U.S.  financial-regulation  overhaul enacted
July 21 led ratings companies to tell Wall Street that they will
no longer let underwriters use ratings in asset-backed bond-
registration statements because of increased risk of being sued.  ‘Irrational’ System  The ratings system used by Moody’s, S&P and Fitch is
“irrational” and “cannot truly reflect repayment ability,”
Dagong Global Credit Rating Co. Chairman Guan Jianzhong said in
July, when the Beijing-based company ranked U.S. government debt
below that of China. The Securities and Exchange Commission said
on Sept. 24 that it turned down Dagong’s application for U.S.
debt rating status.  The U.S. risk assessors’ earnings model “causes a strong
beneficial alliance between the issuer and the ratings agency
that cannot avoid influencing the agency’s independence,”
NAFMII said in a draft report seen by Bloomberg News in July.  NAFMII was formed by the People’s Bank of China in 2007 to
help develop the country’s over-the-counter financial markets,
which span bonds, loans, foreign-exchange, commercial paper
market and gold.  Bond sales in China rose to 1.96 trillion yuan last year
from 981 billion yuan in 2008 as the government urged companies
to reduce reliance on bank loans, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. This year companies raised 1.5 trillion yuan from
bonds compared with a combined 7.5 trillion yuan of loans
they’re allowed to borrow from banks.  Two of China’s five official ratings companies have
overseas partners, according to  Song Fengming , a director at the
China Center for Financial Research. China Chengxin
International Credit Rating Co. is a venture with Moody’s while
 China Lianhe Credit Rating Co.  has Fitch as its partner.  Leslie Tan, a spokesman for Fitch Ratings in Singapore and
Lisa Coory, a spokeswoman for S&P in Hong Kong declined to
comment. Eleanor Sheung, a spokeswoman for Moody’s in Hong Kong
wasn’t immediately available for comment.  -- Henry Sanderson . Editors:  Hugh Chow ,  Will McSheehy   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Sanderson  in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at   wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  