-- China, U.S. Turn to Maritime Agenda as Military Talks Resume
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2010-09-29T23:12:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/china-u-s-resume-military-talks-after-break-over-sales-of-arms-to-taiwan.html
The U.S. and China will confer on
maritime issues next month as the two countries resume military
talks broken off after the Obama administration announced an
arms sale to Taiwan earlier this year, a Pentagon spokesman
said.  That discussion will be followed by full “defense
consultative talks” in Washington later this year like those
held last year in Beijing, Marine Corps Colonel  David Lapan 
said. The June 2009 sessions marked the first in 1½ years after
a previous China-imposed hiatus following a U.S. weapons sale to
Taiwan.  The U.S. is seeking more stable and regular contacts to
deal with  issues  such as China’s military buildup, territorial
disputes and access to the seas that threaten to undermine
regional stability.  Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for East Asia  Michael Schiffer  agreed with his Chinese counterpart, Foreign Affairs
Office Director Major General  Qian Lihua , in Beijing this week
to revive discussions, Lapan said yesterday. The two sides aim
to maintain “sustained and reliable” ties, he said.  “Both sides agreed that dialogue is essential to build
mutual trust and reduce the chances of misunderstanding and
miscalculation,” Lapan said in an e-mailed statement.  Military ties between the U.S. and China have faltered even
as President  Barack Obama  seeks better relations on a range of
issues including trade, climate change and defense. Obama is
preparing to host Chinese President  Hu Jintao  for a state visit
in Washington, possibly in January.  China restricted military ties after the administration
notified Congress in January that it plans to sell Taiwan $6.4
billion of weapons including advanced  Lockheed Martin Corp. 
Patriot missiles and  United Technologies Corp.  UH-60 Black Hawk
helicopters.  Gates Meeting  The decision to revive contacts comes as U.S. Defense
Secretary  Robert Gates  prepares for a meeting with Southeast
Asian counterparts and Chinese Defense Minister  Liang Guanglie ,
in Hanoi next month.  The two sides so far have agreed to discuss a “broad range
of topics including ways to improve operational safety for
sailors and airmen on both sides,” Lapan said. The maritime
talks are set for Oct. 14-15 in Hawaii. No date has been set for
the Washington meeting.  Defense Department officials have said they hope to achieve
more consistency in military relations with China.  While yesterday’s statement said both sides affirmed that
“consistent” military contact is “essential” to improved
relations based on goals set out by Obama and Hu, the Pentagon
didn’t indicate whether China agreed to stop the practice of
suspending talks over disagreements.  “The U.S. side stressed the importance and mutual value of
maintaining continuous dialogue,” Lapan said in the e-mailed
statement. The U.S. “suggested that as the military
relationship matures, the two sides develop it in a manner that
breaks the on-again, off-again cycle that has characterized the
U.S.-China military-to-military relationship to date.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva4@bloomberg.net  