-- China Says U.S. Yuan Legislation Will Hurt World Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-09-30T09:35:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/china-currency-bill-to-have-limited-economic-impact-u-s-agency-reports.html
China said a measure passed by the
U.S. House of Representatives yesterday aimed at pushing up the
value of the yuan will hurt the global economy if it becomes law.  The House of Representatives voted yesterday for a measure
that would let domestic companies petition for duties on  imports
from  China to compensate for the effect of a weak yuan. China
said the legislation would do nothing to cut the U.S. trade
deficit and only risk harming growth. The Senate won’t take up
its version until after the November election, said Senator
 Charles Schumer , a New York Democrat.  “We firmly oppose the U.S. Congress approving such
bills,” Foreign Ministry spokeswoman  Jiang Yu  told reporters
today in Beijing. “We urge the U.S. congressmen to be clearly
aware of the importance of China-U.S. trade and economic
relations, resist protectionism so as to refrain from any damage
to the interests of both peoples and people around the world.”  The  348-79  House vote highlights growing trade tensions
between the world’s two biggest economies. The U.S. is enduring
persistently high unemployment and a surge this year in the
trade  deficit  with China, which rose 27 percent to $25.9 billion
in July from a year ago.  House Ways and Means Committee Chairman  Sander Levin 
yesterday said the bill “says very concretely is that we mean
business” and will “send a message” to global leaders to make
progress on currency values at a summit next month.  ‘Serious Concerns’  President  Barack Obama ’s administration, which hasn’t taken
a position on the bill, acknowledged the sentiment. The vote
“clearly shows lawmakers have serious concerns about this
issue,” Treasury Department spokeswoman  Natalie Wyeth  said in
an e-mail. Democrats were joined by 99 of the 178 Republicans on
the vote.  China’s central bank pledged in a statement yesterday it
will expand flexibility of the yuan, which has gained 2 percent
since a two-year dollar peg was scrapped on June 19.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has called the
appreciation inadequate, and economists such as  C. Fred Bergsten 
at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in
Washington say the yuan is undervalued by as much as 25 percent.  The yuan weakened today for the first time in 13 days,
dropping 0.1 percent to 6.6933 per dollar as of 10:00 a.m. in
Shanghai. The central bank set the reference rate for daily
trade weaker for the first time in three days.  ‘Government’s Attitude’  “The fixing shows the Chinese government’s attitude
towards the vote,” said  Liu Li-gang , a Hong Kong-based
economist at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. “China
wants to show it won’t yield to any foreign pressure. It will
determine the policy based on its own economic fundamentals.”  The yuan had gained 1.5 percent in the 11 trading days
before the vote. That rate of appreciation hasn’t satisfied
China’s critics in the U.S.  Obama said yesterday at an event in Des Moines, Iowa, that
he is “pushing China about their currency” because the Chinese
are managing the yuan “in ways that make our goods more
expensive to sell.”  Chinese Commerce Ministry spokesman  Yao Jian  said China
doesn’t undervalue the yuan to gain a trade advantage and the
bill won’t eliminate the U.S. gap. He said the legislation
violates  World Trade Organization  rules and said the U.S.
deficit was a result of changes in the global supply structure.  China’s Rebuttal  “China has a trade surplus with the U.S., but huge
deficits with a number of Asian countries and regions,” Yao
said. One-sided trade restrictions won’t solve the imbalance and
the U.S. should instead lift restrictions on exports and work
more actively with China, he said.  China this year has run up a $145 billion  trade surplus 
with the U.S., more than the U.S. deficit with the next seven-
largest trading partners combined. That gap, combined with the
drop in American manufacturing employment, the lack of
appreciation in the yuan and this year’s congressional elections
have focused lawmakers’ attention on the commercial relationship.  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, retailers, apparel importers
and financial firms opposed the currency bill, and wrote
lawmakers before the vote saying passage may lead to retaliation
against businesses with investments in China or exporters of
farm and manufactured goods.  ‘Real Concerns’  “There are real concerns about how effective this will be
and whether it will induce China to change its currency
regime,” Representative  Kevin Brady , a Texas Republican, said
during debate on the bill. “This is no substitute for a
comprehensive China policy, and that’s been sorely lacking from
this administration.”  Backers of the measure say some companies will benefit, and
the goal is to prod China to raise the value of the yuan and get Obama  to put more pressure on the Chinese to act.  Obama pressed China’s Premier  Wen Jiabao  in a two-hour
meeting at the United Nations Sept. 23 to increase the yuan’s
value. Wen said a day earlier that a 20 percent increase in the
currency would cause severe job losses and trigger social
instability in China.  The legislation is H.R. 2378.  -- Mark Drajem ,  Michael Forsythe ,  Li Yanping . With assistance
from in  Judy Chen  in Shanghai and  Kim Chipman ,  Nicholas Johnston 
and  Hans Nichols  in Washington. Editors:  Steve Geimann ,  John Brinsley .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Drajem  in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  