-- China Day Ahead: U.S. Passes Yuan Bill; Property Curbs; Goldman Sells ICBC
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-09-29T23:12:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/china-day-ahead-u-s-passes-yuan-bill-property-curbs-goldman-sells-icbc.html
The U.S. House of Representatives
passed legislation prodding China to raise the value of the yuan,
as Democratic lawmakers pressed election-season proposals they
said would increase factory employment.  The measure on China’s currency passed 348-79, with 99
Republicans voting with Democrats. It’s the first time the House
passed such legislation after years of vows to do so by
lawmakers in industrial states such as Ohio, Michigan and
Pennsylvania.  “For many, many years we have watched the China trade
deficit grow and grow and grow, and today we are doing something
about it,” House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi , a San Francisco Democrat,
said before the vote.  Property Curbs  China will speed up the introduction of a trial property
tax in some cities and then expand the levy to the whole country
to curb rising real estate prices, the government said, without
giving a timetable.  The state also asked commercial banks to stop offering
loans to buyers of third homes and extended a 30 percent down
payment requirement to all first-home buyers, according to a
statement posted on the government website. The down payment
level previously applied only to homes larger than 90 square
meters (969 square feet).  Property prices in 70 major cities rose 9.3 percent in
August from a year earlier, prompting the government to extend a
crackdown on speculators and multiple home purchases. The state
may implement the property tax soon in cities including
Shanghai, Shenzhen and Chongqing, according to Credit Suisse
Group AG.  Goldman Sells ICBC  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  is seeking to reap HK$15.9 billion
($2.05 billion) from selling shares in  Industrial & Commercial
Bank of China Ltd.  in a transaction that would give it a
fourfold return on its 2006 investment.  Goldman Sachs is offering 2.75 billion shares at HK$5.70 to
HK$5.79 apiece, according to a term sheet for the proposed sale.
The offer represents a discount of as much as 4.5 percent from
yesterday’s closing price in Hong Kong for the world’s largest
lender by market value.  Saskatchewan Potash Concerns  The Canadian province of Saskatchewan has concerns about a
possible purchase of  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.  by China,
Premier  Brad Wall  said.  “They are a major purchasing country and we have concerns
about that type of arrangement,” Wall said at a news conference
in Saskatoon. “China has done a good job of balancing its
interests.”  Buffett in Beijing  Warren Buffett  said the meeting he and  Bill Gates  had in
Beijing with 50 Chinese leaders in business and philanthropy
“was a complete success,” according to a release from the Bill
&  Melinda Gates  Foundation.  “We had a terrific exchange of views, and learned a great
deal about the good work that is already underway,” Buffett
said, according to the e-mailed release. “Today’s generation of
successful entrepreneurs has the chance to lead and inspire
giving for generations to come.”  Chicken Quotas Invalid  U.S. restrictions on imports of Chinese chicken, turkey and
duck that are no longer in place broke global commerce rules,
the World Trade Organization said.  WTO judges in Geneva agreed with China that a congressional
spending bill preventing authorities from processing shipments
of cooked Chinese poultry unfairly closed the American market.
China, the third-biggest market for U.S. farm goods, called the
measure discriminatory and protectionist because its poultry met
international health standards and it was shipping chicken to
Europe and Japan.  China Saudi Oil  China’s imports of oil from Saudi Arabia, the world’s
largest crude exporter, will increase 19 percent in 2010 from
last year, the official  Saudi Press Agency  reported.  Chinese imports will increase to 50 million metric tons
compared with 41.95 million tons last year, the Riyadh-based
news service said, citing  Yang Honglin , China’s ambassador to
Saudi Arabia.  Satcon GCL Poly  Satcon Technology Corp.  rose the most in seven weeks in
Nasdaq trading after the maker of solar-power inverters reached
an agreement for GCL Solar Systems Ltd. to produce the devices
in China.  GCL, a developer of solar plants, will commission a factory
in Nanjing with capacity to build more than 500 megawatts of
Satcon inverters next year, the Boston-based company said in a
statement. Financial terms weren’t disclosed.  MARKETS:  U.S. stocks fell, trimming the best September rally for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index since 1939, amid concern that
Europe’s debt crisis will worsen and the profit outlook for
banks and retailers is deteriorating.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Wells Fargo & Co. paced losses in
financial companies. Urban Outfitters Inc. slumped 7.3 percent
as Hennes & Mauritz AB, Europe’s second-largest clothing
retailer, said third-quarter profitability missed analysts’
estimates. Benchmark indexes fluctuated earlier as energy
companies rallied on higher oil prices and Hewlett-Packard Co.
surged after its earnings forecast topped estimates.  The  S&P 500  fell 0.3 percent to 1,144.72 at 4 p.m. in New
York. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  declined 22.86 points, or
0.2 percent, to 10,835.28  THE FOLLOWING STOCKS MAY BE ACTIVE TODAY:  Developers: China will speed up the introduction of a trial
property tax in some cities and then expand the levy to the
whole country to curb rising real estate prices, the government
said, without giving a timetable.  China Vanke Co.  (000002 CH): The nation’s largest publicly
traded real estate developer fell 1 percent to 7.81 yuan.  Steel producers: China’s steel production is expected to
fall until the end of this year, boosting steel prices, China
National Radio reported, citing a government report.  Baoshan Iron & Steel Co.  (600019 CH): The listed unit of
China’s second-biggest steelmaker rose 1.2 percent to 6.54 yuan.  Bank of Ningbo Co.  (002142 CH): The bank has won approval
from the China Banking Regulatory Commission to establish a
branch in the eastern city of Wuxi, it said in a statement to
the Shenzhen Stock Exchange. The stock fell 0.3 percent to 11.59
yuan.  CK Life Sciences International  (Holdings) Inc. (775 HK):
The biotechnology products maker said it will place 40 million
shares in  Ruinian International Ltd ., a 3.82 percent stake,
raising a net HK$257 million. The stock fell 1.1 percent to 45.5
Hong Kong cents  Finet Group Ltd . (8137 HK): The financial information
services provider said it will raise HK$30.7 million in a
placing of 73 million new shares at 42 Hong Kong cents each. The
stock was suspended yesterday.  Freeman Corp.  (279 HK): The real estate and securities
investment company said it will raise HK$38.1 million in a fully
underwritten private sale of 189 million shares at 32 Hong Kong
cents each. The stock gained 2.7 percent to 38 Hong Kong cents.  Sichuan Expressway Co . (107 HK): The toll-road operator
said it plans to issue debt financing instruments equal to as
much as 40 percent of its net asset value. The stock fell 2.7
percent to HK$5.43.  Sinofert Holdings Ltd . (297 HK): The fertilizer maker said
it entered into an agreement to buy additional potash
fertilizers from Canpotex Ltd. for up to $75 million. The stock
gained 1.6 percent to HK$4.54.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bruce Grant at   bruceg@bloomberg.net . 