-- China Manufacturing Accelerates for a Second Month, HSBC PMI Survey Shows
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-09-29T03:49:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/china-manufacturing-accelerates-for-a-second-month-hsbc-pmi-survey-shows.html
Manufacturing accelerated in China
for a second straight month in September, adding to signs the
fastest-growing major economy is stabilizing after policy makers
curbed lending in an effort to avert asset bubbles.  A purchasing managers’ index  released today by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics rose to 52.9, the highest
level in five months, from 51.9 in August. The data are
seasonally adjusted and readings above 50 indicate an expansion.  Government pledges this month to ensure the completion of
construction projects under a fiscal-stimulus plan and to
increase public housing may add momentum. China’s growth has
helped pull in  imports  from around the world, preventing a
deeper moderation in the global recovery, and today’s report
contrasts with evidence of a deteriorating outlook for Japanese
manufacturers.  “This is the beginning of a multi-month upswing in the
PMIs for China as Beijing strengthens its commitment to complete
stimulus projects,” said  Glenn Maguire , chief Asia Pacific
economist at Societe Generale SA in Hong Kong. “The HSBC PMI is
consistent with the floor having been established beneath
Chinese economic activity.”  Stocks in China and across Asia, which had risen earlier in
the day, retained their gains after the report. The benchmark
 Shanghai Composite index  of shares advanced 0.6 percent to
2,627.7 as of 11:01 a.m. local time. The measure tumbled 27
percent in the first half of the year on concern Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s efforts to counter asset bubbles would hurt the economy.  Profits Grow  Earlier this week, the government reported that industrial
companies’ profits climbed 55 percent in the first eight months
of 2010 from a year earlier, giving them firepower to step up
investment spending.  A separate  government-backed PMI  is scheduled to be
released on Oct. 1. The index, released by the National Bureau
of Statistics and the Federation of Logistics and Purchasing,
may rise to 52.5 from an August reading of 51.7, according to
the median forecast of 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  China’s car-sales growth accelerated for the first time in
five months in August, according to data from the China
Association of Automobile Manufacturers. Auto sales in China is
set to outpace the U.S. for a second year, spurring carmakers
including PSA Peugeot Citroen,  Toyota Motor Corp.  and Nissan
Motor Co. to boost capacity or plan new models.  Accelerated Projects  China’s top economic planner, the  National Development and
Reform Commission , earlier this month told its local branches to
speed up projects under a two-year stimulus plan that ends this
year. Policy makers are drafting economic policies and
investment plans for the five years starting in 2011.  Today’s release showed little evidence of a campaign by
regulators to meet year-end goals for energy reduction, which
had slowed industrial-production gains earlier this year.  “This is stronger than expected, and signals strong
underlying demand,” said  Shen Jianguang , a Hong Kong-based
economist with Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. Shen also said that
indications in the report of building inflationary pressure
support the case for the central bank to raise interest rates in
the first half of next year.  The output-price index in today’s report jumped to an
eight-month high, reflecting higher costs of raw materials
including steel and copper. The measure rose to 59.4 from 52.3
in August, while the input-price gauge soared to 67.7 from 56.2,
according to an e-mailed report by HSBC economist  Qu Hongbin .  PBOC’s Stance  China’s central bank has so far avoided following
counterparts from South Korea, Taiwan, Malaysia and India across
the region in raising borrowing costs as Asia led the global
recovery. The government has instead relied on guidance to banks
to tamp down credit growth, targeting a 22 percent reduction in
new loans after a record credit expansion in 2009.  The People’s Bank of China has also raised banks’ reserve
ratios and tightened mortgage rates for multiple home buyers.
Economic growth slowed to 10.3 percent last quarter from an
annual pace of 11.9 percent in the prior three months.  The purchasing managers’ index is based on data compiled
from monthly replies to questionnaires sent to purchasing
executives in over 430 manufacturing companies. The data track
back to April 2004.  Manufacturing in the U.S. probably slowed in September,
with the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey indicating
the Institute of Supply Management will say Oct. 1 that its PMI
retreated to 54.5 from 56.3 in August.  In Japan, large manufacturers anticipate pessimists will
outnumber optimists in the quarterly Tankan survey due in
December. The September Tankan, released today, showed the
smallest gain in the sentiment index in six quarters.  Strengthening Chinese growth may amplify calls abroad for
China to allow a faster pace of gains in the yuan. The currency
has appreciated about 2 percent against the dollar since the
PBOC in June pledged to allow greater flexibility after
maintaining a peg for two years.  U.S. lawmakers aim to vote this month on a bill letting
American companies seek protection against imports from
countries judged to have misaligned exchange rates.  -- Li Yanping . With assistance from  Jay Wang  in Singapore and
 Sophie Leung  in Hong Kong. Editors:  Chris Anstey ,  Stephanie Phang   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Li Yanping  in Beijing at 
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  