-- Citigroup Is Failing to Invest Enough in Franchise, Mayo Says
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2010-09-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/citigroup-is-failing-to-invest-enough-in-franchise-mayo-says.html
Citigroup Inc. isn’t spending
enough on its computer equipment, ATMs, real estate and other
things that make up its franchise, said  Mike Mayo , the analyst
who complained last month that the bank wouldn’t meet with him.  A reduction in capital expenditures to $1.1 billion last
year from as much as $4.04 billion in 2006 means Citigroup’s
physical assets are depreciating faster than investments to
improve the bank’s operations, he said. That may lead to “an
infrastructure that may be outmoded compared to its
competitors,” Mayo, who covers Citigroup for Credit Agricole
Securities in New York, wrote in his report released yesterday
before his meeting with bank executives tomorrow.  “How much is Citigroup running the company for the long
term?” Mayo wrote, citing that competitor  Bank of America Corp. 
is spending about $2 billion a year on capital expenditures,
nearly twice as much as Citigroup. It “raises new questions as
to whether Citi is putting enough resources back into the
franchise.”  The analyst said in August that he doubted the third-
biggest U.S. bank’s trustworthiness because he wasn’t given the
chance to meet privately with Citigroup’s  senior management  for
almost two years. Analysts are typically able to do so “in
about 21 months,” Mayo said in the note to clients.  “Mr. Mayo is just flat-out wrong.” according to a statement
from Citigroup spokesman  Jon Diat . “During 2006-07, we committed
the resources to build several large data centers as part of a
strategy to centralize our technology. That ‘large ticket’
spending is now completed and we are concentrating on developing
platforms that support our global businesses instead of
continuing the past practices of having platforms built for each
local business.”  Mayo rates  Citigroup  “underperform” with a 12-month price
estimate of $3.50. The bank last closed at that price on March
5. Citigroup shares rose 1 percent to $3.92 at the close of
trading yesterday in New York.  “One solution may involve Citi taking more of an earnings
hit to ensure longer-term stability,” he wrote in yesterday’s
report. “Though we look for management color on its investing
patterns and goals for the long term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tara Lachapelle  in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  