-- Collahuasi Contract Workers May Renew Protests at Chile Mine
-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e
-- 2010-09-29T19:46:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/collahuasi-contract-workers-may-renew-protests-at-chile-mine.html
Contract workers at  Minera Dona
Ines de Collahuasi , the world’s fourth-largest copper mine, may
renew protests next month over pay and living standards as the
Chilean company focuses on negotiations with salaried employees.  Collahuasi, which is owned by Anglo American Plc and
Xstrata Plc, still hasn’t met contractors’ demands following a
protest in May that disrupted output, said Victor Reyes, a
spokesman for the workers. Company spokeswoman Bernardita
Fernandez said the mine set a minimum wage for contractors of
250,000 pesos ($515) a month and improved living standards.  “There could be a protest,” Reyes said yesterday in a
telephone interview from Iquique, Chile. “We still feel
discriminated against.”  Contract workers blocked access to Collahuasi for five days
in May, forcing the company to declare force majeure on copper
shipments. Force majeure is a legal clause allowing producers to
miss deliveries because of circumstances beyond their control.  Contract employees plan to meet next month with salaried
workers, whose contract is set to expire Oct. 30, Reyes said.
Contractors hope the meeting will pressure company negotiators
seeking to reach a settlement with union workers before they are
legally entitled to go on strike, he said. The last meeting
between the two groups led to the May protests, he said.  Collahuasi will focus on talks with its regular employees,
Fernandez said.  “We can’t interfere with who they decide to meet,” she
said by telephone from Antofagasta, Chile. The company will
respond to a wage proposal from its workers by Oct. 6, she said.  Collahuasi produced 535,000 metric tons last year, or 3.5
percent of world output, according to Standard Bank Plc. Anglo
American and Xstrata each own 44 percent of the mine and a group
led by Mitsui & Co. holds the rest.  BHP Billiton Ltd.’s Escondida mine is the world’s largest
copper mine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Craze  in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  