-- Corn Futures Advance as Demand Increases After Price Falls to Two-Week Low
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2010-09-29T19:52:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/corn-futures-advance-as-demand-increases-after-price-falls-to-two-week-low.html
Corn futures rose after a price
slump to a two-week low spurred demand for the grain to make
fuel and feed for cattle, hogs and poultry.  Gasoline surged the most in eight weeks after a U.S.
government report showed an unexpected decline in supplies. U.S.
farmers halted corn sales after the price touched the lowest
level since Sept. 14.  “The rally in gasoline will help boost ethanol demand and
usage of corn,” said  Mark Schultz , the chief analyst for
Northstar Commodity Investment Co. in Minneapolis. “Farmers
just stopped selling today.”  Corn futures for December delivery rose 5 cents, or 1
percent, to close at $5.05 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the Chicago
Board of Trade. On Sept. 27, the most-active contract reached
$5.2875, the highest price since September 2008.  Earlier, the commodity fell as much as 2.8 percent on
speculation that the harvest under way in the U.S., the world’s
biggest grower and exporter, will exceed prompt demand.  An estimated 27 percent of the crop was collected as of
Sept. 26, up from 18 percent a week earlier and the previous
five-year average of 15 percent, the U.S. Department of
Agriculture said this week. Mostly dry weather will aid
harvesting the next two weeks,  T-Storm Weather LLC  said.  Some grain companies in central Illinois are paying a
premium of 38 cents a bushel above spot prices for corn
delivered in the first two weeks of December, Schultz said.  “Consumers are jumping back into the market to cover their
needs before prices rise later this year,” Schultz said.  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $48.6 billion in
2009, government figures show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 