-- Cornell University Investments Gain 13%, Beating Returns at Harvard, Yale
-- B y   G i l l i a n   W e e
-- 2010-09-29T19:08:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/cornell-university-investments-gain-13-beating-returns-at-harvard-yale.html
Cornell University’s investments
rose 13 percent in the year ended June 30, beating the returns
at Harvard and Yale, the two richest U.S. universities.  The fund’s long-term investments were valued at $4.4
billion as of June 30, the Ithaca, New York, school said today
in an e-mailed statement. The $27.4 billion fund at Harvard, in
Cambridge, Massachusetts, gained 11 percent, while the $16.7
billion fund at Yale, in New Haven, Connecticut, increased 8.9
percent, the worst performance among the six Ivy League schools
that have reported returns so far.  Cornell generated an average annual return of 4.6 percent
in the five years through June, compared with the 4.7 percent
gain at Harvard and the 3.1 percent median return of public
and corporate pensions, endowments and foundations tracked
by Wilshire Associates Inc., a consulting firm in Santa Monica,
California.  “These strong results were a consequence of asset
allocation decisions made to protect the university during the
financial crisis while also allowing for growth as conditions
improved,” the school said in the statement. “The portfolio is
well positioned to take advantage of opportunities that may
arise as well as to continue to meet the needs of the
university.”  James Walsh , Cornell’s former chief investment officer,
stepped down at the end of the academic year and started a $150
million hedge fund, Cayuga Capital Partners in London. Senior
investment officers A.J. Edwards, David McNiff and  John Regan 
are running the endowment on an interim basis.  Ivy League  The Ivy League consists of eight private schools in the
northeastern U.S. Columbia University’s $6.5 billion endowment
jumped 17 percent in the past year, while the University of
Pennsylvania’s $5.7 billion fund gained 13 percent. Dartmouth
College reported a 10 percent return for its $3 billion fund.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of stocks rose 12 percent in the
year ended June 30.  Princeton University in New Jersey and Brown University in
Providence, Rhode Island, have yet to report endowment results.  None of the Ivy League schools has recouped the record
losses incurred in the year ended June 30, 2009, after the
bankruptcy of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  in September 2008
crippled financial markets. As investments tumbled, universities
cut jobs, froze salaries and postponed building projects.
Cornell had lost 26 percent in the year ended June 2009,
mirroring declines at Harvard and Yale.  At least 15 private nonprofit colleges and universities
sold bonds to raise cash after the credit collapse, including
six of eight Ivy League schools, according to reports from
Moody’s Investors Service. They borrowed $7.2 billion, costing
them about $360 million a year in interest, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Below is a list of endowment results for selected schools.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gillian Wee  in New York at 
 gwee3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 