-- Corn, Soybeans Slide on Outlook for U.S. Harvest, Chinese Chicken Tariffs
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g   a n d   W e n d y   P u g h
-- 2010-09-29T11:18:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/corn-soybeans-slide-on-outlook-for-u-s-harvest-chinese-chicken-tariffs.html
Corn fell for a third day in
Chicago as favorable weather helped accelerate harvesting in
the U.S., the biggest exporter of the grain, and after China
imposed anti-dumping tariffs on U.S. chicken shipments.  December-delivery corn fell as much as 2.8 percent to
$4.86 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade and traded at
$4.8775 at 12:48 p.m. Paris time, after slumping 2.5 percent
yesterday. November-delivery soybeans lost 1.3 percent to
$10.9875, a second day of losses.  U.S. corn and soybean crops were being harvested at a
faster-than-average pace, the U.S. Department of Agriculture
reported this week. China said Sept. 26 it will impose duties
on U.S. broiler chicken products, potentially reducing poultry
production and demand for chicken feed.  “The poultry industry devours corn and soybean meal, and
any attacks upon poultry exports will push demand down
swiftly,” U.S. economist  Dennis Gartman  said in his daily
newsletter. Breeders “can ramp up or ramp down production
very, very quickly,” he said.  The U.S. poultry and egg industry uses about 100 billion
pounds (45.4 million metric tons) of feed a year, according to
 the USDA . About 60 percent of the average U.S. poultry diet is
corn, with another 25 percent from soybean meal, according to
the University of Georgia’s  Department of Poultry Science .  Chicken Duty  China this week slapped a duty of as much as 105.4 percent
on U.S. broiler chicken products, citing a “causal
relationship” between U.S. companies dumping at below-market
prices and losses in the Chinese poultry industry. The country
consumed almost 800,000 tons of U.S. chicken products in 2008,
according to the USA Poultry & Egg Export Council.  About 27 percent of the U.S. corn crop and 17 percent of
the soybeans were harvested as of Sept. 26, the U.S. Department
of Agriculture said in a report. That compared with a five-year
average of 15 percent for corn and 13 percent for soybeans.  “Harvest progress in the U.S. is spectacular, for corn as
well as soybeans, thanks to very forgiving weather,” Paris-
based farm adviser Agritel said on its website today. “Sales
are nourished by harvest pressure in the U.S. and precautionary
position closings ahead of the USDA report tomorrow.”  The USDA is scheduled to release its estimate of the
nation’s quarterly stockpiles of soybeans, corn, wheat, and
other grains on Sept. 30.  Weather Outlook  Dry weather during the next 15 days in corn and soybean
areas would firm muddy soil and allow access for heavy farm
machinery after rains slowed fieldwork, said  Don Keeney , an
agricultural meteorologist at MDA Information Systems Inc.  “Prices of corn and soybean are going down because of
improved crop outlook in the U.S.,” which will continue to
weigh on prices this week, said C.S. Oh, head of overseas
futures at NH Investment & Futures Co., by phone from Seoul.  About 21 percent of the fields in Kansas, the biggest U.S.
winter-wheat producer, were seeded, up from 11 percent a week
ago, according to the USDA.  Wheat for December delivery slumped 2.5 percent to $6.6775
a bushel after touching $6.665, the lowest level since Aug. 2,
amid favorable sowing weather.  “Winter wheat planting prospects in both the U.S. Midwest
and Russia are likely to improve over the coming weeks due to
forecast rainfall,”  Luke Mathews , a Sydney-based agricultural
commodities strategist at Commonwealth Bank of Australia, wrote
in a report.  Milling wheat for November delivery traded on NYSE Liffe
in Paris fell 3.9 percent to 202.50 euros ($275.60) a ton.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rudy Ruitenberg  in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .
 Wendy Pugh  in Melbourne at 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net .
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  