-- Soybeans Drop as Dry Spell Aids U.S. Harvest, Rains Helps Brazil Planting
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2010-09-29T19:04:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/corn-soybeans-fall-as-dry-spell-speeds-u-s-harvest-rain-falls-in-brazil.html
Soybeans declined for a second
straight session since reaching a 15-month high as drier weather
in the U.S. Midwest improved prospects for the harvest and as
rain in South America may improve soil moisture during planting.  Dry weather will dominate most of the Midwest through Oct.
10, speeding the harvest by allowing more access for farm
machinery,  T-Storm Weather LLC  in Chicago said today in a
report. As much as 3 inches (7.6 centimeters) of rain will end
the dry season in central and southeastern Brazil this week as
farmers start planting, the private forecaster said. The region
usually gets 5 inches to 7 inches a month from October to March.  “The flow of newly harvested corn and soybeans will
increase supplies across the Midwest the next week,”
overwhelming demand and storage capacity, said  Mark Schultz , the
chief analyst for Northstar Commodity Investment Co. in
Minneapolis. “Rains are improving planting prospects in South
America and encouraged funds to cut their long positions before
the end of the quarter.”  Soybean futures for November delivery declined 11 cents, or
1 percent, to settle at $10.99 a bushel on the Chicago Board
Trade at 1:15 p.m. On Sept. 27, the price touched $11.44, the
highest level since June 2009.  Before this week, soybeans surged 25 percent since the end
of June as hot, dry weather threatened U.S. yields and delayed
planting in Brazil and Argentina, the biggest exporters after
the U.S. As of Sept. 21, hedge funds held a  record bet  on higher
soybean prices, government data show.  The harvest will rise 3.7 percent to a record 3.483 billion
bushels, the U.S. Department of Agriculture said in a Sept. 10
report. The agency is scheduled to release its next production
report on Oct. 8 in Washington.  Soybeans are the second-largest crop in the U.S., valued at
$31.8 billion last year, behind corn, government data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 