-- Cotton-Export Delay From India May Lead to Disputes, Traders' Group Says
-- B y   T h o m a s   K u t t y   A b r a h a m
-- 2010-09-29T12:08:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/cotton-export-delay-from-india-may-lead-to-disputes-traders-group-says.html
A delay in starting cotton exports
from India after global prices jumped to the highest level in 15
years may lead to disputes between buyers and sellers from the
second-biggest supplier, according to a traders’ group.  Shipments will begin Nov. 1, Rita Menon, secretary in the
textiles ministry, said in New Delhi yesterday. That’s a month
later than expected by the textiles industry.  Traders may have contracted to ship about 1.5 million bales
of 170 kilograms each between October and January,  Dhiren Sheth ,
president of the  Cotton Association of India , said in a phone
interview. An estimate on how much cotton has been committed for
exports next month isn’t immediately available, he said.  “Some quantity has been committed for shipment in October,
but fortunately it’s not large,”  Dhiren Sheth , president of the
 Cotton Association of India , said in a phone interview today.
“There will be claims and disputes on those contracts.”  Cotton futures extended a rally to a 15-year high yesterday
on mounting concern that global supplies will lag behind demand.
Prices reached as high as $1.064 a pound on ICE Futures in New
York, the highest for a most-active contract since June 1995.
The commodity fell as much as 3.3 percent to $1.0176 today.  “Prices will follow yarn and other end-products,” for
which there’s “strong demand,” Sheth said.  India halted exports in April to cool domestic prices and
bolster supplies, and then introduced a new licensing system for
shipments a month later. The curbs would end for the crop year
starting Oct. 1 amid forecasts for a record harvest, A.B. Joshi,
the textiles commissioner, said in an interview on July 1.  Shipments have been limited to 5.5 million bales and the
cap will be reviewed in the middle of December, Farm Minister
 Sharad Pawar  said yesterday.  Output may be “slightly” higher than the 34.45 million
bales estimated by the association last month, he said. The
group will revise the production estimate next week, he said.  The Cotton Association is group of 400 growers, ginners,
traders and exporters, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Kutty Abraham  in Mumbai at 
 tabraham4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  