-- Cotton Costs in China, Pakistan to Rise on Delay in India Sales, Olam Says
-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a
-- 2010-09-29T10:28:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/cotton-costs-in-china-pakistan-to-rise-on-delay-in-india-sales-olam-says.html
A delay in starting cotton exports
from India, the second-biggest supplier, may lift spot prices in
China, Bangladesh and Pakistan as buyers rush to secure supplies
to meet immediate needs, according to Olam International Ltd.  Shipments will begin Nov. 1, Rita Menon, secretary in the
textiles ministry, said in New Delhi yesterday. That’s a month
later than expected by exporters.  “The hit to October commitments will force buyers to cover
their needs from wherever they can,” said  Unupom Kausik , head
of the cotton business at Olam Agro India Ltd., one of the top
traders of the commodity in the country.  Cotton futures yesterday extended a rally to a 15-year high
on mounting concern that supplies will lag behind demand. China,
the biggest consumer, plans to auction an extra 400,000 metric
tons from state reserves to meet demand and Pakistan, the third-
biggest user, may buy 2.8 million bales this year after floods
ruined crops, Farm Minister  Nazar Muhammad Gondal  said yesterday.  “International prices are going up because of a structural
supply-demand mismatch,” Kausik said in a telephone interview.
“The difference between spot prices and New York futures will
widen” because of delayed supplies from India, he said.  Indian textile mills had demanded a halt in registration of
contracts in the December quarter to augment domestic supply and
sought a tax of 10,000 rupees ($223) a ton to deter exports. A
duty may be imposed in the middle of October, Menon said.  “The Indian textile industry wanted to reserve the initial
arrival for themselves and that pressure has played
significantly behind this delay,” said Kausik.  ‘Credibility’  Traders may have contracted to ship about 1.5 million to 2
million bales of 170 kilograms each in the three months ending
December, Kausik said. An estimate on how much cotton has been
committed for exports next month isn’t immediately available, he
said, echoing a view by  Dhiren Sheth , president of the Cotton
Association of India. The delay may lead to disputes between
buyers and sellers from the nation, Sheth said.  “People entered into contracts which are not likely to be
met now and this will affect the long-term credibility of origin
of supplies,” Kausik said. “There will be some heartburn and
sourness between between buyers and sellers.”  India halted exports in April to cool domestic prices and
bolster supplies, and then introduced a new licensing system for
shipments a month later. The curbs would end for the crop year
starting Oct. 1 amid forecasts for a record harvest, A.B. Joshi,
the textiles commissioner, said in an interview on July 1.  Shipments have been limited to 5.5 million bales and the
cap will be reviewed in the middle of December, Farm Minister
 Sharad Pawar  said yesterday.  Output may top 34.5 million bales, higher than the 32.55
million bales forecast by the state-run Cotton Advisory Board
last month, Kausik said, citing a survey by Olam. Production
this season may be 29.5 million bales, according to the board.  The nation will have enough supplies to ship 7.5 million to
8 million bales in the 2010-11 season, Pawar said.  “In our opinion, India can easily export around 8 million
bales next year,” Olam’s Kausik said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pratik Parija  in New Delhi at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  