-- Oil Heads for Biggest Monthly Gain Since May 2009 as U.S. Supplies Shrink
-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a   a n d   A l e x a n d e r   K w i a t k o w s k i
-- 2010-09-30T12:58:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/crude-oil-trades-near-a-seven-week-high-after-decline-in-u-s-stockpiles.html
Crude oil rose, headed for the
biggest monthly gain since May last year as shrinking
inventories in the U.S. stoked speculation that demand may be
recovering in the world’s largest consumer of the fuel.  Futures rose to a seven-week high after a U.S. government
report yesterday showed an unexpected decline in crude and
gasoline supplies. The U.S. economy grew at a 1.7 percent annual
rate in the second quarter, the Commerce Department said today,
more than the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Applications for U.S. unemployment benefits
decreased last week, according to the Labor Department.  “The initial factor for this move was U.S. oil storage
data, although I don’t see U.S. demand picking up enough for
prices to get much higher,” said  Gerrit Zambo , a trader at
Bayerische Landesbank in Munich.  Oil for November delivery traded at $78.84 a barrel, up 98
cents, on the New York Mercantile Exchange at 1:37 p.m. London
time. The contract earlier rose to $78.92, the highest price
since Aug. 11. Brent crude for November settlement gained $1.19
to $81.96 on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London.  Futures in New York have climbed 9.6 percent in September
and are headed for a 4.2 percent increase in the third quarter.
That would pare the 9.7 percent drop in the three months through
June, the first such decline since 2008.  U.S. Economic Data  Initial jobless claims in the U.S. decreased by 16,000 to
453,000 in the week ended Sept. 25, lower than the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, Labor
Department figures showed today in Washington.  The world’s largest economy grew at a 1.7 percent annual
rate in the second quarter, revised figures from the Commerce
Department also showed today. The growth exceeded the median
forecast of economists surveyed, which projected growth of 1.6
percent, unchanged from the government’s estimate last month.  Crude rose yesterday after the Energy Department said
stockpiles of gasoline fell 3.47 million barrels to 222.6
million last week. They were forecast to increase by 350,000
barrels, according to a Bloomberg News survey. Crude inventories
also slipped.  The dollar fell to an eight-month low against a basket of
currencies. The U.S. currency traded 0.1 percent lower at
$1.3643 against the euro. A weaker dollar bolsters the appeal of
commodities as an alternative investment.  Oil output from OPEC, supplier of 40 percent of the world’s
crude, fell to an eight-month low in September, led by Iraq,
where a pipeline disruption curtailed shipments, a Bloomberg
News survey showed today.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries is
unlikely to change its production levels when it meets next
month, Kuwait’s oil minister said. Sheikh Ahmad al-Abdullah al-
Sabah is “happy” with current prices, he said in Hanoi
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ayesha Daya  in London at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  