-- D.E. Shaw Hedge-Fund Firm Said to Cut 10% of Workforce as Assets Decline
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2010-09-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/d-e-shaw-is-said-to-cut-10-of-workforce-as-hedge-fund-investors-pull-out.html
D.E. Shaw & Co., the New York-based
hedge-fund firm that lost investors after limiting withdrawals
in 2008, fired about 150 employees, two people familiar with the
cuts said yesterday.  The dismissals represent about 10 percent of the workforce,
according to the people, who asked not to be identified because
the information hasn’t been made public. Assets at the firm,
started by  David Shaw  22 years ago, have fallen 46 percent to
$21 billion from the 2008 peak, primarily through client
redemptions.  Investors have fled fund managers including D.E. Shaw and
New York-based Harbinger Capital Partners LLC that prevented
them from pulling out money during the financial crisis of 2008.
Firms usually limit withdrawals because they have hard-to-sell
assets that they don’t want to unload at fire-sale prices.  “Investors have long memories,” said  Brad Alford , who
runs Alpha Capital Management LLC in Atlanta, which selects
hedge funds for clients. “D.E. Shaw was one of the poster
children for treating investors poorly in 2008.”  D.E. Shaw restricted redemptions in November 2008 from its
Composite and Oculus funds, even though the Composite fund had
dropped 11 percent, about half the industry average, and the
Oculus fund was up about 10 percent.  The firm told clients it had enough cash to meet
withdrawals. Even so, fund executives said they wouldn’t allow
investors to pull their money because the funds’ documents
stipulated that if redemptions reached a certain percentage of
assets, the firm could halt them.  Limited Offer  D.E. Shaw in June 2009 allowed investors the one-time
option of pulling 16 percent of their assets from the two funds.
Those who accepted weren’t allowed to make additional
withdrawals in 2009.  “The D.E. Shaw group has taken steps to strengthen our
business and maximize value for our investors over the long
term,” said  Paul Welsh , a spokesman for the firm. He declined
to elaborate. Institutional Investor magazine reported the job
cuts on its website yesterday.  The Composite Fund, which uses computer models to make buy
and sell decisions, dropped 3 percent this year through August,
compared with the 6.4 percent gain by the Relative Value Index
compiled by Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc. The fund,
D.E. Shaw’s largest, climbed 20 percent in 2009, less than the
index’s 26 percent return.  ‘Isolated Case’  “I think this is an isolated case and not reflective of
trends in the hedge-fund industry at the moment,” said  Ross Baltic , a managing partner at Mercury Partners Inc., a New York-
based recruiting firm whose clients include hedge funds.
“There’s a healthy level of sustainable hiring activity.”  Hedge funds returned 1.45 percent on average this year
through August, according to Hedge Fund Research, compared with
a decline of 4.6 percent by the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. The
$1.6 trillion industry pulled in a net $23 billion in the first
half. At that rate, 2010 would be the third-worst year for
deposits since 2001.  Shaw, a former Columbia University computer science
professor, founded D.E. Shaw in 1988. He ceded oversight of his
firm to a six-person committee in 2002, when client assets were
about $2 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Katherine Burton  in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net ;
 Saijel Kishan  in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  