-- Dairy Queen to Increase China Stores More Than 60% by Next Year
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-09-29T08:35:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/dairy-queen-to-open-100-new-outlets-in-china-in-2011.html
International Dairy Queen Inc. , the
U.S. fast-food and ice-cream chain owned by  Warren Buffett ’s
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc ., plans to increase its outlets in  China 
by more than 60 percent by the end of next year.  The company aims to have more than 500 stores in the
world’s  most populous nation  by December 2011 from more than 300
now, Jean Champagne, chief operating officer of Dairy Queen’s
international groups division, said today in Shanghai.  Dairy Queen,  Nestle SA’s  Haagen-Dazs and Allied Domecq
Plc’s Baskin-Robbins are setting up more stores in the world’s
fastest-growing major economy as consumers in their home
countries curtail spending in the wake of a global recession.
China is Dairy Queen’s fastest-growing and second-largest market
globally, trailing only the U.S., Champagne said at a briefing.  “As the country continues to develop, there will be a
whole new customer base that will continue to know about DQ,”
Chief Executive Officer  John Gainor  said at the same press
conference. “We’re very excited about our growth in China.”  The Edina, Minnesota-based chain plans to introduce 15 new
flavors in China next year to cater for local customers,
Champagne said. The new flavors will include goji berry, which
will be exclusive to China, he said.  Dairy Queen targets 130 to 135 new outlets this year and
more than 145 in 2011 in China, Champagne said.  Smaller Cities  While the company will continue to grow in Beijing and
Shanghai, it also plans to expand in smaller cities, Gainor
said.  “As China’s disposable income increases, it allows us to
penetrate into second and third-tier cities,” he said. “In the
next 10-15 years, China will be a very significant part of our
portfolio.”  China’s  retail sales climbed 18.4 percent in August,
according to the National Bureau of Statistics.  Dairy Queen has about 6,000 stores worldwide, Gainor said.
More than 700 of these restaurants are in 17 countries outside
the U.S. and Canada, according to a company statement.  The fast-food and ice-cream chain is a unit of Omaha,
Nebraska-based Berkshire Hathaway Inc., the holding company
Buffett built through acquisitions and stock picks.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Huiwen Yang in Shanghai at 
 Hyang66@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Wei in Beijing at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  