-- Daiwa Unit to Provide Dark-Pool Trading in Japan Beginning Early October
-- B y   T a k a k o   I w a t a n i   a n d   K o t a r o   T s u n e t o m i
-- 2010-09-29T06:02:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/daiwa-unit-to-provide-dark-pool-trading-in-japan-beginning-early-october.html
Daiwa Securities Capital Markets
plans to offer dark-pool trading from early October, said  Punit Mittal , global head of the company’s electronic trading.  More than 100 clients have confirmed that they will use the
dark pool, said  Mittal , whose company is a unit of  Daiwa
Securities Group Inc. , Japan’s second-largest brokerage. Forty
percent of the prospective clients are domestic and the rest are
foreign, he said. Dark pools don’t display quotes publicly.  “Daiwa built its technology in Japan because it believes
the market structures here are very different,” said Mittal.
“It is important to build technology specific to each market.”  The dark pool will be the first for Daiwa and comes amid an
increase of such trading systems in Asia. New York-based
Citigroup Inc. plans to start dark-pool services in Singapore
next year, and Deutsche Bank AG started dark-pool trading in
Hong Kong on Aug. 23. The German bank said it intends to
introduce off-exchange trading in Japan, Australia and Singapore,
without specifying when the services would be introduced.  “Dark pools overseas raise concerns over a lack of
transparency and possible dilution of liquidity,” said Tsuyoshi
Masuda, deputy director of the stock-market department at the
Tokyo Stock Exchange. “In Japan, because of regulations on
proprietary-trading systems, dark pools are subject to price
restraints, so fair pricing is ensured.”  Dark pools will expand in Japan because of lower execution
costs, but not as much as in the U.S. or Europe, which have
regulations for best executions, Mittal said. Daiwa has no plans
to offer dark pools in other Asian markets, he said.  “Confidentiality is the key for dark pools,” said  Takashi Hiratsuka , chief trader at Resona Bank Ltd. “They enable
placement of large orders without the orders themselves
affecting share prices.”  Hiratsuka said he uses dark pools and is willing to use
more operated by other brokerages including Daiwa.  To contact the reporters for this story:
 Takako Iwatani  in Tokyo at 
 tiwatani@bloomberg.net .
 Kotaro Tsunetomi  in Tokyo at 
 ktsunetomi@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net . 