-- David Miliband Joins U.K. Backbenchers After Leadership Defeat to Brother
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2010-09-29T17:40:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/david-miliband-joins-u-k-backbenchers-after-leadership-defeat-to-brother.html
David Miliband , who lost to his
younger brother  Ed  for the leadership of the opposition Labour
Party, said he plans to quit frontline U.K. politics, though
he’ll stay a member of Parliament.  The announcement, which brought Labour’s annual conference
in Manchester, northwest England, to a standstill as activists
crowded round television screens, brings a close to five days of
drama following Ed’s victory. The strained relationship between
the two brothers overshadowed the meeting, intended as a
coronation for the new party leader.  “The party needs a fresh start from its new leader, and I
think that is more likely to be achieved if I make a fresh
start,” David said in an e-mailed statement in London today.
“This is now Ed’s party to lead and he needs to be able to do
so as free as possible from distraction.”  David, 45, announced his decision as nominations closed for
election to the opposition top team, known as the shadow
Cabinet. Ed, 40, was named as leader on Sept. 25, thanks to the
backing of labor unions. David received more votes from party
members and lawmakers and had long been the frontrunner to
succeed  Gordon Brown , who stepped down after Labour lost the May
6 election.  ‘Raw Emotion’  “This may end the psychodrama between them,” said  Mark Wickham-Jones , professor of politics at Bristol University, in a
telephone interview. “But it underscores that this has been a
contest of more raw emotion and intensity than any of us had
imagined.”  “Any new leader needs time and space to set his or her own
direction, priorities and policies,” David said in his
statement. “This will be harder if there is constant comparison
with my comments and position as a member of the shadow Cabinet.
I genuinely fear perpetual, distracting and destructive attempts
to find division where there is none and splits where they don’t
exist, all to the detriment of the party’s cause.”  Speaking to reporters in Manchester, Ed paid tribute to his
brother, describing his decision as “typically thoughtful,
mature and gracious.” Ed said he was “delighted to be leader
of this party but obviously disappointed for him
and that’s the paradox of this contest.”  Open Door  “I am very clear that as leader of this party my door is
always open for him to serve in the future or back in
government,” Ed said. “He’s a massive talent for our party and
for our country. We would have been a stronger team with him in
it.”  In the four rounds of voting in the leadership contest,
David led for three, with Ed pulling ahead at the last minute as
votes from union members helped give him a total of 50.65
percent of the electoral college. David was ahead among
lawmakers and party cardholders.  Even Ed’s supporters acknowledged that the result had been
a shock. Lawmaker  Richard Caborn  said it had left the conference
“numb,” with a “surreal atmosphere.” It brought an echo of the
way David and Ed’s respective mentors,  Tony Blair  and Brown,
battled for control of the party for more than a decade.  The three other leadership candidates,  Ed Balls ,  Andy Burnham  and  Diane Abbott , were among the 49 lawmakers nominated
for the shadow Cabinet, according to a list distributed at the
conference. Also proposed was Balls’s wife,  Yvette Cooper , the
former work and pensions secretary.  The Miliband brothers were the first siblings to sit
together in the British Cabinet since Edward and Oliver Stanley
in 1938. David was foreign secretary in the Labour government
that lost power in May and Ed was energy secretary.  Midland Hotel  In Manchester, the bar of the Midland Hotel, where Labour’s
most senior figures are staying, fell silent as delegates
crowded round TV screens to watch the news.  “It’s really sad to lose such an immense talent from
Labour’s top team,” lawmaker John Woodcock, who supported David
for the leadership, said in an interview. “It’s up to all of us
to do exactly as he suggests and give Ed the space and the
support that he needs to ensure that we’re a credible
opposition.”  “He’ll be a big loss,” said  John Cryer , a lawmaker who
backed Ed to become leader “He’s not just bright and capable,
he’s also a very, very good speaker. We don’t often get people
who can fill so many roles in the way he’s able to do.”  To contact the reporters on this story
 Kitty Donaldson  in London at  kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Hutton  in Manchester, England, at  rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 