-- U.S. Defense Software Upgrades $6.9 Billion Over Estimates, GAO Reports
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2010-09-29T04:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/defense-software-upgrades-6-9-billion-over-estimates-gao-says.html
At least six of nine software
systems the Pentagon is installing to improve longstanding
financial management deficiencies are running as much as 12
years late and $6.9 billion over their original cost estimates,
according to congressional investigators.  The estimated cost for the six Pentagon, Air Force and Navy
“ enterprise resource planning”  systems is now at least $13.7
billion, compared with original estimates of about $6.8 billion,
according to the U.S. Government Accountability Office.  The final price tags could be higher because the GAO said
it wasn’t able to estimate the current cost of a $2.6 billion
Army project that’s six years behind schedule, according to
testimony prepared for release today before a  Senate
subcommittee .  The Pentagon has been criticized by the GAO, the Defense
Department’s Inspector General and lawmakers for chronic
shortcomings in accounting and financial management systems that
can’t pass a federal audit.  Improved financial systems are designed to track savings
and costs, and manage contracts, finances, and infrastructure.  The Pentagon has a “reasonable approach” to improving
systems and “is headed in the right direction,” GAO Director
of Financial Management Asif Khan said in testimony prepared for
Senator  Tom Carper , a Delaware Democrat who leads a Senate
subcommittee on federal financial management.  ‘Longstanding Weaknesses’  So far, though, the “improvement efforts have not resulted
in the fundamental transformation of the Defense Department’s
financial management operations necessary to resolve the
longstanding weaknesses,” Khan said.  Congress has required the Pentagon to able to pass an audit
by 2017 -- an objective that’s clearly in doubt, Carper said in
a statement.  “This is a critical goal and considering the amount of
time and money that’s gone into this effort, it’s one that
should have been met years ago,” he said. The audit when it
occurs will help ensure “that billions of tax dollars are spent
properly.”  Khan said GAO can’t currently predict when the Pentagon
will succeed in efforts to satisfy auditors.  The delays and rising costs involve new enterprise resource
planning systems, which are widely used automated commercial
software tools that perform tasks such as general accounting,
payroll and supply-chain management.  The changes are “critical” to improving the Pentagon’s
programs because they promise to replace as many as 500 systems
that have been in use, the GAO reported.  ‘Oversight Challenges’  “Significant leadership and oversight challenges have
hindered the department’s efforts to implement these systems on
schedule, within cost and with intended capabilities,” the GAO
said.  The Pentagon and the military services had spent $5.8
billion as of December to develop and field 10 enterprise
resource planning programs. Only one Army system is on schedule.  A standardized personnel and pay system for the military
services was supposed to be in place by 2006. Its cost has grown
to at least $2.4 billion from $577 million, the GAO said.  The cost of an Air Force combat support system has grown to
$5.2 billion from $3 billion, and the price of a Navy combat
support system for the Marine Corps is estimated to have risen
to $934 million from $126 million, GAO said.  Pentagon contractors that manage enterprise resource
planning contracts include  International Business Machines Corp. ,
based in Armonk, New York;  Computer Sciences Corp. , of Falls
Church, Virginia;  Northrop Grumman Corp. , of Los Angeles; and
Falls Church-based  General Dynamics Corp. ’s Information
Technologies unit. The GAO’s testimony didn’t identify which
contractors were working on the projects experiencing rising
costs and delays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Capaccio  at  at
 acapaccio@bloomnberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  