-- Delta, US Airways to Seek Review of NYC Airport Ruling
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2010-09-29T21:32:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/delta-us-airways-to-ask-u-s-to-reconsider-nyc-airport-ruling.html
US Airways Group Inc.  and  Delta Air
Lines Inc.  will ask federal regulators to re-evaluate a ruling
that led the carriers to drop a planned swap of takeoff and
landing slots in New York and Washington.  The U.S. Transportation Department and Federal Aviation
Administration should reconsider their decision on the slots in
light of the pending merger of  Southwest Airlines Co.  and
AirTran Holdings Inc. and other recent industry agreements,
 James Olson , a US Airways spokesman, said in an interview today.  Regulators’ demands that Delta and US Airways give rivals
more access to New York’s LaGuardia Airport and Ronald Reagan
Washington National Airport under their slot plan prompted the
airlines to appeal the case in federal court in July. Delta
sought to expand at LaGuardia, and US Airways at Reagan.  “We’re certainly going to highlight for the DOT and FAA
the changes in the industry landscape and hope they’ll have an
open mind about re-evaluating our transaction with Delta,”
Olson said.  Trebor Banstetter, a spokesman for Atlanta-based Delta,
declined to comment.  Bill Mosely , a spokesman for the
Transportation Department, said he wouldn’t comment because the
matter remains in litigation.  Better Chance?  US Airways and Delta now have a better chance at getting
the ruling overturned than they did a month ago,  Hunter Keay , an
analyst with Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore, said today in
an interview.  “The competitive dynamic in the Washington D.C.-New York
City market as far as Southwest goes is definitely different,”
Keay said. The two carriers may have to give up some additional
slots to Southwest in order for the deal to go through, he said.  The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey has
previously backed the proposal because US Airways facilities at
LaGuardia are underutilized, said  Helane Becker , an analyst with
Dahlman Rose & Co. in New York.  “Southwest now has everything it wants -- it got slots and
gate space at Newark by virtue of the Continental and United
merger,” she said. “Now that they are buying AirTran, they are
getting gate space at LaGuardia. I think it’s highly likely that
the deal gets done.”  American, JetBlue  US Airways, based in Tempe, Arizona, also wants regulators
to consider a March agreement by AMR Corp.’s American Airlines
to swap slots with JetBlue Airways Corp. at New York’s Kennedy
airport and Reagan National, as well as a plan by UAL Corp.’s
United Airlines and Continental Airlines Inc. to lease slots at
New Jersey’s Newark airport to Southwest, Olson said.  The  combination  of Southwest and AirTran, announced Sept.
27, would give Southwest access to Reagan for the first time,
letting it fly from all three major Washington-area airports,
and would add to its service at LaGuardia. Southwest opposed the
proposed US Airways-Delta slot swaps.  What this shows is that airlines “can enter markets
through the buying and selling of slots,” Olson said. “There
are a variety of market-oriented channels for airlines to gain
access to the airports they want. The market allows competition
to work.”  Southwest’s August agreement with United and Continental
will add a second New York City-area airport to its network.
Southwest, based in Dallas, agreed to lease space for 18 daily
round trips at Newark, allowing Continental and United to allay
U.S. antitrust concerns that could have delayed their pending
merger. The two airlines expect the merger to close this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Schlangenstein  in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  