-- Delta Labor Votes Buck Nonunion Culture Dating to Crop-Dusters
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2010-09-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/delta-labor-votes-buck-nonunion-culture-dating-to-crop-dusters.html
Delta Air Lines Inc.  may soon have
unions representing a majority of its workforce under elections
that could boost costs and reshape the culture at a carrier long
resistant to organized labor.  Voting starts today and runs through Nov. 3 for 20,000
flight attendants under new federal rules relaxing the standards
for approving union representation. Balloting begins Oct. 14 for
14,000 fleet-service workers who handle baggage and cargo.  The elections stem from  Delta’s  2008 purchase of  Northwest
Airlines Corp. , which had more union employees. With fewer work
restrictions in labor contracts, Delta has been nimbler than
competitors in scheduling workers, said  William Swelbar , a
research engineer at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology’s
International Center for Air Transportation.  “One of the things Delta has always had with their
workforce is flexibility, and that drives their culture,”
Swelbar said in an interview. Scheduling changes under a union
contract would “prove to be very costly to Delta,” he said.  Delta’s non-union culture dates to the  company’s origin  in
the 1920s, when C.E. Woolman helped buy a crop-dusting company
later renamed for the Mississippi Delta region it served. Now
based in Atlanta, Delta is in one of the least-unionized states,
with 5.9 percent of Georgia workers represented by organized
labor, according to  the Bureau of Labor Statistics . About 12
percent of U.S. workers belong to unions last year, BLS said.  Merger Fallout  Before buying Northwest, Delta’s only unionized workers
were pilots and flight dispatchers, or about 12 percent of the
workforce, the company said. By the end of 2009, with the
addition of unionized Northwest workers, that figure roughly
tripled, according to a Delta regulatory filing, and union wins
in the latest voting would push the total to more than half.  The comparable totals were 68 percent at AMR Corp.’s
 American Airlines  and 82 percent at  UAL Corp. ’s United Airlines,
with pilots, attendants and most ground workers in unions.  The Delta votes are the first after a change by the U.S.
National Mediation Board that allows the majority of votes cast
to determine the outcome. Previously, abstaining from voting was
counted as a “no,” setting a higher threshold for unions to
win approval.  A direct relationship with employees works best, Chief
Executive Officer  Richard Anderson  told attendants at a town-
hall meeting last week. Unions “drive a wedge” in a company’s
culture, he said.  An increase in labor costs from work-rule changes may add
to Delta’s expenses for each seat flown a mile, the industry’s
benchmark. Delta’s costs on that basis were 12.31 cents in the
first half, second highest among the 6 biggest U.S. carriers
behind American, based on data compiled by Bloomberg.  Betting on Unions  Most investors assume that attendants and fleet workers
will vote to organize, so the potential for higher labor costs
is priced into the stock, said  Michael Derchin , an analyst at
CRT Capital Group LLC, who recommends  buying  Delta.  “If the unions don’t get in, that will be the surprise and
it might be a small positive for the stock” because Delta would
retain more flexibility, said Derchin, who is based in Stamford,
Connecticut.  Delta rose 20 cents, or 1.8 percent, to $11.59 yesterday in
New York Stock Exchange composite  trading . The shares have
gained 1.9 percent this year, trailing the 16 percent advance
for the  Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index  of 12 carriers.  Organizing Attendants  The voting that starts today centers on efforts by the
 Association of Flight Attendants , which represents Delta’s
former Northwest attendants, to cover original Delta employees.  Northwest’s 7,000 attendants work under a reserve system
that requires the most-junior employees to be on call for 18 or
19 days a month to make whichever trips Delta needs on those
days, and guarantees them 80 hours of pay whether they fly or
not. Attendants can only pick up extra trips to make more money
on their days off.  Delta’s 13,000 attendants receive computer-generated
schedules, with preferences based on seniority and three on-call
days a month. They can swap or drop trips, giving them more
control over workload and pay. An AFA win would mean that pay
rates and work rules would have to be negotiated.  Delta’s first-year flight attendants fly about 83 hours a
month on average, and the average rises to 100 hours a month in
years two through four as they make more trips to earn more
money, said  Gina Laughlin , a spokeswoman for the airline.  Maximum Pay  Northwest attendants reach maximum pay after 15 years,
while their Delta counterparts achieve it in 12 years.  In the past year, Delta’s most-senior attendants flew an
average of 941 hours and made an average of $61,153, while their
peers at Northwest flew 933 hours and earned $54,292, Laughlin
said. Delta gave employees 15 percent of the airline’s equity
after buying Northwest, and workers get monthly bonuses if the
carrier meets operational goals such as on-time performance.  The AFA has twice failed to organize Delta flight
attendants. The union gathered support from about 30 percent of
attendants voting in 2002, and 40 percent in 2008, after Delta
agreed to buy Northwest.  Of those who cast ballots two years ago, 99 percent backed
the union, meaning that if the new  NMB rules  had been in place,
the Association of Flight Attendants would have won.  “Flight attendants have worked hard over their careers and
this is about protecting that,” said  Corey Caldwell , a
spokeswoman for the Washington-based AFA.  A favorable vote could mean an additional $500 a year in
AFA dues from each of the 13,000 legacy Delta attendants, or
$6.5 million.  ‘Southern Culture’  Former Delta attendant Milly Hastings said the voting pits
tradition against the security of collective bargaining.  “It’s that Southern culture, which has always been
nonunion, and Delta is a very Southern company,” said Hastings,
63, who retired in 2002 after 33 years of service and lives in
Ellijay, Georgia.  “We were always told, ‘We’re a family. We’ll take care of
you.’ But you can’t depend on that,” Hastings said. “With a
contract, you would know that your paycheck is going to be a
certain amount.”  Anderson also appealed to attendants’ sense of heritage at
the Sept. 23 meeting. He sits at founder Woolman’s desk every
day, and adheres to a “faith-based set of principles around
treating people respectfully,” he said.  “Respect each other, act with honesty,” he said. “These
are the important fundamental values of our company.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Jane Credeur  in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 