-- Diesel's Europe-Asia Price Gap Rises to Most in 18 Months: Energy Markets
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 2010-09-29T14:10:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/diesel-gap-rises-most-in-18-months-for-europe-energy-markets.html
The biggest  gap  between Asian and
European diesel prices in 18 months means an increase in
shipments of the fuel to the U.K. from South Korea, shipping
brokers say.  Vitol Group and Royal Dutch Shell Plc are among companies
that have booked so-called Long Range 2 vessels to transport
the fuel and four tankers were booked to load in October, twice
as many as in September and up from one in August, according to
shipbroker fixture lists.  Energy companies are taking advantage of the trade after
gasoil, a proxy for diesel, became $20 a barrel cheaper in
Singapore than in Europe, the widest price gap since March 4,
2009, according to data from broker PVM Oil Associates. That
spread more than compensates for the $4.33 a barrel it costs to
ship fuel from Asia to Europe, based on tanker charter rates.  “The arbitrage is open under the current market situation
and if a trader can find a spot cargo he’ll bring it west,”
said  Akira Kamiyama , an energy derivatives trader with Mitsui &
Co. in Tokyo.  Demand for diesel, used by factories and trucks, is
increasing on expectations European growth will accelerate.
German  consumer sentiment  will rise to a three-year high in
October after Europe’s biggest  economy  expanded 2.2 percent in
the second quarter and  unemployment  declined in August, the
Nuremberg-based market research company GfK AG said yesterday.
Consumers in the country are replenishing stockpiles of gasoil,
or heating oil, ahead of the winter months.  “European diesel demand is strong relative to what was
expected” in other regions,  Lawrence Eagles , head of
commodities research at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said by phone from
New York on Sept. 24.  Maintenance Halts  Supplies in Europe haven’t kept pace because several
refineries in the region shut for repairs before the Northern
Hemisphere’s peak winter heating season. Shell shut a diesel
unit at  Pernis , Europe’s largest refinery, earlier this month
for repairs, according to two people with knowledge of the work.
The company started its Fredericia refinery in Denmark Sept. 18
after two weeks of planned maintenance.  Kuwait Petroleum Corp. has shut its 80,000 barrels a day
Europoort refinery in Rotterdam for maintenance.  Gasoil  stockpiles  in independent storage fell for a third
week in Europe’s Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp oil-trading hub,
according to data from PJK International BV on Sept. 23. PJK’s
weekly gasoil statistics include diesel as well as heating oil.  Arbitrage Exports  The combination of rising demand and falling supply has
pushed the front-month gasoil contract on London’s ICE Futures
Europe exchange into backwardation, where fuel for immediate
delivery trades at a higher price than contracts for later
months. Futures were last in an extended period of backwardation
in March and early April.  European gasoil for October delivery has gained 9 percent
since July 5 to trade at $679.75 a metric ton today on ICE.
Traders are importing from Asia and the U.S., in particular the
ultra-low-sulfur diesel grade that meets Europe’s transportation
specifications. Diesel that fails to meet those standards will
be blended into the heating oil pool.  “In terms of ICE gasoil, the current backwardation in
near-dated maturities will be challenged by arbitraged U.S. and
Asian supplies to Europe,”  Harry Tchilinguirian , head of
commodity-markets strategy at BNP Paribas SA, wrote in a report
Sept. 24.  Tankers Booked  At least seven tankers were booked this month to ship
310,000 tons from the U.S. Gulf Coast to Europe, according to
Clarkson Research Services Ltd., a unit of the world’s biggest
shipbroker. That’s up from three vessels in August carrying
114,000 tons.  In Asia, Shell chartered the Atlantic Spirit to load diesel
from South Korea on Oct. 9. Vitol booked the Avor and the
Paramount Hatteras, both new tankers, to move supplies in the
same direction, according to reports from shipbrokers Millennium
Chartering Ltd., Interocean Shipping and Clarkson.  Chevron Corp. will load the Genmar Maniate with 90,000 tons
of gasoil on Oct. 7 from South Korea, according to Millennium.  PJK International founder  Pieter Kulsen  said less gasoil is
being put into storage. PJK figures show gasoil inventories in
the Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp region dropped 2.5 percent to
2.47 million tons in the week through Sept. 23, compared with
1.985 million tons during the corresponding week in 2008 and the
record 3.028 million tons reached on Sept. 10, 2009.  Floating Stocks  Backwardation may also lead traders to reduce supplies in
floating storage as the profit from holding diesel diminishes,
according to Tchilinguirian of BNP Paribas.  The amount of  refined oil products  held on ships in
Northwest Europe has dropped to 7.619 million barrels, down 27
percent from 10.546 million on Sept. 21, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The backwardation in European gasoil narrowed to $1.75 a
ton yesterday, from $2.25 on Sept. 24, comparing October and
November futures prices on the ICE exchange. It widened back to
$2.25 as of 3:03 p.m. London time.  Diesel’s premium  to front-month ICE gasoil fell to $12 a
ton yesterday from $24 on Sept. 8, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The prices are for barges of up to 5,000 tons of
diesel traded in the ARA-area.  “The recent shift in the ICE gasoil first month contract
to slight backwardation is rather a puzzle in the context of the
still-high ARA gasoil stocks,” Facts Global Energy, a
consultant, said in a Sept. 22 report. “It’s difficult to see
the apparent tightness in European gasoil persisting, especially
when refinery downtime ends.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christian Schmollinger  in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jane Lee in Kuala Lumpur at 
 jalee@bloomberg.net  