-- Wife of Dodgers Owner McCourt Says Postnuptial Agreement Isn't Valid
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2010-09-30T01:07:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/dodgers-owner-s-postnuptial-agreement-with-wife-isn-t-valid-lawyer-argues.html
The postnuptial agreement that
 Frank McCourt  says makes the  Los Angeles Dodgers  his sole
property isn’t legally valid, a lawyer for his estranged wife
said at the end of a divorce trial over ownership of the team.  Jamie McCourt , 56, was never advised about the rights she
had and was giving up under California law with the 2004 marital
property agreement signed by the couple after Frank McCourt, 57,
bought the Dodgers,  Dennis Wasser , an attorney for Jamie McCourt
said today in Los Angeles Superior Court.  “It is undisputed there was no full disclosure of all
material facts,” Wasser said in his closing argument. This
“prevented Jamie McCourt from protecting her interests and
seeking separate counsel.”  The lawyers who advised the McCourts on the agreement
testified during the trial that they weren’t experts on
California family law and they couldn’t have advised Jamie
McCourt on what the agreement meant under the state’s laws,
Wasser said.  California Superior Court Judge Scott M. Gordon will rule
on the validity of the postnuptial after the non-jury trial. The
judge, after closing arguments finished today, gave both sides
two weeks to submit proposed statements of decision. Gordon said
he would then issue a tentative ruling and hold a hearing to
consider objections.  Boston to California  The couple, which moved to California from Boston after
buying the Major League Baseball team, failed to reach a
settlement during a mediation hearing Sept. 24. Their lawyers
have said through a court spokesman that they may seek mediation
again at a later date.  Frank McCourt claims his wife sought the 2004 agreement
because she wanted to shield assets in her name from liabilities
he assumed to buy the Dodgers.  Sorrell Trope, an attorney for Frank McCourt, said in his
closing statement that the McCourts couldn’t have crafted an
agreement that would have protected the assets in Jamie
McCourt’s name against her husband’s business creditors under
California community property law and at same time preserved her
claims to his assets under Massachusetts equitable distribution
law in a divorce.  “It would have been a fraud on creditors” to have a
division of property that would treat the separate assets
differently for creditor protection than for marital
dissolution, Trope said. “You can’t have it both ways.”  ‘Shocking’ Error  Wasser questioned the credibility of the Boston lawyer for
the McCourts, Larry Silverstein, who testified that he explained
the postnuptial agreement to them when they signed it on March
31, 2004. Wasser said Silverstein has hardly any recollection of
a “shocking” error he made in preparing the agreement.  Silverstein included contradictory exhibits to different
copies of the agreement, one that included the Dodgers as Frank
McCourt’s separate property and one that excluded the team from
his separate assets. Silverstein hasn’t been able to recall in
detail how he created the two inconsistent versions and how he
fixed them to resolve the inconsistency, Wasser said.  “Does he have a bad memory, your honor, or is he making up
the story as he goes along?” Wasser said. “But he remembers
explaining the marital property agreement to Jamie McCourt in
half an hour. It’s not credible.”  No Contract  Wasser said that, because two versions of the postnuptial
agreement were signed that contradict each other on a key point,
“there was no meeting of the minds” and the judge should rule
that the couple never entered into a contract.  Frank McCourt received an unfair advantage with the
postnuptial agreement because he received 85 percent of the
couple’s assets, which under California law requires him to
prove that his wife was not under “undue influence” when she
agreed to it, according to Wasser.  Frank McCourt can’t prove the absence of undue influence
because the lawyers who helped the couple were representing only
his interests, Wasser said. The same Boston lawyer who advised
on the marital agreement represented Frank McCourt, and not
Jamie McCourt, in the Dodgers acquisition and his firm has done
other work for the team since then, Wasser said.  “Frank had a lawyer and Jamie did not,” Wasser said.
“She was lulled into believing she had her own lawyer.”  Trope said Jamie McCourt wasn’t credible when she testified
during the trial that she didn’t understand the agreement. Jamie
McCourt was a practicing family law attorney before she started
to work for her husband’s real estate development company and
she has a business degree from the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology.  Fired by Husband  Jamie McCourt filed for divorce Oct. 27, six days after her
husband fired her as chief executive officer of the baseball
team. Frank McCourt accused her of insubordination and of
“inappropriate behavior with regard to a direct subordinate.”  Lawyers for Jamie McCourt said last year that her
relationship with that employee started after the marriage had
fallen apart. The McCourts had been married for 30 years.  The $421 million acquisition of the Dodgers from  Fox
Entertainment Group Inc.  closed on Feb. 13, 2004. The team is
now worth about $727 million, according to Forbes. Jamie McCourt
testified this month that it was “preposterous” that she
knowingly would have given up her rights to the Dodgers in a
divorce.  The case is McCourt v. McCourt, BD514309, Los Angeles
County Superior Court (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edvard Pettersson  in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 