-- Dollar Drops to Eight-Month Low on Speculation Fed to Increase Debt Buying
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2010-09-29T20:31:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/dollar-index-declines-to-seven-month-low-on-speculation-fed-to-ease-policy.html
The  dollar  fell to an eight-month
low against a basket of currencies including the euro and yen on
speculation the Federal Reserve will increase purchases of
government debt to spur the economy.  The U.S. currency was headed for a quarterly loss versus
all of its 16 most-traded counterparts as reports indicated the
U.S. recovery is stalling as Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is
scheduled to testify at a Senate Banking Committee hearing
tomorrow. The yen traded near the strongest since the central
bank intervened on Sept. 15. Australia’s dollar reached parity
with its Canadian counterpart for the first time since 2004.  “The outlook for Fed policy easing, that’s really weighing
on the dollar,” said  Omer Esiner , chief market analyst in
Washington at Commonwealth Foreign Exchange Inc., a currency
brokerage. “As long as the U.S. economy remains weak, the Bank
of Japan is going to have a hard time keeping dollar-yen
supported at any level.”  The  Dollar Index , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major
counterparts, dropped 0.3 percent to 78.755 at 4:24 p.m. in New
York, from 79.014 yesterday. It touched 78.616, the lowest level
since Jan. 28.  Dollar Down  The dollar declined 0.3 percent to $1.3631 per euro, from
$1.3585 yesterday, after touching $1.3639, the weakest level
since April 15. The euro traded at 114.07 yen, compared with
113.94. The yen weakened as much as 0.4 percent before trading
at 83.68 per dollar, from 83.87. It touched 83.50, the strongest
level since Japan intervened in the currency market on Sept. 15.  The Ministry of Finance in Tokyo will report tomorrow the
amount of yen the central bank sold from Aug. 28 through Sept.
28 to curb appreciation in the currency. Demand for the yen has
been tempered amid speculation Japan will sell its currency
again after doing so on Sept. 15 for the first time since 2004.  The Australian dollar strengthened against it Canadian
counterpart amid speculation the Bank of Canada may keep its
benchmark interest rate on hold. The Reserve Bank of Australia
will raise borrowing costs to 4.75 percent next week, according
to the median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  The Aussie, as the Australian currency is nicknamed,
reached C$1.0020 Canadian dollars, from 99.63 Canadian cents.
The currency rose 0.2 percent to 96.91 U.S. cents, touching
97.30, the highest since July 23, 2008.  Fed Policy Debate  U.S. central bankers are debating whether more purchases of
government debt would help speed up a recovery that hasn’t
lowered the nation’s jobless rate.  The Fed announced following its Sept. 21 meeting that it’s
prepared to do more to help the economy, spurring speculation
policy makers will add securities to the central bank’s holdings
under a policy known as quantitative easing. Atlanta Fed
President  Dennis Lockhart  said yesterday in text of a speech in
Sewanee, Tennessee, that the debate about another round of asset
purchases will “intensify” soon.  Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren  said today further
large-scale purchases of securities would depend on the outlook
and incoming data on the economy and Philadelphia Fed President
 Charles Plosser  said he opposes more monetary expansion in part
because he sees “little risk” of deflation.  “The market has already priced quantitative easing into
the dollar,” said  Win Thin , a senior currency strategist at
Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York. “I don’t think it’s
a done deal.”  Periodic Returns  The U.S. currency has declined 10 percent versus the euro
this quarter in the worst performance among the European
currency’s 16 major counterparts. The greenback has pared this
year’s overall advance to 5.2 percent.  Developing-nation currencies climbed 6.1 percent against
the dollar this quarter, the biggest advance since the second
quarter of 2009, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Emerging
Markets Currency Index , as investors sought to benefit from the
fastest economic growth rates and reap higher returns than are
available in developed countries.  Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  warned of a
“currency war” and said on Sept. 27 that his government will
buy all “excess dollars” in the market to curb the real’s
appreciation.  “The currency debate has entered full swing ahead of the
IMF meeting in Washington,” currency analysts from BNP Paribus,
led by  Hans Redeker  in London wrote in a note to clients today.
“So far, Asia has controlled the pace of its currency
appreciation by running either super-accommodative monetary
condition and/or increasing currency reserves at a growing
pace.”  International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  said he sees no major danger of an escalation of
currency devaluations as countries seek to boost economic
growth.  ‘Currency War’  “I don’t feel today there’s a big risk of a currency war,
but that’s part of the downside risks,” Strauss-Kahn told
reporters at a briefing yesterday at the Washington-based
institution.  “If we saw dollar weakness translating in to Chinese
currency strength that might provide some leadership in which
other Asians and perhaps even Brazil would tolerate more
currency strength,” said  Alan Ruskin , global head of Group-of-
10 foreign-exchange strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in New York in
a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .  The Taiwan dollar was the biggest one-day gainer against
the dollar, euro and yen, before paring gains on signs the
central bank intervened to check appreciation that may hurt
exports. The currency touched a two-year high of NT$31.211 per
dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  