-- Dubai Shares Lead Gulf Higher on Government Bond Sale; Kuwait's Zain Soars
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2010-09-29T12:58:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/dubai-shares-lead-gulf-higher-on-bond-sale-global-gains-emaar-advances.html
Dubai  shares  rose for a second time
this week, adding to this month’s gain in Gulf markets, as the
emirate raised $1.25 billion in a bond sale and emerging-market
stocks climbed to the highest level since June 2008.  Emaar Properties PJSC , the developer of the world’s tallest
tower in Dubai, gained 0.8 percent.  Drake & Scull International 
advanced for the first time in three days after the engineering
company won a contract. In Kuwait,  Mobile Telecommunications Co. 
soared the most in seven months after CNBC Arabiya reported
Emirates Telecommunications Corp. offered to buy a stake in the
company. The  Dubai Financial Market General Index  increased 0.7
percent to 1,702.43 at the 2 p.m. close in the emirate, bringing
the surge so far this month to 15 percent.  Investors are “gaining confidence from reports of a
positive reception for the Dubai government bond issue,” said
 Julian Bruce , director of equity sales at EFG-Hermes Holding SAE
in Dubai. Gains in global markets are also helping to lift local
stocks, he said.  Dubai is raising money for the first time since Dubai Word
announced plans in November to delay payments on $24.9 billion
of debt, roiling global markets. The emirate’s five-year, $500-
million issue was priced to yield about 6.7 percent, according
to terms of the transaction obtained by Bloomberg after the
market closed. The $750-million 10-year note was priced to yield
7.75 percent.  Emerging-market stocks rose as China’s manufacturing
accelerated, bolstering the growth outlook for Asia. The  MSCI
Emerging Markets Index  climbed 0.9 percent, extending this
month’s advance to 10 percent. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index 
gained 0.5 percent yesterday after investors speculated that the
U.S. Federal Reserve would buy more debt to try to safeguard the
economy.  Syria Contract  Crude for November delivery gained as much as 1 percent to
$76.93 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile
Exchange. The six nations of the Gulf Cooperation Council supply
about a fifth of the world’s oil.  Emaar increased to 3.80 dirhams. The builder of the world’s
tallest tower said after the end of the trading day it plans to
raise at least $375 million from the sale of convertible notes.  Drake & Scull climbed 1.1 percent, the most in almost a
week, to 93 fils. The company won an 85 million-dirham ($23
million) contract in Syria for mechanical, electrical and
plumbing work on the Rotana Gardenia Hotel and Furnished
Apartments in the city of Homs.  Mobile Telecommunications,  the phone company known as Zain,
jumped 7.9 percent the most since February to 1,360 fils. CNBC
Arabiya said Etisalat offered to buy 46 percent of the company.
After markets in Kuwait City and Abu Dhabi closed Etisalat’s
spokesman Ahmed bin Ali said the U.A.E.’s biggest phone company
submitted a preliminary “conditional offer.”  Kuwait Index  Etisalat rose 0.9 percent to 10.8 dirhams, the highest
since May. The  Kuwait SE Price Index  gained 0.9 percent and Abu
Dhabi’s  ADX General Index  increased 0.6 percent.  The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index  of Gulf stocks advanced 0.5
percent and Qatar’s  QE Index  jumped 0.9 percent to the highest
since April 14. Saudi Arabia’s Tadawul All Share Index and
Oman’s  MSM 30 Index  fell 0.2 percent while Bahrain’s  measure 
retreated 0.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zahra Hankir  in Dubai at   zhankir@bloomberg.net  or  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net . 