-- Dubai Raises $1.25 Billion in First Bond Sale Since Dubai World Crisis
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2010-09-29T15:39:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/dubai-government-raises-1-25-billion-in-2-part-5-and-10-year-bond-sale.html
Dubai raised $1.25 billion in a
two-part bond sale in its first sovereign debt issue since the
Dubai World credit crisis roiled global markets.  The Persian Gulf financial hub’s five-year, $500 million
note was priced to yield 6.7 percent, while the $750 million 10-
year bond was priced to yield 7.75 percent, according to a
government statement e-mailed today. The bonds generated more
than 370 orders valued at about $5 billion, according to the
statement.  “This is a vote of confidence for Dubai,”  Mohieddine Kronfol , managing director for asset management at Algebra
Capital Ltd. in Dubai, said in a phone interview today. “We
hope Dubai continues with its restructuring, provides greater
transparency and ultimately moves to acquire a credit rating.”  Dubai World, one of the emirate’s three main state-owned
holding companies, said Sept. 10 creditors holding more than 99
percent of the value of its loans approved a plan to alter the
terms on $24.9 billion of debt. The deepest financial crisis
since the 1930s sparked a more than 50 percent decline in
property prices in Dubai and froze credit markets, preventing
some of the emirate’s state-owned companies from raising new
loans.  “The government has taken prudent measures to control
costs and manage its budget deficit and this successful issuance
provides Dubai with additional liquidity for general budgetary
purposes,”  Abdulrahman Al Saleh , director general of Dubai’s
Department of Finance, said in the statement today.  Deficit Narrows  Dubai’s government has projected a deficit of 5.99 billion
dirhams ($1.6 billion) this year, narrowing from 12.9 billion
dirhams last year, according to a bond prospectus published
Sept. 27. Dubai’s government had outstanding debt of 105.47
billion dirhams at the end of July, according to the prospectus.  Dubai’s sale is the first by the emirate after Dubai World
announced plans last November to delay debt repayments. Dubai
and its state-owned companies borrowed $109.3 billion as the
emirate transformed itself into a financial, logistics and
tourism hub, with about $15.5 billion of debt due this year,
according to estimates from the International Monetary Fund.  Dubai’s 6.396 percent Islamic bonds maturing 2014 were
trading unchanged at a yield of 6.428 percent at 6:10 p.m. in
the emirate, according to prices on Bloomberg. In contrast, the
5.5 percent bonds due 2014 sold by Dubai’s richer neighbor Abu
Dhabi, was trading at a yield of 2.191 percent today. Dubai
borrowed about $20 billion last year from the U.A.E. government
and Abu Dhabi to help its state-owned firms.  Note Program  The sheikhdom’s government last sold bonds in October 2009,
when the Department of Finance raised $1.93 billion from five-
year Islamic notes. In the same month, the emirate set up a $2.5
billion Islamic medium-term note program and a $4 billion plan
to sell regular bonds, although it still has no credit rating.  In an attempt to spur the emirate’s economy, Dubai’s
government on Sept. 26 said it is allowing  Dubai Islamic Bank
PJSC , the U.A.E.’s largest Shariah-compliant bank, to purchase a
majority stake in  Tamweel PJSC  with the aim of reviving mortgage
lending. Frozen credit markets had blocked Tamweel’s and Amlak
Finance PJSC’s access to funds and forced what were once the two
biggest mortgage lenders in Dubai to stop lending.  Deutsche Bank AG, HSBC Holdings Plc and Standard Chartered
Plc managed Dubai’s dollar bond offering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Arif Sharif  in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 Eevans3@bloomberg.net  