-- Dubai Financial Market to Meet MSCI Requirements With DvP, CEO Kazim Says
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   Z a h r a a   A l k h a l i s i
-- 2010-09-29T11:16:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/dubai-financial-market-to-meet-msci-requirements-on-dvp-system-kazim-says.html
Dubai Financial Market PJSC  plans
to move to a so-called delivery-versus-payment system by the end
of 2010, a move that may help the market’s inclusion in the  MSCI
Emerging Market Index , Chief Executive Officer  Essa Kazim  said.  “This would meet one of the requirements of the MSCI,”
Kazim said in a telephone interview today. “It is also a
natural evolution of the market.” The settlement period for
transactions will remain the same, and shares and funds will be
simultaneously swapped or transferred, Kazim said. “This move
will automatically give segregation between agent and custody,”
which MSCI also requires, he added.  Index provider MSCI Inc. in June cited United Arab
Emirates’ dual account structure as one of the reasons for its
frontier market status and kept the country under review for
reclassification. Delivery versus payment is a securities
industry procedure in which payment for a security must be made
when the security is delivered. Usually, the payment is made to
a bank, which in turn pays for the security.  FTSE Group became the first to categorize the U.A.E. as an
emerging market this month, helping attract part of the $3
trillion of funds that track the global index compiler’s
benchmarks. Shares of 21 companies including  Emaar Properties
PJSC  were added to the FTSE’s Global Equity Index after the
close on Sept. 17. Dubai’s index has gained 3.4 percent since
the inclusion.  ‘Step Forward’  The new payment system “is a significant step forward for
local markets,” said  Saad al-Chalabi , an institutional trader at
Al Ramz Securities in Abu Dhabi. “This will get us that much
closer to requalifying for the MSCI Emerging Markets Index and
bring back a portion of the international funds that track it,
which will bring back the liquidity in the markets.”  A plunge in Dubai trading volumes to the lowest in four
years left stock brokers in the Persian Gulf country struggling
to make ends meet, forcing some to close. At least 12 brokerages
in the country have submitted requests to the Securities and
Commodities Authority to suspend operations this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Zahra Hankir  in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
 Zahraa Alkhalisi  in Abu Dhabi at 
 zalkhalisi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler in Dubai at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  