-- Lebanon Needs Investment in `Choking' Broadband Network, Regulator Says
-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 2010-09-29T13:49:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/lebanon-needs-investment-in-choking-broadband-network-regulator-says.html
Lebanon needs to invest at least
$200 million in its Internet broadband infrastructure to bring
services to levels of other countries in the Middle East, said
the head of Lebanon’s  Telecommunications Regulatory Authority .  “The broadband network inside the country is choking,”
Imad Hoballah, TRA’s acting chairman and chief executive
officer, said in an interview today. “The current available
bandwidth is below the demand level and this is directly
impacting residential end-users and corporate end-users
alike.”  Market assessments and studies by the regulator based on
regional benchmarks indicate that Lebanon’s broadband
penetration, currently at 16 percent, is “far below the market
potential,” Hoballah said.  Lebanon, which has a population of about 4.2 million,
could have broadband market penetration exceeding 30 percent if
the required infrastructure and investment were in place, he
said. Lebanon has one of the lowest penetration rates in the
region, according to telecommunications and media consulting
firm Arab Advisors Group, based in Jordan.  “Ten years ago they were at the forefront of the Arab
world’s telecommunications market,” said Jawad Abassi, founder
and general manager of  Arab Advisors  Group. Since then, other
countries have “liberalized their telecommunications sector
and adopted a modern approach to the industry, except Lebanon,
which regressed into a 1970s model where the government
controls, owns and plans everything.”  Sale Plans  Plans to sell two mobile-phone companies, which previous
Lebanese governments hoped would raise as much as $7 billion
and help retire a portion of the country’s $51 public debt,
were put on hold by the global credit crisis and parliamentary
elections in June of last year. They have also been delayed by
political bickering.  “We need to open up and introduce new regulatory tools,”
Hoballah said. “We need to enhance and complete the current
regulatory framework by addressing regulations related to the
infrastructure, sharing and national roaming.”  An investment of $500 million would put Lebanon on par
with countries in Europe and North America, Hoballah said.  Lebanon’s Ministry of Telecommunications is investing in
infrastructure and aims to build a digital-optical backbone
network and upgrade the capacity of a fiber-optic cable that
connects the country to Cyprus, Hoballah said. It’s also
upgrading the ultra-high-capacity fiber-optic submarine cable
system linking India and Europe via the Middle East, which will
increase Lebanon’s international bandwidth to 120 gigabits per
second, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Massoud A. Derhally  in Beirut, Lebanon at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net  