-- Ecuador Central Bank Criticizes Plan to Back Deposits with Treasury Notes
-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 2010-09-29T17:47:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/ecuador-central-bank-criticizes-plan-to-back-deposits-with-treasury-notes.html
Ecuadorean central bank President
 Diego Borja  criticized a government plan to allow financial
institutions to use state bonds to guarantee deposits, saying
that that banks’ reserves need to be liquid.  President  Rafael Correa  this month sent congress a bill
that would allow banks to use short-term government bonds for as
much as 75 percent of their reserves. The bill would also let
the government boost public debt to 50 percent of  gross domestic
product  from the current limit of 40 percent, according to a
draft of the bill on congress’  website .  Ecuador is tapping local markets and the nation’s pension
fund to finance public spending after defaulting on more than
$3.2 billion in international debt since 2008. The country’s
social security institute will probably buy most of the $1.5
billion of local bonds issued by the Finance Ministry this year,
institute President  Ramiro Gonzalez  said in a June 30 interview.  “Banks have to keep their reserves in cash,” Borja told
reporters today in Quito. “They can’t back their deposits in
bonds paid by the state. Reserves have to be liquid.”  Borja said Ecuadorean banks have “excess liquidity” that
could be used to buy government debt and said the nation’s
financial system is experiencing its “best moments.”  The government next year will also begin offering treasury
notes with a term of less than one year to boost liquidity,
Finance Minister  Patricio Rivera  said Sept. 24.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Ecuadorean dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed 5 basis points, or
0.05 percentage point, to 10.36 percent at 1:05 p.m. New York
time, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ index. Ecuador’s
spread has widened 23 basis points in the third-quarter,
compared with a 47 basis-point drop for the index.  Ecuadorean sovereign debt is the second-riskiest after
Venezuela’s among 15 emerging markets tracked by JPMorgan,
according to the bank’s EMBI+ indexes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nathan Gill  in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  