-- Ed Miliband Would Slow Pace of Spending Reductions If U.K. Growth Faltered
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2010-09-29T09:14:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/ed-miliband-would-slow-pace-of-spending-reductions-if-u-k-growth-faltered.html
Ed Miliband , the newly elected
leader of the U.K.’s opposition Labour Party, said he would slow
the speed at which the budget deficit is being narrowed if
economic growth faltered.  Miliband said Labour’s policy of cutting the shortfall in
half over four years is a “good starting point” and rejected
deeper spending reductions even if the economy improved. He said
the coalition government’s plan to almost close the gap by 2015
is dangerous and will harm British society.  “What the coalition is doing is extremely damaging and I
think very dangerous,” Miliband told BBC Radio 4 today at
Labour’s annual conference in Manchester, northwest England.
“We should always proceed on the basis that we keep looking to
what is happening to our economy, because if there is a big
downturn, and I hope this doesn’t happen, clearly, you would
need to look again at the scale and the pace of deficit
reduction.”  The comments are the clearest indication yet that a future
Labour administration would abandon Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s proposals for the deepest spending cuts since World
War II. They come two days after the International Monetary Fund
praised Cameron’s plans, saying their “benefits outweigh the
expected costs in terms of adverse effects on near-term
growth.”  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  has outlined
spending cuts and tax increases totaling 113 billion pounds
($179 billion) to reduce a deficit of 11 percent of economic
output. Further details will be given in the government’s
comprehensive spending review on Oct. 20.  Miliband also said he wants to increase a levy on banks and
keep the top 50 percent rate of income tax to “change the
balance between taxation and spending.”  “There is a real threat for growth in our economy,”
Miliband said. “The scale and pace of the cuts are going to
have a very damaging effect on our communities throughout the
country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gonzalo Vina  in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 