-- Medvedev Bond Gain Shows Luzhkov Ouster No Yukos for Market: Russia Credit
-- B y   E m m a   O ’ B r i e n   a n d   D e n i s   M a t e r n o v s k y
-- 2010-09-29T12:25:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/medvedev-yields-near-low-on-confidence-after-luzhkov-ouster-russia-credit.html
Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev ’s
ouster of Moscow Mayor  Yury Luzhkov  is reinforcing investor
confidence in the government’s ability to take charge of the
economy as benchmark foreign bond yields tumble to lows.  Russian dollar notes due 2015 rose today, pushing the yield
down 3 basis points to 3.466 percent, the lowest since the bonds
were sold in April, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Bank of Moscow Eurobonds due in November rose, pushing the yield
down 149 basis points to 2.802 percent, the biggest decline in
10 weeks, after rising 137 basis points yesterday.  Medvedev, who vowed to fight corruption after he took
office in May 2008, dismissed Luzhkov yesterday after 18 years
in office amid allegations he showed favoritism toward his wife,
billionaire developer  Yelena Baturina , in approving contracts.
Luzhkov denied any wrongdoing on Sept. 18, saying Baturina would
be “even richer” if she wasn’t his wife, according to the
state-run RIA Novosti news service. Russia is ranked 146th on
Transparency International’s least-corrupt countries list, worse
than Brazil, China and India.  “Mayor Luzhkov represented the sort of administration that
President Medvedev wanted rid of,”  Chris Weafer , chief
strategist in Moscow at UralSib Financial Corp., said in an e-
mailed note to clients yesterday. “It’s the highest profile
action he has taken to remove old school bureaucrats and a
powerful response to persistent accusations of cronyism and
corrupt practices.”  Medvedev Manifesto  Medvedev, 45, published a manifesto last year exhorting
people to join him in fighting corruption and to help reduce the
world’s biggest energy-exporting economy’s reliance on natural
resources. He has touted the creation of a Russian “Silicon
Valley” outside of Moscow, promoted the capital’s development
as a future international financial center and pushed for making
the ruble a regional reserve currency.  Luzhkov, 74, returned from a week-long vacation Sept. 27
refusing to step down in the face of Kremlin pressure. Sergei
Tsoi, a spokesman for the former mayor, had his mobile phone
switched off yesterday.  Medvedev’s showdown with Luzhkov signals a turnaround in
investor perceptions toward Russia, which soured amid the 2008
war with neighboring Georgia and the Kremlin’s prosecution of
 Mikhail Khodorkovsky , once Russia’s wealthiest man and the head
of oil producer OAO Yukos Oil Co., according to  Cornel Bruhin , a
fund manager with Swiss private bank Clariden Leu AG.  ‘Clean Sacking’  Khodorkovsky was sentenced to eight years in a Siberian
prison in 2005 for tax evasion and fraud, charges he claims were
retribution for his political opposition to then-President
 Vladimir Putin . He faces an additional 22 ½ years in jail if
found guilty in a second trial. The arrest in October 2003
prompted foreign investors to withdraw $9.5 billion from the
country and spurred a 2 percent slide that month in the
benchmark government dollar bonds due 2030, according to
Bloomberg data.  “In the past this kind of sacking would have hammered
assets but this time it was clean and properly solved,” said
Bruhin, who helps manage $3.5 billion of emerging market assets
at Zurich, Switzerland-based Clariden. Bruhin said he bought
Bank of Moscow bonds yesterday after Luzhkov’s ouster.
“Medvedev is changing the way people think about politics and
the Russian economy,” he said.  ‘Buying Opportunity’  Bank of Moscow dollar bonds due March 2015 plunged, sending
yields up 30 basis points, or 0.30 percentage point, on Sept.
14, after media attacks on Luzhkov, including a television
documentary blaming him for such problems as corruption and
traffic jams, began Sept. 10. Bank of Moscow is more than 46
percent owned by the city, according to an August presentation
by the bank. Units of Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Credit Suisse
Group AG also hold stakes in the lender.  The drop in price makes the bonds a “buying opportunity,”
according to Bruhin, Moscow-based investment bank VTB Capital,
and  Dmitry Barinov , a fund manager at Union Investment Gmbh,
which also owns the bank’s bonds.  “The bonds are a clear buy once the dust settles,”
Barinov said yesterday by phone from Frankfurt.  The 2015 bonds are yielding 6.283 percent, after rising 4
basis points to 6.319 percent yesterday. The yield was near a
record-low of 5.89 percent on Sept. 13.  ‘Medvedev Man’  The firing of Luzhkov isn’t “significant” enough to buoy
Russian debt prices,  Paul McNamara , who oversees $4.5 billion of
emerging market debt, including ruble bonds sold by Moscow, at
Augustus Asset Management Ltd., said in a phone interview from
London yesterday.  “There is absolutely no financial pressure on either the
city or the Bank of Moscow so I am pretty emphatic this is not
important in credit terms,” McNamara said. “This is done to
replace somebody who is not a Medvedev man with a Medvedev man
and it’s is driven by politics rather than reform.”  Vladimir Resin , a Luzhkov deputy, was named as acting
mayor. Putin said yesterday he and Medvedev, who he hand-picked
as his successor as president, would discuss candidates for the
mayoral position. Moscow, Russia’s largest city, accounted for
about 24 percent of the country’s gross domestic product in
2008, according to government data.  Eurobonds, Ruble  The yield on the city’s euro-denominated bonds due next
October fell 32 basis points to 2.502 percent today, trading
near a record low of 2.491 percent on April 21. Russia’s dollar
bonds due in 2020 are yielding 4.485 percent, near the lowest
since they were sold in April in the government’s first
international bond offering since defaulting on $40 billion of
domestic debt in 1998.  The ruble gained 0.4 percent to 30.3974 per dollar by 3:45
p.m. in Moscow, heading for its strongest close since Aug. 18.
Non-deliverable forwards, or NDFs, which provide a guide to
expectations of currency movements and interest rate
differentials and allow companies to hedge against currency
movements, show the ruble at 30.6052 per dollar in three months,
from 31.2238 a week ago.  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps fell 0.5 basis points to
163, according to data provider CMA. The contracts pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a government or company fail to adhere to its
debt agreements. Bank of Moscow credit-default swaps rose 12
basis points to 442 points yesterday, the highest since Aug. 13.  Yield Spread  Credit-default swaps for Russia, rated Baa1 by Moody’s
Investors Service, its third-lowest investment grade rating,
cost 1.5 basis points more than contracts for Turkey, which is
rated four levels lower at Ba2. Russia swaps  cost  as much as 40
basis points less on April 20.  The  yield   spread  on Russian bonds is 52 basis points below
the average for emerging markets, down from a 15-month high of
105 in February, according to JPMorgan indexes.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries dropped 2 basis points to 236 today,
according to JPMorgan EMBI+ indexes. The difference compares
with 157 for debt of similarly rated Mexico and 210 for Brazil,
which is rated two steps lower at Baa3 by Moody’s.  The prospect of the city government withdrawing capital or
support from the Bank of Moscow is unlikely in the wake of
Luzhkov’s firing and Moody’s won’t be reviewing the lender’s
credit rating,  Yaroslav Sovgyra , a senior analyst with the
credit ratings company, said by phone yesterday.  Credit Rating ‘Trigger’  Moody’s rates Bank of Moscow Baa1, three levels above non-
investment grade and the same as Russia’s sovereign rating, with
a negative outlook. The city of Moscow carries the same rating
with a stable outlook.  “The ratings of the bank are not dependent on Mr.
Luzhkov,” Sovgyra said. “The city will remain in control of
Bank of Moscow.”  Should the new city administration withdraw its support for
the bank it would “definitely” trigger a review of Bank of
Moscow’s BBB- rating, the lowest investment grade,  Alexander Danilov , an analyst at Fitch Ratings, said in a phone interview
yesterday from Moscow.  “The change of mayor itself is not a factor,” Danilov
said. Fitch rates the city of Moscow BBB, the same as the
sovereign.  Luzhkov, who was first appointed mayor by then-President
 Boris Yeltsin  in 1992, was the longest serving regional chief
since the collapse of the Soviet Union. Medvedev has replaced at
least three other senior leaders in the past year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Emma O’Brien  in Moscow at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
 Denis Maternovsky  in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  