-- Lehman, Nortel Join to Challenge U.K. Regulator on Pension Debt in Court
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2010-09-29T13:45:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/lehman-nortel-join-to-challenge-u-k-regulator-on-pension-debt-in-court.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. ’s
European unit and  Nortel Networks Corp.  are challenging the U.K.
Pensions Regulator in court over whether they must pay as much
as a combined 2.25 billion pounds ($3.55 billion).  The  Pensions Regulator  this month issued a so-called
financial support direction against Lehman Brothers and its
affiliates seeking funds to cover a deficit of more than 148
million pounds in the former investment bank’s retirement plan.
The panel  issued a similar order  against Toronto-based Nortel in
July seeking as much as 2.1 billion pounds for the underfunding
of its plan.  Lehman Brothers International Europe and Nortel are jointly
challenging the regulator’s claims in a London court, saying
they shouldn’t be required to pay the deficits while they are in
administration or bankruptcy protection. Judge  Kim Lewison  ruled
at the hearing today that the parent company and Lehman Brothers
Asset Management (Europe) Ltd. can also join the challenge to
protect their specific interests.  Lehman doesn’t want to have to pay the European unit’s
debts, its lawyer,  Barry Isaacs , said at the hearing.  David Hannant, a spokesman for the regulator, declined to
comment because the case is ongoing.  Lehman Brothers filed the largest bankruptcy in U.S.
history in September 2008, and its European unit is liquidating
in London. Nortel and affiliates filed for bankruptcy in the
U.S., Canada and London in January 2009.  A bankruptcy judge in Delaware ruled last month that
efforts by the U.K. regulator to force Nortel to contribute to
its retirement plan violate the so-called automatic stay in the
case, and halted the request.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Lindsay Fortado  in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 