-- Telstra Says It Will Have to Reduce Jobs, Number Hasn't Been Decided
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2010-09-30T01:23:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/telstra-says-fewer-staff-will-be-required-thodey-pledges-to-boost-service.html
Telstra Corp.  said it will cut
workers as Australia’s largest telecommunications company lowers
prices to protect market share and stem a decline in profit.  “Telstra has not confirmed the number of affected
employees,” spokesman Craig Middleton wrote in an e-mail.
“When we do, we will first speak directly to them.” The
comment follows a  report  in the Australian Financial Review
earlier today saying the Melbourne-based company may cut at
least 6,000 positions, of 15 percent of its workforce, in the
next three years.  Chief Executive Officer  David Thodey  is reducing prices for
mobile-phone and Internet services to stem a loss of customers
to smaller rivals including  Singapore Telecommunications Ltd. ’s
Optus unit. Telstra posted a decline in profit for the six
months through June on declining sales of fixed-line services,
which have wider profit margins, and said last month earnings
may drop in 2011.  Telstra is planning to increase its mobile and digital-
television services and add network applications, the company
said in a statement yesterday. It will reduce bureaucracy,
especially in management, and introduce online self-service
systems, Middleton said today.  Natural Attrition  Telstra fell 0.8 percent to A$2.66 as of 10:44 a.m. in
Sydney trading. The  shares  have declined 22 percent this year,
underperforming a 5.1 percent drop by the benchmark S&P/ASX 200
Index.  In addition to the 6,000 job cuts, Telstra will lose
workers through natural attrition, making the rate of reduction
comparable to the 12,000 positions eliminated over four and a
half years under former CEO  Sol Trujillo , according to the AFR
report.  The cuts will start in management and back-office roles and
move to frontline employees later, the newspaper said.  Net income fell to A$2.03 billion ($1.97 billion) in the
six months ended June 30 from A$2.16 billion a year earlier.
Telstra expects earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization to decline by a “high single-digit
percentage” in 2011, it said in a regulatory filing last month.  Telstra said in July it would cut about 10 percent of
executive jobs, involving 30 positions, with a further 300
senior management roles being eliminated. The company will pay
about A$220 million in redundancy costs in the year ending June
30, 2011, Chief Financial Officer  John Stanhope  said at an
investors’ briefing yesterday.  Second Reorganization  The changes by Thodey, who became CEO last year, supersede
Trujillo’s so-called “transformation” plan for Telstra started
in 2006.  Since taking charge 16 months ago, Thodey has pledged to
improve customer service and create a more flexible culture at
the former government monopoly. Last year, he froze salaries for
the company’s top 200 executives and capped most other pay
increases at 2 percent.  Thodey told investors yesterday the company can
“comfortably” pay an annual dividend of 28 Australian cents in
the year ending June 30, after spending A$1 billion to increase
its market share during the fiscal year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nichola Saminather  in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  