-- Emaar Plans to Sell $375 Million of Convertible Notes
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h   a n d   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2010-09-29T15:11:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/emaar-hires-jpmorgan-rbs-stanchart-to-sell-375-million-convertible-note.html
Emaar Properties PJSC , the biggest
publicly traded real-estate developer in the United Arab
Emirates, plans to raise at least $375 million by selling five-
year convertible notes to help repay short-term debt.  Including an oversubscription option, the issue may raise
as much as $500 million, the Dubai-government-controlled company
said in a  statement  posted on its website today.  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. ,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and  Standard Chartered
Plc  are managing the sale and the securities will be listed on
the Luxembourg Stock Exchange, it said.  “It’s very obvious that they are replacing short-term debt
with long-term debt, which is the smart thing to do,”  Ahmed Badr , a Dubai-based analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG, said by
telephone. Demand for the issue will be greater than the number
of notes offered, he said.  Emaar, along with another state-controlled developer
Nakheel PJSC, spearheaded a building boom in Dubai after the
emirate allowed foreigners to buy homes in some areas in 2002.
The building boom was halted in 2008 after the global credit
crisis dried up mortgage lending and demand evaporated, sparking
a more than 50 percent plunge in home prices.  Crisis Impact  Emaar, which has developed the world’s tallest tower in
Dubai, had 9.5 billion dirhams ($2.6 billion) of outstanding
debt at the end of June, according to its quarterly results
filing. Of that, 5.2 billion dirhams is due within 12 months.  The developer may have to make provisions related to its 48
percent stake in Amlak Finance PJSC, the U.A.E.’s second-biggest
mortgage lender, which has been unable to raise funds since the
seizer of global credit markets. The writedown will be necessary
should “Amlak’s financial condition worsen or fail to
improve,” Emaar said.  Some of Dubai’s state-owned companies are struggling to
repay debt after the economic crisis froze debt markets and
prevented them from raising new loans. Dubai World, one of the
emirate’s three main state-owned holding companies, said on
Sept. 10 it reached an agreement with more than 99 percent of
its creditors to alter the terms on $24.9 billion of debt.  Dubai’s government today raised $1.25 billion from the sale
of five- and 10-year notes, tapping international capital
markets for the first time since the Dubai World debt crisis.  Emaar’s convertible notes may pay a coupon of 7.25 percent
to 8.25 percent and will convert at a premium of 20 percent to
30 percent to the reference share price, according to the offer
document.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Zainab Fattah  in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net 
 Arif Sharif  in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 Eevans3@bloomberg.net  