-- Emerging-Market Stocks Rise to Highest Since June 2008 on Chinese Growth
-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2010-09-29T21:46:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/emerging-market-stocks-rise-to-highest-since-june-2008-on-chinese-growth.html
Emerging-market stocks rose to a
27-month high, currencies strengthened and borrowing costs fell
after China’s manufacturing accelerated and investors speculated
central banks in the U.S. and Japan will ease monetary policy.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  climbed 0.9 percent to
1,070.38 by 5 p.m. New York time, the highest level since June
2008. The extra  yield  investors demand to hold emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries dropped 15 basis points to 2.75
percentage points, the most in four weeks, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ Index. The  Turkish lira , Taiwanese dollar
and Indian rupee appreciated at least 0.5 percent against the
dollar.  The MSCI emerging index extended this month’s gain to 10
percent after a purchasing managers’ gauge showed manufacturing
in China accelerated for a second straight month in September,
adding to signs the fastest-growing major economy is stabilizing
after policy makers curbed lending. Speculation that the Federal
Reserve and Bank of Japan will take further steps to bolster
growth helped increase demand for higher-yielding, developing-
nation assets.  “Emerging markets in Asia will continue to be in good
shape as China’s strong growth remains intact,” said Chu Moon
Sung, a fund manager at Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management Co.
in Seoul, which manages $27 billion. “Ample liquidity should be
positive for both equities and bonds.”  Record Highs  The benchmark equity index in Indonesia climbed to a
record, while Thailand’s  SET Index  advanced to the highest level
since November 1996. Russia’s Micex Index added 0.6 percent, the
biggest gain since Sept. 20, as energy companies including OAO
Gazprom and OAO Rosneft rallied on higher oil prices.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA , Brazil’s state-controlled oil
company, advanced after saying work on the Franco offshore field
will not delay the company’s other projects.  The MSCI China Index  of Hong Kong-traded shares climbed 1.5
percent for the biggest gain among equity gauges in major
emerging markets. A purchasing managers’ index released today by
HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics rose to 52.9, the highest
level in five months, from 51.9 in August. The data are
seasonally adjusted and readings above 50 indicate an expansion.  Jiangxi Copper Co. , China’s biggest producer of the metal,
advanced 4.2 percent in Hong Kong.  U.S. reports yesterday showing a bigger-than-forecast drop
in consumer confidence to the lowest level since February and
the smallest year-over-year gain in home prices since March
helped trigger bets that the Fed would announce another round of
U.S. bond purchases, a practice known as quantitative easing.  Japan’s Nikkei-225 Stock Average advanced 0.7 percent today
even as the nation’s Tankan index of business sentiment rose the
least since early 2009. Investors are speculating the Bank of
Japan will take more steps to bolster economic growth, said
 Yoshinori Nagano , a senior strategist in Tokyo at Daiwa Asset
Management Co., which oversees about $111 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chan Tien Hin  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 Mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  