-- Emirates Group Starts Search to Buy Food Assets in Australia, New Zealand
-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r   a n d   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2010-09-29T04:09:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/emirates-group-starts-search-to-buy-food-assets-in-australia-new-zealand.html
Emirates Investments Group LLC, a
United Arab Emirates-based investor, is looking to buy food and
agricultural assets in Australia and New Zealand as global
demand climbs, Chief Executive Officer  Raza Jafar  said.  “We’ve started exploring and we’re going to explore across
the board, in Australia and New Zealand and this entire
region,” Jafar said in an interview in Sydney today. “We are
very nimble, and we can react fast to good opportunities.”  Australian companies worth a combined A$45.6 billion ($44
billion), including wine and beer maker  Foster’s Group Ltd. ,
have become takeover targets in the face of a global food and
energy shortage, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc said two weeks
ago. While privately held Emirates Investments isn’t seeking to
buy Australian energy assets, “food and agriculture would
remain of interest to us,” Jafar said.  There is “long-term growth possibility in this industry,
because food security is becoming an issue,” Jafar said.  Emirates Investments, which already holds Australian assets
such as a stake in the Palazzo Versace luxury hotel on the Gold
Coast in Queensland state, has appointed external advisers to
help it find local opportunities.  “I’ve just asked the team to continue looking at it and
give us a report on what would be the best areas to partner
with,” said Jafar, who is participating in the Forbes Global
CEO Conference in Sydney this week.  Jafar declined to detail the size of any potential
investment and said “sometimes it’s cheaper to buy the company
than the asset of the company” and “sometimes it’s the other
way around.”  Conditions Are Right  Sydney-based RBS analyst Greg Goodsell said in a Sept. 15
report that conditions are right for takeovers of Australia
assets, as the worst of the economic slowdown has passed, a
double-dip recession in the U.S. is unlikely and it’s easier and
cheaper to raise funds. Asset values are also yet to bounce back
to previous highs, he said.  Foster’s , with a market value of A$12 billion, is the
largest target on an RBS list of dozens of buyout candidates.
The company plans to spin off its winemaking unit and this month
rejected a private equity bid for that business.  In the agricultural industry,  GrainCorp Ltd. , eastern
Australia’s largest grain handler, may be bought by an overseas
rival, RBS said. AWB Ltd., Australia’s largest wheat exporter,
has already fallen to a foreign buyer, after GrainCorp’s all-
stock offer for AWB was last month rejected in favor of a cash
bid from Canada’s Agrium Inc.  Maryborough Sugar Factory Ltd.  and  Warrnambool Cheese &
Butter Factory Co.  may also be bought, Goodsell said.  Emirates Investments may work with one of its Australian
partners, TFS Corp Ltd., the Perth-based manager of a sandalwood
plantation, in making further local investments, Jafar said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jacob Greber  in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net ;
 Angus Whitley  in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  