-- Eni Ends EU Competition Case With Offer to Sell Stakes in Three Pipelines
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2010-09-29T09:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/eni-ends-eu-competition-case-with-offer-to-sell-stakes-in-three-pipelines.html
Eni SpA  averted possible antitrust
fines after European Union regulators accepted its offer to
settle a competition case by selling stakes in natural-gas
pipelines.  Eni’s proposal to sell stakes in three pipelines was
made legally binding, the  European Commission  said in an e-
mailed statement today. Under the settlement, Italy’s largest
oil and gas company will avoid the risk of EU fines for
restricting access to its transmission network.  “The legally-binding commitments will ensure that capacity
hoarding and degradation will no longer take place on the
transport pipelines into Italy and that the proper investment
incentives will prevail,”  Joaquin Almunia , the European Union’s
antitrust commissioner, said in the statement.  The case is the latest in a series of European Commission
probes of energy companies including RWE AG,  E.ON AG  and
 Electricite de France SA . The Brussels-based commission, the 27-
nation EU’s antitrust regulator, said last year that Eni may
have abused its dominant position by limiting its investment in
a network that brings Russian gas into Italy from Germany and
Austria.  After 2003 EU laws gave customers the right to choose
suppliers, the commission has sought to make it easier for gas
and power companies without their own grids to compete.  Eni offered on  Feb. 4 offer  to sell off shares in the
German TENP gas pipeline and in Switzerland’s Transitgas
pipeline and to transfer a stake in the Trans-Austria Gas, or
TAG, pipeline to the Italian government.  The commission’s other probes led RWE to sell its gas-
transmission network, E.ON to shed its power grid in Germany and
Electricite de France, Europe’s biggest power producer, to make
changes to long-term electricity supply contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 