-- H&M Third-Quarter Profit Misses Estimates on Higher Costs
-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a   a n d   K i m   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2010-09-29T14:15:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/hennes-mauritz-third-quarter-profit-misses-analysts-estimates-on-costs.html
Hennes & Mauritz AB , Europe’s
second-largest clothing retailer, fell the most in almost two
years in Stockholm trading after third-quarter profitability
missed analysts’ estimates.  The shares dropped as much as 7.5 percent, the  steepest 
intraday decline since Dec. 5, 2008.  A 23 percent increase in third-quarter profit was below
estimates as the gross margin narrowed. H&M said it increased
investment in improving the “customer offering,” without being
more specific. The retailer may be spending more on production
without passing the full cost on to customers, or cutting
prices, said  Simon Irwin , an analyst at Liberum Capital.  “In some markets, retailers are succeeding in raising
prices,”  Anne Critchlow , an analyst at Societe Generale in
London, said in an e-mail. “H&M trades lower down the price
scale than most and it is harder to increase prices at the lower
end than further up the scale.”  Net income climbed to 4.24 billion kronor in the three
months through August, from 3.46 billion kronor a year earlier,
Stockholm-based H&M said today. That missed the 4.54 billion-
kronor  average  of 17 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Gross margin narrowed to 60.5 percent from 61.6 percent a
year earlier, H&M said. The consensus estimate was for the
margin to widen 0.7 percentage points, according to Critchlow.  H&M’s price investment in the quarter was “much” more
than expected, said Liberum Capital’s Irwin, adding that the
results were 10 percent below his estimates.  Reduced Target  Margin benefits realized earlier this year from exchange
rates, spare capacity at suppliers, transport costs and raw
material prices are diminishing, the retailer said.  H&M also cut its store-opening target for the year to 220
from 240, saying the development of some shopping malls had been
halted because of the weak economy, mainly in southern Europe.  H&M’s investments may total 5 billion kronor this year,
down from a previous target of 6 billion kronor, Chief Executive
Officer  Karl-Johan Persson  said in an interview in Stockholm.
The retailer is still comfortable with an annual store growth
target of 10 percent to 15 percent, he said.  “The space growth reduction is not something I would lose
sleep on,”  Luca Solca , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, said
by e-mail. “I don’t see a risk that H&M should reduce its space
growth guidance long term.”  Sales Increase  Third-quarter  revenue  was 26.89 billion kronor, excluding
value-added tax, up 14 percent from a year earlier, H&M said.  August sales at stores and home-shopping units open at
least a year rose 14 percent, the biggest increase since May
2008, the retailer also said today. Sales at local-currency
rates climbed 24 percent last month and gained 15 percent in the
month through Sept. 27, H&M said.  H&M  shares  were down 18.9 kronor, or 7.3 percent, to 240.1
kronor at 4:10 p.m. in Stockholm trading. They have risen 21
percent this year, compared with the 34 percent gain in Madrid
of larger Spanish competitor  Inditex SA , the owner of the Zara
and Massimo Dutti chains. The Spanish retailer last week said
net income rose 68 percent, beating estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Armorel Kenna  in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  