-- Mercedes Order By `Nothing Town' Shows Rise of India's Cities
-- B y   M e h u l   S r i v a s t a v a   a n d   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2010-09-29T21:40:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/mercedes-order-by-nothing-town-reflects-rise-of-india-s-smaller-cities.html
When a  Mercedes-Benz  salesman in
Pune, India, got a call from an obscure city six hours away
asking to buy 100 cars, he thought it was a joke.  The request came from  Aurangabad , a community of 2 million
people best known for its  caves  and cotton. The city doubled in
size during the past decade after investments by  Siemens AG ,
which built a  factory for telecom equipment , and SABMiller Plc,
which constructed a  brewery .  More than 100 members of the  Aurangabad Chamber of
Marathawada Industries and Agriculture  ordered the luxury cars
to grab some attention for what was once a dusty trading town,
according to Sacheen Mulay, president of the local chamber of
commerce and industry.  Daimler AG , the world’s second-largest
maker of luxury cars, took note after Mulay led a delegation to
the Pune dealership and gave a PowerPoint presentation about
their city.  “Aurangabad has grown like anything, and people still
thought of Aurangabad as this nothing town,” said Mulay. “This
is a place of potential buyers, new-generation entrepreneurs.
People should take notice of that.”  Aurangabad isn’t alone in trying to get attention, reports
Bloomberg BusinessWeek in its Oct. 1 issue. A Sept. 14 report by
the Boston Consulting Group said multinational corporations
typically invest heavily in the top 10-15 cities in countries
including India, China, Indonesia and Brazil, while ignoring
smaller cities with less obvious potential.  ‘Next Billion Consumers’  So Aurangabad; Curitiba, Brazil; Xiaochang, China; and
Yekaterinburg, Russia, are lumped together with the mostly poor,
rural populations that few companies want to pursue, BCG found.  “You see these common themes happening concurrently across
all these countries,” said Sharad Verma, a partner at BCG and
co-author of the report.  “The next billion consumers, who are far above the poverty
line, have high consuming power. They are just not coming on
people’s radars.”  Cities with fewer than 5 million residents represent 83
percent of emerging markets’ urban consumers, BCG estimated.  By 2030, another 1.3 billion people will live in emerging-
markets cities, driving 67 percent of global GDP growth. About
460 million people, earning between $5,000 and $10,000 a year,
will join the middle class in the next five years.  Delegation to Mercedes  “Most companies are failing to recognize these
opportunities,” the BCG report said.  Daimler organized a three-day roadshow for Aurangabad and
ultimately sold 148 Mercedes models there. It also promised to
build a service station in the city for its new customers, said
 Wilfried Aulbur , chief executive officer of Daimler’s India unit.  “We’re clearly focused on these tier-two and tier-three
cities,” Aulbur said, adding that sales in January-August rose
84 percent from the same period a year earlier. India sales
should rival those in the U.K. within a decade, he said.  Car sales are a good indicator of how much companies can
gain from expanding in smaller cities, said  Deepesh Rathore ,
managing director of IHS Global Insight India. August sales in
India, the third-biggest Asian economy, were up 33 percent from
a year earlier, the 19th consecutive monthly increase, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales trends from  Maruti Suzuki Ltd .,  Tata Motors Ltd . and
Hyundai Motor India Ltd. show that dealerships in smaller cities
contribute significant sales from middle-class buyers, Rathore
said. New Delhi-based Maruti has 802 sales and service outlets
in India, while Detroit-based General Motors Co. has 207.  GM, Maruti  “The most successful car for GM sells 4,000 units a year,
which compares to a moderately selling car for Maruti Suzuki,”
Rathore said. “GM has such a limited sales and service network
that there’s a big chunk of the population that they just can’t
tap.”  Other Indian companies are moving quickly into smaller
cities. Gurgaon-based  PVR Ltd ., a movie multiplex chain whose
shares have risen 75 percent since 2009, is focusing on places
most people can’t find on a map -- towns like Nanded, Ujjain and
Vijaywada, Chief Executive Officer  Pramod Arora  said.  “We believe that smaller towns and cities offer immense
opportunities, where the consumer base will grow at a phenomenal
rate,” he said. “The bigger cities will taper off.”  PVR has 70 percent of its multiplexes in big cities like
New Delhi and Mumbai, where customers pay as much as $10 to be
ushered into slick lobbies with LCD TVs hawking popcorn and
sandwiches.  In the next four years, that ratio will reverse, with only
a third of PVR’s screens being in megacities, Arora said.
Smaller theaters, charging $2-$4 in cities like Latur and
lacking air-conditioned lobbies, will make the majority of sales.  Larger Malls  Daimler will deliver 148 cars to Aurangabad by Oct. 31. The
owners then can drive to a  new $66 million  mall, one of Asia’s
largest, built by Mumbai-based  Provogue India Ltd ., a men’s
apparel maker, and London-based  Capital Shopping Centres Group
LLC , which owns nine of Britain’s largest malls.  The cities of Coimbatore, Indore and Nagpur will get malls
next, Capital Shopping Chief Executive Officer  David Fischel 
said.  “There’s phenomenal growth here,” he said. “In the time
that it takes for a smaller city to grow from 2 million to 5
million, a big city will grow from maybe 15 million to 16.  “The demographics are just in your favor.”  The people of Aurangabad, where half the residents are
under 35 years of age, are eager for places to spend money,
according to Mulay. The city doesn’t have a bowling alley, hip
nightclub or golf course, he said.  “There’s no place for leisure here,” he said. “We need
more.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mehul Srivastava  in New Delhi at 
 msrivastava6@bloomberg.net ;
 Siddharth Philip  in Mumbai 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bret Okeson at 
 bokeson@bloomberg.net  