-- Meredith Whitney Rates California Worst of 15 Biggest States, Fortune Says
-- B y   M i k e   M i l l a r d   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2010-09-29T04:37:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/meredith-whitney-plans-report-on-weak-health-of-u-s-states-fortune-says.html
Meredith Whitney , the analyst who
correctly predicted Citigroup Inc.’s dividend cut in 2008, will
release a report rating California’s financial condition as the
worst among the 15 largest U.S. states, Fortune said.  The report rates the states by four criteria: economy,
fiscal health, housing and taxes, Fortune said, citing Whitney.
Texas and Virginia are the only two states to receive overall
positive ratings, the magazine reported yesterday. An official
at Meredith Whitney Advisory Group LLC in New York confirmed the
document’s existence and said it wasn’t immediately available.  Crippling debts and deficits are about to make individual
states the next casualty of the credit crisis, Whitney said,
according to an article on the CNBC  website .  “The similarities between the states and the banks are
extreme to the extent that states have been spending
dramatically and are leveraged dramatically,” Whitney said, 
according to CNBC. “Municipal debt has doubled since 2000.
Spending has grown way faster than revenues.”  After California, New Jersey, Illinois and Ohio tie as the
second-worst, followed by Michigan, Georgia, New York and
Florida, Fortune reported. Pennsylvania, Maryland and
Massachusetts garnered neutral rankings. Her report ranks Texas,
Virginia, Washington and North Carolina as the best states,
according to Fortune.  Whitney said her report was the result of two years of work
by her firm and was made difficult by the lack of figures on
state spending and debt, according to CNBC.  Reminder of Banks  “It reminded me so much of the banks pre-crisis that we
just kept working at it,” she said in the article. “We
couldn’t find anything that gave us a clear story, we couldn’t
find any information that was transparent. So we did it
ourselves.”  Whitney also said a decline in bank trading revenue and a
double-dip in housing would hurt fourth-quarter earnings,
according to the CNBC article.  Whitney’s report is titled “Tragedy of the Commons:
Launching Ratings on the Top 15 States,” according to the
Meredith Whitney Advisory Group  website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mike Millard  in Singapore on 
mmillard2@@bloomberg.net;
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 