-- Esperanza Spalding Detours From Jazz in Spicy Chamber Music CD
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2010-09-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/esperanza-spalding-detours-from-jazz-to-spiced-up-chamber-music-interview.html
Two years ago, Esperanza Spalding
made a striking impact on the music world with her genre-defying
second album.  She’s done it again with her newest release, “Chamber
Music Society,” which shakes up old conventions with songs that
include guitar, percussion, power jazz drummer  Terri Lyne
Carrington  and vocals by Brazilian legend  Milton Nascimento .  In its five weeks on Billboard magazine’s charts, the album
 ranks No. 4  this week after peaking at No. 3.  Spalding studied chamber music and listened to Beethoven’s
piano sonatas when she was even younger than she is now (25).  “I wanted to show a much wider part of my identity,”
Spalding said in an interview at Bloomberg News headquarters in
New York.  “I felt I had given enough of an inviting introduction
that people would sit and listen to the next subject.”  Tomorrow, she’ll bring her jazz-classical fusion experiment
to New York University’s  Jack H. Skirball Center for the
Performing Arts , part of a tour that takes her to Europe.  Her seven-piece ensemble includes drummer Carrington,
pianist Leo Genovese, violinist  Sara Caswell ,  Jody Redhage  on
cello, Lois Martin on viola and vocalists Leala Cyr and  Gretchen
Parlato .  ‘Populist Jazz’  The 2008 “Esperanza” album, which straddled jazz and
adult-contemporary music, made her a crossover favorite and got
her on “The Late Show with David Letterman.” In May, the  New
Yorker magazine profiled her , calling her music “populist
jazz.”  The recognition has “allowed me to play a lot and employ
musicians that I really love and think should be heard,”
Spalding said.  A native of Portland, Oregon, Spalding joined the  Chamber
Music Society of Oregon  as a child and left as concertmaster at
age 15 to become a working musician. She entered the Berklee
College of Music about two years later.  “I wasn’t an avid classical music lover until I got to
Berklee,” she said. Five years ago, she became one of the
youngest professors in Berklee’s history.  Spalding now divides her time between the New York City
area and Austin, Texas, which has become an incubator for new
music and the host of the annual  South by Southwest  music, film
and digital media festival.  “There’s so much to know and so much to explore, and
that’s very exciting,” Spalding said. “And in that sense, I
feel as though I’ve hardly begun.”  Spalding performs tomorrow at 8 p.m. at N.Y.U.’s Jack H.
Skirball Center, 566 LaGuardia Place (at Washington Square
South) in Manhattan. Tickets are $45 to $60. Her U.S. and
European  tour  includes stops in Cambridge, Massachusetts on Oct.
2; Washington on Oct. 3, San Francisco on Oct. 10; Mannheim,
Germany, on Oct. 22; Amsterdam on Oct. 27; Stockholm on Oct. 29;
and Copenhagen on Nov. 2. Information:
 http://www.skirballcenter.nyu.edu/calendar/esperanza_spalding   To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 