-- Estonia Needs Competition as Prices Rise Ahead of Euro, Central Bank Says
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2010-09-29T12:46:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/estonia-needs-competition-as-prices-rise-ahead-of-euro-central-bank-says.html
Estonia’s government must move to
increase domestic competition to keep inflation in check as the
country’s adoption of the euro in January provides an excuse to
boost prices, the central bank said.  The state should reduce bureaucracy to stimulate the
creation of new companies and make price information more easily
available, deputy central bank Governor  Marten Ross  said today
at a news conference in Tallinn.  “We should look into improving the competitive
environment, either through more imports, opening markets or
improving supervision,” Ross said. “This is a rather acute
topic.”  Inflation expectations in the Baltic nation of 1.3 million
people are rising because of an increase in food and fuel prices
and concern euro membership will boost prices. The central bank
is trying to protect Estonia’s economic recovery after  inflation
accelerated  to 10.6 percent in 2008, choking off domestic demand
and contributing to the European Union’s second-deepest
recession during the global financial crisis.  The annual inflation rate, forecast at 4 percent this year,
may accelerate to more than 6 percent and stay above 3 percent
until 2012 if food prices increase as much as they did in 2007-
2008, according to central bank calculations.  Most Estonian retail chains raised milk prices by about 25
percent over two days this month, the Baltic News Service
reported. The state prosecutors’ office opened an investigation
last month to see whether the bread producers’ association
engaged in a price cartel. The association said bread prices
will rise as much as 20 percent due to higher production costs.  Price ‘Excuse’  “If external inflationary pressure is used as an excuse to
further raise prices, it reflects some structural problems in
the economy,” central bank Governor  Andres Lipstok  said at the
same news conference.  Euro adoption may help solve some of the competition issues
by boosting price transparency, he added.  Estonian prices and  wages  declined less during the
recession than should have expected based on the 5.1 percent
contraction of gross domestic product in 2008 and 13.9 percent
in 2010, the central bank said. Price and wage levels may fall
short of inviting new investments and creating jobs, it added.  Consumer prices jumped declined 0.2 percent last year and
may rise 2.4 percent this year, the bank said. Average wages
shrank 4.6 percent in 2009 after rising 13.8 percent in 2008,
and will probably increase 0.6 percent this year, it said.  Estonia has “few tools” to control price increases, Prime
Minister  Andrus Ansip  said last week, in response to a Sept. 20
statement by European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
that Estonia must remain “alert” on price developments and
take “forceful” action to stem inflation after joining the
euro-region economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ott Ummelas  in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  