-- Etisalat Offer for Zain Stake Said to Be $10.5 Billion
-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d   a n d   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 2010-09-29T14:23:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/etisalat-offer-for-zain-stake-said-to-be-10-5-billion.html
Emirates Telecommunications Corp. 
known as Etisalat, is offering about $10.5 billion for a
majority stake in Zain, Kuwait’s largest mobile-phone company,
two people familiar with the discussions said.  The bid is for all Zain assets controlled by shareholders
who own about 46 percent of the company, including operations in
Saudi Arabia, one of the people said, declining to be named
because the talks are private.  Zain  shareholders who are leading
the stake-sale plan to accept the Etisalat offer, the person
said. About 10 percent of Zain’s shares are held as treasury
stock, which would give Etisalat a controlling majority.  Etisalat said today it made a “conditional offer” for a
stake in Zain, as Mobile Telecommunications Co. is known. A
purchase would extend Etisalat’s reach in the Middle East, where
Zain operates in countries from Kuwait and Iraq to Bahrain after
selling most of its African assets this year to Indian
billionaire  Sunil Mittal ’s  Bharti Airtel Ltd.  for $9 billion.  “This makes (Etisalat) the strongest telecoms company in
the region,” said  Mohammed Ali Yasin , chief investment officer
at CAPM Investments in Abu Dhabi. “I believe long-term this
really is added value for Etisalat.”  Etisalat is offering 1,700 fils a share for the Zain stake,
one of the people said. That’s 25 percent more than its closing
stock price of 1,360, after it rose 7.9 percent today.  Etisalat
shares  added 0.9 percent to 10.8 dirhams today before the
statement was released.  The National Bank of Kuwait , the country’s biggest lender,
is brokering the deal, two people familiar with the matter said.  Zain’s Operations  Etisalat, the United Arab Emirates’ biggest phone carrier,
offers telecommunications services in 18 countries in the Middle
East, Africa and Asia, counting more than 100 million customers,
according to its website. The seven emirates comprising the  UAE
make up  about 86 percent of Etisalat’s sales.  The Zain offer depends on “certain requirements and
conditions,” said  Ahmed bin Ali , Etisalat’s senior vice
president for corporate communications, declining to disclose
details.  Zain had 34.2 million customers at the end of the first
half. Kuwait Investment Authority, the country’s sovereign
wealth fund, is Zain’s  largest shareholder  with 24.6 percent.
The Kharafi Group is the second-largest shareholder, with about
13 percent of the company.  Last month, Zain reported a first-half net income of $3.1
billion, aided by a $2.65 billion gain from the African asset
sale. Consolidated revenue from Zain’s Middle East operations
rose 10 percent from a year earlier to $2.33 billion, it said.  Zain earlier today said its  management  is not aware of any
stake purchase offer, according to a statement to the bourse.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vivian Salama  in Abu Dhabi at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net  or
 Fiona MacDonald  in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net  