-- EU Wields Fines to Save Euro From Greek-Style Fiscal Mishaps
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2010-09-29T15:18:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/eu-wields-fines-to-save-euro-area-nations-from-greek-style-fiscal-mishaps.html
Euro countries would face financial
penalties for overstepping budgetary limits or for running non-
competitive economies under proposals to prevent an escalation
of the debt crisis.  Users of the 16-nation currency would be fined as much as
0.2 percent of gross domestic product for flouting fiscal
targets and as much as 0.1 percent of GDP for failing to keep up
with Europe’s strongest economies, under draft legislation
unveiled today in Brussels.  Building on existing sanctions that were never imposed, the
European Commission proposals in response to the  Greece-led debt
shock  lean toward German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  in her effort
to tighten the fiscal screws on free-spending governments and
have already fueled qualms in France.  “We will pull the handbrake before the car rolls down the
hill,”  Jose Barroso , the commission’s president, told
reporters.  As more than 100,000 demonstrators converged on Brussels to
protest Europe-wide austerity measures, the commission, the
European Union’s executive, billed the crackdown on deficit
spending as “the most comprehensive reinforcement of economic
governance” since the euro’s debut in 1999.  With soaring bond yields in Ireland and Portugal looming as
the euro’s next threat, the proposals are meant to fix an
 economic-management system  that failed to prevent Greece from
skidding toward default, forcing European governments to offer
860 billion euros ($1.2 trillion) in loans and pledges in May to
keep the currency union intact.  Euro’s Rebound  The euro has rallied after reaching a four-year low of
$1.1876 on June 7. It traded at $1.3591 at 5 p.m. Brussels time.
The euro is 17 percent overvalued, according to a Bloomberg
index of the relative buying power of world currencies.  The new system toughens and speeds up a series of fines on
governments that head over the euro deficit limit of 3 percent
of GDP and debt limit of 60 percent.  Penalties starting with interest-bearing deposits could be
imposed before a country bursts over the limit, with the money
confiscated if it balks at repeated EU demands to fix the
budget. For Greece, which snuck into the euro region without
ever meeting the deficit standard and obtained 110 billion euros
of the rescue funds, the fine would go as high as 475 million
euros.  Debt Penalties  Countries over the debt limit would be ordered to hit an
annual reduction target equal to 1/20th of the excess. A country
with debt at 100 percent, for example, would need to cut it by 2
percentage points each year.  Initially, the penalties will be limited to countries using
the euro. The commission is working on plans to draft rules as
of 2014 to non-euro countries such as the U.K., foreseeing cuts
in EU subsidies for their fiscal overruns.  Alessandro Leipold , a former International Monetary Fund
official, said the emphasis on Brussels-driven sanctions is
misguided and urged the EU to do more to embed sound budget
practices at the national level.  “If the most severe crisis since the Great Depression and
a euro country having to turn the IMF doesn’t focus the minds
for something a bit more ambitious, then one has to wonder what
will,” said Leipold, who advises the Brussels-based  Lisbon
Council  think tank.  The six-law package requires approval by European
governments and the  European Parliament . The commission hopes it
will take effect by mid-2011, with the first sanctions possible
in 2012.  Vote Wrangling  France is among three or four countries that oppose plans
for the commission to lay down the sanctions automatically
unless blocked by a “qualified majority” in which bigger
countries have more votes, an EU official told reporters
yesterday.  French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  on Sept. 27 urged
a simpler one-country, one-vote system that would lessen the
influence of Germany, the country pushing hardest for tougher
rules.  France put out its 2011 budget outline today, pledging to
shrink the deficit to 6 percent of GDP from an estimated 7.7
percent this year, the fifth-highest in the euro region.  Germany played down the conflict over the voting system. In
an interview in Berlin yesterday, Deputy Finance Minister
 Steffen Kampeter  said that “sometimes Germany and France start
from different starting points, but we in the end are on common
ground.”  Competition Concerns  Beyond stiffening existing rules, the EU’s main innovation
is to extend the threat of sanctions to countries prone to
“excessive” macroeconomic imbalances such as outsized current
account deficits, rapid wage growth or runaway property prices.  Those penalties would be imposed “asymmetrically” on
underperforming economies such as Portugal or Greece, while
exempting Germany, with its trade surpluses, a senior commission
official said yesterday.  While the commission would base its verdict on indicators
such as current account, unit labor costs, public and private
debt and estimates of real exchange rates, it said there is no
“mechanical way” to judge competitiveness.  Sony Kapoor, managing director of Re-Define, an economic
research institute, said the competitiveness standards will be
impossible to enforce because governments have limited power
over the behavior of millions of producers, consumers and
investors.  “The approach assumes levels of government control over
economic outcomes that probably did not even exist in the Soviet
Union, let alone modern market economies,” Kapoor said. “The
policy space available to governments in the euro zone to
influence economic outcomes is especially limited.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James G. Neuger  in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  