-- Euribor Futures Drop As ECB Lends Banks Less Than Some Analysts Estimated
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2010-09-29T13:48:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/euribor-futures-drop-as-ecb-lends-banks-less-than-some-analysts-estimated.html
Futures contracts on the euro
interbank offered rate, or Euribor, fell after banks demanded
less cash from the European Central Bank than some analysts
anticipated, suggesting the cost of borrowing may rise.  The ECB said it lent 104 billion euros ($141 billion) for
three months as some 225 billion euros of long-term loans
mature. That compares with 131.9 billion euros at the previous
longer-term refinancing operation, or LTRO, of similar-maturity
loans on June 30. The lower-than-expected allotment may reduce
the amount of excess liquidity in euro money markets, and may
lead to higher borrowing costs between banks.  Financial institutions have been wary of lending to each
other after Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis fueled concern that
some governments may struggle to refinance their debts. The ECB
is still lending banks as much cash as they need, although the
durations of the loans are shortening. Signs that banks are
becoming less reliant on ECB funding may suggest that interbank
interest rates may rise toward the ECB’s main refinancing rate,
currently a record low 1 percent.  “This is a sign that banks are becoming less dependent on
ECB funding,” said  Benjamin Schroeder , a fixed-income
strategist at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “The market will
speculate that Euribor yields will rise faster than before. The
probability that rates will rise has increased.” This suggests
“some normalization in money markets,” he said.  Expiry Tomorrow  The Euribor contract expiring in March 2011 fell 0.03 to
98.88 as of 1:44 p.m. in London, pushing the implied yield up 3
basis points to 1.12 percent.  Banks tomorrow need to repay 75 billion euros in 12-month
funds, 18 billion euros in six-month funds and 132 billion euros
in three-month loans. The 12- and six-month loans won’t be
renewed as the ECB phases out the non-standard measures used to
fight the financial crisis. Today’s three-month loan and a six-
day tender tomorrow are designed to help banks through the
transition period.  The ECB allotment is “noticeably below expectations and
not even matching the expiry of the existing three-month LTRO,”
 Christoph Rieger , head of fixed-income strategy at Commerzbank,
said in an e-mailed note. The lower volume “should add to the
upside” in short-dated interest rates, he said.  ‘Excess Liquidity’  “Considering that a total of 225 billion euros in three-
month, six-month and 1-year LTROs will expire tomorrow and
accounting for the net inflow of 13 billion in yesterday’s MRO,
today’s allotment gives us a net drain of some 108 billion euros
so far,” Rieger said. “This would erase just about all of the
excess liquidity in the system.”  The ECB allotted 166.4 billion euros in seven-day funds at
a fixed rate of 1 percent at its weekly refinancing operation
yesterday. That compared with 153.8 billion euros at the
previous auction on Sept. 21.  The Frankfurt-based central bank is scheduled to hold a
six-day fine-tuning operation, or FTO, tomorrow when 225 billion
euros worth of ECB loans expire.  “Today’s three-month LTRO would suggest a reduction in the
total borrowing or a shift into the six-day operation,”
 Giuseppe Maraffino , a fixed-income strategist at Barclays Plc in
London, wrote in an e-mailed report.  Short Rates  “Both situations would facilitate the ECB resuming its
exit strategy by allowing it to drop the full allotment over
time at the three-month LTRO,” Maraffino wrote. “This, as much
as the change in the liquidity surplus, is likely to push short
rates up.”  ECB Executive Board Member  Juergen Stark  said yesterday the
central bank is progressing with its exit from non-standard
policy measures.  “We are in the process of phasing out the non-standard
measures,” Stark said at a conference in Istanbul. “This week,
and in the fourth quarter of 2010, a number of non-standard
measures will mature. They will mature and will not be renewed.
What we are going to decide for the time after Dec. 31 is up to
one of the forthcoming meetings of the Governing Council.”  Three-month  Euribor  climbed to 0.886 percent today from
yesterday’s 0.88 percent, the European Banking Federation said.
That’s the highest since Sept. 1 and the largest single-day
increase since July 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  