-- Europe Looks to Ballesteros to Inspire Ryder Cup Win Over Woods and U.S.
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2010-09-29T16:54:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/europe-looks-to-ailing-ballesteros-to-inspire-ryder-cup-victory-over-woods.html
Colin Montgomerie  called on former
European Ryder Cup captain  Seve Ballesteros , who’s fighting
brain cancer, to inspire this year’s team as it attempts to win
the golf trophy back from the U.S.  The team talked to the Spaniard by telephone last night,
Montgomerie said in a press conference today. Ballesteros, who
led Europe to victory in 1997, is too ill to travel to the
tournament in Newport, Wales, Montgomerie said.  “It was very motivational, very passionate, and also very
sad, to hear him and to hear the way he is,” Montgomerie said.
“The passion is still very, very strong within Seve for us as a
team.”  The two sides meet in the 38th edition Oct. 1-3 at Celtic
Manor with the U.S. aiming to retain the trophy after defeating
Europe 16 1/2 to 11 1/2 two years ago. The Americans haven’t won
outside the U.S. since 1993.  “They’re going to have the support of the crowd, and that
can be a challenge,” U.S. team member Phil Mickelson told
journalists. “It has been a long time since the U.S. has won
over on foreign soil. This is my eighth Ryder Cup, and the U.S.
is yet to win when I’ve been on a team in Europe.”  Ballesteros, who also played in eight Ryder Cups, was
diagnosed with a tumor in October 2008 and has undergone surgery
and several rounds of chemotherapy. While none of the current
team has played with him in the competition, Montgomerie 
served under him.  Europe the Favorite  Montgomerie’s squad is a 4-7 favorite for the event at
Coral Racing Ltd., a U.K. bookmaker. That means a successful $7
bet brings in $4 and the original stake. The U.S. team is 15-8,
while a tie is 10-1.  Europe has won three of the last four meetings. Last month,
Montgomerie selected Ireland’s Padraig Harrington,  Luke Donald 
of England and Italy’s Edoardo Molinari as his extra picks. The
team already had Francesco Molinari, Englishmen  Lee Westwood ,
Ian Poulter and Ross Fisher, U.S. PGA Championship winner Martin
Kaymer of Germany, U.S. Open champion Graeme McDowell of
Northern Ireland, Rory McIlroy of Northern Ireland, Spain’s
Miguel Angel Jimenez and Sweden’s Peter Hanson.  The Americans countered with Mickelson, Hunter Mahan, Bubba
Watson, Jim Furyk, Steve Stricker, Dustin Johnson, Jeff Overton
and Matt Kuchar, who all qualified after the PGA Championship
last month. They’re joined by  Tiger Woods , Zach Johnson, Stewart
Cink and Rickie Fowler, the picks of U.S. captain Corey Pavin.  McIlroy Comments  European media have published comments about Woods from
McIlroy, who said he’d like to play the world’s top-ranked
golfer in the Ryder Cup. Woods is winless in 11 PGA Tour events
this season, and has struggled since details about his
relationships with several women came out after he crashed his
sports-utility vehicle into a fire hydrant outside his home in
November.  “After what’s happened in the last 18 months, he’s still a
fantastic guy and I’m sure he’ll get back to winning the way he
used to, but I suppose a little bit of that aura is gone,” the
Northern Irishman said this week.  Pavin said McIlroy may regret the comments.  “Other people have said things to Tiger in the past and
maybe regretted it,” he told reporters. “I think anything that
gets the players fired up is a positive thing for the player
getting fired up. I know Tiger is aware of the comment.”  Pavin and Montgomerie wouldn’t reveal their lineups, which
may match Woods and McIlroy on the first day of the event.  McDowell and Kaymer tried to break up the mood by teeing
off in the morning practice while wearing curly wigs to mimic
McIlroy’s unruly hair.  “Rory was quite upset with the comments made in the papers
about this Tiger situation,” Montgomerie said. “It was getting
out of hand, tabloid-wise. The caddies and the players with him
decided they’d get Rory on the first tee and make him feel part
of the team again. That was the right thing to do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Elser  in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 