-- European Union Starts Legal Proceedings Against France Over Roma Expulsion
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2010-09-29T13:08:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/european-union-starts-legal-proceedings-against-france-over-roma-expulsion.html
The European Union threatened a
lawsuit against France over the expulsion of gypsies, saying
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s government probably breached
EU rules on the free movement of citizens.  The European Commission started infringement proceedings
over France’s expulsion this year of more than 1,000 Roma, as
gypsies from Eastern Europe are known, back to Romania and
Bulgaria, both of which joined the EU in 2007. The French move
included the dismantling of gypsy camps.  “We have opened a procedure of infraction against
France,” Justice Commissioner  Viviane Reding  told French radio
today. “It’s a question of if there has been discrimination.”  The commission, the 27-nation EU’s regulatory arm, decided
to send the French government a letter of formal notice, the
first step in a process that could lead to a complaint at the
European court.  France will conduct “a detailed analysis of the
commission’s letter,” a spokeswoman for the French
Foreign Ministry said by telephone. “There have been a certain
number of misunderstandings between France and the commission,”
said the spokeswoman, who cannot be named according to ministry
ground rules.  President  Sarkozy ’s office “won’t publish any reaction”
to the commission’s move, spokesman Franck Louvrier said. Calls
to the Justice and Immigration ministries weren’t returned
immediately.  Ethnic Minority  France’s treatment of Roma, members of an ethnic minority
who are EU citizens, rose to the top of the European political
agenda in mid-September when Reding linked the policy to events
during the Second World War and EU government heads debated the
matter two days later at a Sept. 16 summit. The European
Parliament, the Catholic Church and newspapers including Le
Monde, the Financial Times and The New York Times have denounced
France’s policy.  EU law prohibits governments from targeting ethnic
minorities. European legislation does allow governments to expel
citizens from other EU countries after three months for reasons
of public order or should the people in question have
insufficient economic resources or pose a burden to the domestic
health-care system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Stearns  in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  