-- European Stocks Fall as H&M Misses Earnings Estimate; BP, Beiersdorf Climb
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2010-09-29T16:17:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/european-stocks-decline-as-h-m-sky-deutschland-drop-bp-rolls-royce-gain.html
European stocks  retreated after
disappointing results from Hennes & Mauritz AB added to concern
that economic growth is slowing as the region’s sovereign-debt
crisis continues.  H&M, Europe’s second-largest clothing retailer, sank 6.5
percent as the company said its gross margin narrowed. BP
limited declines, rising 3.9 percent after it was reported to be
working on a possible settlement following its oil spill in the
Gulf of Mexico. Beiersdorf AG surged 4 percent after Procter &
Gamble Co. expressed an interest in the company.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  declined 0.5 percent to 261.02
at the 4:30 p.m. close in London, trimming its quarterly gain to
7.3 percent. The Stoxx 600 has rallied 12 percent since its low
this year in May as investors speculated that the global economy
will avoid another recession even as Europe’s governments slash
spending and China moves to cool its growth. Still, the gauge
remains 4.1 percent below its April high for 2010.  “There are still too many risks in Europe and the region’s
debt crisis isn’t over,” said  Jens Finkbeiner , who oversees 150
million euros ($204.5 million) at F+m Financial GmbH in
Frankfurt. “We’re still getting some earnings missing estimates
and the news flow in general is not positive enough to really
convince the market and push it to the upside.”  European Confidence  Confidence in Europe’s economic outlook unexpectedly
improved in September as executives and consumers weathered
government budget cuts by countries struggling to convince
investors that they don’t need external aid.  In Italy, business confidence declined for the first time
in 18 months in September amid concern that the country’s
export-led recovery may lose momentum.  National benchmark indexes declined in 13 of the 18 western
European markets. France’s CAC 40 fell 0.7 percent, while
Germany’s DAX Index lost 0.5 percent. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index
slipped 0.2 percent.  H&M  slumped 6.5 percent to 242.30 kronor. A 23 percent
increase in third-quarter profit was below estimates because the
retailer’s gross margin narrowed. H&M said it increased
investment in improving the “customer offering,” without being
more specific.  The retailer may have spent more on production without
passing the full cost on to customers, said  Simon Irwin , an
analyst at Liberum Capital.  Vedanta Sinks  Vedanta Resources Plc , controlled by billionaire  Anil Agarwal , dropped 4.3 percent to 2,165 pence. The shares followed
a selloff in Sterlite Industries (India) Ltd. after a court
ordered the nation’s largest copper producer to shut its only
smelter for breaching environment standards.  Banco Popolare SC  fell 4.1 percent to 4.46 euros. The
Italian lender is considering a 2 billion-euro capital increase
or the sale of its Credito Bergamasco and Cassa di Risparmio di
Lucca, Pisa e Livorno units, MF reported, without saying where
it got the information. Fidentiis Equities SV SA, commenting in
a note on the possibility of a capital increase, said “the news
comes totally unexpected and would hurt the stock price.”  BP rose 3.9 percent to 421 pence after the Associated Press
reported that the oil company is discussing a possible
settlement with U.S. authorities. The report cited Louisiana
Republican  Steve Scalise .  Beiersdorf  surged 4 percent to 44.50 euros as Procter &
Gamble Chief Executive Officer  Bob McDonald  said that the
company’s Nivea skin cream is “a terrific global brand.”
Procter & Gamble is interested in acquiring Beiersdorf, though
the German company would “have to come to us,” McDonald said.  Rolls-Royce Jumps  Rolls-Royce Group Plc jumped 3.5 percent to 612 pence after
Morgan Stanley raised the stock to “overweight” from “equal
weight.”  ASML Holding NV  climbed 1.7 percent to 22.31 euros.
Hewlett-Packard Co., the world’s largest computer maker,
forecast earnings and sales for fiscal 2011 that exceeded
analysts’ estimates and said it’s considering internal and
external candidates for the vacant post of chief executive
officer.  Babcock International Group Plc  rallied 4.4 percent to
575.5 pence, the shares’ highest price in more than two months.
The company said it remains “confident” for the full year and
beyond after trading in the first half was in line with its
expectations, with an order book of about 12 billion pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julie Cruz  in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 