-- European Economic Confidence Unexpectedly Improves
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2010-09-29T10:23:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/european-confidence-unexpectedly-rises-as-executives-weather-budget-cuts.html
European confidence  in the economic
outlook unexpectedly improved this month as executives and
consumers weathered tougher government budget cuts by countries
struggling to convince investors that they won’t need external
aid.  An  index  of executive and consumer  sentiment  in the 16 euro
nations rose to 103.2, the highest since January 2008, from a
revised 102.3 in August, the  European Commission  in Brussels
said in an e-mailed statement today. That compares with
economists’ forecast for a decline to 101.3, based on the median
of 28 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Europe’s recovery may lose some momentum after surging
exports and a rebound in investment helped fuel the fastest
growth in four years in the  second quarter . While business
sentiment in Germany also unexpectedly rose this month, the
European Commission on Sept. 13 forecast a more “moderate”
expansion in the second half of the year as governments from
Ireland to Portugal step up spending cuts to push down deficits.  “We expect sentiment to top out in the period ahead and
then trend down into 2011,” said  Ken Wattret , an economist at
BNP Paribas in London. “Industrial sentiment in particular is
vulnerable to a correction.”  The euro rose as much as 0.2 percent against the dollar
after the report was published and traded at $1.3600 as of 11:19
a.m. in London. Bonds were little changed, with the yield on the
10-year German bund at 2.25 percent.  Debt Worries  A gauge of sentiment among manufacturers rose to minus 2 in
September from minus 3, while services confidence gained to 8
from 7. The index of  consumers’  confidence remained at minus 11,
while retailers’ grew more optimistic, with that measure rising
to minus 1 from minus 3.  The increase in confidence comes as fiscal concerns
continue to weigh on Irish and Portuguese bonds. The decline has
increased the extra yield investors charge to hold the 10-year
debt of those nations rather than German bunds. The  Irish yield
premium  was at 452 basis points today, compared with 353 a month
ago, while for  Portugal , it was at 431 basis points, up from
332.  Former European Central Bank Vice President  Lucas Papademos 
said in an interview in Brussels on Sept. 27 that he’s
“confident” governments will take the “appropriate actions”
to push down budget deficits and help restore investor
confidence. Uncertainty “is always a factor that tends to lead
to excessive reactions on markets,” he said.  ‘Alarmist’  “Market tensions will stiffen resolve and the adjustment
process will continue,”  Paul Mortimer-Lee , head of market
economics at BNP Paribas in London, said in a Sept. 27 report.
“In respect of spreads, the chronic problems and the risk of
external shocks are likely to lead to periodic tensions, though
we warn against becoming alarmist.”  Some data indicate the euro-area recovery is already
cooling. Growth in services and manufacturing industries slowed
this month, while in Germany, Europe’s largest economy,  investor
confidence  dropped to a 19-month low.  Pernod Ricard SA , the
maker of Chivas Regal whiskey and Absolut vodka based in Paris,
on Sept. 2 said it is seeing “persistent difficulties” in
Western Europe.  The commission’s gauges measuring manufacturers’ confidence
in their  export orders  and total order books both rose to minus
16 in September from minus 18 in August, today’s report showed.
An index of employment expectations increased to minus 4 from
minus 6. Among services executives, a gauge of demand
expectations for the next three months gained to 10 from 8.  Policy Measures  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said on Sept. 27 that
there is “continuing uncertainty” about the outlook. ECB
officials will hold their next policy meeting on Oct. 9 after
last month extending emergency measures for banks into 2011.
Signs that the global recovery is flagging has also prompted
reaction from the Federal Reserve, which said on Sept. 21 it’s
prepared to ease policy further if needed. In the U.K., Bank of
England official  Adam Posen  said yesterday that “further easing
should be undertaken.”  “We know the second half of the year is going to be worse
than the first half of the year because of the tailwinds to
growth from the fiscal stimulus” turning into austerity, New
York University Professor  Nouriel Roubini  said on Sept. 27.
“The main scenario is an anemic recovery.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simone Meier  in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  