-- Hevesi Said to Offer Deal to Plead Guilty in New York State Pension Probe
-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 2010-09-29T21:38:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/hevesi-said-to-offer-deal-to-plead-guilty-in-new-york-state-pension-probe.html
Former New York state Comptroller
 Alan G. Hevesi  told New York Attorney General  Andrew Cuomo ’s
office he is willing to plead guilty in connection with a probe
of corruption at the state pension fund, according to a person
familiar with the investigation.  Hevesi could admit to a felony as soon as next week that
would leave it up to a judge to decide on jail time, the person
said. Hevesi, whose deal is still being ironed out, agreed to
negotiate after being told by Cuomo’s office that if he did not
plead guilty he would be charged, said the person, who asked not
to be identified because the deal isn’t completed yet.  Cuomo, the Democratic candidate for governor, has been
investigating “pay to play” at the New York State Common
Retirement Fund for more than three years. Henry “Hank”
Morris, Hevesi’s former political consultant, is facing trial on
about 75 counts in connection with the corruption probe.  At least six people have pleaded guilty to criminal charges
in the probe, including the fund’s former chief investment
officer,  David Loglisci . Fifteen firms have settled and agreed
to adopt reforms that include limits on campaign contributions
to those who can assign investment business.  “There is no agreement between the Attorney General’s
office and  Alan Hevesi ,” Cuomo’s office said in an e-mailed
statement. “The office has an ongoing investigation.”  Cuomo Spokesman  Richard Bamberger , a spokesman for Cuomo, declined further
comment.  Bradley Simon , a lawyer for Hevesi, was not available for
comment, according to Tatjana Gall, a receptionist at his New
York law office.  The possible plea was first reported by The New York Times.  As sole trustee of the fund from 2003 to 2006, Hevesi, 69,
was the official responsible for investing its money. During
that time, Morris allegedly corrupted the investment process,
favoring those who made campaign contributions and paid
placement fees to favored middlemen, including himself.  Morris’s “group” participated in 19 separate alternative
investments generating $35 million in placement fees, with
Morris himself or entities he owned taking $19 million,
according to court papers.  Morris, who was indicted in 2009 in connection with the
probe, has pleaded not guilty. On Sept. 16, New York state
Supreme Court Justice  Lewis Bart Stone  urged him to resolve the
charges without a trial.  Guilty Plea  David Loglisci , chief investment officer of the state fund
under Hevesi, pleaded guilty March 10 to a violation of the
state’s general business for allowing Morris the power to choose
which money managers received alternative investments from the
pension fund.  Loglisci, who agreed to cooperate, said in court that he
was instructed by a senior official to get approval from Morris
before recommending or declining investment suggestions. He also
said he ceded authority over alternative investments at the
direction of senior officials.  Ellen N. Biben , a prosecutor in Cuomo’s office, declined to
comment at the time on the identity of the officials.  “The political motivations for investment selection were
chronic and institutionalized throughout the office, creating a
culture of corruption at the highest levels,” Loglisci said in
court.  Elliott B. Broidy , founder of Markstone Capital Partners,
pleaded guilty in December, saying he worked with high-ranking
officials at the comptroller’s office “to confer benefits upon
public servants for having violated their duties.”  Luxury Travel  Broidy said in that in seeking investments from the pension
fund, he made almost $1 million in payments for the benefit of
high-ranking officials, including luxury travel. On five
occasions from 2003 to 2006, he said, he traveled to Israel and
Italy with “high-ranking officials” of the comptroller’s
office.  “In connection with these trips, I paid at least $75,000
in travel expenses incurred by office of the New York state
comptroller officials, as well as the expenses of one official’s
adult children,” Broidy said.  Hevesi and his children took the trips, a person familiar
with the matter said at the time. It wasn’t clear whether Hevesi
knew Broidy financed the travel, the person said.  Ex-New York Liberal Party Chairman  Raymond B. Harding  also
pleaded guilty in the pension scandal. Harding admitted taking
$800,000 in placement fees in exchange for political favors.  Queens Professor  Before his 2002 election as state comptroller, Hevesi
served for eight years as New York City’s comptroller. He spent
22 years in the state Assembly, representing a district in the
borough of Queens while he was a professor of political science
at Queens College. He holds a doctorate in public law and
government from Columbia.  Hevesi was re-elected to a second term as comptroller in
November 2006 in the face of a finding by the state ethics
commission that he had violated the law.  The next month, he pleaded guilty to defrauding the
government and resigned from office. He admitted using state
employees as drivers and personal aides for his disabled wife.
His plea deal spared Hevesi any prison time.  Current state Comptroller  Thomas P. DiNapoli , who succeeded
Hevesi, has banned the use of placement agents or lobbyists in
investments with the fund, and banned contributions from those
who do business with the fund.  In all, about $5 billion of the New York state pension
fund’s $9.5 billion in alternative investments made in the 2003-
2007 period were tainted by kickbacks, according to the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, which also has been
investigating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Freifeld  in New York
at   kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net . 