-- Mexico Lender Su Casita, After Rating Cuts, May Restructure By Year End
-- B y   J e n s   E r i k   G o u l d   a n d   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2010-09-29T18:53:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/mexico-lender-su-casita-after-rating-cuts-may-restructure-by-year-end.html
Mexico’s Hipotecaria Su Casita SA,
the mortgage lender that had its credit rating cut three times
this year by Standard & Poor’s, may reach a restructuring deal
with creditors by the end of the year or the beginning of 2011,
the head of the country’s mortgage agency said.  The company is currently negotiating with creditors after a
deal to sell part of its assets to BBVA Bancomer SA fell
through, said  Javier Gavito , chief executive officer of Mexico
City-based Sociedad Hipotecaria Federal, the agency in charge of
developing Mexico’s mortgage market.  “They’re about to restructure the company with their
creditors,” Gavito said in an interview at an event in Mexico
City. “They have to reach a deal soon.”  Moody’s Investors Service on Sept. 13 downgraded the
mortgage-loan provider’s unsecured debt rating for the second
time this year to Caa2 from B2, and put the lender on review for
a possible further downgrade, saying the company only had enough
funds to cover existing debt through the middle of the first
quarter of next year.  S&P in July cut Su Casita’s long-term counterparty credit
rating to “CCC” from “B-” on a global scale and maintained a
negative outlook on the lender, saying its financial position
would “weaken further.”  Su Casita said Sept. 10 that it was evaluating “other
alternatives” after the deal with Bancomer didn’t go through.  Chief Executive Officer  Jose Manuel Agudo  said May 6 in an
interview that the lender was open to a merger, acquisition or
joint venture.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jens Erik Gould  at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net ;
 Andres R. Martinez  in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  