-- Falcone Loses Touch Borrowing From Funds Denying Investors Cash
-- B y   A n t h o n y   E f f i n g e r   a n d   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 2010-09-29T04:01:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/falcone-losing-touch-borrowing-from-funds-while-his-investors-denied-cash.html
Philip Falcone  left his hometown of
Chisholm in northern Minnesota’s rusting Iron Range in 1980 in
the passenger seat of a 12-year-old Mercury Cougar that cost
$150.  Neil Sheehy, from nearby International Falls, had offered
Falcone a ride to Harvard University, which had recruited both
of them to play hockey for the Crimson. The car stalled in front
of Falcone’s house, and Sheehy had to restart it on a hill while
Falcone’s mother and one of his sisters sobbed their goodbyes.  “It’ll be all right, Mrs. Falcone; it’ll be all right,”
Sheehy recalls telling Caroline Falcone as the car chugged to
life and headed east.  Phil was the youngest of nine children and had grown up
poor. His mother worked in a shirt factory, and his father never
made more than $14,000 a year as a superintendent at a local
utility.  Falcone rode to Cambridge, Massachusetts, with his feet on
the dashboard because Sheehy had packed a skate-sharpening
machine on the floor of the front seat, Bloomberg Markets
magazine reports in its November issue. Halfway there, the roof
liner came loose and showered the young men with fiberglass
insulation that stuck to them as they sweated in the late summer
heat.  Now, when he goes home to Minnesota, Falcone can fly in his
own jet, on which the linens are made by the luxury Italian
textile firm  Frette , according to a person who’s flown with him.
He and his wife, Lisa Maria, are renovating a 27-room mansion in
New York for which they paid $49 million and which was once
owned by  Bob Guccione , the publisher of Penthouse magazine.  The household includes a pet potbellied pig named Wilbur.  Big Mortgage Bet  Falcone, 48, is the founder of New York-based Harbinger
Capital Partners. In 2008, Harbinger was one of the world’s most
successful hedge funds, with assets of $26 billion. Falcone
succeeded by coaxing value out of stocks and bonds of struggling
companies. Beginning in late 2006, Falcone bet millions that
securities cobbled together from subprime mortgages would
collapse.  When they  did , in 2007, Harbinger made $11 billion, driving
a 116 percent return for its flagship, Harbinger Capital
Partners Fund.  Then, Falcone lost his touch. His funds, which had loaded
up on shares of iron-mining companies and power producers,
plunged as the economy slowed. The Capital Partners fund fell 50
percent from its peak in mid-2008 to the end of that year. It
rose again in 2009, placing 13th in Bloomberg Markets’ annual
hedge-fund ranking, with a 42 percent return. That, however,
only made up for 2008 losses.  Down to $9 Billion  Spooked investors asked for their money back. These days,
Falcone manages just $9 billion, a third of his boom-time pile.  Many hedge funds have had a lackluster 2010. The private
pools of cash -- raised from wealthy families, pensions and
endowments -- returned 1.45 percent on average in the first
eight months of 2010, according to  Hedge Fund Research Inc.  in
Chicago.  Mom-and-pop investors in the  Pimco Total Return Fund , the
world’s biggest bond fund, earned 8.7 percent in the same
period, including reinvested dividends.  Managers who are still in the game -- 2,900 hedge funds
closed from the beginning of 2008 to June 30 -- are paring risk.
Many are shunning investments in private companies, which have
proved hard to sell since the credit markets went into
convulsions two years ago.  Taking on Verizon  Falcone is trying to recover with his biggest bet ever.
He’s building a wireless network powered by satellites and cell
towers that will cover the entire U.S. and compete with AT&T
Inc.,  Verizon Communications Inc.  and billionaire  Craig McCaw ’s
 Clearwire Corp.  to deliver fast Internet service to smartphones.  Falcone says Harbinger has spent $2.9 billion on its
broadband company, LightSquared, which in turn plans to pay
Nokia Siemens Networks $7 billion to build and operate its
network over the next eight years.  “I’ve always been a believer in wireless,” Falcone says in
a rare interview at his office 30 stories above Park Avenue in
New York. He also acknowledges that his clients see LightSquared
as a giant gamble because it accounts for much of Harbinger’s
portfolio. “This has been a hot button for some of my investors,
the biggest issue for me in the last 12 months,” Falcone said in
mid-September.  Falcone’s is one of at least three big hedge funds that
have stumbled since their career-making wins in the mortgage
collapse. Paulson & Co., the $31 billion fund that earned $15
billion in 2007 betting against mortgages, was down 11 percent
this year as of August.  Pellegrini Downsizes  Founder  John Paulson ’s former top lieutenant,  Paolo Pellegrini , set up his own firm, PSQR LLC, in 2009. After
gaining 62 percent that year, he lost 11 percent in 2010 through
August and then decided to return money to outside investors and
just manage his own funds, according to a person briefed on the
decision.  “Just because a manager got the subprime trade right, it
doesn’t necessarily mean he’s a skilled manager,” says  Brad Balter , managing partner of Balter Capital Management LLC, a
Boston-based firm that invests in hedge funds for clients.
“There have been several funds that benefited from that bet in
2007 whose performance was mediocre before and continues to be
mediocre today.”  These days, Falcone is literally blasting his investors’
money into space. Late in 2010 or early in 2011, LightSquared
plans to launch its first communications satellite aboard a
Russian-built rocket fired from Kazakhstan. A second bird will
go up sometime after that, giving the company the ability to
provide mobile Internet access anywhere in the U.S.  Investor Lockup  The risk for Falcone is alienating investors who thought
they were putting money into a hedge fund that traded securities
that were easy to buy and sell, not one that locks up their
money in a private wireless company that could take years to
build and years longer to turn a profit.  “He’s changed the very focus of the fund,” says  Geoffrey Bobroff , president of Bobroff Consulting, an investment fund
consultant in East Greenwich, Rhode Island. “If you do that, you
need to afford people the opportunity to exit.”  Like many hedge-fund managers, Falcone declined to give
investors all of their money back in 2008 because he would have
had to sell assets at bargain-basement prices, if he could sell
them at all. Those clients are still waiting for more than 90
percent of the money he withheld, they say.  Taste for the Offbeat  Falcone has always had a taste for offbeat investments. His
portfolio includes a 49 percent stake in African Medical
Investments Plc, a London-based startup company that operates
clinics for middle-class Africans and expatriates across the
continent. Harbinger is also an investor in a casino in Vietnam.  The Falcones are hedge-fund celebrities in New York,
covered in gossip pages and photographed at charity dinners,
where Lisa turns up in diaphanous gowns and short skirts,
usually with a different bejeweled cross around her neck for
each event.  Phil shook up the city in 2008 when he became the biggest
shareholder of New York Times Co. and tried to wrest strategic
changes from the controlling Sulzberger clan.  Tabloids pounced when the Falcones’ former butler, a gay
man, alleged in a lawsuit that Lisa sexually harassed him. She
denies it.  This year, Lisa produced  “Mother and Child,”  a film that
stars  Annette Bening  and  Naomi Watts  and that deals with
adoption issues.  Make or Break  The wireless play could save or break Falcone and his
dwindling fund. Falcone started 2009 with just $6.5 billion, an
investor says, after losses and the return of billions of
dollars to anxious clients. Falcone has at least $800 million of
his own money in the Capital Partners fund, according to
investors.  In 2009, he borrowed $113 million from his Special
Situations Fund to pay his personal taxes, a move that could
invite scrutiny from the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
because the fund wasn’t allowing investors to take money out at
the time, says Bobroff, a former SEC attorney.  “Regulators would love to jump on that,” he says.  Falcone says the loan was proper. “That’s been disclosed
and discussed with investors,” he says.  Falcone is going all in on wireless. LightSquared and other
telecommunications investments account for about 90 percent of
net assets in the Capital Partners fund and more than 50 percent
of the Special Situations Fund, which together hold about $5.5
billion, according to investors.  Rapid Build-out  Falcone declined to confirm the numbers.  Harbinger has to move fast. The Federal Communications
Commission is requiring LightSquared to build out a network that
can serve 100 million people by Dec. 31, 2012. If it doesn’t,
the FCC can nullify LightSquared’s licenses for the radio
frequencies it needs to operate.  Building a network will cost about $5 billion, says Credit
Suisse Group AG telecom analyst  Jonathan Chaplin . Falcone will
have to cover another $3 billion in losses while he hustles for
customers, Chaplin says. “It’s going to take a lot of capital to
get it built, and I’m not sure the capital is available,” he
says.  Falcone secured a piece of what LightSquared needs in
September, getting a $750 million, four-year loan from  UBS AG ,
according to two people familiar with the matter.  Option to Sell  One option for Falcone is to sell his licenses now and
forget the fuss of building a network, Chaplin says. Harbinger
got the licenses when it completed its purchase of a money-
losing satellite company called  SkyTerra Communications Inc.  in
March.  The licenses are probably worth $9 billion today, according
to Chaplin. They cost Falcone about $4 billion, including leases
on wireless frequencies he signed to complement SkyTerra’s,
Chaplin says. Any transaction would need approval from the FCC.  Investors will have to wait longer, perhaps for an initial
public offering, if Falcone keeps building. McCaw’s Kirkland,
Washington-based Clearwire, which sold shares to the public in
April 2007, has a  market value  of $7.3 billion.  Whether he builds a telecom system or sells his spectrum,
Falcone needs a winner. His $3.4 billion Capital Partners fund
is struggling. In 2008, it lost billions making bullish bets on
iron-ore producers, including Perth, Australia-based  Fortescue
Metals Group Ltd. , whose stock was down 74 percent for that
year. Harbinger lost still more investing in Houston-based power
company  Calpine Corp. , whose shares fell 56 percent in 2008.  Up and Down  Harbinger recouped those losses in 2009, when Calpine,
Fortescue and other stocks rebounded. This year, Falcone is down
again. As of the end of August, Harbinger’s flagship fund had
lost 16 percent, partly because of a plunge in the stock of
 TerreStar Corp. , another satellite communications company.  Harbinger owned 31 percent of TerreStar as of June 30; its
shares were down 49 percent for the year as of Sept. 28, to 48
cents. In August, the company warned in a regulatory filing that
it would have to declare bankruptcy if it couldn’t borrow more
money to operate a satellite that it launched in July 2009.  Investors have already lost patience. Falcone is
liquidating about 80 percent of his $2 billion Special
Situations Fund, which holds a chunk of the LightSquared
investment, at the request of clients, investors say. Falcone
has been trying since June to raise $1 billion to $1.5 billion
for LightSquared from investors who would be willing to commit
capital for several years, according to potential investors who
have seen the marketing documents.  Spectrum Shortage  That money would be used to buy some of the wireless bet
from his two hedge funds. As of mid-September, he had no takers.
Falcone declined to comment on the matter.  Falcone is betting that the boom in wireless data triggered
by  Apple Inc. ’s iPhone and  Google Inc. ’s Android operating
system for mobile phones will create a shortage of spectrum --
the radio frequencies needed to transmit phone calls, Web pages,
YouTube videos and Twitter updates over the air.  “Spectrum, by its nature, is a finite resource,” Falcone
says. “I’m a big believer in finite resources.”  The U.S. government leases rights to the frequencies. Data
traffic on  AT&T ’s network, where the iPhone operates, grew 5,000
percent in the three years after that device came out, the
Dallas-based company says.  Unlike AT&T and Verizon, LightSquared won’t run its own,
branded wireless service. It will sell space on the network at
wholesale prices to other carriers, retailers and media
companies.  Selling Wholesale  If Apple wanted to sell iPhones that run on an Apple-
branded network, for example, it could contract with
LightSquared for the capacity.  Investors who stick with Falcone must accept that he makes
big bets that don’t always work out. Falcone’s most public
blunder was paying an estimated $500 million for almost 20
percent of the New York Times’s publicly traded Class A shares.
The company is controlled by the family of Times publisher
 Arthur Ochs Sulzberger Jr . through their Class B shares, which
give them the right to appoint 9 of the 13  directors .  Falcone bought the stake in 2008, when he was fresh from
his mortgage killing and the newspaper’s  revenue  was falling as
advertisers migrated to the Internet. In January 2008, he
offered a slate of four new directors and urged the company to
sell extraneous assets, such as its stake in the Boston Red Sox
baseball team, and to use that money to build its online
business.  Times Incursion  Two of Falcone’s nominees won election to the board:  Scott Galloway , founder of Firebrand Partners, a consulting firm that
advised Falcone on the purchase, and  James Kohlberg , chairman of
Kohlberg & Co. and son of  Jerome Kohlberg , a founder of private-
equity giant KKR & Co.  Falcone hasn’t been able to turn around New York Times’s
slumping stock. Since Galloway and Kohlberg joined the board on
April 22, 2008, the company’s  shares have fallen  60 percent as
of Sept. 28, to $7.82. Falcone still owned 9 percent of the
Class A shares as of June 30. Kohlberg remains on the board;
Galloway left this year.  People who know Falcone say he’s a hard-working guy who
retains his Midwestern values.  “Phil is a product of his upbringing,” Galloway says. “He
has good manners. He’s not a chair thrower. I’ve never seen him
yell.”  When Harbinger was looking for office space a few years
ago, Falcone’s broker found a prime location on which another,
smaller hedge fund had put a deposit. The broker told Harbinger
it could certainly outbid them.  ‘Bad Karma’  “Phil’s words were, ‘That’s bad karma; I don’t want to push
out a smaller firm,’” Galloway says.  Family is important to Falcone, Galloway says. His twin
daughters come to lunch at his office, 10 blocks south of their
home, every Friday. Galloway says he once set up a meeting for
Falcone with a billionaire investor who was interested in
Harbinger. Falcone said he couldn’t make the meeting because he
had to go see his mother.  Falcone was wide-eyed when he arrived at Harvard in 1980,
says hockey teammate Greg Olson, who’s now a dentist in
Minnetonka, Minnesota.  “He was a deer in the headlights,” Olson says.  After recovering from the initial shock, Falcone made
himself something of a campus don. Hockey teammates called him
“Fashion Phil” because he cared so much about his clothes, Olson
says. He had a blue, three-piece suit that he wore often, and he
always wore stylish shoes.  Hockey Intensity  The center on the hockey team, Falcone practiced hard and
studied hard.  “He took a lot of ribbing because of his intensity,” says
teammate Brad Karp, a former energy executive in Santa Fe, New
Mexico.  In his freshman year, Falcone won the George Percy award,
given to first-year players for enthusiasm and sportsmanship.
Harvard went to the NCAA championships in 1983, Falcone’s junior
year. The team lost to Wisconsin, 6-2.  After graduating with a B.A. in economics, Falcone played
hockey for a professional team in Malmo, Sweden, for a year. He
quit when he injured his leg. He returned to the U.S. and went
to work for investment bank Kidder, Peabody & Co. in New York,
where he traded high-yield debt for about five years.  In 1990, Falcone and Edward Garden, a friend from Harvard,
pooled their money, got some loans and bought AAB Manufacturing
Corp., a struggling Newark, New Jersey-based maker of brushes
and combs. Then a drugstore chain that was one of AAB’s biggest
customers went bankrupt, taking the combmaker’s receivables with
it.  Going Broke  In congressional  testimony  on hedge funds’ role in the
financial crisis, Falcone said he was so broke he couldn’t pay
his electric bill.  Falcone returned to Wall Street, trading distressed debt
for several firms, including  Barclays Plc.   In 2001, Harbert Management Corp., a Birmingham, Alabama-
based money management company, was looking for someone to start
a fund to trade distressed debt and came across a PowerPoint
presentation from Falcone. Harbert hired him to start what
became Harbinger, staking him with $25 million.  Falcone was a valuable commodity. Harbinger returned 18.7
percent a year on average over the next five and a half years
compared with 15 percent for competing distressed-asset funds.  Buying Insurance  In 2006, he put on the trade that would make his name. Like
Paulson and other mortgage mega-bears, he bought credit-default
swaps, contracts that rose in value as the price of interest-
paying securities constructed from individual home mortgages
lost value. Also like Paulson, Falcone bought many of the swaps
from a salesman named  Greg Lippmann  at Deutsche Bank AG,
according to a person familiar with the purchases.  When the housing market collapsed in 2007 and defaults
soared, Falcone got rich.  Falcone’s wealth has made him and his wife, Lisa, highly
visible newcomers to big-time philanthropy. Lisa rattled the
titans of charity in June 2009 at a party for donors to the High
Line, a new park in Manhattan built atop a disused elevated
railway. In the middle of a speech by  High Line  founder Joshua
David, Lisa, clad in a gray, shimmery minidress tied at the
waist with a white bow, strode to the front of the crowd, asked
for the microphone and said she would match a $10 million gift
to the High Line that had just been announced by  Barry Diller ,
chief executive officer of IAC/InterActiveCorp., and his wife,
fashion designer  Diane von Furstenberg .  Lisa Lawsuit  Lisa’s upbringing was even more hardscrabble than her
husband’s: She grew up in Spanish Harlem and was raised by a
single mother on welfare. She was working as a model when she
met Phil Falcone through mutual friends at a Manhattan
restaurant in the late 1980s. They were married in 1992.  Lisa is now the overseer of the Falcones’ properties, one
of which is a compound on the island of St. Barts in the
Caribbean that the Falcones bought for $39 million in 2008 --
the most expensive home purchase in the island’s history,
according to  Sotheby’s  International Realty, the listing agent.  William Gamble, the former manager of their homes, says in
a complaint filed in February in New York State Supreme Court
that Lisa sexually harassed him on a trip to St. Barts in March
2008. First, she told him to wear a smaller bathing suit to help
improve his tan, he says in the suit. Days later, she put her
hand down his pants while drunk and, when rebuffed, hit him with
her hand three times, leaving bruises on his abdomen, the suit
says.  Falcone Denial  The Falcones denied Gamble’s charges in a response filed in
court on April 20. “Plaintiff’s job performance during his
employment by the defendants was unsatisfactory,” the response
says.  Falcone bought the St. Barts house just before he got
clobbered by the credit crisis and the subsequent slowdown in
the economy. That’s when his Calpine bet, among others, went
south. Like other hedge funds, Harbinger had to fight its way
through the crisis, selling assets to limit losses and to return
money to anxious investors.  “People looked at us like an ATM,” Falcone says.  Harbinger wouldn’t let investors have all the money they
demanded from the flagship Capital Partners fund. He broke the
news in an e-mail around midday on Christmas Eve 2008, saying he
would limit redemptions to two-thirds of investors’ requests.  Falcone put 15 illiquid private-equity investments into a
segregated account called a side pocket, according to investors.
The holdings would be sold off over time, with investors getting
cash back as sales were made.  7 Percent Solution  As of late September, investors had received only 7 percent
of the money in the side pocket, they say.  Falcone declined to comment on the matter.  While denying clients, Falcone in October 2009 took a $113
million loan from the Special Situations Fund to pay his
personal taxes, according to investors who learned of the loan
in the fund’s 2009 financial statements. Investors say they
would have preferred having excess cash returned to them. The
fund allowed no redemptions after the 2008 bankruptcy of  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. , which was the fund’s broker and held its
assets.  Falcone’s funds are too narrowly focused for some
investors. Executives that manage a fund for  PNC Financial
Services Group Inc.  in Pittsburgh asked for the return of their
whole investment -- an unspecified amount -- from Harbinger
Capital during the fiscal year ended on March 31, according to a
regulatory filing. Harbinger “got caught up in concentrated,
illiquid situations in 2008,” managers of the PNC Long-Short
Master Fund LLC said in the filing.  New York Pulls Out  The New York State Common Retirement Fund is pulling its
entire $68 million investment in Harbinger. It asked for $27
million at the start of 2010 and the remaining $41 million in
mid-September, spokesman  Dennis Tompkins  says. He declined to
say why the fund decided to redeem.  Falcone, in an August 2009 investor conference call,
pledged to reduce the amount of stock and private-equity
investments in the Capital Partners fund to about 50 percent of
assets, moving more into bonds, according to investors who were
on the call. They say that didn’t happen.  Falcone declined to comment on the matter.  One investor is taking the big bets in stride.  Mark Yusko ,
chief investment officer at Morgan Creek Capital Management LLC
in Chapel Hill, North Carolina, says betting lots of money on a
few ventures isn’t necessarily bad.  ‘An Outstanding Investor’  “Concentration indicates passion and conviction,” Yusko
says. “I can manage around concentration because I don’t have
all my money with him. Philip is an outstanding investor. He has
the intestinal fortitude and patience to stick with an
investment.”  Falcone’s satellite play started out as the kind of
distressed-debt investment typical of Harbinger. The licenses
he’s using to build his network have been bouncing from one
owner to the next since 2000, when Motient Corp., a company that
sold package-tracking services to  United Parcel Service Inc. ,
set up a partnership with other investors called Mobile
Satellite Ventures LP (MSV) to try to build a network. It sold
part of its stake in the unit in October 2001 and then sought
bankruptcy protection.  Apollo Global Management LLC, the private-equity firm run
by  Leon Black , bought a piece of an Internet software company
called Rare Medium Group Inc. in 1999. Two years later, Rare
Medium bought into MSV. As the Internet boom went bust, Rare
Medium morphed into a satellite communications company, changing
its name to SkyTerra Communications in 2003 and going on to
accumulate a majority of MSV in May 2006.  Buying SkyTerra  Falcone started acquiring SkyTerra shares about the same
time, according to regulatory filings. He’s been on a telecom
bender ever since. He says buying wireless spectrum is a better
bet than buying media properties.  “Do you want to own the Lincoln Tunnel or the cars that go
through it?” he asks. “You want to own the road.”  In April 2008, Falcone paid Apollo $10 apiece for 16.4
million shares of SkyTerra. By the end of 2008, the shares had
dropped 86 percent, to $1.79. Harbinger bought the shares of
SkyTerra it didn’t already own in March of this year for another
$262.5 million.  Falcone renamed the Reston, Virginia-based company
LightSquared in July. He hired  Sanjiv Ahuja , former chief
executive officer of  France Telecom SA ’s Orange Group mobile
phone unit, to run it.  Satellite Play  In addition to Light­Squared and his stake in cash-strapped
TerreStar, Falcone bought a 28 percent stake in Inmarsat Plc, a
London-based competitor to SkyTerra that has 11 satellites
providing worldwide voice and data service.  Falcone wanted all of Inmarsat. He said in a July 2008
press release that Harbinger and  SkyTerra , then independent,
would team up and bid for the company after getting regulatory
approval. Global credit markets seized up months later, and
dealmaking halted. If Falcone bid, it wasn’t made public.  Controlling Inmarsat would make Falcone’s investment much
more valuable, says  Patrick Comack , an analyst at Zachary
Investment Research & Management LLC in Miami Beach, Florida.
Inmarsat controls wireless spectrum that’s interwoven with
LightSquared’s. Having broader swaths of spectrum means you can
send more information over the air. If LightSquared is to use
its spectrum for broadband Internet, it must be separated into
contiguous blocks, Comack says.  Dirty Spectrum  “They’ve got a huge amount of high-quality spectrum, but
the majority isn’t usable until they clean it up,” he says.  To solve that problem, LightSquared said in August that it
would pay Inmarsat $337.5 million over 18 months to modify its
network so the frequencies can be untangled.  The FCC originally set aside the SkyTerra spectrum strictly
for satellite use. The FCC encourages satellite systems because
they aren’t affected by hurricanes, earthquakes or other events
that can knock out cell towers. The downside of satellites is
that they don’t provide good connections in cities, where
buildings can block transmissions, and that all of the expense
is upfront: SkyTerra’s two satellites will cost $300 million
each to build and launch, Credit Suisse analyst Chaplin says.  The SkyTerra spectrum became more valuable in November
2004, when the FCC ruled that its satellite system could be
augmented with land-based cell towers, making it more attractive
to mobile phone users.  Falcone still must launch satellites in order to comply
with the FCC licenses. Lots of companies have tried to build
satellite networks and failed. One of the first, Teledesic LLC,
planned to dish up Internet service from space with 288
inexpensive satellites by 2002.  Wireless and Risk  It was backed by McCaw, Microsoft Corp. co-founder  Bill Gates  and, later, Saudi Arabian  Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal . The
backers halted funding, and the network never got built.  Falcone knows the risks. Yet he takes pride in never losing
his calm. “You tell me I need a heart transplant and then I’ll
get stressed out,” he says.  Galloway of Firebrand agrees that his friend keeps his
cool. “He doesn’t scare easily,” Galloway says. “He does a lot
of homework, makes a decision and doesn’t look back.”  Falcone better hope his investors don’t scare easily
either. The ride they’re on could be bumpier than Falcone’s
cross-country trip in that battered Mercury.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anthony Effinger  in Portland, Oregon, at 
 aeffinger@bloomberg.net .
 Katherine Burton  in New York at 
 burton@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill at 
 mserrill@bloomberg.net .
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 