-- Fed Presidents Far From Unanimous on Need for Further Easing
-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2010-09-29T19:34:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/fed-presidents-are-far-from-unanimous-on-need-for-further-monetary-easing.html
Regional Federal Reserve presidents
showed they’re far from unanimous on whether the central bank
should try to boost flagging U.S. growth with a second round of
unconventional monetary easing.  Policy makers have the tools to act and should respond
“vigorously, creatively, thoughtfully and persistently” to a
slow recovery, Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren  said in a New
York speech today. He spoke minutes after Philadelphia Fed
President  Charles Plosser  said in New Jersey that the central
bank would put its credibility at stake by taking actions such
as buying more securities that may fail to reduce unemployment.  The range of views shows that if Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
aims to restart Treasury purchases in November, as some
economists project, he may have to do so over the objections of
several central bank officials.  The Fed’s Open Market Committee said Sept. 21 that it’s
prepared to ease monetary policy if needed to support its
mandate to achieve stable prices and full employment. Inflation
measures are “somewhat below” levels the Fed panel judges
consistent with its mandate, the Fed statement said.  “My firm view is that it is important that policy makers
be open to implementing policies consistent with achieving full
employment, and an appropriate level of inflation, within a
reasonable time frame,” Rosengren said.  Plosser, by contrast, said that “it is difficult, in my
view, to see how additional asset purchases by the Fed, even if
they move  interest rates  on long-term bonds down by 10 or 20
basis points, will have much impact on the near-term outlook for
employment.”  Treasuries Decline  Treasuries dropped, pushing the yield on the 10-year note
higher for the first time in three days, as some investors bet
that discord among policy makers reduced the odds the Fed will
opt for additional asset purchases. The yield on the benchmark
10-year Treasury note rose 4 basis points, or 0.04 percentage
point, to 2.51 percent at 3:31 p.m. in New York.  “Because I see little gain at this point, and some costs,
I would prefer not to engage in further asset purchases at this
time,” Plosser said in Vineland, New Jersey. Plosser is a
voting member of the Fed panel in 2011, while Rosengren is a
voting member this year.  Two other speakers, Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart 
and  Narayana Kocherlakota  of the Minneapolis Fed, fell in
between views of their colleagues.  Lockhart said yesterday in Sewanee, Tennessee, that he
hadn’t made up his mind on easing policy, while Kocherlakota
said today in London that purchases may have a “more muted
effect” than the more than $1 trillion of buying through March.  Stronger Hand  Roberto Perli , director of policy research at International
Strategy & Investment Group in Washington, said disagreements
over the direction of policy strengthen Bernanke’s hand.  “There are members of the committee who are clearly
opposed to doing anything more and members who view doing
substantial purchases favorably,” he said. “That puts Bernanke
in the position to decide.”  Perli said Bernanke probably played a significant role in
including the word “mandate” three times in the Sept. 21
statement, indicating that the chairman sees the Fed at risk of
not fulfilling its obligations as specified by Congress.  Bernanke told economists gathered at Princeton University
on Sept. 24 that the economic recovery lacked “sufficient vigor
to significantly reduce the high level of unemployment.”  “He probably feels the right thing to do is to ease policy
further,” said Perli, who until July was a member of the Fed
Board’s Monetary Affairs Division staff. “The questions now are
whether the benefits are worth the costs and, if they are, what
is the best way to implement asset purchases.”  Fed officials next meet for two days on Nov. 2-3 when they
will also discuss their latest forecasts for inflation, growth
and unemployment for the next three years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;  Craig Torres  in Washington at 
1220.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  