-- FedEx Says `Tepid' U.S. Trails China, India as Shipping Revives
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2010-09-30T00:13:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/fedex-s-smith-very-bullish-on-2011-as-china-india-lead-shipping-demand.html
FedEx Corp. , the world’s biggest
cargo airline, said the U.S. economic recovery will lag behind
countries such as China, India and Brazil that are leading a
rebound in the  express-shipping industry .  China’s economy is expanding at an annual rate of 10
percent and Brazil is “like a rocket,” Chief Executive Officer
 Fred Smith  said yesterday in a presentation to investors at
FedEx headquarters in Memphis, Tennessee. The U.S. will remain
“pretty tepid,” Chief Financial Officer  Alan Graf  said.  The comments reflected the sluggishness of the U.S. economy
after the deepest recession since World War II. The Commerce
Department may say today that gross domestic product expanded at
an annual rate of 1.6 percent in the second quarter, the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “U.S. GDP is still growing, but not as fast as people
would like, or fast enough to make a dent in unemployment,”
Smith said in an interview after the investor meeting.  A graph of the U.S. recovery would resemble an
“asymmetrical W,” with a shallower rise following a steep
decline, he said. Smith said he was “very happy” to see
President  Barack Obama  suggest tax breaks for companies making
capital expenditures or buying software, because such moves can
help stimulate job creation.  FedEx isn’t counting on a strong domestic recovery in the
next 18 months to meet its targets, Graf told investors. The
driver is international express shipping, he said.  Long-Term Goals  That’s still enough to put FedEx “back on track” to reach
its long-term goals of  earnings -per-share  growth  of 10 percent
to 15 percent and operating profit margins of 10 percent or
more, Smith said.  “As we get into the second half of fiscal 2011 and roll
into 2012, we’re very bullish,” Smith told investors. The
company’s fiscal year ends in May.  Smith’s remarks built on his Sept. 16 comment that FedEx,
the second-largest U.S. package-shipping company, was seeing
signs of a “solid” holiday-shipping season. Retailers are
restocking after their inventory-to-sales ratio fell to 1.33 in
March and April, the lowest since comparable records began in
1992.  “The arrow in global shipping points up,” Smith said.
“FedEx Express is beating air cargo in general.”  As demand returns, FedEx will raise rates in its Express
unit by 3.9 percent starting Jan. 3, the same increase as this
year, according to a statement yesterday. The freight and less-
than-truckload units will increase rates by 6.9 percent in
November, FedEx said.  Shares Rise  FedEx  climbed $1.66, or 2 percent, to $86.37 yesterday in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The  shares  have
gained 3.5 percent this year. That trails the 16 percent advance
for  United Parcel Service Inc. , the biggest U.S. package
shipping company.  When asked by an analyst whether FedEx was interested in
buying the express business from Amsterdam-based  TNT NV , Smith
said: “We don’t feel in Europe that there is a competitive
danger or that it is essential for us to make an acquisition.”  CFO Graf said FedEx would rather invest in more  Boeing Co. 
777 widebody freighter jets for Asia, India, Brazil and Mexico
because the returns there will be “much higher” than in
Europe.  Smith, FedEx’s founder and the only CEO in the company’s
39-year history, said he will likely retire within five years
and that the board reviews succession plans annually to ensure
seamless continuity.  Those preparations include being ready to make a decision
on an emergency basis, said Smith, 66, who declined to elaborate
on who would succeed him. Any one of the company’s  unit heads 
could step in and capably take over, he said.  Smith said he is in “very good health” and plays tennis
regularly.  “Obviously, I am not going to do this forever,” he said
in the interview, sipping from a can of Sprite. “Is it a year?
Probably not. Is it three years? Might be. Is it five years?
Almost certainly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Jane Credeur  in Memphis, Tennessee, at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  