-- Fed `Policy Put' Lifts U.S. Stocks, Hurts Dollar: Chart of the Day
-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 2010-09-29T15:15:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/federal-reserve-policy-put-lifts-u-s-stocks-hurts-dollar-chart-of-day.html
Investors are buying the idea that
the Federal Reserve will revive the U.S. economy with a second
round of government-debt purchases, according to  Myles Zyblock ,
chief institutional strategist at RBC Capital Markets.  Rising share prices and inflation projections point to the
conclusion when combined with a declining dollar, Zyblock wrote
today in a report. Similar moves occurred the first time around,
showing “the power of a policy put option,” the report said.  The CHART OF THE DAY compares the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index and an implied inflation rate in the top panel. The latter
is based on the gap between yields on 10-year Treasury notes and
their inflation-indexed counterparts. The bottom panel shows the
Dollar Index, derived from the U.S. currency’s value against the
euro, the yen and four other currencies.  This month’s 9 percent gain in the  S&P 500  through
yesterday, setting up the index for its best September since
1939, occurred as the  rate differential  rose 0.27 percentage
point to 1.82 percent. The  Dollar Index  fell 5 percent.  Anticipation that the Fed will bring back so-called
quantitative easing again in November is widespread, Zyblock
wrote. The central bank’s first round of buying began in March
2009 and lasted seven months. Fed policy makers are ready to do
more to help the economy, they said in a statement after their
Sept. 21 meeting.  “A sharp reversal in the market seems probable if the Fed
fails to implement QE2 in November,” Zyblock wrote. Conversely,
a “share-price melt-up” is possible once a program is in place
and indicators of the economy’s prospects stop falling or turn
higher, he wrote.  (To save a copy of the chart, click here.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wilson in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  