-- Fernandez Debt Beats Ukraine by Most in Year on Recovery: Argentina Credit
-- B y   B e n   B a i n   a n d   D r e w   B e n s o n
-- 2010-09-29T16:48:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/fernandez-bonds-beat-fading-momentum-of-ukrainian-debt-argentina-credit.html
Argentine bonds are outperforming
Ukrainian securities this month by the most since October as the
South American nation’s defaulted debt restructuring and surging
exports help revive  economic growth .  Argentine dollar debt has  returned 7.8  percent since Aug.
31 as Standard & Poor’s raised the country’s credit rating on
Sept. 13, compared with a 0.5 percent loss for Ukraine’s bonds,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes. The last time
Argentine bonds beat Ukrainian notes was 11 months ago, when the
difference was 9.3 percentage points.  Argentina, whose securities yield more over U.S. Treasuries
than bonds from any major emerging-market country except for
Venezuela and Ecuador, is benefitting from central bank
forecasts that the economy will grow the most since 1992. The
 yield difference  between benchmark bonds from Argentina and
Ukraine narrowed to 128 basis points on Sept. 20, the smallest
gap since May, according to  JPMorgan’s EMBI+ index . BNP Paribas
Investment Partners predicts Argentine yields will fall below
Ukraine’s for the first time since February by year-end.  “On the fundamentals side Argentina is much more of a
stronger case nowadays than Ukraine,”  Sergio Trigo Paz , who
oversees $4 billion in emerging-market debt at BNP Paribas
Investment Partners, said in a phone interview from London.
“The economic data coming out of Argentina has been surprising
on the upside.”  Record Crop  South America’s second-biggest economy will expand as much
as 9.5 percent this year as farmers sell a record soybean crop
and car sales surge to the highest ever, the central bank
forecasts. Goldman Sachs Group Inc., boosted its 2010 growth
forecast to 9 percent and Morgan Stanley has lifted its
projection to 9.7 percent. The economy grew 0.9 percent last
year.  Ukraine’s gross domestic product will grow more than 4
percent after shrinking 15.1 percent in 2009 amid the global
recession, Deputy Economy Minister Iryna Kryuchkova said in Kiev
on Sept. 16.  “Latin America to a certain extent is surrounded by an
aura of large growth, very strong growth, and very strong
commodities exports, both of which are themes that are very
linked into the Argentine story,”  Enrique Alvarez , head of
Latin America fixed-income research at IDEAglobal in New York,
said in a phone interview. “Under that perspective it’s very
reasonable to assume that the spread probably will shrink over
time” between Argentina and Ukraine, he said.  Debt Swap  S&P boosted Argentina’s credit rating one level to B,
leaving it one step below the B+ ranking on the former Soviet
republic’s debt, after President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner 
restructured $12.9 billion of bonds left over from the country’s
2001 default in June. The S&P increase matched a similar move by
Fitch in July.  Ukraine and Argentine bonds are the third- and fourth-
highest-yielding in JPMorgan’s benchmark emerging-market index
after Venezuela and Ecuador.  Argentine dollar securities  yielded 683 basis points, or
6.83 percentage points, more than U.S. Treasuries yesterday
while Ukraine debt yielded 535 above Treasuries, according to
JPMorgan. The 148 basis-point difference between Argentine and
Ukraine debt is down from a 267 basis-point difference at the
end of August, marking the biggest monthly decline since
October.  The difference  had climbed to 244 at the end of July after
the International Monetary Fund approved a $15.2 billion loan
program for Ukraine, prompting S&P to raise its rating on July
29 to B+. The IMF agreed to an immediate $1.9 billion cash
delivery to allow the country to use $1 billion of the first
payment to help cover a budget deficit the government is seeking
to trim to 5.5 percent of GDP this year.  Ukraine ‘Catalysts’  While Ukraine had “catalysts” driving bond gains earlier
in the year, “everything in a way is fading,” said Trigo Paz,
who holds bonds from both countries. “Momentum is fading in
Ukraine. Momentum is accelerating in Argentina.”  Ukraine dollar debt has returned 29 percent this year,
topping the 20 percent gain on Argentine securities, according
to JPMorgan. Emerging-market bonds have returned 14 percent.  Alejandro Urbina , a Chicago-based emerging-market debt
portfolio manager at Silva Capital Management LLC, said
Argentine borrowing costs likely won’t fall below Ukrainian
yields soon as “there are a lot of questions outstanding” in
terms of Argentina’s financing situation.  Dart Lawsuit  The $12.9 billion restructuring may not have paved the way
for the country to sell bonds in international markets for the
first time since the default, he said. Creditors including
billionaire investor  Kenneth Dart  and New York-based Elliott
Management Corp. still hold about $4.5 billion of defaulted
securities and are suing the country in international courts.  “It’s still Argentina, they still defaulted,” said
Urbina, whose firm holds bonds from both Argentina and Ukraine.
“While they’ve dealt with the bondholders, there’s still the
possibility of some lingering legal risk for them if they were
to come to market again. Their financing picture is a little bit
more complicated than Ukraine’s.”  Fernandez said Sept. 24 that the government isn’t
interested in selling bonds at yields as low as 8 percent
because it is more “rational” to tap central bank reserves to
pay debt.  The  average yield  on Argentine dollar bonds dropped to a
two-year low of 9.81 percent yesterday from 11.53 percent at the
end of June, according to JPMorgan.  GDP Warrants  Warrants linked to Argentine economic growth fell 0.09 cent
yesterday to 11.76 cents, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The peso weakened 0.3 percent to 3.9725 per dollar,
its biggest one-day decline since June 1.  Five-year credit-default swaps tied to Argentine debt rose
four basis points to 750 yesterday. The swaps have dropped from
971 at the end of June. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face
value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a government or company fail to adhere to debt
agreements.  “People feel more comfortable” about Argentina, Trigo
Paz said. “It’s in stronger hands than it was previously.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Bain  in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net ;
 Drew Benson  in Buenos Aires at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  