-- FIFA Warns Clubs Against `Playing Chicken' With New Player-Trade Rules
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2010-09-29T13:00:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/fifa-warns-clubs-against-playing-chicken-with-new-player-trade-rules.html
Soccer teams may have to change
their habit of waiting until the last minute to buy and sell
players when the sport’s new international transfer mechanism
becomes mandatory in two days.  Governing body  FIFA ’s Internet-based system, which has been
tested for two years, takes effect Oct. 1. Penalties for non-
compliance will include cancellation of trades, fines and bans
from the transfer market.  Each federation has two transfer windows when players can
be traded. Often teams wait until the end of that period to push
for the hardest bargain.  “It’s no longer a good idea to play a game of chicken in
the transfer market,” Mark Goddard, general manager of the
matching system, said in a conference call today.  This year several clubs including Tottenham announced deals
several hours after the official close of the window. The north
London club signed Real Madrid midfielder Rafael van der Vaart
for 8 million pounds ($12.6 million) a day after a proposed move
to Bayern Munich for a higher fee fell through.  Under the new system, deals will be rigidly timed out if
they are not completed during the specified period. It covers
only international, not domestic, moves.  According to FIFA, about $2.5 billion is spent on transfers
globally, and such a movement of money around the world risks
attracting criminals looking to launder money. FIFA says it will
contact law-enforcement agencies such as Interpol if it detects
any suspicious activity.  Third-Party Clampdown  The system also tries to stop third-party speculators
profiting from player trades by ensuring money is transferred
only between clubs and not other companies or individuals.  Transfers like Manchester City’s $40 million capture of
 Carlos Tevez  in July 2009, which involved a fee to an agency
headed by U.K.-based Iranian businessman  Kia Joorabchian , have
since been banned by FIFA.  “If you want to cheat you will always find a way,” said
FIFA’s Legal Director Marco Villiger, warning that there will be
attempts to circumvent the rules.  “This is no silver bullet,” Goddard added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net ; 