-- First Civilian Terrorism Trial of Guantanamo Detainee Begins in New York
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2010-09-29T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/first-civilian-trial-of-guantanamo-detainee-to-start-with-jury-selection.html
Jury selection began today 
in the federal trial of  Ahmed Khalfan Ghailani , an alleged
al-Qaeda terrorist and the first Guantanamo Bay detainee to be
tried in a U.S. civilian court.  Ghailani faces 286 federal counts related to the Aug. 7,
1998, bombings of U.S. embassies in Tanzania and Kenya that
killed 224 people, including 12 Americans. He could face as long
as life in prison if convicted of the most serious charge of
conspiracy to kill U.S. nationals.  U.S. District Judge  Lewis Kaplan  in Manhattan rejected
motions by Ghailani’s lawyers to dismiss the charges based on
claims that he was denied a speedy trial. Kaplan also denied the
defendant’s request to dismiss the case based on claims that he
was subjected to so-called enhanced interrogation techniques,
which Ghailani called torture, at “black sites” operated by
the Central Intelligence Agency before being transferred to the
U.S. naval base at Guantanamo Bay in Cuba.  “The most important questions that hang over this case
have been whether the coercive interrogations at black sites and
the length of Ghailani’s detention at Guantanamo prevent him
from being prosecuted in federal court,” said  Daniel Richman , a
former federal prosecutor in New York who now teaches at
 Columbia Law School  in New York.  The Obama administration has been criticized by Republicans
for its plan to close the military prison in Guantanamo Bay and
try some of the terrorism suspects now held there in civilian
courts.  “If this case continues to verdict, it will be an
important milestone in the government’s reconciliation of the
Guantanamo detentions with the federal criminal justice
system,” Richman said in a phone interview.  U.S. Methods  Prospective jurors were asked in a questionnaire last week
about their views on the U.S. government’s methods for
responding to terrorism as well as their feelings about the
Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks on New York and Washington.  Kaplan said the trial could last as long as four months and
told lawyers he hopes opening arguments to the jury can be heard
Oct. 4. He also ruled that the panel of 12 jurors plus
alternates will be anonymous and partially sequestered. They
will be escorted to and from the federal courthouse in Lower
Manhattan each day, he said.  The judge presided over what was originally the case of 17
ex-KPMG LLP executives charged in the largest tax-shelter
prosecution in U.S. history. The government charged them with
selling shelters that cost the U.S. Treasury $2 billion. Kaplan
in July 2007 dismissed charges against 13 defendants saying
prosecutors violated their right to counsel.  The prosecution team is led by Assistant U.S. Attorney
 Michael Farbiarz , who this year handled the prosecution of 10
members of a Russian “Deep Cover” spy ring.  TNT, Oxygen Tanks  Ghailani, who pleaded not guilty in June 2009, is accused
of helping deliver bomb-making components, including TNT and
oxygen tanks, in a truck detonated outside the U.S. embassy in
Dar es Salaam in Tanzania. Almost simultaneously, another bomb
went off outside the U.S. embassy in Nairobi, Kenya.  The government alleges that Ghailani, along with co-
conspirator Shekh Ahmed Swedan, bought the truck that was used
to ferry explosives used in the Tanzania blast and altered the
vehicle to allow more room for bomb components.  He fled Africa with a senior al-Qaeda explosives trainer
and “remained an active participant in al-Qaeda,” the U.S.
said in court papers. He later admitted that he worked for
several top al-Qaeda terrorists and served as a cook and
bodyguard for  Osama bin Laden , prosecutors said.  Ghailani was indicted by a federal grand jury in New York
in December 1998.  CIA Detention  Ghailani, who was captured in Pakistan in July 2004, was
held and questioned by the CIA for more than two years, the U.S.
has said in court papers. In September 2006, he was transferred
to Guantanamo Bay by the Department of Defense. In June 2009,
the U.S. transferred him to federal court in New York for trial.  The defense team has sought to exclude the testimony of
Hussein Abebe, 46, a former miner from Tanzania, who said he
sold at least five crates of dynamite to Ghailani before the
1998 attacks.  Abebe, who hasn’t been prosecuted by the U.S. or Tanzania,
has been called a “giant” witness by prosecutors.  Ghailani’s lawyers, led by Peter Quijano and Steve Zissou,
argue Abebe’s testimony should be excluded because the
government learned of his involvement through a coercive
interrogation of Ghailani by the CIA and that Abebe was
pressured by the U.S. into cooperating.  Witness’s Inconsistencies  At a hearing two weeks ago, Kaplan said he was concerned
about inconsistencies in Abebe’s testimony about his detention
and questioning in August 2006 by U.S. and Tanzanian officials.  During questioning by prosecutors, Abebe said he had spoken
willingly with Tanzanian intelligence officers and agents with
the CIA and Federal Bureau of Investigation in August 2006.  The judge said at a pre-trial hearing yesterday that he may
not decide until after opening arguments whether the jury should
hear Abebe’s testimony.  The trial will likely include some of the same testimony as
the 2001 trial in which four co-conspirators were convicted.
During the seven-month trial, prosecutors showed the jury
documents culled from al-Qaeda from around the world. They
included records of shell corporations set up by bin Laden and a
receipt for a satellite telephone bought in New York that
prosecutors said was used by bin Laden.  The four convicted in the 2001 trial were Mohamed Rashed
Daoud al-’Owhali, Wadih el Hage, Mohamed Sadeek Odeh and Khalfan
Khamis Mohamed.  Al-Qaeda Defector  The government’s case against Ghailani is likely to include
the testimony of an al-Qaeda defector, Jamal Ahmed al-Fadl, a
former aide who testified in 2001 about the founding of al-Qaeda
and bin Laden’s efforts to drive the U.S. out of Africa and the
Middle East.  After the 1993 bombing of the World Trade Center in New
York, federal prosecutors secretly convened a grand jury to
investigate bin Laden and al-Qaeda. Bin Laden was secretly
indicted in 1996. Charges against bin Laden, Ghailani and others
weren’t made public until after the 1998 embassy attacks.  The case is U.S. v. Ghailani, 98-CR-1023, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 