-- First Indigenous Lower House Lawmaker Vows to Improve Community's Health
-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 2010-09-29T09:55:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/first-indigenous-lower-house-lawmaker-vows-to-improve-community-s-health.html
Australia’s first indigenous
lawmaker in the federal lower house said he will campaign to
boost health services to an Aboriginal population whose life
expectancy is 20 years shorter than other citizens.  Ken Wyatt , who made his first speech to the national
parliament in Canberra today wearing a kangaroo skin cloak, said
he would campaign for improved health services for indigenous
Australians, who make up about 2 percent of the 22 million
population.  “The No. 1 issue is increasing health funds by the
millions,” Wyatt, a 58-year-old lawmaker with the opposition
Liberal Party, said in an interview. “That means addressing
children’s health and the early onset of cardiovascular disease,
blood pressure, renal failure and kidney diseases.”  The Labor Party, which governs in minority with the support
of three independents and one Greens lawmaker, in March
announced a plan to take over health service funding from the
state authorities. States were asked to hand over a total of
A$50 billion ($48.5 billion) as part of the overhaul.  Wyatt was the eldest of 10 children. His mother was part of
Australia’s so-called “Stolen Generation” of indigenous
children taken from their families between 1910 and 1970 and
raised in church missions. Former Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd 
apologized to the Stolen Generation on his first day in
parliament as Labor leader in February 2008.  “I say thank you for the apology,” Wyatt, who woke as a
child at 4:30 a.m. to trap rabbits to feed his family, said
through tears during his parliament address. “I hope future
governments embrace new solutions solving problems.”  Kangaroo Cloak  Wyatt was last week given a kangaroo skin cloak, known as a
Boohka and denoting leadership, by Aboriginal elders in his home
state of Western Australia.  “That signifies that the indigenous community expects me
to advocate in this new parliament for their needs,” Wyatt said.
“That includes health, education and law.”  Aboriginal people populated Australia at least 50,000 years
before Europeans settled in 1788. There are about 455,028
indigenous Australians. They are three times more likely to
experience coronary problems such as heart disease than non-
indigenous Australians, and encounter cultural and financial
barriers to accessing health care, according to government
statistics.  The average life expectancy for indigenous Australians is
similar to that of people in developing countries, according to
an Australian Human Rights Commission report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gemma Daley  in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at   billaustin@bloomberg.net  