-- Fitch to Conduct Stress Test on Australia Home Loan Market
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2010-09-29T07:36:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/fitch-to-stress-test-australian-mortgage-market-amid-house-bubble-concerns.html
Fitch Ratings said it will conduct
stress tests on Australian mortgages as concerns mount that the
nation’s housing market may collapse.  The testing will examine the impact of various levels of
price declines on Fitch’s Australian residential mortgage-backed
securities portfolio, banks and mortgage insurers, the ratings
company said in a statement. The results of the testing will be
completed by the middle of the fourth quarter, it said.  “Over the last few months, Fitch has received numerous
enquiries as to the sustainability of Australian residential
property prices and the possible impacts of a correction,”  Ben McCarthy , managing director for Australia, said in the statement.
“While over the short-to-medium term, a downturn is not Fitch’s
central expectation, the agency is performing its stress test
exercise on ratings impact under the hypothesis of an imminent
housing market correction.”  Reports published since late July showing Australian home
price growth has slowed have led to concerns the housing market
is on the verge of collapse. Sales of newly built homes fell 2.6
percent in August from July, the Housing Industry Association
said today. Home values rose 20 percent in the year to March.  Scenarios  Fitch’s analysis will examine the impact of three scenarios
on dwelling prices: mild stress, with mortgage defaults of 2.5
percent, and a 20 percent drop in property prices; medium stress
with 6 percent mortgage defaults and 30 percent decline in
prices; and severe stress with 8 percent defaults and a 40
percent price decline.  While the 2.5 percent envisioned in the mild stress
scenario is higher than default rates over the past 50 years,
the level is tame compared with the numbers seen in the U.S.,
Fitch said.  Most major banks’ loan loss reserves and pre-provision
profits will be able to cover any fallout from even the worst-
case scenario, as long as the impact remains confined to
mortgages,  John Miles , Fitch head of financial institution
ratings for Australia and New Zealand said in the statement.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia, the nation’s biggest
mortgage lender, on Sept. 9 said it will see losses of only
A$740 million ($739 million), or 0.2 percent of its total book,
not including additional insured losses. The losses will stem
under a “high-stress” environment with interest rates at 14
percent, unemployment at 10 percent and property values down 30
percent, the bank said.  U.S. home repossessions by banks jumped 25 percent in
August from a year ago, the third record in five months, with
one in 381 households receiving a foreclosure filing, RealtyTrac
Inc. said on Sept. 16.  Home prices in the U.S. may continue falling for another
three years, as foreclosures contribute to a growing supply that
may add as many as 12 million homes to the market, Moody’s
Analytics Inc., Fannie Mae, Morgan Stanley and Barclays Plc
analysts said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nichola Saminather  in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  