-- Flaherty Said to Scale Back Planned Rise in Employment Insurance Premiums
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2010-09-29T21:57:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/flaherty-said-to-scale-back-planned-rise-in-employment-insurance-premiums.html
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  will scale back proposed increases to payroll taxes,
according to two people familiar with the decision.  Flaherty, who may make the announcement as early as
tomorrow, will raise employment insurance premiums by less than
the amount recommended by an independent panel that advises the
government, the people said.  “Well, we’re going to continue reviewing the subject,”
Flaherty told reporters today in Ottawa when asked if the
government planned to increase premiums. “I’ve had discussions,
as other ministers have had, with some of the major participants
in the economy and I would say stay tuned on that.”  Flaherty froze employment insurance premiums for two years
in his  2009 budget  as part of a C$47 billion stimulus package to
help the economy cope with the global recession. He had
announced plans to increase them in 2011 “in order to balance
the EI program over time,” according to the 2009 budget
documents.  The governing Conservatives created a panel in 2008, the
Canada Employment Insurance  Financing Board , to set premium
rates. That panel has recommended the government increase
premiums by C$0.15 for every C$100 of insurable earnings, the
maximum amount allowed, the people said. The rate was frozen at
C$1.73 per C$100 of insurable earnings in 2009 and 2010, which
the finance department projected would cost C$2.45 billion
($2.37 billion) in foregone revenue over two years.  Fiscal Plan  Flaherty’s most recent fiscal plan, released in March,
projected that revenue from employment insurance premiums would
increase 14 percent to C$20 billion in the fiscal year that
begins next March.  Chisholm Pothier , Flaherty’s director of communications,
declined to comment on the issue, when contacted by Bloomberg
News.  Opposition lawmakers have called for more help to prop up
the economy amid signs of a slowing recovery.  Flaherty today said Canada’s deficit in the fiscal year
that ended last March may exceed a prior estimate of C$53.8
billion because of payments to provinces that have adopted a new
harmonized sales tax. Flaherty has budgeted a deficit of C$49.2
billion for the current fiscal year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Theophilos Argitis  in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  