-- For-Profit College Students Take on Congress as Hearing Looms
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2010-09-29T18:58:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/for-profit-college-students-take-on-congress-as-hearing-looms-over-loans.html
At least 1,500 students from for-
profit colleges chanted in front of the U.S. Capitol in
Washington today to protest a proposed regulation that would
limit their access to government grants and loans.  The rally precedes a Senate hearing tomorrow that will
examine whether the schools misled students on their employment
prospects after graduation. Education Secretary  Arne Duncan  on
Sept. 24 delayed issuing the “gainful employment” rule to
early 2011 after receiving 91,000 comments, the most ever on an
education issue, according to department officials.  Duncan’s decision to postpone the regulation until after
the Nov. 2 election shows the industry’s pressure is having an
impact, said  Charles Gabriel , an analyst with Washington-based
Capital Alpha Partners LLC, which advises institutional
investors on government trends and regulation. The regulation
would require for-profit colleges to show their students get
well-paying jobs or lose access to federal funds.  “They’re punting until after the election,” Gabriel said
in a telephone interview. “If the election gives us a
Republican House and Senate, and that’s a very real possibility,
they may have to soften the rule and calibrate it in a way that
generates less controversy.”  Lobbying Expenditures  The Association of Private Sector Colleges and
Universities, an industry trade group based in Washington
formerly called the Career College Association, has spent more
than $280,000 on lobbying this year, compared with about
$200,000 for all of 2009, according to OpenSecrets.org, a
Washington-based watchdog group. For-profit colleges are tapping
the strength of their 3.2 million students, said  Harris Miller ,
president and chief executive officer of the industry trade
organization.  “These attacks have galvanized people who feel there are
millions of students out there working hard to get their
education,” Miller  said. “Every time someone makes fun of our
schools, you’re hurting our job prospects.”  The Education Department says the colleges leave many
students with onerous debt loads without increasing their
employability. Kathleen Bittel, an employee of Education
Management Corp., told Senator  Tom Harkin , chairman of the
Senate Education committee, that the company exaggerated claims
regarding students’ job placements and incomes after graduation,
according to a letter obtained by Bloomberg News.  Bittel is scheduled to testify before Harkin’s committee
tomorrow.  Not Swayed  Duncan said the gainful employment rule is still scheduled
to take effect by July 2012, and said he wasn’t influenced by
the lobbying effort.  “Washington has lobbyists. That’s how Washington works,”
Duncan said in an interview Sept. 24 in Washington. “Lobbyists
don’t sway me.”  While the postponement may lead to a softer rule, it may
also give the Education Department time to make sure the
regulations are sound enough to survive any challenge in the
courts, said  Jarrel Price , an analyst with Washington-based
Height Analytics LLC, which provides investment research on
regulated industries.  “The delay was initiated due to internal concerns at the
department,” Price said in a telephone interview. “It’s too
early to determine the amount of influence outside parties will
have during the delay.”  The agency can’t pull back from its agenda after having
gone this far, said  Barmak Nassirian , associate executive
director of the American Association of Collegiate Registrars &
Admissions Officers in Washington.  ‘No Payoff’  “Backing out will have no payoff,” he said in a telephone
interview. “They’ve taken a whack at the industry that the
industry will never forget.”  Corinthian Colleges Inc ., based in Santa Ana, California,
bought full-page ads in The Washington Post, New York Times, Los
Angeles Times, Chicago Tribune, San Francisco Chronicle, San
Jose Mercury News, Contra Costa Times, The Miami Herald, The
Atlanta Journal Constitution, The Dallas Morning News, The
Seattle Times and The Star-Ledger to protest the gainful
employment rule.  The company’s “My Career Counts” campaign says the
gainful employment rule would result in the loss of thousands of
U.S. jobs and as many as a million students would lose training
opportunities.  The students at the rally, many dressed in hospital scrubs
and cooks’ uniforms, chanted, “My education, my job, my
choice!”  Some of the students had begun making visits to
lawmakers’ offices throughout Washington to voice opposition to
the regulation.  An index of 12 for-profit colleges, including Apollo Group
Inc., the biggest of the companies by enrollment, has fallen 17
percent before today since July 23, when a draft of the gainful
employment proposal was released. The industry was also hurt by
a U.S. Government Accountability Office probe released Aug. 4
that recorded recruiters at campuses operated by Apollo,
Education Management Corp., and the Washington Post Co.’s Kaplan
education unit misleading investigators posing as applicants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Lauerman  in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net . 