-- Franc Drops Versus Euro As European Commission Studies Financial Penalties
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2010-09-29T10:57:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/franc-drops-versus-euro-as-european-commission-studies-financial-penalties.html
The franc fell versus the euro as
draft legislation was unveiled proposing financial penalties for
euro area countries that overstep budgetary limits or run non-
competitive economies, damping demand for the franc as a haven.  Users of the 16-nation currency would be fined as much as
0.2 percent of gross domestic product for flouting fiscal
targets and as much as 0.1 percent of GDP for failing to keep up
with Europe’s strongest economies, according to the proposals
from the European Commission. Switzerland’s leading economic
indicators also fell for a third month.  “The EU commission comments regarding the reinstatement of
a kind of stability pact has given the eurozone more security,”
said  Jeremy Stretch , executive director of foreign-exchange
strategy at CIBC World Markets in London. “This was initially
the trigger for the rally up in euro-Swiss.”  The franc weakened 0.5 percent against the euro to 1.3318
as of 11:25 a.m. in London, snapping two days of gains. It
depreciated 0.3 percent against the dollar to 97.82 centimes,
after earlier reaching 97.34 centimes, the strongest on record
according to Bloomberg data, surpassing the 97.38 level set
yesterday.  The  KOF research institute’s  monthly gauge that aims to
predict the Swiss economy’s direction about six months ahead
declined to 2.21 in September from a revised 2.22 in August,
adding to signs the country’s economic recovery may lose steam
in the second half of the year. The indicator rose to 2.24 in
June, the highest level in almost four years.  Investors traditionally buy the franc during times of
economic turmoil because of the perceived stability of
Switzerland’s economy and current account surplus, and offload
the currency when they want to take on more risk.  The franc has climbed 4.6 percent this year against a
basket of currencies, according to Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Currency Indexes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephen Morris  in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  