-- Galleon, United, UBS, Boeing, Pfizer in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n   a n d   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2010-09-29T12:12:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/galleon-united-ubs-boeing-pfizer-goodyear-in-court-news.html
The U.S. government rested its case
yesterday in a prosecution that may provide a preview of next
year’s trial of Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam,
accused of helping direct the largest-ever hedge fund insider
trading scam, Bloomberg News’ David Glovin reports.  The week-long trial of Joseph Contorinis, 46, a former
general partner of the  Jefferies Paragon Fund , has yielded
testimony by an ex- UBS AG  investment banker that he was fed
secret tips by a former managing director at Blackstone Group
LP, and that he leaked information on mergers to an analyst at
SAC Capital Advisors LP.  The trial, though unrelated to the Galleon case, may show
how Rajaratnam’s defense, that he traded based on public
information and press reports, will resonate with a federal jury
in Manhattan. Contorinis has made a similar argument in pleading
not guilty in his case, which is being prosecuted by Assistant
U.S. Attorneys Andrew Fish and Reed Brodsky -- both also
involved in  Galleon  case.  “It’s an opportunity for the defendants in Rajaratnam to
see how the defense plays before a jury,” Jacob Frenkel, a
former Securities and Exchange Commission attorney, said in an
interview. Frenkel, a partner at Shulman Rogers Gandal Pordy &
Ecker PA in Potomac, Maryland, isn’t involved in either case.  Contorinis, who lives in Brooklyn, is accused of earning
more than $7 million and avoiding losses of millions more by
trading on tips from the government’s chief witness, Nicos
Stephanou. An associate director of mergers and acquisitions at
Zurich-based UBS, Stephanou told him about transactions from
2004 to 2006, prosecutors said. The trial began Sept. 20.  Jim McCarthy, a spokesman for Rajaratnam, declined to
comment.  The case is U.S. v. Contorinis, 09-cr-1083, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Deep-Water Drilling Ban May End ‘Soon,’ U.S. Says  U.S. Interior Secretary Kenneth Salazar may lift the
federal ban on deep-water oil drilling “soon,” now that the
measure has met some of its goals, the government said in court
papers.  Salazar imposed new rules on offshore drilling in waters
deeper than 500 feet on July 12, after a New Orleans judge found
an earlier moratorium too broad. The rules set multiple
milestones to be reached before drilling may resume, said
attorney Ignacia S. Moreno, in a court filing last night.  “Several of these milestones have been met or are likely
to be reached in the coming days,” Moreno said in a request to
delay a hearing in a lawsuit challenging the ban. “The
secretary is likely to take action soon on whether and how he
will lift the current deepwater drilling suspension.”  President Barack Obama imposed the first six-month
moratorium on deep-water drilling on May 28 in reaction to the
BP Plc Gulf of Mexico oil spill, the worst in U.S. history. U.S.
District Judge Martin Feldman overturned that ban and is
considering a lawsuit challenging a second imposed in July.  The U.S. asked Feldman to postpone a hearing scheduled for
today over this second challenge, while allowing the government
to file a status report on regulators’ activities. The
milestones that have been met include containment and killing of
the BP well and completion of public hearings on the spill,
Moreno said.  Sean O’Neill, a spokesman for drilling contractor  Ensco
Offshore Co. , which sued to stop the second ban, didn’t return a
call yesterday seeking comment on the government’s request.  Additionally, a U.S. Justice Department official said that
no talks are under way with BP on settling criminal or civil
charges stemming from the oil spill.  The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because
of the department’s continuing inquiry into the spill, commented
after an Associated Press report cited Representative Steve
Scalise, a Louisiana Republican, as saying a possible settlement
was under discussion.  Scott Dean, a spokesman for London-based BP, declined to
comment. Stephen Bell, a spokesman for Scalise, said the
congressman was referring to the likely process of trying to
reach a settlement to avoid litigation, not actual talks.  “Any assumption that Congressman Scalise, or his staff,
has specific or detailed knowledge of negotiations between BP
and the Department of Justice is inaccurate,” Bell said in an
e-mailed statement.  The drilling ban case is Ensco Offshore Co. v. Salazar,
2:10-cv-01941, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Louisiana (New Orleans).  United, Continental Defeat Effort to Block Merger  UAL Corp. ’s merger with  Continental Airlines Inc.  won’t
create a monopoly and shouldn’t be blocked on antitrust grounds,
a federal judge ruled, helping to clear the way for the deal’s
completion.  U.S. District Judge Richard Seeborg in San Francisco said
Sept. 27 that the plaintiffs failed to argue adequately the
acquisition will substantially reduce competition in the airline
industry, and declined to enjoin the pact.  The plaintiffs’ “failure to establish a viable relevant
market dooms any effort to show this merger will substantially
lessen competition, thereby negating their ability to raise even
serious questions, let alone a likelihood of success on the
merits,” which is required for granting a preliminary
injunction, Seeborg wrote.  Shareholders of Houston-based Continental and Chicago-based
UAL on Sept. 17 approved the $3.22 billion all-stock merger that
was announced in May. The airlines received regulatory approval
from the Justice Department in July to merge, creating an
airline company surpassing  Delta Air Lines Inc.  as the world’s
biggest. The merger is expected to be completed by Oct. 1.  “Unfortunately and disappointingly, the court did not take
into account the Supreme Court decisions that would have
prevented and stopped the merger,” Joseph Alioto, an attorney
who filed the suit in June on behalf of consumers, said in a
phone interview yesterday.  The consumers claim the merger will increase fares, reduce
flights and eliminate jobs. The challenge “at least deserves a
trial on the merits,” Alioto, of San Francisco, said in a Sept.
17 court argument.  Alioto said yesterday he will appeal Seeborg’s ruling.  “We are gratified by the court’s decision to deny the
plaintiff’s motion,” Julie King, a spokeswoman for Continental,
said yesterday in an e-mail.  “We are pleased with the court’s decision, which is in
keeping with the review by the Department of Justice,” Jean
Medina, a spokeswoman for United, said yesterday by e-mail.  They said they expect the merger to close Oct. 1.  The case is Malaney v. UAL Corp., 10-02858, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).  For more, click here.  Racketeering Suit Against Blavatnik Fails on Appeal  Norex Petroleum Ltd. can’t use U.S. racketeering law to sue
billionaire Leonard Blavatnik and his Access Industries Holdings
LLC over the acquisition of an interest in a Russian oil
venture, a U.S. appeals court ruled.  Norex, a Cypriot company with an office in Calgary, claimed
that New York-based Access and other defendants deprived it of a
majority interest in Yugraneft Corp., a unit of  BP Plc’s  Russian
venture, through illegal means including the bribery of Russian
officials and corrupt Russian bankruptcy proceedings.  A lower court dismissed the case. A U.S. appeals court in
Manhattan yesterday upheld the dismissal, citing a June ruling
by the Supreme Court that limits the reach of civil claims for
acts occurring outside the country.  The “slim contacts” of the racketeering activity alleged
by Norex were “insufficient to support extraterritorial
application” of the law, the appeals panel wrote.  Norex, controlled by businessman Alex Rotzang, said in its
2002 suit that Access and other defendants sought to seize
control of the Russian oil producer. Other defendants included
London-based BP, Europe’s second-largest oil company.  The case is Norex Petroleum v. Access Industries, 02-cv-
1499, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  UBS Client Wins Court Appeal Against Transfer of Data to U.S.  Switzerland’s administrative court ruled that a client of
 UBS AG , the country’s biggest bank, has the right to fight a
decision to hand over his account details to U.S. tax
authorities.  The unidentified UBS client must be allowed to make his
case to Swiss tax authorities, the Bern, Switzerland-based court
said in a Sept. 21 ruling, which was published yesterday.  The ruling affects only a “single case” where the client
should have been allowed to see the evidence and be heard before
the authorities decided whether to share his data with the U.S.
 Internal Revenue Service , court spokesman Andrea Arcidiacono
said by telephone.  Switzerland 13 months ago agreed to examine and make
decisions on the handover to the IRS of data on as many as 4,450
UBS clients suspected of tax evasion. “Around half” the data
was transferred by the end of last month, according to Swiss tax
authorities, which expect to deliver most of the accounts by the
autumn. That prompted the IRS to say it will drop a lawsuit
against the bank within months.  For more, click here.  Amaranth Suit Certified as Class Action by U.S. Judge  Amaranth Advisors LLC, the hedge fund that collapsed in
2006 after losing $6.6 billion on energy trades, must face a
class-action lawsuit in which it’s accused of market
manipulation, a judge in New York ruled.  U.S. District Judge Shira A. Scheindlin said in a decision
made public yesterday that futures traders who bought, sold or
held gas futures or options on futures contracts from Feb. 16 to
Sept. 28 in 2006 can sue as a group.  “This case is best suited to proceed as a class action,”
Scheindlin said in the opinion. “It involves more than 1,000
potential claimants who are asserting claims based on common
issues.”  Amaranth failed after losing two-thirds of its assets on
natural-gas bets. According to the traders, Amaranth used its
market power to manipulate the prices of natural gas futures
contracts.  The hedge fund controlled more than half of the U.S.
natural gas market before it collapsed, according to a 2007 U.S.
Senate report.  “Judge Scheindlin made no decision on the merits of the
claims against Amaranth and we are confident that if, and when,
those merits are heard, the claims against Amaranth will be
rejected,” Steven M. Schwartz, a lawyer for Amaranth, said in
an e-mailed statement.  Schwartz said the chief economist of the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission determined that Amaranth didn’t cause the
changes in natural gas futures pricing in 2006. Amaranth is
considering an appeal of Scheindlin’s ruling, he said.  The case is In Re Amaranth Natural Gas Commodities
Litigation, 07-cv-06377, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  Qwest, KPN Sued Over 2002 Bankruptcy of KPNQwest, Unpaid Debts  Qwest Communications International Inc. ,  Royal KPN NV  and
12 executives were sued by KPNQwest NV’s administrators over the
company’s 2002 bankruptcy and 4.2 billion euros ($5.7 billion)
of unpaid debt.  The defendants must appear Jan. 19 in a district court in
the Dutch city of Haarlem, KPNQwest’s court appointed
administrators at law firm Houthoff Buruma said today in an e-
mailed statement. The administrators hold the companies and
executives responsible for the bankruptcy, they said.  “An investigation by the administrators shows that the
bankruptcy was caused by mismanagement and inadequate
supervision,” the administrators said.  KPNQwest, a joint venture of KPN and Qwest, was declared
bankrupt in 2002 after building a 60-city phone and Internet
network just before prices for telecommunications services
collapsed. The company, which served customers including AOL
Inc., Deutsche Telekom AG and Dell Inc. through Europe’s largest
fiber-optic network, had to sell the 25,000-kilometer system off
in pieces after failing to find a buyer for the whole business.  The company didn’t change strategy and tripled its
investments in the network, even though market prices had fallen
by as much as 80 percent by 1999, the year KPNQwest was founded,
the administrators said. Hoofddorp, Netherlands-based KPNQwest
sold shares to the public that year.  The Hague-based KPN, the largest Dutch phone company, is
reviewing the subpoena, said Stefan Simons, a spokesman for the
company, who declined to comment further. Calls before business
hours to Denver-based Qwest, the phone company being acquired by
Louisiana-based CenturyTel Inc., and to the court’s press office
weren’t immediately answered.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Scientists Can Get Stem-Cell Funding During Appeal, Court Says  Scientists who use embryonic stem cells for research can
continue to receive U.S. taxpayer funding while the government
challenges a lower-court order that barred federal support, an
 appeals court  said.  The ruling by the U.S. Court of Appeals in Washington
yesterday puts on hold an order cutting off funding by U.S.
District Judge Royce Lamberth. The government argued the ban
would cause irreparable harm to researchers, taxpayers, and
scientific progress while the case is appealed.  The government’s lawyers “have satisfied the standards
required for a stay pending appeal,” the judges wrote in a one-
page order that said the appeal will be expedited and that the
schedule for briefing and oral arguments will come out later.  Lifting the ban allows the government to temporarily
continue funding tens of millions of dollars to scientists
seeking cures for diseases such as Parkinson’s, spinal cord
injuries, and genetic conditions. Embryonic stem cells can grow
into any kind of tissue and may have the potential to accelerate
a range of research.  The decision, coming after oral arguments two days ago, was
made by Judith Rogers, appointed by former President Bill
Clinton, and Thomas Griffith and Brett Kavanaugh, both appointed
by former President George W. Bush.  Lamberth on Aug. 23 issued an order temporarily stopping
the Health and Human Services Department and the National
Institutes of Health from funding or conducting the studies. On
Sept. 7, Lamberth denied a U.S. request to reconsider his
ruling. The court of appeals then allowed funding to resume
pending yesterday’s decision.  The case is Sherley v. Sebelius, 10-5287, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia (Washington).  For more, click here.  Boeing, General Dynamics Get Hearing in A-12 Case  The  U.S. Supreme Court , accepting a case that will affect
government secrecy claims, agreed to review a ruling that could
force  Boeing Co.  and  General Dynamics Corp  to pay $3 billion in
a dispute over a canceled Navy aircraft contract.  The justices yesterday said they will intervene in a 19-
year-old legal dispute over the Pentagon’s 1991 termination of
the A-12 Avenger stealth fighter aircraft program. A federal
appeals court said the government was justified in canceling the
contract because the companies weren’t living up to their
obligations.  A victory for the companies could wipe out the government’s
demand for the return of $1.35 billion in payments, plus the
interest that has accrued over two decades. More broadly, the
case could affect the government’s use of the so-called state
secrets privilege, which Boeing and General Dynamics say
unfairly prevented them from mounting a defense in their case.  “By invoking the state-secrets privilege, the government
has not simply taken some evidence out of this case,” General
Dynamics argued in its appeal. “Rather, it has entirely
prevented the contractors from raising a critical defense.”  The cases are General Dynamics v. United States, 09-1298,
and Boeing v. United States, 09-1302.  For more, click here.  Drugmakers Win U.S. High Court Hearing in Bid to Stop Suits  The  U.S. Supreme Court  agreed to hear an appeal by
drugmakers seeking to block thousands of public hospitals and
community health clinics from suing for violations of a federal
program that lets them buy medicines at a discount.  The justices yesterday granted review to an appeal by
companies including units of  Pfizer Inc. ,  Merck & Co.  and
 Sanofi-Aventis SA . The companies are challenging a lower court
ruling permitting a suit against the drugmakers filed by the
California county of Santa Clara.  The dispute centers on the rights of 14,500 health
providers that collectively spend about $4 billion a year on
outpatient drugs. A 2006 government report found that those
providers overpaid by $3.9 million during one month.  A San Francisco-based federal appeals court said the
providers can sue to enforce a contract between the drugmakers
and the federal government. The companies said the federal law
governing the discount program doesn’t authorize private suits.  The case is Astra USA v. County of Santa Clara, 09-1273,
U.S. Supreme Court (Washington).  Suits Against Foreign Companies Draw U.S. Supreme Court Review  The  U.S. Supreme Court  agreed to use a case involving three
overseas units of  Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co.  to consider giving
foreign companies a stronger shield against legal claims filed
in American courts.  The justices yesterday said they will review a ruling that
required the Goodyear units to face a lawsuit filed by the
families of two North Carolina boys killed in a 2004 bus wreck
in France.  A North Carolina state appeals court said the units had
enough of a connection to the state to put them within the
jurisdiction of the courts there, even though the accident took
place elsewhere.  The case is Goodyear Luxembourg Tires v. Brown, 10-76, U.S.
Supreme Court (Washington).  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Ex-TFS Broker Fined, Banned in U.K. for AKO Kickbacks  A former TFS Derivatives Ltd. broker was banned from
working in the U.K. finance industry for paying kickbacks to a
former trader at hedge fund AKO Capital LLP who pleaded guilty
in June to insider-trading charges.  In addition to the ban, Fabio Massimo De Biase, the broker,
was also fined 252,239 pounds ($400,750) by the U.K. Financial
Services Authority for paying 131,000 pounds to Anjam Ahmad at
AKO in exchange for brokerage business between January 2008 and
September 2009, the regulator said yesterday in a  statement . The
men overcharged the hedge fund by $739,000 on commissions to
increase the amount of money they split, the FSA said.  “De Biase exploited the trust of his employer and his
client,” FSA head of enforcement Margaret Cole said. “This
substantial fine and the ban from working in the financial
services industry are significant penalties and should serve as
a reminder that such behavior is woefully short of that expected
of approved persons and will not be tolerated.”  Mark Duffell, a spokesman for De Biase’s lawyers at  Irwin
Mitchell , wasn’t available to comment. De Biase received a
reduction to his fine for agreeing to settle the case.  Ahmad was fined 287,000 pounds in June, 131,000 pounds of
which was for pushing trades to De Biase. In the insider dealing
case, Ahmad admitted to passing information on AKO’s block
trades to a co-conspirator who placed spread bets before the
hedge fund’s trades. AKO, where Ahmad worked until September
2009, hasn’t been accused of wrongdoing.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  India’s Bar Council Decides Not to Permit Overseas Law Firms  The Bar Council of India decided not to permit foreign
lawyers to practice in the country, the Ministry of Law &
Justice said in a statement on the Press Information Bureau
website yesterday.  “The decision is being subject to a more detailed and
rational scrutiny in the light of the opinions and points of
view of different stakeholders,” the statement said.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at   eamon2@bloomberg.net ;
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 