-- Geoghegan to Look Outside Banking as 37-Year HSBC Career Ends
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-09-29T05:18:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/geoghegan-to-look-outside-banking-as-37-year-hsbc-career-ends.html
Michael Geoghegan , who will step
down as chief executive officer of  HSBC Holdings Plc  at the end
of the year, is looking for a challenge of a different kind
after running Europe’s largest bank for the past four years.  “I’m fairly entrepreneurial, so you’ll probably find me
back into something, not in banking, but something else rather
entrepreneurial,” Geoghegan, 56, told reporters today in
Shanghai, where London-based HSBC’s board is meeting. Geoghegan
said he wouldn’t work for the government, and declined to
comment on whether he will join another company.  HSBC, Europe’s biggest bank, on Sept. 24 ended two-and-a-
half weeks of speculation about who would succeed  Stephen Green 
as chairman by replacing all three of its most senior executives.
Green, who quit on Sept. 7 to become U.K. trade minister, will
be replaced by finance director  Douglas Flint  after Geoghegan
struggled to attract investor support for the chairmanship.  Geoghegan, who failed to get the backing of any investor in
a Bloomberg survey of 20 HSBC  shareholders  last week, said today
it’s the right time for him to leave. The CEO increased his
executive powers in February when he moved to Hong Kong to
sharpen HSBC’s focus on Asia.  The bank has no plans to change its business mix and hasn’t
reached any decision on moving its headquarters, according to
incoming CEO  Stuart Gulliver .  The lender and rivals including Barclays Plc and Standard
Chartered Plc may be forced to move their headquarters out of
Britain if the government decides to break up the banks,
Gulliver said earlier this month. HSBC was founded in Hong Kong
and Shanghai in 1865.  Challenges  Shares of HSBC gained 1 percent to HK$81.15 at the 12:30
p.m. trading break in Hong Kong. The shares have dropped 9.2
percent this year.  Flint, who succeeds Green in early December, said today
that the need for a “huge amount of reforming regulatory
framework” and building emerging market franchises are the
major challenges facing the bank.  HSBC’s chairmen have been former CEOs for at least the past
33 years.  “Each time we do the right thing for our shareholders and
the management team,” Green said today referring to Geoghegan
not being promoted to the chairman role.  Geoghegan will be paid 1.42 million pounds ($2.25 million)
when he leaves and will be eligible for a bonus of as much as
4.2 million pounds for 2010, HSBC said last week. He will also
be a consultant for three months after his retirement.  -- Luo Jun . Editors:  Chitra Somayaji ,  Andreea Papuc   To contact Bloomberg News staff of this story:
Luo Jun in Shanghai at +8621-6104-7021 or
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  