-- Germany Seeks `Stability Culture' From Partners in Return for Euro Support
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n ,   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   P h i l l i p   E n c z
-- 2010-09-29T09:54:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/germany-seeks-stability-culture-from-partners-in-return-for-euro-support.html
Germany’s future commitment to
backstopping the euro depends on European Union support for
measures to allow the insolvency of debt-laden states, Deputy
Finance Minister  Steffen Kampeter  said.  “The Federal Republic has made it unmistakably clear that
while it is ready to assume great responsibility for the
stability of the euro, it expects that our partners show support
for a new stability culture in return,” Kampeter said in an
interview in Berlin yesterday.  Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government is stepping up its
calls for changes to EU treaties to penalize countries that fail
to cut their deficits. Those demands build on tougher sanctions
on excessive debt due to be announced in Brussels today, after
skeptics such as France were won over. Merkel has said tackling
debt “at its roots” is necessary to stem the crisis emanating
from Greece that drove the euro to a four-year low in June.  The “stress for our currency” isn’t over, and steps taken
to stabilize the euro, including a 440 billion-euro ($600
billion) European Financial Stability Facility, about 25 percent
of which was put up by Germany, only managed to calm markets for
a while, Kampeter said. Without treaty changes, “we’ll have far
bigger problems in the next phase of euro destabilization.”  Germany’s hardened stance on the management of the euro-
region’s $12 trillion economy comes as bond-yield premiums for
countries such as Ireland and Portugal surpass levels reached in
May, when EU leaders unveiled their $1 trillion rescue package
with the International Monetary Fund to blunt the European debt
crisis.  ‘Apolitical’ Sanctions  EU finance ministers are due to hold an informal meeting in
Brussels tomorrow to discuss sanctions, following a meeting two
days ago of a group charged with strengthening fiscal discipline
headed by EU President  Herman Van Rompuy .  Merkel’s government wants “faster and apolitical sanction
mechanisms” as well as an orderly state-insolvency procedure,
or what it terms “a crisis-resolution mechanism,” Kampeter
said. “Stabilization is only sustainable if we succeed in the
Van Rompuy group to achieve the necessary adjustments of the
EU’s primary and secondary legislation.”  Even so, it’s still “tough” for Germany to win support in
the Van Rompuy group, Kampeter said.  “The reactions to Germany’s proposals have been honest,
they reflect the differing interests of the individual national
governments,” Kampeter said “But all those involved realize
that they have to do more together in political and economic
terms for the long-term stability of the euro zone.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rainer Buergin  in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
 Brian Parkin  in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
 Philipp Encz  in Frankfurt at 
 philippencz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  