-- Giants Quadruple Price of Cheap Seats as Playoffs Drive Demand
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2010-09-29T05:19:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/giants-quadruple-price-of-cheap-seats-as-playoffs-drive-demand.html
As director of ticket sales
for the San Francisco Giants, Russ Stanley roots for his
team to win all its games. Almost.  Like his counterparts in Atlanta and San Diego,
Stanley says he wants his club to reach the Major League
Baseball playoffs that begin next week. They just want
their teams to qualify on the last possible day, allowing
the race for postseason spots to spur fan interest.  Close races for the National League West title and the
NL wild-card spot have pushed ticket sales higher. In San
Francisco, where the Giants adjust ticket prices a few
times a week, the playoff race has helped boost the price
of their lowest-cost seats by as much as 300 percent.  “I guess financially it is better to go all the way
down to the last game,” Stanley said in an interview at
the Giants’ AT&T Park. “Our hearts are in our stomachs,
we’re pacing watching these games.”  A seat in the left-field upper deck for the Oct. 1
night game between the San Diego Padres and the host Giants
cost $5 at the start of this season and $5.75 on Aug. 1.
That was before the Giants and Padres became locked in a
battle for the NL West title, with a showdown this weekend
in San Francisco. The Giants lead the Padres by two games
entering today’s games.  The same ticket now has a face value of $20.  A ticket in the Field Club behind home plate for that
game started the season at $68. It cost $92 on Aug. 1, $121
a week later, $145 on Sept. 4 and $175 now, Stanley said.  Dynamic Pricing  The Giants’ dynamic ticket pricing system allows
Stanley, the team’s managing vice president for ticket
sales and services, to adjust the tab daily. It rises or
falls based on supply and demand, which is determined by
weather, pitching matchups, day of the week -- and, of
course, the game’s potential playoff effect. The Giants are
the only team among the playoff contenders with dynamic
pricing.  Before the season, Stanley said, the Giants expected a
crowd of 30,000-35,000 for each of the three games this
weekend. The playoff race has helped increase demand to
about 42,000, the ballpark’s capacity.  “Sometimes you get lucky,” Stanley said. “Nine
times out of 10, the Padres on the last weekend of the
season is a bad thing. The Oct. 1 game started as one of
our lowest-demand games. Now it’s as hot as opening day.”  Stanley said dynamic pricing is providing a 7 percent
to 8 percent increase in revenue per seat over the course
of this season for the Giants. Major League Baseball had
revenue of $6.6 billion last year.  American League  The playoff teams already have been determined in the
American League. The Minnesota Twins are the Central
Division champions and the Texas Rangers won in the AL
West. The New York Yankees and Tampa Bay Rays, who are
battling for the AL East crown, captured the other two
postseason spots -- one will be division winner, the other
will get a wild card that goes to each league’s second-
place team with the best record.  The Rays (94-63) lead the Yankees (94-64) by a half-
game in the division race heading into tonight’s contests.  Neither the Yankees nor Rays experienced much of an
effect on ticket sales as they approached the playoffs. The
Yankees finished their home schedule with a major league-
leading average of 46,491 fans per game for a total season
attendance of 3.8 million. The Rays rank 22nd of the 30
major league teams, drawing an average of 22,850 fans
through 80 of 81 home games. There were 12,446 fans at the
Rays’ home game two days ago against Baltimore, and 17,891
at 36,973-seat Tropicana Field when they clinched a playoff
spot last night.  Reds and Phillies  In the National League, the Cincinnati Reds won the
Central title and the Philadelphia Phillies used an 11-game
winning streak to pull away from Atlanta and take the NL
East crown. Atlanta leads San Diego by 1 1/2 games in the
battle for the wild card.  The Phillies had tickets remaining at the end of
August for late-season games at Citizens Bank Park, which
seats 43,600 and can fit 1,500-2,000 fans in standing room.
They were tied with Atlanta for first place in the NL East
in mid-September before pulling away.  “Obviously, what the team has done in the last 20
games has catapulted it into another level,” John Weber,
the team’s vice president for sales and ticket operations,
said in a telephone interview. “The demand for tickets has
increased 10-fold. The demand outstrips the supply.” The
Phillies played their final home game on Sept. 26.  Atlanta Change  The Braves are approaching sales of 2.5 million, up
about 100,000 from 2009. The final weekend was a tough sell
last year for the team, which finished third in the NL
East.  “We’re doing very, very well in sales for the final
weekend this season,”  Derek Schiller , the team’s executive
vice president of sales and marketing, said in a phone
interview. The Braves finish the season at home against
Philadelphia.  The playoff races have been good for ticket resellers
as well. At StubHub, a ticket resale website owned by  EBay 
Inc., the volume of sales and the prices paid have
increased in cities with teams battling for playoff spots.  Spokesman  Glenn Lehrman  said the company gets a 15
percent commission from sellers and 10 percent from buyers,
based on the price paid to StubHub for the ticket.  Spotlight on Playoffs  Not including Yankees games, traditionally the biggest
sellers on  StubHub , eight of his company’s 10 biggest games
by volume in the last two weeks of the season have involved
teams fighting for a postseason spot, Lehrman said. Prices
paid for tickets to those games have steadily increased, he
said.  “We’re doing 50 percent of our business probably
within three days of an event,” he said in a telephone
interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Gloster  in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  