-- GIC Says Emerging Market Private Equity, Property Look Better Than Stocks
-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 2010-09-29T04:44:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/gic-says-emerging-market-private-equity-property-look-better-than-stocks.html
Government of Singapore Investment
Corp. , manager of more than $100 billion of reserves, said real
estate and private equity in emerging economies will present
more rewarding opportunities than equity markets.  “While publicly listed equities is likely to remain GIC’s
main implementation vehicle for our emerging market strategy,
our view is that the private markets such as real estate and
private equities will present even more rewarding
opportunities,” GIC’s Chief Investment Officer  Ng Kok Song  said
at a private wealth management conference in Singapore today.  GIC said in its annual report on Sept. 27 that it will
continue to boost investments in higher-growth emerging
economies, especially in Asia, as expansion in developed nations
slows. The fund aims to increase the proportion of investments
in public equities and private assets in emerging markets to the
“high teens” over time from 12 percent to 13 percent at the
end of March, Ng said after the event.  GIC,  ranked  the world’s sixth-largest state investment
company by Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute in California,
expects global gross domestic product growth to reach 3.8
percent this year, with advanced economies expanding 2.4 percent
and emerging Asia growing 8 percent, Ng said.  The fund sees Asia contributing half of global growth this
year, while accounting for 34 percent of total GDP. China is
expected to contribute 26 percent to global growth, he said.  “Since World War II, no other country except China has
changed the landscape of global growth that quickly,” Ng said.
“Without doubt, we are witnessing a shift in economic influence
of seismic proportions.”  Asia Growth  Growth in Asia is outpacing the rest of the world,
prompting policy makers to raise interest rates ahead of their
counterparts in the U.S. and Europe to fight inflation and curb
asset price bubbles.  The Asian Development Bank raised its 2010 growth forecast
for the region, excluding Japan, to 8.2 percent, from 7.5
percent, while maintaining its 2011 growth estimate at 7.3
percent, the Manila-based lender said in a report yesterday.  GIC has “a lot of capital” to invest in private assets,
most of which will be direct investments, Ng said. It will also
selectively put money into some private-equity and real-estate
funds, “if we feel that those funds can do something that we
cannot do ourselves,” Ng said.  While private markets tend to be “less liquid,” public
equities are “the well-trodden path of investors,” Ng said.  Still, valuations of public equities are not expensive,
given the level of earnings growth and interest rates in
emerging markets such as China and India, he said.  Citigroup, UBS  GIC plans to hold on to its stakes in Citigroup Inc. and
 UBS AG  because “the worst is over” for the banks, they have
returned to profitability, they have strong capital ratios and
will do well amid the changing regulatory environment, Ng said.  “Banks globally will undergo a period of uncertainty
because of the regulatory changes that are taking place,” he
said. “We expect that both banks will come out quite well.”  GIC bought its stakes in  Citigroup  and UBS in 2008 as the
collapse in the U.S. subprime-mortgage market in 2007 froze
credit markets and led to about $1.8 trillion in losses and
writedowns at financial institutions worldwide.  Historical Returns  GIC, established in 1981, said annual returns in the past
20 years averaged 7.1 percent in U.S. dollar terms, compared
with 5.7 percent in the previous fiscal year. The rate of return
in excess of global inflation rose to 3.8 percent from 2.6
percent. GIC didn’t give the value of its assets or how much
they rose or fell.  GIC’s holdings of developed market equities rose to 41
percent of its portfolio as of March 31 from 28 percent a year
earlier, according to its annual report.  The fund repurchased shares of companies in developed
markets starting in early 2009, after selling them from July
2007 to September 2008 because it was concerned about the
overvaluation of risk assets, according to the report.  Its allocation to alternative investments -- including real
estate, private equity, infrastructure and natural resources --
fell to 25 percent from 30 percent.  Investments in fixed income and cash fell to 24 percent
from 32 percent as funds were used for the purchase of equities,
according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Netty Ismail  in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  