-- Global Yield Hunt Fuels Record Issuance of Perpetual Bonds: Brazil Credit
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   V e r o n i c a   E s p i n o s a
-- 2010-09-29T19:39:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/global-yield-hunt-fuels-record-issuance-of-perpetual-bonds-brazil-credit.html
Brazilian companies from Braskem SA
to Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA are selling record amounts of
perpetual bonds amid investor demand for securities that pay
higher premiums than fixed-maturity debt.  Planned sales this week of the notes by Votorantim Cimentos
SA, South America’s largest cement maker, and property developer
BR Properties SA will lift this year’s total to $3.025 billion
from $2.3 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg going
back to 1999.  The lowest yields since 2008 on five-year U.S. Treasuries,
a benchmark for emerging-market companies, are prompting
investors to seek higher returns with perpetual bonds, which
allow companies to repay principal at their discretion. The
securities offer investors yields of about 140 basis points, or
1.4 percentage points, over Brazilian corporate debt that
matures in 10 years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “This is real money demand,” said  Vinicius Pasquarelli ,
an emerging-market debt trader in New York for Tradition Asiel
Securities Inc., a unit of Lausanne, Switzerland-based inter-
dealer broker Compagnie Financiere Tradition SA. Investors “are
going to buy and hold in a scenario where everything in Brazil
looks expensive because of the Treasury,” he said.  Yields on U.S. government bonds due in five years touched
1.22 percent yesterday, the lowest since Dec. 17, 2008, the day
after the Federal Reserve cut its target lending rate to zero to
0.25 percent. The Fed hinted last week it may purchase
additional U.S. debt in an effort to lower long-term interest
rates.  ‘Higher Carry’  Perpetual bonds sold by CSN, as Brazil’s third-largest
steelmaker is known, yield 138 basis points more than the
company’s debt due in 2020, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Braskem’s $450 million of 7.375 percent perpetual
bonds yield 127 basis points more than its notes due in 2020.
Perpetual bonds, which have no set maturity, typically have an
option to be called after the first five years.  “You do get a higher carry,” said  Luz Padilla , portfolio
manager of the DoubleLine Emerging Markets Fixed Income Fund in
Los Angeles. “And if we’re going to be in a lower interest-rate
environment for an extended period of time, this does give you
something that is attractive if it’s well priced.”  Perpetual bonds should pay about 150 basis points to 200
more than notes due in 10 years to compensate investors for the
risk that they won’t be called, according to  Eric Ollom , chief
emerging-markets strategist with Jefferies & Co. in New York.  Odebrecht  Four Brazilian companies have called $1.75 billion of
perpetual bonds this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Odebrecht SA, a construction company in Salvador,
Bahia, sold $500 million of perpetual bonds to yield 7.5 percent
Sept. 7. The company said Sept. 2 it plans to buy back its $200
million of 9.625 percent perpetual bonds in December.  The yield on CSN’s $1 billion of 7 percent bonds climbed
nine basis points to 7.11 percent, at 2:57 p.m. in New York,
according to Trace, the bond price-reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The yield is up 11
basis points from 7 percent when issued on Sept. 16.  The bonds sold by CSN, based in Rio de Janeiro, are
slumping because the yield doesn’t compensate investors for the
risk the company may not call the debt, Ollom said. Borrowers
will have less of an incentive to refinance the debt in five
years because it’s unlikely borrowing costs will be cheaper than
they are now, he said.  “To expect they’re going to be called at these low rates,
you have to make a lot of aggressive assumptions regarding the
market,” Ollom said.  Borrowing Costs  The extra  yield  investors demand to buy Brazilian corporate
debt rather than U.S. Treasuries widened three basis points
yesterday to 336, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s CEMBI
Broad index.  The yield difference on Brazilian government bonds over
Treasuries fell 10 basis points to 205 at 3:17 p.m. New York
time, according to JPMorgan.  The cost of protecting Brazilian debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps was unchanged at 114
yesterday, according to data compiled by data provider CMA.  That compares with a one basis-point drop on Mexico’s
credit-default swaps to 125, and to 164 on Russia’s sovereign
debt. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  The real rose 0.2 percent to 1.7042 per dollar, from 1.7079
yesterday.  Braskem  The yield on Brazilian interest-rate futures contracts due
in January 2012 fell 10 basis points to 11.49 percent.  Brazilian companies are refinancing a record amount of
perpetual bonds to lock in lower interest rates. Braskem, Latin
America’s largest petrochemical producer, cut as much as 2.38
percentage points of annual interest expense by redeeming its
outstanding perpetual securities, according to Bloomberg data.  “The current window allowed Braskem to obtain yield that’s
very similar to what investment-grade companies pay,” a Sao
Paulo-based Braskem spokeswoman who declined to be identified in
accordance with the company’s policy said in an e-mailed
statement.  Braskem  is rated  Ba1 by Moody’s Investors Service, one step
below investment quality, and an equivalent BB+ by Standard &
Poor’s and Fitch Ratings.  BR Properties , based in Vila Olimpia, Sao Paulo, plans to
sell $250 million of perpetual bonds that may yield about 9
percent, said a person familiar with the transaction who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set. The sale
would be the company’s first overseas, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Votorantim  Votorantim Cimentos, based in Sao Paulo, is marketing
perpetual bonds that can’t be called for the first five years,
according to people familiar with the matter who declined to be
identified because they’re not authorized to speak publicly.  Spokeswomen for Votorantim Cimentos and BR Properties
declined to comment.  “All issuers are considering doing that type of trade,”
said  Andre Silva , co-head of debt capital markets at Deutsche
Bank AG in New York. “It’s a combination of the good macro
position for issuers with rates being so low and also the
technical position with investors being hungry for yields and
having a lot of cash.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gabrielle Coppola  in New York at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
 Veronica Navarro Espinosa  in New York at 
 espinosa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  