-- Global Gold Hedges Gained Most in Four Years in Second Quarter, GFMS Says
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2010-09-29T22:59:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/global-gold-hedges-advanced-most-in-4-years-in-second-quarter-gfms-says.html
Global gold hedges, or sales of
future production, gained the most in more than four years in
the second quarter, researcher GFMS Ltd. said.  The worldwide hedge book gained about 160,000 ounces to
7.19 million ounces in the quarter, GFMS said in a report.
That’s the first and biggest increase since the fourth quarter
of 2005, GFMS mining analyst Matthew Piggott said by telephone
from London.  Gold producers sometimes sell future output at fixed prices
to secure loans. They can reduce hedges by buying back
contracts, adding to demand. AngloGold Ashanti Ltd., Africa’s
largest gold producer, said this month it raised about $1.58
billion through the sale of shares and convertible bonds, and
will use the funds to buy itself out of forward-sales agreements
that stop it benefiting from record prices.  “There is yet to be a discernible swing by producers
towards a renewed appetite for strategic hedging, with the new
hedges seen in the second quarter based around project
finance,” GFMS said in the report with Societe Generale SA.
“Once AngloGold Ashanti has cleared its hedge book, it will
then be impossible for further weighty cuts to be made to the
outstanding book.”  Johannesburg-based AngloGold Ashanti de-hedged about
290,000 ounces in the second quarter, the researcher said.
AngloGold said last year that it would cut its hedge book by
about 800,000 ounces a year.  Producers will de-hedge about 4.21 million ounces this
year, GFMS estimates. Still, gold miners will return to hedging,
according to 77 percent of participants in a survey at a London
Bullion Market Association conference in Berlin on Sept. 28.  Gold for immediate delivery had reached a record $1,313.45
an ounce by 5:12 p.m. in London yesterday. Prices have gained 20
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Larkin  in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 