-- Silver Advances to Costliest Versus Gold in 11 Months on Investor Demand
-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 2010-09-29T06:10:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/gold-silver-ratio-drops-to-less-than-60-for-first-time-since-october-2009.html
Silver climbed to the most
expensive relative to gold in 11 months as investors sought to
protect their wealth on speculation governments may add to
monetary easing to help the recovery, weakening currencies.  The ratio of gold to silver dropped below 60 for the first
time since October, falling as low as 59.8955. Silver has
outperformed the yellow metal since June 30, advancing 17
percent against gold’s 5.5 percent increase, as investors
bought the commodity because of its comparative cheapness.  “Silver is trying to catch up with gold,” said  Ellison Chu , precious metals manager at Standard Bank Asia Ltd. “Gold
is already at a record but silver is quite far from it.”  The Federal Reserve said Sept. 21 it was willing to ease
monetary policy further to spur growth and “return inflation,
over time, to levels consistent with its mandate.” The Bank of
Japan will discuss taking additional easing steps at its two-day
policy meeting starting Oct. 4, Kyodo News reported, citing
unidentified sources close to the matter.  Silver for immediate delivery gained as much as 0.8 percent
to $21.90 an ounce, the highest price since September 1980, and
last traded at $21.8340 at 2:04 p.m. in Singapore. The metal
reached an all-time high of $49.45 in January 1980, according to
Bloomberg data. Gold jumped to a record $1,312.25 an ounce today.  Dollar Weakness  Holdings  in the iShares Silver Trust, the biggest exchange
traded fund backed by the metal, climbed 143 metric tons to a
record 9,756.04 tons as of yesterday, according to the company’s
website. The metal doubles as a store of value for investors
concerned about an economic slowdown and as a raw material.
Industrial applications for silver, including electrical
conductors and batteries, represent about half global demand.  Investors have been putting money into precious metals as
other tools like the dollar are “not so reliable,” said
Standard Bank’s Chu. The  Dollar Index , a six-currency measure of
the greenback’s value, is headed for its worst quarterly
performance since the period ending June 2002.  “People are expecting the U.S. dollar to remain weak and
putting money into commodities is a good alternative,” Chu said
from Hong Kong. The Dollar Index tumbled to 78.828 today, the
lowest level since February.  China Exports  Falling exports from China contributed to silver’s recent
rally, according to Heraeus Ltd. China  exported  64 percent less
of the precious metal in the first eight months of this year
compared to the same period last year, according to customs data.  “Fabrication demand from jewelers and industrial demand
from solar panel makers has been very good this year in China,”
Heraeus’ precious metals trading manager  Dick Poon  said. China
is the world’s third-largest consumer and producer of silver,
according to The Silver Institute.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Glenys Sim  in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@Bloomberg.net  