-- ICBC Shares Fall After Goldman Sells $2.25 Billion Stake
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-09-30T08:33:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/goldman-sachs-raises-2-25-billion-from-sale-of-icbc-stock-document-shows.html
Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China Ltd.  dropped by the most in four months after  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc.  sold a stake in the world’s largest lender by
market value for HK$17.45 billion ($2.25 billion).  The stock fell 3.2 percent to HK$5.78 at the 4 p.m. close
of trading in Hong Kong. Goldman Sachs sold 3.04 billion ICBC
shares at HK$5.74 each, according to a sale document sent to
fund managers. The number of shares sold was expanded from the
2.75 billion initially offered.  Today’s slump extended the decline this year in  ICBC shares 
to 10 percent, cutting its market value to $213 billion. ICBC,
which plans to raise as much as 45 billion yuan ($6.7 billion)
in a rights offer, may be poised to rebound along with other
Chinese lenders as they complete fundraising to comply with
stricter capital rules, said analyst  Cheng Jiaoyi .  “This is not an ideal time to sell from the valuation
point of view unless you are really pessimistic about China
banks,” said Cheng, a Shanghai-based analyst at Qilu Securities
Co. who recommends buying bank shares. “My guess is that
Goldman Sachs’ move is to raise money so that it can take part
in ICBC’s upcoming rights offer.”  Yesterday’s sale was Goldman Sachs’s second offering of
shares in the  Chinese bank  after its initial ICBC investment in
2006. The stake Goldman Sachs sold yesterday, combined with a
divestment of about $2 billion in June 2009, fetched more than
four times what the New York-based firm paid for those shares.  The Beijing-based lender has more than tripled profit since
receiving a government bailout in 2005 and is poised to defend
its position as the world’s most profitable lender for a third
straight year in 2010 with net income of $23.8 billion,
according to  analysts surveyed by Bloomberg .  Loans Concern  That hasn’t been enough to dispel concerns among investors
that last year’s record lending by Chinese banks may result in a
pile-up of bad loans should the world’s fastest-growing major
economy lose steam.  BNP Paribas SA analysts led by  Dorris Chen  said in a note
today that recent meetings with investors in the U.S. confirmed
a lack of conviction in China’s banking industry because of
uncertainty about the government’s efforts to force lenders to
bolster their capital.  Goldman Sachs joins rival banks including UBS AG,  Bank of
America Corp.  and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in trimming
holdings in Chinese lenders that they bought about five years
ago, when China’s government was preparing lenders for going
public.  Goldman Sachs bought 4.9 percent of ICBC for about $2.59
billion in April 2006, when the U.S. bank invested $940 million
and funds managed by the company paid about $1.65 billion for
stakes in ICBC six months ahead of the Chinese lender’s initial
public offering, according to a regulatory filing.  ‘Strategic Partner’  The U.S. company will continue to own 10.1 billion shares,
or a 3 percent stake, in ICBC, which may be sold at any time.
Goldman Sachs had last year agreed to extend the lockup period
for 80 percent of its initial holding of 16.47 billion ICBC
shares until April 2010.  Goldman Sachs reaffirmed its commitment to cooperating with
ICBC and will continue to be a “strategic partner” after the
stake sale, the Chinese bank said today in a statement.  Allianz SE  and  American Express Co.  sold a combined $1.9
billion of shares in ICBC in April 2009 after a lockup on their
stakes ended, giving the two a total profit of about $1.3
billion on the sales.  Goldman Sachs shares slid 59 cents, or 0.4 percent, to
$144.42 in New York yesterday.  -- Luo Jun ,  Bei Hu  with assistance from Darren Boey and
Cathy Chan in Hong Kong. Editors:  Russell Ward ,  Philip Lagerkranser   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bei Hu  in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  