-- Goldman Sachs Runs U.S. Ad Campaign Emphasizing Job Creation
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2010-09-29T14:47:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/goldman-sachs-runs-u-s-advertising-campaign-emphasizing-job-creation-role.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , which
agreed in July to pay $550 million to settle a U.S. regulator’s
fraud suit, rolled out an advertising campaign today with ads
that emphasize the firm’s role in alternative energy and job
creation.  The ads began in the New York Times and the Wall Street
Journal and will extend to other national, regional and local
newspapers during the next few months, said  David Wells , a
spokesman for the New York firm.  Goldman Sachs, the most profitable U.S. securities firm in
Wall Street history, is trying to repair a reputation tarnished
by the Securities and Exchange Commission’s suit and an April
U.S. Senate hearing at which it was accused of betting against
the investments sold to clients. The ads will feature different
descriptions of the firm’s business and also appear on the
Internet.  “We’re expanding our communication to a broader audience
in an effort to promote a better understanding of who we are and
what we do,” Wells said. “The ads show how we support our
clients, including corporations, municipalities, institutions
and individuals.”  In today’s full-page ads, a photo of a field of wind
turbines under a cloudy sky is juxtaposed with a picture of a
smiling man in a hard hat and work clothes. The ad, carrying the
tag line “Progress is Everyone’s Business,” describes how the
firm helped an unidentified renewable energy company find
investors, enabling it to expand and create jobs.  ‘Mealy-Mouthed’  “It’s like they’re apologizing for being bad boys,”
said  Jerry Della Femina , chairman and chief executive officer of
Della Femina/Jeary and Partners in New York, who has worked in
the ad industry since the 1960s. The ad is “too weak, too
wimpy, too mealy-mouthed,” he said.  “The people who don’t like them and the people who don’t
respect them are not going to have their opinion changed by
looking at this,” he said. “The people who do like them and
respect them may see them as a bit diminished.”  Wells declined to disclose the budget for the campaign,
which is being handled by Young & Rubicam Inc., a division of
Dublin-based  WPP Plc .  Goldman Sachs  shares  fell $2.30, or 1.6 percent, to $142.71
at 10 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. They
have declined 15.5 percent this year compared with a 2.6 percent
gain in the S&P 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alec McCabe at 
 amccabe@bloomberg.net . 