-- Goldman's Tourre Says SEC Can't Sue Him for Overseas CDO Deal
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2010-09-30T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/goldman-s-fabrice-tourre-seeks-dismissal-of-sec-s-suit-over-subprime-cdos.html
The Securities and Exchange
Commission can’t sue  Fabrice Tourre  over a  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc.  deal involving collateralized debt obligations because the
transaction wasn’t in the U.S., his lawyers told a judge.  The U.S. Supreme Court ruled in June that U.S. securities
laws don’t apply to claims of foreign buyers of non-U.S.
securities on foreign exchanges, lawyers for the Goldman
executive director said in a court filing yesterday. The
collateralized debt obligations known as Abacus at issue in the
SEC’s complaint weren’t listed on any exchange and the sole
investor in the notes was a foreign bank that purchased them
overseas, according to the filing.  The transaction “was not subject to the antifraud
provisions of federal securities laws,” according to the filing
in federal court in Manhattan. “The complaint’s failure to
allege that any Abacus 2007-ACI transaction took place in the
United States requires dismissal.”  In August and September, the SEC turned over 10 million
pages of documents from its investigation to Tourre’s lawyer
that show that  IKB Deutsche Industriebank AG , based in
Dusseldorf, Germany, bought the CDOs, known as the Abacus
transaction, outside the U.S., according to Tourre’s filing.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to comment.  Pamela Chepiga , a lawyer for Tourre, didn’t immediately return voice-
mail and e-mail messages seeking comment after regular business
hours yesterday.  The SEC sued  Goldman Sachs  and Tourre in April over claims
the firm misled investors in the CDOs linked to subprime
mortgages.  Tourre, the only Goldman Sachs executive sued individually,
remains a defendant in the case after the firm agreed to a
$550 million settlement in July.  Fiona Laffan , a Goldman Sachs
spokeswoman, said Sept. 9 that Tourre “remains an employee on
paid leave.”  The case is SEC v. Goldman Sachs, 10-CV-3229, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Gullo  in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
 Bob Van Voris  in New York federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 