-- Goolsbee Says Cutting U.S. Unemployment Will Take Time, Effort
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2010-09-29T20:45:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/goolsbee-says-reducing-u-s-jobless-rate-will-take-a-lot-of-time-effort.html
President  Barack Obama ’s chief
economist said it will take time for administration efforts to
bring down the jobless rate to bear fruit.  “The  unemployment rate  is 9.6 percent and it takes a lot
of time and a lot of effort to get that down,”  Austan Goolsbee ,
chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Conversations with  Judy Woodruff ,” to be broadcast this weekend. “What we are trying
to do is unleash the private sector.”  Unemployment, which was at 7.7 percent in January 2009 when
Obama took office, reached a 26-year high of 10.1 percent in
October and has been 9.5 percent or higher for the past year.
The U.S. recession that ended in June of last year led to the
loss of 8.4 million jobs, the worst employment slump in the
post-World War II period.  Obama signed legislation this week that will cut taxes and
provide credit help for small businesses, calling it an
essential step for job growth in a slow economy. The world’s
largest economy expanded at a 1.6 percent annual rate last
quarter after growing at a 3.7 percent pace in the first three
months of the year.  The small-business legislation provides $56 billion worth
of tax cuts over the next 12 months, with the bulk coming
through “bonus depreciation,” which allows companies to more
quickly write off the cost of purchases. It also revives
stimulus provisions cutting fees and increasing limits on loan
guarantees offered by the Small Business Administration.  “We need to keep doing more, and as we do that the
unemployment rate will eventually be coming down,” Goolsbee
said. “We will be generating jobs,” he said. “There is no
get-rich-quick scheme to get us out of a thing that was a decade
in the making.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  