-- Grosvenor in Talks to Acquire Two Hong Kong Residential Sites
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2010-09-29T01:18:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/grosvenor-group-in-talks-to-acquire-two-hong-kong-luxury-residential-sites.html
Grosvenor Group Ltd. , the real-
estate company owned by the family trust of Britain’s Duke of
Westminster, is in talks to acquire two Hong Kong sites that it
plans to develop into luxury housing projects.  One of the sites may be on Hong Kong Island while the other
would be near the Clear Water Bay area of the Sai Kung district,
 Nicholas Loup , chief executive for Asia-Pacific at Grosvenor,
said in an interview in the city yesterday. He declined to give
details of the sites and their exact locations.  Hong Kong  home prices  -- especially of luxury properties --
have surged 46 percent since the beginning of 2009 on the back
of record low mortgage rates and an influx of mainland Chinese
buyers. To rein in prices, the government has raised down
payment ratios on luxury and investment properties and is
selling more land to developers.  “If you look at the typical cycles in Hong Kong, when the
market moved quickly, at some point it’s going to level off or
cool a bit,” said Loup. “But the medium-to-long-term view is
still very positive.”  Home transactions  in the city have contracted about 33
percent since Aug. 13 when the government announced its latest
measures to rein in home prices, according to Centaline Property
Agency Ltd. The government has said it may introduce more
measures to curb values if prices keep going up.  The two projects planned by Grosvenor in Hong Kong will be
joint development with partners, said Loup.  Loup was speaking at the  Westminster Terrace , a project
jointly developed by Grosvenor and Hong Kong-based Asia Standard
International Group Ltd. in Tsuen Wan, a district northwest of
the city center.  The development consists of 59 duplexes ranging from 3,200
square feet to 6,500 square feet.  Prices of luxury homes, defined by the government as those
valued at HK$10 million ($1.3 million) or more, or with areas
1,000 square feet or larger, may rise 10 percent over the next
12 months because of low interest rates, according to a property
broker Colliers International Ltd.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kelvin Wong  in Hong Kong at   kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  