-- Liberty Mutual Leads Four U.S. IPOs With Biggest Sale of 2010
-- B y   L a r r y   L i g h t   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2010-09-29T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/liberty-mutual-leads-four-u-s-ipos-with-biggest-sale-of-2010.html
Liberty Mutual Agency Corp.  will
lead the busiest day for U.S. initial public offerings in eight
weeks as it seeks to raise $1.3 billion in the country’s biggest
IPO of 2010.  The insurer, a Boston-based unit of Liberty Mutual Holding
Co., is offering 64.3 million Class A shares at $18 to $20 each
today, according to filings with the Securities and Exchange
Commission.  ChinaCache International Holdings Ltd.  and two other
companies will seek to raise a combined $426 million today,
while  China Ming Yang Wind Power Group Ltd.  will follow tomorrow
with a $400 million IPO, SEC filings show.  U.S. IPOs have started to rebound this month, with
offerings from China’s  SouFun Holdings Ltd.  and  Country Style
Cooking Restaurant Chain Co.  surging at least 47 percent after
more than half of 2010’s deals left buyers with losses. Liberty
Mutual Agency is seeking to sell almost twice the amount of this
year’s largest initial sale at a 16 percent premium to its
competitors, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Investors will be leaning more toward offerings that
provide a higher growth profile” than Liberty Mutual, said
 Walter Todd , co-chief investment officer at Greenwood Capital in
Greenwood, South Carolina, which oversees about $800 million.
“China specifically certainly piques people’s interest.”  Property Insurance  Citigroup Inc.  in New York and Bank of America Corp. of
Charlotte, North Carolina, will lead the sale for Liberty Mutual
Agency. The second-largest writer of property and casualty
insurance distributed through independent agencies in the U.S.
will use proceeds to help repay debt to its policyholder-owned
parent, which will maintain a majority stake, the filing shows.  Sales at property-casualty insurers have been pressured
since 2007 by the U.S. economy’s longest recession since the
Great Depression. An unemployment  rate  near 10 percent means
builders and manufacturers have less need for workers’
compensation coverage than before the recession, and individuals
have been scaling back coverage of homes and autos.  U.S. property and casualty sales gained for the first time
in 13 quarters in the three months ended June 30 as carriers
including Northbrook, Illinois-based  Allstate Corp.  raised rates
to counter the slowdown in demand. Second-quarter policy sales
rose 1.3 percent to $107.6 billion from the year-earlier period,
the Property Casualty Insurers Association of America said Sept.
16 in a  statement .  ‘Steady Business’  Liberty Mutual “is not a high-growth company, and
property-casualty is still a very competitive area,” said  Paul Bard , director of research at Greenwich, Connecticut-based
Renaissance Capital LLC, which has studied IPOs since 1991.
“But Liberty does have a steady business.”  Property-casualty carriers including  Travelers Cos. , the
New York-based insurer added to the Dow Jones Industrial Average
last year, and Warren, New Jersey-based  Chubb Corp.  sidestepped
the worst of the financial crisis by investing in municipal
bonds and corporate debt rather than holdings tied to the
housing market.  “The majority of property and casualty carriers do not
have sizable exposures to problematic asset classes such as real
estate-related investments, where risks remain elevated,” said
 Bruce Ballentine , a New York-based analyst at Moody’s Investors
Service, in an Aug. 30 report. “On average, 25 percent of
property and casualty insurers’ investment portfolios are in
municipal bonds, and the portfolios generally are of high
quality.”  Relative Value  At the midpoint price of $19, Liberty Mutual Agency’s shares
are valued at 1.3 times tangible book value, according to
IPOdesktop.com in Marina del Rey, California. That’s higher than
the average ratio of 1.12 for  Chubb , Travelers, and three other
companies Liberty Mutual Agency cites as competitors in its
prospectus, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Liberty Mutual Agency’s offering would surpass the $676
million raised in June by Houston-based  Oasis Petroleum Inc.  as
this year’s biggest U.S. IPO. General Motors Co. of Detroit may
seek $8 billion to $10 billion in a November initial sale, two
people familiar with the matter said last week.  ChinaCache International Holdings , the Beijing-based
provider of Internet content to businesses and government
agencies, is selling 5.5 million American depositary receipts at
$10 to $12 each today. Bank of America and Frankfurt-based
Deutsche Bank AG are arranging the deal, the prospectus shows.  China Ming Yang Wind Power , the Zhongshan, China-based
maker of wind turbines, is offering 25 million ADRs at $14 to
$16 each tomorrow. Morgan Stanley in New York, Credit Suisse
Group AG of Zurich and Bank of America are leading the offering,
SEC filings show.  Best Performers  Chinese companies account for five of the 10 best-
performing IPOs in the U.S. this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. SouFun, the Beijing-based operator of
China’s biggest property website, posted the second-largest
first-day gain for a U.S. IPO this year, climbing 73 percent on
Sept. 17 after raising $125 million. Country Style Cooking
Restaurant, which operates fast-food outlets in Chongqing,
China, surged 47 percent yesterday after raising $82.5 million.  Elster Group SE , the Essen, Germany-based provider of gas,
electricity and water meters, is offering 16.2 million ADRs at
$16 to $18 each today. Deutsche Bank, along with New York-based
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co., is arranging
the deal.  Rhino Resource Partners LP , the Lexington, Kentucky-based
operator of coal properties, is selling 3.24 million units at
$19 to $21 each. Raymond James Financial Inc. of St. Petersburg,
Florida, Toronto-based Royal Bank of Canada, and  Stifel
Financial Corp.  of St. Louis are leading the offering.  Stock Market Rebound  The last time more companies sold shares on the same day in
the U.S. was Aug. 5, when five completed deals, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  At least 44 companies have postponed or withdrawn initial
sales this year as concern that the economic recovery is
deteriorating sent the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index down as much
as 16 percent from its  2010 high  on April 23 through July 2. The
benchmark gauge has rallied 9.4 percent this month as reports on
durable goods orders and initial jobless claims convinced some
investors the U.S. won’t fall back into a recession.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Larry Light  in New York at 
 llight1@bloomberg.net ;
 Lee Spears  in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 