-- Fidelity Loses Top Mutual-Fund Spot to Bogle's Indexing
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2010-09-29T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/liberty-mutual-agency-leads-four-u-s-ipos-with-biggest-offering-of-2010.html
John Bogle  has preached the virtues
of low-cost indexing since the 1970s to investors willing to pay
higher fees for big-name money managers at firms such as
Fidelity Investments.  His persistence, which earned him the nickname “Saint
Jack,” paid off this year when Vanguard Group Inc. unseated
Fidelity as the largest U.S. mutual-fund company by assets, a
distinction the Boston firm had held for more than two decades.  A decade bookended by  bear markets  has sapped U.S.
investors’ faith in the ability of money managers to protect
them from losses, spurring a rush into cheaper index funds
pioneered by Vanguard. Bogle, 81, founded the Valley Forge,
Pennsylvania-based firm in 1975 on the idea that most
professionals can’t beat the market, so it’s not worth paying
them to try. Edward “Ned” Johnson, 80, took over Fidelity two
years later and built the family business by betting on star
stock pickers such as  Peter Lynch .  “It’s the triumph of indexing over active management,”
 Daniel Wiener , editor of Independent Adviser for Vanguard
Investors, a New York-based newsletter, said in an interview.
Index funds mimic the makeup of the market benchmarks they are
designed to track, while active managers pick securities based
on research.  Fidelity Magellan Fund, run by a prominent list of managers
including Johnson, Lynch and  Jeffrey Vinik , produced middle-of-
the-pack returns in the past decade. Once the world’s largest
mutual fund, Magellan is now one-fourth the size of the $87
billion  Vanguard 500 Index Fund .  Attention to Costs  Vanguard has benefited as the stock market foundered, said
 Michael Miller,  a managing director at the firm. The market in
2009 came through its first full decade of losses since the
1930s, and U.S. bond yields are near record lows this year.  “People pay more attention to costs when returns are
less,” Miller said in a telephone interview.  The shift may be more than temporary, said  Jack Ablin ,
chief investment officer at Chicago-based Harris Private Bank,
which manages $55 billion.  “It is possible investing has changed for good,” he said.
“People don’t want to rely on stock pickers who have not earned
their keep,” and active managers will have to “demonstrate
that they have an edge that is worth the management fee they
charge.”  On a dollar-weighted basis, stock-index funds charge an
average of 29 cents per $100, compared with 95 cents for active
funds, data from Denver-based research firm Lipper show.  Power of Marketing  Some of Vanguard’s success can be attributed to the
“miracle of marketing,” said  James Lowell , editor the
FidelityInvestor.com, a Needham, Massachusetts, newsletter. The
firm has sold investors on the benefits of indexing even though
the strategy has yielded lackluster performance, said Lowell,
who helps oversee $1.2 billion, mostly in active funds.  In the 10 years ended Aug. 31, actively run domestic stock
funds returned 0.9 percent a year compared with an annual loss
of 2 percent for index funds, data from Chicago-based
Morningstar Inc. show. Fidelity’s equity funds returned an
average of 2.1 percent a year versus 1.2 percent for Vanguard’s,
according to Lipper.  Investors took a net $301 billion out of actively run
equity funds in the U.S. from the start of 2008 through August,
Morningstar estimates, while stock-index funds attracted $113
billion. The global financial crisis sent the S&P 500 sliding 57
percent from its peak October 2007 to its 12-year low in March
2009.  Vanguard also benefited from the popularity of bond funds.
From Jan. 1, 2008, through Aug. 31, 2010, the company’s fixed-
income portfolios pulled in $134 billion while Fidelity’s
attracted $33 billion.  Passing Fidelity  The shift into index funds helped Vanguard snatch the No. 1
ranking from Fidelity in March. Johnson’s firm has topped the
list each year since 1988, when it overtook Merrill Lynch & Co.  Vanguard had $1.31 trillion in fund assets as of July 31,
compared with $1.24 trillion for its main rival, according to
the most recent data from the  Investment Company Institute , a
Washington-based trade group.  Vanguard’s climb may also have been aided by its unusual
business model. The company is owned by its mutual funds, which
are owned by their investors.  “The ownership blueprint holds costs down and keeps the
folks at Vanguard thinking like their customers,”  Nancy Koehn, 
a professor at the Harvard Business School in Boston, said in an
e-mailed response to questions.  Lynch Legacy  Fidelity is privately held, with 49 percent owned by the
Johnsons and the rest by employees. The firm, while also
offering cheap index funds, has been known for stock selection
since the days of Lynch, who gained 29 percent a year before
stepping down in 1990. From 1993 to 2007, funds led by stock
pickers lured almost four times as much money as those that
track benchmark indexes, Morningstar data show.  As the largest U.S. manager of money-market funds, Fidelity
was also hurt as investors abandoned the short-term vehicles
when yields fell below 1 percent last year.  Fidelity oversaw $442 billion in money funds as of Aug. 31,
compared with $165 billion at Vanguard, according to  Crane Data
LLC  in Westborough, Massachusetts. Fidelity’s money-fund assets
fell 13 percent in 12 months.  “Our focus has never been on being the largest company,
but on providing the best products and services for our
customers,”  Vincent Loporchio , a Fidelity spokesman, said in a
telephone interview.  Edward C. Johnson II , the late father of the current
chairman, took over the original Fidelity Fund, which is still
operating, in 1943. Three years later, Fidelity was created to
act as an adviser to the fund.  Fidelity’s Evolution  Once mainly a mutual-fund company, Fidelity now is “one of
the world’s largest providers of financial services,” Loporchio
said. The firm has expanded into stock trading, retirement plans
and institutional money management.  In 2009, Fidelity reported operating income of $2.52
billion on revenue of $11.5 billion. The firm doesn’t report net
income based on generally accepted accounting principles.
Vanguard doesn’t release financial results.  In May, Fidelity named  Abigail Johnson  and  Ronald O’Hanley 
to top roles after splitting responsibility for running the
company. Abigail is Ned Johnson’s daughter. O’Hanley previously
headed money management at Bank of New York Mellon Corp.  Vanguard had been catching up with Fidelity for at least a
decade, since the bursting of the technology stock bubble in
2000 led to market declines through 2002.  At the end of 1999, Fidelity had $857 billion in mutual
funds, 59 percent more than Vanguard, ICI data show. The tally
comprises stock, bond and money-market funds. Each is priced at
the end of the trading day based on the value of its assets.  $440 Billion Infusion  The ICI numbers do not include exchange-traded funds, a
variation of index funds whose prices change as they trade
through the day like stocks. Vanguard had $113 billion in ETF
assets at the end of August, according to Boston-based State
Street Corp. Fidelity has largely ignored that business.  In the 10 years ended Dec. 31, Vanguard’s stock and bond
funds attracted $440 billion, compared with $101 billion for
Fidelity,  Morningstar  estimates. This year through August,
Vanguard pulled in $49 billion while Fidelity had withdrawals of
$2.8 billion, according to the research firm.  Fidelity isn’t the only manager of actively managed stock
funds to suffer at the expense of indexers. Investors at
American Funds, run by Los Angeles-based Capital Group Cos.,
took out $29 billion this year while Baltimore-based Legg Mason
Inc. had redemptions of $2.6 billion, Morningstar data show.  Wellington Fund  Indexing doesn’t explain all of Vanguard’s success. About
49 percent of the firm’s assets are in actively run funds,
Rebecca Katz, a Vanguard spokeswoman, said in a telephone
interview.  Among the firm’s active offerings are the $48 billion
 Wellington Fund  and the $18 billion  Vanguard Health Care Fund ,
the best-performing U.S. mutual fund over the past 25 years,
according to Morningstar. The fund averaged annual returns of 15
percent, compared with 9.7 percent for the S&P 500, Bloomberg
data show.  Still, almost 80 percent of the money Vanguard’s stock and
bond funds attracted this year went to indexing, Morningstar
said.  Indexing drew Kent Grealish, a financial adviser in San
Bruno, California, outside San Francisco, to Vanguard in 2004.
Grealish said he spent most of his career as a believer in stock
selection. Over time, “I changed my attitude about my ability
and the ability of others to beat the market,” he said in a
telephone interview.  Industry Critic  His clients now essentially match the market’s performance
at a low cost, he said. Vanguard’s biggest index fund, the $113
billion  Total Stock Market Index Fund , charges clients as little
as 7 cents for every $100 they put in, according to the firm.  For decades, said Harvard’s Koehn,  Bogle  has been touting
his company’s simple approach and criticizing the financial
industry for its supposed excesses.  “The world has changed profoundly, and Vanguard is sitting
right where the market has arrived,” Koehn said in a telephone
interview.  Bogle, who ran Vanguard until 1996, has stayed in the
public eye by publishing articles and books and making media
appearances. Bogle didn’t return a call seeking comment.  Fidelity developed a reputation for innovative products,
solid customer service and for bringing mutual funds to a wider
audience, said  Russel Kinnel , director of fund research for
Morningstar.  Lynch ran  Magellan  from 1977 to 1990, when his yearly gains
were almost twice the S&P 500’s 15 percent. His books “One Up
on Wall Street” and “Beating the Street” became best-sellers.  Mediocre Returns  More recently, the firm’s stock performance has been
“mediocre,” Kinnel said. Fidelity’s equity funds beat 57
percent of their peers in the decade ended Dec. 31, Morningstar
data show.  Magellan lost an average of 3.7 percent annually in the 10
years ended Aug. 31, compared with a decline of 1.8 percent for
the S&P 500, Bloomberg data show. The fund’s assets have fallen
to $20 billion from a peak of about $110 billion in 2000.  Fidelity still has some of the industry’s best-known
managers.  Joel Tillinghast , who runs the $28 billion  Low-Priced Stock
Fund,  topped all but one diversified U.S. mutual fund,  Robert Rodriguez ’s FPA Capital, over the past 20 years with gains
averaging 14 percent, Morningstar data show.  Broader Business  Fidelity’s bond performance has been strong, said  John Bonnanzio , editor of Fidelity Insight, a newsletter based in
Wellesley, Massachusetts. Even so, the company has struggled to
compete for investor attention with Pacific Investment
Management Co., he said in a telephone interview.  “Fidelity doesn’t have the marketing zing Pimco can bring
with  Bill Gross ,” Bonnanzio said.  Pimco, based in Newport Beach, California, has brought in
$54 billion this year, the most among fund companies, according
to Morningstar. Gross, named in January as Morningstar’s fixed-
income manager of the decade, runs the world’s largest bond
fund, the $248 billion  Pimco Total Return Fund.   Fidelity operates a so-called fund supermarket that lets
investors choose from more than 5,000 funds, most of them run by
competitors. Its 401(k) business, the nation’s largest, offers
both Fidelity and non-Fidelity funds to its 11 million accounts.
The firm owns a discount brokerage that sells stocks, bonds,
exchange-traded funds and other financial products.  “They have been preparing for the day when their funds
couldn’t outperform,” Bonnanzio said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at  cbaumgaertel at +1-
   cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  