-- Liberty Mutual Agency Pulls Biggest U.S. IPO of 2010
-- B y   L a r r y   L i g h t   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2010-09-29T19:02:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/liberty-mutual-pulls-biggest-u-s-ipo-of-2010-on-unfavorable-environment.html
Liberty Mutual Holding Co., the
policyholder-owned insurer, postponed the largest U.S. initial
public offering of 2010 as demand was less than the company had
projected for a unit that sells policies through agents.  Liberty Mutual Agency Corp.  was seeking to raise almost
$1.3 billion selling 64.3 million Class A shares at $18 to $20
each, according to filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  Citigroup Inc.  and Bank of America Corp. were
leading the offering.  At least 45 companies have postponed or withdrawn U.S.
initial sales this year as concern that the recovery from the
longest recession since the Great Depression is deteriorating
sent the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  down as much as 16 percent
from its 2010 high.  “The stalled economic recovery, volatile stock market and
undervalued property-and-casualty insurance  stock prices  create
an unfavorable environment for receiving appropriate value for
the business,” Boston-based Liberty Mutual Holding said today
in a statement distributed by Business Wire.  U.S. IPOs had started to rebound this month, with offerings
from China’s  SouFun Holdings Ltd.  and  Country Style Cooking
Restaurant Chain Co.  surging at least 47 percent after more than
half of 2010’s deals left buyers with losses. Liberty Mutual
Agency was seeking to sell almost twice the amount of this
year’s largest initial sale at a 16 percent premium to its
competitors, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Have to Ask’  Some investors likely shunned the offering because of
concern it would benefit the parent company rather than the
unit, according to  Linda Killian , co-founder of Greenwich,
Connecticut-based Renaissance Capital LLC, which has studied
IPOs since 1991. About $1.2 billion of proceeds were to be paid
to the parent, the  prospectus  showed.  “If you are investing in the subsidiary, you have to ask
why your money is going to the parent,” Killian said. Liberty
Mutual Holding would have controlled 82 percent of the shares.  Sales at property-casualty insurers have been pressured
since 2007 by the U.S. economy’s downturn. An unemployment  rate 
near 10 percent means builders and manufacturers have less need
for workers’ compensation coverage than before the recession,
and individuals have scaled back coverage of homes and autos.  ‘Adequate Capital’  U.S. property and casualty sales gained for the first time
in 13 quarters in the three months ended June 30 as carriers
including Northbrook, Illinois-based  Allstate Corp.  raised rates
to counter the slowdown in demand. Second-quarter policy sales
rose 1.3 percent to $107.6 billion from the year-earlier period,
the Property Casualty Insurers Association of America said Sept.
16 in a  statement .  “The delay will not impact our business or our day-to-day
operations,”  Edmund “Ted” Kelly , chief executive officer of
Liberty Mutual Agency’s parent, said in today’s statement.
“While we still believe this transaction is a useful step in
giving the Group additional capital flexibility, we have more
than adequate capital to conduct our business successfully.”  Property-casualty carriers including  Travelers Cos. , the
New York-based insurer added to the Dow Jones Industrial Average
last year, and Warren, New Jersey-based  Chubb Corp.  sidestepped
the worst of the financial crisis by investing in municipal
bonds and corporate debt rather than holdings tied to the
housing market.  ‘Risks Remain Elevated’  “The majority of property and casualty carriers do not
have sizable exposures to problematic asset classes such as real
estate-related investments, where risks remain elevated,” said
 Bruce Ballentine , a New York-based analyst at Moody’s Investors
Service, in an Aug. 30 report. “On average, 25 percent of
property and casualty insurers’ investment portfolios are in
municipal bonds, and the portfolios generally are of high
quality.”  At the IPO’s midpoint price of $19, Liberty Mutual Agency’s
shares were valued at 1.3 times tangible book value, according
to IPOdesktop.com in Marina del Rey, California. That’s higher
than the average ratio of 1.12 for  Chubb , Travelers, and three
other companies Liberty Mutual Agency cites as competitors in
its prospectus, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Liberty Mutual Agency’s offering would have surpassed the
$676 million raised in June by Houston-based  Oasis Petroleum
Inc.  as this year’s biggest U.S. IPO. General Motors Co. of
Detroit may seek $8 billion to $10 billion in a November initial
sale, two people familiar with the matter said last week.  Liberty Mutual is “a symptom that it’s not a perfect
environment to be going public in,” said  Lawrence Creatura , a
Rochester, New York-based fund manager at Federated Investors
Inc., which oversees about $350 billion. “The dynamics
surrounding the insurance industry are very different from the
dynamics of some of the more successful IPOs that have occurred
recently. Company-specific and industry-specific conditions
matter to IPO investors, and that appears to be what happened in
this case.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Larry Light  in New York at 
 llight1@bloomberg.net ;
 Lee Spears  in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 