-- ICAP Sues 38 Singapore Brokers to Stop Defection to Swiss Rival Tradition
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2010-09-29T09:05:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/icap-sues-38-singapore-brokers-to-stop-move-to-rival-tradition.html
ICAP Plc , the world’s biggest
broker of trades between banks, sued 38 of its dealers in
Singapore and Swiss rival  Compagnie Financiere Tradition SA  in a
bid to block its employees from defecting.  ICAP handles $1 trillion in daily trades and “in one fell
swoop” risked losing long-standing relationships with customers
including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , Merrill Lynch & Co. and
JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  Kim Rosenkilde , chief executive officer of
London-based ICAP’s Asian operations, said in papers filed with
the Singapore High Court this month.  The group had access to confidential data including
clients’ list, trading strategies and brokers’ pay, ICAP said.
The information, if wrongfully disclosed, would give its
competitors “a unique opportunity to mount a wholesale raid
on” ICAP’s workforce, according to the papers.  Rosenkilde e-mailed Steve Miles, managing director of
Tradition’s Singapore operations on Sept. 12, informing the
Swiss broker that the group would be breaching their employment
contracts and ICAP would protect its legal rights, according to
the papers. ICAP has about 300 employees in Singapore.  The court ordered Lausanne, Switzerland-based Tradition on
Sept. 22 to stop recruiting ICAP’s brokers until the dispute is
resolved,  Mike Sheard , an ICAP spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement.  “Although the situation is somewhat uncertain, its
potential impact is not currently regarded as likely to be
material for the purposes of ICAP’s results,” he said,
declining to comment further.  No Comment  Regina Malzburg, a London-based spokeswoman for Tradition,
declined to comment, as did lawyers  Christopher Daniel  and
 Suresh Nair  who are representing the brokers. Tradition and the
group haven’t filed their statements of defense.  The group breached their employment agreements because they
failed to disclose that they had been approached by Tradition,
didn’t serve the full term of their contracts and submitted
resignations before a deadline would have allowed, ICAP said.  “Brokers operate as a tightly knitted team,” ICAP said.
The men are “therefore in a position to exert considerable
influence over the brokers remaining.”  A Tradition employee, said in a Sept. 9 instant message to
one of ICAP’s brokers that the Swiss interdealer broker “will
be an old ICAP bookies alumni,” according to the court papers.  The case is ICAP AP (Singapore) Pte. vs M. Divakaran & Ors
S703/2010 in the Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Tan  in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  