-- Michelin Names New York’s Best Value Eateries for $40 or Less
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2010-09-29T12:40:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/michelin-names-best-value-restaurants-in-new-york-city-priced-40-or-less.html
The Michelin Guide today names 21
more eateries in New York as offering value for money, adding to
a list that includes Momofuku Noodle Bar and the Fatty Crab.  Hecho en Dumbo, a Mexican restaurant on the Bowery, and
Fatty ‘Cue, chef Zak Pelaccio’s Malaysian-inspired barbecue
joint in Brooklyn, are among those to receive a Bib Gourmand,
meaning they offer a good two-course meal and a glass of wine or
a dessert for $40 or less.  “If you live in or if you visit New York, you need to know
not only which restaurants are the world’s best, but which
restaurants deliver the best value,”  Jean-Luc Naret , director
of the Michelin guides, said today in an e-mailed release.  The Bib Gourmand winners are named today as a prelude to
publication next week of “Michelin Guide New York City 2011.”
The winners of Michelin stars will be announced on Oct. 6. The
Paris-based guide last year awarded the maximum three stars to
Daniel, Jean Georges, Le Bernardin, Masa and Per Se.  With the latest additions, there will be 95 Bib Gourmand
eateries in New York. Michelin introduced the category in 1997.  Michelin & Cie . is the world’s second-biggest tiremaker. It
produced its first so-called Red Guide at the turn of the 20th
century to encourage motoring. The guides are expanding
internationally under Naret and now cover 23 countries. Three
stars mean “Exceptional cuisine, worth a special journey.”  ( Richard Vines  is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Richard Vines  in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or Richardvines on
 http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 