-- Icon Health Plans Debt as High-Yield Bond Yields Decline: New Issue Alert
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2010-09-29T08:35:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/icon-health-plans-debt-as-high-yield-bond-yields-decline-new-issue-alert.html
Icon Health & Fitness Inc., the
Logan, Utah-based maker of exercise equipment, is marketing debt
as yields on speculative-grade corporate securities fall to the
lowest in more than three years.  Icon is planning to sell $205 million of notes due in 2016,
according to a person familiar with the offering. Proceeds may
be used to repay bank borrowing, said the person, who declined
to be identified because terms aren’t set.  September sales of high-yield, high-risk corporate bonds
surged to the most in five months as borrowing costs fell to the
lowest since June 2007. Companies are taking advantage of
falling yields to refinance debt and mend their balance sheets,
said Scott MacDonald, head of credit and economic research at
Stamford, Connecticut-based Aladdin Capital LLC.  “Corporate fundamentals are strong,” MacDonald said in a
telephone interview. “Corporations are adjusting to a very
anemic recovery, and they’re taking advantage of really low
interest rates to come in and restructure their debt.”  Yields on junk-rated corporate bonds fell 3 basis points
yesterday to 8.09 percent, the lowest since June 26, 2007,
according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield
Master II Index. Spreads on the debt were unchanged at 636 basis
points, the index data show.  High-yield, high-risk, or junk, debt is rated below Baa3 by
Moody’s Investors Service and BBB- by Standard & Poor’s. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  Icon Ratings  Icon’s notes were ranked B2 by Moody’s, five steps below
investment grade, while S&P rated them B-, one step lower.  Investment-grade corporate bond spreads were unchanged at
184 basis points, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch
U.S. Corporate Master Index. Absolute yields on the debt fell 4
basis points to 3.65 basis points, the lowest in data going back
to Oct. 31, 1986.  BP Plc sold $3.5 billion of debt in a two-part offering,
its first in U.S. dollars since the April 20 explosion that
caused the worst offshore oil spill in U.S. history, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Banco do Brasil SA issued $600
million of 10.5-year notes in yesterday’s other investment-grade
corporate bond sale.  Healthsouth Corp. sold $525 million of debt after
increasing the size of the transaction to bring high-yield debt
sales this month to $32 billion, the most since companies issued
$34.2 billion in April, Bloomberg data show.  Companies sold $142.8 billion of debt in the U.S. corporate
bond market for the busiest September on record, and the most
sales since March 2009, when borrowers issued $143.9 billion of
debt, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Issuance this week is $15.6 billion of investment-grade
debt and $1.33 billion of junk bonds, Bloomberg data show,
compared with $9.9 billion of high-grade sales and $7 billion of
speculative offerings in the similar period last week.  The following is a description of at least $10.7 billion of
pending sales of dollar-denominated bonds in the U.S.  Investment Grade  QATAR ISLAMIC BANK SAQ plans to sell its first dollar
sukuk, according to a statement from the Gulf state’s biggest
Shariah-compliant lender. “The sukuk is expected to be
launched, subject to market conditions” and Credit Suisse Group
AG, HSBC Holdings Plc and Qatari investment bank QInvest have
been hired to manage the issuance, said the statement on the
Qatar Exchange website. Chief Executive Officer Salah Mohammed
Jaidah said on May 19 the company may issue up to $750 million
of the notes that comply with the religion’s ban on interest.  HYUNDAI MOTOR CO. , South Korea’s largest automaker, plans
to sell bonds denominated in U.S. dollars, according to a person
familiar with the matter. Barclays Plc, Citigroup Inc., HSBC
Holdings Plc and JPMorgan Chase & Co. are managing the sale,
said the person, who asked not to be identified because the
details are private.  TRANSPOWER NEW ZEALAND LTD., which operates New Zealand’s
electricity grid, started marketing at least $150 million of
bonds to U.S. private investors, according to a person familiar
with the plan. National Australia Bank Ltd. and Citigroup Inc.
are managing the sale, the person said, asking not to be named
as the details are private.  DOHA BANK QSC, Qatar’s third-largest bank, may raise as
much as $1 billion from bond sales, its chief executive officer
said. The debt is likely to be for five years and is meant to
“fix the maturity mismatch” on the bank’s balance sheet,
 Raghavan Seetharaman  said in a June 16 telephone interview from
Doha. The bank will sell the bonds in dollars and the local
riyal currency, the CEO said in a July 25 interview.  Not Rated  DUBAI may raise $750 million by selling five-year dollar
notes, according to two bankers familiar with the plan. The
emirate also plans to raise $300 million to $500 million from a
10-year bond sale, said the bankers, who declined to be
identified as the terms have not been finalized. Dubai hired
Deutsche Bank AG, HSBC Holdings Plc and Standard Chartered Plc
as joint lead managers for a dollar bond offering.  VOTORANTIM CIMENTOS SA plans to sell perpetual bonds in
dollars, which are callable after five years, years, according
to a banker involved in the transaction. Bank of America Corp.,
HSBC Holdings Plc, Itau Unibanco Holding SA and Morgan Stanley
are managing the issue, which will be guaranteed by Votorantim
Participacoes SA and Votorantim Industrial SA, the banker said.  STERICYCLE INC. plans to issue $175 million of seven-year,
3.89 percent notes and $225 million of 10-year, 4.47 percent
debt after receiving informal commitments from 22 institutional
investors to buy the securities, it said in a statement
distributed by Business Wire.  SEADRILL LTD.  plans to issue $200 million to $400 million
of five-year, U.S.-dollar denominated debt, it said in a
statement. Carnegie ASA and Pareto Securities AS are joint-lead
managers and joint book runners, according to the statement.  High Yield  SEARS HOLDINGS CORP. , the largest U.S. department-store
chain, plans to issue $500 million of senior secured notes
maturing in 2018, according to a company statement distributed
by PR Newswire today. Proceeds may be used to repay borrowings
under the company’s senior secured revolving credit facility, to
fund working capital requirements of its retail businesses and
for general corporate purposes, the statement said.  OMEGA HEALTHCARE INVESTORS INC., the real estate investment
trust specializing in long-term care facilities, plans to sell
$200 million of  notes  due in 2022, according to a statement
distributed by Business Wire. Proceeds will be used to repay
borrowings under Omega Healthcare’s senior revolving credit
facility and for general corporate purposes, the Hunt Valley,
Maryland-base company said in the statement.  ICON HEALTH & FITNESS INC., the Logan, Utah-based exercise
equipment manufacturer, plans to sell $205 million of six-year
senior secured notes, according to a person familiar with the
transaction, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t
set.  TPC GROUP INC. plans to sell $325 million of seven-year
notes through its TPC Group LLC unit, according to a statement
distributed by PR Newswire. Proceeds may be used to repay debt
and finance a dividend, the company said in the statement.
Moody’s ranked the debt B1 and S&P assigned the notes an
equivalent grade of B+.  ARDAGH GLASS HOLDINGS LTD. plans to sell 7- and 10-year
bonds in euros and dollars, according to a banker involved in
the transaction. The seven-year issue comprises 850 million euro
and $375 million portions, and the 10-year issue includes 315
million euros and $310 million, the banker said. Citigroup Inc.,
Credit Suisse Group AG and JPMorgan Chase & Co. are managing the
sale. The notes will be issued through Ardagh Packaging Finance
Plc.  BURGER KING HOLDINGS INC. may sell $900 million of 8-year
notes denominated in U.S. dollars and euros, according to a
person familiar with the transaction. Proceeds may be used to
help pay for Burger King’s acquisition by 3G Capital, said the
person, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.
The debt may be issued through Blue Acquisition Sub Inc. and
price on Oct. 1 or Oct. 4, the person said.  ROTECH HEALTHCARE INC., a provider of home respiratory
products, plans to sell $225 million of five-year senior secured
notes, the company said in a statement distributed by Business
Wire. Proceeds may be used to repay borrowings under the
company’s existing payment-in-kind term loan facility and for
general corporate purposes, according to the statement.  REYNOLDS GROUP HOLDINGS LTD., the maker of Reynolds Wrap
aluminum foil, may sell $2 billion of senior secured notes and
$1.5 billion of senior unsecured notes to help pay for its
purchase of Pactiv Corp., according to a person familiar with
the transaction who declined to be identified because terms
aren’t set. Reynolds Group is also seeking $1.5 billion in loans
to pay for the acquisition, the person said.  BREITBURN ENERGY PARTNERS LP plans to sell $250 million of
10-year notes, according to a statement distributed by Business
Wire. Proceeds from the sale will be used to repay bank
borrowings, BreitBurn said in the statement.  AFFINION GROUP HOLDINGS INC., the provider of marketing and
customer-loyalty plans, intends to sell about $325 million of
senior notes due in 2015. Proceeds may be used to repay the
company’s senior unsecured term loan facility and for general
corporate purposes.  HAPAG-LLOYD AG, Germany’s biggest container-shipping line,
is planning a debut high-yield bond issue as it seeks to raise
$500 million to refinance debt. The notes in euros and dollars
will have maturities of five and seven years, according to a
banker involved in the transaction. The five-year notes will be
callable after three years, while the seven-year notes can be
called after four years, said the banker, who declined to be
identified before terms are set.  CHINA MEDICAL TECHNOLOGIES INC., which makes devices for
tumor treatments, plans to sell as much as $200 million of five-
year senior notes denominated in dollars, the company said in a
statement distributed by PR Newswire. Proceeds will be used to
buy back convertible notes due in 2011 and 2013, Fitch Ratings
said in a statement. Deutsche Bank AG and Standard Chartered Plc
will help the Beijing-based company arrange meetings with
investors in Hong Kong, Singapore, London and the U.S., said a
person familiar with the transaction who asked not to be
identified because terms aren’t set.  LODGENET INTERACTIVE CORP. plans to sell $435 million of
six-year notes, according to a filing with the Securities and
Exchange Commission.  YASAR HOLDING AS, a Turkish company that makes dairy and
meat products, paint and paper, plans to sell five-year notes
denominated in U.S. dollars, said a person familiar with the
matter. Barclays Plc is managing the sale, which will be used to
fund a senior loan to Yasar from Barclays Bank Plc, said the
person, who asked not to be identified because the details are
private.  WEST CORP. , the communications-services provider taken
private by Thomas H. Lee Partners LP and Quadrangle Group LLC in
2006, plans to sell $500 million of notes due 2018 to repay bank
debt, according to Standard & Poor’s. S&P assigned the debt a
grade of B, the credit rater said in a statement. Moody’s
Investors Service ranked the notes B3, on step lower, it said in
a separate statement.  DINEEQUITY INC., the owner of Applebee’s Neighborhood Grill
& Bar and the IHOP pancake chain, plans to sell as much as $825
million of eight-year senior unsecured notes, the company said
in a statement distributed by Marketwire. Proceeds may be used
to help fund tender offers for “certain series of its
subsidiaries’ outstanding securitization notes,” the Glendale,
California-based company said in the statement.  E-LAND FASHION CHINA HOLDINGS LTD, the Hong Kong-based
apparel products provider, hired Morgan Stanley to help it sell
$200 million of three-year bonds, according to a person familiar
with the matter. Moody’s Investors Service ranked the proposed
notes at Ba2, citing growing personal consumption in China, E-
Land Fashion’s moderate scale and significant business
volatility. Proceeds will be used mainly for capital
expenditures and general corporate purposes, Moody’s said in the
report.  Split Rated  AWAS AVIATION CAPITAL LTD., a unit of the Dublin-based
aircraft leasing company AWAS, plans to sell $600 million of
senior secured notes due in 2016, the company said in a
statement on its website. Proceeds may be used to repay debt, to
finance the purchase of new aircraft and for general corporate
purposes, according to the statement.  Offerings in Pipeline  TURKIYE IS BANKASI AS , a Turkish bank, applied to Turkey’s
capital markets regulator to sell dollar-denominated bonds
abroad, according to a filing with the Istanbul Stock Exchange.  BANCO DE CREDITO E INVERSIONES , Chile’s fourth-largest
lender by assets, postponed the sale of five-year notes in U.S.
dollars, according to a person familiar with the offering.  The company had planned to sell the notes as soon as Sept.
24, said the person, who declined to be identified because the
marketing was private.  SYDNEY AIRPORTS CORP. hired Bank of America Merrill Lynch,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc to
arrange debt investor meetings in Asia and the U.S., according
to a person familiar with the matter.  AEGIS LTD., an outsourcing unit of Essar Group, may sell
the first non-convertible dollar bonds from an Indian
information technology company. The company, which bought
PeopleSupport Inc. in 2008, may sell its bonds as part of a
financing package that would include a loan of as much as $350
million to consolidate debt, Chief Financial Officer C.M. Sharma
said. The money would go to fund expansion  AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC. , the insurer that’s
majority owned by the U.S., may sell bonds to help repay its
government bailout, it said in an Aug. 9 registration statement
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  GATX CORP ., a Chicago-based company that leases railroad
cars and other equipment, filed a shelf registration with the
Securities and Exchange Commission to sell debt securities and
pass-through certificates. The debt securities may be senior or
subordinated, according to the filing.  JSW STEEL LTD , India’s third-largest steelmaker, plans to
sell dollar bonds for the first time in three years and as
rupee-denominated finance costs rise. JSW has applied for credit
ratings before a possible offshore bond sale to help build a 200
billion rupee ($4.3 billion) steel and power plant in West
Bengal, Chief Financial Officer  Seshagiri Rao  said.  ARGENTINA may sell $1 billion of bonds due in 2017, El
Cronista newspaper reported, without saying how it obtained the
information. The government is also planning to offer an
exchange for dollar bonds due in 2011 and 2012, the Buenos
Aires-based publication said.  RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORP., India’s state-owned lender to
power projects, may sell as much as $300 million of bonds in
U.S. dollars, Finance Director  Hari Das Khunteta  said in a
telephone interview. Rural Electrification plans to raise $500
million from debt sales in the year ending March 31, he had said
on April 16.  CZECH REPUBLIC plans to sell as much as $2 billion of
dollar bonds to diversify from koruna and euro debt,  Eduard Janota , former finance minister, said in an interview for Mlada
Fronta Dnes  newspaper .  POTASH CORPORATION OF SASKATCHEWAN INC. , the world’s
largest fertilizer company by capacity, filed a registration
statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for
$2 billion of debt securities.  INDONESIA plans to name three banks to help it sell about
$650 million of Islamic bonds,  Dahlan Siamat , director for
Islamic financing at the finance ministry, said in a telephone
interview in Jakarta. The government sold its first
international Islamic dollar bonds in April 2009.  JORDAN plans to sell about $500 million of bonds, Finance
Minister Mohammad Abu Hammour said in an interview on June 23.
The sale will be denominated in U.S. dollars “as it’s a stable
currency and the Jordanian dinar is pegged to it,” Abu Hammour
said.  URUGUAY may sell as much as $1 billion of bonds in 2011,
including $500 million of dollar-denominated debt,  Carlos Steneri , director of public credit at Uruguay’s Ministry of
Economy and Finance, said June 3 at a Latin Finance conference
in London. The dollar-denominated bonds may have a maturity of
20 years or more, Steneri said.  MALAYSIA plans to raise about $1 billion from its first
sale of conventional dollar bonds in eight years after drawing
bids for five times the Islamic debt it offered, a finance
ministry official said. The government may hire banks including
CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. and HSBC Holdings Plc to arrange the
sale by Sept. 30, said the official, who declined to be named as
the discussions are private. Malaysia raised $1.25 billion from
a Shariah-compliant dollar bond on May 27. Malaysia is rated A3
by Moody’s and A- by S&P.  GHANA is considering selling its second dollar bond in 2011
to tap investor demand as the start-up of oil production boosts
economic growth and narrows the budget deficit, Deputy Finance
Minister  Fifi Kwetey  said. The government was considering a
“no-deal roadshow” to gauge international investors’ appetite,
Kwetey said in a May 26 interview in Abidjan. Ghana sold its
first global bond in 2007, raising $750 million to help fund the
construction of roads and power plants.  ANGOLA received credit ratings from Moody’s, S&P, and Fitch
Ratings that put it on par with Nigeria, Lebanon and Belarus,
and paved the way for a planned sale of international bonds. The
southern African nation’s creditworthiness was rated at B+ by
S&P and Fitch, four levels below investment grade. Moody’s
assigned an equivalent ranking of B1.  MONGOLIA plans to raise $500 million selling bonds in 2010
and the remainder of a planned $1.2 billion program will be sold
according to market conditions,  Batbayar Balgan , director
general of the financial and economic policy department of
Mongolia, said at a forum in Ulan Bator on June 16. The
government scaled back its plans for global bond sales after
Europe’s debt crisis drove up borrowing costs. Investment banks
are advising Mongolia to issue debt with maturities of 5 years
to 10 years, Finance Minister Sangajav Bayartsogt said in a Feb.
9 interview. The securities may yield 8 percent to 11 percent,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Catts  in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  