-- IMF Urges Nations to Reduce Dependence on Credit Ratings, Seeks New Rules
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2010-09-29T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/imf-urges-lower-dependence-on-credit-ratings-seeks-new-rules.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
urged countries to ease their dependence on credit ratings and
to require the firms issuing them to use metrics such as default
probability when ranking sovereign risks.  “Credit ratings can play an important and positive role in
capital markets,” the IMF said in its Global Financial
Stability Report today. “However, the structured finance rating
crisis has exposed some flaws in the system -- rating
overreliance -- and some concerning aspects of the credit rating
agencies’ own rating philosophies.”  Ratings by companies such as Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s
Investors Service came under regulatory scrutiny after subprime
mortgage securities with top grades helped fuel the worst
financial crisis since the Great Depression. Pressure increased
in Europe after Greece’s rating was cut to junk status by S&P’s
in April, adding urgency to plans to bail out the debt-plagued
nation.  “Policy makers should continue their efforts to reduce
their own reliance on credit ratings, and wherever possible
remove or replace references to ratings in laws and regulations,
and in central bank collateral policies,” the IMF said. Two
parts of the IMF report were released today in Washington.  Central banks have been using ratings “rather
mechanistically” in their rules to determine what securities
they accept as collateral in market operations, according to the
report.  Improved Transparency  Since the start of the crisis, rating companies have taken
measures to improve transparency and corporate governance, while
regulators from the U.S. to Australia to Europe have stepped up
oversight of the companies, according to the report.  “Despite efforts so far, conflicts of interest are still
present” because there’s no viable alternative to a model where
ratings are paid by issuers of instruments such as debt, the IMF
said in the report, which examined Fitch Ratings, S&P’s and
 Moody’s .  IMF economists found that the companies’ ability to
differentiate ahead of time between potential defaulters and
non-defaulters was confirmed by data, with all governments that
defaulted since 1975 having below investment-grade ratings a
year before the event.  The report urges firms to calibrate their ratings “to
target credit-risk metrics, such as default probabilities, and
the publication of validation tests against such standards,”
which is not the case now “despite the fact that many ratings
users, including regulators, assume that there are specific and
stable relationships between ratings and these metrics.”  “This would make the message embedded in a rating more
transparent,” the IMF said.  Liquidity Losses  Separately, the report also included proposals to mitigate
liquidity losses in fields such as money market mutual funds.
One recommendation is that a surcharge or insurance premium be
placed on some transactions.  “Market participants should be paying the full cost of
their idiosyncratic liquidity risk,” the IMF said in the
report.  The report emphasized the need for liquidity buffers in the
banking system. It said that final regulations from the  Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision  should take into account the
possibility that the new rules may encourage banks to take on
more risks to maintain profits amid increased holdings of low-
yield liquidity assets.  Additionally, the regulations should apply to non-bank
institutions, not just deposit institutions, in order to
“mitigate the potential buildup of liquidity risks in the less
regulated ‘shadow banking’ system.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sandrine Rastello  in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  