-- Ten-Year Bonds Hold at Six-Week High as Central Bank May Pause on Rates
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2010-09-29T13:02:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/india-bonds-climb-to-six-week-high-as-central-bank-may-pause-on-rate-rises.html
India’s 10-year  bonds  held at their
highest level in six weeks on speculation slowing inflation will
prompt the central bank to pause rate increases.  The securities halted gains after climbing for seven days,
the longest winning streak for a benchmark note since November,
following the cut in debt sales for the fiscal year ending March,
the first time in four years.  Inflation  as measured by wholesale
prices held above 10 percent for four months since March before
slowing to 8.5 percent in August, according to commerce ministry
data.  “The softening of inflation may give room to the central
bank to go slow on increasing rates now,” said  Sanjay Arya , a
treasurer at Bank of Maharashtra in Mumbai. “The cut in the
borrowing program is also encouraging.”  The yield on the 7.8 percent note due May 2020 was little
changed at 7.85 percent, the lowest level since Aug. 16, as of
the 5 p.m. close in Mumbai, according to the central bank’s
trading system. The price was at 99.68 per 100 rupee face amount.  The market will be closed for trading tomorrow for half-
yearly closing of bank accounts.  The finance ministry on Sept. 23 reduced the borrowing
program by 100 billion rupees ($2.2 billion) to 4.47 trillion
rupees for the fiscal year ending in March.  The central bank boosted interest rates for the fifth time
this year on Sept. 17. The  repurchase auction rate , at which it
lends to banks, is at 6 percent.  The cost of one-year interest-rate swaps, or derivative
contracts used to guard against fluctuations in borrowing costs,
increased. The rate, a fixed payment made to receive floating
rates, rose one basis point to 6.48 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  