-- India Locks Down Delhi Commonwealth Games With 100,000 Policemen, Snipers
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   A b h i j i t   R o y   C h o w d h u r y
-- 2010-09-29T09:13:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/india-locks-down-delhi-commonwealth-games-with-100-000-policemen-snipers.html
India began to lock down its
capital ahead of this weekend’s Commonwealth Games opening
ceremony, deploying 100,000 police, roof-top snipers and
helicopters amid warnings of terrorist threats.  While the buildup to the event, in which 7,000 athletes
will compete, has been dominated by reports of filthy rooms at
the games village, a bigger than usual outbreak of dengue fever
and the collapse of footbridge near the main stadium, security
fears spiked after the shooting of two Taiwanese nationals near
an historic mosque.  About 80,000 police along with more than 15,000 members of
the paramilitary security force will guard the sports venues and
travel routes crisscrossing the city of 14 million people,  Rajan Bhagat , a spokesman for  Delhi police  said in an interview
yesterday.  “We have made elaborate security arrangements keeping in
mind all kind of eventuality, including terrorist attacks,”
Bhagat said, adding intelligence agencies hadn’t received any
“specific input” pointing to a threat to the games.  Security forces may be “fully prepared against possible
acts of  catastrophic or mass casualty  terrorism,” yet they seem
“ill-organized to deal with small” episodes of violence meant
to spread panic,  Bahukutumbi Raman , an analyst at the Institute
for Topical Studies in the city of Chennai and the former
counterterrorism director of India’s intelligence agency, said
on his website.  Court Verdict  Adding to police concerns, a court in Uttar Pradesh state
will tomorrow deliver its verdict on the ownership of a
religious site disputed by Hindu and Muslim groups, triggering
another appeal for calm from Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh . At
stake is land in the town of Ayodhya where the destruction of a
mosque in 1992 sparked riots that killed 2,000 people.  The sports event, which Singh’s government had intended as
a show of growing economic power to match Beijing’s Olympics,
will be guarded by commando strike teams at strategic locations,
bomb disposal squads and four rings of security around the
athletes’ village, Bhajat said.  A bombing in March this year in the western city of Pune
killed 17 people, according to the South Asian Terrorism Portal.
The attack was India’s only major terrorist strike since the end
of 2008, when 10 Pakistani gunmen launched a three-day siege of
Mumbai, leaving 166 dead.  ‘Great Concern’  Mike Fennell, chief of the  Commonwealth Games Federation 
said last week that the safety and security of athletes and
officials is of “great concern.” Chinese authorities deployed
110,000 soldiers, police and volunteers to defend the 2008
Olympics in the country’s capital.  Team England has been banned from wearing the country’s
colors outside of games venues after intelligence officials
warned of an increased risk of kidnapping for Britons,
Australians, New Zealanders and Canadians in New Delhi, the
London-based Daily Telegraph reported.  Australia , Canada and the U.K. have all issued travel
advisories to their citizens citing terrorism concerns.
Australia warned targets may include markets, tourist sites,
restaurants and public transport, places that unlike the
sporting venues are difficult to fully secure.  About 90 percent of India’s one million police are low-
ranking constables who “get practically no training other than
physical exercises and polishing of boots,”  Naureen Shah , a U.S.
lawyer and the author of a Human Rights Watch report on the
force, said in an interview last year.  Stars Withdraw  The games village has been transformed into a fortress with
over 1,000 security personnel and armed commandos on guard.
Loudspeaker announcements at markets and metro stations are
urging people to remain vigilant.  This month’s mosque shooting was claimed in an e-mail by
the Indian Mujahideen militant group that also said it was
responsible for 2008 bombings in Indian cities including Delhi
that killed at least 150 people. Home Minister  Palaniappan Chidambaram  said Sept. 24 the attack was “opportunistic” and
may not have been carried out by terrorists.  Athletes and officials from 71 countries and territories,
most former British colonies, will travel in dedicated lanes
escorted by pilot jeeps with armed personnel, said Bhagat.  Australia’s Dani Samuels, the discus world champion, and
English triple-jumper  Phillips Idowu  are among a string of
athletes to withdraw from the event citing health and safety
fears. South Africa’s Caster Semenya pulled out with a back
injury, Associated Press reported yesterday.  Airspace Closed  “All venues have been handed over to the Delhi police,”
the city’s police chief, Y.S. Dadwal, said yesterday after a
review meeting on games security chaired by Chidambaram. “We
have perfectly fool-proof security.”  Special corridors between stadia and the village are being
kept free of normal traffic during daytime, resulting in snarls.
The government will close Delhi’s airspace from 5 p.m. to 10 p.m.
local time on the opening and closing days of the Games, which
run from Oct. 3-14.  “We are ready for any eventuality -- from the ground to
the air,” Bhagat said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bibhudatta Pradhan  in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  