-- Inter, Spurs Hit Four Goals in Champions League Wins; United Tops Valencia
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2010-09-30T00:09:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/inter-spurs-thrash-opponents-in-champions-league-manchester-united-wins.html
Inter Milan and Tottenham each
scored four goals in Champions League soccer victories that
lifted them atop their group, while Manchester United got a late
winner to beat Valencia.  Samuel Eto’o  had a hat trick as defending champion Inter
thrashed visitor Werder Bremen 4-0 and host Tottenham converted
two of its three penalty kicks in a 4-1 rout of FC Twente. The
winners have four points in Group A through two games.  Eto’o netted twice in the first half last night before
setting up  Wesley Sneijder  for Inter’s third. The Cameroon
striker completed the scoring in the 81st minute, lifting his
tally to 11 goals in his last seven games for club and country.  “Eto’o had a brilliant game because the whole team was
very good,” Inter coach  Rafael Benitez  said in comments on
UEFA’s website. “We have many champions and many young,
talented players. The secret is finding the perfect balance.”  FC Copenhagen and Lyon won their second straight games to
take the lead in their groups.  Barcelona, which won its third European Cup title in 2009,
drew 1-1 at Russian champion Rubin Kazan. Both goals were scored
from the penalty spot, by Cristian Noboa for the home team after
half an hour, and by  David Villa  30 minutes later.  Dame Ndoye and Martin Vingard got first-half goals as
Copenhagen took a two-point lead over Barcelona in Group D with
the maximum six points after a 2-0 win at Panathinaikos.  In Group B, Lyon won 3-1 at Hapoel Tel Aviv and Schalke had
a 2-0 home win against Benfica. Lyon has a three-point lead over
Schalke and Benfica after two of six group games.  Hernandez Strikes  Javier Hernandez gave three-time champion Manchester United
the win at Valencia’s Mestalla Stadium in the 85th minute.  Hernandez collected a pass from fellow substitute  Federico Macheda  and smashed a low left-foot shot into the corner for his
first Champions League goal.  The victory over the La Liga leader was only United’s
second in 19 visits to Spanish opponents in European competition.
It also ended Valencia’s 11-match unbeaten run in Europe.  “This is a great result for us as it is not easy to come
here,” United manager  Alex Ferguson  told ITV. “We have a bad
record over a long period in Spain. It was good to win.”  United and Rangers have four points atop Group C after the
Scottish champion beat Bursaspor of Turkey 1-0 in Glasgow. It
was the first group-stage win for Rangers since 2007.  Champions League newcomer Tottenham got its first group-
stage win with four second-half goals at White Hart Lane in
north London.  Spurs midfielder  Rafael van der Vaart  had a first-half
penalty saved, scored the opener and was sent off for two yellow
cards, while  Roman Pavlyuchenko  struck from the penalty spot in
the 50th and 64th minutes.  Gareth Bale  completed the scoring
with five minutes left.  “It was a great performance to win 4-1, you can’t ask for
more than that,” said Tottenham manager  Harry Redknapp . “If
people can’t enjoy that, they can’t enjoy anything.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Baynes  in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  