-- Investors Doubt `Currency War' as Bets Rise for Gains
-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2010-09-29T22:09:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/investors-doubting-currency-war-as-bets-on-real-won-appreciation-climb.html
Investors are stepping up bets that
policy makers from Brazil to South Korea will fail in their
efforts to stem the fastest appreciation of emerging-market
currencies in more than a year.  Options traders are paying the lowest rate in five months
for the right to sell the Brazilian real, South African rand,
South Korean won and Indonesian rupiah rather than buy them,
based on the so-called risk reversal rate. Expectations of
sudden depreciations in the four currencies reached the lowest
level yesterday relative to the yen, euro and pound since a
record decline in May, based on a measure derived from three-
month dollar options known as implied volatility.  Developing nations are bearing the brunt of desires by
governments in the world’s biggest economies to weaken their
currencies as the recovery falters. Brazil’s Finance Minister
 Guido Mantega  warned this week of a global “currency war” as
his government weighs a higher tax on capital inflows. South
Africa central bank Governor  Gill Marcus  said Sept. 22 she’s in
discussions with “many countries to see what the solution is.”  “The risk of capital controls being imposed is
increasing,” said  Bhanu Baweja , the global head of emerging-
market foreign-exchange strategy in London at UBS AG, the
second-largest currency trader. “Central banks in emerging
markets are going to become less tolerant of currency
appreciation as the global trade cycle slows.”  Slower Growth  Developing-nation currencies climbed 6.1 percent against
the dollar this quarter, the biggest advance since the second
quarter of 2009, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Emerging
Markets Currency Index , as investors sought to benefit from the
fastest economic growth rates and reap higher returns than are
available in developed countries.  Speculation is increasing that policy makers will take
steps to slow appreciation as the International Monetary Fund
scales back global economic growth forecasts.  John Lipsky , the
No. 2 official at the IMF, said in the text of a Sept. 27 speech
posted on the Washington-based fund’s website that the second-
half global expansion will fall short of its forecast for a 3.75
percent annual rate. Standard & Poor’s said this week that
growth prospects for the Group of 20 nations are “lackluster.”  Japan broke a six-year policy this month by selling yen,
joining countries across Asia and Latin America that have sought
to temper gains in their currencies against the dollar.  Fund managers are plowing $575 billion a year into
emerging-market assets, 20 percent more than the previous record
set before the global financial crisis, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
said in a Sept. 10 report.  Higher Rates  Benchmark borrowing costs of 10.75 percent in Brazil, 6
percent in South Africa and 6.5 percent in Indonesia compare
with between zero and 0.25 percent in the U.S. and 0.1 percent
in Japan, increasing the allure of developing-nation bonds.  The  IMF  predicts developing economies will grow by 6.8
percent in 2010, more than twice the 2.6 percent pace in the
developed world.  Demand for options granting investors the right to sell the
rand versus those giving the right to buy suggests the gains may
persist. The rand’s three-month risk reversal rate was minus
3.25 percent yesterday, the lowest since April and compared with
minus 5.2 percent at the end of August. When negative, the
measure means demand for options giving the right to sell the
currency is greater than demand for those that allow purchases.  Volatility  Expected fluctuations on the real, rupiah, rand and won
reached the lowest level this week since a record decline on May
4 relative to the outlook for the yen, euro and pound. There was
no difference between the implied volatility of the emerging and
developed nation currencies on Sept. 29, down from 5.6 percent
on May 25, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The real and rand each have risen 35 percent against the
dollar since the beginning of 2008, the biggest advancers in
emerging markets. The currencies are climbing even as central
bankers step up dollar purchases to try to weaken exchange
rates.  Brazil’s central bank bought $5.9 billion in the first 12
days of September, the most in 11 months, according to  Altamir Lopes , the head of the bank’s economic department. South
Africa’s Reserve Bank incurred a loss of 1.05 billion rand ($151
million) in the year through March due to the cost of building
foreign currency reserves to stem rand gains, according to its
annual report released on Sept. 22.  ‘Hot Money’  Most central banks will prefer to increase purchases of
dollars rather than impose capital controls, said  Drausio Giacomelli , the head of emerging markets strategy at Deutsche
Bank AG, the world’s biggest currency trader. Limits on
investing may make it difficult for countries that need to
borrow, he said.  “If you impose capital controls, who’s going to buy your
bonds?” Giacomelli said in a phone interview from New York. “I
would first wait for a surge of speculative hot money to see
that kind of extreme reaction.”  Robin Brooks , a senior foreign exchange strategist at
Goldman Sachs, said in a Sept. 10 report that investor
expectations that emerging-market currencies will keep rallying
may be misplaced.  “Some emerging markets have already resorted to capital
controls, and the risk of further such measures remains,”
Brooks said.  South Africa  South Africa’s governing African National Congress debated
a proposal to tax capital inflows at a conference last week. The
government isn’t going to impose a tax on bond and share
purchases in the near future despite calls from within the
governing party to do so, Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said
in a Sept. 16 interview. Policy makers will first look at the
experience of countries that have made similar moves, including
Brazil, Gordhan said.  The rand has rallied 6.4 percent against the dollar this
year as foreign investors bought 100.8 billion rand of South
African stocks and bonds, the biggest inflow since 1995 when the
country abolished foreign-exchange controls, according to data
as of Sept. 20 from JSE Ltd., the company that runs the nation’s
exchanges. Net purchases for all of 2009 were 102 billion rand,
the data show.  South Africa’s economy expanded an annualized 3.2 percent
in the second quarter, down from 4.6 percent in the first three
months of the year, according to Statistics South Africa.  ‘Closely Watching’  South Korea tightened limits on banks’ holdings of currency
forwards, which are used for speculating on future foreign-
exchange swings or protecting against losses, to 250 percent of
equity capital in June. Since then the won has gained 7 percent
against the dollar. The government will be “closely watching”
the market and will take measures when “exceptional” movements
occur,  Kim Yi Tae , director of foreign exchange at the Finance
Ministry, said on Sept. 9.  The won advanced about 10 percent from this year’s low on
May 26. Export growth may slow in the next quarter as the
strengthening won makes the country’s goods less competitive
abroad,  Cho Hwan Eik , president of the Korea Trade-Investment
Promotion Agency, said in an interview in Seoul on Aug. 31.
Exports helped fuel 7.6 percent economic growth in the first
half of the year, Cho said.  Indonesia’s central bank said in June it will require
investors in one-month bills to hold the securities for at least
four weeks. The rupiah has since appreciated 2.6 percent and is
up 5.3 percent this year. Indonesia’s foreign currency holdings
have jumped 29 percent over the past year to $75 billion.  Mantega, the 61-year-old Brazilian finance minister, said
Sept. 15 the Treasury has “unlimited resources” to step up
dollar purchases and won’t “lose this game.”  Bond Tax  Brazil’s real has stayed within 20 centavos of a two-year
high against the dollar since the government set a 2 percent tax
on foreign purchases of local securities on Oct. 19 last year
and is up 2.3 percent in 2010 after a 33 percent rally in 2009.  Mantega told reporters in Brasilia this week that the
government doesn’t plan to increase the tax on capital inflows
“at this time.” Central bank President  Henrique Meirelles  said
that Brazil was considering higher inflow taxes as other
countries adopt policies to weaken their currencies.  “We should have a balanced global economy,” Meirelles,
65, told reporters in London on Sept. 28. “We can’t have some
countries having their currencies weakened. Evidently, we’re
going to have a few countries paying the price for that.”  The U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation
yesterday prodding China to raise the value of the yuan. The
bill would let American companies petition for punitive tariffs
on Chinese imports to compensate for the effects of what some
lawmakers say is an artificially weak yuan, said Representative
 Chris Van Hollen . The Senate may take up its version of the
legislation after the Nov. 2 election.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said this month
that the Obama administration will use every available tool to
urge China to let its currency rise more quickly. Last week,
Premier  Wen Jiabao  said that a 20 percent jump in the yuan risks
“major” social upheaval and job losses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Webb  in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  