-- Iraq to Offer Tenders to Revamp 250 State Industrial Plants, Official Says
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2010-09-29T06:55:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/iraq-to-offer-tenders-to-revamp-250-state-industrial-plants-official-says.html
Iraq issued tenders to redevelop
more than 10 industrial plants as part of a plan to revamp 250
state-owned facilities through private investors, an industry
ministry official said.  “We now have tenders for more than 10 plants for joint
strategic partnerships on a 15-year production-sharing basis,”
Deputy Minister Mohammed Abdullah Mohammed said in an interview
in Istanbul yesterday. “The tendered plants are mainly
producing cement, petrochemicals, steel and pharmaceuticals.”  Since the U.S.-led invasion that ousted the regime of
 Saddam Hussein  in 2003, the new authorities in Iraq have
encouraged private businesses to participate in modernizing and
strengthening the previously state-dominated economy.  “Our vision is to limit state ownership and turn almost
all the 250 plants to the private sector by 2020,” Mohammed
said. “We want the ministry to become just a regulating and
monitoring authority, and not a holding company running 60
companies.”  The  ministry of industry and minerals  owns a total of 60
companies that run 250 facilities in six sectors; chemical and
petrochemical, pharmaceutical and food, engineering and steel,
textile, construction materials, and industrial utilities and
services, he said.  “All these 250 plants suffer from poor bureaucracy and are
in dire need to be rehabilitated and revamped,” said Mohammed.
“The plants need a lot of investments that the government
cannot provide.”  North Fertilizer  Mohammed said the government has since 2003 signed similar
upgrading contracts for about five facilities, including one
affiliated with the North Fertilizer Co. in Baiji, north of
Baghdad. That contract was awarded in 2009 to an Iraqi company
and Japan’s  Marubeni Corp.   “In one year, its production rate already went up from 20
percent to 50 percent,” he said.  Deals for four cement factories have also been signed,
including a $150 million contract in April with  Lafarge SA , the
world’s biggest cement maker, and local Iraqi company Al-Rowad.  Lafarge’s contract, which also includes the construction of
a 45-megawatt power station for the factory, will raise the
plant’s output to 1.8 million metric tons a year from 300,000
tons within 30 months.  “Iraq faces severe electricity shortages, so we resolved
this problem by requiring every investor to install his own
power station,” Mohammed said.  “These power stations will feed the plant and at the same
time will take a big load off the national grid and could even
distribute power to the local people.”  Iraq, holder of the world’s fourth-largest oil reserves,
seeks foreign investors in all parts of its economy after years
of conflict and international sanctions. Dependent on oil for
most of its income, Iraq held two licensing rounds last year for
oil and gas investments. It has announced a third round for
three natural-gas fields, which Iraq is eager to develop for
fuel to generate electricity and to export.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nayla Razzouk  in Amman at 
 Nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  