-- Ireland's September Unemployment Rate Falls for First Time in Seven Months
-- B y   L o u i s a   F a h y
-- 2010-09-29T12:10:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/ireland-s-september-unemployment-rate-falls-for-first-time-in-seven-months.html
Ireland’s unemployment rate dropped
for the first time in seven months in September as fewer people
in “professional” and “clerical” occupations claimed jobless
benefits.  The rate declined to 13.7 percent from 13.8 percent in
August, the Central Statistics Office in Cork said on its
 website  today. The last decrease was recorded in February.
Seasonally adjusted jobless claims fell by 5,400 to 449,600.  Irish unemployment more than doubled in the last two years
as the country suffered the worst recession in its modern
history. A recovery has been delayed by a property crash that
has seen real-estate values drop by half. All nine occupational
groups showed decreases in the number of people claiming
unemployment benefits during the month, the figures show.  “It’s a bit of good news at last,”  Alan McQuaid , chief
economist at Bloxham Stockbrokers in Dublin, said by telephone.
“The jobless rate has fallen, which psychologically is a good
thing.”  Some of the decline is probably related to people going
back to education and part-time work as schools resumes
following the summer, McQuaid said. He expects unemployment to
peak at 14 percent next year.  Stream Global Services Inc. said in July it will create 425
jobs in Dublin in the next year. Tesco Plc, the U.K.’s largest
supermarket chain, said in July it will invest 113 million euros
($154 million) in new Irish stores next year, creating 748 jobs.  The largest decline was in the professional group, where
claims fell 14 percent, followed by the clerical and secretarial
group, with a 12 percent drop, according to the report.  A 0.4 percent decrease in long-term claimants during the
month “is a welcome surprise,”  Aidan Corcoran , an economist at
Dublin-based securities firm Davy, said in a research note. “We
expected the peak in the long-term unemployment rate to lag the
peak in the general unemployment rate.”  According to a separate report published on Sept. 21,
Ireland’s unemployment rate climbed to 13.6 percent in the
second quarter of the year from 12.9 percent in the first.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Louisa Fahy  in Dublin at 
 lnesbitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  