-- Ireland Said to Weigh Taking Majority Stake in Allied Irish
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2010-09-29T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/ireland-said-to-hold-talks-to-take-a-majority-stake-in-allied-irish-banks.html
The Irish government is in talks
with  Allied Irish Banks Plc  that may result in the state taking
majority ownership of the company, the nation’s second-largest
lender, said two people with direct knowledge of the
discussions.  The talks are centered on whether Allied Irish, 18.7
percent owned by the government, needs to raise more than the
 7.4 billion  euros ($10.1 billion) Ireland’s  financial regulator 
directed it to raise in March, people briefed on the matter said
yesterday. A decision is set to be announced before European
markets open today, one of the people said.  One option under consideration involves the government
partly converting its 3.5 billion euros of preferred shares in
the bank into ordinary shares, according to one of the people.
The government would convert the remainder of its preference
shares if Allied Irish, led by Managing Director  Colm Doherty ,
isn’t successful in raising capital from shareholders, the
person said.  Ireland’s banks are raising capital after bad debts surged
as a decade-long real estate boom collapsed. Finance Minister
 Brian Lenihan  may lay out Allied Irish’s capital needs today,
when the government is due to detail the final cost of bailing
out Anglo Irish Bank Corp. Lenihan has previously said the
government would make up any Allied Irish capital shortfall by
the end of the year if it couldn’t raise enough cash on its own.  Lenihan may announce an injection of between 2 billion
euros and 3 billion euros into Allied Irish, the Financial Times
reported yesterday, without saying where it got the information.
Lenihan told the Dublin parliament yesterday that he would
announce the final cost of bailing out Anglo Irish today.  Alan Kelly, general manager of corporate services at Allied
Irish and  Eoin Dorgan , a Finance Ministry spokesman, declined to
comment.  Neil Whoriskey , a Central Bank spokesman, also declined
to comment.  Allied Irish said on Sept. 10 it will raise 2.5 billion
euros of capital by selling its Polish unit, Bank Zachodni WBK
SA, to Banco Santander SA, Spain’s biggest bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  