-- Irish Banks Hooked on ECB Cure as Lenihan's Financing Fails: Euro Credit
-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e   a n d   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2010-09-29T10:59:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/irish-banks-hooked-on-ecb-cure-as-lenihan-s-financing-fails-euro-credit.html
Irish Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  persuaded lawmakers two years ago to back a guarantee of
the country’s financial system to give banks time to wean
themselves off European Central Bank and government life
support.  Instead, the banks are growing more dependent on the ECB.
The cost of insuring Irish government debt against default has
soared to a record as bond buyers shun Irish lenders, forcing
the Dublin-based parliament to debate extending a guarantee of
all deposits and most bank securities as the original pledge
expires today.  The consequences of adding bank liabilities to Ireland’s 87
billion euros ($118 billion) of sovereign debt “are huge,”
said  Mike Soden , the former chief executive officer of Bank of
Ireland Plc and the author of “Open Dissent,” a book on the
financial crisis. The nation’s borrowing  costs  are surging
because “the markets are much quicker than the thinking power
of the Department of Finance or anybody else,” he said.  The banks’ failure to find alternative funding sources in
the capital markets is stoking investor concern that the state
may be overwhelmed by bailout costs. The banks are “tied to the
sovereign,” Lenihan said in a Sept. 22 speech to a
parliamentary committee.  The extra yield investors  demand  to hold 10-year Irish
bonds over German bunds widened almost ninefold to 451 basis
points since the guarantee was introduced in September 2008.  Euro Peripherals  Credit-default swaps linked to Irish debt fell 7 basis
points to 482 basis points, compared with other so-called euro
peripherals such as Greece at 815 basis points and Portugal at
459 basis points, according to CMA prices. The increase occurred
after Standard & Poor’s said the cost of bailing out  Anglo Irish
Bank Corp.  may exceed 35 billion euros, fueling speculation
Ireland’s government will be forced to choose between repaying
senior bondholders and tackling the region’s largest budget
deficit.  The government introduced a guarantee for all deposits and
most bank securities in 2008 after the bankruptcy of New York-
based investment bank  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  threatened
to destroy the confidence of savers and investors.  Lenihan supplemented that in January with the  Eligible
Liabilities Guarantee , allowing banks to sell bonds with
maturities as long as five years. The original guarantee covered
about 440 billion euros of liabilities when it was introduced,
while 153 billion was guaranteed by the ELG as of June 30,
according to Ireland’s National Treasury Management Agency.  ECB Payments  Ireland-based credit institutions, including international
and domestic companies, owed the ECB 95.1 billion euros as of
Aug. 27, up from 89.5 billion euros a month earlier, according
to the  central bank ’s website.  Those debts will increase “significantly,” Credit Suisse
analysts said in a Sept. 16 report to clients, estimating that
Irish banks already account for about 10 percent of ECB funding.
A report from the ECB is scheduled to be published next month.  “It will show how dependent Irish banks have become not
just on government-guaranteed funding, but also on extremely
generous provisions from the ECB,” said Credit Suisse analysts,
including  Christel Aranda-Hassel  and  Neville Hill . “If the ECB
were to tighten liquidity support significantly next year, that
could be extremely problematic for the banks and market concern
for the financial sector would rapidly spread to the
sovereign.”  Ireland’s debt is the second worst-performing globally this
month, handing investors losses of 4.43 percent, compared with a
5.1 percent decline in Portuguese bonds, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies.  ‘Entirely Unrealistic’  “The reality is that in a small country like Ireland, it
is entirely unrealistic to think one can detach the banking
system from the sovereign,” Lenihan said at the parliamentary
meeting on Sept. 22. “The difficulty with the guarantee is that
the vulnerability of the banks becomes apparent.”  While some Irish lenders have been selling debt securities
in private sales this year, no government-guaranteed lender has
sold a benchmark bond since April, when  Irish Life & Permanent
Plc  borrowed 1.25 billion euros for three years.  EBS Building Society, the biggest-customer owned lender,
said last week it has 3.5 billion euros of net collateral
available which could be used to tap the ECB if markets remained
closed. Davy, a Dublin-based securities firm, estimated Sept. 7
that Irish banks have 83 billion euros of unpledged collateral.  Property Loans  Irish banks had about 26 billion euros of government-
guaranteed debt securities to roll over in September, Davy
analysts said. They don’t have to refinance all that as sales of
souring real-estate loans to the National Asset Management
Agency reduce the amount of assets lenders need to fund.  Concern about refinancing challenges are “overdone”
because the government will cover any shortfalls,  John Corrigan ,
chief executive officer of the National Treasury Management
Agency,  said on Sept. 24.  Parliament will vote today on extending the Eligible
Liabilities Guarantee to include short-term corporate and
interbank deposits. That guarantee, which is due to end Dec. 31,
may have to be extended further, according to Credit Suisse.  “The problems with Ireland’s banking sector and the
associated risks it poses to the sovereign are likely to
continue for some time,” analysts at the Zurich-based bank
said. “That should keep spreads wide and volatile.”  The euro has weakened by 5 percent against the dollar this
year to $1.3615 on concern the debt crisis may rupture the
common currency area. It may fall to $1.28 by the end of the
year, according to the median estimate of 40 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg.  Underperforming Market  Ireland’s benchmark  ISEQ  Index has fallen 11 percent this
year, compared with a 3 percent gain for the Stoxx Europe 600
Index. Bank of Ireland has dropped 37 percent this year and
Allied Irish Banks Plc has dropped 58 percent.  “The banks will roll their large maturities during the
fourth quarter with the help of the ECB, and the government has
a buffer of about 20 billion euros,” Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
Chief European Economist  Erik Nielsen  said in a Sept. 26 note to
clients. “But the government urgently needs to start another
campaign, like the one late last year, to make investors fall
back in love with them, if that’s possible.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dara Doyle  in Dublin at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net ;
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  