-- Irish Banker, Felled by ‘Adult’ Surfing, Seeks Meltdown Answers
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2010-09-29T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/irish-banker-soden-felled-by-adult-surfing-seeks-crisis-answers-books.html
If  Mike Soden  had his way, the
title of his book on Ireland’s financial crisis would pivot on a
self-mocking joke: “Big Bust.” He is, after all, the  Bank of
Ireland Plc  chief executive officer who resigned after viewing 
“adult” websites on his office computer.  Six years and one meltdown later, Soden has learned to
laugh at his embarrassing infringement of company policy.  “What I’m trying to do is trivialize something that hurt
my career enormously,” says Soden, 63, wearing a grey polo
shirt during an interview in his Dublin home, two doors down
from Bank of Ireland’s new headquarters along the Grand Canal.  Soden, who was appointed yesterday to the country’s central
bank commission, has spent much of his time of late monitoring
the collapse of Ireland’s financial system. The result is a book
just released under a more staid title chosen by his publisher,
“Open Dissent.” It probes the causes of the meltdown and how
the republic might extricate itself.  Sitting at a steel-and-glass table in his conservatory-
style kitchen, Soden discussed taxpayer injections of capital
into  Anglo Irish Bank Corp. ; Ireland’s possible exit from the
European Union; and the government’s National Asset Management
Agency, the so-called bad bank set up to purge lenders’ souring
real-estate loans.  Brennan: Would Bank of Ireland be in a better place today
had you not stepped down?  Question of Reputation  Soden: I don’t know. I wasn’t there to make the decisions.
I’m not prepared to take potential blame, nor credit.  I walked out to protect the reputation of the bank. Most
people said, “Oh, you looked at something.” I said, “Sure I
did.” I acknowledged that.  Fast forward. The same people who accepted my resignation
oversaw the destruction of reputation not only of the bank, but
of the country, and they stayed on.  Brennan: What went wrong?  Soden: I can’t believe it took 221 years to build up  a
balance sheet of 100 billion euros  and only four years to make
it 200 billion euros.  In every bank I’ve ever been in, there’s been a battle
between the people who want to do business and the guys who are
meant to protect the balance sheet. The sales people won in the
end. That’s why  Anglo Irish Bank  collapsed and why Bank of
Ireland has had all its problems.  Allied Irish Banks  are in the
same situation.  Wrong Mindset?  Brennan: Is the National Asset Management Agency working?  Soden:  NAMA  was formed for three reasons: to re-establish
the banks; to put liquidity into the business sector; and,
through that, to help the economy to recover. A year later,
which one of those has even started? NAMA has the huge burden of
saving the country economically. Unfortunately, they have the
mindset of an investor, not a trader.  Brennan: What do you mean?  Soden: When there’s no market and NAMA can pay whatever
price they like for assets, the investor mindset sets in and
says, “The lower we pay -- even if it requires additional
capitalization of the banks from the government -- the better we
will look in years to come.” That’s not a satisfactory process.
You create liquidity in the market by buying and selling.  Brennan: Is Ireland’s borrowing sustainable?  Soden: We can’t borrow our way out of problems. But we can
earn our way out, so we don’t burden the next generation.  Brennan: How should Ireland cut the deficit?  Soden: The entitlement mindset that pervades our society
has to be readdressed. I’m sorry, you may be entitled to be
treated with dignity and respect, but you are not entitled to
money that we don’t have, because it will stop at some point.  Voters and Bailouts  Brennan: Isn’t it hard for voters to stomach more cuts,
given the salaries at banks that have been bailed out?  Soden: Anyone who was on the executive committee of the
banks should have been removed -- bar none. People say it’s easy
to say so in hindsight. But people in senior positions who get
paid a lot of money are paid for foresight. They must know they
can only be judged with hindsight.  Brennan: What do you make of the debate that Ireland should
default on Anglo Irish bonds to cut the cost of the bailout?  Soden: If you default, you will have to wait 15 to 20 years
before you can touch the capital markets again. I don’t believe
for one instant that anyone in the country, starting with the
prime minister and finance minister, would want us to default.  Bye-Bye, EU  Brennan: Your book mentions the possibility of Ireland
leaving the EU. Are you serious?  Soden: It’s an extreme solution, but we’ve got to look at
our alternatives. Are we simply in the hands of Europe?  Ireland’s emigrants chose America before they ever did
Europe. Hawaii was the 50th state, Alaska was the 49th. If we
were given the opportunity, could we become the 51st state?  “Open Dissent: An Uncompromising View of the Financial
Crisis” is published by  Blackhall  (193 pages, 16.99 euros)  ( Joe Brennan  writes for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own. This interview was adapted from a longer
conversation.)  To contact the reporter on the story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net . 