-- Israel Flotilla Raid Criticized in UN Report That U.S. Calls `Unbalanced'
-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 2010-09-29T15:41:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/israel-flotilla-raid-criticized-in-un-report-that-u-s-calls-unbalanced-.html
The U.S. cast the only vote today
against the endorsement by the United Nations Human Rights
Council of a report that said Israel’s May 31 effort to stop a
flotilla of ships from reaching the Gaza Strip was illegal.  The  Human Rights Council  voted 30 to 1, with 15
abstentions, to adopt a resolution sponsored by Pakistan. The
text “welcomes” the report by a three-person panel appointed
by the Geneva-based council, “endorses the conclusions” and
recommends that the UN General Assembly consider further action.  “We are concerned by the report’s unbalanced language,
tone and conclusions,” said Eileen Chamberlain, the U.S.
ambassador to the UN in Geneva. “We urge that this report not
be used for actions that could disrupt the direct Israeli-
Palestinian talks now under way or actions that could make it
harder for Israel and Turkey to move beyond the recent strains
in their historically strong bilateral relationship.”  The raid on the ship Mavi Marmara constituted “grave
violations of human rights law and international humanitarian
law,” according to the  report . The findings were prepared by
Karl Hudson-Phillips, a former attorney general of Trinidad and
Tobago;  Desmond de Silva , former chief prosecutor of the UN-
backed Special Court for Sierra Leone; and Mary Shanthi Dairiam,
a Malaysian women’s rights activist.  “Lethal force was employed by the Israeli soldiers in a
widespread and arbitrary manner which caused an unnecessarily
large number of persons to be killed or seriously injured,” the
report said. “Less extreme means could have been employed in
nearly all instances of the Israeli operation, since there was
no imminent threat to soldiers.”  ‘Biased’ Report  Israel’s Foreign Ministry called the report “as biased and
as one-sided as the body that has produced it,” and said its
own inquiries had sufficiently investigated the raid.  Israel has said that in the confrontation, which followed
numerous warnings for the ships to change course, its soldiers
were attacked with knives and clubs after boarding the Mavi
Marmara, one of the six vessels in the flotilla, and seven were
wounded, including by gunfire after volunteers aboard the ship
managed to grab Israeli firearms.  Activists have said they threw the firearms into the sea.
There was no violence on the other five ships.  The Israeli raid on vessels attempting to breach a naval
blockade of the Hamas-controlled Gaza Strip left nine Turkish
citizens dead, generated international criticism and led Turkey
to suspend diplomatic and security cooperation. Turkey was once
Israel’s closest ally in the region.  In a speech at the UN last week, Turkish President  Abdullah Gul  repeated his country’s demand for an apology from Israel
over the incident, while saying the two countries remain
“friends.”  Hamas’s charter calls for the destruction of the Jewish
state. Hamas leaders say they will renounce violence when Israel
withdraws from territory occupied in 1967 and allows
Palestinians to return to areas in Israel from which they fled
in 1948.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Varner  at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  