-- IStar Downgraded by Fitch as Real Estate Lender Faces `Inevitable Default'
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2010-09-29T20:55:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/istar-downgraded-by-fitch-as-real-estate-lender-faces-inevitable-default-.html
IStar Financial Inc. , the
commercial real estate lender trying to restructure some of its
$8.6 billion of debt, faces “inevitable default,” Fitch
Ratings said today in a statement.  Fitch cut the New York-based company to C from CC, citing
iStar’s “substantial amount of  debt ” coming due in the second
quarter of 2011.  IStar’s risk of default has increased as its borrowers
struggled to repay loans as the worst economic crisis since the
Great Depression cut commercial property values. The company has
more than $2.2 billion of debt maturing during the three months
ended June 30, 2011 and must negotiate a “material reduction in
terms to avert bankruptcy,” Fitch said in the statement.  “Absent a significant improvement in commercial real
estate fundamentals,” resulting in iStar receiving loan
repayments from its borrowers, “it is inevitable that the
company will need to effect a coercive debt exchange with its
second lien noteholders to avoid bankruptcy,” Fitch said.  The grading company’s definition of default due to a
coercive debt exchange isn’t considered “a default under any of
our loan agreements,”  Andrew Backman , a senior vice president
of investor relations for iStar, wrote in an e-mail. “We have
ample near-term liquidity and we continue to assess all of our
various options to re-align our asset and liability
maturities.”  Non-Performing Loans  IStar had about $3 billion of non-performing loans as of
June 30 and reported an $83.4 million second-quarter loss,
excluding income from property sales, the company said Aug. 3 in
a statement.  “Challenging property-level fundamentals, combined with
the decline in commercial real estate values over the past
several years, have decreased the ability of iStar’s borrowers
to repay loans,” Fitch said.  The company’s $501.7 million of 8.625 percent notes due in
2013 rose 0.6 cent to 81.1 cents on the dollar at 3:50 p.m. in
New York, according to Trace, the bond price reporting system of
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  IStar rose 1 cent to $3.12 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The stock has fallen 58 percent
since reaching $7.43 on May 5.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tim Catts  in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 