-- J&J Recall No Secret to U.S. Regulators Who Moved Too Slow, Official Says
-- B y   E l l e n   G i b s o n
-- 2010-09-30T20:34:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/j-j-to-ship-children-s-medicines-next-week-ceo-weldon-says.html
Regulators moved too slowly to
oversee a  Johnson & Johnson  recall of over-the-counter
painkillers last year that wasn’t done under U.S. rules, said
 Joshua Sharfstein , deputy commissioner of the Food and Drug
Administration.  Sharfstein, testifying today before a congressional
committee probing the recall, said his agency was informed by
the New Brunswick, New Jersey-based company in April 2009 that a
recall was occurring. The agency didn’t respond by asking for an
official recall until July, and that wasn’t accomplished until
August 2009, Sharfstein said.  J&J’s withdrawal of Motrin tablets shipped to stores and
purchased by consultants hired by the company was termed a
“phantom recall,” by  Representative Edolphus Towns , a New York
Democrat and chairman of the House  Committee on Oversight and
Government Reform. The Motrin  incident came to light when
lawmakers began probing J&J’s recall this spring of 40
children’s over-the-counter  liquid drugs  made by its McNeil
Consumer Healthcare unit.  “This took too long,” Sharfstein testified today about
the Motrin incident. J&J’s actions “raise important questions
about the current voluntary recall system.”  Under existing FDA regulations, companies can’t be ordered
to remove a product from the market. If they do, though, the
agency must oversee the recall.  Towns has repeatedly criticized J&J for the way its McNeil
unit withdrew the defective Motrin tablets in 2009.  Service Station Sales  The tablets were distributed to gasoline service stations
and after the company learned the medicine wasn’t dissolving
quickly enough, McNeil hired contractors to collect the
remaining tablets from stores, according to testimony and
internal McNeil documents obtained by the committee.  The FDA wasn’t informed in advance that the company’s
product retrievals were so widespread and that the consultants
buying the medicines would pose as consumers, Sharfstein said at
the hearing.  J&J executives have said the FDA knew what actions the
company was taking to get the defective Motrin off the market, a
point Chief Executive Office  Bill Weldon  reiterated in his
testimony earlier today.  “McNeil informed FDA officials about McNeil’s plans for an
in-store assessment and then a retrieval of any of the 8-caplet
Motrin vials that remained available for sale,” Weldon said.  Still, Weldon said, the Motrin incident was “not a model
for how I would like to see Johnson & Johnson companies approach
problems. McNeil should have handled things differently.”  J&J’s shares declined 35 cents, or less than 1 percent, to
$61.96 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading .
The company’s shares have fallen 3.8 percent this year.  Children’s Medicines  Weldon also testified about the recall of the children’s
medicines that were produced at the company’s Fort Washington,
Pennsylvania, plant. He said the company will ship 1 million
bottles of one of the withdrawn medicines starting Oct. 4 and
expects to distribute 4 million bottles of the liquid product in
the U.S. by the end of the year.  The product being reintroduced to the market is grape-
flavored liquid Children’s Tylenol produced at McNeil’s plant in
Guelph, Ontario, said  Bill Price , a J&J spokesman.  J&J is investing more than $100 million in equipment and
facilities to improve its manufacturing quality, he said.  Quality Improvements  “Our efforts to assess and improve the quality issues we
found at McNeil began many months ago,” Weldon said. “We have
made considerable progress, and we are working quickly to
resolve any outstanding issues and resume production of our
children’s liquid products.”  Children’s Motrin, Children’s Tylenol and Infants’ Tylenol
had a combined $253 million in sales in 2009, according to data
from  IMS Health Inc. , a Norwalk, Connecticut-based research
company. With most of the product having been cleared from
shelves, sales of Children’s Motrin were down 88 percent in May
through August of this year compared with the same period last
year, while sales of Infants’ Tylenol plummeted 99 percent, IMS
Health data showed.  “I know that we let the public down,” Weldon said. “We
did not maintain our high quality standards, and as a result,
children do not have access to our important medicines.”  Representative  Darrell Issa  of California, the top
Republican on the panel, has asked the Health and Human Services
Department’s Inspector General to look into the FDA’s contention
that it wasn’t told by J&J about the Motrin recall program.  The agency “attempted to mislead Congress by omitting key
facts,” Issa said in a letter to the inspector general, whose
office looks into wrongdoing in government programs,  At one point during the hearing, Issa dropped a 4-inch
thick binder onto his desk, saying it was a record of all the
times the FDA had inspected J&J’s Fort Washington plant without
shutting it down.  This is the “record of failure,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ellen Gibson  in New York at 
 egibson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 