-- Jakarta Stocks Reaching Peak Valuation After Record Rally, Citigroup Says
-- B y   S h i y i n   C h e n
-- 2010-09-29T02:23:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/jakarta-index-may-rise-to-3-700-on-buying-momentum-citigroup.html
Indonesia’s  Jakarta Composite Index 
may be reaching a peak in its valuations with “buying
momentum” likely to lift the measure by a further 6.5 percent
before share prices decline, according to Citigroup Inc.  The gauge may rise to 3,700 in the short-term based on an
estimated valuation of two standard deviations above its average
over the past six years, analysts led by  Alex Wreksoremboko  said
in a report yesterday. A “more sustainable” medium-term
valuation would be one standard deviation higher at about 14
times estimated earnings, which translates into a level of 3,400
for the benchmark, according to the brokerage.  The Jakarta Composite yesterday climbed 0.1 percent to a
record high of 3,472.71. The index’s rally of 37 percent this
year means that Indonesia, the best performer among the 15
largest Asia-Pacific markets, is now  valued  at about 14.2 times
estimated earnings for 2011, according to Citigroup estimates.  “Whilst the Indonesia market did trade at this kind of
valuation before the 1998 Asian financial crisis, the market is
now in unchartered territory,” the analyst said. “We would
argue that the Jakarta Composite Index is approaching peak
valuation and may exhibit short-term weakness.”  Still, the Indonesian stock index may climb over the next
three to six months before valuations become “very
challenging,” mirroring the performance of Brazil’s  Bovespa
index  in the two years following the 2006 presidential elections,
according to the report.  Indonesia, Brazil  “In addition to the high degree of similarity between the
Brazilian and Indonesia economies, Indonesia in 2010 is at a
very similar stage of political development to Brazil in 2007 to
2008,” before the global financial crisis, Wreksoremboko said.  The Bovespa climbed as much as 78 percent between October
2006, when  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  was re-elected to a second
term as president, and May 2008, when it reached its peak. The
measure then fell as much as 60 percent to a low in October that
year.  In Indonesia, the Jakarta Composite has rallied 67 percent
since President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  won his second term in
July last year.  “Superimposing the Jakarta Composite against the  Bovespa 
with the announcement of the election results as the point of
intersection returns a very interesting result,” the Citigroup
analyst said. “The two charts showed a high degree of
correlation” of around 90 percent.  The similarities between the two indexes also extend to the
highs and lows for their  valuations , with both measures peaking
at around 2 standard deviations above their average over the
past six years, according to Citigroup. This may imply that the
Indonesian market’s multiple may climb near 15.7 times estimated
earnings, the analyst said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  