-- Japanese Bonds Complete Second Quarterly Gain as Industrial Output Falls
-- B y   Y a s u h i k o   S e k i
-- 2010-09-30T06:39:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/japan-bonds-may-snap-winning-streak-as-yields-near-month-low-deter-buyers.html
Japanese  bonds  completed a second-
quarterly gain after a government report showed industrial
production unexpectedly declined last month, adding to signs the
export-led recovery is slowing.  Benchmark  bonds advanced for a fifth month amid speculation
the central bank will announce further steps to ease monetary
policy as a strengthening yen damps economic growth. The Bank of
Japan will increase its 30-trillion yen ($360 billion) credit
program at its next meeting on Oct. 4-5 to encourage bank
lending and reduce demand for yen, according to a Bloomberg News
survey of economists.  “An unabated appreciation of the yen will strike a more
serious blow to the Japanese economy,” said  Hirokata Kusaba , a
senior economist in Tokyo at Mizuho Research Institute Ltd., a
unit of Japan’s second-largest bank. “Speculation for
additional monetary easing will linger under such circumstances,
rendering support for the debt market.”  The yield on the benchmark 10-year bond fell 15.5 basis
points this quarter to 0.93 percent as of 3:37 p.m. in Tokyo at
Japan Bond Trading Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt
broker. The yield on the 1 percent security due September 2020
increased one basis point today and the price dropped 0.092 yen
to 100.638 yen.  Ten-year bond futures for December delivery rose 0.02 today
to 143.42 at the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  Production Falls  Factory   output  slid 0.3 percent from July, when it declined
0.2 percent, the Trade Ministry said today in Tokyo. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News forecast a 1.1 percent gain.  The BOJ’s Tankan survey released yesterday showed an index
of confidence among large manufacturers is expected to fall to
minus 1 in December, after rising for the past six quarters.  “Downside risks to Japan’s economy are growing,” said
 Kiichi Murashima , chief economist at Citigroup Global Markets
Japan Inc. in Tokyo. “We don’t expect a double-dip recession,
but the economy may temporarily shrink in the fourth quarter.”  The Bank of Japan may cut its assessment of the economic
outlook at a meeting scheduled for Oct. 28, the Yomiuri
newspaper reported today, without citing anyone.  The central bank may cut its forecast for fiscal 2010
growth in real gross domestic product to between 2 percent and
2.5 percent, compared with its current 2.6 percent estimate,
Yomiuri said. The central bank may decide on additional monetary
easing steps at a policy meeting on Oct. 5, the report said.  Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  said on Sept. 27 the BOJ is
prepared to ease monetary policy further should a stronger yen
threaten the economy.  Seven-Year Low  Ten-year yields dropped to 0.895 percent on Aug. 25, the
the lowest since 2003, as the yen advanced to a 15-year high,
hurting the overseas competitiveness of Japanese companies.  “The combination of deteriorating economic data and a
harmful rise of the yen means that the BOJ should take action,”
said  Takeshi Minami , chief economist at Norinchukin Research
Institute Co. in Tokyo.  “If the BOJ steps deeply into easing
beyond the market’s expectation, 10-year yields may fall below
0.8 percent.”  Ten-year bonds pared this quarter’s gains today as yields
near a five-week low deterred some buyers.  “Wariness is building about the rapid-paced rally of
late,” said  Akihiko Inoue , chief strategist in Tokyo at Mizuho
Investors Securities Co., a unit of Japan’s third-largest
banking group. “A pause in Treasury yield declines will also
induce selling of Japanese government bonds.”  The yield on 10-year Treasury notes rose four basis points
yesterday after Philadelphia Federal Reserve President  Charles Plosser  said he opposes more monetary expansion to support the
economy, in part because he sees “little risk” of deflation.  Japanese bonds have handed investors a return of 1.2
percent from June 30 through yesterday, after gaining 2.3
percent the previous quarter, according to an index compiled by
Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit. The securities have
returned 3.4 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yasuhiko Seki  in Tokyo at 
 Yseki5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  