-- Japanese Stocks Gain on Hope Bank of Japan Will Boost Economy After Tankan
-- B y   A k i k o   I k e d a
-- 2010-09-29T07:16:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/japanese-stocks-rise-on-yen-weakness-metals-shinsei-elpida-memory-gain.html
Japanese  stocks  rose on speculation
the Bank of Japan will act to boost the economy after a report
this morning showed the country’s largest manufacturers forecast
business will deteriorate.  Canon Inc., the world’s largest camera maker, climbed 1.7
percent. Nissan Motor Co., Japan’s third-largest carmaker,
jumped 2.6 percent.  Mitsubishi Corp. , which gets about half its
sales from commodities, gained 1.8 percent on higher metal and
oil prices. Shinsei Bank Ltd., a lender, surged 6.9 percent
after the company raised its profit target. While the Bank of
Japan’s quarterly Tankan survey showed business sentiment rose
in September, pessimists will outnumber optimists by yearend.  “The Tankan survey showed the current situation is not bad,
but there are still uncertainties about the outlook,” said
 Naoki Fujiwara , a fund manager in Tokyo who helps oversee $6
billion at Shinkin Asset Management Co. “That increased
expectations for additional monetary-easing measures and they’re
supporting the market. People expect the economy will improve if
some measures are taken.”  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 0.7 percent to 9,559.38
at the 3 p.m. close of trading in Tokyo, paring a gain of 1.1
percent. The broader  Topix  index climbed 0.5 percent to 846.97,
with almost five times as many shares advancing as declining.  The Topix has fallen 6.7 percent this year, compared with
gains of 2.9 percent for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index in the
U.S. and 3.3 percent for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Equities in
the Japanese benchmark are valued at 15.1 times estimated
 earnings  on average, compared with 13.8 times for the S&P 500
and 12 times for the Stoxx 600.  Yen, Tankan  Stocks fluctuated earlier as swings in the yen influenced
the outlook for export earnings. The Tankan index climbed 7
points in September to 8, the Bank of Japan said today.
Confidence will fall to minus 1 in December, the report said, as
a strengthening currency threatens the nation’s recovery.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. “expects the BOJ to ease further
because of deterioration in the real economy,” even though
corporate-financing conditions aren’t tight, the brokerage said
in a report by  Chiwoong Lee , a senior economist.  Canon climbed 1.7 percent to 3,945 yen and Sony Corp., an
electronics maker, gained 2 percent to 2,645 yen. Nissan jumped
2.6 percent to 744 yen. More than half of their revenue derives
from overseas. They were the  biggest supports  for the Topix,
followed by Mitsubishi.  The yen is headed for the strongest annual average level
against the dollar since currencies began trading freely in 1971,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg and based on each day’s
close. That has eroded the value of overseas income at Japanese
companies when converted into their home currency.  ‘Worsened Outlook’  “People expect the worsened outlook for large
manufacturers will encourage the Bank of Japan to take
additional monetary-easing measures,” said  Takashi Ushio , head
of investment at Marusan Securities Co. in Tokyo. “Additional
measures should reduce pressure on the yen, and that’s positive
for Japanese stocks.”  Mitsubishi  climbed 1.8 percent to 2,018 yen. JX Holdings
Inc., Japan’s largest copper producer, jumped 3.4 percent to 486
yen. Nippon Yusen K.K., the country’s biggest shipping line by
sales, rallied 2.1 percent to 346 yen.  The London Metal Exchange Index of prices for six
industrial metals including copper and aluminum advanced 0.6
percent yesterday. Crude oil for November delivery rose as much
as 0.6 percent to $76.62 a barrel in electronic trading in New
York today. The  Baltic Dry Index  of commodity-shipping rates
jumped 2.2 percent yesterday.  Tokyo Electric Plunges  “Expectations that monetary easing will help improve the
economy led to gains in commodity-related stocks,” said  Junichi Misawa , head of equity investment at Tokyo-based STB Asset
Management Co., which oversees about $14 billion.  Shinsei Bank climbed the most in the  Nikkei 225  after the
company raised its net income target for the year ending March
2012 to 51 billion yen ($611 million) from 32 billion yen. The
stock surged 6.9 percent to 62 yen.  Elpida Memory Inc. , Japan’s sole maker of computer-memory
chips, soared 8.1 percent to 985 yen. The company said it will
start mass producing a new dynamic-random-access-memory chip in
December, confirming a report in the Nikkei newspaper.  Tokyo Electric Power Co. , Asia’s biggest power company,
tumbled 7.8 percent to 2,105 yen, the  largest drop  in the Nikkei
225. The company may sell as much as 600 billion yen in new
shares to raise funds to build nuclear power plants and expand
overseas, the Nikkei newspaper reported, without citing anyone.
Tokyo Electric said after the market closed that it plans to
raise as much as 555 billion yen.  “It was unexpected that the company is in need of such a
large-scale capital investment,” Shinkin’s Fujiwara said.
“People are getting worried other companies will follow.”  Power and gas utilities fell the most among the Topix’s 33
industry groups. Tokyo Electric was the most-active stock by
value in Japan.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Akiko Ikeda  in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net . 