-- Japanese, Australian Stock-Index Futures Decline on European Debt Concern
-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a
-- 2010-09-29T23:43:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/japanese-australian-stock-index-futures-decline-on-european-debt-concern.html
Japanese and Australian  stock 
 futures  fell amid concern that Europe’s debt crisis will worsen
and slow a recovery of the global economy.  American depositary receipts of Mizuho Financial Group Inc.,
Japan’s third-biggest bank by market value, fell 1 percent from
the closing share price in Tokyo and those of Westpac Banking
Corp., Australia’s No. 2 lender by value, slid 0.4 percent from
the closing share price in Sydney. U.S.-traded securities of
Nintendo Co., the world’s largest maker of portable video-game
machines, plunged 4.7 percent from the closing share price in
Japan after the company cut its profit forecast and dividend.  “Investors are likely to be in a wait-and-see mood,” said
 Mitsushige Akino , who oversees about $450 million in assets in
Tokyo at Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co. “It’s the end of
the month today.”  Futures on Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average expiring in
December closed at 9,530 in Chicago yesterday, compared with
9,560 in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 9,530
in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX
200 Index fell 0.1 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index
slid 0.2 percent in Wellington.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  were little
changed. The index fell 0.3 percent yesterday in New York,
trimming its best September rally since 1939. U.S. banks
followed European lenders lower on concern the region’s most-
indebted nations will struggle to finance budget deficits.  Protests in Europe  Spain’s top credit rating at Moody’s Investors Service
probably will be cut, possibly this week, according to investors
managing about $700 billion. Ireland will today announce the
cost of bailing out Anglo Irish Bank Corp.  More than 100,000 protesters descended on Brussels before a
meeting between union members and European Commission President
 Jose Barroso , organizers said. Spanish workers disrupted
transportation and television broadcasts in the first general
strike in eight years. In Athens, rail, communications and port
workers staged strikes. Police in Dublin made an arrest after a
truck damaged the front gates of the parliament building.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  has risen 5.8 percent this year
on speculation corporate earnings growth will overcome Europe’s
debt crisis, China’s steps to curb property prices and concern
about the pace of U.S. economic growth. Stocks in the index
trade at 14.3 times estimated earnings on average, compared with
13.8 times for the S&P 500 and 12 times for the  Stoxx Europe 600
Index .  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Norie Kuboyama  in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net . 