-- JPMorgan Asks Judges to Delay Rulings as It Reviews Foreclosure Documents
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-09-30T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/jpmorgan-asks-judges-to-delay-rulings-in-foreclosures-update1-.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. , the third-
biggest U.S. mortgage servicer, said it’s asking courts to delay
judgments in pending foreclosure cases while the bank reviews
and possibly resubmits statements.  JPMorgan began to “systematically re-examine” foreclosure
filings after learning that employees may have signed affidavits
without personally reviewing underlying records, relying instead
on other personnel, said  Thomas Kelly , a spokesman for the New
York-based firm. The review includes at least 56,000 loans and
covers 23 U.S. states in which courts oversee the foreclosure
process, a person briefed on the matter said.  “We have requested that the courts not enter judgments in
pending matters until we complete our review,” Kelly said
yesterday. The review is expected to be finished in “a few
weeks,” he said.  Attorneys general in at least five states are investigating
borrowers’ claims that some of the nation’s largest home lenders
and loan servicers are making misstatements in foreclosures.
Ally Financial Inc. said last week it found a “technical”
deficiency in the foreclosure process at its GMAC Mortgage unit
allowing employees to sign documents without a notary present or
with information they didn’t personally know was true.  Misstatements may stall foreclosures in some states and
exacerbate losses for bonds backed by home loans, Fitch Ratings
said in a statement yesterday. Fitch is reviewing how servicers
handle foreclosures and may downgrade them if they aren’t taking
adequate steps to avoid lapses,  Diane Pendley , a managing
director at the ratings company, said in the statement.  JPMorgan Deposition  “Any servicer with a significant portion of their
portfolio in judicial foreclosure states will be either directly
or indirectly impacted by the attention focused on this
problem,” she said.  In a May 17 deposition, a Chase Home Finance operation
supervisor said she was among eight managers who together sign
about 18,000 documents a month, according to a transcript of her
comments provided by lawyers for a Palm Beach County, Florida,
homeowner. Asked how documents were prepared for signature, the
supervisor said she relied on other people at the firm.  Moody’s Investors Service yesterday placed Chase Home
Finance and JPMorgan Chase Bank’s servicer-quality ratings on
review for possible downgrade, citing “irregularities in
Chase’s foreclosure process that have recently come to light.”  Resubmitting Affidavits  “These incidents could result in delayed foreclosures and
longer REO timelines,” Moody’s analysts  Linda Stesney  and
Francis Wissman wrote in a report, using an acronym that refers
to a bank’s repossession of property. “The timelines may be
extended should certain jurisdictions require restarting the
foreclosure process of loans already in foreclosure.”  JPMorgan believes the accuracy of statements about loans
wasn’t affected, Kelly said. The bank will resubmit affidavits
where it is “appropriate,” and it asked attorneys to review
its process for preparing and signing affidavits, he said.  As of June 30, JPMorgan serviced $1.35 trillion of U.S.
home mortgages, or almost 13 percent of the market, according to
industry newsletter Inside Mortgage Finance. The other servicers
in the top five are Bank of America Corp., Wells Fargo & Co.,
Citigroup Inc. and Ally.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dakin Campbell  in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alec McCabe at 
 amccabe@bloomberg.net . 