-- Juventus Join Tottenham in Chase for Everton's Pienaar: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2010-09-29T10:10:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/juventus-join-tottenham-in-chase-for-everton-s-pienaar-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  Juventus Chasing Pienaar  Juventus has joined Tottenham in the race to sign Everton
midfielder Steven Pienaar, the  Daily Mail  reported.  The 28-year-old South African will be out of contract next
summer and will be allowed to talk to foreign clubs from January
1, the paper said.  Broughton Turns Down Job  Liverpool chairman and British Airways board member Martin
Broughton turned down an opportunity to become the new chairman
of the Football Association, the  Guardian  reported.  “When it comes to football, my priority remains finding a
suitable new owner for Liverpool,” the paper quoted Broughton
as saying.  Houllier’s Write Off  Aston Villa manager Gerard Houllier will have three months
to decide whether to write off three players who will all be out
of contract next summer, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Nigel Reo-Coker, Steve Sidwell and John Carew have a
combined value of 16 million pounds ($25.3 million).  Eccleston on Loan?  Southampton is interested in signing Liverpool player
Nathan Eccleston on loan, the  Daily Mail  reported. Eccleston,
19, had been on loan at Huddersfield last season.  Cipriani Impresses  MK Dons may offer a contract to rugby player Danny Cipriani
should his move to Australian side Melbourne Rebels not be
successful, the  Daily Mail  reported.  Fly-half Cipriani impressed MK Dons manager Karl Robinson
with his soccer skills when he trained with the club for two
weeks before starting his two-year contract in Melbourne.  Reina Asks for Patience  Liverpool goalkeeper Pepe Reina has warned fans the club
may not be back at its best for six months, the  Daily Mail 
reported.  The club has gotten only six points from six matches under
new manager Roy Hodgson.  “When you have so many changes moving in a new direction
under a new boss, things don’t happen instantly,” the newspaper
quoted the Spaniard as saying. “It can take between three to
six months before you see improvements. Obviously the quicker we
adapt and improve as a team the better it will be for
everyone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  