-- Fed's Kocherlakota Says Added Treasury Purchases May Have `Muted' Impact
-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2010-09-29T15:27:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/kocherlakota-says-purchases-may-have-muted-impact-update1-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis
President  Narayana Kocherlakota  said the Fed may have a tough
time aiding the economy and reducing a “deeply troubling”
unemployment rate through a second round of Treasury purchases.  With financial markets functioning better now than in early
2009, “my own guess is that further uses of QE would have a
more muted effect” on narrowing the gap between longer and
shorter-term Treasury yields, Kocherlakota said today in a
speech in London hosted by the European Economics and Financial
Centre, using “quantitative easing” to refer to such
purchases.  Kocherlakota’s skepticism about how much restarting large-
scale purchases of Treasuries would boost growth and inflation
signals he may not be in favor of adopting the policy. Fed
officials said Sept. 21 that they are prepared to ease monetary
policy if needed, in part to keep too-low inflation from harming
the economy.  Gross domestic product “is growing, but more slowly than I
expected or than we would like,” Kocherlakota, the newest Fed
policy maker, said in his speech. “Inflation is a little low,
but only temporarily. The behavior of unemployment is deeply
troubling.”  Main Option  Fed officials are considering ways to bring down
unemployment that’s persisted at 9.5 percent or higher for the
past year, and Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  in August highlighted
additional asset purchases as a main option. The Fed purchased
more than $1.5 trillion of Treasuries and mortgage debt from
January 2009 through March 2010, Kocherlakota said. The policy-
setting Federal Open Market Committee next meets Nov. 2-3 in
Washington.  The Fed, which has kept its benchmark rate close to zero
since December 2008, probably wouldn’t be considering asset
purchases if it were able to reduce interest rates, which is a
more effective tool, Kocherlakota said.  “If QE were to have an upward effect on inflation
expectations, that would be desirable at this time,” he said,
adding that he expects the effects would be “quite muted.”  Kocherlakota, 46, joined the Minneapolis Fed as its chief
in October 2009 and will vote on monetary policy starting in
January. He was previously economics professor and department
chairman at the University of Minnesota in Minneapolis, where he
had taught since 2005. Kocherlakota also worked as a Fed
researcher and professor at Stanford University in California.  Publicly Contemplating  Kocherlakota joins Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  in
publicly contemplating the option of more asset purchases.
Lockhart, speaking yesterday in Sewanee, Tennessee, said the
debate among policy makers over whether to undertake a new round
of buying will “intensify” soon, and officials have the “will
to act” as needed to support the flagging U.S. recovery.  Lockhart told reporters that policy makers haven’t agreed
on further action and in his view it’s “not a foregone
conclusion that more accommodation is required.”  Kocherlakota, discussing other easing options outlined by
Bernanke, said changing the FOMC statement to indicate a longer
period of a low federal funds rate than the current “extended
period” should help lower medium-term and long-term rates.  Reducing the 0.25 percent rate paid on banks’ reserve
deposits may have a similar effect without having “much direct
effect on loan markets,” he said.  Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  and Boston Fed
President  Eric Rosengren  are scheduled to speak today at
separate events in the U.S. Rosengren votes on monetary policy
this year.  ‘Distinctly Lower’  The Fed’s Open Market Committee said after meeting Sept. 21
that the U.S. recovery “is likely to be modest in the near
term.” Kocherlakota said the Minneapolis Fed’s economic
forecasts from September are “distinctly lower” than August
estimates and now show GDP growth of about 2.4 percent in the
second half of 2010 and 2.5 percent in 2011.  Inflation, based on the Commerce Department’s personal
consumption expenditures price index preferred by the Fed, rose
at an annual rate of “just over 1 percent” from the fourth
quarter of 2009 through the second quarter of 2010, he said. The
bank’s forecasts show inflation returning to the 1.5 percent to
2 percent range next year, Kocherlakota said.  Underlying inflation is “somewhat below” levels
consistent with the Fed’s mandate to promote maximum employment
and stable prices, the FOMC said last week.  Above 8 Percent  Unemployment is likely to stay above 8 percent “well into
2012,” Kocherlakota said. In June, Fed officials projected it
would range from 8.3 percent to 8.7 percent in the fourth
quarter of 2011 and 7.1 percent to 7.5 percent a year later.  “The lack of vitality in the U.S. labor market can only be
termed disturbing,” Kocherlakota said. One measure he cited was
the decline in the seasonally adjusted labor force participation
rate in the 12 months through July to 64.6 percent from 65.4
percent, “the biggest July-over-July fall in the 60-plus-year
history of that statistic.”  Some economists expect the Fed to take new policy action,
such as large-scale asset purchases, to lower interest rates,
aiming to boost growth and keep inflation from declining too
much. Central bank officials will present updated projections
for GDP, unemployment and inflation at the November meeting.  Influence Economy  Quantitative easing can influence the economy in four ways:
signaling the Fed will keep the benchmark rate low for longer,
adding bank reserves that can add to money creation, reducing
the private sector’s exposure to interest-rate risk and shifting
that risk to taxpayers, Kocherlakota said.  With about $1 trillion of  excess reserves , banks are “not
using a lot of their existing licenses to create money,” he
said. “QE gives them new licenses to create money, but I do not
see why they would suddenly start to use the new ones if they
weren’t using the old ones.”  Kocherlakota said Sept. 8 he would have voted for the Fed’s
decision last month to reinvest maturing mortgage bonds into
Treasuries as a way to sustain economic growth. A decline in
long-term assets on the Fed’s balance sheet could have been “a
drag on the recovery,” Kocherlakota said earlier this month in
Missoula, Montana.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  