-- Kosovo Needs U.S. Troops to Ensure Peace in Balkans, Albanian Premier Says
-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 2010-09-29T02:56:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/kosovo-needs-u-s-troops-to-ensure-peace-in-balkans-albanian-premier-says.html
U.S. troops are needed in Kosovo to
ensure peace in the Balkan peninsula as sectarian divisions
continue to roil the region’s politics, Albanian Prime Minister
 Sali Berisha  said in an interview.  “The U.S. military presence is crucial for stability; the
risk from nationalists is still real,” Berisha said.
“Nationalism hasn’t disappeared from the peninsula.”  Berisha also said he’ll tell Serbian President  Boris Tadic 
on a forthcoming visit to Belgrade that his country must accept
a July 22 ruling by the International Court of Justice in the
Hague recognizing the legitimacy of Kosovo’s 2008 declaration of
independence from Serbia.  Serbia, backed by Russia, has refused to recognize Kosovo’s
independence following the 1999 North Atlantic Treaty
Organization-led bombing campaign that forced the Serbian army
and paramilitary units from Kosovo after a crackdown on ethnic
Albanians in what then was a Serbian province.  Serbia says the declaration was illegitimate and fears
Kosovo’s ethnic Albanian government will force the remaining
Serbian minority from its ancestral homeland.  “There is a bitter recent past” in the Balkans, Berisha
said, referring to the region’s decade of war, marked by ethnic
fighting and attempts at genocide. “Countries must stick to
existing borders.”  KFOR Presence  The U.S. has about 1,480  troops  in Kosovo in the 9,900-
person NATO-led Kosovo Force, known as KFOR.  Berisha said he was encouraged by Tadic’s Sept. 17
announcement that he would open dialogue with Kosovo. The
European Union has told Serbia that it must recognize Kosovo if
it wants to join the trade bloc.  Tadic said that Serbia is ready to open talks in the Kosovo
capital of Pristina, and said he hoped the two sides can work
out a “stable and sustainable solution” that respects the
“legitimate interest” of the ethnic Albanian population in
Kosovo and the “legitimate” national interests of Serbia.  “They have no more time to waste,” Berisha said of the
Serbs. He said Kosovo will “never” remain a part of Serbia,
and that Serbia should work with other Balkan states to hasten
their entry to the European Union. Of the states carved out of
the former Yugoslavia, only Slovenia has joined the EU.  EU Interest  “The national interest is now the EU interest,” Berisha
said.  “If a new policy prevailed in Belgrade, then definitely
Albanians are ready for a new chapter with the Serbs,” he said.
“I would encourage the Albanians in Kosovo, too, to be involved
in a dialogue.”  A U.S. State Department spokesman, Michael Cavey, wouldn’t
say how long U.S. troops may remain in Kosovo.  Christopher Dell , the U.S. ambassador in Kosovo’s capital,
Pristina, said in a Sept. 23  interview  with TV Most, a Serbian
channel in Kosovo, that KFOR can’t leave Kosovo until the United
Nations Security Council reverses resolution  1244 , which
authorized the multinational armed force that occupied Kosovo as
the Serb military withdrew.  “It can’t be ended unless all the permanent members, at
least of the Security Council, agree on that,” Dell said,
referring to KFOR’s presence. “We understand that Russia is not
at this time prepared to agree to ending 1244.”  Albania, whose population is majority Muslim, could serve
as an example of tolerance to the rest of Europe, Berisha said.  Natural Resources  A large, well-educated  population , low wages, and
government programs to reduce the bureaucratic burden on
business should encourage investment in Albania’s natural
resources, which include chrome, copper and iron ores and oil
fields in the Adriatic Sea, Berisha said.  Tourism in the country, which was once as isolated as North
Korea, reached 3 million visitors last year, up from 250,000 in
2004, Berisha said.  Albania’s economy is projected to grow 2.3 percent this
year and 3.2 percent next year, according to the  International
Monetary Fund.  The growth was driven largely by government
spending, said Sharon Fisher, an economist at IHS Global Insight,
a forecasting firm in Washington.  “No one is going to lose money in Albania,” Berisha said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter S. Green  in New York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  