-- Natural-Gas Spread Narrows to Record Low as Risk Shrinks: Energy Markets
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2010-09-30T19:28:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/natural-gas-spread-declines-to-record-low-as-risk-shrinks-energy-markets.html
U.S. natural gas production at a
37-year high and forecasts for mild weather next year are
crushing the premium on March futures compared with the April
contract.  The gap, or spread, between those futures on the New York
Mercantile Exchange narrowed 93 percent this year to a record
low of 3.6 cents per million British thermal units on Sept. 28.
Gas has dropped 31 percent this year with production predicted
to rise 2.1 percent to 61.21 billion cubic feet a day, the most
since 1973, according to the Energy Department in Washington.  “The spread has once again contracted to new record levels
on growing awareness that the industry might end the upcoming
winter season flush with gas in storage,” said  Teri Viswanath ,
a director of commodities research at Credit Suisse Securities
USA in Houston.  Natural gas for November delivery lost 9 cents, or 2.3
percent, to settle at $3.872 per million Btu today on the Nymex.
The March contract fell 3.6 cents to $4.259, 3.9 cents higher
than the April contract.  The volume of the March-April spread, a trade investors can
buy and sell on the Nymex, was 2,809 contracts yesterday, the
highest level for a spread involving two 2011 contracts. The
trade is a bet on strengthening demand in March and a decline in
April consumption as the weather warms.  Heating Demand  U.S. heating demand this winter will be 10 percent lower
than last year from December to February, according to Commodity
Weather Group LLC. Weather in the U.S. Midwest, East and South
will be mostly warmer than normal this winter as the La Nina
phenomenon drives up temperatures, the Bethesda, Maryland-based
meteorologist said.  About 53 percent of U.S. households use natural gas for
heating, according to the Energy Department.  Gas stockpiles  increased 74 billion cubic feet last week to
3.414 trillion, 6.3 percent higher than the five-year average,
the Energy Department said today.  Inventories will peak at 3.687 trillion cubic feet in early
November, according to the department, near the record 3.837
trillion cubic feet reached last November as the recession
slashed energy demand.  Gas storage has risen as producers increased output of so-
called unconventional gas. The number of horizontal rigs, which
are mostly used in shale-gas drilling, was a record 912 in the
past two weeks, according to Houston-based Baker Hughes Inc.  “Shale-gas rigs are still increasing quickly and that
portends increasing supply into the winter,” said  Chris Kostas ,
a senior analyst at Energy Security Analysis Inc. in Wakefield,
Massachusetts.  Shale Production  Production from shale wells rose 71 percent in 2008 from a
year earlier to 2.02 trillion cubic feet, according to  Energy
Department data . It will account for 34 percent of total output
in 2035, doubling from 17 percent in 2008, the data show.  “The rise in unconventional rigs and the existence of a La
Nina cycle give rise to the view that winter supplies will be
ample for key consuming regions in the Northeast,” Viswanath
said.  Stockpiles have also climbed as storms in the Atlantic have
left output mostly undisrupted.  About  10 percent  of U.S. gas output will come from federal
waters in the Gulf of Mexico this year, down from 17 percent
five years ago, according to Energy Department estimates. Gulf
production dropped 52 percent in the past 10 years.  Storm Impact  As little as 7.9 billion cubic feet of gas production was
shut in from June through August because of storms, lower than
projections of 57.4 billion, the Energy Department said in the
Short-Term Energy Outlook on Sept. 8.  “The entire gas futures curve is weighed on by a lack of
summer hurricanes,” said  Jason Schenker , president of Prestige
Economics LLC, an Austin, Texas-based energy consultant.  The increased stockpiles have pushed winter gas prices to
the lowest level in eight years, reducing heating bills
consumers have to pay.  Gas for January delivery, covering the period when North
American heating demand typically peaks, traded at $4.294 per
million Btu today, the lowest price for a January contract at
the end of September since 2002.  The Energy Department on Sept. 8 lowered its forecast for
benchmark Henry Hub spot gas prices this year by 3.2 percent to
$4.54 per million Btu. It also cut 2011 forecasts by 4.4 percent
to $4.76.  Spot prices at Henry Hub in Erath, Louisiana, rose 3.66
cents to $3.8451 per million Btu on the Intercontinental
Exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Moming Zhou  in New York at 
 Mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  