-- Natural Gas Falls as Threat of Output Disruptions in Gulf of Mexico Eases
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 2010-09-29T14:27:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/natural-gas-falls-as-threat-of-output-disruptions-in-gulf-of-mexico-eases.html
Natural gas futures fell in New
York on easing concern that storms will disrupt gas production
in the Gulf of Mexico before the end of the hurricane season.  A storm over central Cuba is likely to reach southeastern
Florida tonight, steering clear of energy pipelines and
platforms in the Gulf, according to  National Hurricane Center 
forecasts. An area of showers and thunderstorms in the central
Atlantic has a 10 percent chance of becoming a tropical cyclone
during the next 48 hours. The hurricane season ends Nov. 30.  “There’s a lot of talk about the weather pattern showing
that hurricane season is over,” said  Mike Rose , the director of
energy trading for Angus Jackson Inc. in Fort Lauderdale,
Florida. Prices may stay within a range of $3.75 to $4 per
million British thermal units this week, Rose said.  Natural gas for November delivery fell 1.4 cents, or 0.4
percent, to $3.937 per million Btu at 10:04 a.m. on the New York
Mercantile Exchange. Prices have fallen 29 percent this year.  The  National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration  last
month reduced its 2010 Atlantic hurricane forecast to 14 to 20
named storms from an earlier estimate of 14 to 23.  A total of 7.9 billion cubic feet of natural gas production
was temporarily shut off because of storms in June, July and
August, compared with the Energy Department’s prediction of 57.4
billion for those months.  “As far as any production threats to energy interests in
the Gulf of Mexico, the probability is very low at least into
mid-October,” said  Travis Hartman , a meteorologist with MDA
Federal Inc.’s EarthSat Energy Weather in Rockville, Maryland.
An area of low pressure is preventing storms from entering the
Gulf, Hartman said.  Cooler Weather  Beyond mid-October, wind conditions may prevent storm
formation, Hartman said. The statistical peak of the Atlantic
hurricane season is Sept. 10.  Below-normal temperatures are likely in the southeastern
and south central U.S. from Oct. 4 to Oct. 8, according to MDA.
Temperatures across much of the western U.S. and northern
Midwest may be warmer-than-normal during that period, MDA said.  About 23 percent of U.S. electricity is generated using
natural gas, according to the Energy Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Buurma  in New York at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  