-- New Jersey Man Accused of Violating Iran Embargo (Correct)
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2010-10-04T11:45:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/new-jersey-man-accused-by-u-s-prosecutors-of-violating-iran-trade-embargo.html
(Corrects arresting agency in fifth and ninth paragraphs of
story published Sept. 29.)  A New Jersey man was arrested today
by federal authorities who accused him of violating the U.S.
trade embargo with Iran and operating an unlicensed money-
transmitting business known as a hawala.  Mahdi Socara, 38, an Iranian citizen and resident of
Nutley, New Jersey, was charged with transferring about $500,000
a year on behalf of his customers. He also is accused of
violating the International Emergency Economic Powers Act and
federal Iranian Transactions Regulations.  Hawalas are part of an underground banking system in which
money doesn’t physically cross borders. Customers in one country
transfer funds to an operator, or hawaladar, and corresponding
funds are disbursed in another country by a second hawaladar,
according to a statement by U.S. Attorney Paul Fishman.  Socara was arrested July 20 on a deportation order after
Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents got a tip that he was
involved in money laundering, according to his arrest complaint.
He told ICE agents he is a “well-known hawaladar” who worked
with a relative in Iran, according to the complaint.  “He boasted that he offered the best service in New York
City,” according to the ICE complaint dated Sept. 10.  No Bail  Socara appeared today in federal court in Newark, New
Jersey, where U.S. Magistrate Judge Michael Shipp ordered him
detained without bail. After the hearing, Socara’s lawyer Lisa
Mack, an assistant federal public defender, and Assistant U.S.
Attorney Frances Bajada declined comment.  Socara faces as many as 20 years in prison on the IEEPA
count and five years on the unlicensed money transmitting count.  It wasn’t immediately clear why federal authorities waited
until today to arrest Socara. The Fishman statement said the
investigation is continuing.  During a search of Socara’s apartment in Nutley, agents
found 850 bank deposit and withdrawal slips showing he deposited
$2 million for 200 separate accounts between June 2005 and July
2010, according to the ICE complaint.  “Mahdi Socara’s possession of such voluminous amounts of
bank records indicates that he is a hawaladar depositing money
into beneficiary customer’s United States bank accounts,”
according to the complaint.  The case is U.S. v. Socara, 10-mj-04145, U.S. District
Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 