-- Newedge Plans to Hire At Least 50 People in Asia, Ending a `Lean' Period
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 2010-09-29T03:29:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/newedge-joins-hiring-spree-to-increase-business-in-asia-as-salaries-climb.html
Newedge Group, a Paris-based
brokerage and clearing house, plans to hire at least 50 people
for Asian sales over the next year as it expands in the region.  “We went through a period after the crisis where we had to
make ourselves as lean as possible,” Newedge’s head of Asia-
Pacific,  Laurent Cunin , said in an interview at his office in
Singapore yesterday. “Now where we’re being aggressive is in
customer-facing positions, roles that will help grow the
business.”  Newedge, a  joint venture  between Societe Generale and
Credit Agricole CIB, has about 475 staff in Asia and sees India
and China -- the region’s two fastest-growing major economies --
as key markets, Cunin said. It’s expanding its product range as
interest in Asian derivatives trading increases from clients in
Europe and the U.S., building on existing relationships with
about 20 stock and futures exchanges from Sydney to Mumbai.  Banks from JPMorgan Chase & Co. to Julius Baer Group Ltd.
and UBS AG are boosting Asia headcount to capitalize on a region
where economies are growing faster than Europe and the U.S.  “My goal is to grow Asia’s share of revenue, which is
about 10 to 15 percent of the group’s total,” said Cunin, who
was promoted from acting chief executive officer of the Americas
to his current Hong Kong-based role in March. He declined to
forecast the share of group revenue Asia will have.  One of the biggest hurdles to growth is a surge in the
region’s salaries, Cunin said.  “We’re seeing a lot of poaching as firms that pulled back
in the past try to play catch-up,” he said. “Salaries are
about 20 percent higher than what they were and this competition
for talent is slowing us down in terms of hiring people.”  Banks Hire  In Asia, Newedge offices include Hong Kong, Sydney, Tokyo,
Singapore and Taipei, and a joint venture with  CITIC Group  in
China.  New York-based JPMorgan intends to increase private banking
workers in Asia by about 40 percent this year after growing at a
similar pace in 2009, while DBS Group Holdings Ltd., Southeast
Asia’s biggest bank, is spending S$250 million ($190 million) in
the next five years to expand its treasury and markets business
in the region, with a China-India focus.  Seventy-four percent of banking and financial services
workers in Asia-Pacific expect to be paid a bonus this year,
according to a survey released in June by recruitment company
Robert Half International Inc.  People working in Hong Kong institutional sales with eight
years or more of experience earned average salaries of between
HK$840,000 ($108,000) and HK$1.6 million or higher this year,
according to a Robert Walters Plc survey. Singapore private
bankers make S$220,000 ($167,000) or more, while total pay could
be higher including bonuses, the survey showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katrina Nicholas  in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  