-- Nigeria Broadest Stock Index Rises Most Since July; Zenith, Oando Advance
-- B y   S a m   O l u k o y a
-- 2010-09-29T14:46:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/nigeria-broadest-stock-index-rises-most-since-july-zenith-oando-advance.html
Nigeria’s benchmark stock measure
climbed the most since July, boosted by increases in  Zenith Bank
Plc , the biggest lender, and in Oando Plc after it said it wants
to buy assets to boost oil production.  The 213-member  Nigeria Stock Exchange All Share Index 
gained 1.1 percent to close at 22,674.43 by 1 p.m. in Lagos,
according to data from the exchange’s website. That’s the
biggest increase since July 27, Bloomberg data show.  Oando , the West African nation’s biggest fuel retailer,
rose for the first time in four days after announcing plans to
acquire assets to help it meet an oil-production target
of 100,000 barrels per day within three years, Degbola Abudu,
the head of corporate finance, said in Lagos yesterday.  Zenith Bank gained on speculation third-quarter profit will
show an improvement after the company said first-half profit
more than doubled to 21.3 billion naira ($138 million),
Babatunde Obaniyi, an analyst at Afrinvest West Africa Ltd.,
said by phone today.  “Also, it is anticipated that Zenith will be one of the
buyers” of one of the lenders bailed out by the central bank
last year, Obaniyi said.  Nigeria has received bids for 6 of the 10 lenders it
injected 620 billion naira into in August last year, central
bank Governor Lamido Sanusi said on Sept. 22. The regulator
plans to make an announcement on the rescued lenders by “late
September, or the first or second week of October,” he said.  Nigeria, whose stock market is the second-biggest in sub-
Saharan Africa after South Africa’s, is in the process of
setting up the Asset Management Corp., which will buy the bad
debt of commercial banks, estimated at $10 billion after last
year’s banking crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sam Olukoya  in Lagos via Johannesburg on 
 solukoya2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 