-- Nissan Says Talks Are Advanced on Using Daimler Platform for Infiniti Cars
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t   a n d   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2010-09-30T01:32:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/nissan-says-in-advanced-talks-to-use-daimler-platform-for-infiniti-models.html
Nissan Motor Co.  is in advanced
talks for its Infiniti luxury brand to use an existing  Daimler
AG  car platform,  Colin Dodge , a Nissan executive vice president,
told reporters on the eve of the Paris Motor Show.  The companies will meet this week to discuss details of the
cooperation, such as the selection of Daimler diesel engines to
be offered with the Infiniti model, Dodge said yesterday.
Infiniti plans to sell vehicles made on Daimler’s mechanical
underpinnings in the U.S., Europe and China, he said.  “We’re finalizing our discussions on Saturday,” Dodge
said.  Han Tjan , a Daimler spokesman, didn’t immediately have a
comment on the platform sharing.  Talks between the Nissan-Renault SA alliance and Daimler
are making good progress,  Carlos Ghosn , CEO of the French and
Japanese automakers, said in an interview with Le Monde.
Renault-Nissan executives had discovered that Daimler platforms
were less expensive than they thought, he said, and Daimler
engineers were surprised by the reliability of Renault vehicles.  Renault is the  largest shareholder  in Nissan, which holds a
14 percent stake in the Boulogne Billancourt-based automaker.  Nissan rose 1.3 percent to 754 yen, the highest intraday
level since May 13, as of 10:28 a.m. in Tokyo trading. Daimler
advanced 0.1 percent in Frankfurt trading yesterday, while
Renault gained 0.1 percent in Paris.  Separately,  Didier Leroy , president of Toyota Motor Corp.’s
European unit, said in Paris it isn’t holding talks with Daimler
about a tie-up on hybrid technology.  The automaker may provide hybrid technologies to Daimler at
the request of the German automaker, the Nikkan Jidosha
newspaper reported Sept. 16, without saying where it obtained
the information.  Toyota, the world’s biggest carmaker, expects sales in
Europe to drop about 10 percent to 800,000 vehicles this year
from 886,000 last year, Leroy said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laurence Frost  in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  