-- TNK-BP Seeks Acquisition of BP's Stake in Vietnamese Natural-Gas Project
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2010-09-29T10:58:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/tnk-bp-seeks-acquisition-of-bp-s-stake-in-vietnamese-natural-gas-project.html
TNK-BP , BP Plc’s venture with a
group of Russian billionaires, will make a proposal to buy BP’s
share in an offshore natural gas project in Vietnam.  “We have an offer from BP,” Maxim Barsky, TNK-BP deputy
chief executive officer, told reporters in Moscow today. “We
are finishing our evaluation of it and I hope in the next board
meeting we will make an offer.”  BP , Europe’s largest oil producer by volume, plans to sell
$30 billion of assets in 18 months to cover costs linked to the
Gulf of Mexico oil spill, the worst in U.S. history. BP said in
July it plans to sell interests in the Nam Con Son gas project
in Vietnam. TNK-BP’s board meets in October.  TNK-BP agreed on a one-year supply deal with Vietnam Oil &
Gas, known as PetroVietnam.  The Moscow-based company will provide a minimum of 100,000
metric tons a month of ESPO-blend crude oil to Vietnam from
Russia’s Pacific port Kozmino starting in November and lasting
at least a year, Jonathan Kollek, senior vice president for
sales, trading and logistics, told reporters today in Moscow.
The crude price will be linked to that set in Dubai, he said.  The trade deal should be the “first step” in a developing
relationship between PetroVietnam and TNK-BP, Phung Dinh Thuc,
chief executive officer of the Vietnamese company, said today in
Moscow at the signing ceremony.  TNK-BP seeks an equity stake of as much as 50 percent in
the Dung Quat refinery, which produces 6 million tons of crude a
year and may produce as much as 10 million tons, Barsky said.  In return, PetroVietnam would gain access to Russian oil
deposits, Barsky said. Fields under consideration would likely
be among those that feed Russia’s East Siberian Pacific Ocean
pipeline, he said.  TNK-BP holds licenses to fields that would supply the Asia
pipe in the Siberian Yamal Nenets region and in Eastern Siberia.  The two sides aim to sign a general accord on the venture
in time for Russian President Dmitry Medvedev’s visit to Vietnam
next month, Barsky said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Torrey Clark at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net  