-- Nordics Seek `Polluter Pays' Bank Tax to Fund Crises
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o   a n d   G e l u   S u l u g i u c
-- 2010-09-29T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/nordics-push-for-polluter-pays-eu-banking-levy-to-pay-for-crisis-losses.html
Sweden, Finland and Denmark are
promoting a European Union-wide bank levy to force lenders to
help share the clean-up costs of future banking crises.  “Making the polluter pay makes a lot of sense,” said  Brian Mikkelsen , Danish Economy Minister, in an interview.  Former Federal Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan  and New York
University Professor  Nouriel Roubini are among fans of how
Sweden solved its banking crisis in the 1990s. Reforms
introduced then helped inoculate the Nordic region from the sub-
prime meltdown that cost the rest of Europe’s banks $585 billion
in losses, making Scandinavia a source of inspiration as the EU
tries to reach agreement on new financial regulations.  “If I should bet on something, I would say some time next
year we will have some kind of pretty harmonized way to organize
the bank levy,” Finnish Finance Minister  Jyrki Katainen  said in
an interview. “They have a very good model for this in Sweden,
we could copy that model on the European level.”  Sweden created a stability fund in October 2008 obliging
its banks to contribute an annual fee equal to 0.036 percent of
the value of their liabilities, excluding some subordinated
debt. The Swedish fund, which the government estimates will
swell to about 2.5 percent of gross domestic product by 2023,
had accumulated 30.8 billion kronor ($4.59 billion) at the end
of June, according to the National Debt Office, which manages
the fund.  Risk Compensation  The European Commission is due to propose a package of
crisis management measures, including regulatory reform, next
month.  “We strongly believe that we should introduce a bank
levy” in the EU, Swedish Finance Minister  Anders Borg  said in
an interview. “Bankers should pay for the risks they’re adding
to the economy.” He says the best model doesn’t “harm banks
with strong equity levels,” by taking their equity into account
when calculating contributions.  Sweden’s government will generate a profit of about $750
million by 2015 as  lenders  contribute more to its fund than the
state pays out, the debt office said on Aug. 10.  In June, the U.K. government said banks with more than 20
billion pounds ($32 billion) in assets face an annual 2 billion-
pound levy. In Germany, Chancellor  Angela Merkel  on Aug. 25
approved a bailout fund into which banks must contribute 1.3
billion euros ($1.77 billion) a year. French Finance Minister
 Christine Lagarde  said on July 4 her country wants to introduce
a risk-weighted tax on lenders.  Funding Recovery  Detractors say a bank levy will make borrowing more costly
and hamper economic recovery.  “Banks that are trying to continue funding the real
economy are being made to pay on all fronts,” said Florence
Ranson, a spokeswoman at the Brussels-based European Banking
Federation, an umbrella group for bankers’ associations in the
EU. “We don’t favor the idea of a bank levy when banks already
need to comply with strong capital requirements and many have
reimbursed all state aid.”  Basel III will require lenders to have common equity equal
to at least 7 percent of assets, weighted according to their
risk, including a 2.5 percent buffer to withstand future stress.  “The global financial crisis was so massive and left such
a deep scar that it’s understandable that there are a lot of
political initiatives like this one,” said Piia-Noora Kauppi,
managing director of the Federation of Finnish Financial
Services, in an interview. Even so, “we don’t see a need for a
bank levy.”  A tax on lenders “will increase the cost of financing to
an extent,” said Bank of Finland board member  Seppo Honkapohja 
in an interview. It also “would help to stabilize the banking
system.”  Behavior Modification  A bank levy could be used to change banks’ behavior so as
to prevent future crises, according to Sony Kapoor, a former
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  investment banker who now runs a
London-based advisory firm called Re-Define.  “Having any levy in place, even if it’s a small one,
allows regulators and governments to change the structure, to
induce behavioral change,” he said. “The longer the financial
reform discussion goes on, the greater the opportunities for
banks to use their lobbying power to water it down.”  The Nordic region’s 1990s banking crisis cost Finland 5.3
percent of GDP, compared with 0.2 percent in Sweden, according
to  data  compiled by Knut Sandal, director of Norges Bank’s
payment systems department.  The largest Nordic lender,  Nordea Bank AB , is the product
of a merger pushed through by the Swedish government in 1993
between Nordbanken and Gota, two regional lenders that failed
when the country’s real-estate bubble burst. Their toxic assets
were thrown into a so-called bad bank. Nordea also absorbed
Finland’s Merita Bank and Denmark’s Unibank.  “Transparency, recapitalization of banks and an asset
management entity were basic elements that were put in the
toolbox in the 1990s Nordic banking crisis,” said Honkapohja.
“The way the crisis was managed is considered exemplary.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kati Pohjanpalo  in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net ;
 Gelu Sulugiuc  in Copenhagen at 
 gsulugiuc@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  