-- Noreco May Sell More Fields, Says Market for Oil, Gas Assets Has Revived
-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 2010-09-29T13:51:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/noreco-may-sell-more-fields-says-market-for-oil-gas-assets-has-revived.html
Norwegian Energy Co. ASA ’s Chief
Executive Officer  Scott Kerr  said the market for oil and gas
assets has improved and the company would consider selling
stakes in the North Sea Huntington and Nemo fields.  “Our strategy has always been that we will monetize our
discoveries either through production or sales, so even though
those assets are not on the market so to speak, of course if
there was an offer for them that we found compelling then yes,
we would seriously consider,” Kerr said today in an interview.
The asset market began picking up in “early summer,” he said.  Noreco, as the company is known, today said it’s selling
its stakes in the Norwegian oil fields Oselvar and Enoch to
Marubeni Corp., for $43 million after tax, with an option for
200 million kroner ($34 million) after the development of
Oselvar. In July, it sold 20 percent of production license 378
to Talisman Energy Inc for $43 million.  The Stavanger-based company plans to spend its improved
cash position mainly on exploration in Norway.  “We’ve freed up over $200 million on our balance sheet and
that will be helpful,” Kerr said from London. “We have more
resources that we will be exploring net over the next 18 months
than we’ve had over the past four years. We have a very large
program and we think it will deliver a lot of value.”  Noreco this month increased a loan to fund exploration to
1.55 billion kroner and extended the maturity of a $320 million
loan by one year to 2014. The credit line, originally 1.05
billion kroner, will finance as much as 70 percent of the
exploration in Norway, the company said in a statement on Sept.
17.  Greenland Bid  Noreco’s exploration drilling program consists of three
wells this year and it plans to start production at Huntington,
Nemo in the coming two years.  While the company bid in Greenland’s Baffin Bay oil
licensing round this year, which will be announced next month,
it doesn’t expected to be investing in the area in the
immediately. Companies including Statoil ASA and Royal Dutch
Shell Plc have bid in the Greenland round.  “We don’t really expect a lot out of that round given the
focus on major companies coming into Greenland,” Kerr said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Marianne Stigset  in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  