-- Disney, Entrepreneur Media: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2010-09-29T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/novozymes-disney-entrepreneur-media-intellectual-property.html
Novozymes A/S  lost a U.S. court bid
to prevent  Danisco A/S  from selling an enzyme used in biofuel
production until a trial can be held on patent-infringement
claims.  U.S. District Judge Barbara Crabb in Madison, Wisconsin,
rejected arguments by Novozymes that Danisco would cause
irreparable damages to Novozymes’ market share unless it was
halted. Danisco has the ability to pay financial compensation if
it ultimately loses the case, the judge said in the Sept. 24
ruling. She found there’s still a “substantial question” about
the validity of the Novozymes patent.  Novozymes contends its smaller rival infringes a patent on
an alpha amylase enzyme that remains active in high
temperatures. The two Danish companies are the world’s biggest
makers of enzymes that break down organic material, such as
grain and corn, to form bioethanol, used as an alternative to
fossil fuels.  Novozymes has “not shown that they are likely to lose a
significant amount of additional market share between now and
trial,” Crabb wrote. “The accused products had been on the
market for more than two years” when the patent was issued.  The disputed patent -- 7,713,723 -- was issued May 11, the
same day the case was filed.  Danisco dominated the market until 1999, when Novozymes
began selling its Liquozyme enzyme, according to Crabb’s ruling.
At one point, Liquozyme accounted for 80 percent of the market,
before Danisco introduced a new product called GC358. Liquozyme
now has about 60 percent of the market, the judge said.  The judge also said it wasn’t in the public’s best interest
for Danisco to be ordered off the market, since Novozymes said
Liquozyme doesn’t use the invention covered by the patent. She
said it was “inconsistent” for Novozymes to argue that the
patent “represents an important new invention” and then say it
would make no difference if no one is allowed to use it.  “The legal standard for obtaining a preliminary injunction
is higher than the legal standard Novozymes must meet at trial,
and as such preliminary injunctions are rarely given,”
Annegrethe Jakobsen, a spokeswoman for Novozymes, said by e-
mail. “We believe we will ultimately prevail at the trial,
which is scheduled for the fall of 2011.”  Danisco, based in Copenhagen, paid Novozymes $15.3 million
to settle a 2007 patent dispute over another enzyme used in
ethanol production. In that case, Novozymes won after first
being denied a preliminary injunction.  In a separate case, Danisco filed a U.K. patent-
infringement lawsuit July 19 against Novozymes of Bagsvaerd,
Denmark, in connection with an unspecified enzyme.  The case is Novozymes A/S v. Danisco A/S, et al, 10-cv-251,
U.S. District Court for the Western District of Wisconsin
(Madison).  Apple Sues Nokia in U.K. in Continuing Patent Fight  Apple Inc.  said it filed a patent-infringement lawsuit
against  Nokia Oyj  in the U.K., part of a broader fight between
the companies over smartphone technology.  A copy of the complaint, filed Sept. 28 in the U.K. High
Court of Justice Chancery Division, wasn’t immediately
available. Kristin Huguet, an Apple spokeswoman, said the case
is related to patent-infringement claims that Apple filed
against Nokia in December in the U.S.  “This is an unsurprising development, which seems designed
to put pressure on the ongoing dialogue between both
companies,” said Mark Durrant, a Nokia spokesman. “It changes
nothing in the fundamentals of the matter, which are rooted in
Apple’s refusal to respect Nokia’s intellectual property and
attempt to free-ride on the back of Nokia’s innovation.”  The dispute began in October, when Espoo, Finland-based
Nokia filed a lawsuit accusing Apple of infringing 10 patents.
It demanded royalties on all iPhones sold since Apple Chief
Executive Officer Steve Jobs, 55, introduced the device in 2007.  Charges and countercharges followed, including complaints
at the U.S. International Trade Commission in Washington that
may result in a ban on imports of either the Nokia or Apple
phones. Some Apple claims against Nokia are scheduled for a
trial beginning Nov. 1 at the agency, and Nokia’s case against
Apple is scheduled for Nov. 29, according to information on the
ITC’s website.                     ‘  The U.K. case is based on “nine implementation patents
already in suit between the two companies in the U.S.,” Durrant
said. “Though litigation is always a last resort for Nokia, the
company will continue to defend itself to the utmost.”  In court filings in December and February, Apple claimed
Nokia was seeking to force Apple into surrendering access to
proprietary technology that differentiates the iPhone. Apple
said it doesn’t want to license its iPhone-related patents to
competitors.  The new case is Apple Inc. v. Nokia Corp., HC10CO3053, High
Court of Justice, Chancery Division (London).  Nokia’s ITC case against Apple is In the Matter of
Electronic Devices, including Mobile Phones, Portable Music
Players and Computers, 337-701, and Apple’s case is In the
Matter of Certain Mobile Communications and Computer Devices,
337-703, both in the U.S. International Trade Commission
(Washington).  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  Disney, CBS, Fox Sue Ivi for Streaming Shows on Web  Walt Disney Co. ’s ABC,  CBS Corp.  and other broadcasters
sued  Ivi  Inc., an online subscription service, for streaming
television programs over the Web without authorization.  The companies, which also include News Corp.’s Fox, General
Electric Co.’s NBC and the Public Broadcasting Service, today
accused Ivi and its founder, Todd Weaver, of copyright
infringement in a federal court complaint in New York.  “Defendants have launched their infringing Internet TV
service to coincide with the start of the new fall television
season,” the broadcasters said in the complaint.  Ivi, based in Seattle, began streaming TV stations there
and in New York 24 hours a day to Web subscribers worldwide on
Sept. 13, according to the lawsuit. Viewers would pay $4.99 a
month after a 30-day free trial, the complaint said.
Broadcasters have deals with companies including Hulu LLC,
Netflix Inc. and Apple Inc. to stream TV shows. Hulu’s owners
include NBC, Fox and ABC.  On Sept. 20, Ivi and Weaver filed suit in federal court in
Seattle seeking a ruling that Ivi isn’t infringing copyrights.  The Seattle company claimed that copyright law authorized
secondary transmission of copyrighted works embodied in primary
transmissions, such as those from the content owners. It argued
that because copyright law permits secondary transmission upon
payment of licensing fees, its actions are permissible.  In an e-mail yesterday, Weaver said of the new suit that
“big media is choosing to fight Internet delivery the same way
they fought against cable delivery and satellite delivery, when
in reality it is legal to retransmit.”  He said that “broadcasters charge more in advertising due
to the increase in viewers. It is too bad big media must fight
innovation that is legal, pays them and increases their
revenue.”  The broadcasters said that after they demanded that Ivi
stop streaming their stations, the company initially responded
that it was “open to engaging in discussions to explore more
direct contractual agreements with certain plaintiffs.” Ivi
sued several days later.  Major League Baseball, Univision, Telemundo, Cox Media,
Tribune Television, Fisher Broadcasting, WPIX, WGBH and WNET.org
are also plaintiffs in the New York suit.  Today’s case is WPIX Inc. v. Ivi Inc., 10-7415, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The
earlier case is Ivi Inc. v. Fisher Communications Inc., 10-1512,
U.S. District Court, Western District of Washington (Seattle).  Attack Against Copyright Enforcement Firm Leaks Private Data  ACS:Law, the London firm that sent out demand letters to
alleged illegal file sharers in the U.K., became the target of
an Internet attack that exposed on the Internet private
information including physical addresses and credit card numbers
of “tens of thousands of broadband users,” the U.K.’s Guardian
reported.  The firm’s website -- www.acs-law.org.uk -- has gone
offline following a sustained attack that left thousands of the
firm’s e-mails published on its front page and distributed
widely on the Internet, according to the Guardian.  The confidential information was also uploaded to the
Pirate Bay file-sharing site, which prompted the U.K.’s Pirate
Party to tell protesters to “find less drastic ways to make
their displeasure felt” and that it opposed such leaks of
confidential matters, the newspaper reported.  Andrew Crosley of the firm told the Guardian he was unable
to comment on the attack “for legal reasons.”  U.K. Band Member Predicts Eternal Perdition for Music Pirates  Guy Harvey, a member of the British alternative rock band
 Elbow , says those who pirate music instead of paying for it are
“going to hell,”  according to  the BBC.  He told the BBC that while he could understand poor
people’s illegally copying music, there’s “no excuse” for
those who can afford it. He said they’ll have their own rooms in
hell as a consequence of their actions.  His band, which won the 2008 Barclaycard Mercury Prize for
its album “ The Seldom Seen Kid ,” has sold more than 600,000
copies in the U.K., according to the BBC.  Piracy losses are behind Elbow’s 2011 arena tour because
“without the live side, nobody’s making any money,” Garvey
said and the BBC reported.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trademark  Entrepreneur Media Sued Over ‘Entrepreneur.Ology’ Trademark  Entrepreneur Media Inc. , the Irvine, California-based
publisher of Entrepreneur Magazine, was sued  by a Texas lawyer
in a dispute over his attempt to register “Entrepreneur.Ology”
as a trademark.  Daniel R. Castro, of Austin, Texas-based Castro & Baker
LIP, said the publisher is opposing his trademark registration
and sent him a cease-and-desist letter Sept. 7, threatening to
sue him if he didn’t give up rights to the
“Entrepreneur.Ology” mark, and his www.entrepreneurOlogy.com
domain name.  According to Bloomberg data, Entrepreneur Media has filed
five trademark-infringement suits since 2005.  Castro said the publisher claimed his domain name and
trademark registration violated its “Entrepreneur” trademark.  Castro is author of “Critical Choices that Change Lives,”
and a book in progress tentatively titled “Anatomy of the
Entrepreneur’s Brain.” He says he’s about to start a “Boot
Camp for Entrepreneurs,” in which he will teach corporate
executives to think and act like entrepreneurs.  He says he’s given presentations on the subject of
entrepreneurship for the American Red Cross, the City of Austin,
International Business Machines Corp., Dell Inc. and
Northwestern Mutual Insurance, according to the complaint filed
Sept. 15 in federal court in Austin.  The word “Entrepreneur.Ology” is one he claims he coined
and that it’s “fanciful,” “inherently distinct” and, as
such, entitled to trademark protection.  The word, Castro says,
is as distinctive a word as “Kodak” or “Exxon.”  According to the patent office database, Entrepreneur Media
has two trademark registrations for the world “Entrepreneur,”
one of use with trade shows, and the other for pre-recorded
audio and visual media.  The Irvine-California-based publisher has other trademark
registrations, many of which incorporate the word
“entrepreneur.”  The company didn’t immediately respond to an e-mailed
request for comment on the suit. Lawyer Deborah A. Gubernick of
Latham & Watkins, who represented the company at the U.S. Patent
and Trademark Office in an attempt to block Castro’s trademark
from being issued, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail and a
phone call seeking comment.  Castro claims the publisher is attempting to “kidnap” the
word, which he said has been used by authors “in their books
and articles for hundreds of years.” They “should be allowed
the freedom to continue doing so for eternity,” he said in his
pleadings.  He asked the court to declare that “entrepreneur” as a
stand-alone word can’t be registered as a trademark, and that
his “EntrepreNeurology,” ‘Entrepreneur.Ology.” and
“www.entrepreneurOlogy.com” don’t infringe.  He claims the
publisher is violating antitrust laws by trying to keep him from
using his coined words, and seeks damages, court costs and
attorney fees under trademark and antitrust laws.  He represents himself in this action.  The case is Castro v. Entrepreneur Media Inc., 1:10-cv-
00695-JRN, U.S. District Court, Western District of Texas
(Austin).  For more trademark news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Astro Unit Leaked Confidential Data, AV Asia Claims  Measat Broadcast Network Systems Sdn., a unit of Malaysian
billionaire  T. Ananda Krishnan ’s  Astro All Asia Networks Plc .,
illegally used confidential information in a tender for new
satellite dishes with reduced signal loss during rainstorms,  AV
Asia Sdn  claimed in a lawsuit.  AV Asia, a Malaysian television equipment provider, sought
1.3 billion ringgit ($420 million) for damages in the suit,
filed yesterday in the Kuala Lumpur High Court.  Closely held AV Asia sought help in 2008 from  Maspro Denkoh
Corp. , a Japanese television-receiving equipment manufacturer,
to help it develop a satellite dish less susceptible to existing
rain fade problems, a characteristic which lends to transmission
interruptions during bad tropical weather, according to the
suit.  AV Asia and Maspro’s engineers met with Measat in August
that year to discuss their ideas and exchanged data after
signing non-disclosure agreements, AV Asia said in the court
documents.  “The rights of the rain fade solution were given by Maspro
solely and exclusively to my client,” Ravi Sodhi, AV Asia’s
lawyer, told reporters at court yesterday.  Measat used the information in a bid on a contract with
satellite dish suppliers and to help it start the  Astro B.yond ,
the first high-definition television service in Malaysia, AV
Asia said.  Astro said it had not been served with any legal
proceedings and therefore couldn’t comment.  Tele System Electronic (M) Sdn, which is providing Measat
with satellite dishes, was also named as a defendant, AV Asia’s
lawyer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 