-- Obama as Comeback Kid Just Needs Weaker Dollar: Simon Johnson
-- B y   S i m o n   J o h n s o n
-- 2010-09-29T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/obama-as-comeback-kid-just-needs-lower-dollar-commentary-by-simon-johnson.html
Conventional wisdom has it that
 Barack Obama ’s administration is on the economic ropes.  Unemployment  is high and might rise more, even though the
recession officially ended more than a year ago. The 2009 fiscal
stimulus is widely regarded as having been, at best, a bore, so
there is no serious political interest in making another such
effort. The political right is pounding the fiscal-
responsibility drum all the way to the midterm elections.  Three members of Obama’s original economics dream team --
 Larry Summers ,  Peter Orszag  and  Christina Romer  -- have left or
will soon leave the government. On top of all this, there is a
widespread perception that the administration is anti-business,
which discourages hiring and investment.  What this conventional wisdom misses is that we experienced
a severe credit crisis of the kind more typically seen in recent
decades in middle-income emerging-market countries. The U.S. can
recover quickly -- and jobs can come back much faster than
expected -- but only if the dollar now depreciates.  Like it or not, significant dollar depreciation is more
probable than most now suppose. The depth of the crisis in late
2008 stunned many U.S. observers, but its features were fairly
obvious to people who have worked in Russia, Mexico, Argentina,
or South Korea. Similarly, the recovery can share some
characteristics with what those countries have experienced.  Korean Rebound  We shouldn’t anticipate any kind of immediate growth
miracle in the U.S., but just keep in mind that after its
economic collapse in 1997-98, South Korea grew almost 11 percent
in 1999, while Russia -- written off in economic terms after its
currency, public finances and banking system effectively
collapsed in the fall of 1998 -- still managed a 6.4 percent
expansion in 1999 and  10 percent in 2000 .  The main reason the U.S. isn’t bouncing back so fast is
because of exports and the dollar. South Korea, Russia, and
other emerging markets that go through severe crises usually
undergo a sharp depreciation in the inflation-adjusted value of
the currency, making them hypercompetitive, at least for a
while. This makes it easier to replace imports with domestic
goods and services and much more attractive to export.  In contrast, the global financial crisis actually
strengthened the U.S. dollar as it was seen as a haven, although
the dollar has fallen somewhat from its recent peak against
major trading partners.  Export-Led Growth  It takes time for a big economy like the U.S. to export its
way back to growth; exports were only 12 percent and 13 percent
of gross domestic product in 2007 and 2008, respectively, while
imports were 17 percent and 18 percent of GDP.  Yet the logic of today’s economy is pushing the dollar down
and exports up and, in turn, aiding the businesses that compete
against imports. There are three forces at work.  First, the coming stand-off between the administration and
Congress rightly worries investors. The Republicans have had a
weak record on fiscal responsibility over the past 30 years,
while the Democrats have failed to explain even to themselves
how the fiscal stimulus prevented the biggest financial shock
since 1929 from becoming another Great Depression.  We have a serious issue with the budget deficit but no
prospect that this will be dealt with in the foreseeable future.
American politics are increasingly seen as dysfunctional by
international investors.  Quantitative Easing  Second, with unemployment obstinately high and fiscal
policy on ice, the Federal Reserve will continue to push down
long-term interest rates. Further rounds of quantitative easing
will tend to weaken the dollar. This is a much more effective
way to move our currency than any foreign-exchange market
intervention even though the Fed will tell you that it really
doesn’t care about the dollar.  Third, emerging-market economies are already booming again
and demanding the kinds of upscale goods and services that the
U.S. is capable of exporting. These emerging markets would like
to resist currency appreciation; they prefer to keep their
current accounts in surplus, following the Chinese model. This
may work for a while, but in this case they will accumulate even
more foreign-exchange holdings and, given the stance of U.S.
policies, these governments will surely diversify more of their
reserves out of dollars.  Global savings will increasingly be parked in Europe, so
the key issue is European fiscal solvency. There are some
potential bumps in that road, notably Ireland. But while Europe
may not boom, it probably won’t default on any sovereign debt.  The dollar is, therefore, likely to depreciate against all
floating currencies. If this happens, the impact on U.S.
 interest rates  will be minimal because the Fed will continue its
easing. Inflation may rise slightly but high unemployment means
the impact will be small, perhaps not even to the 2 percent
annual rate that modern central banks quietly prefer.  The Obama administration is blamed for high unemployment --
the result of a financial mania that was emerged long before it
came to power. It would be a nice irony if, also through no
fault of the administration, jobs return faster than expected as
we head into the 2012 presidential election.  ( Simon Johnson , co-author of “13 Bankers: The Wall Street
Takeover and the Next Financial Meltdown,” is a professor at
MIT’s Sloan School of Management and a Bloomberg News columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Simon Johnson at  sjohnson@mit.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  