-- Obama Returns to College Campus in Election Appeal to `Fire Up' Students
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 2010-09-29T19:31:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/obama-tells-iowa-voters-that-challenges-to-u-s-economy-are-still-great-.html
President  Barack Obama  defended his
economic policies as laying a foundation for long-term growth
while saying the U.S. still faces hurdles in the coming months,
including restoring the millions of jobs lost during the
recession.  The president cited his initiatives to overhaul financial
regulations and the health-care system, to improve public
education and to boost the alternative-energy industry as steps
that will ensure future prosperity and U.S. competitiveness.  “The challenges the economy faces are still great and
they’re not going to go away tomorrow or the next day, but we’re
on the right path,” Obama said to a group of voters in the
backyard of a home in Des Moines, Iowa, his third stop on a
four-state trip.  Obama combined the promotion of his record with criticism
of Republican proposals as he and Democrats are gearing up for
the November congressional elections. The president and other
members of his administration have been attempting to combat
apathy among Democrats in a midterm election year when turnout
typically lags.  The challenge for Obama was illustrated by some of the
questions he faced from an audience of Iowa residents gathered
in the backyard of a home in Des Moines.  ‘Losing Hope’  One woman said her son “campaigned fiercely for you” for
the 2008 election, yet he and his friends are “losing their
hope” as they struggle to find jobs.  “This generation that is coming of age is going through
the toughest economy of any generation since the 1930s,” Obama
said in reply. He said that while his actions on education and
health care will help them in the future, “it’s going to take
some time” before the economy is back at full strength.  “Over the next couple of years, you’re going to start
seeing steadily the economy improving,” Obama said. “And if
young people like your son are prepared, if they’re focused and
equipped, they’re going to be able to find a good job.”  The owner of a small business questioned the president’s
push to allow tax cuts to expire for the 3 percent of taxpayers
who earn more than $200,000 a year and said taxes and regulation
are “strangling” job creation.  Tax Rates  The U.S. can’t afford to keep the lower rates for those
taxpayers passed under former President  George W. Bush , Obama
said in response. Obama has proposed keeping the existing rates
for individuals making less than $200,000 a year and married
couples earning less than $250,000.  “The single biggest reason that we went from a surplus
under  Bill Clinton  to a deficit of record levels when I walked
into office had to do with these Bush tax cuts, because they
weren’t paid for and we didn’t cut anything to match them up,”
he said.  The government had a surplus of $236 billion in fiscal 2000
and ran a  deficit  of $1.4 trillion in fiscal 2009. The
administration projects the  deficit  will hit a record $1.47
trillion this year.  Obama said he favors lowering the tax rate on corporations.
“But the way to do that is to eliminate all the loopholes,” he
said.  Obama said his political opponents haven’t been honest
about what must be done to bolster economic growth.  “Tough choices” still need to be made on taxes and the
budget in the months ahead, he said.  No ‘Shortcuts’  “We’re not going to be able to solve our big problems
unless we honestly address them,” Obama said. “We can’t
pretend that there are shortcuts.”  He also said the U.S. faces “hangover costs” from the
wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, including the cost of caring for
wounded veterans. Obama promised that his administration will
take a “serious look” at the cost of weapons programs to hold
down the deficit.  The economy is the biggest issue for voters in the November
election and Republicans are campaigning against Obama’s
policies in their attempt to overturn Democratic majorities in
the House and Senate.  The 18-month recession, which ended in June 2009, led to
the loss of more than 8.4 million jobs, drove the unemployment
rate close to a 26-year high and contributed to a 26 percent
decline in the median home price. Consumer spending, which
accounts for about 70 percent of the economy, last year declined
the most since 1942.  Battle for Congress  The stakes are high for Obama and the Democrats.
Republicans need a net gain of 39 seats to gain a majority in
the 435-member House of Representatives. The non-partisan Cook
Political Report in Washington forecasts Republicans will gain
at least 40 seats after November’s election. In the Senate,
where Republicans hold 41 of 100 seats, the Cook report says
they are poised to pick up from seven to nine seats.  From Des Moines Obama traveled to Richmond, Virginia, for a
similar event this afternoon before returning to Washington. He
stopped yesterday in Albuquerque, New Mexico, and Madison,
Wisconsin.  Obama told a crowd of mostly college students at the
University of Wisconsin in Madison last night that political
analysts are predicting a Democratic “bloodletting” in the
elections because his supporters have lost their enthusiasm.  “They’re basically saying you’re apathetic, you’re
disappointed,” he said. “We cannot let that happen. We cannot
sit this out.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Des Moines, Iowa, at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
 Nicholas Johnston  in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  