-- Obama Orders Sanctions Against Iranian Officials for Alleged Rights Abuses
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2010-09-29T17:28:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/obama-orders-sanctions-against-iranian-officials-for-alleged-rights-abuses.html
President  Barack Obama  signed an
executive order targeting eight Iranian national security
officials for alleged human rights abuses, increasing pressure
on the country amid a dispute on its nuclear program.  Revolutionary Guard Corps commander  Mohammad Ali Jaafari 
and Intelligence Minister Heydar Moslehi were among those named
in the order. Some of the abuses described by the U.S. involved
actions against election protesters last year.  “We are moving from not just criticisms of the government
but calling out individuals in the government,” Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  said in announcing the new measures today
with Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner .  The order allows the U.S. to block any property or assets
the officials might own in the U.S. All American citizens will
be barred from doing business with the Iranians, who will also
be forbidden from getting visas to travel to the U.S.  Iran is under sanctions by the UN and the U.S. for its
refusal to stop enriching uranium to possible weapons-grade
capability. Iran argues its nuclear research is for civilian
purposes such as medical research and energy, while the U.S. and
its allies accuse Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  of
pursuing a weapons capability.  ‘Pressure Track’  The Obama action is part of what the U.S. calls its
“pressure track” designed to push Iran into international
talks over its nuclear ambitions. Ahmadinejad signaled last week
at the UN that his government is open to such discussions,
possibly this year.  Geithner said the sanctions are putting Iran under
increasing strains. “We’ve seen a growing number of businesses
cut or curtail their business with Iran,” Geithner said. He
added that the U.S. has learned that “Iran’s leadership is
concerned about the implications” of the U.S. measures.  The action also sends a message of U.S. support for human
rights, Clinton said.  Geithner said while he couldn’t give the size or scope of
the targeted holdings of the eight individuals, the effect of
Obama’s order would be cumulative by raising the costs to the
Iranian government for evading financial and trade curbs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Gaouette  in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  