-- Hochtief's Triple-Adviser Defense May Come Three Years Too Late
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2010-09-30T10:39:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/hochtief-s-triple-adviser-takeover-defense-may-come-three-years-too-late.html
Hochtief AG  may find its last stand
against a takeover bid from Spain’s largest builder comes more
than three years too late.  The German construction company is trying to ward off a
takeover proposal from  Actividades de Construccion & Servicios
SA , which already owns almost 30 percent and wants to raise its
stake to just above 50 percent. ACS put in a low bid as it seeks
to gradually absorb Hochtief by buying stock in the open market.  “You must start the fight when you see that danger
approaching,” said  Jochen Winter , a corporate finance lawyer at
Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP in Frankfurt. “It’s too late when
it’s already in your home. Starting the battle at a time when
ACS has its 29.9 percent looks a bit late to me.”  The ACS approach, made public on Sept. 16, blindsided
Hochtief management, even after the Spanish builder had started
accumulating a stake starting in March 2007. ACS has a history
of favoring crawling takeovers to avoid paying premiums.
Hochtief has assembled a team of advisers, including Deutsche
Bank, Credit Suisse Group AG and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to
weigh its options, which lawyers say may be limited.  Poison Pill  German law bars managers from putting in place so-called
poison pills that obstruct a takeover offer unless these steps
had already been part of the company strategy before the bid was
announced, said  Martin Hitzer , a mergers and acquisitions lawyer
at Gleiss Lutz in Dusseldorf.  Neither Hitzer nor Winter are advising Hochtief. The
company has hired law firm Hengeler Mueller as legal adviser.  Change-of-control clauses in finance agreements are
unlikely to deter ACS because bidders routinely renegotiate
terms with banks, Hitzer said. Lobbying for political support
may also prove a dead end because the government can’t block
companies from the European Union, he said.  “The tools you may know from movies about Wall Street
don’t work here,” said Hitzer. “Debt-to-equity swaps,
implementing golden parachutes for executives, all that isn’t
permissible under German law.”  Companies must prepare a defense strategy long before any
potential bid arises, and keep up to date on the plans of the
biggest shareholders, Hitzer said. Hochtief wasn’t warned by ACS
of its intentions, and there has been no contact between the two
sides since the bid, according to Hochtief.  Share Swap  ACS offered eight of its shares for every five of Hochtief,
valuing the bid at 2.7 billion euros and the target company’s
stock at 55.68 euros. That’s 1.1 percent less than the closing
price on Sept. 15, the day before the bid was announced.  ACS needs to offer at least the equivalent of the three-
month average stock exchange price for a Hochtief share, which
the German securities regulator set at to 50.97 euros.  While Hochtief management has refrained from publicly
calling the bid hostile, the company maintains that the offer
doesn’t add value for shareholders. Hochtief created a panel of
supervisory board members to accelerate decision-making and
avoid conflict of interest because it excludes the two
representatives for ACS.  Hochtief’s board holds a special meeting on Oct. 1 to
discuss its next steps, spokesman  Christian Gerhardus  said. The
ACS representatives are entitled to participate in that meeting,
Gerhardus said, declining to disclose details.  Slow Burner  ACS’s history of slowly taking over rivals could have
offered Hochtief a hint that it may be in for a similar
treatment. The Spanish builder merged with Grupo Dragados SL in
2003, first building a 33 percent stake and later combined the
two through an all-share deal that gave investors no premium.  The company also gradually built up a stake in Spanish
power company Union Fenosa SA in 2005, before selling the 45
percent stake again in February 2009. ACS said Sept. 17 that it
still plans to raise its stake in Spanish utility  Iberdrola SA.   ACS has been wary to assure Hochtief partners that a change
of ownership will mean business as usual. The company sent
letters to municipalities that cooperate with the German builder
on public-private-partnerships, according to Hochtief. Hochtief
has more than 10,000 employees in Germany.  One open flank Hochtief may seek to exploit is  ACS’s debt ,
which stood at 10.4 billion euros as of June 30 and risks to
crimp the builder’s financial flexibility. Hochtief, by
comparison, is almost free of debt. The company’s most valuable
asset is its 54 percent stake in Australian builder Leighton
Holdings Inc, a holding worth about as much as Hochtief alone.  No White Knight  “If you can say the company’s existence is in danger
because the bidder is hardly solvent, you may be able to argue
you can employ tools against the bid,” said Hitzer.  Driving up Hochtief’s  share price  would increase the cost
of the takeover for ACS and may act as a deterrent. Still,
German law only lets a company buy back as much as 10 percent of
its own stock. Hochtief has already bought back half that
amount, giving it limited scope to use that tool, Hitzer said.  Given the usual presence at shareholders meetings, ACS
probably already has a de facto majority, weakening defense
options such as bringing in a competing bidder, Winter said.  “Given the time frame, I don’t see the famous White
Knight on the horizon, who could make a fully financed competing
offer,” said Hitzer.  Raising capital and selling a significant stake to a
friendly investor may be impossible for the same reasons, he
said. Now that ACS plans to complete the offer by the end of the
year, Hochtief may find it has run out of options to repel.  “It seems like all those years, Hochtief didn’t listen,”
Winter said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karin Matussek  in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 