-- Mocking ‘Brief Encounter’ Is No Affair to Remember: John Simon
-- B y   J o h n   S i m o n
-- 2010-09-29T02:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/mocking-brief-encounter-is-no-affair-to-remember-john-simon.html
If you know  Noel Coward ’s lovely
one-acter “Still Life” and its beautifully expanded movie
adaptation, “Brief Encounter,” you might expect a similar
thrill from the full-length stage version created by England’s
 Kneehigh Theatre  and presented on Broadway by the  Roundabout
Theatre Company .  What Emma Rice, the adapter and director, has wrought is a
mixed-media event that retains most of the original material
while adding projections, Coward songs dragged in from
elsewhere, and an onstage little band. The result is a hash that
neither honors the original nor justifies spoofing it at such
length.  Laura (Hannah Yelland) and Alec (Tristan Sturrock), both
married with children, meet at a railway junction where Alec, a
doctor, removes some grit from Laura’s eye.  They begin to see each other weekly, when she does the
family shopping and he subs at the local hospital. They meet in
the station cafe, the movies and, once, at a borrowed apartment
where an attempted tryst fails humiliatingly when the owner
prematurely returns.  Projections of crashing ocean waves send up their passion.  Laughing Stock  The comedy is supplied by middle-aged, moralistic cafe
proprietress, Myrtle (Annettte McLaughlin), who is seeing the
similarly middle-aged Albert (Joseph Alessi), the jocular ticket
collector. There’s also Myrtle’s young assistant, Beryl (Dorothy
Atkinson), involved with Stanley (Gabriel Ebert), who sells
goodies from a portable tray.  After Alec announces that he has taken a job in
Johannesburg, he steps before the curtain and sings “Room With
a View,” accompanying himself inexplicably on ukulele.  Equally incongruous are Stanley and Beryl in an early
extended comic chase, during which they sing “Any Little
Fish.” In no more appropriate solos, Myrtle sings a much too
sophisticated Coward lyric, “No Good at Love,” with music by
Barker, and Beryl sings ”Mad About the Boy,” hugging Stanley’s
cello.  Even these are surpassed by the ending, wherein Laura,
suddenly a virtuoso, sits down at her piano and pounds out the
Rachmaninoff second piano concerto, which served as background
music for the movie version. Behind her, those waves are
crashing, grandiose as ever.  Pity the actors caught in this bastardization, especially
Yelland and Sturrock, fighting memories of Celia Johnson and
Trevor Howard, unsurpassable in the movie version. Also Alessi,
saddled with conspicuously doubling Albert and Fred, Laura’s
husband.  And to think that this farrago received critical encomia in
various venues!  Through Dec. 5 at Studio 54, 254 W. 54th St. Information:
+1-212-719-1300;  http://www.roundabouttheatre.org 
Rating: *  (John Simon is the New York drama critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Simon in New York at  jis1925@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 