-- Tokyo Electric Slumps to 8-Year Low After `Questionable' Share-Sale Plan
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a ,   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 2010-09-30T07:51:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/tokyo-electric-power-to-raise-as-much-as-6-6-billion-in-public-share-sale.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. , Asia’s
largest electricity generator, fell to the lowest in almost
eight years amid investor concern that its first equity offering
in three decades will dilute shareholder value.  The  stock  fell 3.3 percent to close at 2,036 yen in Tokyo,
the lowest since Dec. 9, 2002. The benchmark Topix Index lost
about 2.1 percent. The company known as Tepco has declined 12.4
percent in a week.  The operator of the world’s biggest nuclear power station
plans to raise as much as 555 billion yen ($6.6 billion) by
issuing 254.15 million shares in Japan and overseas, Tepco said
in a filing yesterday. The proceeds will be used to build atomic
generators and fund a liquefied natural gas venture.  “It’s questionable whether they really need it right
now,” said  Hideo Arimura , who helps oversee $2.2 billion at
Mizuho Asset Management Co. in Tokyo, including Tepco shares.
“If their stock price gets a lot cheaper, we would consider
increasing our holdings. I wouldn’t say I find their shares
especially attractive.”  Tepco is building a reactor in northern Japan to cut
carbon-dioxide emissions and has an accord to invest in a
nuclear plant in the U.S. to counter slowing sales growth at
home as population shrinks. The offering will be the first by
the utility since 1981 and it has relied on  debt-financing  for
projects, spokesman  Masayuki Kishino  said yesterday.  ‘Best Option’  The utility’s debt is rated AA by Standard & Poor’s and Aa2
by Moody’s Investors Service, the third-highest credit rankings
issued by the two rating companies. Tepco’s total debt was  more
than four times  the size of its common equity in the quarter
ended June 30, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “In considering various methods, we have decided that
raising funds through a capital increase is the best option to
achieve our 10-year growth strategy while maintaining financial
health,” Daisuke Hirose, spokesman for Tepco, said by telephone
from Tokyo today. He declined to comment on investor concerns
about dilution of shareholder value.  Tepco plans to sell 176.8 million shares in Japan and 44.2
million shares overseas and has a total over-allotment option of
33.15 million shares, according to the sale terms. The shares
will be priced between Oct. 12 and Oct. 14.  The company has 1.35 billion outstanding shares and a
market value of $33.4 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  ‘Why Now?’  “This capital-raising plan doesn’t make sense because the
company has enough  cash flow  to meet its overseas investment
target in the next decade,” said  Masanori Maruo , an analyst at
Barclays Capital, who rates the stock “overweight/neutral,”
with a target price of 2,930 yen. “So, why now?”  Of the proceeds, 220 billion yen will be allocated to the
utility’s project in Aomori Prefecture of northern Japan, Tepco
said. The company will start work on a 1,385-megawatt nuclear
plant in the village of Higashi-Dori in the prefecture, with
commercial operation slated to begin by March 2017.  Tokyo Electric  expects to spend 285 billion yen on its
overseas projects, including a liquefied natural gas project in
Australia and a nuclear-plant project in Texas, according to the
statement. The utility will spend 50 billion yen to construct a
gas-fired, 500-megawatt generator in Kawasaki City near Tokyo.  In May, the Japanese utility clinched a $125 million deal
to buy a 9.2 percent stake in the South Texas nuclear project
from Nuclear Innovation North America LLC, a joint venture
formed between Princeton, New Jersey-based NRG Energy Inc. and
Toshiba Corp. Tepco also agreed to pay $30 million for an option
to double its project stake.  Earnings Outlook  Tepco posted  net income  of 133.8 billion yen in the year
ended March following back-to-back annual losses after a
powerful earthquake struck northern Japan in July 2007, forcing
the utility to shut its biggest nuclear power plant. In the
current financial year, profit may be 65 billion yen, the
company said June. 30.  “Considering Tepco’s earnings in the past, investors
wouldn’t expect a good return even after the capital
expansion,” said  Yoji Takeda , who helps manage about $1.1
billion as the head of Asian equities at RBC Investment (Asia)
Ltd. in Hong Kong. “It’s still unclear how and for what the
company wants to use the huge amount of money they will get from
the share sale.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tsuyoshi Inajima  in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
 Shigeru Sato  in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
 Anna Kitanaka  in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net . 