-- Tepco Falls Most in Almost Two Years in Tokyo Trading on Share Sale Report
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   M i c h i o   N a k a y a m a
-- 2010-09-29T03:35:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/tokyo-electric-plunges-most-in-two-years-on-report-of-600-billion-yen-sale.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. , Asia’s
largest utility, plunged the most in almost two years after the
Nikkei newspaper reported the company may sell as much as 600
billion yen ($7.1 billion) of new stock.  The shares dropped 7.5 percent to 2,110 yen at 12:31 p.m.
on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, headed for the biggest loss since
Oct. 10, 2008.  The Topix Electric Power & Gas Index  fell 2.7
percent while the benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 0.8
percent.  The Japanese energy company will spend the funds to build
nuclear power plants and expand overseas, the Nikkei said,
without citing anyone.  Masayuki Kishino , a Tokyo Electric
spokesman, said the company wasn’t the source of the report and
it had nothing to disclose.  “Tokyo Electric doesn’t need to raise capital on such a
large scale by selling shares,” said  Tomohiro Jikihara , a
Tokyo-based analyst at Deutsche Bank. “The company has good
credit ratings and shouldn’t face any problems in raising debt
to fund projects.”  The utility’s debt is rated AA by Standard & Poor’s and Aa2
by Moody’s Investors Service, the third-highest credit rankings
issued by the two ratings companies.  Investment Plans  Tokyo Electric plans to invest as much as 3.5 trillion yen
in low-carbon technologies by 2020 to help meet domestic and
overseas demand for cleaner power generation. The 10-year plan
may help Japan meet its goal of spurring economic growth by
exporting cutting-edge generation technologies, including
nuclear reactors and smart grids, to developing countries.  “Although we always consider the appropriate capital
policies, we don’t have anything we should announce at this
time,” the company known as Tepco said in a filing to the Tokyo
Stock Exchange.  Concerns about dilution may pull down the shares in the
short term,  Hiroyuki Sakaida , a Tokyo-based analyst at Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., said in a report today. “The shares may
rebound as Tokyo Electric may raise its dividend to 70 yen in
the next one to two years,” he wrote.  Tepco plans a 60 yen  dividend  for the year ending March
2011.  Kansai Electric Power Co. fell 2.6 percent and Chubu
Electric Power Co. declined 2.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tsuyoshi Inajima  in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash in Singapore at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 