-- London Stock Exchange Says U.K. Market Share Has Been `Stable' This Year
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2010-09-29T16:18:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/london-stock-exchange-says-u-k-market-share-has-been-stable-this-year.html
London Stock Exchange Group Plc 
said its share of U.K. equity trading was “broadly stable”
over the first five months of the fiscal year as Europe’s oldest
independent bourse seeks to stem losses to rivals.  The exchange’s share of trading of U.K. stocks in the five
months ended Aug. 31 was an average 62.6 percent of total cash
equities, the London-based company said today in a Regulatory
News Service statement. That compares with 60 percent in April,
the month before the exchange changed its tariffs.  Since starting in May last year, LSE Chief Executive
Officer  Xavier Rolet  has been trying to diversify LSE’s business
and stem its loss of market share to multilateral trading
facilities such as Bats Europe and Chi-X Europe Ltd.  Rolet 
bought Colombo, Sri Lanka-based MillenniumIT last year to
overhaul LSE’s technology.  “While margins have declined, we believe it is far more
important that the LSE has maintained its market share,”  James Hamilton , an analyst at Numis Securities Ltd., wrote in a note
to investors today. “The LSE remains strategically well placed
to benefit from improved equity market conditions.”  Numis Downgrade  Hamilton, who has a 725 pence share-price estimate for LSE,
today cut his recommendation to  “hold”  from “add,” citing
the “recent share price performance.” LSE shares slipped 0.8
percent to close at 693.5 pence in London trading today,
trimming this month’s rally to 5 percent.  LSE’s yield on U.K. cash equities trading fell to 0.71
basis points from 0.94 basis points, according to Numis.
Trading on LSE’s markets in the second quarter has been lower so
far this year, averaging at a daily 4.2 billion pounds ($6.6
billion), the exchange said.  Turquoise, a rival in which LSE bought a controlling stake,
had a 3.2 percent market share in the period, LSE said today,
compared with 4.3 percent in April.  In a separate statement today, the Turquoise trading system
said it plans a two-month “pricing promotion” and will charge
less for some orders as the market seeks to attract business.  LSE, which in February bought a controlling stake in
Turquoise, a platform owned by its biggest customers, will move
the system onto new technology from Millennium on Oct. 4. LSE
plans to move stocks on its main market to the new technology on
Nov. 1. Turquoise operates on a so-called maker/taker model,
offering a rebate to market participants who add liquidity and
charging those who remove it.  “Performance for the year to date reflects the
continuation of generally variable market conditions,” Rolet
said today. “Actions taken to improve U.K. equities trading are
taking effect, with share of trading resilient in the past few
months and recent announcements of fee reductions for clearing
by third party providers will help reduce the total cost of
trading.”  LSE plans to report fiscal first-half earnings on Nov. 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nandini Sukumar  in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 