-- Lone Star Funds Won't Get Additional Pledge From Oregon State Pension Fund
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2010-09-29T22:31:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/lone-star-property-funds-won-t-get-additional-pledge-from-oregon-pension.html
Oregon’s state pension plan decided
against increasing its investment in two real estate funds being
raised by Lone Star Funds, the Dallas-based investment firm
specializing in distressed mortgages and other property assets.  The Oregon Investment Council voted today at its monthly
meeting to keep its investment in Lone Star Fund VII and Lone
Star Real Estate Fund II at $400 million,  James Sinks , a state
Treasury spokesman, said in a telephone interview. When that
commitment was made last September, Oregon had said it would
consider adding another $400 million in 2010. The council
invests the $51 billion  Oregon Public Employees Retirement Fund .  Lone Star has struggled to invest money from its funds as
debt financing shrinks and sellers keep assets from the market
after price declines. As of Sept. 1, Lone Star Fund VII had
invested $115 million in three transactions, according to
documents released by Oregon. Lone Star Real Estate Fund II
hasn’t made any investments, the documents show.  Oregon voted today to split its $400 million equally
between the two Lone Star funds, Sinks said. The state
originally put $300 million in Lone Star Real Estate Fund II,
which holds commercial real estate, and $100 million in Lone
Star Fund VII, which aims to buy residential distressed debt and
property-owning entities such as banks.  Oregon has invested profitably with Lone Star for 15 years
and the firm represents almost 17 percent of the state pension’s
real estate holdings based on net asset values, and more than 20
percent of unfunded commitments to real estate, according to the
documents. This so-called manager concentration was cited as a
reason for not putting more money into Lone Star’s funds.  Unless Lone Star seeks and is granted an extension, its
fund-raising deadline will expire Nov. 30, according to the
documents. Lone Star originally set out to raise $20 billion for
its two newest funds. It later scaled that back to $10 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hui-yong Yu  in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  