-- Hong Kong Sites May Lure Smaller Hong Kong Builders at Auction
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2010-09-29T01:00:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/hong-kong-land-sale-may-lure-smaller-developers-priced-out-of-luxury-sites.html
Hong Kong’s government may today
sell two residential sites to smaller  developers  that have been
priced out by bigger rivals at auctions held to cool a property
market that has surged to the highs of a previous peak in 1997.  The plots in the Fan Ling district in the New Territories
and Chai Wan on the Hong Kong Island may fetch a combined HK$1.1
billion ($142 million), according to the median estimate of five
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. At those prices the sites
would be the cheapest sold in a government  auction  this
financial year.  Hong Kong Financial Secretary John Tsang has increased
sales of government land in a bid to curb home values that have
 surged  46 percent in the past year. Prices have exceeded
estimates in both auctions held since the government stepped up
measures to cool the property market Aug. 13.  “The big developers may be more conservative this time,”
said  James Cheung , a director at the surveying arm of  Centaline
Property Agency Ltd.  “The sizes of the plots are smaller than
the previous auctions so profit margins may not be as high. They
are likely to attract more medium- to small-sized developers.”  Cheung Kong (Holdings) Ltd. , Hong Kong’s second-biggest
developer, paid more than estimated for two building sites on
the Kowloon Peninsula four days after the government on Aug. 13
lifted down payments on some properties and announced it would
sell more land for development.  Kerry Properties Ltd. , controlled by the family of
Malaysian tycoon Robert Kuok, on Aug. 31 paid HK$1.29 billion
for a 77,469-square-foot plot in the Kowloon Tong district. The
per-square-foot price of HK$16,587 is a record for the Kowloon
Peninsula.  Mass Residential Units  Today’s auction will be the seventh in the current fiscal
year and was initiated by the government.  The Fan Ling site has buildable area of 157,345 square feet
and is forecast to be sold for HK$370 million, according to the
Bloomberg News survey. The Chai Wan land has 155,346 square feet
and is estimated to fetch HK$700 million.  The two sites may be developed into mass residential units,
according to Centaline’s Cheung. Hong Kong’s government defines
luxury apartments as those with an area of more than 1,000
square feet or valued at HK$10 million or above.  Most government land sales in recent years, including the
last auction, have been triggered by developers who promised to
pay minimum amounts for sites on a list of available lots under
the so-called land application system. Regular government land
auctions have been partially resumed this year after they were
halted in 2004 to support falling home prices.  Surging Prices  Hong Kong’s government is closely monitoring the property
market and may introduce further measures to contain prices if
they continue to escalate, a Ming Pao report on Sept. 1 quoted
Financial Secretary Tsang as saying.  Hong Kong home prices -- especially of luxury properties --
have been pushed up by record low mortgage rates and an influx
of mainland Chinese buyers. They are now on par with the level
of 1997, the height of a previous bubble that was followed by a
six-year slump.  Hong Kong property stocks  have advanced 11 percent since
the government announced the new curbs in August, compared with
the 2.1 percent increase in the benchmark Hang Seng Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kelvin Wong  in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  