-- Monsanto’s SmartStax Won’t Top Triples, Goldman Says
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2010-09-29T20:32:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/monsanto-smartstax-won-t-outyield-triple-stack-goldman-says.html
Monsanto Co. ’s SmartStax corn, a
new seed with eight genetic changes, probably won’t yield more
than a less-expensive technology that has three added genes,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts said.  Monsanto still will increase its corn-seed sales because
the new technology provides a yield benefit by allowing farmers
to reduce plantings of conventional corn, Goldman Sachs analysts
led by  Robert Koort  said today in a report. Regulators require
conventional corn to be sown near insect-killing corn to prevent
bugs from developing insecticide resistance.  “We no longer expect SmartStax to outyield its robust
triple stacks,” Houston-based Koort said in the report. “Yield
parity is the new target.” Koort reduced the share-price target
for the world’s largest seed producer to $64 from $71.  Monsanto Chief Executive Officer  Hugh Grant  is counting on
SmartStax, billed in December as “the highest yielding corn
product available,” to halt  DuPont Co. ’s recent market-share
gains and help boost annual profit 13 percent to 17 percent
after earnings from Roundup herbicide collapsed.  Monsanto  fell  75 cents, or 1.5 percent, to $48 at 4:15 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  The shares  have
tumbled 15 percent since the St. Louis-based company said on
Sept. 20 that early harvest data showed some SmartStax corn
hybrids were missing yield projections.  Jefferies Report  SmartStax corn yields in Iowa are so far trailing so-called
triple stacks, which have three genetic modifications, by 3
percent to 5 percent,  Laurence Alexander , an analyst at
Jefferies & Co., said yesterday. Koort said the gap may narrow
as the harvest extends north into regions with more insect
infestation.  “While the early harvest data is disappointing, we believe
developments are not as poor as implied” by the stock’s
performance, Koort said in the report. Goldman maintained its
2011 earnings estimate of $2.87 a share and its “neutral”
rating on the shares.  Deutsche Bank AG analysts led by  David Begleiter  said in a
report today that the share-price decline is “overdone.” They
said the yield under-performance is correctable because it was
caused by one specific variety of seed, known as DeKalb 61-21,
not the SmartStax technology that was applied to that seed.  The Deutsche Bank analysts cut their 2011 earnings estimate
by 10 cents a share to $2.80 to reflect costs that Monsanto may
incur under its SmartStax satisfaction guarantee. They lowered
their share-price target by $5 to $65 and maintained their
“buy” rating.  Monsanto Policy  Monsanto will provide credits for future seed purchases to
farmers who are dissatisfied with SmartStax corn seed,  Kelli Powers , a company spokeswoman, said yesterday.  SmartStax, developed with Dow Chemical Co., is still
expected to yield 5 percent to 10 percent more than triple
stacks when all the data is collected, Powers said. Better
genetics, insect resistance and the requirement for a smaller
refuge of conventional corn will improve yields, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jack Kaskey  in New York at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey@bloomberg.net  