-- U.K. Mortgage Approvals Fall as Housing Market Slows
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2010-09-29T09:58:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/mortgage-approvals-fall-as-housing-market-slows-amid-government-cutbacks.html
U.K.  mortgage lending  fell for a
fourth month in August, adding to signs the housing-market
recovery is faltering as the prospect of budget cuts looms.  Lenders granted 47,372 loans to buy homes, compared with a
revised 48,346 in July, the Bank of England said today in
London. Economists  forecast  that approvals would decrease to
47,000 from an initially reported 48,700 in July, based on the
median forecast of 16 economists in Bloomberg News survey.  The report suggests housing demand is weakening as banks
keep credit tight and Britons brace for the deepest spending
squeeze since World War II to reduce the record budget deficit.
The Bank of England this month kept the benchmark interest rate
unchanged at 0.5 percent this month and held its bond-purchase
plan at 200 billion pounds ($317 billion).  “When you look at the way mortgage approvals have just
flat-lined over the last few months despite all the quantitative
easing and  low interest rates , that’s quite worrying,”  Hetal Mehta , a U.K. economist at Daiwa Capital Markets Europe Ltd. in
London, said in a telephone interview. “There are clearly quite
a lot of concerns about public spending cuts, that’s going to
have a big impact on unemployment, and banks are still reluctant
to lend. House prices will deteriorate further.”  The pound was little changed against the dollar after the
report and was at $1.5819 as of 10:28 a.m. in London. It was up
0.1 percent on the day.  Posen’s View  Home values  dropped the most in 18 months in September,
Hometrack Ltd. said Sept. 27. Bank of England policy maker  Adam Posen  said yesterday the central bank should restart its asset-
purchase program to prevent persistent slow economic growth.  The August approvals figure was the lowest since February
and less than half the level at the peak of the housing boom in
2007.  Net mortgage lending was 1.66 billion pounds in August,
compared with 18 million pounds the previous month, the Bank of
England said. Gross home loans were little changed at 11.3
billion pounds.  Consumers reduced borrowing by 120 million pounds last
month, the biggest net repayment since November last year.
Credit-card lending rose a net 123 million pounds while personal
loans and overdrafts fell 243 million pounds.  Money Supply  A measure of M4 money-supply growth that the central bank
uses to assess the effectiveness of its asset purchases rose 4.5
percent in the three months through August on an annualized
basis, the least since February and down from 5.1 percent in
July. The gauge excludes financial companies that specialize in
intermediating between banks, such as holding companies and non-
bank credit grantors.  M4 , the broadest measure of money supply, fell 0.1 percent
on the month and was 1.9 percent higher than a year earlier.
That’s the lowest annualized growth since monthly records began
in 1983.  Separate data released today by the Office for National
Statistics showed Britain’s service industries contracted for a
second month in July as government output dropped. Services,
which account for three quarters of the economy, shrank 0.2
percent from the previous month, when they declined by the same
amount, the statistics office said in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  