-- Toshiba Completes Second Plant to Make Lithium-Ion Batteries for Vehicles
-- B y   J a s o n   C l e n f i e l d   a n d   M i k a k o   N a k a j i m a
-- 2010-09-29T04:54:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/toshiba-completes-second-plant-to-make-lithium-ion-batteries-for-vehicles.html
Toshiba Corp. , a Japanese
electronics and power-equipment maker, completed construction
today of a second lithium-ion battery plant to meet rising
demand for electric vehicles.  The plant in Kashiwazaki city, northeast of Tokyo, will
start mass production in February with initial monthly capacity
of 500,000 cells, Toshiba said in a statement today. The factory
will produce quick-charging batteries for electric vehicles
ranging from motorcycles to forklifts and cars and cost about 25
billion yen ($299 million), the company said earlier.  While lithium-ion batteries are still used mostly in
laptops and mobile phones, competition is heating up among
electronics makers to supply cells for electric vehicles.
Toshiba said in July it was in talks with  Mitsubishi Motors
Corp. , which currently gets batteries from GS Yuasa Corp.  “What will determine the medium-term survivability of
these battery makers is their relationship with the car
companies,” said  Xiaomai Feng , an analyst at Macquarie Group
Ltd. in Tokyo. “Everybody’s trying to team up.”  The market for lithium-ion batteries will more than
quadruple to 4.5 trillion yen in the next decade, according to
Nomura Research Institute Ltd. Most of the growth in demand for
the cells may come from automakers, with sales of batteries in
electric, hybrid and plug-in hybrid cars projected to increase
to 1.7 trillion yen in 2020 from almost zero last year,
according to March estimates at Daiwa Securities Group Inc.  Nissan-NEC Venture  Toshiba gained 1.2 percent to 410 yen as of 1:28 p.m. in
Tokyo trading, while the benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose
0.9 percent.  Nissan Motor Co. , Japan’s third-largest carmaker, has a
venture with NEC Corp. which supplies the lithium-ion cells for
its Leaf, a battery-powered vehicle that goes on sale in
December. Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  estimates
electric vehicles will account for 10 percent of all car sales
by 2020, assuming oil costs more than $70 a barrel.  The Yokohama-based carmaker has booked more than 26,000
orders for the Leaf, and Ghosn has said he aims to have capacity
to build 500,000 electric cars annually by the end of 2012.  Mitsubishi Motors has sold about 3,100 of its i-Miev
battery-powered compact car. The vehicle, the world’s first
fully electric, mass-produced car, is powered by a lithium-ion
battery from  GS Yuasa , a Kyoto-based company that also has a
joint venture supplying cells to  Honda Motor Co.  for hybrid
vehicles.  LG Chem  Mitsubishi denied a report in the Nikkei newspaper this
week that it plans to develop battery technology with South
Korea’s  LG Chem Ltd.   Toshiba, which withdrew from a lithium-ion battery business
focused on portable electronics in 2004, has reentered the
industry and is aiming for annual battery sales of 200 billion
yen by fiscal year 2015. The company is targeting overall
revenue of 8 trillion yen by fiscal 2012.  Toshiba’s  SCiB , or super-charge ion, cells can be recharged
to 90 percent of full capacity in five minutes, according to the
company. It has a second battery plant in Japan’s Nagano
prefecture that also makes the batteries. The electronics maker
doesn’t provide information on the price of the cells.  The company said in July it will supply batteries to
Shimano Inc. for use in  electric bicycles . Honda has also chosen
the company’s battery for an  electric motorcycle  it will release
in December.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Clenfield  in Tokyo at 
 jclenfield@bloomberg.net ;
 Mikako Nakajima  in Tokyo at 
 mikako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  