-- Nuela Serves $250 Pig, $90 Steak, No Trendy Burger: Ryan Sutton
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2010-09-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/oversize-nuela-serves-250-pigs-90-steaks-shuns-burgers-ryan-sutton.html
What kind of fairy-tale world begat
Nuela, a glitzy, global-Latin mess hall that dabbles in South
American, French, Italian and Asian cuisines? We’ve already bid
farewell to the pan-African Merkato 55, while the Indian-Latin
Vermilion has enough spare capacity to handle a prime-time party
of 20 any day of the week.  And now the 200-seat  Nuela , rarely as full as it could be,
brings us a fine swine take on Peking duck.  Sprinkle the white flesh with sea salt. Wrap in scallion
pancake. Dip into guava glaze. Repeat. The milky loin yields
with little resistance; chewy meat and crispy skin emit a
lingering porcine perfume. A whole hog is $250; $65 gets you a
quarter.  Food like this separates Nuela from big-box behemoths like
Tao or Buddakan. A humble chicken soup is smoked, slicked with
chili oil and served with a slab of swine belly. Outstanding.  They should sell the brilliant broth out of a truck as the
weather turns chilly, and that’s what brings us to the bad news.  Nuela’s owners seem to think this gutsy, haute-street grub
is best enjoyed in a series of red and orange rooms that evoke a
discarded set from “Sex and the City.”  A downstairs foyer glows from beneath like a Martian
landscape; upstairs, exposed filament bulbs burn so bright that
dining companions can appear as silhouettes. The thumping new
age Andean beats come off like a Southern Hemispheric cross
between club and elevator music.  Chef Adam Schop, an acolyte of Douglas Rodriguez, a
godfather of Nuevo-Latino cooking, sometimes lets his worldwide-
wedding-buffet tendencies get the better of him.  Another riff, this time on the classic Cuban sandwich,
involved a bland, breaded pork patty. A friend’s off-the-menu
request for black beans with rice yielded sticky, Chinese-style
grains and a mushy legume puree. Sea urchin, typically powerful
with brininess, was manipulated into an undetectable crust in an
otherwise competent, forgettable short-rib dish.  Offal Friendly  Still, Schop deserves credit for giving New Yorkers an
offbeat, offal-friendly restaurant (try the grilled hearts) that
mostly refuses to bow to culinary trends. There’s not a single
gourmet pizza, $20 hamburger or fish taco on the menu. There is
one sad nod to the city’s obsession with Italian fare; avoid the
gritty parmesan-crusted scallops with gnocchi and tomatoes.  Schop’s hand is defter with ceviches; drizzles of lime make
them closer to sashimi than citrus-cooked fish. Madai with
smoked tomato doesn’t so much cause the mouth to pucker; it
rather whets the palate for some bite-size brisket arepas later
on, and perhaps a beastly ribeye for two ($90). The dry-aged,
perfectly charred cow was tamed by a shock of sour chimichurri.
Nice.  If only lots of seats meant lots of space. There were just
inches between the back of my seat and the wall behind me, even
fewer after I finished destroying the duck rice for two ($60).
Imagine this: meaty confit, rare breast, sliced gizzard, jiggly
foie gras all over a bed of al dente grains.  Great Paella  There was a mind-numbingly good paella, undercut by a mind-
numbing absurdity: Mathematically challenged staff, perhaps to
instigate fights over the last bite, brought three dulce du
leche cookies as a parting gift for my party of two, then four
cookies for our party of three, then zero on a final visit,
which was for the best because they’re tooth-achingly sweet.  I suppose it’s easy for a venue this big to lose count.  Rating: *  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: Dishes are $6-$250.  Sound Level: Loud, 75-80 decibels.  Date Place? Maybe not. Think of those skewered hearts.  Inside tip: Saccharine signature cocktails are bested by
competent classics, like mojitos and caipirinhas  Special feature: The foams on desserts are often better
than the desserts themselves.  Will I be back: For the duck.  Nuela is at 43 W. 24th St. at Sixth Avenue. Information:
+1-212-929-1200 or  http://www.nuelany.com .  
Sound-Level Chart (in decibels):  51 to 55: Church on a weekday. 56 to 60: The vegetable aisle at
the Food Emporium. 61 to 65: Keyboards clacking at the office.
66 to 70: My alarm clock when it goes off inches from my ear. 71
to 75: Corner deli at lunchtime. 76 to 80: Back of a taxi with
advertisements at full volume. 81 to 85: Loud, crowded subway
with announcements.  ( Ryan Sutton  writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 