-- How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Yen: William Pesek
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2010-09-29T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/how-i-learned-to-stop-worrying-and-love-yen-commentary-by-william-pesek.html
If you want to know what’s wrong
with Japan’s economy, start with  Kazuo Mizuno .  At 56, the government aide is too junior to have much say
in seniority-based Japan. That’s too bad. Mizuno is the highest-
ranking official in many a year to speak the truth about the
yen: Japan has much to gain from a strong currency.  This mere suggestion is heresy in Tokyo, and expect Mizuno
to get some very testy phone calls this week. Perhaps even the
odd suggestion that he should consider an early, early
retirement. Yet the deputy director-general of economic
assessment at Japan’s  Cabinet Office  is absolutely right.  Japan’s preference for seniority-based leadership is a
self-imposed straitjacket that restricts fresh thinking. By the
time politicians rise to power, they are 100 percent convinced
the strong yen is the main force holding the nation back. Sadly,
Mizuno is too far down on the political food chain to push his
let-the-yen-strengthen argument.  To many in Tokyo, his idea has a “Dr. Strangelove”
quality. Only in Japan’s case, a few currency strategists joked
to me, it’s not “How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the
Bomb” but “How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Strong
Yen.” Unlike director  Stanley Kubrick ’s unhinged American
general, there’s nothing crazy about Mizuno.  Kan’s Intervention  Markets ignored Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s recent
intervention efforts. The yen is near where it was on Sept. 14,
the day before Japan’s first official attempt to drive it lower
in six years.  Traders know what Japan doesn’t. The yen is strengthening
because other major currencies are weakening for fundamental
reasons. The Federal Reserve, for example, may soon embark on
another round of quantitative easing. That will push the yen
higher no matter how many yen Japan dumps in markets.  Let’s accentuate the positive. The strong dollar championed
by U.S. President  Bill Clinton ’s administration in the 1990s
showed how a stronger currency can be a magnet for the foreign
investment that tends to avoid Japan. It supports stocks and
keeps long-term interest rates in check. Most importantly, it’s
the ultimate sign of confidence in your economy.  There’s no more faith in Japan’s outlook in Tokyo than in
the trading pits of London and  New York . Japan forgets that when
its multidecade funk finally ends, the yen will be strong, and
probably much stronger than it is today.  Poor Trajectory  The yen has become self-defeating dogma, not unlike views
on deflation. Whether you work at the Bank of Japan in Tokyo,
drive a taxi in Osaka or sell insurance policies in Kagoshima,
you tend to believe deflation is what’s holding down the
economy. Consumer prices are weak because the nation’s
trajectory is so poor. A lack of confidence is the reason
interest rates are at zero and growth isn’t much higher. A
weaker yen won’t defeat deflation -- only a wholesale
revitalization of Japan’s economic system can do that.  “Japan should change its structure to raise living
standards using the strong yen,” Mizuno said this week.  On top of the usual benefits, a strong  yen  would encourage
overseas mergers and acquisitions to make the nation more
competitive. It would empower Japan to purchase mining rights
for natural resources. It would change Japan for the better.  Here’s another heretical view: Deflation has its benefits
in an economy as rigid as Japan’s. True, falling prices are a
nightmare for property owners and debt holders. It hurts
corporate profits, depresses wages and eats into tax revenue.  Stealth Tax Cut  Yet falling prices are the closest thing to a break that
highly taxed Japanese consumers enjoyed in many a year. It has
been a kind of stealth tax cut that, at the margin, is helping
the growing ranks of the working poor make ends meet.  More importantly, deflation forced major change in the
bloated, inefficient economy. It’s a destabilizing force that
politicians and corporate executives can’t control. It shook up
the nation’s labyrinthine distribution system that involves
middlemen and keeps prices high. It pushed companies to become
more competitive.  Deflation was the phenomenon that finally got banks to
reduce bad loans. A dozen years of waiting for growth to bail
out Japan came to naught. It’s no coincidence that bad-debt
writedowns accelerated once it became clear that deflation
wasn’t a passing fad.  Acceptance of a strong yen may unleash similar “animal
spirits” of which  John Maynard Keynes  spoke. Sony Corp. would
have to rely more on developing must-have products. Honda Motor
Co. would have to focus more on raising productivity.  Japan
Airlines Corp . would have to be more efficient. The government
would have to tweak corporate taxes in favor of startups that
create new jobs, not the national champions of the past.  Japan has spent an exorbitant amount of time worrying about
the yen and trying to weaken it. Kan’s three-month-old
government is proving to be no different. Japan really should
learn to love a strong yen.  ( William Pesek  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  