-- Toyota Forms Task Force on Rare Earth Metals Amid China Export Ban Reports
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2010-09-29T03:22:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/toyota-forms-team-on-rare-earth-metals-amid-china-export-ban-.html
Toyota Motor Corp.  has set up a
task force on rare earth minerals used in hybrid cars amid
reports of China’s ban on exports of the materials to Japan.  The carmaker, the world’s largest producer of gasoline-
electric vehicles, said it formed the committee, confirming
a report in the Nikkan Kogyo newspaper today. Japanese
companies are looking to diversify supply with Lynas Corp., a
Sydney-based miner of rare earth metals, saying it had signed a
contract with an unnamed Japanese customer.  Rare earth minerals such as neodymium and dysprosium are
used in electric-motor magnets in hybrid cars, including
Toyota’s Prius and  Honda Motor Co .’s Insight, and in mobile
phones and rechargeable batteries. China, which controls more
than 90 percent of the global market for the metals, imposed a
“de facto” ban last week on exports to Japan of the materials,
a group of 17 metals used in weapons, hybrid vehicles and laptop
computers, Japanese Economy Minister  Banri Kaieda  said yesterday.  “The Chinese won’t hesitate to change the rules to improve
their situation,” Peter Strachan, a Perth-based analyst for
independent advisory firm StockAnalysis, said in a phone
interview today. “China has restricted rare earths sales to
everyone, not just Japan.”  Chen Rongkai , a spokesman for China’s Ministry of Commerce,
reiterated yesterday that the nation hasn’t imposed an export
ban.  Export Restrictions  Toyota  rose  0.5 percent in Tokyo to 3,090 yen as of the 11
a.m. trading break, while the benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average
gained 0.6 percent.  Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry said it
will investigate China’s export policy on rare earth metals. The
government will check with about 30 domestic companies including
manufacturers and trading houses to confirm whether China has
banned the shipments, Tsutomu Murasaki, director of the
ministry’s non-ferrous metals division, told reporters at a
briefing in Tokyo on Sept. 28.  Restrictions disproportionately affect Japan because it
accounts for 65 percent of Chinese rare earth metal exports,
according to a Sept. 24 report by Macquarie Group Ltd.  Prices for rare earth metals have risen this year with
surging demand and cuts to China’s export quotas, affecting
automakers such as Toyota, Honda and Nissan Motor Co., which
require the elements for vehicle development, Macquarie said.  Toyota spokesman  Paul Nolasco  confirmed the company has set
up such a task force.
31  Alternative Sources  The automaker began exploring alternative sources before
the recent reports on export restrictions, Nolasco said.  Toyota Tsusho Corp. , a trading company affiliated with the
carmaker, has formed a joint venture with Sojitz Corp. and a
Vietnamese state-run mining company to export rare earth metals
to Japan from 2012, spokesman Katsutoshi Yokoi said. The company
acquired Tokyo-based rare earth metal importer Wako Bussan Co.
in December 2008, which will import materials from India from
next year, Yokoi said.  Lynas. , building a A$550 million ($532 million) rare earth
minerals project in Australia, said today it had agreed to
supply a Japanese customer and that it is also in talks with
potential customers in Europe, Japan and the U.S.  “Lynas is extremely pleased to sign this contract with one
of the leading companies in their specific market,” Executive
Chairman  Nicholas Curtis  said, without naming the buyer. The
rare earth materials will be supplied from the company’s Mt.
Weld project and produced at its plant in Kuantan, Malaysia,
when it starts up next year.  Shiori Hashimoto , a Tokyo-based spokeswoman for Toyota,
declined to say whether Toyota is the customer, adding that the
carmaker indirectly procures rare metals through parts suppliers.  The automaker has said it plans to sell 1 million hybrid
cars a year during the early part of this decade and offer
hybrid versions of all of its models by 2020.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Makiko Kitamura  in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  