-- Pakistan Central Bank Raises Interest Rate to Slow Inflation After Floods
-- B y   F a r h a n   S h a r i f
-- 2010-09-29T12:00:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/pakistan-central-bank-raises-interest-rate-to-slow-inflation-after-floods.html
Pakistan’s central bank raised its
benchmark interest rate for the second time in two months to
cool inflation after the nation’s most devastating floods washed
away crops, roads and bridges.  The State Bank of Pakistan increased the discount rate to
13.5 percent from 13 percent,  Syed Wasimuddin , a central bank
spokesman said in Karachi today. Thirteen of 21 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News expected the rate to be raised, with
ten predicting a half-point move. Two forecast a percentage-
point increase and one estimated a quarter-point move. Eight
projected the benchmark would be kept unchanged.  Pakistan Prime Minister  Syed Yousuf Raza Gilani  estimates
the floods may stoke inflation to as high as 20 percent and curb
economic expansion to 2.5 percent in the year through June.
 Shahid Kardar , who was named central bank governor this month,
said his primary task is to cool Asia’s highest inflation rate.  “They had to increase the rate, there was simply no room
to avoid it,”  Khalid Iqbal Siddiqui , head of research at Invest
& Finance Securities Ltd. in Karachi, said before the
announcement. “There are persistent inflationary pressures,
especially after the floods.”  “The recent catastrophic floods have serious implications
for macroeconomic stability and growth prospects,” the central
bank said in its monetary policy statement today. “Inflation
will increase further accompanied by a drop in economic
growth.”  The floods first struck the western province of Baluchistan
on July 22 before inundating Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Punjab and
Sindh, the country’s most populous provinces.  Food Shortages  The government estimates the floods damaged $3.3 billion of
crops, causing food shortages. Pakistan will harvest 4.4 million
metric tons of rice in the 12 months starting Nov. 1, down 35
percent from the previous year, according to a report by a unit
of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.  Gilani said Sept. 1 the calamity has destroyed 4,000
kilometers of roads and 1,000 bridges, pushing up the cost of
delivering goods and services. He estimated the inflation rate
will climb to between 15 percent and 20 percent.  Consumer prices in Pakistan rose 13.23 percent in August,
the highest among the 17 countries in the Asia Pacific tracked
by Bloomberg.  The central bank in July raised its benchmark for the first
time since November 2008, citing “risks to the inflation
outlook” after the government increased power tariffs. Since
then the country has been hit by the nation’s worst floods in
its 63-year history.  Gilani estimates the disaster may shave 2 percentage points
off economic growth this year. Toyota Motor Corp. and Unilever
affiliates in Pakistan said last month the floods may sap growth
and force production cuts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Farhan Sharif  in Karachi, Pakistan at 
 Fsharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net 
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  