-- Israel Sincerity on Peace Weakened by Minister's Remarks, Palestinian Says
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2010-09-29T14:10:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/palestinian-negotiator-says-lieberman-undermines-israeli-credibility.html
Palestinian negotiator  Nabil Shaath 
said Israel’s credibility in peace talks was undermined by its
foreign minister’s UN speech, as the U.S. accelerated efforts to
resolve an impasse over Israeli construction in the West Bank.  “He provided a very, very clear reason for all our
skepticism,” Shaath said today in a phone interview, referring
to Foreign Minister  Avigdor Lieberman ’s comments yesterday at
the United Nations.  Lieberman, who heads the second-largest party in Prime
Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s coalition, called for an
“intermediate” accord with the Palestinians because it will
take “a few decades” to establish the trust needed for a so-
called final-status agreement. Final-status issues include a
Palestinian state’s borders, security guarantees for Israel, the
right of return for Palestinian refugees and Jerusalem’s status.  Netanyahu, who distanced himself from the speech yesterday,
stressed in a meeting today with U.S. envoy  George Mitchell  that
he is committed to reaching an accord with the Palestinians,
according to a statement from the prime minister’s office.
Netanyahu has set the goal of putting together the framework of
an agreement with the Palestinians within a year.  This round of talks with Mitchell is aimed at resolving a
dispute over Israel’s Sept. 27 resumption of settlement-building
in the West Bank after a partial 10-month hiatus. Palestinian
Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  has said he can’t continue
peace talks amid continued Israeli West Bank construction.  U.S. Proposal  The Obama administration has asked Israel’s government to
consider extending a freeze on settlement building in exchange
for security assurances, in an effort to keep the talks afloat.
The U.S. is proposing a 60-day extension of the suspension of
Israeli construction in the West Bank, according to a person
briefed by American officials on the matter.  Mitchell said today that the U.S. is “more determined than
ever” to achieve Middle East peace, according to an e-mailed
statement from the American Embassy in Tel Aviv.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  called Abbas
yesterday to update him on the efforts to keep talks moving
forward, State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said in a
message posted on Twitter.  On Oct. 4, the  Arab League  will meet in Cairo with the
Palestine Liberation Organization and Palestinian Authority
Abbas’s political party, Fatah, to discuss the impasse over the
resumption of settlement-building.  Proposes Exchange  Lieberman’s comments, in which he also advocated an
exchange of territory between the sides based on population
concentrations, “reflects a segment of the Israeli society
which wants to get rid of all Christian and Muslim Israeli
Palestinians. This is why we are afraid of the settlement
policy,” Shaath said.  Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  criticized Lieberman for
voicing positions that are contradictory to those of the
government in an international arena such as the UN. “It isn’t
done,” Barak said today on Israel Army Radio.  Minister of Minority Affairs  Avishay Braverman , from
Barak’s Labor party, called on Netanyahu to fire Lieberman,
telling journalists by text message that the UN speech was
intended to “sabotage the peace process.”  ‘Coalition Politics’  Netanyahu isn’t likely to push Lieberman out, said  Jonathan Spyer , a political scientist at Israel’s Interdisciplinary
Center Herzliya.  “While Lieberman’s remarks are harmful to Netanyahu from a
public diplomacy point of view, the prime minister is not
desperately keen to broaden his coalition at the moment,” Spyer
said. “This incident shows the strange and unusual nature of
Israeli coalition politics, where a foreign minister thinks he
can express a different foreign policy than the government’s
without resigning.”  Lieberman defended his remarks in an interview today on
Army Radio, saying his position is legitimate and that he saw
“no damage done, politically or coalition-wise.”  The State Department spokesman noted the differences of
opinion in the Israeli government yesterday, calling it a
“manifestation” of the “difficult politics” Netanyahu had
already described to Obama administration officials.  Gerald Steinberg , a political scientist at Israel’s Bar
Ilan University outside Tel Aviv, said, “I would look at this
as a ‘good cop, bad cop’ strategy that was not necessarily
planned in advance, but which the Palestinians and Arab
officials have used for decades.”  “The Americans, more than others, understand the
complexities of Israeli politics,” Steinberg said by phone.
“The alternative of Netanyahu firing Lieberman would be a
coalition crisis, or perhaps new elections, and either way we
would have months of inaction in negotiations.”  Hamas Attacks  Abbas’s Fatah has continued to advocate talks, while the
militant Islamic group Hamas, considered a terrorist
organization by the U.S., European Union and Israel, carried out
attacks on southern Israel. In the past, Hamas has stepped up
attacks during key moments of Middle East peacemaking.  Israeli building crews began work on Sept. 27 at
settlements including Ariel, Oranit, Tekoa and Adam, according
to  Naftali Bennett , director-general of the Yesha Council, which
represents more than 300,000 settlers in the West Bank.  Lieberman, who lives in a West Bank settlement, has said he
has enough political clout to prevent Netanyahu from extending
the 10-month partial freeze on construction that ended Sept. 26.  Environment Minister  Gilad Erdan , a member of Netanyahu’s
Likud party, has said the prime minister lacks the necessary
majority in Cabinet to pass a freeze extension.  Netanyahu’s government collapsed during his first term as
prime minister in 1998 after he made concessions in negotiations
with the Palestinians and his coalition allies who supported
settlements left the administration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gwen Ackerman  in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 