-- Paris on Alert After Bomb Threats Empty Eiffel Tower, Stations
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-09-29T11:09:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/paris-stays-on-red-alert-for-terrorism-as-bomb-threats-empty-eiffel-tower.html
France is on “red alert” for a
terrorist attack, deploying thousands of police and soldiers to
“sensitive” locations after at least four bomb threats
at the Eiffel Tower and railway stations in the past two weeks.  The Eiffel Tower was evacuated last night, for the second
time this month, on a bomb threat that turned out to be false.
The St-Lazare railway and metro station was cleared on Sept. 27,
following a Sept. 14 evacuation of St-Michel station on the
city’s Left Bank. France has deployed 3,400 police and 800 
soldiers to “sensitive” locations, Prime Minister  Francois Fillon  said in a  statement  yesterday.  The threat to France of terrorism “has never been higher,”
 Bernard Squarcini , the head of the DCRI domestic intelligence
agency, told the Journal de Dimanche this month.  Officials of President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s government have
recently signaled an elevated risk of attacks. French Interior
Minister  Brice Hortefeux  said this month that “in the last few
days, several events remind us that we find ourselves in a
period that demands greater vigilance, particularly against the
risk of terrorist attacks.”  Sky News reported yesterday that intelligence agencies
intercepted a terror plot targeting London and other cities in
the U.K, France and Germany. The plot, by militants based in
Pakistan, was at an “advanced but not imminent stage” and had
been tracked by spy agencies “for some time,” Sky said.  French Hostages  Soldiers carrying automatic guns are an increasingly
visible presence at major train stations, from Montparnasse to
Versailles. At the Eiffel Tower yesterday, a call to the tower’s
operator, later traced to a telephone booth near the monument,
warned that a bomb had been placed on the premises, a Paris
police spokeswoman said.  “It’s not a danger in itself,” said Jean-Luc Marret, head
of research at the Foundation for Strategic Research in Paris.
“These sorts of situations bring out the evil and the
crazies.”  Squarcini said the threat emanates from France’s
involvement in international conflicts.  “Our country, because of its history, because of its
engagement in Afghanistan...is an object of very special
interest for certain radical Islamic movements,” he said.  Five French citizens are currently being held hostage in
Niger after a Sept. 16 kidnapping. Al-Qaeda in the Maghreb, a
terror group that operates in the southern Sahara, has claimed
responsibility for the hostage-taking, prompting the French
government to send reconnaissance planes to the region and say
it’s willing to negotiate.  Scare Tactics  The hostages, five workers from  Vinci SA ’s Satom subsidiary
and one  Areva SA  employee and his wife, were kidnapped Sept. 16
in Arlit, near a uranium mine in northern Niger, the companies
have said. Five of the hostages are French, one is Togolese, and
one Madagascan.  Opposition political leaders have suggested the government
is exaggerating the threat of terrorism to bolster support.
Former Socialist presidential candidate  Segolene Royal  last week
said government officials’ warnings included “stagecraft” that
coincides with national protests over Sarkozy’s plan to raise
France’s retirement age.  Paris police have received 31 calls regarding bomb threats
so far this year, compared with 39 in 2009, according to the
Prefecture de Police.  Still, France has faced terrorist attacks in the past.
Eight people died in an attack on the commuter-train station at
St-Michel by Algerian militants in 1995.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Campbell  in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 