-- Pentagon Loses Control of Bombs to China Metal Monopoly
-- B y   P e t e r   R o b i s o n   a n d   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2010-09-29T22:49:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/pentagon-losing-control-of-afghanistan-bombs-to-china-s-neodymium-monopoly.html
A senior manager at a company that
churns out metals routinely used in U.S. smart bombs pauses in
mid-sentence when his phone rings: a Wall Street stockbroker
looking for information. He makes a note to have an assistant
call back -- someone who is fluent in English, not just Chinese.  “It’s a seller’s market now,” says  Bai Baosheng , 43,
puffing a cigarette in his office in Baotou, China, where his
company sells bags of powder containing a metallic element known
as neodymium, vital in tiny magnets that direct the fins of
bombs dropped by U.S. Air Force jets in Afghanistan.  A generation after Chinese leader  Deng Xiaoping  made
mastering neodymium and 16 other elements known as rare earths a
priority, China dominates the market, with far-reaching effects
ranging from global trade friction to U.S. job losses and
threats to national security.  The U.S. handed its main economic rival power to dictate
access to these building blocks of modern weapons by ceding
control of prices and supply, according to dozens of interviews
with industry executives, congressional leaders and policy
experts. China in July reduced rare-earth export quotas for the
rest of the year by 72 percent, sending prices up more than
sixfold for some elements.  Military officials are only now conducting an inventory of
where and how U.S. suppliers use the obscure but essential
substances -- including those that silence the whoosh of Boeing
Co.  helicopter  blades, direct Raytheon Co.  missiles  and target
guns in  General Dynamics Corp.  tanks.  Warning Signs  “The Pentagon has been incredibly negligent,” said Peter
Leitner, who was a senior strategic trade adviser at the Defense
Department from 1986 to 2007. “There are plenty of early
warning signs that China will use its leverage over these
materials as a weapon.”  China may already be flexing its muscles amid a diplomatic
spat with its East Asian neighbor Japan. China last week imposed
a “de facto” ban on exports to Japan of the metals used in
liquid crystal displays and laptop computers, Japanese Economy
Minister  Banri Kaieda  said Sept. 28. That followed Japan’s
detention of a Chinese fishing boat captain whose ship collided
with two Japanese Coast Guard vessels. Japan later released the
man.  No such ban exists, China’s Ministry of Commerce spokesman
 Chen Rongkai  said.  New Factor  “What it does, clearly, is bring a new factor into the
consideration of supply of critical materials,” said  Dudley Kingsnorth , director of Industrial Minerals Co. of Australia, a
forecaster in Perth.  The U.S. Congress’s investigative arm, the Government
Accountability Office, in April warned of “ vulnerabilities ”
for the military because of the lack of domestic rare-earth
supplies. The House of Representatives Armed Services Committee
will hold a hearing in October, the same month a Pentagon report
on how to secure future supplies of the metals is due.  “The department has long recognized that rare-earth
elements are important raw material inputs for many defense
systems and that many companies in our base have expressed
concern regarding the future availability of the refined
products of these elements,”  Brett Lambert , director of the
Pentagon’s Office of Industrial Policy, said.  While two rare-earth projects are scheduled to ramp up
production by the end of 2012 -- one owned by  Molycorp Inc.  in
California and another by  Lynas Corp.  in Australia -- the GAO
says it may take 15 years to rebuild a U.S. manufacturing supply
chain. China makes virtually all the metals refined from rare
earths, the agency says. The elements are also needed for
hybrid-electric cars and wind turbines, one reason supply may
fall short of demand in 2014 even with the new mines, according
to Kingsnorth of Imcoa.  Doggy Day Care  Just how far U.S. manufacturing has waned is apparent at a
factory in Valparaiso, Indiana, where dogs skitter across a bare
concrete shop floor, their nails clicking. This brick plant on
Elm Street once made  80 percent  of the rare-earth magnets in
laser-guided U.S. smart bombs, according to U.S. Senator  Evan Bayh , a Democrat from Indiana. In 2003, the plant’s owner
shifted work to China, costing 230 jobs.  Now the plant houses  Coco’s Canine Cabana , a doggy day care
the current tenants started to supplement sagging income from
their machine shop. On most days dogs outnumber the 15
metalworkers, said Kathy DeFries, co-owner of  Excel Machine
Technologies Inc.   “When things got slow for manufacturing, we had this big
empty shop floor,” said DeFries, nuzzling a floppy-eared puppy.
“It’s a great stress reliever.”  Expensive to Mine  The rare earths are chemically similar elements, with names
such as yttrium and dysprosium. China has the largest share of
worldwide reserves, about 36 percent, and the U.S. is second,
with 13 percent, the U.S. Geological Survey  says . While the
elements aren’t rare, they’re less frequently found in
profitable concentrations, expensive for Western producers to
extract and often laced with radioactive elements.  China produced 120,000 tons, or 97 percent, of the world’s
124,000-ton supply last year, according to the GAO. Half of that
came from Baotou, said Kingsnorth. The raw elements have many
applications. Neodymium is used by Chinese companies including
magnet makers, who sell to U.S. suppliers of defense
contractors.  Export Quotas  Export quotas and taxes for overseas buyers that the GAO
says can reach 25 percent are pushing up prices of elements even
in relatively large supply. For example, the cost of a kilogram
of samarium powder, needed for the navigation system of General
Dynamics’ M1A2 Abrams tank, jumped to $34 in early September,
from $4.50 in June, according to U.K. researcher Metal Pages
Ltd.  The U.S. and the European Union consider Chinese
restrictions on a range of raw goods part of a strategy to draw
in higher-paying manufacturing jobs by making them cheaper to
buy inside China. The export taxes violate World Trade
Organization rules because China  pledged  to limit them to 84
product categories when it joined the trade group in 2001, said
 Terence Stewart , managing partner of Washington law firm Stewart
& Stewart. In 2010, China had taxes on 329, he said.  The U.S. and the EU filed a WTO  complaint  over raw
materials including bauxite and coke last year. China’s commerce
minister,  Chen Deming , said Aug. 28 that the policies comply
with WTO rules.  Some manufacturers in China are lobbying the ministry to
back off the latest quotas because a dispute will disrupt the
market, said  Constantine Karayannopoulos , chief executive
officer of Toronto-based Neo Material Technologies Inc., which
has rare-earth production facilities in China.  Risk of Trade War  “It was very sudden and didn’t give the industry any time
to adjust,” he said. “This quota action could risk a trade
war.”  For Western companies, China’s policies are creating the
real “unobtanium,” the fictional mineral fought over in  James Cameron ’s 2009 film “Avatar.”  It’s taking as long as 10 weeks to get neodymium magnets,
double the previous wait time, said Joe Schrantz, group supply
chain manager at Moog Inc. in East Aurora, New York. He said the
company buys hundreds of thousands of magnets a year to make
motors for cars, trucks and weapons including Raytheon’s AMRAAM
-- or Advanced Medium-Range Air-to-Air Missile -- and Boeing’s
Joint Direct Attack Munition, a tail fin kit for making
precision-guided “smart” bombs out of ordinary weapons.  Rising Prices  Rising neodymium prices are forcing up the price of
magnets, which typically cost between $2 and $30 apiece. That’s
having a “significant” effect on profit, and suppliers say
costs will keep going up, Schrantz said. The company is
considering buying blocks of raw material and storing it.  “If everybody does that, then it’s going to get really
crazy,” he said.  Neodymium, a silvery metal, is essential in a magnetic
alloy  developed  separately by engineers at General Motors Co. in
Detroit and Sumitomo Special Metals Co. in Japan in the 1980s.
The magnets are now in millions of stereo speakers, computer
disk drives and motors.  In missiles, they  replace  a hydraulic system of pumps and
fluids that was costlier and heavier. Motors in weapons like the
JDAM might be three times as big without advanced magnets, said
Todd Brewster, senior design engineer at Kollmorgen, a unit of
Washington-based Danaher Corp. The JDAM has been used
extensively in Iraq and Afghanistan.  Hybrid-Electric Motors  A Chinese supplier makes neodymium magnets for hybrid-
electric motors the Navy is developing to cut fuel use of
Arleigh Burke-class  destroyers , according to the GAO. The agency
also says Lockheed Martin Corp.’s  SPY-1 radar  on Aegis
destroyers contains samarium-cobalt magnets that will need to be
replaced over 35 years. China is virtually the only supplier of
yttrium needed for laser gun sights in the General Dynamics
Abrams tank, the U.S. Geological Survey says.  “It’s amazing how this issue seems to have caught the
country off guard,” said U.S. Representative  Mike Coffman , a
Colorado Republican who was a U.S. Marine Corps infantry
officer. He noted that China’s capabilities have expanded
significantly since 2001, when the U.S. Army canceled plans to
buy Chinese-made berets under pressure from Congress. “How
ironic is that we were concerned about berets?”  Jon Kasle , a spokesman for Raytheon of Waltham,
Massachusetts, said his company hasn’t experienced supply
shortages. Spokesmen for Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed
Martin; General Dynamics, of Falls Church, Virginia; and
Chicago-based Boeing declined to comment. “There is a
particular need to focus on rare-earth minerals,” said  Alexis Allen , spokeswoman for the Aerospace Industries Association, an
Arlington, Virginia-based lobby group for defense contractors.
“The Department of Defense should consider many alternatives to
reliable access.”  Stockpile  One option is to stockpile the metals with allies. Since
1994 the Pentagon has sold off excess raw materials for $7
billion.  Another is subsidies of U.S. manufacturing. The U.S. House
of Representatives approved yesterday a proposal by
Representative  Kathy Dahlkemper , a Pennsylvania Democrat, that
would set up a research and development program at the
Department of Energy to help U.S. rare-earth manufacturers such
as Molycorp with measures including loan guarantees. To become
law the bill, which cleared the House on a 325-98 vote, must
have a matching Senate version and be signed by the president.
Currently there is no such measure.  While Molycorp plans to mine almost 20,000 tons of rare
earths annually by late 2012, it doesn’t yet have the capacity
to refine the raw elements into metals.  ‘No Substitute’  Complicating matters is that even the Pentagon has been
unsure of its own needs. Stephen Luckowski, chief of materials
manufacturing and prototype technology at the U.S. Army’s
 Picatinny Arsenal  in New Jersey, told participants at a February
conference in Cleveland that it took him a month to learn that
rare-earth metals are in the nose of the Excalibur missile, and
he still wasn’t certain of the exact supply route. Luckowski, a
metallurgist, was sure the Army needed the rare earths. “That
may be a case where you have no substitute,” he said.  China’s dominance in the materials comes as it scours the
planet for resources to feed its economy, which is expanding
more than 10 percent this year while the U.S. struggles with an
almost 10 percent  unemployment rate . The country has been
snapping up oilfields, buying copper mines and investing in wind
power. China is also expanding its military, developing an
aircraft carrier, nuclear-powered submarines and ballistic
missiles, the Pentagon  said  in an August report.  Deng’s Quotation  In the lobby of Bai’s company, a unit of state-owned Baotou
Iron & Steel Group Co., a now-famous 1992 quotation by Deng is
emblazoned in pink marble. It reads: “The Middle East has oil,
and China has rare earths.” A May interview with Bai is
regularly interrupted by calls from stockbrokers, analysts and
fund managers looking to learn more about the company.  “Because export quotas are limited, we basically can
choose our clients; we are no longer compelled to sell to just
about anybody who comes knocking,” said Bai, who handles
investor relations for Inner Mongolia Baotou Steel Rare-Earth
Hi-Tech Co. The  shares  have more than doubled in the past year,
reaching 72.72 yuan on Sept. 29, giving the company a market
value of $8.8 billion.  The company is especially proud of the samarium-cobalt
magnets used in the Shenzhou 7 space capsule that lifted Chinese
astronauts into space in 2008. They were developed at the nearby
Baotou Research Institute of Rare Earths.  Environmental Costs  The export restrictions compensate for the heavy
environmental toll, said Zhang Anwen, vice secretary of the
Chinese Society of Rare Earths, a group of researchers in
Beijing. “It’s unfair for the U.S. to be pointing fingers at
China now,” he said. “To undo the damage done to the earth, we
need to return the vegetation, increase water flow and treat the
ground. It’s an extremely costly repair.”  Deng set China on its path with a 1986 initiative whose
goals included acquisition of technology in “exotic materials”
such as rare-earth metals, new energy compounds and high-
capacity engineering plastics, according to a U.S. House of
Representatives committee  report .  That year Zhu Weiheng, an electrical engineer at the
Chinese Academy of Sciences, wrote a report to Chinese officials
suggesting they control exports of rare-earth minerals because
of their high value in manufacturing. Zhu had studied at the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology in Cambridge,
Massachusetts, and in 1965 designed a motor for China’s first
satellite, the East is Red. Later he spent part of Chinese
leader  Mao Zedong ’s Cultural Revolution under arrest as a
suspected spy.  ‘Real Revolution’  By the early 1980s, Zhu was testing samples of neodymium
iron boron, the alloy perfected by engineers at GM and Sumitomo.
Two Chinese research institutes also developed it, said Zhu, 91.
“It was a real revolution,” he said.  In 1990, Zhang Hong, the Chinese academy’s deputy director
of technology, visited Magnequench, a GM unit in Indiana that
used a spinning wheel to quench, or cool, the molten alloy into
flakes to make magnets. Five years later, a group including then
state-owned San Huan New Materials and Hightech Inc. agreed to
buy Magnequench.  The Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, a
cross-agency  board  that reviews foreign takeover deals, allowed
the purchase partly because the partners  agreed  to keep open
facilities in the U.S.  Shipped to China  The company opened a new plant in Tianjin in 1998 and shut
a former GM operation in Anderson, Indiana, four years later.
Magnequench also purchased and later closed the factory in
Valparaiso, where Kathy DeFries now boards dogs for $5 an hour.
That plant’s tools were shipped to three San Huan operations in
China, according to  Shannon Song , a Beijing-based executive at
Magnequench.  “What they were basically doing was replicating the
production lines in China,” said Leitner, the former Pentagon
official.  Indiana’s  Bayh  and  Hillary Clinton , now U.S. secretary of
state, both cited Magnequench as an example of the U.S. losing
jobs and expertise to China. In the 1990s a dozen U.S.-based
suppliers of magnets employed 6,000 people. Today there are
four, employing 500, said Ed Richardson, vice president of
Thomas & Skinner Inc. in Indianapolis, one of the survivors.  Business Decision  The plant closures were a business decision after the
technology bust in 2000 hurt sales, Song said. Most of the
Valparaiso factory’s business came from computer makers; defense
was a minor share, she said. In 2001, labor costs in Anderson
averaged $7.32 per kilogram of neodymium powder on top of $10.07
in direct production overhead, she estimates. In 2003 in
Tianjin, labor costs were 16 cents and overhead $3.20.  “It was a question of letting the ship sink or doing
something to cut the operating cost,” she said.  Toronto-based AMR Technologies Inc. bought Magnequench in
2005 and renamed the merged company Neo. The company’s shares
rose to C$4.92 yesterday from as little as C$1.05 in early 2009.  San Huan, now known as Beijing Zhong Ke San Huan High-Tech
Co., went public in 2000.  Sales  have risen more than fourfold,
from 371 million yuan that year to 1.6 billion yuan in 2009. The
stock has almost tripled in the past year, reaching 17.14 yuan
on Sept. 29.  God and Magnets  “God created the universe from nothing and organized it
with the help of a magnet,” the company declares on its
website, in English and Chinese.  Shares of  Aluminum Corp. of China  Ltd. rose 18 percent over
the past two days in Shanghai trading after its parent announced
a plan to invest at least 10 billion yuan ($1.5 billion) to
build a rare earth production base in Jiangxi province with a
local partner.  A group of U.S. investors led by Denver-based private
equity firm Resource Capital Funds wants to challenge China’s
dominance by restoring the fortunes of Molycorp, the largest
supplier of rare earths for much of the last century. Its mine,
west of Las Vegas in California’s Mojave Desert, shut eight
years ago, under pressure from Chinese competitors and
regulatory  scrutiny  of wastewater spills.  Molycorp, based near Denver, says it needs $511 million to
refurbish and expand. It raised $379 million in its July share
sale, and has applied for a $280 million loan guarantee under a
U.S. Department of Energy program for “innovative
technologies.” The shares have almost doubled, closing at
$26.73 yesterday from $14 in July.  Joshua Trees  Costs of environmental compliance will be steep, Molycorp
warns in a filing that says it spent $3 million last year alone.
Beyond a 300-foot-deep open pit, John Benfield, manager of
quality assurance, points to a valley sheltering Joshua trees
where slurry left after processing ore will be pumped and harden
like concrete.  The trees, protected under California law, will be given
new homes after their precise positions are measured with
compasses. Their bark burns in the desert sun without the right
orientation. Even so, only 20 percent of replanted trees
survive, Benfield said.  The company will keep processing costs to $1.26 per pound,
half the average in China, by recycling more water and using a
single acid to separate elements, said Mark Smith, Molycorp’s
CEO. Molycorp is also negotiating with potential partners to
alloy metals and turn them into neodymium magnets in the U.S.,
creating as many as 900 jobs.  “It was a very, very strategic move that the Chinese
made,” he said. “They created a very, very large number of
jobs for the citizens of China. We ought to be looking at
executing that exact same strategy here in this country.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Peter Robison  in Seattle on 
 robison@bloomberg.net 
 Gopal Ratnam  in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Melissa Pozsgay in Paris at 
 mpozsgay@bloomberg.net 
Gary Putka in Boston on 
 gputka@bloomberg.net . 