-- People's Bank of China Pledges to Further Increase the Flexibility of Yuan
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-09-29T12:05:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/people-s-bank-of-china-pledges-to-further-increase-the-flexibility-of-yuan.html
China’s central bank reaffirmed it
will continue to increase the flexibility of the yuan, a day
before U.S. lawmakers were set to vote on a bill aimed at
pushing the nation to raise the value of its currency.  The Chinese government will “further improve” its
exchange rate mechanism and “increase the flexibility” of the
yuan, the  People’s Bank of China  said today in a statement on
its website after its third-quarter monetary policy meeting. The
flexibility of the yuan has increased this year, it added.  The U.S. House of Representatives will vote Sept. 30 on a
bill that would let American companies petition for punitive
tariffs on Chinese imports to compensate for the effects of what
some lawmakers say is an artificially weak yuan, said
Representative  Chris Van Hollen . Senator  Charles Schumer , lead
Democratic sponsor of the bill, said he’d seek a Senate vote
after the November election.  The yuan has appreciated about 2 percent against the dollar
since the central bank ended an almost two-year peg and pledged
to allow greater flexibility. China passed Japan in the second
quarter to become the world’s second biggest economy and
surpassed Germany last year as the largest exporter.  The Chinese central bank also reiterated that it will seek
moderate credit growth and use monetary tools flexibly,
according to today’s statement. Credit growth so far this year
in China has been “reasonable,” the central bank said.  Credit Controls  China has so far avoided following other Asian economies
including South Korea, Malaysia and India in raising borrowing
costs as the region led the global recovery. The government has
instead relied on guidance to banks to tamp down credit growth,
targeting a 22 percent reduction in  new loans  after a record
credit expansion in 2009.  The central bank has also raised banks’ reserve ratios and
tightened mortgage requirements. Economic growth slowed to 10.3
percent last quarter from 11.9 percent in the first quarter.  New bank loans, totaling about 5.7 trillion yuan ($852
billion) in the first eight months, have been in line with the
central bank’s annual target for 7.5 trillion yuan of lending
this year. M2, the broadest measure of money supply, slowed to
19.2 percent in August from a record pace of 29.6 percent in
November 2009, government data showed.  The central bank said today the task of balancing growth,
the management of inflation expectations and the restructuring
the nation’s growth model remains arduous.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Zheng Lifei  in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net 
 Li Yanping  in Beijing at 
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  