-- Ackman's $45 Million in Jeopardy as Stuyvesant Town Foreclosure Sale Nears
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2010-09-29T04:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/pershing-winthrop-realty-lose-bid-to-stop-stuyvesant-town-foreclosure.html
Pershing Square Capital Management
LP and Winthrop Realty Trust’s $45 million investment in
Manhattan’s Stuyvesant Town-Peter Cooper Village is in jeopardy
after the companies failed to stop a planned foreclosure sale.  A New York state appeals court rejected a request by
Pershing, led by investor  Bill Ackman , and Winthrop for a stay
of the Oct. 4 foreclosure by senior debt holders, according to
one-page order issued yesterday. The companies had sought to
stop the auction after a lower-court judge blocked their own
attempt to take control of the 80-acre apartment complex.  The foreclosure by CWCapital Asset Management LLC, which
represents holders of the $3 billion senior mortgage, would wipe
out Pershing and Winthrop’s $45 million investment in junior
loans, the venture, PSW NYC LLC, has said in court papers. While
they can’t delay the auction, the companies will continue to
pursue their appeal of the lower court ruling, according to a
statement yesterday. They plan to seek damages if they succeed.  “I don’t view this as being an extremely strong hand right
now for Ackman,” said  Mark Edelstein , chair of the real estate
finance and distressed property practice at New York law firm
 Morrison & Foerster LLP . “But I never count Mr. Ackman out.”  Greg Cross , an attorney for CWCapital, said in an interview
that yesterday’s ruling “reaffirmed” the lower-court decision
and that next week’s foreclosure will proceed. The sale comes
almost nine months after Tishman Speyer Properties LP and
BlackRock Inc. defaulted on their loans for Manhattan’s biggest
residential enclave, which is home to about 25,000 tenants.  Few Months  An appeal on the lower court ruling blocking the Pershing
and Winthrop venture from taking control won’t be heard for a
“few months’ time,” Ackman said in an e-mail.  “The senior lenders are going to be exposed to whatever
damages we suffer,”  Edward Weisfelner , an attorney for Pershing
and Winthrop’s joint venture, said in a phone interview. “We
still remain convinced we will prevail.”  A win on appeal would be a “Pyrrhic victory” for the
joint venture, said Edelstein, who isn’t involved in the case.  “By the time he wins, he’s lost, because the property’s
gone,” he said.  Getting damages would also be difficult because the
partnership would have to demonstrate how much it lost by not
being able to foreclose and proceed with a plan to convert the
property to co-operative apartments, he said.  “How can you tell how many people would have bought -- and
at what price?” Edelstein said. “That’s a very high burden to
prove to a court what would have happened.”  Sale Price  The Pershing-Winthrop group could realize some money from
the foreclosure auction if the property sells for more than the
$3.67 billion that senior lenders are owed, Cross said. That
surplus would be “available to distribute to PSW,” he said.  The property, however, probably will trade for no more than
$2 billion, said  Joshua Stein , principal of Joshua Stein PLLC, a
New York-based independent commercial real estate law practice
that isn’t involved in the case.  Stein said a successful appeal of the Sept. 16 lower-court
decision is unlikely, as is the chance that the outcome of the
Oct. 4 foreclosure sale will be set aside.  “As a mezzanine lender, your main event consists of making
sure there’s enough value in the asset to exceed the first
mortgage,” Stein said. “If that doesn’t happen, you’re
ultimately supposed to get stuck. That’s the risk you own.”  Pershing Plan  By buying mezzanine, or junior, debt, Pershing and Winthrop
sought to take control of the property by foreclosing on the
legal entity that owns it. Had they done so, they could have
placed the entity in bankruptcy, a move that could harm senior
lenders’ ability to get paid the full $3.67 billion they are
owed, CWCapital’s lawyers argued in court.  The agreement that governs how different creditors get paid
doesn’t allow for Pershing and Winthrop to execute their plan,
the lower court ruled.  CWCapital can “credit bid” up to $3.67 billion at the
auction, Stein said. Should CW take control of the property at
the Oct. 4 sale, it will appoint Rose Associates Inc. as the new
manager of the apartment complex, Cross said. Rose has been
advising CWCapital since February.  The auction would remove much of the uncertainty
surrounding Stuyvesant Town, Stein said. Creditors and property
developers have been lining up with plans for its future since
January’s default by Tishman and  BlackRock , who bought the
complex in 2006 for $5.4 billion.  “By going forward with the sale, I get rid of Ackman-
Winthrop almost certainly,” Stein said. “I get rid of all
these people who think they have an opportunity to do something
with the asset. Then they don’t have all these people buzzing
around with ideas for how to take control.”  The appeals court case is Bank of America NA v. PSW NYC
LLC, 10-651293, New York State Supreme Court, Appellate
Division, First Department (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  