-- Canadian Stocks Rise as RIM, Oil Rebound; Manulife Declines
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 2010-09-29T15:43:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/peyto-rogers-communications-thompson-creek-metals-canada-equity-preview.html
Canadian stocks  rose for a second
day as energy stocks gained after an unexpected drop in U.S.
gasoline and distillate-fuel inventories and Research In Motion
Ltd. rebounded from yesterday’s 2.6 percent drop.  Canadian Natural Resources Ltd., the country’s second-
biggest energy company by market value, advanced 1.5 percent as
crude oil futures erased a decline. RIM, the BlackBerry maker,
increased 2.4 percent after Hewlett-Packard Co. forecast
earnings above analyst estimates. Manulife Financial Corp.,
North America’s third-largest insurer, decreased 1.1 percent
after Liberty Mutual Holding Co. postponed its initial public
offering.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index  increased 31.03
points, or 0.3 percent, to 12,309.91 as of 11:32 a.m. in Toronto
after gauges of manufacturing in China and Japan and confidence
in the European economy advanced.  “We had a couple of indicators on China, Japan and Europe
-- they were all better,” said  Luc Girard , who helps manage
about C$18 billion ($17.5 billion) as a director of the
portfolio advisory group at Desjardins Securities in Montreal.
Data releases later this week on Canadian economic growth and
U.S. jobless claims and consumer confidence “could propel the
indexes,” he said.  The S&P/TSX rallied 8.7 percent from June 30 through
yesterday, which would be the biggest quarterly gain since the
three months ending September 2009. The market has been  led  by
fertilizer stocks, which soared 62 percent thanks to BHP
Billiton Ltd.’s $40 billion bid for Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan
Inc., and base-metals and coal companies, which jumped 42
percent on higher copper prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Walcoff  in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 