-- Pfizer Arthritis Drug Quenched Pain Too Well, Leading to Damage
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2010-09-29T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/pfizer-arthritis-drug-cut-pain-too-well-leading-to-joint-damage-in-study.html
An experimental arthritis drug from
 Pfizer Inc.  reduced pain more than researchers anticipated,
doctors said. It also allowed previously hobbled patients to
overuse and permanently damage their joints.  Bone destruction developed in 16 of 6,800 patients taking
the medicine, tanezumab, as part of Pfizer’s development
program, and they all needed a complete joint replacement for
the affected knee, hip or shoulder, according to a report in the
 New England Journal of Medicine . Pain-free patients may have put
excessive pressure on their  fragile joints  because they weren’t
getting natural pain signals to take it easy, said the lead
researcher, Nancy Lane.  “This is more potent than any pain medication I have ever
had in arthritis,” said Lane, director of the  Center for Aging 
at the University of California at Davis School of Medicine in
Sacramento, in a telephone interview. “Because this is a new
chapter in controlling pain, we didn’t realize we needed to
counsel our patients in using their joints that were still
diseased. Now we need to figure out how to use it so the risks
don’t outweigh the benefits.”  New York-based Pfizer halted studies of the drug for
osteoarthritis, chronic back pain and diabetes-related nerve
disorders at the request of U.S. regulators in June and July.
The market potential for tanezumab and similar medicines was
estimated at $11 billion,  Catherine Arnold , a New York-based
managing director at Credit Suisse, wrote in a May 3 note to
investors before the drug problems emerged.  Talking with FDA  Pfizer is discussing tanezumab’s development program with
officials at the  U.S. Food and Drug Administration , said MacKay
Jimeson, a company spokesman. The definitive cause of the
complication hasn’t been determined.  Studies of the drug in patients with cancer pain and
chronic pancreatitis are under way. Publication of the paper
underscores the scientific interest in finding new methods to
treat pain, Jimeson said.  Lane’s group studied 450 patients with moderate to severe
osteoarthritis, a disease of the cartilage that protects the
ends of bones in a joint. The tissue absorbs the impact from
movement and allows the bones to slide along each other with
less friction. For  27 million  Americans with osteoarthritis, the
cartilage wears away, causing pain and swelling and limiting
motion.  Patients in the study received an injection of tanezumab or
placebo on the first day and during the eighth week of
treatment. Almost half of the patients were already candidates
for joint replacement because of damage. Reduction in knee pain
ranged from 45 percent to 62 percent in those given the Pfizer
drug, depending on the dose, compared with 22 percent for those
given placebo.  Side Effects  The most common side effects were headaches, colds and
numbness or tingling of the skin.  The findings, from the second of three stages needed for
regulatory approval, prompted Pfizer to move the medicine into
final studies. It was in those 13 trials involving 9,100
patients that the rapid progression of arthritis occurred in 16
people, triggering regulators to put the research on hold.  “Pain has an important role in the avoidance of self-harm,
but chronic inflammatory pain has generally been considered to
be wholly undesirable,” said John Wood, professor of
neurobiology at University College London, in an editorial that
accompanied the research. “The study by Lane et al. suggests
that a complete quenching of pain in patients with
osteoarthritis may not necessarily be a good thing.”  Different Joint  For more than half of the 16 patients, worsening arthritis
and the need for surgery occurred in a joint other than the one
originally targeted in the study, the researchers said. One
patient developed a problem in the shoulder, an uncommon
location for damage from osteoarthritis.  Tanezumab, a nerve growth factor inhibitor, was considered
one of Pfizer’s most promising compounds in development.  Similar treatments are in early stages of development at
 Johnson & Johnson  of New Brunswick, New Jersey;  Regeneron
Pharmaceuticals Inc.  of Tarrytown, New York;  Sanofi-Aventis SA 
of Paris;  Abbott Laboratories  of Abbott Park, Illinois; and
 AstraZeneca Plc  of London, Lane said.  “I’ve never worked with anything that’s been this good for
pain,” Lane said. “I’m not saying it’s perfect, but it is a
game changer, provided we learn how to use it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michelle Fay Cortez  in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  