-- Philippine Stocks to Extend Asia's Best Gains on Profits, First Metro Says
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2010-09-29T03:19:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/philippine-stocks-to-extend-asia-s-best-gains-on-profits-first-metro-says.html
Philippine stocks will extend
Asia’s best performance this quarter, driving gains for food-
maker  Universal Robina Corp.  and homebuilder  Vista Land &
Lifescapes Inc. , the nation’s second-best performing fund said.  “In this kind of market nine out of 10 stocks will rise,
so what you have to look for are the outperformers,” said
 Eduardo Banaag , who helps manage $573 million at First Metro
Investments Corp. His  Save & Learn Equity Fund  has returned 221
percent over five years, second-most among 22 Philippine equity
funds domiciled in the country, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Universal Robina, the nation’s largest maker of snackfoods,
and Vista Land, the country’s fourth-biggest homebuilder by
sales, will “outperform” the market and their peers as they
are “relatively cheap,” Banaag said. Investors should also buy
shares of  DMCI Holdings Inc. , the nation’s biggest construction
company, and  Aboitiz Power Corp. , he said.  The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index  has climbed 22 percent
this quarter, the best performer among the 15 biggest Asia
Pacific markets, as the fastest economic growth in three years
and higher-than-estimated earnings boosted stock trading. The
measure rose to a record 4,123.95 yesterday, extending this
year’s gain to 35 percent.  The  measure  will rise a further 10 percent this year from
yesterday’s close, as earnings grow by 25 percent, driving
valuations closer to 16 times estimated earnings, Banaag said.
Companies in the benchmark index were yesterday valued at 15.4
times estimated earnings, the highest since January 2008.  “Earnings growth is not on a slippery slope: it has
traction thanks to resilient remittances from Filipinos overseas
plus a domestic-driven economy,” Banaag said. “Corporate
profits will end 2010 at record levels.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian Sayson  in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  