-- Plosser Opposes More Fed Bond Buying, Sees Small Deflation Risk
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2010-09-29T16:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/plosser-opposes-more-fed-bond-purchases-sees-little-risk-of-deflation.html
Federal Reserve Bank of
Philadelphia President  Charles Plosser  said he opposes more
monetary expansion by the U.S. central bank in part because he
sees “little risk” of deflation.  “Because I see little gain at this point, and some costs,
I would prefer not to engage in further asset purchases at this
time,” Plosser said in remarks prepared for a speech to the
Greater Vineland, New Jersey, Chamber of Commerce today. “Asset
purchases in our current economic environment can do little if
anything to speed up the return to full employment.”  U.S. central bankers are debating whether more monetary
stimulus would help speed up a recovery that hasn’t pushed the
jobless rate lower. Consumer confidence slumped this month, and
a rebound in home prices cooled. The Federal Open Market
Committee said in its Sept. 21 statement that inflation measures
are “somewhat below” levels consistent with the Fed’s mandate
to achieve stable prices.  The unemployment rate has been stuck above 9 percent since
the recession ended in June 2009 -- almost twice the 5 percent
rate when the slump began 18 months earlier. The personal
consumption expenditures price index, minus food and energy,
rose 1.4 percent for the 12 months ending July. That’s below Fed
officials’ long-run preference range of 1.7 percent to 2
percent.  “We are in the midst of an economic recovery -- a modest
one, but a recovery nonetheless,” said Plosser, 62, a former
professor and business-school dean at the University of
Rochester in New York, who joined the Philadelphia Fed as its
chief in 2006. “It is difficult, in my view, to see how
additional asset purchases by the Fed, even if they move
interest rates on long-term bonds down by 10 or 20 basis points,
will have much impact on the near-term outlook for employment.”  Confuse People  Plosser said the central bank might confuse people by
leading them to believe that monetary policy could fine-tune the
unemployment rate. He added that he sees no “significant risk
of sustained deflation,” and said prices should increase to a 2
percent annual rate next year.  The Fed statement this month said officials were “prepared
to provide additional accommodation if needed to support the
economic recovery and to return inflation, over time, to levels
consistent with its mandate.”  The Fed kept its benchmark interest rate in a range of zero
to 0.25 percent, where it has been since December 2008, and said
borrowing costs were likely to remain low for “an extended
period.”  The central bank decided at its previous meeting in August
to set a $2.05 trillion floor on asset holdings, buying
Treasuries to replace mortgage debt that borrowers were
repaying. Bernanke said in an Aug. 27 speech that the move was
aimed at keeping market interest rates low by avoiding shrinkage
in the Fed’s balance sheet.  Economists including  Michael Feroli  at JPMorgan Chase & Co.
in New York predict that the Fed will expand its balance sheet
by the end of the year to support the recovery.  Plosser becomes a voting member of the FOMC next year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Craig Torres  in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.ne  