-- Polish Central Bank May Leave Benchmark Rate Unchanged as Inflation Tamed
-- B y   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 2010-09-29T05:20:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/polish-central-bank-may-leave-benchmark-rate-unchanged-as-inflation-tamed.html
Poland’s central bank may keep the
benchmark interest rate unchanged today after consumer price
growth remained at a three-year low in August and as policy
makers await the bank’s updated forecasts next month.  The Warsaw-based Narodowy Bank Polski will hold the  seven-
day reference rate  at a record-low 3.5 percent for a 15th month,
according to all 23 economists  surveyed by Bloomberg . The
decision will be announced about noon and the bank will hold a 4
p.m. press conference to comment on the decision.  The latest economic reports “should give the majority of
policy makers the comfort of monitoring the economic environment
for another month, though a motion for a rate increase at the
September meeting is likely,” said  Lukasz Tarnawa , chief
economist at PKO BP in Warsaw.  Some policy makers have indicated borrowing costs may rise
as early as this year as price growth picks up and companies
boost hiring, prompting increased consumer spending. The central
bank will next month update its outlook for economic output and
inflation and may forecast price growth will exceed the 2.5-
percent target earlier than it expected in June.  In the June outlook, the bank forecast inflation to
overshoot its goal in the third quarter of 2011 because of low
interest rates and rising production costs.  The  economy  expanded a faster-than-expected 3.5 percent in
the second quarter. The central bank expects full-year  gross
domestic product  to rise 3.2 percent. The government late
yesterday approved a 2011 budget that includes a deficit of 40.2
billion zloty ($13.7 billion), according to a spokeswoman.  Data Prompt  Retail sales  rose an annual 6.6 percent last month,
compared with economists’ forecasts in a Bloomberg survey for a
5.3 percent increase. Germany’s Ifo  business confidence index 
rose to 106.8 in September from 106.7, driven by domestic
demand. Germany is Poland’s main trading partner.  “Strong retail sales and the German Ifo index may prompt
some members of the Monetary Policy Council to push for a rate
increase this month,” economists at ING Bank Slaski wrote in an
e-mailed comment. “Fast price growth expected by the Finance
Ministry in September will again draw attention to increasing
inflationary expectations and support our forecast of a pre-
emptive rate hike in October.”  Planned value-added tax increases next year may also
generate price pressure, said  Marcin Mrowiec , chief economist at
Bank Pekao in Warsaw.  While the main rate is expected to remain unchanged today,
some economists forecast the bank may lift up the requirement on
banks’ mandatory reserves, which was lowered in June last year
to 3 percent to encourage banks to lend.  “Monetary policy can be restricted by both raising the
main rates as well as the mandatory reserve rate,” said
Mrowiec. “The central bank’s decision to stop using operations
boosting liquidity in the banking sector may be a signal that
more dovish policy makers, who are unwilling to lift the
benchmark rate, would be inclined to back the motion for a
mandatory reserve rate increase.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Monika Rozlal  in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for the story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  