-- Polish Central Bank Keeps Benchmark Interest Rate Unchanged for 15th Month
-- B y   M o n i k a   R o z l a l   a n d   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2010-09-29T15:59:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/polish-central-bank-keeps-benchmark-interest-rate-unchanged-for-15th-month.html
Poland’s central bank kept its main
interest rate at a record low for a 15th month as consumer-price
growth remained at the lowest level in three years and policy
makers await updated economic forecasts.  The Narodowy Bank Polski kept its seven-day  reference rate 
at 3.5 percent today, matching the forecast of all 23 economists
 surveyed by Bloomberg   The latest economic reports “especially the low inflation
reading in August, weren’t enough to swing the balance toward
the hawkish wing of the Monetary Policy Council,” said  Maja Goettig , chief economist at Bank BPH SA in Warsaw, in a research
note after the decision. Goettig forecast the panel will raise
rates by a quarter-point in October.  Some policy makers have indicated they may push to raise
borrowing costs this year as price growth picks up and companies
boost hiring, increasing consumer spending. The  central bank 
will update its outlook for economic production and inflation
next month and may forecast price growth will exceed the 2.5
percent target sooner than it estimated in June.  “A moderate pace of economic growth with currently limited
wage and inflationary pressure as well as the risk of a global
economic slowdown in coming quarters justify leaving  interest
rates unchanged,” said the rate panel in a statement following
its decision. “Likely food and energy price growth may
gradually lift up the  inflation rate , while the planned value-
added tax increase may slightly increase prices in 2011.”  June Outlook  In the June outlook, the bank forecast inflation would
overshoot the target in the third quarter of 2011 because of low
interest rates and rising production costs.  The Council added it will be monitoring inflation
expectations. “The majority of inflationary expectation
measures currently exceed the consumer price index,” it said.  Forward-rate agreements used to speculate on rate moves
three months from now slumped 7 basis points to 4.1250 percent,
the biggest drop since April 16, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s 39 basis points above today’s three-month
Warsaw interbank offered rate of 3.74 percent, indicating the
decline in market expectations for a rate rise from half a
percentage point on Sept. 27.  The zloty weakened to 3.9780 per euro as of 5:21 p.m. in
Warsaw, from 3.9669 before the decision was announced. The
currency was down 0.3 percent for the day.  Faster Growth  Poland’s  economy  grew a faster-than-expected 3.5 percent in
the second quarter. The central bank expects  gross domestic
product  to expand 3.2 percent for the full year. The government
late yesterday approved a 2011 budget that includes a deficit of
40.2 billion zloty ($13.7 billion).  Stronger growth has prompted economists to revise up their
interest-rate forecasts for this year. The central bank’s
benchmark rate will rise a quarter-point to 3.75 percent in the
fourth quarter, according to the median forecast in a Sept. 24
survey of 15 economists by Bloomberg. That’s up from June’s
median forecast that rates won’t change until 2011.  Retail sales  rose an annual 6.6 percent last month,
compared with economists’ forecasts for a 5.3 percent increase.
Germany’s Ifo  business confidence index  rose to 106.8 in
September from 106.7, driven by domestic demand. Germany is
Poland’s main trading partner.  October Outlook  “Strong retail sales and the German Ifo index may prompt
some members of the Monetary Policy Council to push for a rate
increase this month,” economists at ING Bank Slaski wrote in an
e-mailed comment. “Fast price growth expected by the Finance
Ministry in September will again draw attention to increasing
inflationary expectations and support our forecast of a pre-
emptive rate hike in October.”  The Monetary Policy Council approved the 2011 policy
guidelines, maintaining its 2.5-percent inflation target with a
range of one percentage point up or below.  Separately, Governor  Marek Belka  said at the press
conference that the central bank is not targeting any level or
range for the zloty exchange rate.  “I’m not concerned about the current exchange rate,” he
said, adding that he was expressing his personal view as an
economist.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Monika Rozlal  in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net 
 Piotr Skolimowski  in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  