-- 11 People Charged in U.K. Hacking Scheme Affecting HSBC, RBS and Barclays
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2010-09-30T01:19:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/police-detain-19-people-in-9-5-million-robbery-from-online-bank-accounts.html
Eleven people were charged in the
U.K. after an online banking fraud that affected  HSBC Holdings
Plc ,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and two other banks, the
Metropolitan Police said.  Fifteen men and four women were arrested Sept. 28 in early
morning raids on suspicion of hacking thousands of U.K. bank
accounts and stealing about 6 million pounds ($9.5 million), the
 Metropolitan Police  said yesterday in a statement. Eleven
people, all identified as being from Eastern Europe, face
charges that include conspiracy to defraud, money laundering and
possession of false or improperly obtained identification,
police said in a second statement.  From Oct. 13 to Sept. 28, the defendants “conspired
together and with persons unknown, to defraud HSBC, the Royal
Bank of Scotland, Barclays Bank and Lloyds TSB, and their
customers, by facilitating the transfers of monies from bank
accounts,” police said in the statement.  Those defendants will appear today in custody at
Westminster Magistrates’ Court, police said. Nine other people
arrested in the investigation have been released on bail,
according to the statement.  The alleged scam involved customers’ computers being
infected with a so-called Trojan software program known as Zeus,
which collected personal log-on details and gave criminals
unauthorized access to the accounts, the police said.  Zeus Trojan  “The Zeus Trojan poses a sizeable threat to the safe use
of the Internet and is being used increasingly by cyber-
criminals worldwide -- not simply those believed to be involved
in this case,” the police said.  James Thorpe , a spokesman for London-based HSBC, said
yesterday that he couldn’t rule out the possibility that the
bank’s customers had been affected, because the virus is
designed to attack computers rather than specific banks.  “We are committed to helping the e-crimes unit continue to
fight fraud,” Thorpe said in a phone interview.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc  spokesman  Mark Elliott  declined to
comment.  Financial Fraud Action UK , an organization that fights
fraud on behalf of banks, said the industry helped bring the
hacking scheme to the attention of police.  “This involved extensive liaison with law enforcement,”
FFA spokesman Mark Bowerman said in a separate statement.
“Anyone who has been the innocent victim of fraud, and had
their account fraudulently accessed as a result of this malware
scam, should be refunded in full by their bank.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Larson  in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 