-- Portugal Credit-Default Swaps Surge to Record on Budget Deficit Concern
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2010-09-29T12:23:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/portugal-credit-risk-rises-to-record-on-budget-deficit-concern.html
The cost of insuring against
default on Portuguese government debt surged to a record on
concern the nation will struggle to reduce its budget deficit.  Credit-default swaps on Portugal rose 12.5 basis points to
459, having earlier risen to 466.5, according to data provider
CMA. The previous all-time high was 461 basis points set May 6.  Portugal’s President  Anibal Cavaco Silva  met with governing
Socialists and two opposition parties about the budget today.
The government should be ready to take new measures to cut the
fourth-largest deficit in the euro region as higher borrowing
costs may undermine recovery, the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development said Sept. 27.  “The news for Portugal today is actually quite good, but
Portugal has got caught up in the wider maelstrom of risk
aversion, so it’s no surprise to see CDS at a record,” said
 Ciaran O’Hagan , a fixed-income strategist at Societe Generale SA
in Paris. “Risk aversion is going to continue unless
governments get their budgets in order.”  While Finance Minister  Fernando Teixeira  dos Santos told
parliament last week more revenue will be needed to meet deficit
goals, Pedro Passos Coelho, leader of the Social Democrats, the
largest opposition party, has said he will only support a 2011
budget that has “very concrete” spending cuts and avoids new
tax increases. The governing Socialists lack a parliamentary
majority.  Financial Debt  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of insuring against
default on financial company bonds fell after the European
Central Bank said it will lend banks 104 billion euros ($141
billion) for three months as 225 billion euros of long-term
loans mature.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of swaps on the senior
debt of 25 banks and insurers fell 2.5 basis points to 145.5,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. The index this week rose to
the highest level since July 7.  Caja de Ahorros del Mediterraneo led a decline in swaps on
Spanish savings banks, dropping 45 basis points to 585, CMA
prices show. Anglo Irish Bank Corp decreased 10 basis points to
930 after surging to a record yesterday, and Portugal’s Banco
Espirito Santo SA fell 4 basis points to 488.  Gauges of corporate bond risk also declined with the Markit
iTraxx Crossover Index of 50 companies with mostly high-yield
credit ratings falling 8 basis points to 512. The Markit iTraxx
Europe Index of 125 companies with investment-grade ratings fell
2.25 basis points to 112.5.  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of credit-
default swaps on 15 governments fell for the first time this
week, dropping 2 basis points to 161 after reaching a three-
month high yesterday.  A basis point on a credit-default swap contract protecting
10 million euros of debt for five years is equivalent to 1,000
euros a year. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a company fail to adhere to its debt agreements. An
increase signals deterioration in perceptions of credit quality.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Abigail Moses  in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  