-- Port Authority of New York and New Jersey Sued by U.S. for Sex, Age Bias
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2010-09-29T22:22:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/port-authority-of-new-york-and-new-jersey-sued-by-u-s-for-sex-age-bias.html
The Port Authority of New York and
New Jersey was sued by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission for allegedly discriminating against lawyers on the
basis of sex and age.  The agency claims that the Port Authority pays female
attorneys in non-supervisory jobs less than males and that it
fired two women lawyers because of their age.  The suit alleges that the authority, which manages
airports, bridges, tunnels, public transportation and ports,
paid the female attorneys thousands of dollars less per year
than men with similar experience.  The EEOC filed the suit on behalf of four women and a class
of female attorneys who, the agency claims, suffered pay
discrimination since 2006. Two of the women were also fired in
2007 on the basis of age and replaced by younger lawyers,
according to the lawsuit.  The EEOC claims that senior Port Authority executives and
supervisors made comments that displayed age bias, including
“We’re bringing in younger attorneys” and “We’re going to
remake this agency with young, fresh faces.”  A Port Authority memorandum issued on April 2, 2007,
referred to the difficult time it was having with its “ability
to seek out, attract and retain young attorneys,” according to
the EEOC complaint.  The suit seeks a court order ending the discriminatory
practices and making compensatory payment on behalf of the
affected women.  Port Authority spokeswoman Jennifer Friedberg had no
immediate comment on the suit.  The case is Equal Employment Opportunity Commission v. Port
Authority of New York and New Jersey, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 