-- Portugal's Growth May Slow to 0.2% in 2011 on Deficit Steps, Ministry Says
-- B y   A n a b e l a   R e i s   a n d   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2010-10-16T17:56:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/portugal-plans-to-cut-wages-raise-sales-tax-to-reduce-budget-deficit.html
Portugal’s economy will barely
expand next year as slowing growth in Europe and austerity
measures to cut the euro-region’s fourth-biggest budget deficit
choke the country’s economic recovery.  The Finance Ministry said today the 2011 spending plan
forecasts an expansion of 0.2 percent, down from the 0.5 percent
it forecast in May. Growth this year will reach 1.3 percent,
almost twice the rate projected in May.  “The growth we expect for this year has a lot to do with
the exporting sector, and we are counting on that to continue,”
Finance Minister  Fernando Teixeira dos Santos  said at a press
conference in Lisbon today. “It’s evident that the salary cuts
in public administration and the increase in the value-added tax
rate will have a negative impact.”  Teixeira dos Santos  presented the spending plan to
parliament late yesterday, including cuts to the public wage
bill and increases in some taxes to trim the budget shortfall.
Dos Santos said the measures are necessary to convince investors
the country can control its deficit after Greece’s near-default
led to a surge in borrowing costs.  “This is the budget that the country needs,” Teixeira dos
Santos said. “It includes measures that allow the reduction of
the deficit, but above all it will contribute to restoring the
confidence of those that lend to Portugal.”  Debt to GDP  The  difference  in yield between Portuguese 10-year bonds
and German bunds, Europe’s benchmark, rose to a record 441 basis
points on Sept. 28 on concern Portugal wasn’t doing enough to
tame the deficit and might need to follow Greece in seeking a
European Union rescue. The next day, the government announced
new austerity measures, with the spread since narrowing to 337
basis points.  The finance minister forecast public debt as a percentage
of gross domestic product will increase to 86.6 percent in 2011
from an estimated figure of 82.1 percent this year. Teixeira dos
Santos said he expects that ratio will “stabilize” in 2012 and
start declining in 2013. He forecasts revenue from
privatizations of 1.87 billion euros in 2011 ($2.6 billion).  The government estimates the state’s net financing needs in
2011 will be 10.7 billion euros, 31 percent lower than in 2010,
according to the budget proposal.  “We are certainly going to see very weak growth as the
fiscal tightening bites,”  Laurence Mutkin , head of European
fixed-income strategy for Morgan Stanley, said yesterday in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse” with Andrea
Catherwood. “It’s a difficult balance for Portugal to strike.”  Wage Bill  The plan includes a 5 percent cut to the wage bill for
public workers earning more than 1,500 euros a month and a
freeze on promotions and new hiring. The government will create
a levy on the financial sector in line with an EU initiative,
and the value-added tax rate will increase to 23 percent from 21
percent. The state plans to close or merge some government
institutes.  Finance Minister Teixeira dos Santos today said the new
budget measures will lead to a reduction in public spending of
3.7 billion euros and an increase in revenue of about 2 billion
euros.  Now that the budget proposal has been officially presented
to parliament, Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  needs to muster
support from the opposition to turn the plan into law. He leads
a minority government and has courted support from the
opposition Social Democrats, who have threatened to oppose the
budget because it contains tax increases.  Support?  The Social Democrats will only announce their position on
the 2011 budget after they have documentation,  Miguel Macedo , a
parliamentary leader for the biggest opposition party, said on
Oct. 14.  Europe’s sovereign debt crisis took hold at the end of 2009
after Greece’s newly elected socialist government said the
budget deficit was twice as big as the previous administration
had disclosed. In April, Greece asked to tap an EU-International
Monetary Fund 110 billion-euro loan facility after being shut
out of debt markets. The EU then passed a broader 750 billion-
euro backstop for the rest of the euro region.  The Portuguese government is trying to cut its budget gap
after posting a deficit of 9.3 percent of  GDP  in 2009, the
highest in the 16-country euro region after Ireland, Greece and
Spain. The government aims to narrow the  shortfall  to 7.3
percent this year, 4.6 percent next year, and intends to meet
the EU limit of 3 percent in 2012.  Forecasts  Jorg Decressin , head of the International Monetary Fund’s
world economic studies division, on Oct. 6 said that the
Portuguese economy may contract 1.4 percent next year if new
deficit-cutting measures are taken into account.  Standard & Poor’s on Oct. 4 said it expects the Portuguese
economy to shrink 1.8 percent next year and stagnate in 2012.
Portugal probably won’t default on its debt even as the economy
fails to grow in the next two years, S&P said.  Portugal’s economic expansion has averaged less than 1
percent annually since 2000.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anabela Reis  at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net 
 Joao Lima  in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 