-- Portugal Yields Hit 13-Year High to Spain as Deficits Diverge: Euro Credit
-- B y   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 2010-09-30T11:47:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/portugal-yields-hit-13-year-high-to-spain-as-deficits-diverge-euro-credit.html
Portugal’s budget stalemate is
driving the nation’s bond yields to the highest levels in at
least 13 years relative to neighboring Spain, which has been
more successful in tackling its budget deficit.  Investors demand 222 basis points  more  in yield to lend to
Portugal for 10 years than to Spain. That’s more than 20 times
the level at the start of this year as Portuguese leaders have
so far failed to agree on a plan to cut the European Union’s
fourth-largest deficit. The gap between Portuguese bonds and
those of Germany, the European benchmark, reached a euro-era
 record  of 441 basis points on Sept. 28.  “If you combine the lagging deficit with the situation
between the opposition and the government, the result is
depicted in the spreads,” said  Ioannis Sokos , a London-based
interest-rate strategist at BNP Paribas SA.  The opposition Social Democrats are demanding that
Socialist Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  avoid additional tax
increases next year, while Socrates’s party says it isn’t
possible to reach deficit-reduction targets without raising
revenue. The central government’s  deficit  increased 4.1 percent
this year as of Aug. 31, compared with decline of almost 50
percent in Spain.  Socrates last night announced additional austerity
measures, including a 5 percent cut in state spending on some
public workers’ salaries in 2011 and an increase in the value-
added tax rate to 23 percent from 21 percent, which the Social
Democrats have said they would oppose. The spending cuts are
equivalent to 2 percent of the country’s gross domestic product,
Finance Minister  Fernando Teixeira  dos Santos said.  Bonds Gain  The announcement helped lower the difference between
Portuguese and German 10 year bonds by 8 basis points today to
411 basis points. The measures indicate that Portugal is “
taking decisive steps” toward “meeting the budgetary targets,”
European Union Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said in
Brussels today.  Portugal aims to lower its overall deficit to 4.6 percent
of gross domestic product next year from a projected 7.3 percent
in 2010. Socrates’s efforts are being stymied by the opposition
Social Democrats, whose support he needs because he lacks a
parliamentary majority.  An agreement between the government and the opposition on
would lead to a further decline in bond yields, said  Phyllis Reed , head of bond research at London-based Kleinwort Benson
Private Bank, who helps manage about $32 billion and holds no
Portugal debt.  ‘Some Relief’  “You’ll get some relief definitely, because it’s a key
concern at the moment,” she said. “If they get a tough budget
through, that will help.”  Portugal had so far avoided the deepest spending cuts and
wage reductions implemented in Spain, Ireland and Greece,
counting on an expanding economy to meet fiscal targets. The
Bank of Portugal expects the economy to grow 0.9 percent this
year. By contrast, Spain will contract 0.4 percent, Ireland will
shrink 0.9 percent and Greece will contract 4 percent, according
to European Commission estimates.  Spain had its top credit rating cut one level by Moody’s
Investors Service today, which cited the nation’s “weak”
economic outlook. The ratings company lowered Spain to Aa1 from
Aaa with a stable outlook, it said in a statement. Spain lost
its top grade at Fitch Ratings in May and at Standard & Poor’s
in January 2009.  Consumer confidence in Portugal rose for a second month in
September, according to data published yesterday by the national
statistics institute. Industrial production jumped 3.9 percent
in August from the previous month, a report today from the
institute showed.  Debt Crisis  Europe’s debt crisis, which started a year ago in Greece,
prompted the EU to craft a $1 trillion aid package, forcing
countries across the region to take unpopular steps such as
imposing higher taxes and wage cuts. The turmoil has resulted in
political wrangling in countries such as Portugal and Belgium.  The yield on 10-year Portuguese bonds rose to the highest
since 1997 two days ago. It declined 13 basis points today to
6.43 percent. In other so-called euro peripheral countries, the
yield on Ireland’s 10-year bond fell 10 basis points to 6.71;
Spain’s yield dropped 7 basis points to 4.15 percent; Italy shed
6 basis points to 3.88 and Greece declined 18 basis points to
10.52 percent.  Default Risk  Costs to insure Portuguese debt against default fell 24
basis points to 416 basis points after reaching a record 472.6
basis points this week, according to CMA prices. Credit-default
swaps linked to Spanish debt rose 2.5 basis points to 230.5,
compared with Greece at 784.5 basis points.  Portugal doesn’t face any bond maturities until next year
and today announced that it planned to sell up to 1 billion euro
of three and 12-month treasury bills on Oct. 6.  The budget standoff has helped make Portuguese debt the
worst performer globally after Ireland in the past month, down
5.6 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  Socrates’s plan to trim the deficit had been upended by
Pedro Passos Coelho, who was elected in March as leader of the
Social Democrats. Passos Coelho, 46, joined Socrates, 53, in May
to enact spending cuts and tax increases to curb the deficit. He
now says that he won’t support the 2011 budget unless it avoids
new taxes and includes “very concrete” spending cuts.  The Social Democrats are asking the government to
reconsider the tax increases announced yesterday, newspaper
Publico reported today, citing party spokesman Antonio Nogueira
Leite.  Passos Coelho is facing pressure over his stance. The
country’s employer groups have lobbied for an agreement and
President  Anibal Cavaco Silva  met this week with political
parties’ leaders to push for a deal.  “From all sides, there are forces corralling the Social
Democratic leader into doing what he thinks he can’t do,” said
Miguel Morgado, a lecturer on politics at Catholic University in
Lisbon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anabela Reis  in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  