-- Exchanges Should Be Allowed to Set U.S. Stock-Quotation Fees, Nasdaq Says
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2010-09-29T18:26:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/price-of-stock-quotes-should-be-set-by-market-nasdaq-says.html
U.S. stock markets must prove that
competition limits the fees they charge brokers and other firms
for real-time quotation data, after a court rejected the
Securities and Exchange Commission’s approval of charges
proposed in 2006, a lawyer for  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.  said.  Competition among U.S. equity exchanges is enough to keep
any one firm from setting prices too high for their feeds, which
are sold to individual and professional investors and data
providers, said  Jeffrey Davis , Nasdaq’s deputy general counsel.
A group of companies including Google Inc. and Yahoo! Inc. sued
to block the SEC’s reliance on “market-based” pricing when it
approved fees in 2008, arguing that the agency should consider
the cost of producing the information.  Charging for data on U.S. share transactions, bid and ask
prices and trading volume for public and private feeds accounts
for as much as 17 percent of net revenue at companies such as
Nasdaq OMX and  NYSE Euronext , SEC filings show. A U.S. federal
appeals court overturned the SEC’s clearance of a 2006 fee
application from NYSE Arca on Aug. 6, saying the agency didn’t
have enough evidence that competition would hold down prices.  The issue is “whether or not competition between the
exchanges, and in particular order flow competition, constrains
pricing,” said  Edward Ferraro , a securities regulation attorney
and expert on market data in New York. He spoke yesterday at a
panel discussion with exchange executives in New York arranged
by Capital Markets Consortium.  Internet Companies  The case was brought by  NetCoalition , a policy group
representing about 20 companies including Mountain View,
California-based Google and Yahoo of Sunnyvale, California, as
well as the Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association, the largest trade group for U.S. broker-dealers.
Its aim was to get the SEC to use cost-based considerations in
evaluating whether exchange fees are “fair and reasonable”
instead of relying on market forces to limit the charges.  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, is a
member of NetCoalition and had independently asked the SEC to
set fee standards for market data in 2006.  “Cost may be a relevant factor to determine if there are
market forces at play,” Davis said. “It’s just one. It’s not
the first or last indicator.” He added that the court “flatly
rejected” the notion that cost is the only relevant factor for
determining whether data fees are fair and reasonable.  In its August decision, the court said the SEC could use a
“market-based” argument to justify exchange fees, and rejected
two arguments from NetCoalition that favored a cost-based
approach. Arca’s proposed fees were lower than those charged by
Nasdaq when it asked the SEC to approve them.  Fee Approval  NYSE Arca, owned by  NYSE Euronext , asked the court on Sept.
17 to reconsider its withdrawal of the SEC’s fee approval. The
exchange said the court’s decision “risks placing NYSE Arca in
the position of being the only market unable to charge for its
proprietary depth-of-book data product.” While the SEC hadn’t
adequately justified its decision, the court didn’t disagree
with the SEC’s approach to fees, Arca said.  Depth-of-book data from exchanges is information about bids
and offers inferior to the best prices that exist in equity
exchanges. Brokers and investors use the data to determine
supply and demand for a security and where to route larger buy
and sell requests.  At issue is the private, or non-core, data that  exchanges 
can choose to sell to brokers, vendors, high-frequency traders
and investors. It’s separate from the core, or public, data they
must provide to so-called securities information processors,
which aggregate the information and sell it to companies such as
New York-based Thomson Reuters Corp. and Bloomberg LP.  Consolidated Data  The public information, also called consolidated data,
includes the last sale price for a security, each market’s best
bid and offer, and the national best bid and offer. The data
also comprises the number of shares traded and quoted at the
best prices. U.S. exchanges and the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority generated  $464 million  in revenue in 2008
for core market data sold to vendors and investors, according to
the SEC.  NYSE Euronext got $244 million in sales from offering
public and private data in the U.S. last year. Nasdaq OMX had
$214 million in U.S. market data revenue.  “The court didn’t say if the SEC was right or wrong and
didn’t say what it would take to justify the fee,” said  James Angel , a finance professor at Georgetown University in
Washington, in an interview. Angel expects the SEC will ask
exchanges for some “cost-based information” to justify future
approvals of fees.  Competitive Market  Nasdaq  told  the SEC on Sept. 14 that the market for data
products is competitive. It also said the cost of producing the
information includes distributing it, operating the exchange’s
trading systems and regulating the market. These are “joint
products with joint costs,” the company said.  “If the cost of the product exceeds its expected value,
the broker-dealer will choose not to buy it,”  Nasdaq  said in a
statement about the market data it sells investors and firms.
“Moreover, as a broker-dealer chooses to direct fewer orders to
a particular exchange, the value of the product to that broker-
dealer decreases.”  Bats Global Markets, which operates an exchange in Kansas
City, Missouri, provides its depth-of-book market data for free.
 Eric Swanson , general counsel at Bats Exchange, said that while
the venue could “absolutely” charge for that data and is
considering fees on certain non-core products, giving it away is
currently part of the company’s “growth strategy.”  ‘Clearly Relevant’  “What the court is saying is a cost analysis is clearly
relevant,” Swanson said. The court didn’t suggest that
analyzing cost was the only way to evaluate whether the fees are
fair, he added. Factors such as competition between exchanges
for orders and trades could help prove that limitations exist on
the level of market data fees they can charge.  “We’d never do anything in the market data arena that
would have a negative impact on our transaction revenue,” said
 Michael Simon , general counsel and chief regulatory officer at
the International Securities Exchange. Two-thirds of New York-
based ISE’s revenue comes from fees for trading options, he
said. “We want to induce people to come to ISE” by making
quotes available, he said. ISE is owned by Eurex in Frankfurt.  While the equities marketplace is competitive, “exchanges
have gone from membership organizations to for-profit
companies,” Angel said. “They’re doing what a good company
tries to do for shareholders, which is to make money.” Arca had
given the data away to attract buy and sell orders before it was
acquired by NYSE in 2006 and decided to charge for it, he said.  “NetCoalition hasn’t won the case but they won the
battle,” Angel said. “The SEC will have to go back and justify
that the fee is reasonable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nina Mehta  in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 