-- Private Equity Companies' Deal Deadline to Fuel Buyouts, EQT Partner Says
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2010-09-29T06:26:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/private-equity-companies-deal-deadline-to-fuel-buyouts-eqt-partner-says.html
Private equity companies are facing
a deadline to spend cash they raised before the financial crisis
or risk having to return unused funds to investors, a senior
partner at the Nordic region’s largest buyout firm said.  “There is an increasing demand among private equity firms
to do deals,”  Thomas von Koch , head of equities at EQT Partners
AB, said in an interview at his office in Stockholm. “Firms
with funds that have done too few deals and in which the
investment period is ending need to deploy the money, and funds
that are about to start fundraising need to show performance to
investors.”  Private equity firms that raised money in 2006 didn’t have
enough time to invest fully before the global financial crisis
that began the following year destroyed confidence, von Koch
said. Most funds need to use their assets before a five-year
deadline expires in 2011 or return the money to investors,
according to the executive.  The volume of mergers in western Europe tumbled from a peak
of $520 billion in the second quarter of 2007 to a low of $65.7
billion during the first quarter of this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The region’s benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600
Index  plunged 49 percent over the period.  Sweetened Brit Offer  This month, Apollo Global Management teamed up with CVC
Capital Partners Ltd. to make a sweetened 871 million-pound
($1.37 billion) offer for Amsterdam-based insurer Brit Insurance
Holdings NV. IK Investment Partners, a private equity firm
founded in Sweden and now with its head office in London, bought
German homecare provider GHD GesundHeits GmbH Deutschland. The
Financial Times reported that several U.S. and European buyout
firms, including EQT Partners, are looking at media company
Bisnode AB, which private equity firm Ratos AB is seeking to
sell for about 800 million euros ($1.08 billion).  Swedish buyout firms have 177 billion kronor ($25.6
billion) to spend from money they have raised since 2006,
according to Linus Dahg, an analyst at the Swedish Private
Equity & Venture Capital Association in Stockholm.  “It is only the funds that can prove they could invest
during the difficult period we have gone through and show they
have a sound portfolio that will be the survivors,” EQT’s von
Koch said.  While private equity companies may be finding it easier to
sell firms in which they have invested, reaping returns by
listing a company in an initial public offering will be
difficult until the equity market stabilizes further, according
to von Koch.  ‘Harsh Landing’  “The upturn continues in virtually all economies, but
still the market has come down dramatically, anticipating a
harsh landing, a double dip,” he said. “Until that is out of
the market, the IPO market will remain closed.”  EQT and Goldman Sachs Capital Partners are considering
holding an IPO for ISS Holding A/S, the world’s largest
cleaning-service provider, three years after abandoning a
similar plan as equity markets fell. ISS has an enterprise value
including debt of 39.4 billion kroner ($7.1 billion), according
to Jyske Bank A/S estimates. Von Koch declined to comment on ISS
and Bisnode.  Altor Equity Partners AB listed  Byggmax Holding AB , the
Swedish provider of discount building materials, in Stockholm on
June 2, while Chr. Hansen Holding A/S, a Danish maker of food
ingredients owned by PAI Partners, started trading on the
Copenhagen bourse on June 3 after raising 3.15 billion kroner
selling shares.  The number of announced IPOs in western Europe so far in
2010 has jumped to 129 from 16 last year, while 1,372 deals have
been unveiled globally, compared with 557 last year, Bloomberg
data show. Sweden, the Nordic region’s largest economy, has 21
announced deals so far this year from 2 offerings in the year-
earlier period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Ewing  in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 