-- Prosecution Rests in New York Synagogue Plot Trial Against Four Men
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2010-09-29T22:05:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/prosecution-rests-in-new-york-synagogue-plot-trial-against-four-men.html
Federal prosecutors today finished
presenting their case against four men accused of plotting to
bomb New York City synagogues and shoot down military aircraft.  Defense attorneys for the four  Newburgh, New York , men said
they will present their cases tomorrow. Judge Colleen McMahon
scheduled closing arguments to begin next week, with the jury to
start deliberating Oct. 6.  McMahon this afternoon rejected a defense motion to acquit
made by Mark Gombiner, an attorney for defendant Onta Williams,
who argued that the men are the victims of entrapment by a paid
informant who’s a “compulsive liar.” The judge said it will be
up to the jury to decide whether the informant, Shahed Hussain,
is telling the truth.  “There is a lot about this case that is and always has
been troubling to me,” McMahon said after dismissing jurors for
the day. “I am glad I am not on the jury.”  The defendants, Williams, 34, James Cromitie, 44, David
Williams, 29, and Laguerre Payen, 28, are accused of plotting to
plant bombs outside a synagogue and a Jewish community center in
the Bronx section of New York City and fire heat-seeking
missiles at military planes at Stewart International Airport.  The men were working with Hussain, who posed as a member of
the Pakistan-based terrorist group  Jaish-e-Mohammad  and supplied
them with bombs and missiles that had been rendered inert by the
FBI. They were arrested in a coordinated sting in the Riverdale
section of the Bronx on May 20, 2009.  Entrapment Defense  Defense attorneys have argued that their clients are
impoverished victims of entrapment by a paid informant who lured
them into the scheme with cash and food and promises of cars,
reward money and vacations. Prosecutors say the defendants were
predisposed to commit terrorist acts.  The charges against the men include conspiracy and
attempted use of weapons of mass destruction in the U.S. They
face as long as life in prison if convicted. The trial began
Aug. 23 before McMahon in federal court.  The case is U.S. v. Cromitie, 09-cr-00558, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Dolmetsch  in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 