-- Prudential, MetLife Extend Rivalry Into Japan as AIG Retreats
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2010-09-29T18:13:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/prudential-metlife-extend-rivalry-into-japan-as-aig-retreats.html
Prudential Financial Inc.  and
 MetLife Inc. , insurers that have competed for U.S. sales for
more than a century, are extending their rivalry in Japan as
 American International Group Inc.  sells units.  Prudential, which entered Japan in 1987, is set to buy
AIG’s Star Life Insurance and Edison Life Insurance units for
$4.8 billion, three people with knowledge of the matter said
yesterday. MetLife expects to complete a $15.5 billion deal for
American Life Insurance Co., known as Alico, on Nov. 1. Both
firms sidestepped the worst of the financial crisis and are
expanding in the world’s second-largest life-insurance market as
bailed-out rivals retreat.  Prudential’s  John Strangfeld  is making his second deal in
Japan since  taking over  as chief executive officer in 2008. He’s
building a business in a nation that already contributes more
than a fifth of Prudential’s revenue. MetLife CEO  Robert Henrikson  is adding Alico’s more than $7 billion of annual
revenue in Japan to a non-U.S. business that reported $5.5
billion of revenue in 2009.  “Met is probably making a riskier acquisition, but there’s
a bigger payoff,” said  Randy Binner , an analyst who follows
U.S. insurers for FBR Capital Markets and has “outperform”
ratings on MetLife and Prudential. “Pru would not expect to
have that same kind of home run or multiple or expansion. But
they’re much more likely to execute it well.”  Prudential, the second-biggest U.S. life insurer, will pay
for the AIG units in cash, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the negotiations are private.  Purchase Prices  Prudential will pay about book value, a measure of assets
minus liabilities, for Star and Edison, according a valuation of
the businesses in AIG’s second-quarter report. MetLife is paying
about 1.2 times book value for Alico, according to the $12.8
billion valuation for the unit given by AIG in August.  Strangfeld is spending capital that Newark, New Jersey-
based Prudential accumulated after the 2008 credit crunch
interrupted insurers’ traditional sources of funding. Prudential
slashed its  dividend  two years ago and in 2009 sold a stake in a
securities brokerage for $4.5 billion. As the crisis eased last
year, Strangfeld, 56, also sold equity and debt.  Henrikson, 63, sold stock in 2008 and agreed to MetLife’s
biggest deal in March to grow beyond a U.S. life insurance
market that he described this year as “relatively slow-
growth.” MetLife, the biggest U.S. life insurer, is picking up
 Alico’s businesses  from Argentina to Russia to Qatar, including
the Japan operation that Chief Financial Officer  William Wheeler 
called a “cash machine.”  Non-U.S. Businesses  MetLife entered Japan, Australia and the U.K. with the
$11.7 billion purchase of Travelers Life & Annuity from
Citigroup Inc. in 2005. After the Alico deal, New York-based
MetLife will get about half its non-U.S. earnings from Japan,
 Suneet Kamath , an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said
in a Sept. 22 research note. Alico got $7.8 billion of its
revenue from Japan in the 12 months ended Nov. 30, or about 55
percent of its total, MetLife said in an August filing.  Japan accounted for about 17 percent of the world’s life
insurance sales last year, according to a  study  by Swiss
Reinsurance Co. Premium volume was $399 billion in 2009, down
0.8 percent when adjusted for inflation, Swiss Re said. In the
U.S., the world’s biggest market, premiums dropped 15 percent to
$492 billion, according to the Zurich-based reinsurer.  “The outlook for the Japanese life-insurance market
remains gloomy, as both household income and employment will
stagnate in 2010,” Swiss Re said in the report.  Prudential’s Japan Deals  Earnings from Star and Edison haven’t grown in recent
years, Kamath of Sanford C. Bernstein said. Prudential bought
bankrupt carrier Yamato Life Insurance Co. last year after
winning an auction for the Tokyo-based firm. Prudential acquired
a failed Japanese carrier in 2001 and renamed it Gibraltar Life
Insurance Co.  “Pru has been able to generate strong growth from
Gibraltar through improvements in agent quality, new products
and its affiliated and new distribution channels,” Kamath said
in the report. “As such, we feel Pru will look for similar
opportunities” with Star and Edison, Kamath said.  Prudential’s premiums, policy charges and fee income from
Gibraltar and other Japanese operations rose 21 percent to  $6.99
billion  last year. Prudential posted total 2009 revenue of
 $32.69 billion .  Gibraltar and Prudential’s original unit, known as
Prudential of Japan or POJ, operate separately. As of June 30,
the two subsidiaries had about $73 billion in assets, according
to a Prudential investors’  presentation  on Sept. 14 in Tokyo.  No Bailouts  Henrikson and Strangfeld shunned government bailouts last
year, while rivals  Hartford Financial Services Group Inc.  and
 Lincoln National Corp.  took U.S. capital injections. Hartford,
based in the Connecticut city of the same name, was hurt by
investment declines and retreated from Japanese and European
markets to concentrate on U.S. operations. Philadelphia-based
Lincoln sold a U.K. unit and an asset manager.  AIG, once the world’s biggest insurer, is divesting
businesses to repay a $182.3 billion U.S. rescue. The Alico deal
was valued by MetLife at $16.1 billion in August after the
market price of its securities rose.  AIG agreed to hold about $3 billion in MetLife securities
from the deal in escrow to indemnify the buyer from costs tied
to Alico. The funds could shield MetLife from losses on Alico’s
Japanese commercial real estate holdings. AIG also agreed to
indemnify MetLife for legal claims and regulatory fines tied to
European funds in which client withdrawals were suspended.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net ; 