-- Qwest, KPN Sued Over Joint Venture KPNQwest's 2002 Bankruptcy, Unpaid Debt
-- B y   M a r t i j n   v a n   d e r   S t a r r e
-- 2010-09-29T11:11:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/qwest-kpn-sued-over-2002-bankruptcy-of-kpnqwest-unpaid-debts.html
Qwest Communications International
Inc. ,  Royal KPN NV  and 12 executives were sued by KPNQwest NV’s
administrators over the company’s 2002 bankruptcy and
4.2 billion euros ($5.7 billion) of unpaid debt.  The defendants have to appear Jan. 19 in a district court
in the Dutch city of Haarlem, KPNQwest’s court appointed
administrators at law firm Houthoff Buruma said today in an e-
mailed statement. The administrators hold the companies and
executives responsible for the bankruptcy, they said.  “An investigation by the administrators shows that the
bankruptcy was caused by mismanagement and inadequate
supervision,” the administrators said.  KPNQwest, a joint venture of KPN and Qwest, was declared
bankrupt in 2002 after building a 60-city phone and Internet
network just before prices for telecommunications services
collapsed. The company, which served customers including AOL
Inc., Deutsche Telekom AG and Dell Inc. through Europe’s largest
fiber-optic network, had to sell the 25,000-kilometer system off
in pieces after failing to find a buyer for the whole business.  The company didn’t change strategy and tripled its
investments in the network, even though market prices had fallen
by as much as 80 percent by 1999, the year KPNQwest was founded,
the administrators said. Hoofddorp, Netherlands-based KPNQwest
sold shares to the public that year.  The Hague-based KPN, the largest Dutch phone company, is
reviewing the subpoena, said  Stefan Simons , a spokesman for the
company, who declined to comment further. Calls before business
hours to Denver-based Qwest, the phone company being bought by
CenturyTel Inc., and to the court’s press office weren’t
immediately answered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Martijn van der Starre  in Amsterdam at 
 vanderstarre@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  