-- Treasury to Sell $2.2 Billion Citigroup Bailout Trups
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   B r a d l e y   K e o u n
-- 2010-09-29T22:17:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/treasury-will-sell-2-2-billion-of-citigroup-securities-to-lock-in-profits.html
The U.S. Treasury Department plans
to sell $2.2 billion of  Citigroup Inc.  securities under a plan
to lock in profits from the bank’s 2008 bailout.  The Treasury will sell the trust preferred securities, or
Trups, through a public offering managed by  Bank of America
Corp. ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , Morgan Stanley,  UBS AG  and  Wells
Fargo & Co. , the department said today in a statement. Citigroup
will “act as global coordinator but not as an underwriter or a
sales agent,” the Treasury said.  The government received the securities from Citigroup as
payment for $301 billion of asset guarantees, provided to help
shore up investor confidence in the New York-based bank as its
shares plunged in November 2008. Citigroup, the fourth-largest
U.S. bank by deposits, agreed to terminate the guarantees in
December 2009. The Treasury kept $2.2 billion of the securities
as compensation for the risk it took while the guarantees were
in place.  “Because Treasury was never required to make any payment
under the arrangement and has no further obligation to do so,
all proceeds from the sale will constitute a net gain to the
taxpayer under the program,” the department said.  Repaying Treasury  Trups are securities that would rank senior to common stock
in a liquidation and junior to most bonds. Citigroup also
received $45 billion of funds from the Treasury as part of the
2008 bailout. The department converted $25 billion of the funds
into common stock last year, and the bank repaid the remaining
$20 billion. As of July 1, the Treasury still held 5.1 billion
of the bank’s shares, or 18 percent.  “At the initiative of the U.S. Treasury (UST), Citi has
elected to remarket the entirety of the trust preferred
securities held by the UST,” said  Jon Diat , a Citigroup
spokesman, in a statement. “We are very appreciative of the
support provided by the UST during the financial crisis.”  The government is trying to show a profit on the preferred
and common stakes it took in banks and other companies that got
capital infusions under the $700 billion Troubled Asset Relief
Program. The government holds $2.67 billion of trust-preferred
securities in Ally Financial Inc., formerly known as GMAC, in
addition to 56.3 percent of the auto-finance company’s common
stock.  The Treasury also holds $935 million of Trups in  Popular
Inc.,  a Puerto Rican lender, a spokesman said in an e-mail
today.  ‘Self-Sufficient’  Today’s announcement “proves that Citigroup is
increasingly self-sufficient in the private market,” said
 Phillip Jacoby , a senior portfolio manager with Spectrum Asset
Management Inc., the biggest U.S. manager of preferred
securities portfolios.  Citigroup issued a combined $7.06 billion in preferred
shares to the Treasury and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.,
later upgraded to Trups. The FDIC still holds $3.03 billion,
including the $800 million it is scheduled to pay to the
Treasury once Citigroup repays government-guaranteed bonds sold
under an FDIC emergency funding program. This figure wasn’t
included in today’s offering.  The FDIC “continues to monitor the market and UST actions
to support any future decisions,”  said  Andrew Gray , a
spokesman for the agency, in an e-mailed statement.  The Trups may yield 7.875 percent until 2015 and then
pay 637 basis points more than the three-month London interbank
offered rate until 2040, according to a person familiar with the
offering. In March, the bank sold $2 billion of Trups at a fixed
8.5 percent yield.  The U.S. Treasury may sell the securities as soon as
tomorrow through a public offering managed by Bank of America
Corp., JPMorgan Chase & Co., Morgan Stanley, UBS AG and Wells
Fargo & Co., said the person, who declined to be identified
because terms aren’t set.  Three-month Libor, a lending benchmark, is 0.29 percent. A
basis point is 0.01 percent.  Citigroup shares rose 1 percent to $3.92 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Donal Griffin  in New York at 
 Dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
 Bradley Keoun  in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alec McCabe at 
 amccabe@bloomberg.net . 