-- Treasuries Snap Two-Day Gain as Stocks Advance Before Seven-Year Auction
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   Y a s u h i k o   S e k i
-- 2010-09-29T07:09:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/treasuries-snap-two-day-gain-as-stocks-advance-before-seven-year-auction.html
Treasuries  snapped a two-day gain
as Asian stocks rose and the U.S. government prepared to sell
$29 billion of seven-year debt.  Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart 
said policy makers haven’t agreed on whether to begin a new
program of buying Treasuries, and the need for further monetary
easing isn’t clear. Fed Governor  Kevin Warsh  said financial
markets and the economy are getting better without being fully
healed. Today’s auction is the last of three sales this week
totaling $100 billion.  “The market’s biding its time before the seven-year
auction,” said  Orlando Green , assistant director of capital
markets strategy at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank
in London. “The Fed will try to manage expectations surrounding
the possibility of further bond buying, and it’s very much a
wait-and-see mode.”  The yield on the benchmark 10-year note rose 1 basis point
to 2.48 percent as of 7:53 a.m. in London, according to BGCantor
Market Data. The 2.625 percent security due in August 2020 fell
3/32, or 94 cents per $1,000 face amount, to 101 9/32. The yield
dropped to 2.42 percent on Aug. 25, the lowest since Jan. 21,
2009.  The five-year note  yielded  1.27 percent, after declining to
1.22 percent yesterday, the least since Dec. 17, 2008.  The  MSCI World  Index of shares rose 0.3 percent, after the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.5 percent yesterday in
New York.  Treasuries have handed investors a return of 2.9 percent
since the end of June, a third quarterly gain and the longest
winning streak in two years, according to indexes compiled by
Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit.  Seven-Year Sale  The seven-year notes being sold today yielded 1.88 percent
in pre-auction trading, compared with 1.989 percent at the
previous auction of the securities on Aug. 26.  Investors  bid  for 2.98 times the amount on offer last
month, compared with an average of 2.84 for the past 10 sales.
Indirect  bidders,  the category of investors that includes
foreign central banks, bought 56.7 percent of the notes, versus
the 10-sale average of 50 percent.  “The seven-year note offers the biggest challenge of this
week’s auctions, as it looks quite expensive on the yield
curve,” Green said.  Yesterday’s offering of five-year notes produced a yield of
1.26 percent, the lowest since the government began quarterly
offerings of the securities in 1976. That compared with the
1.276 percent average forecast in a Bloomberg survey of eight
primary dealers.  Manufacturing Slows  Treasury 10-year yields were within five basis points of
the lowest level since January 2009 before a report this week
that economists said will show manufacturing activity slowed
this month.  “The set of incoming data will show sluggishness in the
U.S. economy, and bode well for bonds, supporting expectations
for additional monetary action,” said  Masashi Nakamura , a
Tokyo-based economist at Mizuho Research Institute Ltd., a unit
of Japan’s second-largest bank. “This will add to downward
pressure on bond yields.”  The Institute for Supply Management’s  factory index  fell to
54.5 in September from 56.3 in August, according to a Bloomberg
survey before the Oct. 1 report. U.S. factory orders declined
0.3 percent in August following a 0.1 percent gain the previous
month, according to a separate survey ahead of the figures to be
released Oct. 4.  The Conference Board said yesterday its confidence index
slid in September to the lowest level since February.  ‘Intensify’  The  extra yield  investors pay to hold 10-year notes over
two-year debt shrank to 2.02 percentage points yesterday, the
narrowest since Sept. 1, reflecting concern the U.S. economic
recovery is stalling.  The Atlanta Fed’s Lockhart said the debate over whether
policy makers should undertake a new round of asset purchases
will “intensify” soon, and officials have the “will to act”
as needed to support the flagging recovery.  “In the coming weeks, monetary policy makers must come to
grips with the question of whether there is anything they can do
to improve the situation in the economy and, if so, what that
action should be,” Lockhart said in the text of a speech
yesterday in Sewanee, Tennessee.  The Fed’s Warsh said the economy is improving.  “Markets are normalizing if not normal,” Warsh said
yesterday during a panel discussion at Georgetown University in
Washington.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices, has widened to 1.83 percentage points from
this year’s low of 1.47 percentage points in August. The five-
year average was 2.10 percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 Kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
 Yasuhiko Seki  in Tokyo at 
 yseki5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  