-- Recession in U.S. Weighed on Incomes, Marriage, Teen Employment
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n   a n d   A l e x a n d r a   H a r r i s
-- 2010-09-29T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/recession-s-toll-in-u-s-ranged-from-incomes-to-marriage-census-data-show.html
The worst U.S. recession since the
Great Depression last year hurt almost every part of American
life, from household finances to marriage rates and teenage
employment, according to Census Bureau figures.  Median household income fell in 34 states, led by  Michigan 
and  Florida , up from eight with declines the year before, the
Census Bureau said yesterday in its annual  American Community
Survey .  Maryland  had the highest income for a fourth consecutive
year, at $69,272, even as its median dropped from $70,545 in
2008.  The 18-month recession, which ended in June 2009, led to
the loss of more than 8.4 million jobs, drove the  unemployment
rate  close to a 26-year high and contributed to a 26 percent
decline in the median home price. Consumer spending, which
accounts for about 70 percent of the economy, last year declined
the most since 1942.  “Some of the impacts that we see are going to be
temporary,” said Audrey Singer, a senior fellow at Brookings
Institution in Washington. “Once the recovery really gets under
way, we may see a lot of positive changes, especially the
employment figures and household income.”  Household income in Michigan fell 6.2 percent to $45,255,
adjusted for inflation, and Florida followed with a decrease of
5.7 percent, to $44,736, the bureau said.  North Dakota was the only state where incomes rose. The
state’s median climbed 5.1 percent to $47,827, the eighth
straight annual gain. Fifteen states and the District of
Columbia showed changes that were statistically insignificant,
the bureau said.  Mississippi Is Lowest  Nationally, median household income fell 2.9 percent in
2009 to $50,221, the second straight annual drop, the Census
Bureau said.  Mississippi  had the lowest income for at least the
fifth straight year, at $36,646.  The recession “hammered the economy and engulfed every
state,” said  Mark Zandi , chief economist at Moody’s Analytics
Inc. in West Chester, Pennsylvania. “We’re light years away
from gaining jobs.”  The recession hurt more than half of Americans, especially
younger people, minorities and those with a high school
education or less, according to a Pew Research Center survey
released last week. The report found that 55 percent of
Americans faced challenges such as unemployment, delinquent
mortgage or rent payments, shrinking paychecks or shattered
household budgets, and sometimes a combination of those.  The labor-force participation rate for teenagers fell to
40.6 percent last year from 43.8 percent in 2008, according to
the Census data. The percentage of teens not enrolled in school
or working increased to 5.6, from 5.3 the previous year.  Teenage Unemployment  The unemployment rate for  teenagers  in October 2009 climbed
to 27.6 percent, the highest since record-keeping began in 1948,
according to the Labor Department.  “This unemployment rate among youth and new entrants into
the labor market may have a longer-term effect depending on how
the recovery goes for that age group,” Singer said.  For Americans a few years older, the recession may have had
an impact on one area outside of work: marriage. An analysis of
the Census data by the Population Reference Bureau, a
Washington-based research organization, found that for the  first
time  in more than 100 years of record-keeping, the proportion of
unmarried Americans aged 25-34 was higher than those who are
married.  The American Community Survey data are used to help
determine the annual distribution of more than $400 billion in
federal and state funds, the bureau said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net ;
 Alexandra Harris  in New York at 
 Aharris48@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  