-- Reid Says He Hopes for Vote on Fed Nominees Before Senate Election Break
-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 2010-09-29T20:24:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/reid-says-he-hopes-for-vote-on-fed-nominees-before-senate-election-break.html
U.S. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said he hopes the chamber will vote on two Federal Reserve
nominees before lawmakers adjourn as soon as today for midterm
elections.  “We hope to get two of them done before we leave,” Reid,
a Nevada Democrat, told reporters at a press conference. The two
nominees who can be confirmed are San Francisco Fed President
 Janet Yellen  for vice chairman and  Sarah Bloom Raskin , a
Maryland financial regulator, for a governor slot.  Senate approval would clear the way for Yellen, 64, and
Raskin, 49, to vote at the  central bank’s  Nov. 2-3 policy
meeting, when some economists predict the Fed will resume large-
scale asset purchases to lower interest rates and help reduce
unemployment persisting near a 26-year high.  Don Stewart, a spokesman for Senate Republican Leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky, said in an e-mail that no agreements are
“locked in yet” to confirm the Fed nominees.  The Fed has been operating with four of seven governors
since former Vice Chairman  Donald Kohn  retired Sept. 1. Without
a full complement, existing governors have additional duties
overseeing supervision, budgets and regional Fed banks that are
usually spread out among members. The central bank is gearing up
to carry out directives under the Dodd-Frank law overhauling
financial regulation that was enacted in July.  Yellen, Raskin and a third nominee,  Peter Diamond , were
selected by President  Barack Obama  in April. Diamond, a
Massachusetts Institute of Technology economist, was forced to
start the confirmation process over in August because of
objections from at least one unidentified senator. The White
House resubmitted his nomination to the Senate on Sept. 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  