-- Republican Groups Outspend Parties to Sway U.S. Elections
-- B y   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2010-09-29T19:13:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/republican-leaning-groups-outspend-both-parties-in-bid-to-sway-elections.html
Republican-leaning groups outspent
the two political parties combined during September’s first four
weeks in a bid to sway the U.S. congressional elections,
 Federal Election Commission  reports show.  The groups -- including Crossroads GPS, advised by
Republican strategist  Karl Rove , and the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce -- spent more than $33 million, mainly on advertising.
That compares with just under $20 million spent by the
Republican and Democratic committees charged with electing their
party’s candidates.  Outside organizations are focusing most of their fire on
Senate races, particularly in California, Colorado, Florida,
Missouri, Nevada and Pennsylvania, their reports to the  FEC 
show. Many of the groups are registered as nonprofits that don’t
have to disclose their donors, drawing protest from Democrats
including President  Barack Obama  and Montana Senator  Max Baucus .  “Republican operatives in the shadows are clearly winning
the hidden money game,” said  Linda Fowler , a government
professor at Dartmouth College in Hanover, New Hampshire.  Obama has used two of his recent weekly addresses to blast
Republicans for blocking legislation that would make groups
engaged in political activity report their contributions.
Baucus, the Senate Finance Committee chairman, today asked
Internal Revenue Service Commissioner  Doug Shulman  to
investigate the organizations.  ‘Political Pawns’  “Political campaigns and powerful individuals should not
be able to use tax-exempt organizations as political pawns to
serve their own special interests,” Baucus said in a statement
released by his office. He said his committee may hold hearings
or draft legislation in response to what the IRS finds.  As a trade group, the  chamber  doesn’t have to disclose its
donors even though it is publicly playing a major role in the
campaign, with plans to spend $75 million. Crossroads GPS says
it engages in issue advocacy and grassroots lobbying. Neither of
the Washington-based groups has to register with the FEC, though
they do have to report some political activity.  The chamber has spent about $4 million on ads targeting
Democratic Senators  Barbara Boxer  in California and  Michael Bennet  in Colorado, among others. Crossroads GPS yesterday
reported spending almost $1.2 million on television ads to
oppose Democratic candidates  Robin Carnahan  in Missouri and  Joe Sestak  in Pennsylvania and Senator  Patty Murray  in Washington.  Some of the groups “seem to be testing the limits of what
they can do, so pushback was inevitable,” Fowler said.  Action Unlikely  Still, Baucus’s request may not result in any action. Since
the IRS is first and foremost concerned with tax evasion, any
look at these groups may have to wait until long after the Nov.
2 elections are over, said Paul Ryan, associate legal counsel
with the  Campaign Legal Center , a Washington watchdog group.  Many of the groups “will be gone by then,” Ryan said.
“They were created this year and they will be dissolved after
the election.”  The groups themselves say they are acting legally.  “We comply with all rules and regulations,” said chamber
spokesman  J.P. Fielder . “The chamber has been and will continue
to be engaged in the issue debate.”  Crossroads GPS  spokesman  Jonathan Collegio  said “the law
is clear, and we follow it carefully.”  Baucus may be trying to score political points even if he
doesn’t succeed in changing the campaign’s landscape, said
 David Primo , a political science professor at the University of
Rochester in New York.  Election ‘Stunt’  “This strikes me as an election-season stunt to create the
appearance that these groups are acting in an illegal way,”
Primo said.  The outside spending is making up for a $20 million cash
advantage the three main Democratic Party fundraising committees
had over their Republican counterparts heading into September.
In the first four weeks of September, the Democratic committees
spent more than $11 million, compared with $8.2 million by their
Republican Party rivals.  Democratic-leaning outside groups spent less than $6
million in that same time period.  Some of the Republican-leaning groups have focused more on
House races.  Americans for Job Security , an Alexandria,
Virginia-based group that says it promotes free markets and
“pro-paycheck public policy,” has reported spending about $4
million in House districts in Indiana, New Mexico, New York,
North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania and Virginia.  “Our primary purpose is still issue advocacy,” said
Stephen DeMaura, the group’s president, in an interview. “Our
goal is to talk about issues, whether through issue advocacy or
electioneering communications or independent expenditures.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kristin Jensen  in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 