-- Tribune, Lehman, Visteon, Mexicana, Sea Island, Gemcraft: Bankruptcy
-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2010-09-29T13:04:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/tribune-lehman-visteon-mexicana-sea-island-bankruptcy.html
Publisher  Tribune Co.  announced
yesterday that mediation resulted in agreement with some
creditors on a reorganization plan along the lines proposed
earlier this month by creditors Oaktree Capital Management LP
and Angelo Gordon & Co.  The official creditors’ committee issued a statement saying
it opposes the new plan because it “does not provide fair value
to all creditors.”  Oaktree and Angelo Gordon are to be co-proponents of the
plan along with Tribune. The plan would confirm the validity of
the $6.6 billion in claims related to the first part of the
leveraged buyout in June 2007. If not settled before the plan is
approved, a lawsuit would continue after confirmation attacking
the validity of $2.1 billion in secured claims that resulted
from the second part of the LBO that concluded in December 2007.  Graeme Bush , a special counsel for the creditors’ panel,
said in an interview that the new plan is “simply not
adequate.” Bush, with the firm Zuckerman Spaeder LLP in
Washington, said the “deal was reached without participation of
the committee.” The committee press release says the plan was
negotiated between Tribune and “certain lenders that are
defendants in the litigation that the committee seeks to
pursue.”  The mediator, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Kevin Gross , filed a
report with the bankruptcy court late yesterday saying he did
“not consider the mediation to be closed.” Gross, a bankruptcy
judge in Delaware, believes the plan will lead to “additional
constructive discussions with other parties.” Gross said the
mediation, conducted on Sept. 26 and 27, brought agreement
between Tribune and Oaktree and Angelo Gordon. Gross did not say
that other creditors are in accord with the settlement.  Before the settlement was announced, 14 lenders with $730
million in claims from the first part of the LBO filed papers in
bankruptcy court contending that the Oaktree-Angelo Gordon plan
from earlier this month is “neither fair nor equitable” to
them. They say that the Oaktree-Angelo Gordon disclosure
statement didn’t accurately describe the recovery by lenders in
the first part of the LBO. They say it also wouldn’t allow the
bankruptcy court to void a so-called sharing provision that
would limit recovery by the step-one lenders.  The step-one lenders say the disclosure statement isn’t
accurate when it says their claims would be allowed and they
would recover 88 percent. Instead, the sharing provision would
require them to turn 21 percent over to the lenders in the
December 2007 portion of the transaction, in the process
lowering their recovery to 67 percent.  Yesterday’s statement by Tribune said that the settlement
would give a total distribution of $300 million to senior
bondholders in the form of cash plus an interest in the trust to
bring suits.  Tribune’s unsecured creditors are to have the same recovery
through cash and recoveries by the trust. Unsecured creditors of
operating subsidiaries will be offered 50 percent in cash.  When exclusivity expired after Tribune was in Chapter 11
for 18 months, Oaktree and Angelo Gordon filed their own plan
earlier this month. At the time, Tribune said it might become
the reorganization structure. For details on the creditors’
plan, click here for the Sept. 20 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  Tribune withdrew its own Chapter 11 plan in August
following a report by the examiner, who concluded that there was
some likelihood that the second phase of the leveraged buyout in
December 2007 could be attacked successfully as a constructively
fraudulent transfer. The examiner found less likelihood that the
first phase of the transaction, in June 2007, could be unraveled
as a fraudulent transfer. For a summary of some of the
examiner’s conclusions, click here for the July 27 Bloomberg
bankruptcy report.  Tribune’s abandoned plan would have forced a settlement of
the LBO claims on terms that some creditors opposed. For details
on the withdrawn plan, the proposed settlement, and the parties’
arguments, click here for the April 13 Bloomberg bankruptcy
report.  The $13.7 billion leveraged buyout in 2007 was led by  Sam Zell .  Tribune is the second-largest newspaper publisher in the
U.S. It listed $13 billion in debt for borrowed money and assets
of $7.6 billion in the Chapter 11 reorganization begun in
December 2008. It owns the Chicago Tribune, Los Angeles Times,
six other newspapers and 23 television stations.  The case is In re Tribune Co., 08-13141, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District Delaware (Wilmington).  Updates  Lehman Flip Clause Appeal May Be Complete This Year  There could be an appellate ruling by the year’s end on so-
called flip clauses in swap agreements. U.S. District Judge
 Colleen McMahon  wrote an opinion last week where she permitted
BNY Corporate Trustee Services Ltd. to take a so-called
interlocutory appeal from a January ruling by the bankruptcy
court in favor of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.   U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James M. Peck ruled in January that
the flip clause violates a provision in bankruptcy law
prohibiting the loss rights simply as the result of filing in
bankruptcy.  The case involved swap agreements where collateral
ordinarily would go first to a Lehman subsidiary as the swap
counterparty. As the result of the bankruptcy filing by the
Lehman holding company, the flip clause caused collateral to go
first to noteholders and only to a non-bankrupt Lehman
subsidiary after the noteholders were fully paid.  In bankruptcy cases, rulings can be appealed only when they
are “final.” A case not final is called interlocutory.
Bankruptcy law permits an interlocutory appeal if the case
involves a “controlling question of law,” there are
“substantial grounds for a difference of opinion,” and an
immediate appeal “may materially advance the ultimate
termination” of the lawsuit, McMahon said.  McMahon concluded that the flip appeal satisfies all the
requirements for an interlocutory appeal. She directed the
parties to attend an Oct. 1 conference to decide on a schedule
for an “expedited briefing schedule.”  McMahon said that Peck’s ruling was unique and
controversial because he voided the flip clause when the
triggering event was the bankruptcy of an affiliate of the swap
part, not the bankruptcy of the swap party itself.  McMahon criticized Lehman for opposing an interlocutory
appeal in an attempt “to insulate Judge Peck’s decision from
appellate review for as long as possible.” She noted how Lehman
had been using Peck’s opinion “as leverage in settlement
negotiations concerning billions of dollars worth of similar
transactions.”  McMahon concluded that trying to insulate Peck’s opinion
“from appellate scrutiny only further demonstrates the need for
immediate review.”  To read about the January decision regarding flip
transactions, click here and see the Advance Sheets item in the
Feb. 1 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  The Lehman holding company and its non-brokerage
subsidiaries filed a revised Chapter 11 plan and disclosure
statement in April. For details, click here and here for the
April 15 and 16 Bloomberg bankruptcy reports. Lehman said this
month that it intends to amend the plan in the last quarter of
the year and have the plan approved in a confirmation order by
March.  The Lehman holding company filed under Chapter 11 in New
York on Sept. 15, 2008, and sold office buildings and the North
American investment banking business to London-based  Barclays
Plc  one week later. The Lehman brokerage operations went into
liquidation on Sept. 19, 2008 in the same court. The brokerage
is in the control of a trustee appointed under the Securities
Investor Protection Act.  The Lehman holding company Chapter 11 case is In re Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555, while the liquidation
proceeding under the Securities Investor Protection Act for the
brokerage operation is Securities Investors Protection Corp. v.
Lehman Brothers Inc., 08-01420, both in U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District New York (Manhattan).  Visteon Settles All Outstanding Issues with Ford  Auto parts maker  Visteon Corp . is cleaning up details to
allow for implementing the Chapter 11 plan on Oct. 1. The
reorganization was approved in an Aug. 31 confirmation order.  Visteon reached settlement with former parent  Ford Motor
Co . on a variety of issues. Among them, Ford commits to
purchasing $600 million in parts for models launching through
2013. Each side will drop claims against the other. Ford will
withdraw $163 million in claims while terminating Visteon’s
obligation for $105 million in pension expenses. Ford will
reimburse Visteon for $29 million for restructuring activities
around the world.  Visteon said in a court filing yesterday that the final
five members of the new nine-member board of directors haven’t
been officially selected. Visteon wants the bankruptcy judge to
rule that the appointments need not be final before the plan is
implemented.  The hearing on the Ford settlement and the board issue will
be held today.  For details on Visteon’s plan, click here for the June 15
Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  Visteon filed for reorganization in May 2009, listing
assets of $4.6 billion against debt totaling $5.3 billion. Sales
in 2008 were $9.5 billion, including $3.1 billion to  Ford Motor
Co . Visteon was spun off from Ford in 2000. Van Buren Township,
Michigan-based Visteon at the outset owed $2.7 billion for
borrowed money, including $1.5 billion on a secured-term loan,
$862 million on unsecured bonds, and $214 million on other debt
obligations.  The case is In re Visteon Corp., 09-11786, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  American Safety Razor Declines Offer from Energizer  American Safety Razor Co. , the fourth-largest maker of wet-
shaving blades, began the hearing yesterday to approve the sale
of the business to first-lien lenders in exchange for debt.  The company explained to the bankruptcy judge why it turned
down a seemingly higher $301 million cash offer from  Energizer
Holdings Inc. , maker of Schick shavers. According to ASR,
government regulators might block an Energizer deal on antitrust
grounds. Energizer wouldn’t submit a bid without an escape
clause in the event regulators objected, ASR said.  The hearing continues today. For Bloomberg coverage, click
here.  When ASR filed under Chapter 11 in July, it gave second-
lien creditors an opportunity to devise a plan more favorable
than swapping the business for the $244.4 million owing on the
first-lien revolving credit and term loan. Debt on the second-
lien loan is $178.1 million. Mezzanine lenders are owed another
$60 million that pays in kind.  The agent for the first-lien lenders is  UBS AG . ASR had
revenue of $330 million in 2009.  ASR, based in Cedar Knolls, New Jersey, has U.S. plants in
Virginia and Tennessee. Affiliates abroad aren’t in bankruptcy.
It was acquired for $625 million in July 2006 by London-based
Lion Capital LLP.  ASR has the largest market share for private-label blades,
although only 8 percent when branded goods are included,
according to Moody’s Investors Service.  The case is In re American Safety Razor Co., 10-12351, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Orleans Seeks More Exclusivity If Plan Doesn’t Work  In case  Orleans Homebuilders Inc . doesn’t succeed in
persuading the bankruptcy judge to approve the disclosure
statement at a hearing today, the homebuilder for a second time
is requesting an extension of the exclusive right to propose a
Chapter 11 plan.  If granted by the court at a Nov. 8 hearing, the new
deadline would be Nov. 26. Should the bankruptcy judge approves
the disclosure statement today, Orleans says the plan may be
approved at a confirmation hearing in November.  Orleans, a builder of homes and condominiums in seven
states, in August filed the plan designed to give stock and new
secured debt to revolving credit lenders owed $234 million.
Unsecured creditors would get lawsuit recoveries and share
proceeds from property sales after secured debt is paid.  The disclosure statement projects that the revolving credit
lenders should recover between 67 percent and 87 percent if they
vote for the plan. Unsecured creditors should see between 3.4
percent and 5.25 percent if they vote “yes” as a class.  Orleans negotiated the plan with holders of more than 80
percent of the secured debt. The plan reduces debt to less than
$200 million from more than $400 million, the company said in a
statement.  Orleans originally intended to sell the business for $170
million to rival homebuilder  NVR Inc.  Orleans dropped the sale
in favor of a plan where lenders would take ownership. NVR sued
for breach of contract.  The Chapter 11 filing on March 1 by Bensalem, Pennsylvania-
based Orleans resulted from the maturity of the revolving credit
in February. About $325 million was owing to the banks at
maturity, not including $15 million on letters of credit. The
March 31 balance sheet listed assets of $591 million against
total liabilities of $560 million.  The case is In re Orleans Homebuilders Inc., 10-10684, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Rubicon Plan Implemented by Starwood, JPMorgan  Rubicon US REIT Inc. implemented the noteholders’
reorganization plan that was confirmed in June, according to a
statement from the group that held all the bonds.  The reorganization plan for Rubicon, a Chicago-based real
estate investment trust, exchanged the notes for all the new
common stock plus a $50 million note. The plan reinstated $311
million in mortgages while extinguishing existing common stock.
Unsecured creditors, owed $1 million, were paid in full. The
Class A preferred stockholders keep their equity.  Affiliates of Starwood Capital Group Global LP, Kaufman
Jacobs LLC and JPMorgan Chase & Co. owned all the bonds, the
statement said.  The disclosure statement predicted a 68.7 percent recovery
by noteholders who were allowed to propose a plan of their own
after filing a successful motion to end so-called exclusivity
when the case was only three weeks old. Noteholders wanted their
own plan to avoid being cashed out involuntarily.  The Chapter 11 filing in January by Rubicon and affiliates
came more than a year after the bankruptcy of the Australian
parent  Allco Finance Group . Rubicon was required by the parent’s
liquidator to attempt to sell the assets. Bankruptcy court
papers say assets and debt exceed $100 million.  The case is In re Rubicon US REIT Inc., 10-10160, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Mexicana Continues Ordering Parts from Airbus  Compania Mexicana de Aviacion SA de CV, the Mexican airline
known as Mexicana, decided again to put off a hearing for
approval of the Chapter 15 petition filed on Aug. 2 in New York.
The new hearing date is Oct. 21. Opposition already was filed by
an aircraft owner and airport authorities.  Airbus SAS, the European aircraft manufacturer, filed
papers on Sept. 24 aiming to join those with limited opposition
to the Chapter 15 petition.  Although Mexicana stopped flying on Aug. 28, the airline
continued placing orders for parts. Airbus said it can’t
determine whether the orders are for aircraft belonging to
Mexicana or for aircraft owned by others where Mexicana is
performing maintenance.  Airbus is likely concerned that it may not be paid if the
parts are for Mexicana aircraft. If the parts are destined for
aircraft owned by someone else, Airbus could have a lien on the
aircraft should Mexicana not pay for the part.  Alongside the Chapter 11 case, Mexicana simultaneously
began a reorganization in Mexico called a concurso mercantile.  The U.S. court gave Mexicana temporary protection from
creditor actions in the U.S. on Aug. 18. The hearing now set for
Oct. 21 will allow the U.S. court to rule whether Mexico is
properly home to the so-called foreign main proceeding. If the
U.S. judge goes along, all creditor actions in the U.S. will be
halted, except to the extent the U.S. judge rules otherwise. To
be eligible for Chapter 15, Mexicana must comply with some
features of U.S. law.  The U.S. case is Compania Mexicana De Aviacion SA de CV,
10-14182, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New York
(Manhattan).  Sea Island Plan Set for November 4 Confirmation  Sea Island Co., a resort and real estate development
company, will have a confirmation hearing on Nov. 4 now that the
bankruptcy court in Savannah, Georgia, has approved the
disclosure statement.  Assuming there is no higher offer at an auction on Oct. 11,
a company affiliated with Oaktree Capital Management LP and
Avenue Capital Group will buy the business for $197.5 million.
The sale will be approved as part of confirming the plan. The
properties are on or near St. Simons Island and Sea Island,
Georgia.  From the sale price, Sea Island projects having $180
million remaining after paying priority claims. If unsecured
creditors vote for the plan, they can split up $3 million, for a
projected 3 percent recovery on their $100 million in claims.  The remaining $177 million will go to secured lenders with
$566 million in claims. Their dividend is expected to be 31
percent.  Unsecured creditors who vote against the plan and don’t
give releases are projected to recover nothing.  The Chapter 11 plan was negotiated before the bankruptcy
petition was filed on Aug. 10.  Synovus Bank,  Bank of America  Corp. and Bank of Scotland
are lenders.  The case is In re Sea Island Company, 10-21034, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of Georgia (Savannah).  Gemcraft Confirms Chapter 11 Plan This Week  Gemcraft Homes Inc. , a homebuilder based in Forest Hill,
Maryland, secured approval of the Chapter 11 plan at a Sept. 27
confirmation hearing, court records show.  Gemcraft filed under Chapter 11 in November, owing $131
million to secured lenders. Lenders not having agreements with
Gemcraft will take their collateral back under the plan.  Unsecured creditors can split up $500,000 cash plus
recoveries from a litigation trust. Mechanics’ lien holders will
be treated as unsecured creditors unless the bankruptcy court
rules that a mechanics’ lien comes ahead of a lender’s mortgage.  Closely held Gemcraft sold 770 homes in 2006. Revenue
shrank to $83 million in 2009.  The case is In re Gemcraft Homes Inc., 09-31696, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Maryland (Baltimore).  Daily Podcast  Blockbuster, Thompson Publishing, CGBG Video Game: Audio  The looming valuation fight over the reorganization of
 Blockbuster Inc. , the sale of Thompson Publishing Holding Co. to
secured creditors, and the trademarks of  CBGB Holdings LLC  on a
 Guitar Hero  video game are topics covered in the bankruptcy
podcast on the Bloomberg terminal and Bloomberglaw.com. To
listen, click here.  New Filing  Office Building in Henderson NV Files in Las Vegas  The owner of the 58,800 square-foot  Mammoth Professional
Building  on St. Rose Parkway in Henderson, Nevada, filed for
Chapter 11 protection on Sept. 27 in Las Vegas.  Court papers say the building is worth $7.35 million and
has a mortgage of $11.25 million.  The case is In re Mammoth Henderson I LLC, 10-28261, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Nevada (Las Vegas).  Briefly Noted  Ultimate Escapes Removes CEO Tousignant for ‘Cause’  Ultimate Escapes Inc. , a destination club operator that
filed for Chapter 11 protection on Sept. 20, said in regulatory
filing yesterday that President and Chief Executive  James M. Tousignant  was “removed” by the board for “cause.” Reasons
weren’t given. Although a replacement hasn’t been selected,
Chief Restructuring Officer  Sheon Karol  will take over day-to-
day operations. Karol is with CRG Partners Group LLC.  Kissimmee, Florida-based Ultimate Escapes intends to sell
the business to secured lender CapitalSource Finance LLC unless
there’s a better offer at auction on Oct. 20. It owns or leases
119 residences in 45 destinations and has about 1,250 members.
The June 30 balance sheet had $189 million in assets against
total liabilities of $222 million.  The case is In re Ultimate Escapes Holdings LLC, 10-12915,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Fraser Papers to Shut New Hampshire Plant After Sale Fails  Fraser Papers Inc. , a specialty paper manufacturer based in
Toronto, announced that it will close a plant in Gorham, New
Hampshire in October because the prospective buyer was unable to
arrange financing. Fraser said the shutdown would be indefinite,
depending on whether another buyer surfaces.  Fraser’s Canadian reorganization was recognized in July
2009 as the “foreign main proceeding” in the Chapter 15 case
begun the month before in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Delaware.
Recognition effectively meant that U.S. creditors must
participate in the reorganization in Ontario under the
Companies’ Creditors Arrangement Act.  The U.S. case is In re Fraser Papers Inc., 09-12123, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington). The case in
Canada is In the Matter of the Plan of Compromise or Arrangement
of Fraser Papers Inc., CV-09-8241-00CL, Ontario Superior Court
of Justice (Toronto).  Accredited Home Plan Scheduled for Dec. 7 Approval  Accredited Home Lenders Holding Co. , a former home mortgage
originator and securitizer, arranged an Oct. 20 hearing for
approval of the disclosure statement explaining the liquidating
Chapter 11 plan filed Sept. 15. The company wants the
confirmation hearing for approval of the plan to take place Dec.
7.  A principal feature of the plan is a settlement where the
owner Lone Star Funds would pay $15.6 million cash. Lone Star is
giving up its own claims.  Unsecured creditors of the holding company are expected to
recover as much as 30 percent on more than $20 million in claims
while unsecured creditors of the operating companies, whose
claim total $106 million, might see 67 percent to 100 percent.  Accredited sold the mortgage servicing business after the
Chapter 11 filing in May 2009. Most of the mortgage loans were
sold later. The Chapter 11 petition for Accredited Home said
assets were less than $50 million while debt exceeded $100
million.  The case is In re Accredited Home Lenders Holding Co., 09-
11516, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Cynergy Data Proposes Liquidating Chapter 11 Plan  Former credit card processor Cynergy Data LLC filed a
liquidating Chapter 11 plan telling creditors that the remaining
assets are insufficient to pay anything aside from lawsuit
recoveries to anyone except holders of first-lien debt. A
hearing to approve the disclosure statement was set for Nov. 12.
The plan is based on a settlement with secured lenders.  Cynergy sold the business to private-equity investor
ComVest Group for $81 million, including $14 million in
subordinated debt payable by the purchaser. Long Island City,
New York-based Cynergy processed $10 billion in credit charges
annually for 80,000 merchants before the Chapter 11 filing in
September 2009. The petition listed assets of $110 million
against debt totaling $186 million. Listed debt included $39.8
million on a first-lien credit and $80.1 million on a junior
secured credit. There was also $9 million owing by an affiliate
that Cynergy guaranteed.  The case is In re CD Liquidation Co. Plus LLC, 09-13038,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Advance Sheets  Estate of Anna Nicole Smith Returning to Supreme Court  The lawsuit involving Playboy model  Anna Nicole Smith  will
return to the U.S. Supreme Court. The high court will use the
case to rule on whether a compulsory counterclaim is a so-called
core proceeding in a bankruptcy case. When Smith’s case was
previously in the Supreme Court, she won on a different issue.  Although Smith died in February 2007, her lawsuit continued
against the estate of Texas billionaire J. Howard Marshall.
After a loss in the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in San
Francisco, lawyers for Smith’s estate sought an appeal to the
Supreme Court. The Court decided yesterday to allow the appeal
and decide a question that divides the circuit courts of appeal.  The 9th Circuit in San Francisco ruled in March that Ms.
Smith’s compulsory counterclaim was not a so-called core
proceeding. As a result, the bankruptcy judge could not issue a
final order. Before the judgment of the bankruptcy judge passed
through the U.S. district court to become a final judgment, a
state court in Texas entered judgment against Smith, saying she
was entitled to nothing from her deceased husband’s estate.
Consequently, three judges from 9th Circuit in San Francisco
said she lost the race to judgment because the district court
was bound to follow the state court that was the first to issue
a final judgment.  To read details about the March decision, click here to see
the Advance Sheets item in the March 22 Bloomberg bankruptcy
report.  The Supreme Court will review the circuit court’s ruling
that a compulsory counterclaim is not a core proceeding unless
it is “so closely related to the proof of claim that the
resolution of the counterclaim is necessary to resolve the
allowance or disallowance of the claim itself.”  Lawyers for Ms. Smith’s estate cited three circuit courts
plus several lower courts that have held that there is always
core jurisdiction over compulsory counterclaims. The courts of
appeal ruling their way are from Boston, New York, and New
Orleans.  The case will be argued in the term of the Supreme Court
that begins on Oct. 4.  On other issues, the case was in the Supreme Court
previously, and Smith won. Her estate lost when the case was
remanded from the Supreme Court.  The case in the Supreme Court is  Stern v. Marshall, 10-179,
U.S. Supreme Court. The case in the circuit court was Marshall
v. Stern (In re Vickie Lynn Marshall), 02-56002, 9th U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals (San Francisco).  Unemployment Benefits Part of Disposable Income, Judge Rules  Unemployment benefits must be included in determining the
amount of an individual bankrupt’s “disposable income” in a
Chapter 13 case. The issue has divided bankruptcy courts and
commentators, according to the Sept. 24 opinion by U.S. District
Judge  Myron H. Thompson  from Montgomery, Alabama.  If the bankrupt’s unemployment benefits weren’t part of
disposable income, he would not have been required to pay
unsecured creditors anything under his Chapter 13 plan. The
bankruptcy judge, upheld by Thompson, ruled that unemployment
compensation must be included in calculating disposable income.
Consequently, he was required to pay unsecured creditors more
than $5,000 under his Chapter 13 plan.  The Bankruptcy Code says that “benefits received under the
Social Security Act” are not included in disposable income. The
issue is complicated because contributions to states’
unemployment compensation funds go into a trust established
under the Social Security Act. In addition, states are
ineligible to receive federal funding for unemployment benefits
if they don’t comply with regulations under the Social Security
Act.  Thompson ruled against the bankrupts, saying “it cannot be
reasonably argued that the common understanding of the phrase
‘Social Security Benefits’ includes unemployment benefits.”  The case is Washington v. Reding, (In re Washington), 09-
579, U.S. District Court, Middle District Alabama (Montgomery.)  Shoving Match Results in Denial of Discharge of Debt  A state court judgment for assault and battery resulted
automatically in the loss of discharge of a debt in bankruptcy,
a U.S. district judge in Reno, Nevada, ruled on Sept. 20.  The case is cautionary tale about unintended consequences,
on both sides of a physical dispute.  A woman almost had an auto accident. The male driver of the
other auto got out of his car, spit on the woman, and hurled
expletives at her.  The woman called her husband, a former football player and
a martial arts enthusiast, according to the Sept. 20 opinion by
U.S. District Judge  Kent Dawson .  The husband quickly arrived on the scene. The husband was
taller, heavier and younger than the man who had cursed his
wife. An altercation resulted, in which the former football
player pushed the other driver, who hit his head and died two
days later of “blunt head trauma.”  The widow sued and won a state court jury verdict for
assault and battery. The former football player in the meantime
filed bankruptcy. The bankruptcy judge ruled that the debt was
not discharged.  Dawson relied on a doctrine known as collateral estoppel,
sometimes also known as issue preclusion. The doctrine prevents
relitigating an issue that was finally determined in a prior
suit.  The debt wasn’t discharged because assault and battery by
its nature is a willful and malicious injury, Dawson ruled. The
jury verdict in state court prevented the former football player
from arguing in bankruptcy that the injury wasn’t willful and
malicious.  Dawson said it didn’t matter that the football player
didn’t intend to cause serious injury. He cited principles
taught to first-year law students that a person is liable for
“all harm proximately caused by the individual’s intentionally
wrongful action.”  The case is Shaw v. Weiss (In re Shaw), 09-01999, U.S.
District Court, District of Nevada (Reno).  Gratuitous Family Transfer Brings Discharge Denial  Failing to disclose a transfer to a relative can lead
automatically to a denial of discharge in bankruptcy, the U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals in New Orleans ruled last week.  An individual who filed in Chapter 13 failed to list
several transfers she made to her husband in the year before
bankruptcy. In one, she transferred a truck to her husband for
$1, traded the truck in, and paid the remainder of the purchase
price for the new truck.  The 5th Circuit in New Orleans said there is a
“presumption of actual fraudulent intent” when someone
transfers property to a relative for no consideration. The
appeals court upheld the lower court in denying discharge on the
ground that the bankrupt made a transfer within one year of
bankruptcy with actual intent to hinder, delay or defraud
creditors.  The case is Herman v. Jackson (In re Herman), 09-41266, 5th
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (New Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Rochelle  in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 