-- RIM Considers Using Its Tablet Operating System in BlackBerrys
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2010-09-30T04:19:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/rim-considers-using-its-tablet-operating-system-in-blackberry-devices.html
(Corrects to say 10,000 programs in ninth paragraph.)  Research In Motion Ltd. , whose new
BlackBerry PlayBook tablet runs on software bought as part of a
$200 million acquisition in April, is considering using the same
operating system in BlackBerry smartphones.  “There’s no reason to rule it out,”  Alan Brenner , senior
vice president, BlackBerry Platform, said today in an interview.
He said RIM’s senior management has signaled that such a move
might make sense, though the company hasn’t announced plans.  Bringing the QNX software into RIM’s phones would mark a
shift away from the BlackBerry OS, the operating system RIM has
relied on for a decade that’s now losing ground to rivals such
as  Google Inc. ’s Android and  Apple Inc. ’s iPhone. Android phones,
attractive to consumers because of their wider range of games,
news and other downloadable software, are set to eclipse
BlackBerry’s market share by the end of 2010, Gartner Inc. says.  For its tablet, Waterloo, Ontario-based RIM opted for QNX
because even the latest version of BlackBerry OS included legacy
software that limits what devices can offer consumers, at least
one person familiar with RIM’s tablet plan said last month.  While QNX’s software is used to help control music and
media features in Porsche sports cars, it is also used in the
control systems for nuclear power plants and the U.S. Army’s
unmanned Crusher tank.  That will give it a higher level of reliability than rival
operating systems built for smartphones and adapted for tablet
devices, co-Chief Executive Officer  Jim Balsillie  said in an
interview. RIM bought QNX Software Systems from Harman
International Industries Inc. in April.  Attractive to Developers  An additional boon to QNX is that it may allow applications
built for Android, the world’s fastest-growing smartphone
platform, to be more easily ported to RIM devices, says  Mike Abramsky , an analyst at RBC Capital Markets. QNX and Android
share the programming standard, Posix.  “There’s certainly some merit to the ability for that
level of portability,”  Tyler Lessard , RIM’s vice president of
global alliances and developer relations, said in an interview.
“Are we lowering the bar for people to port existing products
from other operating systems like Android, iOS, and others and
Linux? Yes, absolutely. Is it great to be able to tap into that
existing developer experience? Absolutely.”  RIM’s App World features more than 10,000 programs,
trailing the more than 250,000 that can be downloaded from
Apple’s App Store and the more than 80,000 that Android offers
for handsets built on its free software by manufacturers
including Motorola Inc., HTC Corp. and  Samsung Electronics Co.   Web-Friendly Devices  RIM  rose  $1.45 to $48.36 at 4 p.m. New York time on the
Nasdaq Stock Market. The stock has lost 28 percent this year,
compared with a 36 percent gain for Apple.  RIM’s share of the global smartphone market slid to 18.2
percent in the second quarter from 19 percent a year earlier,
researcher IDC said. Apple’s share rose to 14.2 percent from 13
percent and Android surged to 17.2 percent from 1.8 percent.  “If I were in RIM’s shoes, I would be looking at how I
could attract the Android developers with QNX,” said Alec
Saunders, a former vice president of marketing at QNX and
Microsoft Corp. executive. He’s now CEO of Ottawa-based phone-
app developer Iotum.  Balsillie said the notion that smartphone or tablet success
should be defined only by the number of apps a company offers is
a “flawed construct.” He said many apps were built because
users couldn’t access the full website with their mobile device.  RIM this week unveiled WebWorks, a Web-based platform that
developers can use to build apps for RIM devices.  “Our developer strategy is called the Web,” Balsillie
said. “I’m not going to try to bring developers to mobility.
I’m going to try make the mobility Web-friendly -- 100
percent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hugo Miller  in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  