-- Yen's Impact on Business Sentiment May Spur Bank of Japan to Add Stimulus
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2010-09-30T05:24:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/rising-yen-growing-business-pessimism-may-force-more-central-bank-easing.html
Evidence in the Bank of Japan’s
Tankan survey that companies are growing  more pessimistic  will
probably prompt the bank to expand support as soon as next week
for businesses grappling with the yen’s advance.  The BOJ is expected to increase on Oct. 5 its 30-trillion
yen ($359 billion) credit program for lenders to encourage  bank
lending  and reduce demand for yen, 14 of 17 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News said. One economist forecasts the bank to cut
the  overnight loan rate  to zero from 0.1 percent and buy more
government bonds.  The credit facility has so far failed to arrest declines in
bank loans and  consumer prices  and enlarging it won’t increase
demand either, analysts say.  Nintendo Co. , the world’s biggest
maker of video-game machines, yesterday cut its profit forecast
by 55 percent after the yen’s 10 percent increase this year, and
the  Tankan  showed that large manufacturers expect pessimists
will outnumber optimists by year-end.  “The chance that the BOJ may increase its credit facility
next week is high after the Tankan,” said  Takahide Kiuchi ,
chief economist at Nomura Securities Co. in Tokyo. “But that
will only have a limited impact on the economy and the financial
markets.”  Yen Sales  The central bank may proceed with further loosening partly
because it’s under pressure from the government after the
Finance Ministry sold yen on Sept. 15, abandoning its policy
since 2004 of staying out of the currency market. On the same
day, BOJ Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  said the bank will pursue
“strong monetary easing.”  “For now, the BOJ will try to get through by boosting the
credit program,” said  Teizo Taya , a former BOJ board member and
now adviser of the Daiwa Research Institute in Tokyo. If the yen
remains strong until the Oct. 28 board meeting, the central bank
may be forced the bank to cut the benchmark rate to 0.05 percent
from 0.1 percent, he said.  The yen’s advance and government demands, accompanied by
diminishing policy stimulus and slowing exports, will likely
prompt the BOJ to loosen credit further, Chiwoong Lee, Japan
senior economist at Goldman Sachs, said in a report.  Large manufacturers’ sentiment index improved the least
since early 2009 in September, to a reading of 8, the Tankan
showed. Those companies expect the index to drop to minus 1 in
December, meaning most of them are pessimistic about the outlook.  Declining Output  The currency’s advance has weighed on an export-dependent
economy, which grew at less than half the pace in the April-June
period compared with the previous quarter. Reports today showed
 industrial production  unexpectedly declined for a third month
and gains in retail sales were smaller than economists forecast.  Large manufactures expect the dollar to average 89.66 yen
in the year to March 31, according to Tankan. The Japanese
currency was traded at 83.51 yen per dollar at 2:16 p.m.  Murata Manufacturing Co., an electronics components maker,
said it will cut most temporary jobs and move production abroad
because of the stronger yen. Nintendo slashed its annual net
profit forecast to 90 billion yen from 200 billion yen due to
the currency.  Political Calls  Politicians have already indicated the BOJ could do more,
with Economy Minister  Banri Kaieda  saying on Sept. 27 that
additional liquidity injections by the Bank of Japan may be
effective in influencing the yen. Vice Finance Minister  Mitsuru Sakurai  also said on the same day that increasing government
bond purchases is one policy option for the central bank.  The easing step that Japan’s central bank is most likely to
take, boosting a credit facility introduced in December, may not
weaken the yen or revive corporate activity. The currency has
climbed 1.2 percent since the program was bolstered by 10
trillion yen at an Aug. 30 emergency meeting.  Decreased Lending  Bank lending has dropped nine straight months, partly
because companies don’t have an appetite for funds, while
consumer prices have been declining for about a year a half,
highlighting the deflationary pressure on Japan.  “It’s meaningless to just beef up the credit facility
without other drastic policy steps,” said  Seiji Shiraishi ,
chief economist at HSBC Securities in Tokyo, who predicts a rate
cut and more bond buying next week.  On top of the central bank’s cash injections, strong
investor demand for bonds due to risk aversion is also pulling
down market interest rates, decreasing the incentive for lenders
to borrow funds from the BOJ at the 0.1 percent rate, analysts
said. Yields on  6-month  government treasuries have fallen to
0.11 percent and those on  one-year  treasuries have come down to
0.119 percent.  Japanese banks say they don’t see much need to use the
central bank’s facility because companies aren’t seeking loans.  Insufficient Demand  “There are some signs of a  capital spending  rebound among
large and small companies in the April through June period, but
this is managed by cash on hand and hasn’t resulted in borrowing
from banks,”  Masayuki Oku , chairman of both the Japan Bankers
Association and Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc., said at a
press conference on Sept. 21. “It’s still not enough to
generate demand for capital.  Large companies plan to boost capital spending by 2.4
percent in the year ending March 31, the Tankan report showed.
Economists forecast a 3 percent increase.  Should an economic slump require the BOJ to take further
action, the bank will probably consider buying more bonds by
abolishing its rule for such purchases, said  Ryutaro Kono , chief
economist at BNP Paribas in Tokyo.  Shirakawa defended on Sept. 26 the BOJ’s rule of keeping
bond purchases below the amount of bank notes in circulation,
saying that bond yields could rise if the BOJ printed money to
pay for government debt.  Fed Move  Pressure on the BOJ to loosen credit could also increase if
the U.S. Federal Reserve bolsters quantitative easing measures,
according to  Eiji Dohke .  Should the BOJ only expand its credit facility this time,
“the bank would be compelled to take one or two more monetary
policy easing actions this year” given that the Fed will ease
policy, said Dohke, chief Japanese government bond strategist at
Citi Group Global Markets Japan Inc. in Tokyo. A credit program
expansion would be “insufficient to stop politicians’ calls on
the central bank,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mayumi Otsuma  in Tokyo  at
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  