-- Romanian Central Bank Holds Benchmark Interest Rate Unchanged at 6.25%
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2010-09-29T09:57:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/romanian-central-bank-holds-benchmark-interest-rate-unchanged-at-6-25-.html
Romania’s central bank left its
 main interest rate  unchanged for a third straight meeting today
as inflation triggered by a value-added tax increase prevented
policy makers from acting to combat the lingering recession.  The  Banca Nationala a Romaniei  in Bucharest kept the
 monetary policy rate  at a record-low 6.25 percent, matching the
expectations of all nine economists surveyed by  Bloomberg .  The government , which secured a 20 billion euros ($27
billion) of loans from the International Monetary Fund and
European Union to stay afloat, raised the value-added tax by 5
points to 24 percent in July to cut the budget deficit and meet
bailout conditions. The tax increase pushed inflation to 7.6
percent in August, the fastest in two years.  “It’s hard to expect any change in the interest rate,”
 Miroslav Plojhar , an economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in
London, said before the rate announcement. “The economy is
still weak, calling for lower rates, but it is unlikely to
happen with inflation in the 7 to 8 percent range. I do not
foresee any change until the third quarter of next year.”  The east European country’s economy, mired in the worst
recession on record, will probably contract as much as 1.9
percent in 2010, as austerity measures damp consumer demand, the
IMF and government forecast. The economy will return to growth
in 2011, led by industry and exports, the IMF’s Romania mission
chief,  Jeffrey Franks , said Aug. 4.  Leu Steady  The leu was little changed following the interest rate
decision and traded 0.1 percent lower on the day at 4.2727 per
euro as of 12:33 p.m. in Bucharest. It has appreciated 3 percent
from a record low of 4.4012 reached in June.  The cost of protection against the non-payment on Romania’s
bonds for five years in the credit default swaps market dropped
to 360.215 basis points yesterday, the lowest in more than three
months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Romania’s contraction may be worse than forecast this year
as government spending cuts curb domestic demand, Central Bank
adviser  Lucian Croitoru  said Sept. 23. Romania may miss its IMF-
agreed budget deficit targets of 6.8 percent of gross domestic
product for 2010 and 4.4 percent in 2011 because of the
lingering recession, Croitoru said.  Central bank Governor  Mugur Isarescu  said July 8 he sees no
reason to adjust the benchmark rate as a result of the tax
increase, because the expected acceleration in inflation “isn’t
monetary.” Policy makers halted rate reductions on June 30
after cutting rates four times in a row to combat recession.  The central bank forecasts inflation will end the year at
7.8 percent, above its target of 3.5 percent plus or minus 1
percentage point, before slowing to 3.1 percent in 2011 as the
effect of the VAT increase dissipates, Isarescu said Aug. 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Irina Savu  in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez in Prague at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  