-- Growing Tropical Storm to Strike Florida Keys Today, Hurricane Center Says
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2010-09-29T12:24:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/tropical-storm-is-poised-to-strike-florida-keys-miami-head-for-carolinas.html
A tropical storm with heavy rains
and winds of at least 39 miles an hour is forecast to hit the
Florida Keys today before passing near the Miami area and over
the state’s southeast coast on a track toward the Carolinas.  The weather system, currently a depression with winds of 35
miles (56 kilometers) an hour, is expected to strengthen after
passing Cuba, the center said in a  statement  at 8 a.m. Miami
time. Once it reaches tropical storm status, it will be called
Nicole, the 14th named one of the Atlantic hurricane season.  The storm’s eye was over central Cuba, 150 miles south of
Marathon, Florida, moving north-northeast at 9 mph, the center
said. The center’s forecast map shows the system passing close
to Miami, Fort Lauderdale and West Palm Beach after buffeting
the Florida Keys before heading northward toward the Carolinas.  “The center of the depression will move over the Florida
straits later this morning and be near or over southeastern
Florida by this evening,” the center said. “Isolated tornadoes
are possible over southeastern Florida and the Florida Keys
today.”  Tropical storm warnings, indicating such conditions are
expected within 36 hours, were in place in the Cayman Islands,
Cuban provinces from Matanzas to Ciego de Avila, northwestern
Bahamas, the Florida Keys and the state’s Atlantic coast from
Sebastian Inlet to East Cape Sable and Florida Bay.  The depression was already bringing “heavy” rain to parts
of Florida, Cuba, the Bahamas and Jamaica, the center said. It
may produce as much as 10 inches (25 centimeters) of rain over
the Caymans, Jamaica and Cuba and up to 20 inches over parts of
Cuba and Jamaica, the center said. As much as 8 inches of rain
was forecast to soak southern Florida and the Keys.  After tracking Florida’s east coast, the Miami-based center
forecast the storm to pass over the Atlantic before hitting land
again tomorrow near the North Carolina-South Carolina border.  The center is also tracking a  tropical wave  over the
central Atlantic that it says has a 10 percent chance of
becoming a tropical cyclone within two days. A tropical cyclone
is a rotating storm ranging from a depression to a hurricane.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Morales  in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 