-- Tropical Storm Nicole to Bring Heavy Rain to New York and U.S. East Coast
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2010-09-29T18:47:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/tropical-system-is-forecast-to-bring-heavy-rain-to-new-york-east-coast.html
New York City and the rest of the
U.S. East Coast will get heavy rain today and tomorrow as
Tropical Storm Nicole moves up the seaboard.  Flood watches extend from South Carolina to New York and
Vermont in advance of Nicole, according to the National Weather
Service.  “Wind-wise, it is probably not a big deal,” said  Tom Kines , senior expert meteorologist for commercial forecaster
 AccuWeather Inc.  in State College, Pennsylvania. “The major
impact is going to be rain. Some places are going to get several
inches of rain and not just down in Florida but all the way up
the Eastern Seaboard.”  Nicole’s top winds were 40 miles (64 kilometers) per hour
and the storm was 80 miles (130 kilometers) northeast of Havana,
Cuba, according to a National Hurricane Center advisory at 2
p.m. East Coast time. Nicole is the 14th storm of the Atlantic
hurricane season, which runs from June 1 through Nov. 30.  The average season produces 11 storms, according to the
hurricane center.  Rain will start falling in New York late today and will
continue through tomorrow night, said Matthew Scalora, a weather
service meteorologist in  Upton, New York . The weather service
predicts showers and thunderstorms, mainly after 8 p.m.  ‘Torrential Rains’  As much as 4 inches of rain may fall in the New York
metropolitan area with isolated regions receiving more than
that, he said.  “Torrential rains could be falling from the Carolinas all
the way up to New York City,” said Meredith Croke, a
meteorologist for  AirDat LLC  in North Carolina, which installs
weather-gathering sensors on commercial aircraft. “A lot of the
rain is falling ahead of the storm as well.”  Washington and Baltimore were forecast to receive as much
as 4 inches of rain, as were New Jersey, eastern Pennsylvania
including Philadelphia, and Delaware, according to the weather
service. Some areas in Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Delaware may
get 7 inches, the weather service said.  In addition, the weather service has issued a high-wind
watch for eastern Long Island and southeastern Connecticut
starting early tomorrow. Wind gusts as intense as 60 mph may
occur through tomorrow night.  The wet weather should be gone by this weekend, Kines said,
as cooler, drier air floods over much of the Northeast.  “It will have a much different feel to it,” Kines said.  Rain to the Bahamas  The storm, which is now over Cuba, is expected to skirt
south of Florida and bring heavy rains to the Bahamas as it
passes between the islands and Miami, according to the hurricane
center’s official track.  It’s then forecast to cease being a tropical storm as it is
absorbed by a weather front already over the East Coast within
two days, adding its heavy rains to the weather pattern.  “There is a corridor of tropical moisture from the
Caribbean all the way up the Eastern Seaboard,” Kines said.  In addition to the U.S. flood advisories, tropical storm
warnings, indicating such conditions are expected within 36
hours, were in place in the Cayman Islands, Cuban provinces from
Matanzas to Ciego de Avila, and the northwestern and central
Bahamas.  Nicole is expected to leave as much as 10 inches of rain
over Cuba, Jamaica and the Cayman Islands. As much as 20 inches
is possible in isolated locations, according to the hurricane
center.  The center is also tracking a  tropical wave  over the
central Atlantic that it says has a 10 percent chance of
becoming a tropical cyclone within two days. A tropical cyclone
is a rotating storm ranging from a depression to a hurricane.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian K. Sullivan  in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Morales  in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  