-- Tropical Storm Nicole to Bring Heavy Rain to New York and U.S. East Coast
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2010-09-29T21:55:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/tropical-storm-nicole-forecast-to-bring-heavy-rain-to-new-york-east-coast.html
Tropical Storm Nicole dropped heavy
rains that cut roads, washed away bridges and homes and may have
killed at least one child as it moved through Jamaica, Cuba and
the Cayman Islands before dissipating over the Straits of
Florida today.  One child was reported swept away when a house succumbed to
flood waters, according to Jamaica’s  Office of Disaster
Preparedness and Emergency Management’s  website.  Cuba’s
meteorological institute  reported “intense and heavy rains”
were falling in its central provinces and warned of flooding in
low-lying areas from east of Havana to Guantanamo.  Nicole has since become untrackable, according to a
 National Hurricane Center  advisory at 5 p.m. East Coast time.  The disappearance of Nicole doesn’t mean that New York and
the rest of the U.S. East Coast will be spared heavy rains
starting overnight, said  Carl Erickson , senior meteorologist at
commercial forecaster  AccuWeather Inc.  in State College,
Pennsylvania.  “The weather forecast hasn’t changed much, you just can’t
attach a name to it,” Erickson said. “Regardless whether
Nicole existed or not, the situation was going to remain the
same, a tremendous amount of tropical moisture is coming up the
East Coast.”  Flood watches are now posted from South Carolina to New
Hampshire in advance of the storm, according to the  National
Weather Service .  New York Rain  As much as 6 inches (15 centimeters) of rain may fall in
New York’s five boroughs said Joe Pollina, a weather service
meteorologist in Upton, New York. Some areas may receive more.  Pollina said the heaviest rain will arrive in two waves,
the first will be tomorrow from 2 a.m. to 6 a.m., followed by a
second late tomorrow night.  “Torrential rains could be falling from the Carolinas all
the way up to New York City,” said Meredith Croke, a
meteorologist for  AirDat LLC  in North Carolina, which installs
weather-gathering sensors on commercial aircraft.  Washington and Baltimore were forecast to receive as much
as 4 inches of rain, as were New Jersey, eastern Pennsylvania
including Philadelphia, and Delaware, according to the weather
service. Some areas in Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Delaware may
get 7 inches, the weather service said.  In addition, the weather service has issued a high-wind
watch for eastern Long Island, parts of Connecticut, Rhode
Island and Massachusetts, as well as eastern Maine starting
tomorrow. Wind gusts as intense as 60 miles (96 kilometers) per
hour may occur through the day after tomorrow.  Weekend Weather  The wet weather should be gone by this weekend, Erickson
said.  Before it dissipated, Nicole was the 14th storm with winds
of at least 39 miles per hour of the 2010 Atlantic hurricane
season, which runs from June 1 to Nov. 30. The average season
produces 11 storms, according to the hurricane center.  The center is also tracking two  tropical waves  over the
central Atlantic that it says have a 10 percent chance each of
becoming tropical cyclones within two days. A tropical cyclone
is a rotating storm ranging from a depression to a hurricane.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian K. Sullivan  in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  