-- Rosengren Says Federal Reserve Should Respond Vigorously to Slow Recovery
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s
-- 2010-09-29T17:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/rosengren-says-federal-reserve-should-respond-vigorously-to-slow-recovery.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston
President  Eric Rosengren  said the central bank still has tools
to boost an “anemic” recovery and should consider further
action to cut unemployment and raise the inflation rate.  Policy makers must respond “vigorously, creatively,
thoughtfully and persistently, as long as we have options at our
disposal,” Rosengren said in the text of remarks to the
Forecasters Club of New York today. “And we do have options,
despite having pushed short-term  rates  to the zero lower
bound.”  Rosengren’s comments put him at odds with  Charles Plosser ,
head of the Philadelphia Fed, who said earlier today that he’s
against further monetary expansion because he sees “little
risk” of deflation. Central bankers said after a meeting on
Sept. 21 that too-low inflation and sluggish growth may warrant
an easing of monetary policy, including resuming large-scale
asset purchases.  While Rosengren stopped short of explicitly endorsing that
option, he said it would highlight the Fed’s determination to
reduce disinflationary pressures and stimulate the economy by
reducing long-term interest rates.  “Current economic conditions -- an  unemployment rate  near
10 percent, sluggish growth, and undesirably low inflation --
together constitute a serious economic problem,” said
Rosengren, 53, who is a voting member of the policy making
Federal Open Market Committee this year.  Fed officials said in their statement this month that
inflation is “somewhat below” levels consistent with their
congressional mandate for price stability.  Price Gauge  One gauge of inflation -- the personal consumption
expenditures index, minus food and energy -- was up 1.4 percent
in the 12 months to July and has been lower than 2 percent since
November 2008. That compares with a long-term inflation goal of
between 1.7 percent and 2 percent.  “One of the reasons we worry about a too-low rate of
inflation is that the closer to zero the inflation rate gets,
the greater the risk it could fall into a harmful deflation,”
Plosser said, referring to a sustained and broad-based decline
in prices that can harm the economy by reducing corporate
profits and increasing the value of debts.  Fed Bank of Minneapolis President  Narayana Kocherlakota 
said today that a second round of Treasury purchases would have
a “muted effect” on the economy because financial markets are
functioning better now than in early 2009.  Yesterday, Fed Bank of Atlanta President   Dennis Lockhart 
said it’s “not a foregone conclusion that more accommodation is
required” because it’s not clear “what exactly the problem
is.”  Rosengren said that policy makers must weigh the costs and
benefits of additional asset purchases.  Credit Allocation  “There are concerns about things like creating distortions
in credit allocation, complicating exit strategies when they
become appropriate, and exposing the Federal Reserve to
interest-rate risk,” Rosengren said. “Those issues are
important to recognize, and to work to mitigate. At the same
time, we cannot take lightly how far off the mark unemployment
and inflation seem to be.”  By buying long-term Treasuries, the central bank would
likely lower interest rates on government bonds and other long-
term securities, Rosengren said. The Fed would also expand its
 balance sheet  through securities purchases, which would increase
the amount of reserves available to banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Caroline Salas  in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  