-- Rosneft Seeks Gas Sales to China With Gazprom After Oil Deal
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2010-09-29T10:01:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/rosneft-may-join-gazprom-in-gas-sales-to-china-khudainatov-says.html
OAO Rosneft , Russia’s largest oil
producer, wants to work with  OAO Gazprom  to export natural gas
to China, and boost supplies to the world’s largest energy
consumer.  Rosneft Chief Executive Officer Eduard Khudainatov plans to
meet with his Gazprom counterpart Alexei Miller to discuss sales
when the executives return to Moscow from a visit with President
Dmitry Medvedev to China this week. Rosneft starts delivering
Russia’s first commercial oil by pipeline to China next year.  “Rosneft too has big gas resources, so of course we will
consider such cooperation,” Khudainatov told reporters in the
Kamchatka region of eastern Russia. “Rosneft would like to
jointly enter the market, but Gazprom is the operator.”  Gazprom, the world’s biggest gas producer, has a monopoly
on exports under Russian law. The Moscow-based company plans to
sign a contract with China National Petroleum Corp. in mid-2011
and start its first supplies to the Asian country in 2015.
Pricing issues have held up the contract for several years.  Rosneft’s Yurubcheno-Tokhomskoye oil and gas condensate
field in eastern Siberia could be used for gas supplies to
China, Khudainatov said. Two exploration wells drilled at the
deposit in June showed oil flows at the field, Rosneft said last
month. The state-controlled oil producer has said it may delay
the start of commercial production at the deposit, scheduled for
2013, until it gains clarity on taxes.  Rosneft sold 550,000 metric tons of oil to China this year
to fill a spur from the East Siberian-Pacific Ocean pipeline and
will ship 15 million tons a year under contract next year, about
half the amount China is seeking, Khudainatov said.  Even that amount is less than China’s oil demand, he said.
“They don’t want 30 million tons, they need 250 million tons.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net 
To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net  