-- Rousseff `Sphinx' Tops Brazil Poll on Lula Legacy of Economy, Market Gains
-- B y   I u r i   D a n t a s
-- 2010-09-29T17:26:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/rousseff-sphinx-tops-brazil-poll-on-lula-legacy-of-economy-market-gains.html
At a rally in Campinas this month,
Brazilian President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  spoke for more
than half an hour as he praised his chosen successor,  Dilma Rousseff . She spoke to the crowd of potential voters for just 14
minutes.  Five days before Rousseff may finally step out from her
mentor’s shadow by winning Brazil’s presidential election, her
campaign style has given scant indication of how she will guide
Latin America’s biggest economy.  “Dilma is a sphinx,” said  Edmar Bacha , a former president
of the country’s development bank and one of the architects of
the so-called Real Plan in 1994 that is credited with taming
hyperinflation of 5,000 percent. “We don’t know who she is or
what she represents, and we are electing her president.”  The Worker’s Party candidate has said little about how she
will tackle challenges that include setting the stage for faster
growth and keeping pace with Russia, India and China, Brazil’s
peers in the BRIC group of big emerging markets. Government
spending is increasing at twice the rate of growth, and the
country has the world’s second-highest real interest rates.  “She has proven to be someone with an aggressive
personality,” said  Arminio Fraga , the chairman of Sao Paulo-
based BM&F Bovespa stock exchange and a former central bank
president. “That could be channeled to good things. But we just
don’t know.”  Novice Candidate  The 62-year-old Rousseff, who has never before run for
political office, has mostly talked during the campaign about
continuing Lula’s cash transfers and social welfare programs.
Those measures have lifted 21 million Brazilians out of poverty
and helped Lula win a 78 percent approval rating in polls.  “What Lula started will continue with Dilma,” the
candidate’s election song says. Voting is compulsory in Brazil.  Unlike in 2002, when Lula wrote a “Letter to the Brazilian
People” promising to meet fiscal targets and limit spending,
Rousseff hasn’t presented a formal platform this year.  In a meeting with investors in New York in May, Rousseff
said that Brazil could “gradually reduce” its inflation target
of 4.5 percent by 2014. In August, she said the recovery of the
world economy wouldn’t allow such a reduction. She has also
vowed to cut tax rates and increase the number of taxpayers.  The lack of specifics doesn’t seem to worry investors. The
extra yield they demand to own Brazilian dollar bonds instead of
U.S. Treasuries  narrowed  to 211 basis points, or 2.1 percentage
points on Sept. 28, from a nine-month high of 251 on June 8,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ Index. That compared
with the average 287 basis points for developing nations.  Brazilian Debt  One reason for investors’ comfort is the presence in
Rousseff’s camp of economic adviser  Antonio Palocci , said
 Mohamed A. El-Erian , chief executive officer of Pacific
Investment Management Co. in Newport Beach, California, the
world’s biggest bond fund.  Pimco has made Brazilian debt its favorite among emerging
markets partly because of its confidence in the 49-year-old
Palocci, who four years ago resigned as Brazil’s finance
minister, El-Erian said in a telephone interview last month.  Rousseff is favored to run ahead of opposition rival  Jose Serra  in the Oct. 3 elections. Her lead over her two main
opponents shrank to a one-month low in opinion polls this week
as voters digested revelations in the press involving
allegations by businessmen of influence peddling by family
members of Erenice Guerra, who succeeded Rousseff as Lula’s
cabinet chief. Serra has also accused the Worker’s Party of
leaking the income-tax records of his allies and relatives.
Rousseff has denied any wrongdoing, as has Guerra.  Lead in Polls  A poll by Belo Horizonte-based  Sensus  taken Sept. 26-28 and
released today showed her with 47.5 percent support, compared
with 25.6 percent for Serra. The survey had a margin of error of
2.2 percentage points. In the previous Sensus poll, taken Sept.
10-12, Rousseff had 50.5 percent. Should no candidate win more
than 50 percent of valid votes in the first round, triggering a
runoff in four weeks, Rousseff would win with 53.9 percent to
Serra’s 34.5 percent, according to the poll.  “I represent the project of transformation of Brazil in
these last eight years, a process that in a real and concrete
way changed Brazil, that made Brazil grow again,” Rousseff said
in a  TV Record  debate on Sept. 28. “We gave self-esteem back to
Brazilians.”  The daughter of a Bulgarian immigrant lawyer and a
Brazilian teacher, Rousseff attended a private school and fell
in love with opera before entering university. She dropped out
to combat the military dictatorship that took power in 1964,
joining two Marxist underground groups that carried out armed
bank robberies and kidnappings of politicians.  Planned Kidnapping  One of the organizations, named VAR Palmares, planned but
did not carry out the kidnapping of Finance Minister  Delfim Netto  in an effort to exchange him for political prisoners,
according to journalist Robert Espinosa, former military leader
of the group. Rousseff disdained radical clichés back then,
Espinosa said.  “She argued that Brazil was already a fully capitalist
country, and that anti-imperialist rhetoric was outdated,”
Espinosa said.  Rousseff, who declined to be interviewed for this story,
has denied that she used weapons herself.  Arrested and Tortured  Rousseff said she was “barbarically tortured” after being
arrested in 1970, according to testimony she gave to congress in
2008. Upon her release from jail 28 months later, she studied
economics and settled in the state of Rio Grande do Sul with her
second husband, Carlos Araujo, an underground leader. They
separated in 1994. Their only child, Paula, was born in 1976.  As the first woman to become a state energy secretary in
Brazil, Rousseff won attention when Rio Grande do Sul was the
only state in Brazil that didn’t have to ration electricity
during a nationwide energy crisis in 2001.  Lula named Rousseff energy and mining minister and
chairwoman of Rio de Janeiro-based state-controlled oil producer
 Petroleo Brasileiro SA  in 2003. She oversaw a redesign of
regulations governing electrical power and gas exploration,
boosting the role of the state in both.  Lula picked Rousseff to be his cabinet chief in March 2005.
In a bid to groom his successor, the former union leader handed
her control of the government’s Growth Acceleration Program, a
1.6 trillion reais ($933.1 billion) infrastructure drive, and a
program to build 1 million homes for the poor.  Treated for Cancer  In April 2009 Rousseff announced that she was being treated
for lymphoma. Her doctors pronounced her in “excellent health”
in September 2009. She left Lula’s Cabinet in March to meet a
legal deadline to run for office.  The incoming administration needs to manage 55.1 billion
reais in infrastructure projects for the 2014 World Cup and the
2016 Olympics in Rio de Janeiro, and must implement measures to
reduce tax rates and overhaul oil industry regulations, said
 Gustavo Franco , a former central bank president.  Economists see growth slowing to 4.5 percent next year,
from 7.53 percent this year, and inflation accelerating to 5.15
percent in the 12 months ahead, according to a central bank
survey taken Sept. 24.  Rising government spending is another cause for concern,
Franco said. Federal expenditures rose 18.2 percent in July from
the same month last year, while  gross domestic product  expanded
by 8.8 percent in the second quarter, according to data from the
Treasury and the national statistics agency.  “We’re on an unsustainable pace of fiscal spending
growth,” Franco said in an interview in the Rio de Janeiro
office of money manager Rio Bravo Investimentos, where he is
chief strategist. “If Dilma misbehaves, the market will exact a
price.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Iuri Dantas in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  