-- Rubber Gains First Time in Four Days, Pares Loss, on China Demand Outlook
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2010-09-29T05:32:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/rubber-may-decrease-as-strengthening-japanese-currency-reduces-appeal.html
Rubber advanced for the first time
in four days, paring earlier losses, as data showed China’s
manufacturing quickened in September, increasing speculation
demand for the commodity used in tires will expand.  Manufacturing accelerated in China for a second straight
month, adding to signs the fastest-growing major economy is
stabilizing after policy makers curbed lending in an effort to
avert asset bubbles.  “The manufacturing data showed purchasing power remains
strong in China,” said Sureerat Kunthongjun, an analyst at
Bangkok-based AGROW Enterprise Ltd. “This will help boost
demand for rubber.”  The March-delivery contract gained as much as 0.7 percent
to 310.6 yen per kilogram ($3,709 a metric ton) before trading
at 309.5 yen on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange at 1:51 p.m. The
contract, which earlier fell to 307.1 yen, touched a five-month
high of 312.8 yen on Sept. 27.  A China purchasing managers’ index  released today by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics rose to 52.9, the highest
level in five months, from 51.9 in August. The data are
seasonally adjusted and readings above 50 indicate an expansion.  China’s car-sales growth accelerated for the first time in
five months in August, according to data from the China
Association of Automobile Manufacturers. Auto sales in China are
set to outpace the U.S. for a second year, spurring carmakers
including PSA Peugeot Citroen,  Toyota Motor Corp.  and Nissan
Motor Co. to boost capacity or plan new models.  Upside Limited  Still, the market upside is limited as the strengthening
Japanese currency reduces appetite for yen-based contracts.
“Yen appreciation continues, pressuring the rubber market,”
Varut Rungkhum, an analyst at Bangkok-based commodity broker
Agro Wealth Ltd., said today.  The yen traded at 83.73 against the dollar after reaching
83.69 in New York yesterday, the strongest since Sept. 15, when
it touched a 15-year low of 82.88.  Confidence among large Japanese manufacturers rose the
least since early 2009 in September, and companies forecast that
pessimists will outnumber optimists by year-end, as a rising yen
threatens the nation’s recovery.  The commodity market will be volatile as the Japanese
government may act to weaken the currency, said Gu Jiong, an
analyst at commodity broker Yutaka Shoji Co.  “The BOJ is likely to do something such as injecting more
capital,” said  Junichi Makino , a senior economist at Daiwa
Institute of Research Ltd. in Tokyo. “That won’t reverse the
yen’s uptrend, but should stem excessive gains.”  China’s financial markets will be closed from Oct. 1 to Oct.
7 National Day holidays.  “Some investors may close their positions ahead of long
Chinese holidays,” Varut said by phone from Bangkok.  The March-delivery contract on the Shanghai Futures
Exchange climbed 0.6 percent to 26,770 yuan ($4,003) a ton.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Supunnabul Suwannakij  in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  