-- Rubber Gains First Time in Four Days, Pares Loss, on China Demand Outlook
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j   a n d   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 2010-09-29T07:40:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/rubber-gains-first-time-in-four-days-pares-loss-on-china-demand-outlook.html
Rubber advanced for the first time
in four days as data showed China’s manufacturing quickened in
September, increasing speculation demand for the commodity used
in tires will expand.  The most-active contract climbed as much as 0.7 percent to
310.6 yen per kilogram ($3,717 a metric ton) before settling at
309.8 yen on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange. It approached a five-
month high of 312.8 yen reached Sept. 27.  Manufacturing accelerated in China for a second straight
month, adding to signs the fastest-growing major economy is
stabilizing after policy makers curbed lending in an effort to
avert asset bubbles. The nation is the biggest rubber user.  “The manufacturing data showed purchasing power remains
strong in China,” said Sureerat Kunthongjun, an analyst at
Bangkok-based AGROW Enterprise Ltd. “This will help boost
demand for rubber.”  A China purchasing managers’ index  released today by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics rose to 52.9, the highest in
five months, from 51.9 in August. The data are seasonally
adjusted and readings above 50 indicate an expansion.  China’s car-sales growth accelerated for the first time in
five months in August, according to the China Association of
Automobile Manufacturers. Auto sales in China are set to outpace
the U.S. for a second year, spurring carmakers including  Toyota
Motor Corp.  to boost capacity or plan new models.  Still, the market upside is limited as the strengthening
Japanese currency cools appetite for yen-denominated contracts,
said Varut Rungkhum, an analyst at broker Agro Wealth Ltd.  The yen traded at 83.51 per dollar at 3:51 p.m. in Tokyo
after climbing to 83.50, the highest level since Sept. 15, when
it touched a 15-year peak of 82.88.  Sentiment Index  Japan’s Tankan  index  of sentiment rose the least since
early 2009 in September and companies forecast that pessimists
will outnumber optimists by year-end as a rising yen threatens
the nation’s recovery.  The commodity market will be volatile as the Japanese
government may act to weaken the currency, said Gu Jiong, an
analyst at commodity broker Yutaka Shoji Co.  “The BOJ is likely to do something such as injecting more
capital,” said  Junichi Makino , a senior economist at Daiwa
Institute of Research Ltd. in Tokyo. “That won’t reverse the
yen’s uptrend, but should stem excessive gains.”  Cash price in Thailand dropped 0.2 percent to 109.15 baht
($3.58) per kilogram as investors are concerned over
strengthening yen and local currency, Rubber Research Institute
of Thailand said on its website today.  Limited supply following persistent rainfalls in southern
Thailand remains price supportive, it said.  China’s financial markets will be closed from Oct. 1 to Oct.
7 National Day holidays.  “Some investors may close their positions ahead of long
Chinese holidays,” Varut said by phone from Bangkok.  The March-delivery contract on the Shanghai Futures
Exchange climbed 0.8 percent to 26,910 yuan ($4,025) a ton.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Supunnabul Suwannakij  in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net 
 Aya Takada  in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  