-- Ruble Reversing Biggest Drop Since '09 as Oil Spurs Bonds: Russia Credit
-- B y   E m m a   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2010-09-30T10:25:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/ruble-reversing-biggest-drop-since-09-as-oil-spurs-bonds-russia-credit.html
The  ruble  is poised to rebound from
its biggest slide since Russia’s credit-crisis devaluation as
higher oil prices lure investors to the largest energy exporter
and prompt corporate bond sales from  OAO Gazprom  and VTB Group.  The currency may climb 2.2 percent by the end of next month
against the basket of dollars and euros used by the central bank
to manage exchange-rate swings, according to the median estimate
of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The ruble weakened 2.8
percent in September, the most in any month since January 2009,
when tumbling oil prices and the global recession drove it down
14 percent amid  Bank Rossii ’s policy of “gradual devaluation.”  Oil, which with natural gas makes up about 25 percent of
Russia’s economic output, rose 8 percent this month to $77.71 a
barrel in New York today, helping the  economy  recover from last
year’s record 7.9 percent contraction. Gas export monopoly
Gazprom and  VTB , Russia’s second-largest bank, are among
companies planning to sell at least $2 billion of international
bonds in the fourth quarter, adding to record issuance this
year.  “There are no fundamental reasons for the ruble’s recent
weakness,”  Maxim Oreshkin , chief strategist for Russia and the
Commonwealth of Independent States at Credit Agricole SA, said
in a telephone interview from Moscow yesterday. Oreshkin said
the ruble will strengthen 2.8 percent versus the basket by the
end of October. “With the oil price close to $80 and Gazprom
and other corporates indicating they will borrow before year-end
we could see capital inflows this year rather than outflows.”  Risk Reversal  Options traders are cutting bets on ruble depreciation,
with the currency’s one-month risk-reversal rate against the
dollar -- the premium of put options over calls -- dropping to
1.5 percent, the lowest since March 2009, from as high as 2.7
percent at the start of September. Non-deliverable forwards,
which provide a guide to expectations of currency movements and
allow companies to hedge against fluctuations, yesterday showed
the ruble at 30.6153 per dollar in a month, the strongest since
Aug. 17.  The ruble dropped 0.7 percent to 35.63 against the basket
by 1:59 p.m. in Moscow today, as it slid 0.6 percent to 30.60
against the dollar and declined 0.9 percent to 41.80 per euro.
The currency has fallen 1 percent against the dollar and gained
3.9 percent versus the euro so far this year. For this quarter,
the exchange rate is 2.1 percent stronger versus the dollar, 8.9
percent weaker against the euro. Against the basket, the ruble
has dropped 3.3 percent.  Russia’s economy may grow 4.4 percent in 2010, Prime
Minister  Vladimir Putin  said in Sochi on Sept. 17, more than the
official forecast of 4 percent. Energy accounts for about 75
percent of Russian exports to the Baltics and countries outside
the former Soviet Union, government data show.  Trade Balance  Exports will keep Russia’s current account in surplus,
buoying the ruble,  Ivan Tchakarov , chief economist for Russia
and the Commonwealth of Independent States at BofA Merrill Lynch
Global Research, said in an interview in Moscow yesterday.  “Even if the trade balance decreases it will still be
positive which means the ruble should be supported in the medium
term,” said Tchakarov, who forecasts Russia’s currency will
strengthen 8.6 percent against the basket by the end of the
year. “We’re cautiously constructive on the ruble.”  Rising imports reduced the current-account surplus to a
monthly average of $2.8 billion between June and August from $11
billion in the first three months of the year, Bank Rossii
Chairman  Sergey Ignatiev  told lawmakers in Russia’s State Duma
Sept. 24.  ‘Worsening Fundamentals’  The surplus will be $3 billion in the fourth quarter, as
imports jump an annual 28 percent,  Natalia Orlova , chief
economist at Alfa Bank, Russia’s largest private lender, wrote
in a research note Sept. 24. The decline may cause the ruble to
slump 2.3 percent against the basket by the end of 2010 as
imports jump and declining capital inflows choke economic growth
and investment activity, Orlova wrote.  “Due to worsening fundamentals related to the ongoing
deterioration of Russia’s external balance we assume the ruble
will not recover before year-end,” Orlova wrote.  Investors will continue to sell the ruble on rallies,
Markku Anttila, a currency dealer who trades rubles at Sampo
Bank Plc, a unit of Denmark’s largest lender Danske Bank AS,
said by phone from Helsinki yesterday.  “I suspect there’s more weakness to come before the end of
the year, I see the current trend accelerating,” said Anttila,
who predicts the ruble will drop to 36 against the basket by
year-end. “The willingness to put on more risk is getting
smaller. The ruble’s had a good run.”  Lukoil, Luzhkov  The ruble slumped to a 7 1/2 month low versus the euro on
Sept. 22 and was the weakest since July 1 against the dollar on
Sept. 16 amid speculation companies were converting their
holdings of the currency to repay foreign debt and fund
acquisitions, Credit Agricole’s Oreshkin said.  OAO Lukoil , Russia’s biggest non-state oil producer, bought
5 percent of its U.S.-listed shares back from ConocoPhillips
before their option to buy expired Sept. 26. The Moscow-based
company, which bought the stock with assistance from a group of
investors led by UniCredit Bank AG, may have driven the ruble
lower by collecting dollars to finance the purchase, according
to UBS AG and Alfa Bank.  Currency inflows may pick up in the fourth quarter as
companies convert the proceeds from foreign bond sales into
rubles for payments and investments in Russia, Oreshkin said.  Eurobond Pipeline  Gazprom, the nation’s biggest natural-gas exporter, plans
to sell its first international bonds in more than a year by the
end of 2010, Yana Kolosovskaya, the Moscow-based company’s head
of loans and guarantees said in a Sept. 21 interview in London.  VTB, also based in Moscow, will borrow about $1.5 billion
on international and domestic markets by the end of the year to
meet its $5 billion borrowing target for 2010, Deputy Chairman
 Herbert Moos  said in a phone interview yesterday.  OAO TMK , the
nation’s biggest producer of steel pipes, may sell $1 billion of
Eurobonds and ruble debt from next year, Moscow-based Senior
Vice President  Vladimir Shmatovich  said on a Sept. 13 conference
call.  Russian banks sold a record $12.1 billion of international
debt so far this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Foreign currency-denominated debt will jump to 20 percent of
total corporate borrowing within three to five years, from the
current 15 percent,  Ekaterina Trofimova , a banking analyst at
Standard & Poor’s in Paris, told reporters at a conference in
Moscow Sept. 21.  Yield Spread  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps rose 0.5 basis point to
162 today, according to data provider CMA. The contracts pay the
buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities or
the cash equivalent should a government or company fail to
adhere to its debt agreements.  Credit-default swaps for Russia, rated Baa1 by Moody’s
Investors Service, its third-lowest investment grade rating,
cost 1 basis point more than contracts for Turkey, which is
rated four levels lower at Ba2. Russia swaps  cost  as much as 40
basis points less on April 20.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries dropped 7 basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 231 today, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s EMBI+ indexes. The difference compares with 152 for debt
of similarly rated Mexico and 207 for Brazil, which is rated two
steps lower at Baa3 by Moody’s.  The  yield   spread  on Russian bonds is 45 basis points below
the average for emerging markets, down from a 15-month high of
105 in February, according to JPMorgan indexes.  Yearend Forecasts  Russia’s currency may rise 4 percent to 34 against the
basket by the end of this year, according to the median of 13
analyst estimates in the Bloomberg survey. The ruble will
advance 5.6 percent to 33.50 by the end of March next year, the
median of nine estimates shows. The median estimate for the end
of October was 34.60, based on responses received between Sept.
20 and 24.  The ruble’s basket rate is calculated by multiplying the
dollar to ruble rate by 0.55, the euro-ruble rate by 0.45, then
adding them together. Bank Rossii buys and sells foreign
currency to keep the ruble within a so-called floating corridor
of 33.40 to 36.40 against the basket, First Deputy Chairman
 Alexei Ulyukayev  said in June.  “As soon as demand for foreign currency subsides the ruble
should strengthen again,”  Peter Westin , chief strategist in
Moscow at Aton Llc in Moscow, wrote in a note to clients
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma O’Brien  in Moscow at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  