-- Rupee Rising Most in 15 Months Damped by Current-Account Gap: India Credit
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2010-09-30T12:53:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/rupee-rising-most-in-15-months-damped-by-current-account-gap-india-credit.html
The biggest rupee rally in 15
months may be coming to an end as a widening current-account
deficit erodes the benefits of surging inflows of overseas
investment.  The  shortfall  in the broadest measure of trade and
investment flows tripled in the second quarter from a year ago
to a record $13.7 billion, a central bank report showed today.
The currency, which has climbed 4.7 percent this month, will
drop 1.2 percent by Dec. 31, a survey shows.  A wider deficit increases pressure on Reserve Bank of India
Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  to protect exporters and slow rupee
gains by buying dollars and delaying interest-rate increases,
according to Barclays Plc, the world’s third-biggest currency
trader. Kokusai Asset Management Co. said any weakness may be
temporary. The rupee survey signaled the currency may resume its
rally next year, gaining 5.3 percent in 2011.  “The RBI has a tough task striking a balance between
inflows, exchange rate and controlling inflation,” said Rahul
Bajoria, a Singapore-based economist at Barclays. “The deficit
will increase the headwinds and lead to a weakening of the rupee
in the short term.”  Relative Strength  The rupee touched 44.835 a dollar this week, its strongest
level since May 4, after gaining 6 percent from an eight-month
low reached on May 25.  Trading patterns signal a possible reversal, after the
rupee’s so-called relative strength index rose to 77.6, from
37.3 at the end of last month, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Readings above 70 indicate a currency may have risen
too fast.  The last time the reading was above 70 was in April, just
before the rupee weakened to 47.7450 in May from 44.1875 on
April 10. The currency may end the year at 45.5 and strengthen
to 43.23 by December, 2011, according to the survey.  India’s 10-year  bonds  held at their highest level in six
weeks yesterday on speculation slowing inflation will prompt the
central bank to pause interest-rate increases.  Inflation  as
measured by wholesale prices held above 10 percent for four
months since March before slowing to 8.5 percent in August,
according to commerce ministry data.  Narrowing Spread  The yield on the 7.8 percent note due May 2020 was 7.85
percent as of the 5 p.m. close in Mumbai yesterday, according to
the central bank’s trading system. The price was at 99.68 per
100 rupee face amount. The was no trading today for half-yearly
closing of bank accounts.  Yields on India’s 10-year notes are poised to fall this
month relative to U.S. Treasuries for the first time since May
in a sign that investors have greater confidence in India. The
 difference  in yields was 5.34 percentage points yesterday,
compared with 5.48 percentage points at the end of August. The
measure has ranged from 3.74 percentage points at the start of
the year to 5.56 percentage points on Aug. 26.  India yields compare with 12.06 percent in Brazil, 7.62
percent in Russia and 3.35 percent in China, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Similar debt offer 2.46 percent in the
U.S., 0.92 percent in Japan, 2.22 percent in Germany and 2.91
percent in the U.K.  Slowing inflation and rising foreign demand for India’s
stocks will bolster the rupee, said Takahide Irimura, the head
of emerging-market research in Tokyo at Kokusai Asset Management.  Stock, Bond Purchases  “The rupee may continue to outperform the other regional
currencies in the short term,” Irimura said in a telephone
interview from Tokyo on Sept. 28.  Overseas investors bought $18.2 billion more Indian shares
than they sold this year, while debt purchases reached a record
471.3 billion rupees ($10.5 billion), according to data provided
by the  Securities & Exchange Board of India . Net foreign direct
investment, according to government estimates, is likely to jump
52 percent to $30 billion in the year to March.  Higher sovereign ratings have helped fuel the rally in the
rupee, making it the best performer this month after the Korean
won among the top 10 most-traded currencies in the region
outside Japan. The won has gained 5.1 percent.  Moody’s Investors Service increased India’s local-currency
credit rating one level to Ba1, the highest non-investment grade,
in July as the government vowed to make the sharpest cuts in its
 budget deficit  in 19 years. That was the first upgrade since
1998 and places India on par with Greece, Egypt and Morocco.  Current-Account Deficit  The current-account deficit in the fiscal year ending March
31 may widen to a record $57 billion, or 3.6 percent of gross
domestic product, according to Barclays’ estimates. The gap was
$38.4 billion the previous year, or 2.9 percent of GDP.  The International Monetary Fund estimates Brazil will have
a deficit of 2.2 percent of GDP in 2010, while China and Russia
may show a surplus of 6.2 percent and 5.1 percent.  The central bank’s Subbarao said Sept. 20 that it’s a
“dilemma” to manage capital flows and the nation needs “just
enough to meet the current-account deficit.” He said in a
speech in the southern city of Hyderabad that it isn’t possible
to simultaneously have free movement of capital, a fixed
exchange rate and an independent monetary policy.  The Reserve Bank intervenes in the market “only to smooth
volatility, which is harmful to trade and investment,” Subbarao
said in a speech in Washington on April 26. The central bank
“doesn’t comment on the day-to-day movement of the rupee,”
said  Alpana Killawala , a spokeswoman for the central bank.  ‘Temporary Problem’  The surge in the current-account gap is a “temporary
problem,” and will moderate to 2 percent of GDP during the next
12 to 18 months, said Chetan Ahya, an economist at Morgan
Stanley in Singapore. Morgan Stanley expects the rupee will
weaken to 47 to the dollar by the end of March.  Imports rose faster than exports as India’s 8.8 percent
 growth  last quarter, the best among major economies after China,
stoked demand for oil and other goods.  A sputtering recovery in developed nations prompted  Infosys
Technologies Ltd ., the nation’s second-largest software exporter,
to cut prices to retain customers as it reported a drop in
profit in the three months ended June 30.  Overseas purchases of merchandise goods climbed an average
44 percent this year from the same period in 2009, while  sales 
of the nation’s goods abroad grew about 20 percent, according to
data provided by the trade ministry. The monthly  trade deficit 
averaged $10.6 billion this year, a record.  “Despite the fact that capital inflows have risen on the
back of strong growth and higher domestic borrowing costs, we
view sustained currency appreciation as unlikely,” said
Barclays’ Bajoria, who expects the rupee will depreciate to 47.5
per dollar by March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kartik Goyal  in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net . 