-- RWE, Scottish & Southern Lack Cash to Meet Climate Targets, Citigroup Says
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2010-09-29T12:58:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/rwe-scottish-southern-lack-cash-to-meet-climate-targets-citigroup-says.html
European utilities including
 Scottish & Southern Energy Plc  and RWE AG will struggle to
invest the 938 billion euros ($1.27 trillion) needed to meet
climate change targets and replace aging power plants and
networks by 2020, according to Citigroup Inc.  “Governments in Europe appear to believe that the utility
sector can more than double its historic capital expenditure and
sustain that for ten years,” Citigroup analysts led by  Peter Atherton  and  Manuel Palomo  said today in a note to investors.
“Many governments are ignoring the facts on the ground and
taking no account of their own actions.”  Utilities in Germany, France, Spain, the U.K. and Italy
will face a financing shortage of about 277 billion euros as
they seek to replace nuclear reactors, build new gas-fired power
plants and invest in offshore wind projects, the analysts said.
Total spending of 653 billion euros will “stretch the sector
balance sheets to the limits,” they said.  The 27-nation European Union aims to more than double the
share of energy from renewable sources, including wind and solar
power, to an average 20 percent by 2020. Many of the continent’s
power stations and electricity networks were built in the 1960s
and 1970s and need to be replaced, the analysts said. The
average age of a combined-cycle gas turbine power plant is 33
years in the U.K. and 30 years in Germany, they said.  Investors ‘Shiver’  Raising funds is likely to become more difficult after
policy-makers in Spain debated cutting renewable power subsidies
and German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government imposed a
nuclear tax starting next year. This raises concerns among
investors about the long-term consistency of government policy,
the analysts said. The nuclear tax is especially detrimental as
it singles out the industry as a source of cash, they said.  “Actions by the Spanish and German governments have sent a
shiver through investors,” the analysts said. “It is likely to
have raised the cost of capital for future investment, and not
just in the countries concerned.”  The Stoxx Europe 600 Utilities Index  has declined 11
percent this year.  While energy efficiency measures and high power prices are
likely to keep demand growth moderate, electricity needs may
rise with the roll-out of electric vehicles, the analysts said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kari Lundgren  in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 