-- Amgen Drug May Block Some Breast Cancer, Studies Hint
-- B y   R o b   W a t e r s
-- 2010-09-29T17:38:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/sanofi-s-suspended-hepatitis-vaccine-protects-infants-5-years-in-study.html
Amgen Inc.’s  denosumab, approved to
treat osteoporosis and being tested to reduce the spread of
cancer to bones, may have potential to treat a type of breast
tumor, early research suggests.  Mice with breast cancer fueled by the hormone  progesterone 
had their tumors shrink when a protein called RANK ligand was
blocked, according to a study by Amgen researchers published in
the journal  Nature . RANK ligand plays a key role in bone
regeneration and is the target of denosumab, a drug that Amgen
has made the focus of the biggest development program in its
history.  The findings suggest the RANK ligand may be a driving force
in breast cancers linked to progesterone and that stopping it,
as denosumab does in osteoporosis, may treat the malignancy. The
study, along with a similar paper published in Nature, suggests
for the first time that denosumab may help a condition that has
nothing to do with bone.  “Blocking this protein might have a beneficial effect on
breast cancer itself,” said Glenn Begley, vice president for
oncology research at Thousand Oaks, California-based Amgen, in a
Sept. 24 telephone interview.  Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg  predict  denosumab, approved
as Prolia for osteoporosis in the U.S. and Europe this year,
will grow to have sales of $2.8 billion in 2014. Those estimates
are based on the drug’s use solely in treating or preventing
bone conditions.  Common Tumor  Amgen declined $1.25, or 2.2 percent, to $54.75 at 1:32
p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading. The
 shares  have lost 7.4 percent in the 12 months before today.  Breast cancer is the most common tumor in women with about
207,000 new U.S. cases and 40,000 deaths in 2010, according to
the  National Cancer Institute .  Progesterone is produced naturally during pregnancy and
women also get it in synthetic form from birth control pills or
hormone replacement therapy. About three-quarters of breast
cancers are fueled at least partly by progesterone, said  Julie Gralow , a breast cancer specialist at the University of
Washington School of Medicine in Seattle.  Amgen, the world’s largest biotechnology company, has
tested denosumab in about 21,000 patients with bone-related
conditions.  The company began a  study  in May to see if denosumab can
prevent cancer from spreading to the bones of women with breast
tumors. Some of the women in the trial will probably have
progesterone-driven cancers and, based on the findings in the
Nature paper, the company will look to see if denosumab has an
impact on their cancer, Begley said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Waters  in San Francisco at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 