-- Santana Rocks O2, Threesome, Gherkin’s Homeless: London Weekend
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2010-09-29T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/santana-storms-o2-threesome-gherkin-s-homeless-sushi-london-s-weekend.html
After decades of turning out Latin-
rock hits such as “Black Magic Woman,”  Carlos Santana  is
trying something different at the O2 on Friday night.  London gets the first concert taste of his new CD “Guitar
Heaven,” out this week, which reinterprets such songs as
“Riders on the Storm” (the Doors), “While My Guitar Gently
Weeps” (the Beatles) and “Little Wing” ( Jimi Hendrix ). The
63-year-old will also perform the usual jazz-and-salsa hits from
the many albums he’s cut since 1969.  The O2, Peninsula Square, SE10 0DX. Information:
 http://www.theo2.co.uk ,  http://www.santana.com/tour/default.aspx   Saturday  Sergei Diaghilev was a nightmare manager: He bossed
staffers around, worked them to death, and took a chosen one to
bed with him as often as possible.  Diaghilev was, of course, also an avant-garde ballet
impresario. The show at the  Victoria & Albert  Museum starts with
his top hat and opera glasses, and ends with his final hotel
bill -- itemizing everything down to the mineral water -- from
Venice, where he died.  In between are pointes and threadbare tutus worn by his
ballerinas, a giant front cloth that Picasso designed for one
ballet, and costumes that  Coco Chanel  made for it.  A special room remembers his dancer-lover Vaslav Nijinsky,
who was fired for marrying on the sly, and ended up in mental
wards. His feathered turban and wedding photo can be admired.  Information:  http://www.vam.ac.uk  or +44-20-7942-2000.  Saturday Night  Gilda loves two men: Leo and Otto. They love her back --
and, just to keep things simple, they love each other, too.  That threesome is the focus of  Noel Coward ’s 1933 “Design
for Living,” now in a stylish, well-acted staging at the  Old
Vic .  Set in three cities -- Paris, London, New York -- and swish
Art Deco interiors, the play shows blond, bored-looking Gilda
swapping countries and men with each new act. Exchanges with
third parties, such as the dowdy housekeeper Miss Hodge (Maggie
McCarthy), boost the amusement value.  The Old Vic is at The Cut, London SE1 8NB. Information:
 http://www.oldvictheatre.com  or +44-844-871-7628.  Sunday  Sometime in the future, when the global economy will have
collapsed for good, the Gherkin -- that pointy monument in
London’s financial district -- will shelter homeless refugees.  That’s one of the 14 apocalyptic climate-change scenarios
that illustrators Robert Graves and Didier Madoc-Jones conjure
up via photomontages at the  Museum of London . Other scary
prospects: rice paddies in Parliament Square, and a nuclear
power station at Kew Gardens.  Information:  http://www.museumoflondon.org.uk  or call
+44-20-7001-9844. The exhibition is part of “ Story of London ,”
a festival focusing on the capital. Information:
 http://www.london.gov.uk/story .  Restaurant Picks  Japanese cuisine is increasingly popular in London. The
problem is finding a place that serves heavenly food without
charging stellar amounts.  Pham Sushi ( http://www.phamsushi.co.uk/ ) is a neighborhood
eatery with surprisingly good sushi.  Edokko (Tel. +44-20-7242-3490) doesn’t even have a website,
and is a favorite with chefs such as Jun Tanaka.  If you have the budget, Dinings ( http://www.dinings.co.uk ),
hidden in a basement and hard to find, is favored by
aficionados.  ( Farah Nayeri  writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Farah Nayeri  in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 