-- Fraud-Hit Satyam's Loss Narrows to $28 Million After Mahindra Acquisition
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2010-09-29T14:43:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/satyam-computer-services-narrows-full-year-loss-to-1-25-billion-rupees.html
Satyam Computer Services Ltd. , the
software exporter embroiled in India’s biggest corporate fraud
probe, reported a narrowing of full-year loss in its first
annual earnings announcement in two years.  The  net loss  totaled 1.25 billion rupees ($28 million) in
the 12 months ended March 31, from 81.8 billion rupees a year
earlier, Hyderabad-based Satyam said today.  The disclosures may ease concern among shareholders of Tech
Mahindra Ltd., whose chairman  Anand Mahindra  said last year he
was taking a “very calculated risk” in buying Satyam. The
publication of financial reports may also help the company to
bid for new orders and is a crucial step toward a possible
merger with Tech Mahindra, Satyam’s largest  shareholder ,
according to Mumbai-based analyst  Pralay Kumar Das .  “Not having financials bars IT vendors from getting into
bidding rooms for a lot of deals,” said  Das , an analyst at
Elara Securities India Pvt. “Now that they have these
financials in place, they’ll be able to get more of those
orders.”  Satyam, which delayed reporting its annual accounts after
former Chairman  Ramalinga Raju  disclosed in January 2009 that he
overstated the company’s assets by $1 billion, announced its
audited earnings for the fiscal years ended March 2009 and 2010.  The software-services provider’s  shares  rose 0.2 percent to
close at 98.95 rupees in Mumbai trading before the results were
announced. The stock declined 43 percent last year after a 62
percent slump in 2008.  ‘Deleted or Destroyed’  Satyam detailed its results in a 25 page statement that
included several observations from the auditors and notes from
the management on financial irregularities it found during the
course of its investigations of the accounts dating back to
April 1, 2002. The overall impact of the fictitious entries and
unrecorded transactions amounted to 67.6 billion rupees,
according to the statement.  “There could be other instances of possible diversion that
remain undetected,” according to the notes. “Certain documents
and information were either unavailable or couldn’t be located.
There was evidence suggesting that information might have been
deleted, or destroyed during the period leading” to Raju’s
disclosure, Satyam said.  Investors in the U.S., where Satyam sold American
depositary receipts in 2001, filed at least a dozen class-action
lawsuits that have been consolidated before U.S. District Judge
 Barbara Jones  in New York. On Nov. 9, Satyam and former auditors
Price Waterhouse and Lovelock & Lewes said the U.S. lawsuits
should be dismissed because the litigation belongs in India.  ‘Pauper Status’  The software exporter saw an “exodus” of clients after
the disclosure of the fraud and until its takeover by Tech
Mahindra, Chairman  Vineet Nayyar  said at an earnings briefing
today. “We have been able to successfully dispose off most of
the baggage from the past, except the class-action suits. We are
like a patient convalescing and raring to go, and it will take
about two years for us to fully recover.”  Judge Jones in January granted Raju and his brother  Rama Raju , Satyam’s former chief executive officer, pauper status in
U.S. litigation, meaning the two men won’t have to pay filing
fees and other court costs tied to the litigation because of
their financial condition.  India’s Central Bureau of Investigation, which has charged
Raju and eight others including his brother Rama and former
finance head  Srinivas Vadlamani  of faking invoices and
falsifying accounts, in January filed fresh charges against Raju
and five others. Raju, who was in custody in India since January
last year, won bail last month from a court in Hyderabad.  Sales Slump  Sales at Satyam, which maintains computer systems and
provides back-office support for Cisco Systems Inc.,
GlaxoSmithKline Plc and other clients, declined 38 percent to
54.8 billion rupees in the year through March 2010, from 88.1
billion rupees in the previous 12 months.  The latest results were audited by Deloitte LLP,  Sridhar Maturi , a spokesman at Satyam said.  Satyam said Sept. 24 its ADRs will be delisted from the New
York Stock Exchange, effective “on or about” Oct. 14 and may
trade in the over-the-counter market.  The company may become U.S. GAAP compliant in about six to
eight months, Nayyar said. “Given the trauma we’ve been
through, we’ve made a remarkable recovery.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  