-- Deep-Water Drill Ban Public Policy, U.S. Tells Judge
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2010-09-29T22:37:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/second-deep-water-drill-ban-goes-before-judge-who-halted-first-suspension.html
U.S. regulators told a federal
court that a revised deep-water oil drilling ban was a matter of
public policy and should be upheld, while another court declared
the original moratorium “legally and practically dead.”  “This is a policy call,” Guillermo Montero, a lawyer for
the Interior Department, told U.S. District Judge  Martin Feldman 
at a hearing in New Orleans today to consider a challenge to the
revised rules.  “A policy call which I’m not enslaved to accept unless I
find it was reasonably discerned,” the judge responded.  President  Barack Obama’s  administration in May imposed the
first six-month ban on drilling in waters deeper than 500 feet
in response to BP Plc’s Gulf of Mexico oil spill, the biggest
offshore spill in U.S. history. Interior Secretary  Kenneth Salazar  issued new rules July 12 after Feldman found the first
ban overly broad and threw it out.  The oil industry, joined by governors in Louisiana and
Texas, has been fighting the bans in Feldman’s court and before
the U.S. Court of Appeals in New Orleans.  The second moratorium was challenged in a suit filed by
 Ensco Offshore Co. , which claims Salazar overstepped his
authority, setting new rules in an attempt to circumvent
Feldman’s June 22 order.  ‘Mirror Image’  The latest ban is an illegal “mirror image” that should
be overturned, because Salazar imposed it without considering
new evidence to reach a new decision, as required by law, Ensco
said in court papers. The second ban was “plainly engineered to
evade the consequences” of Feldman’s order rejecting the
original one, Ensco said.  Feldman said today he found it “staggering” that the day
after the appeals court “temporarily upheld” his first ruling,
regulators circulated an internal memo describing the need for a
moratorium as “fact.” Three days later, Salazar implemented
the second ban, which Feldman said led him to question how much
reconsideration of new evidence the secretary undertook before
issuing the same policy.  Feldman told lawyers today he would “try to get a decision
out as quickly as is reasonable.”  Feldman overturned the first ban in a lawsuit brought by
 Hornbeck Offshore Services Inc.  and joined by Louisiana Governor
 Bobby Jindal  and scores of business and industry groups.  Appeal Dismissed  Salazar imposed the second ban July 12 and appealed
Feldman’s order rejecting the first. The appellate court today
dismissed the government’s appeal of Feldman’s order stopping
enforcement of the May moratorium, finding the second ban made
the first irrelevant.  The second ban remains in effect.  Feldman said today he was concerned regulators had unfairly
“tainted” the entire deep-water drilling industry “because of
perhaps improper conduct by a company or companies involved in
the Deepwater Horizon explosion.”  The risks were systemic because “not a single operator”
had the ability to adequately contain and clean up a massive oil
spill in deep water, requiring the government to keep rigs idle
until the industry rectified the problem, Montero, the
government lawyer, replied.  “It wasn’t just BP trying to cap that well,” he told
Feldman. “As of July 12, there was no capability.”  Government Objections  Feldman proceeded with today’s hearing over the objections
of the government, which urged him to delay the session until
regulators announced new findings that could lead to an early
end to the ban.  Ensco’s lawyer, Adam Feinberg, said the industry has
concerns that regulators have been trying to evade judicial
review by withdrawing and reinstituting policies under
consideration by Feldman and the appellate court.  “Here we are challenging the second moratorium, and we’re
four months in, and they may be trying to do it again,”
Feinberg said of the government’s request for a delay.  The new rules announced July 12 addressed Feldman’s
concerns about the original ban, government lawyers said in
court papers. The regulations suspend deep-water drilling until
Nov. 30 at the latest. The government may lift the ban earlier
if officials determine such operations may safely resume.  The original moratorium “has been revoked and superseded
by a new directive” based on additional information, separate
analysis and a separate administrative record, lawyers for the
U.S. said in court papers. “The decision challenged by the
plaintiffs’ complaint no longer exists.”  The case is Ensco Offshore Co. v. Salazar, 2:10-cv-01941,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New
Orleans). The appeal is Hornbeck Offshore Services v. Salazar,
10-30585, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit (New
Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 