-- Serbia Wants World Bank-Backed Loan Over Eurobond, Toncic Says
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2010-09-29T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/serbia-plans-to-borrow-435-million-in-world-bank-backed-loan-toncic-says.html
  Serbia  will borrow as much as 320
million euros ($435 million) from commercial banks with a World
Bank guarantee rather than sell a Eurobond, the head of the
country’s Debt Management Agency in Belgrade said.  The Balkan nation is seeking “a 10-year credit” with
conditions similar to that of a “five-year bullet paying
bond,” Branislav Toncic told Bloomberg in a telephone interview
yesterday. Investors will be offered “2 percentage points above
a fixed rate,” he said. Borrowing directly from banks would
cost Serbia between three and four percent while the Eurobond
cost would range between six percent and seven percent, he said.  “Considering that neither the Eurobond nor the credit
could be completed by the end of the year, we decided for a
syndicated loan of around 300 million euros or 320 million euros
because it is financially a lot more favorable,” he said.  Serbia , rated BB- by both Standard & Poor’s and Fitch, is
relying on a $3.9 billion loan program with the  International
Monetary Fund  to offset pressures on its balance of payments.
The program runs through April 2011 and Serbia has so far drawn
1.46 billion euros.  The government will call a public tender by mid-November
for banks to join in the credit with the aim of raising the
funds in the first quarter of 2011, Toncic said. He spoke less
than a month after outlining plans to raise the funds by the end
of 2010 selling Eurobonds backed by a World Bank guarantee.  ‘Exploring the Market’  The lower cost reflects the  World Bank  guarantee, which
covers the principal sum, not interest, he said.  Both foreign banks and creditors in Serbia will be invited
to bid, according to Toncic. “The World Bank is still exploring
the market and it favors a bank syndicate over a single bank
creditor,” he said.  By getting the World Bank guarantee, Serbia will give up a
previously planned $100 million loan from the lender to finance
the budget. The government hopes that the borrowing of 250
million euros from foreign banks established in Serbia, which
would come on top of the syndicated loan, will ease pressure on
the government to replace the money it would have received from
the Washington-based institution, he said.  Serbia can afford to wait for the money from the syndicated
loan because the government has kept spending in line with plans
while revenue has been more than expected, Toncic said. “It’s
not about liquidity, it’s about closing the budget on December
31,” he said.  The country ran a  72 billion-dinar budget deficit  in the
first eight seven months of the year out of a planned shortfall
of 102.25 billion dinars for the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  