-- Shahzad Said on Video He Wanted to Join `Jihad' Brothers After Sept. 11
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2010-09-29T20:27:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/shahzad-said-on-video-he-wanted-to-join-jihad-brothers-after-sept-11.html
Faisal Shahzad , who pleaded guilty
to driving a bomb-laden car into New York’s Times Square, made
use of “real-time video” on the Internet of Times Square “to
maximize the deadly effect of his bomb,” prosecutors said.  Shahzad also told investigators that if he hadn’t been
arrested within days of the foiled May 1 attack, “he planned to
detonate a second bomb in New York City two weeks later,” the
government said today in court papers.  Shahzad, a naturalized U.S. citizen, deserves a life prison
term because his crime was premeditated and because he exploited
the benefits of his citizenship to join a foreign terrorist
organization intent on attacking the U.S., prosecutors said. He
is scheduled to be sentenced Oct. 5 by U.S. District Judge
 Miriam Goldman Cedarbaum .  Shahzad, 31, admitted driving a Nissan Pathfinder into the
crowded Manhattan intersection laden with improvised bombs. He
was arrested May 3 at New York’s John F. Kennedy International
Airport after boarding a flight to Dubai.  Shahzad pleaded guilty on June 21 to all 10 terrorism-
related charges, including attempted use of a weapon of mass
destruction, brought in an indictment on June 17 filed by
prosecutors in the office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara .  Explosion Video  The U.S. today submitted to Cedarbaum a video of a June 29
“controlled detonation” conducted by the Joint Terrorism Task
Force that simulated Shahzad’s bomb.  The video shows a vehicle like the one Shahzad left
abandoned, parked in a grassy field and surrounded by at least
four others. After the explosion, the Pathfinder appears to be
destroyed and the other vehicles are damaged.  The detonation “demonstrated that those effects would have
been devastating to the surrounding area,” prosecutors said.  Shahzad used software programs installed on his laptop
computer while in Pakistan to exchange information about the
bomb. He used real-time video feeds available on the Internet to
check crowd sizes so he could cause the most destruction and
greatest number of casualties.  “These websites enabled Shahzad to determine which areas
of Times Square drew the largest crowds and the times when those
areas would be most crowded,” the government said.  Pedestrians Vulnerable  “He wanted to select the busiest time for pedestrian
traffic in Times Square because pedestrians walking on the
streets would be easier to kill and to injure than people
driving in cars,” the U.S. said.  Julia Gatto, a lawyer for Shahzad, couldn’t immediately be
reached for comment.  After becoming a U.S. citizen, Shahzad traveled to the
Waziristan region of Pakistan in December 2009 where he stayed
with members of the Taliban called the “Tehrik-e-Taliban,”
prosecutors said in court papers. He stayed with the group for
40 days until January 2010 receiving bomb-making instructions,
the U.S. said.  While in Pakistan, Shahzad made a 40-minute videotape while
he was with the group in 2009 in which he said that he wanted
“to join my brothers in jihad ever since 9/11 happened.”  “I also want to inform my brothers Muslim,” Shahzad said,
“that it is not difficult at all to wage attack on the West,
and specifically in the U.S., and completely defeat them.”  “Nothing is impossible if you just keep in mind that Allah
is with you,” he said.  The case is U.S. v. Shahzad, 10-00928, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 