-- Shell Targets Expansion in Gulf Even After BP Spill
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2010-09-29T16:10:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/shell-targets-expansion-in-gulf-of-mexico-even-after-bp-spill.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc , Europe’s
biggest oil company, plans to expand projects in the deepwater
Gulf of Mexico even as BP Plc, once its main European rival,
experiences setbacks after the worst oil spill in U.S. history.  Shell has the potential to add output of more than 250,000
barrels of oil equivalent a day in the Gulf by 2015 and beyond,
according to  Marvin Odum , director of exploration and production
at Shell in the Americas.  “In the Gulf of Mexico we’ve increased our efforts in the
deepwater in recent years with encouraging results,” Odum said
in a  video interview  posted on the Internet. “The longer-term
outlook for deepwater remains positive, despite the current
drilling moratorium.”  The U.S. government has introduced a deepwater drilling ban
through Nov. 30 after an explosion at the BP-operated Macondo
well killed 11 drillers on April 20 and triggered the spill. The
Hague-based Shell added more than 500 million barrels of oil
equivalent resources in the Gulf in 2009 and 2010.  Shell and Nexen Inc. announced the Appomattox discovery in
the deepwater eastern part of the Gulf in March. The partners
have partly appraised the field and estimate that it holds more
than 250 million barrels of resources, Nexen said yesterday in a
statement.  Growth Phase  “Shell is coming into a growth phase with the potential
for substantial cash generation,” said  Richard Griffith , a
London-based analyst at Evolution Securities Ltd. “BP, while
recovering from Macondo, may also be selling more assets in
anticipation of having to spend more to rebuild its portfolio.”  Shell has six recent exploration discoveries in the Gulf
that may allow it to “extend production to the 250,000 barrels
a day level for quite some time to come,”  Simon Henry , the
chief financial officer at Shell, said in a separate  video
interview . “Our portfolio here is entering what we believe is a
new and really exciting growth phase.”  The Anglo-Dutch company is evaluating plans for the
development of the Cardamom deep discoveries, which may hold 100
million barrels of oil equivalent resources and pump 20,000
barrels a day in the Gulf, Odum said.  Shell pumped about 250,000 barrels a day in deepwater in
the Gulf last year, it said in a  presentation  on its website.
The company hasn’t provided details of Gulf production targets
and estimates for field output decline because of depletion.  The moratorium has affected Shell’s five floating rigs and
four platforms and curbed output by about 8,000 barrels a day
through the year, it said in the presentation. Shell yesterday
approved Mars B platform development, which will pump about
100,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day after 2014, it said.  BP  also holds a stake in Mars B in the Gulf, which accounts
for more than 10 percent of the London-based company’s output. A
probe into the oil spill by U.S. Attorney General  Eric Holder 
may lead to the suspension of BP’s operating licenses, while
U.S. lawmakers have threatened to bar the company from new
offshore leases because of its safety record.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eduard Gismatullin  in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  