-- Sierra Leone's Economy to Get Boost as UN Lifts Sanctions, Ambassador Says
-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 2010-09-29T17:02:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/sierra-leone-s-economy-to-get-boost-as-un-lifts-sanctions-ambassador-says.html
Sierra Leone’s economy, which is
forecast to expand by 4.5 percent this year, will receive a
“substantial” boost by the lifting today of  United Nations 
sanctions, the West African country’s ambassador said.  The UN  Security Council  voted 15 to 0 to end a 13-year-old
embargo on arms trade to Sierra Leone. The sanctions were
imposed in the midst of an 11-year civil war between Sierra
Leone’s government and Revolutionary United Front guerrillas
that left 50,000 dead and displaced more than 2 million before
both sides agreed to a cease-fire in 2000.  The sanctions, though not explicitly targeting trade,
“stigmatized”  Sierra Leone  as a nation where investment might
be considered risky, Shekou Touray, Sierra Leone’s ambassador to
the UN, said in an interview.  “Because of the sanctions there was a lot of hesitation by
investors, such as airlines,” Touray said. “Even delivery of
goods was affected, because you have an increase in freight
because of the insecurity, the issue of insurance. Now the
investment and trade will flow.”  The  International Monetary Fund  forecast in September that
Sierra Leone’s economy would expand 4.5 percent this year, up
from 3.2 percent in 2009, led by a rebound in diamond production
and increased agricultural output.  Sierra Leone mines the world’s second-highest quality
diamonds after Namibia and also has one of the world’s largest
deposits of rutile, a titanium ore used in paint. Most of its
foreign exchange is earned from diamond exports.  The UN sanctions “no longer reflect the reality on the
ground,” U.K. Ambassador Mark Lyall Grant said. “The situation
in Sierra Leone continues to improve and the lifting of
sanctions is another indicator of that positive trend.”  The Security Council resolution said control by Sierra
Leone’s government has been “fully re-established over all its
territory” and that “all non-governmental forces have been
disarmed and demobilized.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Varner  at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  