-- Singh's `India Story' Advances Tested by Mosque Court Ruling
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2010-09-30T07:23:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/singh-s-india-story-advances-tested-by-court-ruling-over-razed-mosque.html
India’s government urged residents
in the world’s biggest democracy not to tarnish the nation’s
image as an emerging economy when a court rules today on a
religious dispute that triggered riots two decades ago.  “India has moved on. Young people have moved on,” Home
Minister  Palaniappan Chidambaram  said in New Delhi yesterday.
“The India story is a much bigger story and I think young
people recognize that the big India story should not be in any
way derailed by a dispute over a place.”  Judges at the Allahabad High Court are scheduled to rule at
3:30 p.m. local time on ownership of land in the northern town
of Ayodhya where Hindu mobs razed a  16th-century mosque  in 1992.  The response to the verdict will test India’s advance since
the Babri Masjid’s destruction sparked riots that killed 2,000
people and marked the emergence of the Hindu-nationalist
 Bharatiya Janata Party  as India’s second nationwide party.
India’s economy has expanded nearly six-fold since then and
overseas investors have poured $106 billion into bonds and
stocks, driving the  Sensitive Index  to near a record high.  “It’s going to be tough” maintaining calm, said
 Viswanathan Vasudevan , who helps manage $350 million in assets,
including Indian stocks, at  Aquarius Investment Advisors Pte  in
Singapore. If there is trouble, “there may be some reaction
from investors,” he said. “There are politicians waiting to
condone any decision that is given” by the court.  Offices Close  India has ratcheted up security to prevent a recurrence of
the 1992 clashes between Muslims and the majority Hindus, banned
rallies and blocked bulk mobile-phone text messages. Extra
police patrolled streets, while the air force and paramilitary
troops are on standby as 60 years of legal battles over control
of the land enter the penultimate stage.  Infosys Technologies Ltd ., India’s second-largest software-
exporter, has closed its Bangalore headquarters “as a
precautionary measure,” the company said in an e-mail. Its
other offices are “functioning with enhanced security in
place,” the company said. Microsoft Corp. has asked its Indian
employees to go home by 2 p.m. local time before the verdict
comes out, said spokeswoman Debjani Mukherji.  While the Congress party-led government of Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh  took out advertisements in newspapers to appeal
for calm, analysts said the issue that helped propel the BJP to
power in 1998 may no longer have the power to spark widespread
unrest. “The dispute has lost its intensity,” said Javeed Alam,
chairman of the  Indian Council of Social Science Research , in
New Delhi. “People want this dispute to be buried.”  1950 Claims  The three-judge Lucknow bench of Uttar Pradesh’s high court
may award control of the site to either of the two faiths.
Claims date back to 1950, shortly after idols of Hindu deities
appeared inside the mosque.  The Supreme Court Sept. 28 allowed the verdict to be
delivered after last week delaying it and urging all sides to
seek reconciliation. Today’s decision can be appealed in the top
court.  Congress President  Sonia Gandhi  called on Indians to accept
the verdict peacefully. “Unity in diversity and a composite
culture is our most precious heritage and legacy,” Gandhi said
on the eve of the judgment.  “The way the country handles this -- the aftermath -- will
have a profound impact on the evolution of our country,” Singh
told a meeting of editors at this official residence this month,
the  Hindu newspaper  reported.  Record Funds  India’s gross domestic product has surged since 1991, when
Singh, then finance minister, introduced free-market measures
that cut red tape, removed state-enforced capacity caps on steel
and cement makers, and allowed overseas companies including Ford
Motor Co. to set up operations.  The country’s stocks attracted a record $18.7 billion from
foreign funds this year, driving a rally that made its equities
index the best performer among the world’s 10 biggest markets.
The inflows pushed the rupee to its strongest level in more than
four months.  The BJP used its push for a temple to be built in Ayodhya
to gain support among Hindus. It surged from two members of
parliament in 1984 to 120 at elections in 1991 and leading a
coalition government seven years later. The party still wants to
build a temple to Ram in Ayodhya.  “An average Indian aged 20 to 30 was a small kid when the
incident happened,” said New Delhi-based  Jagannadham Thunuguntla , chief strategist at SMC Global Ltd., which manages
$100 million in assets. “It’s yesterday’s phenomenon.”  Archaeology, Law  The court had to weigh archaeological evidence and past
claims over the site. Zafaryab Jilani, who has been contesting
ownership of land since 1986 for the Sunni Waqf Board, a Muslim
body involved in the dispute, said the court is expected to
decide whether the Babri Masjid was built after the demolishing
of a Hindu temple and whether the existence of a mosque from
1528 gave Muslims ownership.  Hindus account for 80.5 percent of the country’s 1.2
billion population while Muslims make up 13.4 percent.  An independent Indian commission in November blamed top BJP
leaders for igniting sectarian clashes in 1992. The commission
named former BJP Prime Minister  Atal Bihari Vajpayee ,  Lal Krishna Advani  and other party chiefs among 68 people who played
key roles in sparking the crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bibhudatta Pradhan  in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  