-- Singapore Bourse Clears About 90% of Global Iron Ore Swap Trades, Ang Says
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2010-09-29T08:42:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/singapore-bourse-clears-about-90-of-global-iron-ore-swap-trade.html
Singapore Exchange Ltd., operator
of the city’s securities and derivatives markets, represents as
much as 90 percent of global over-the-counter clearing of iron-
ore swaps, said the chief executive of its commodity unit.  More than 200 counterparties, which are producers, users
and traders of the steel-making ingredient, are using the
service, Chief Executive Officer  Jeremy Ang  of the Singapore
Commodity Exchange said in an interview today.  China, the world’s largest buyer of iron ore, increased
demand to a record last year to produce steel for homes, cars
and appliances in the fastest-growing major economy. Vale SA,
the top exporter, said today growth may resume at the end of the
year after the Chinese government tackled a steel capacity glut.  “We’ve seen good growth in iron ore,” said Ang, who has
led the commodity exchange for more than two years.  The bourse became the first exchange to clear iron ore
swaps in April 2009, followed by LCH Clearnet Ltd., Europe’s
largest clearing house, and Intercontinental Exchange Inc.
Growth encouraged banks including Credit Suisse AG and Deutsche
Bank AG to offer products related to the raw material.  The Singapore Mercantile Exchange, vying to increase its
share in regional commodity derivatives trade, said today it
will introduce iron-ore futures, which are not yet available on
bourses. The plan is subject to regulatory approval, it said.  Futures, Swaps  “We’re not sure whether the time is right for iron-ore
futures,” said Ang. The market is too fragmented, he said.  Chief Executive Officer  Thomas McMahon  of the Singapore
Mercantile Exchange said his background is to develop a futures
market first, then a swaps market.  “Futures come first, as they allow open-market access,
giving the cleanliness and clarity on pricing,” he said in an
interview today. As the market advances to “a mature clearing
space,” the swaps market develops, he said.  The Singapore Exchange has a partnership with the London
Metal Exchange, the world’s largest marketplace for copper and
aluminum futures. Trade of cash-settled futures benchmarked
against LME contracts will start in the first quarter of next
year, Ang said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chanyaporn Chanjaroen / in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  