-- Southwest's AirTran Acquisition May Bring Higher Ticket Prices
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2010-09-29T20:12:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/southwest-s-airtran-purchase-may-bring-higher-fares-as-rival-is-eliminated.html
Southwest Airlines Co.’s planned
purchase of  AirTran Holdings Inc.  may lead to higher ticket
prices as a low-fare competitor is eliminated and the merged
carrier works to make up for higher costs.  “Over time, fares will go up,” said  Vaughn Cordle, 
managing partner of AirlineForecasts LLC in Clifton, Virginia.
That will follow the initial celebration of the merger in which
they offer “everyone a discount to fly on the new Southwest.”  Southwest, the world’s largest discount airline, agreed
this week to buy AirTran for $1.4 billion in cash and stock. The
purchase would enable Southwest to resume the capacity growth it
halted in 2008, and bring it into direct competition with  Delta
Air Lines Inc.  at Delta’s largest hub in Atlanta.  Southwest is known for moving into new markets and slashing
fares to stimulate travel and woo passengers away from rivals.
It may have to deviate this time from that pattern, dubbed the
“Southwest Effect” in a 1993 U.S. Transportation Department
study, and move from discounting to higher ticket prices for
routes run by AirTran.  “Southwest prices its product higher than AirTran does,”
 Jamie Baker , a JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst, said in a report
yesterday. “We expect costs and fares to be marked to Southwest
levels, suggesting improved returns for everyone in markets
where AirTran already has a presence.”  Lowest Average Fare  Southwest sees the lowest average fare as being “at the
core of our DNA,”  Brad Hawkins , a spokesman for Dallas-based
Southwest, said in an e-mail. “Every decision takes that into
account.”  Tad Hutcheson , a spokesman for Orlando, Florida-based
AirTran, declined to comment.  The lowest available fare for a round-trip, single-
connection flight between Washington and San Francisco,
departing Oct. 10 and returning Oct. 15, was $221.40 at AirTran
and $258.60 at Southwest. The fare prices are as of today and do
not include taxes or fees.  Southwest fell 5 cents to $13.19 at 4:02 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading, while AirTran advanced 1 cent
to $7.34.  ‘Affordable Pricing’  Southwest’s “affordable pricing” helps determine fares
for other airlines in the markets it serves, according to  Henry Harteveldt , a senior analyst at Forrester Research Inc. in San
Francisco. Some analysts expect Southwest, the biggest U.S.
airline by market value, to remain true to its lower-fare
strategy, even as other airlines increase fares amid a
contracting industry.  “In the near-term, this deal should be beneficial for
fliers in Atlanta and perhaps in other cities Southwest is new
to,”  Craig Hutson , a senior bond analyst at Gimme Credit LLC,
said in an interview yesterday. “Longer term, consolidation as
an industry trend should herald higher fares over time.”  Southwest will also extend its capacity-management style to
AirTran, said  James M. Higgins , an analyst at Soleil Securities
Corp. in New York who advises holding Southwest and AirTran.  Over the past two years, Southwest has readjusted flight
schedules to eliminate poorly performing routes and move
capacity to more-profitable markets.  Airline Integration  The takeover, announced Sept. 27, should close in about
nine months, the carriers said. Southwest doesn’t expect to gain
a single operating certificate for about two years. During the
interim, it will focus on integrating the separate airlines.  Southwest expects costs of $300 million to $500 million to
mesh the carriers, and annual “synergies” of about $400
million. The combined airline will keep Southwest’s policies of
not charging for the first two checked bags, not assigning seats
and single-class cabins.  Southwest climbed 8.7 percent on Sept. 27 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading, while AirTran jumped 61 percent.
Yesterday, Southwest fell 11 cents to $13.24 and AirTran lost 1
cent to $7.33.  Southwest is the fifth-largest U.S. carrier based on miles
flown by paying passengers, while AirTran is No. 8. Once the
merger of  UAL Corp.’ s United Airlines and Continental Airlines
Inc. closes this week, Southwest-AirTran will be ranked fourth.  In addition to decreasing discount pricing that is
“destructive” to the industry, the combination allows
Southwest to grow without increasing capacity, said  Jim Corridore , a Standard & Poor’s equity analyst in New York.
Keeping capacity close to demand typically allows airlines to
increase fares.  “This is the way to grow,” Corridore, who advises buying
Southwest and AirTran, said in an interview. “They will be 20
to 25 percent larger, without increasing industry capacity by
one seat.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Schlangenstein  in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  