-- South Korean Manufacturers' Confidence Falls to Eight-Month Low in Index
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2010-09-29T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/south-korean-manufacturers-confidence-falls-to-eight-month-low-in-index.html
South Korean manufacturers’
confidence fell to the lowest level in eight months as slower
global growth soured the outlook for the nation’s exporters.  An  index  measuring expectations for October fell to 99 from
104 for September, the Bank of Korea said today. The reading
reached 107 for May, the highest level since the fourth quarter
of 2002. A measure of non-manufacturing companies’ expectations
climbed to 86 from 85.  “Firms became more pessimistic about their sales outlook
amid increasing uncertainty over the global economy,”  Son Won ,
an economist at the central bank, said yesterday before the
release. “Many exporters expect weaker performance for the
third quarter than the previous quarter.”  A 6.5 percent increase in the won in the past three months
and risks including elevated U.S. unemployment may cool the
trade gains propelling South Korea’s economy. The central bank
left borrowing costs unchanged on Sept. 9, joining counterparts
from Malaysia to Australia in pausing interest-rate increases to
assess the strength of the world recovery.  The nation’s current-account surplus narrowed to a four-
month low last month as the value of goods exports fell amid a
holiday season that shuttered some factories, a report showed
yesterday.  Sales at the nation’s major department stores rose at the
slowest pace in three months in August, while  consumer
confidence  declined to a 14-month low in September.  Export Outlook  Today’s report showed an index measuring the outlook for
exports was 115, down from 118 a month ago. A gauge for the
domestic sales outlook for October also declined, to 111 from
113.  The survey, conducted between Sept. 10 and Sept. 17, is
based on responses from 1,515 manufacturers and 849 non-
manufacturers.  The economy grew 7.6 percent in the first half and is
projected to expand 5.9 percent this year, before slowing to a
4.5 percent pace next year, according to the Bank of Korea.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  