-- Inflation in South Africa Eases to 3.5% as the Rand's Surge Reduces Costs
-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 2010-09-29T10:14:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/south-african-inflation-eases-to-3-5-as-the-rand-s-surge-reduces-costs.html
South African inflation slowed to
3.5 percent in August as the rand’s surge and lower gasoline
costs helped to curb prices, leaving the door open for further
interest rate cuts.  The  inflation  rate fell from 3.7 percent in July, the
Pretoria-based statistics office said on its  website  today. The
 median estimate  of 22 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 3.6
percent. Prices rose 0.1 percent in the month.  The rand has climbed about 10 percent against the dollar
this quarter, helping to reduce the cost of imports such as oil
and keeping inflation within the target range of 3 percent to 6
percent. That allowed the Reserve Bank to cut its benchmark
interest  rate  to 6 percent on Sept. 9, the eighth reduction in
21 months, to help spur the  economy .  “The rand has continued to strengthen,” said  Elna Moolman , an economist at Renaissance BJM in Johannesburg. “If
this continues into the next Monetary Policy Committee meeting,
there’ll be a material chance of a rate cut.” Inflation will
probably remain below 4 percent until June next year, she said.  Bonds extended gains after the data. The yield on the R157
bond, due 2015, fell 2 basis points, or 0.02 percentage point,
to 7.17 percent. The rand was at 6.9685 against the dollar as of
11:39 a.m., little changed from before the inflation release.  South Africa’s government cut gasoline prices by 10 cents a
liter, or 1.2 percent, on Sept. 1. Crude oil has dropped 7
percent in the past six months and was trading as low as $76.13
a barrel today.  ‘Limited Scope’  Reserve Bank Governor  Gill Marcus  said on Sept. 9 that
inflation will probably remain inside the target band until the
end of 2012, averaging 4.8 percent next year. While the
inflation outlook has given the bank room to ease interest
rates, “the scope for further downward movement is seen to be
limited,” she said.  Since then the rand has gained 3.3 percent against the
dollar, dropping below 7 per dollar for the first time in more
than two-and-a-half years.  Labor unions and manufacturers such as  Steinhoff
International Holdings Ltd. , Africa’s largest furniture maker,
have called on the central bank to step up rate cuts to help
ease the impact of the rand’s gains. The ruling African National
Congress last week failed to agree on a method to weaken the
rand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 