-- South Korea's Industrial Production Advanced for the 14th Month in August
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   W i l l i a m   S i m
-- 2010-09-30T00:37:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/south-korea-s-industrial-production-advanced-for-the-14th-month-in-august.html
South Korea’s factory output rose
for the 14th straight month, signaling economic resilience that
may add to the case for higher borrowing costs.  Output  gained 17.1 percent in August from a year earlier,
after rising 15.5 percent in July, the statistics office said in
Gwacheon today. The  median estimate  of 13 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was for a 17 percent gain. Production decreased 1
percent from July.  Reviving overseas demand has boosted factory output and
fueled the economy this year, threatening price pressures. Bank
of Korea Governor  Kim Choong Soo  has indicated policy makers may
add to July’s benchmark interest-rate increase from a record-low
level, while saying the process of normalizing borrowing costs
will take time as the bank must be sure of the world recovery.  “The economic growth pace and inflation pressures call for
another rate increase as early as next month,” said  June Park ,
an economist at Woori Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul.
“But I doubt the central bank has the will to move the rate
amid a sluggish property market and slowdowns in major
economies.”  Kim  left the benchmark unchanged at 2.25 percent in August
and September, following a 0.25 percentage point increase in
July from 2 percent. That move was the first advance since the
global financial crisis. The economy expanded 7.6 percent in the
first half, the fastest pace in a decade.  Won’s Role  The won was little changed at 1,142 per dollar as of 9:00
a.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
 Kospi  share index rose 0.2 percent to 1,870.55.  Overseas shipments  account for about half the economy, and
the won’s 1.9% increase this year, the second-worst performance
in Asia, has supported export competitiveness at companies
including  Samsung Electronics Co. , Asia’s biggest maker of
semiconductors, flat screens and mobile phones.  “Korea’s manufacturing sector should not underperform the
regional peers, taking into account a competitive exchange rate
and persistently strong productivity growth,” analysts at DBS
Bank Ltd. said in a note yesterday. Seasonal factors stemming
from the nation’s holidays over August and September require
“careful” interpretation of data reports over the period, DBS
said.  The won’s advance has accelerated recently, including a 4.4
percent jump in the past month. Its level is a “critical
factor” in the nation’s trade outlook,  Cho Hwan Eik , president
of Korea Trade-Investment Promotion Agency, said in an interview
in Seoul on Aug. 31.  A  leading index  of economic indicators, which forecasts
business activity, rose 5.9 percent in August from a year
earlier, compared with a 6.7 percent gain in July, today’s
report showed.  Sales of consumer goods slipped 0.7 percent last month from
July and advanced 9.3 percent from a year earlier. Investment in
factories increased 39.8 percent from a year earlier.  The Bank of Korea’s policy board next meets to review
borrowing costs on Oct. 14.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
 William Sim  in Seoul at 
 wsim2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  