-- South Africa's President Zuma Says Zimbabwe Sanctions May Hinder Elections
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2010-09-29T10:01:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/south-africa-s-president-zuma-says-zimbabwe-sanctions-may-hinder-elections.html
South African President  Jacob Zuma 
said the continued imposition of sanctions against Zimbabwe may
hinder efforts to hold credible elections and defuse tension in
the southern African nation.  Zimbabwe ’s main political parties formed a unity government
in February last year following a decade of recession and
political turmoil that drove millions into exile. The European
Union and the U.S. have maintained asset freezes and travel bans
against President  Robert Mugabe  and some members of his Zimbabwe
African National Union-Patriotic Front party, demanding more
proof of their commitment to democracy and human rights.  “Our view is that if we do not remove these sanctions, we
are in fact playing into the hands of those who would want
tensions to remain in Zimbabwe,” Zuma said in response to
questions in the EU Parliament in Brussels today. “As we head
for elections, we are likely to get increased tension. If we
remove all these issues, we do not offer people an excuse to say
we have got a problem.”  Zuma was tasked by the  Southern African Development
Community , a 15-nation regional grouping, to mediate in
Zimbabwe. His intervention has failed to stop Zanu-PF members
from engaging in political violence or disrupting public
meetings held to debate a new constitution, Human Rights Watch
said in a statement yesterday.  “Without rights reforms and accountability for continuing
abuses, the kind of violence that plagued the 2008 elections is
likely to happen again,” said Rona Peligal, Africa Director of
the New York-based group.  Zuma said “major progress” had been made in Zimbabwe, and
sanctions were no longer warranted.  “The argument that is represented by Zanu-PF is that
whilst the world is supporting the unity government, it is not
supporting its functioning to the fullest,” he said. “Some of
the Cabinet members can do their work, can go everywhere in the
world, some cannot. We think the global community could give on
this one so that we are able to move forward.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 