-- South Korea's Won Climbs to a Four-Month High on Current-Account Outlook
-- B y   F r a n c e s   Y o o n
-- 2010-09-29T08:28:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/south-korea-s-won-climbs-to-a-four-month-high-on-current-account-outlook.html
South Korea’s won rose to its
strongest level in more than four months as the central bank
said this year’s current-account  surplus  may exceed its forecast.  The currency climbed for a third day as Bank of Korea
official Lee Young Bog said the surplus in the account, which
tracks net inflows from trade in goods and services, could be
more than the full-year prediction of $21 billion by September.
The won has gained 5 percent this month, Asia’s best performance,
as global funds pumped more than $3.1 billion into Korean shares.  “At the current pace, the surplus may reach $30 billion by
the end of this year,” said  Christian Carrillo , head of Asia-
Pacific rates strategy at Societe Generale SA in Tokyo. “That
implies that the Korean won would likely continue
appreciating.”  The won advanced 0.4 percent to 1,142.10 per dollar as of
the 3 p.m. close in Seoul, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It touched 1,139.84, the strongest level since May 14.
Overseas investors  bought  more shares than they sold today,
boosting net purchases for this year to more than $10 billion.  There is further scope for the won to strengthen as
inflation concerns, spurred by rising labor costs in China, make
policy makers more tolerant of appreciation, Barclays Capital
economists  Prakriti Sofat  and  Wai Ho Leong  wrote in a report
published today. Barclays expects the currency to reach 1,125
per dollar by year-end, Sofat said in an interview today.  Inflation Risk  Inflationary pressure in South Korea may grow as the
economy recovers, though the chance of a sharp increase in
consumer prices is “not high,” the finance ministry said today.  An Oct. 1 government report will show consumer prices
increased 2.9 percent in September from a year earlier, the most
since January, based on the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey of economists. The central bank is targeting inflation of
between 2 percent and 4 percent through 2012.  South Korea’s three-year bonds rose to their highest level
since the current benchmark note was issued more than three
months ago. The yield on the 3.75 percent debt due June 2013
fell four basis points to 3.33 percent, according to Korea Stock
Exchange. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Frances Yoon  in Seoul at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 