-- Speculation in Food Commodities Should Be Limited, German Candy Group Says
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2010-09-29T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/speculation-in-food-commodities-should-be-limited-german-candy-group-says.html
Speculative trading of food
commodities by banks and funds should be restricted or their
positions in items such as wheat and cocoa publicly disclosed,
the  Association of the German Confectionery Industry  said.  Investors not connected to producing food have brought some
food markets into “considerable disarray,” the Bonn-based
association of about 200 companies said in a statement today.
Cocoa climbed to the highest price since at least 1989 in June
and wheat a month later had the biggest monthly jump since 1973.  “Raw material prices for foods are being increasingly
determined by the financial market and not by supply and
demand,” the association’s chairman, Dietmar Kendzuir, said in
the statement. “If the key pricing factors are not crop yield
expectations on the one hand and demand and consumer behavior on
the other, then free and fair market mechanisms are thrown off
balance.”  A group of 16 cocoa consumers including the German
association in July wrote to the NYSE Liffe exchange in London
where cocoa is traded to complain about a lack of transparency,
saying that they may transfer trading to  ICE Futures U.S.  in New
York, according to a copy of the letter obtained by Bloomberg
News.  The exchange said earlier this month it would issue
position reports in cocoa, coffee and sugar traded in London
similar to those already produced for U.S. markets by the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  Disclosures, Limits  The  International Cocoa Organization , the group of 43
cocoa-buying and -growing countries, said NYSE Liffe needs rules
governing the disclosure of positions in futures markets and
limits on how many contracts can be held, according to an
internal report obtained by Bloomberg News last week.  France will push for “concrete decisions on regulation” to
curb speculation in agricultural markets during its presidency
of the Group of 20 nations, the country’s Agriculture Minister
Bruno Le Maire said this month.  “Initiatives undertaken by the ICCO and the governments of
Germany and France promoting transparency on the raw materials
markets of the world are a first important step in the right
direction,” the German association said.  Customers, Regulator  Liffe will consult with its customers and regulator to
determine if further changes are needed, spokesman  James Dunseath  said Sept. 17.  “We will also be mindful of the broader developments on
the subject of market regulation including proposed regulations
on EU derivatives markets, covering both market transparency and
the potential imposition of position limits,” he said.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services commissioner,
said Sept. 20 that “hyper speculation” in commodities markets
would be one area targeted by regulators.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Kay  in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  