-- Sterlite Plunges on Order to Shut Copper Smelter on Environment Grounds
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r   a n d   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2010-09-29T11:40:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/sterlite-tumbles-after-getting-court-order-to-shut-copper-smelter-in-india.html
Sterlite Industries (India) Ltd. ,
the nation’s largest copper producer, fell the most in 21 months
in Mumbai trading after a court ordered it to shutter its only
smelter for breaching environment standards.  The  shares  fell 8.4 percent, the most since Jan. 9, 2009,
to 161.40 rupees at the 3:30 p.m. close of trading. The
 Sensitive Index  of the Bombay Stock Exchange fell 0.7 percent.
Sterlite is the worst performer on the key index this year.  India is tightening rules to protect environmentally
sensitive regions, prevent illegal mining and protect the
resources and livelihood of the people living around mines and
factories. Closing the 400,000 metric ton smelter set up in 1996
will erode Sterlite’s earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization margin by 8 percent and the share
price by 14 rupees, investor  Deven Choksey  said.  “If at all there was a requirement of better control you
could have given a timeframe in which they could have done it,”
said Choksey, chief executive officer at K.R. Choksey Shares &
Securities Pvt., which manages about $123 million in equities.
“It seems the government is bent on taking impulsive and knee-
jerk decisions.”  Future Course  Sterlite is waiting for the full text of the order before
it decides on a future course of action, according to an e-
mailed statement released after the order yesterday. Workers at
the copper refinery at Tuticorin in the southern Indian state of
Tamil Nadu will have to be compensated, according to the
judgment of the Madras High Court.  Pavan Kaushik , a spokesman for parent  Vedanta Resources Plc ,
could not be reached immediately on his mobile phone today.  “There has been gross violation of environmental norms in
the Sterlite project and the High Court’s order today has
vindicated our stand,” said Fatima Babu, head of a women’s
group opposing the copper project at Tuticorin. “We now seek
criminal proceeding against the officials involved in giving
clearance to the project in the first place.”  The government last month rejected a proposal by  Vedanta
Resources  to mine bauxite in the eastern state of Orissa and may
scrap environment clearance for its existing aluminum refinery,
hampering a planned $8 billion expansion.  Sterlite plans to double the Tuticorin smelter capacity to
800,000 tons by the middle of 2011, according to its annual
report. The smelter uses concentrate produced from the company’s
mines in Tasmania, Australia and other sources.  “The Tuticorin smelter has been operating for more than 12
years and has been in compliance with necessary rules and
regulations,” the company said in the statement yesterday.  Sterlite’s copper business including rods, cathodes and
chemicals generated sales of 125.4 billion rupees ($2.8 billion)
last year, according to the annual report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Abhishek Shanker  in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  