-- Stocks Attract Record Inflows as Foreign Funds Drive Indian Sensex Rally
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w   a n d   P a r e s h   J a t a k i a
-- 2010-09-29T13:06:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/stocks-attract-record-inflows-as-foreign-funds-drive-indian-sensex-rally.html
Indian stocks attracted a record
 843.6 billion rupees  ($18.7 billion) from foreign  funds  this
year, driving a rally that made the nation’s equities index the
best performer among the world’s 10 biggest markets.  Overseas investors purchased 35.4 billion rupees of shares
and sold 26.5 billion rupees yesterday, the Securities and
Exchange Board of India said  today . They sold 9.74 billion
rupees of bonds, paring total debt purchases this year to 465.9
billion rupees.  International investors, seeking to participate in the
accelerating pace of economic growth in the South Asian nation,
added 8.95 billion rupees in equities yesterday, topping
overseas purchases last year, according to  data  compiled by the
market regulator. India’s gross domestic product expanded 8.8
percent last quarter from a year earlier, the most among major
economies in Asia after China.  “The Indian economy is going to quadruple in the next 10-
12 years,” said  Sunil Singhania , head of equities at Reliance
Capital Asset Management Ltd., India’s biggest money manager,
with $23 billion in assets. The pace of India’s growth led to
“different perception among overseas investors. Foreign inflows
will continue over the next five to six years.”  Foreign fund inflows to India’s equities have increased 55
percent this year, making the benchmark index the most expensive
in Asia and among the BRIC markets that also include Brazil,
Russia and China. Foreigners have invested 240.8 billion rupees
in equities this month.  ‘Not Cheap’  “In the near term, we are not cheap, but if someone is
investing for the long term he need not worry about the near
term,” Singhania said in an interview in Mumbai yesterday. “If
the economy grows at 8 percent, then corporate earnings might
grow at more than 20 percent in the next two three years.”  The flows have pushed the benchmark  Sensitive Index  to the
highest level in more than 2 1/2 years and helped the rupee
rebound 6.1 percent from an eight-month low in May. The  Sensex 
has climbed 14.3 percent this year, the most among the world’s
10 largest stock markets by value, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Equity purchases this year include 218.3 billion
rupees from the primary market, the regulator said.  Billionaire investor  Rakesh Jhunjhunwala  said this week
Indian equities are set for a “multiyear” bull market.  Overseas  investors  have invested 3.98 trillion rupees in
stocks and 788.5 billion rupees in bonds since they were allowed
into the country in 1993. Flows reached 834.2 billion rupees in
2009, sparking the biggest rally in 18 years. They withdrew a
record 530 billion rupees from stocks in 2008, setting off the
worst annual slump.  The regulator provides data on shares bought and sold by
large investors, including trades in the primary and secondary
markets, with a delay of at least a day.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rajhkumar K Shaaw  in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net ;
 Paresh Jatakia  in Mumbai at 
 pareshj@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at   lchua@bloomberg.net  