-- Sumitomo Invests in $900 Million Malaysian Smelter Project
-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r
-- 2010-09-29T04:11:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/sumitomo-corp-invests-in-900-million-malaysian-aluminum-smelter-project.html
Sumitomo Corp. , Japan’s third-
largest trading company, will invest in an aluminum smelting
project costing as much as $900 million in Malaysia’s eastern
Sarawak state.  Sumitomo will acquire a 20 percent stake in a subsidiary of
Kuala Lumpur-listed  Press Metal Bhd. , which is constructing a
$300 million smelter slated for completion by the end of this
year, according to a statement from Sumitomo. It has an option
to increase its stake to 25 percent and participate in a
proposed $600 million second-phase expansion.  Press Metal joins Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. in planning
to develop smelters in Sarawak where a 2,400-megawatt
hydroelectric dam is nearing completion. Chalco, as Aluminum
Corp. is known, is developing a $1 billion smelter with
Malaysia’s GIIG Holdings Sdn., while Rio Tinto Group is
partnering Cahya Mata Sarawak Bhd. on another project.  “Sumitomo expects that the new partnership with Press
Metal will enhance its long-term growth strategy in the aluminum
business,” the Tokyo-based company said in a statement on its
website.  Press Metal  rose 0.7 percent to 1.47 ringgit in Kuala
Lumpur trading at 10:56 a.m. local time, after earlier rising
4.1 percent.  Their smelter will have initial annual capacity of 120,000
metric tons when the first phase is completed at the end of this
year. Capacity may double by the end of 2012 through a second
phase expansion, the statement said.  Sumitomo wouldn’t disclosure its investment amount due to a
confidentiality agreement, spokesman Taro Ueno said in a e-mail
to Bloomberg.  The group already has investments in aluminum smelters in
Australia, Brazil and Indonesia.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs in Sydney at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  