-- Swedish Central Bank Rate Path Risks More Gains in Krona, Ekholm Forecasts
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2010-09-29T13:15:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/swedish-riksbank-s-rate-path-risks-fueling-krona-appreciation-ekholm-says.html
Sweden’s  central bank  risks fueling
a krona appreciation that will prevent inflation from reaching
its target if it sticks to the current tightening forecast,
Deputy Governor  Karolina Ekholm  said.  “I expect pretty low rates in the U.S. and the euro area
and there’s a risk that if we proceed with very quick rate
increases there may be a pretty strong appreciation of the krona
and that’s something that can push down inflation in the
future,” Ekholm said in an interview in Stockholm today.  Sweden’s central bank this month raised its benchmark repo
rate a quarter point to 0.75 percent in part, it said, to cool
the housing market.  Inflation , which has lagged behind the
bank’s 2 percent target since December 2008, slipped 0.2 point
to 0.9 percent last month. Rate rises in Sweden, which emerged
from an eight-month bout of deflation last year, have helped
send the krona 12 percent higher against the euro this year as
investors chase higher yields.  “We would achieve our targets better if we reduced” the
rate path “about a percentage point toward the end of our
forecast horizon” in 2013, Ekholm said. Sluggish recoveries in
the U.S. and euro area “will have a certain downward pressure
both on inflation and resource utilization.”  The Riksbank’s current  rate path  shows the repo rate
averaging 3.8 percent in the third quarter of 2013. Swedish
house prices increased for a 16th consecutive three-month period
in August, jumping an annual 6 percent, Statistics Sweden said
on Sept. 16.  ‘Raises Tone’  “This raises the tone of the discussion” amongst Riksbank
board members, said  Annika Winsth , chief economist at Nordea
Bank AB, the biggest Nordic lender. “There is a chance that
Karolina may get it right, that they should hike here and now
but that they won’t have to go as far as the Riksbank
predicts.”  Riksbank Deputy Governor  Lars E. O. Svensson , who has voted
against his bank’s tightening path, told newspaper Svenska
Dagbladet this week that sticking to the current rate path may
be “a catastrophe” for Sweden’s economy.  The krona traded 0.1 percent higher against the euro at
9.1794 at 3:07 p.m. in Stockholm, having receded from a gain of
as much as 0.6 percent earlier in the day. Against the dollar,
the krona was up 0.1 percent, compared with 0.9 percent earlier
in the day.  Inflationary Pressures  In its Sept. 2 rate report, the Riksbank said it raised
rates because “household indebtedness has increased
significantly in recent years.” While inflationary pressures
are “currently low,” the bank said price growth will
accelerate as “economic activity strengthens.” It expects the
economy to grow 4.1 percent this year.  The bank’s current forecast indicates it may raise the main
rate a half point by the end of the year to 1.25 percent. Ekholm
declined to comment on whether she supports the Riksbank’s near-
term forecast.  Ekholm and Svensson are the only two of the Riksbank
board’s six members to enter reservations against the rate path.  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  on Sept.
2 said his bank’s benchmark rate, which has remained at 1
percent since May 2009, is at an “appropriate” level,
signaling no immediate plan to tighten monetary policy.  The Federal Reserve on Sept. 21 reiterated plans to keep
its main rate “exceptionally low” for an “extended period.”
The U.S. benchmark has remained in a range of zero to 0.25
percent since December 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Johan Carlstrom  in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  