-- U.K. Services Contract for Second Month on Drop at Law Firms, Accountants
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2010-09-29T08:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/u-k-services-contract-for-second-month-on-drop-at-law-firms-accountants.html
Britain’s service industries
contracted for a second month in July as production at law and
accountancy firms fell and government output dropped.  Services, which account for three quarters of the economy,
shrank 0.2 percent from the previous month, when they declined
by the same amount, the Office for National Statistics said in
London today. In the three months through July, services grew by
0.5 percent, the least since the first quarter.  The data provide the first glimpse of slowing growth in the
third quarter from the bulk of the U.K. economy, which grew the
most in nine years in the three months through June. The
recovery may moderate further as the government implements the
biggest public-spending squeeze since World War II. Bank of
England policy maker  Adam Posen  said yesterday that officials
should restart their bond-purchase plan to aid growth.  “Services will be hit by the fiscal tightening that’s
coming,”  Howard Archer , an economist at IHS Global Insight in
London, said in an interview before the report. “The bank is
going to hold fire for now but it depends on how much momentum
the economy loses.”  Business services and finance, which accounts for 41
percent of overall services, contracted by 0.5 percent on the
month as production dropped in the category that includes
lawyers, accountants, bookkeepers, management consultants and
market researchers, the statistics office said.  Government, Retail  Government services, accounting for 31 percent of the
index, dropped by 0.5 percent because output fell in the
education and sewage categories, the report showed.  The hotels and restaurants component increased by 0.8
percent. Distribution, which includes retailers, wholesale and
the motor trade, expanded by 0.6 percent. Transport, storage and
communication grew by 0.3 percent. Those three categories
together account for about 28 percent of the services index.  Wigan, England-based JJB Sports Plc, the U.K.’s third-
largest sporting goods retailer, said yesterday revenue growth
at stores open at least a year slowed to 6 percent in the four
weeks through Sept. 26 from 18 percent in the prior month, as it
added promotions following “more volatile” sales.  The Bank of England kept the benchmark interest rate
unchanged at 0.5 percent this month and held its bond-purchase
plan at 200 billion pounds ($315 billion).  “The risks I believe we face now are the far more serious
ones of sustained low growth turning into a self-fulfilling
prophecy, and/or inducing a political reaction that could
undermine our long-run stability and prosperity,” Posen said
yesterday in a speech in Hull, England. “Those tendencies are
already present and insufficient monetary response is likely to
worsen them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jennifer Ryan  in London at 
 Jryan13@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Fraher  at  