-- U.K. Stocks Decline as Banks, Vedanta Fall, Rolls-Royce, Carnival Advance
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2010-09-29T16:46:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/u-k-stocks-decline-led-by-banks-vedanta-rolls-royce-carnival-advance.html
U.K. stocks  retreated as a selloff
in mining company Vedanta Resources Plc and bank shares
overshadowed brokerage upgrades of Rolls-Royce Group Plc and
Carnival Plc.  Vedanta dropped more than 4 percent, falling for a second
day, while HSBC Holdings Plc led a gauge of banks lower as U.K.
mortgage lending fell. Rolls-Royce, the world’s second-biggest
engine maker, jumped 3.5 percent and Carnival, the largest
cruise-ship operator, gained 1.8 percent.  The  FTSE 100 Index  fell 9.17, or 0.2 percent, to 5,569.27
at the 4:30 p.m. close in London, after rallying as much as 0.8
percent earlier today. The  FTSE All-Share Index  lost 0.1 percent
and Ireland’s  ISEQ Index  decreased 0.2 percent.  “We are in the last few days of the quarter and investors
have been squaring up their positions,” said  Richard Hunter ,
head of U.K. equities at Hargreaves Lansdown Plc in Bristol,
England. “They’re not seeing any positive catalysts to open up
a new position, so it could be a quiet couple of days.”  The FTSE 100 has gained 13 percent since the end of June,
poised for the biggest quarterly advance in a year, amid an
increase in takeover activity and easing concern about the
strength of the global economic recovery.  Vedanta, controlled by billionaire  Anil Agarwal , dropped
4.3 percent to 2,165 pence. The shares tracked a selloff in
Sterlite Industries (India) Ltd. after a court ordered the
nation’s largest copper producer to shutter its only smelter for
breaching environment standards.  Banks Decline  HSBC, Europe’s biggest bank, fell 1.6 percent to 649 pence,
Lloyds Banking Group Plc lost 1.3 percent to 74.3 pence and
Barclays Plc slid 1.2 percent to 305.25 pence.  U.K. mortgage lending fell for a fourth month in August,
according to Bank of England figures, adding to signs the
housing-market recovery is faltering as the prospect of budget
cuts looms.  Separately,  Adair Turner , the chairman of the U.K.
Financial Services Authority, said big banks should face higher
capital requirements than smaller lenders, since the risks in
the event of bankruptcy are greater, Les Echos reported, citing
an interview.  Rolls-Royce  advanced 3.5 percent to 612 pence after Morgan
Stanley raised its recommendation for the engine maker to
“overweight” from “equal weight” and lifted its share price
estimate to 720 pence.  Analysts  named the company as their “top pick’ in the
European aerospace & defense industry, saying the market is
“missing the potential for improved profitability.”  Cruise Demand  Carnival increased 1.8 percent to 2,541 pence after Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. raised the cruise liner to “buy” from
“neutral” and increased its price estimate for the U.S.-traded
shares to $44 from $36, citing a “solid improvement’ in cruise
demand.  BP  increased 3.9 percent to 421 pence on optimism the oil
company may avoid litigation stemming from the Gulf of Mexico
oil spill.  The Associated Press cited Representative  Steve Scalise , a
Louisiana Republican, as saying a possible settlement with the
energy company was under discussion. A U.S. Justice Department
official said no talks were under way. Stephen Bell, a spokesman
for Scalise, said the congressman was referring to the likely
process of trying to reach a settlement to avoid litigation, not
actual talks.  Wolseley Gains  Wolseley Plc , which has been meeting with investors since
reporting results on Sept. 27, jumped 6.4 percent to 1,591
pence, the biggest advance in the FTSE 100.  Liberum Capital raised its 2011 to 2013 earnings forecasts
for the world’s largest supplier of heating and plumbing
producers and also reiterated its “buy” rating.  “We think full year results confirmed Wolseley’s margin
recovery potential,” London-based analyst  Charlie Campbell 
wrote in a report to clients today. “We believe that Wolseley’s
businesses have the ability to achieve historic margins again.
Most of its businesses still have strong market positions.”  The following stocks either rose or fell in the U.K. and or
Irish markets. Stock symbols are in parentheses.  Babcock International Group Plc  (BAB LN) rallied 24 pence,
or 4.4 percent, to 575.5 pence after the company, which
maintains Britain’s submarine fleet, said it remains
“confident” in its outlook for the full year and
“thereafter.”  Dairy Crest Group Plc  (DCG LN) increased 23.6 pence, or 6.8
percent, to 372.6 after the U.K.’s biggest milk and cheese
producer said Germany’s Theo Mueller Group acquired a 3 percent
stake in the company.  “This indicates that Mueller may make a formal offer for
Dairy Crest,”  Damian McNeela , an analyst at Panmure Gordon said
by phone today. “They might be looking to widen their product
base in the U.K.”  Panmure Gordon & Co.  (PMR LN) fell 1.5 pence, or 4.8
percent, to 30 pence after the 134 year-old U.K. stockbroker
reported a widening first-half loss of 5.96 million pounds
($9.44 million), citing lower commission income.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Jones  in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 