-- U.K. September Consumer Confidence Falls More Than Forecast
-- B y   C r a i g   S t i r l i n g
-- 2010-09-29T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/u-k-september-consumer-confidence-falls-more-than-forecast.html
U.K.  consumer confidence  dropped by
more than economists forecast in September as Britons’ pessimism
on personal finances and the economy deepened, GfK NOP said.  The index of sentiment declined to minus 20 after an
increase to minus 18 in August, the London-based market research
company said in an e-mailed statement today. Economists
predicted a reading of minus 19, according to the median of 16
forecasts in a  Bloomberg News survey .  Britain’s economic recovery has waned in the past quarter
after the strongest spurt of growth in nine years, with Prime
Minister  David Cameron ’s public-spending squeeze overshadowing
prospects for the next year. Bank of England policy maker  Adam Posen  said this week that officials may need to add more
stimulus to support the economy.  “September’s slump suggests the rise in consumer
confidence in August was a false dawn,”  Nick Moon , managing
director of GfK NOP Social Research, said in the statement.
“Besides the trough in July probably caused by the emergency
budget, this month’s figure is the lowest confidence has been
for the past year.”  All four indexes measuring personal finances and the
economic situation in the past year and in the next 12 months
declined, GfK said. The only gauge in the report to show an
increase was the measure of the climate for major purchases,
which increased by five points to minus 15.  Britain’s economy “has not materially picked up,”  Brian Brick , chief executive officer of U.K. men’s clothing retailer
Moss Bros Group Plc said in a statement yesterday. “We remain
in a period with tough economic conditions and consumer
uncertainty.”  Unemployment Claims  Jobless benefit claims unexpectedly increased in August for
the first time in seven months. Services, which account for
about 75 percent of the economy, contracted for a second month
in July. That suggests the third quarter began with a slower
pace of growth after  gross domestic product  jumped 1.2 percent
in the three months through June.  The Conservative-led coalition government is preparing
spending cuts and tax increases totaling 113 billion pounds
($178 billion) to reduce the record  budget deficit . Posen said
on Sept. 28 that “subject to further debate, I think further
easing should be undertaken.”  There was no pay increase for government workers in the
quarter through August, according to the median settlement
recorded by salary research group Incomes Data Services. That
was offset by higher increases in service industries and
manufacturing, leaving the median for the economy at 2 percent.  “As the economy has slowly recovered, there has been a
general ‘defrosting’ of pay and benefits across much of the
private sector,”  Ken Mulkearn , editor of the IDS Pay Report,
said in a statement. “Inflation is forecast to remain
comparatively high, and if the economic recovery continues, pay
awards in the private sector could be centered on 3 percent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Craig Stirling  in London at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  