-- Self-Storage May See European Property's Biggest Profit Growth
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2010-09-29T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/u-k-self-storage-may-offer-european-real-estate-s-best-earnings-growth.html
British companies that rent out
space to store your old exercise bikes and rusty golf clubs may
offer the best earnings growth among European property stocks as
they cut vacancies that mounted in the  housing slump .  A pickup in storage occupancy and rental rates in recent
months suggests that  Safestore Holdings Plc ,  Big Yellow Group
Plc  and  Lok’nStore Group Plc  may be past the worst following an
ill-timed expansion push, according to  Paul Pulze , an analyst at
Evolution Securities in London.  “If the economy starts to improve and the companies can
drive demand for the product, there’s significant upside
relative to other real estate,” said Pulze, who has a “buy”
recommendation on  Safestore  and a “neutral” for  Big Yellow .  Safestore and Big Yellow, the two biggest U.K. storage
chains, only need their facilities to be 40 percent full to
break even, and any additional space leased is pure profit. That
has helped convince analysts at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Morgan Stanley that the shares may
outperform in an industry plagued by prospects of stagnant rents
and property values.  A 1 percentage point improvement in Big Yellow’s annual
average occupancy would lift  earnings per share  by 6 percent,
while a 1 point increase in the average rental rate increases
earnings by 3 percent, according to  Bianca Riemer , an analyst at
Morgan Stanley who rates Big Yellow “overweight.”  The typical large self-storage facility is a multistory
warehouse located near a main road. The several hundred cubicles
inside can be as small as 6 square feet or as large as a tennis
court. Two-thirds of customers are private individuals, ranging
from EBay Inc. traders to people in the process of moving.  Expansion Spree  Companies embarked on an expansion spree that lifted the
number of stores by 36 percent from 2006 to 2008, according to
members of the  Self Storage Association , the body that
represents the U.K.’s 350 million-pound ($550 million) industry.  Average annual rental rates then fell 2.8 percent in 2009
to 20.49 pounds a square foot. Big Yellow said occupancy at its
32 oldest stores dropped to 69 percent at the end of March from
84 percent at the peak of the U.K. housing boom three years ago.  Safestore said on Aug. 31 that occupancy at stores across
the U.K. and Paris rose by 3 points to 59 percent in the three
months through July. Average rents climbed 3.5 percent from a
year earlier to 25.17 pounds a square foot.  Investors haven’t shared analysts’ enthusiasm. Safestore,
Big Yellow and Lok’nStore have declined an average 8.3 percent
in the past 12 months, exceeding the 3.2 percent slide for the
 FTSE 350 Real Estate Index.   That probably reflects concern that few people can move to
new homes in a real-estate market hobbled by curtailed mortgage
lending, said  Michael Burt , a London-based analyst at Execution
Noble. He expects occupancy levels may grow at half the rate
some other analysts are predicting.  ‘You Are Gambling’  “If you are looking for a huge jump in earnings per share,
you are gambling on  mortgage approvals ,” Burt said. He has a
“buy” rating on Safestore and a “sell” on Big Yellow.  Since the self-storage industry started in the U.K. in the
early 1980s, about 800 facilities have opened offering the
equivalent of 0.52 square foot for every Briton, the most in
Europe.  That’s still less than the 7.4 feet of storage available to
each American or the 1.1 foot per Australian, reflecting the
industry’s growth potential. The U.K. also has the oldest
housing stock in Europe and the smallest average room sizes,
according to European Union statistics.  More Stuff  “Current housing doesn’t reflect the need for more storage
because we have so much more stuff,” said Simon Nicol, director
of housing at the  Building Research Establishment , a Watford,
England-based nonprofit consulting body.  The storage companies are taking various measures to drive
sales, in addition to trying to sell more insurance, packing
materials and other accessories, which account for about 15
percent of revenue.  Safestore has targeted partnerships with large corporations,
including supermarket chain Tesco Plc and EBay, while Big Yellow
concentrated on developing its brand through distinctive yellow
facilities in prominent locations in the London area.  “We have spent 10 years building the kit and the
operational platform and now it’s a question of filling them,”
 James Gibson , Big Yellow’s chief executive officer, said in an
interview. “It does require an element of patience.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Packard  in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net  