-- U.S. Increases Missile Attacks in Taliban Stronghold in Northern Pakistan
-- B y   J a m e s   R u p e r t   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2010-09-29T03:29:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/u-s-escalates-missile-attacks-in-taliban-stronghold-in-northern-pakistan.html
The U.S. government increased the
number of missile attacks this month against Islamic militant
guerrilla groups in northwest Pakistan to the most this year,
according to researchers who monitor the campaign.  The U.S. so far has launched 22 missile strikes in
September, almost a third of this year’s total of 76, according
to  a count maintained  by the Washington-based  New America
Foundation . The policy research group counted four such attacks
in August and five in July.  All of this month’s reported strikes -- which typically are
fired from remotely piloted Predator or Reaper aircraft -- have
hit Pakistan’s Waziristan region, a Taliban stronghold that
borders Afghanistan, the foundation said.  Nineteen of the missile raids have hit North Waziristan, a
district dominated by the Taliban factions of Afghan commander
 Jalaluddin Haqqani  and Pakistani guerrilla leader Hafiz Gul
Bahadur. Al-Qaeda’s operational chief for Pakistan and
Afghanistan, Sheik Fateh, was killed this month by a drone
strike, Agence France-Press said yesterday, citing unidentified
Pakistani security officials.  ‘Flurry of Strikes’  “The last time there was a flurry of strikes comparable to
this was in January, following the suicide attack on a CIA base
in Khost, Afghanistan, in late December 2009,” said Katherine
Tiedemann, a research fellow at the New America Foundation.
“There were 12 strikes reported that month.”  There may be several reasons for increased attacks, said
Alan Kronstadt, a Pakistan analyst with the nonpartisan
Congressional Research Service.  “There’s been a need seen to keep pressure on the Haqqani
group,” Kronstadt said in an interview.  After floods that ravaged much of Pakistan, the U.S. also
“wanted to send a message there would be no relaxing for them
in whatever interim there is” before counterterrorism
operations on the ground resume, Kronstadt said.  The guerilla groups in North Waziristan have sheltered
fighters and high-ranking leaders of al-Qaeda, and U.S. missile
strikes there in the past two years have aimed at disrupting al-
Qaeda preparations for attacks on Europe or the U.S., according
to Bill Roggio, managing editor of the  Long War Journal  website
on counterterrorism.  This month’s spike in missile attacks is part of a yearlong
escalation. The U.S. has fired more than 75 missiles into
Pakistan so far this year, up from 53 in 2009, according to the
New America Foundation’s count.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 James Rupert  in Islamabad at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net ;
 Tony Capaccio  in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net . 