-- Mortgage Applications Index in U.S. Fell for a Fourth Week
-- B y   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n
-- 2010-09-29T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/u-s-mortgage-applications-index-falls-even-as-rates-decline-to-record-low.html
The number of mortgage applications
in the U.S. declined last week for a fourth straight time, led
by a drop in refinancing even as mortgage rates declined to the
lowest on record.  The  Mortgage Bankers Association’s  index fell 0.8 percent
in the week ended Sept. 24 to the lowest level in almost two
months, the Washington-based group said today.  Refinancing  also
dropped to a seven-week low, while purchases increased for the
first time in three weeks.  Falling home values are making it harder for Americans to
refinance even as borrowing costs drop. At the same time, with
the  unemployment  rate near a 26-year high and stricter lending
standards, housing demand will be slow to improve.  “With lack of job growth, with lack of credit growth
you’re simply not going to get housing and the economy growing
well,”  Michael Gregory , a senior economist at BMO Capital
Markets in Toronto, said before the report.  Reports last week showed sales of existing homes in August
were the second-lowest in more than a decade and those of new
homes were the second-lowest in records going back to 1963. Home
 prices  rose 3.2 percent in July from a year earlier, the
smallest gain since March, according to a report from S&P/Case-
Shiller released yesterday.  The mortgage banker’s group’s refinancing gauge fell 1.6
percent. The purchase measure increased 2.4 percent.  Record Low  The average rate on a  30-year  fixed mortgage fell to 4.38
percent, the lowest in records going back to 1990. At that pace,
monthly payments for each $100,000 of a loan would be about
$499.58, or $34 less than a year ago when the rate was 4.94
percent.  The average rate on a 15-year fixed loan fell to 3.77
percent from 3.88 percent, also the lowest on record, and the
rate on a one-year adjustable increased to 7.04 percent from
6.96 percent.  The  share of applicants  seeking to refinance a loan fell to
80.7 percent from 81.3 percent.  Sales plummeted after the deadline for signing contracts
and becoming eligible for a government homebuyer tax credit
worth as much as $8,000 expired on April 30.  The Obama administration said Aug. 30 it planned to
announce a proposal for an emergency loan program to help the
unemployed avoid default. The plan would also include a
government mortgage refinancing effort to lower monthly mortgage
payments for Americans facing foreclosure.  Orders at  KB Home , a California builder focused on first-
time buyers, fell 39 percent after the deadline for signing a
contract to qualify for the federal tax credit expired.
Unemployment and rising foreclosures make it difficult to
forecast future sales,  Jeffrey Mezger , the company’s chief
executive officer, said Sept. 24.  “The housing market continues to face significant
headwinds from high unemployment and foreclosures, which are
impeding a broader recovery, and recent net order trends in the
homebuilding industry have injected additional caution into our
near-term outlook,” Mezger said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington at 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  