-- U.S. Ban on Chinese Poultry Imports Violates Global Trade Rules, WTO Says
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2010-09-29T15:22:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/u-s-set-back-in-wto-case-that-challenged-ban-on-chinese-poultry-imports.html
U.S. restrictions on imports of
Chinese chicken, turkey and duck that are no longer in place
broke global commerce rules, the World Trade Organization said.  WTO judges in Geneva agreed with China that a congressional
spending bill preventing authorities from processing shipments
of cooked Chinese poultry unfairly closed the American market.
China, the third-biggest market for U.S. farm goods, called the
measure discriminatory and protectionist because its poultry met
international health standards and it was shipping chicken to
Europe and Japan.  The U.S. measure has expired, negating the need for judges
to order the Obama administration to bring the law into line
with WTO rules. Judges also  opted not to issue  a recommendation,
as China had requested, that the U.S. avoid language similar to
the disputed measure in future legislation “because these other
measures are outside our terms of reference.”  China, once the second-largest buyer of U.S. chicken, and
the U.S. outlawed each other’s poultry in 2004 after an outbreak
of bird flu. While China rescinded its ban, it now imposes
tariffs on chicken imports from U.S. producers such as  Tyson
Foods Inc. ,  Sanderson Farms Inc.  and  Pilgrim’s Pride Corp. , a
unit of Brazilian meat processor JBS SA, to counter what it
calls unfair subsidies for U.S. poultry farmers.  The Department of Agriculture partly lifted the ban in 2006
by permitting China to ship cooked poultry to the U.S. provided
it first imported the raw chicken from the U.S. or Canada. Even
so, members of Congress added a provision in an appropriations
bill, citing health concerns, that effectively prohibited the
import of chickens processed in China.  Fourth Complaint  Trade tensions between China and the U.S. span concerns
about product safety and agricultural health standards, American
complaints about lax protection of patents and copyrights and
calls for a stronger yuan. The complaint against U.S. poultry
restrictions was the fourth by China since it joined the WTO in
2001.  China had a record $266 billion  trade surplus  with the U.S.
in 2009, though it shrank 21 percent in the first seven months
of 2010 from a year earlier, Chinese customs bureau data show.
China is the third-largest market for U.S. exports, buying $70
billion worth of U.S.-made goods in 2008 compared with $19
billion in 2001.  China passed Canada in 2007 to become the largest source of
products shipped into the U.S., capping a six-year period when
its exports to the U.S. more than tripled. China is the biggest
overseas market for U.S. poultry, purchasing almost 800,000
metric tons valued at $722 million in 2008, according to the USA
Poultry & Egg Export Council.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jennifer M. Freedman  in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 