-- UAE's Etisalat Looking for Mergers, Acquisitions in India Within Next Year
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2010-09-29T04:29:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/uae-s-etisalat-looking-for-mergers-acquisitions-in-india-within-next-year.html
Emirates Telecommunications Corp.,
the United Arab Emirates’ biggest phone company, is in talks for
mergers and acquisitions with India’s  Reliance Communications
Ltd.  to expand in the world’s second-largest wireless market.  Etisalat was “studying opportunities for M&A” with
Reliance, India’s second-biggest cellular phone operator,
Chairman  Mohammed Omran  told Bloomberg News in Sydney today,
without elaborating. The company, based in Abu Dhabi, was also
talking to other operators about deals, aiming to forge
agreements within the next year, he said.  Purchasing a stake in an Indian cellular operator would
give the Middle East carrier, also known as Etisalat, a foothold
in a market set to approach 1 billion users, or more than three
times the population of the U.S.  Etisalat  said earlier this
month it’s considering investing in Idea Cellular Ltd., which
also provides mobile phone services in India.  Etisalat  received a license to operate in India in 2008 and
plans to offer cellular phone services in the nation’s 15
circles, or coverage areas, where it has a permit.  “In terms of customers, we’re at a very initial stage in
India, and we’re evaluating opportunities where we see value,”
Omran said.  Calls to  Gaurav Wahi , a spokesman for Reliance
Communications, weren’t answered.  Cutting Debt  Reliance Communications shares were unchanged at 170.2
rupees at 9:50 a.m. in Mumbai after earlier gaining as much as
1.5 percent.  The company, controlled by billionaire Chairman  Anil Ambani , will cut investment in capacity expansion as it aims to
be debt free in three years. Reliance will spend 30 billion
rupees ($669 million) in capital expenditure in the 12 months
ending in March after investing a combined 350 billion rupees in
the past three years, Ambani said in Mumbai yesterday.  Etisalat is also studying the resubmission of a proposal to
raise its stake in Indian venture Etisalat DB Telecom Pvt.,
which was initially rejected by India’s Foreign Investment
Promotion Board, Omran said. The carrier wants to increase its
stake in Etisalat DB Telecom Pvt. to 50 percent plus one share
from 44.73 percent, the company said in February.  India’s mobile phone market is forecast to exceed
993 million users by the end of 2014, researcher Gartner Inc.
said in a July 15 report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Elisabeth Behrmann  in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
 James Paton  in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  