-- UniCredit Shakeup Tightens Foundations' Grip on Banks
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2010-09-30T08:21:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/unicredit-shakeup-tightens-foundations-grip-on-italy-s-banks.html
The  management  shakeup at UniCredit
SpA, Italy’s largest bank, may serve to increase the influence
of Italy’s banking foundations, institutions that trace their
roots to the 17th century, and curb its international growth.  UniCredit ’s board may choose a successor to  Alessandro Profumo  as chief executive officer at a meeting in Warsaw today,
and create a general manager role to share the duties, two
people with knowledge of the matter said. The foundations, among
the Milan-based company’s largest investors, have said they
favor a general manager post to focus on local issues.  Profumo, architect of the bank’s $65 billion  expansion ,
stepped down last week after clashes with foundations that hold
more than 11 percent of UniCredit. The regional institutions,
which in total oversee 49 billion euros ($67 billion) of assets,
use money generated by their holdings in banks to fund
philanthropic programs at schools and museums. They are partly
run by politicians who advocate more investment at home.  “Italy will probably weigh more than before, and the
bank’s strategy will focus on consolidating rather than
expanding,” said  Mario Spreafico , chief investment officer at
Schroders Private Banking for Italy in Milan, where he oversees
about 1.5 billion euros. “The new CEO will have to create a
collaborative spirit with the shareholders through the board.”  Leading Candidates  Federico Ghizzoni , 54, one of the bank’s four deputy CEOs,
is the leading candidate for the CEO job after going head to
head for the position with  Roberto Nicastro , 45, another deputy
CEO, said the people, who spoke on condition of anonymity
because the selection process is private. Deputy CEO  Paolo Fiorentino , 54, is also in the running for the top roles, the
people said. A UniCredit official declined to comment.  The Wall Street Journal earlier reported Ghizzoni’s likely
nomination.  UniCredit’s biggest foundation  shareholders  are Fondazione
Cariverona, with a 4.6 percent stake, Fondazione CRT, which owns
3.3 percent, and Carimonte Holding SpA, which controls 3
percent. Officials at the foundations declined to comment. The
foundations at UniCredit, which control 9 of its 23 board seats,
are urging the bank to lend more in Italy to foster economic
growth and hiring following the financial crisis.  They are among the country’s 88 foundations, created two
decades ago when the philanthropic arms of Italy’s savings banks
were split from their lending operations to pave the way for the
industry’s privatization.  Northern League  Their growing clout is in part the result of April local
election victories by the Northern League, gains which the
party’s leader,  Umberto Bossi , said he would exploit to “seize
the banks.” The wins boosted the party’s control in the regions
of Piedmont, Lombardy and Veneto, and in turn their presence in
the bank foundations’ boards, which are made up of regional and
local government and church representatives.  Global banks have “lost touch with their land of origin,”
Northern League lawmaker Maurizio Fugatti said in a note
commenting on Profumo’s departure, posted on the party’s website
on Sept. 22. The political influence has raised concern among
some analysts and investors.  “It’s typically seen as desirable for banks to be widely
held because the concern is that large shareholders with
particular interests in mind influence banks to their own
benefit,” said  Colin Mayer , a finance professor at Oxford
University’s Said Business School in Oxford, England. “In
UniCredit’s case the regional holdings, through the foundations,
are directing the bank to favor political objectives.”  ‘Judging the Banks’  Supporting local communities through lending had formed the
basis of the mission of the nation’s savings banks, lenders
whose roots date as far back as 1624, when the Republic of Siena
granted “Monte Pio,” a philanthropic group, banking status.  More than 3 1/2 centuries later, in 1995,  Banca Monte dei
Paschi di Siena SpA  and Fondazione Monte dei Paschi split, and
the foundation sold shares in the bank to the public in 1999. It
retains a 46 percent  holding .  “The banks have been created and developed by
foundations,” said  Dino De Poli , chairman of Fondazione
Cassamarca, which owns 0.8 percent of UniCredit. “Foundations
play their shareholders’ role, addressing and judging the banks
at the appropriate time.”  The foundations, which backed the lenders through the
financial crisis, are also seeking payback.  Profumo seized on the opening of the European markets
brought on by the introduction of the euro to expand at home and
abroad. He turned regional bank Credito Italiano SpA, which he
took over in 1997, into UniCredit, the sixth-biggest lender in
the euro region, with 954.6 billion euros of assets at the end
of June.  Takeovers  left Profumo short of funds when confidence in
banks collapsed in 2008 and credit became scarce, forcing him to
 raise cash  from investors twice in 18 months. Relations with
some of the foundations soured after recent Libyan investments
in the lender.  Hands in Pocket  “Our foundations proved that when we were asked to put our
hands in our pocket -- and some were asked to repeat the
exercise over a short period of time -- we didn’t hesitate for a
moment,”  Giuseppe Guzzetti , chairman of Acri, the foundation
industry group, told reporters on Sept. 27.  We will continue to “strengthen our banking system in
support of the country’s output,” said Guzzetti, who also
chairs the second-biggest foundation, Fondazione Cariplo. He
declined to be interviewed for this article.  The foundations diversified their holdings over the years.
They control 30 percent of Italian state-lender Cassa Depositi e
Prestiti SpA, and have a 24 percent stake in F2i Sgr, an
infrastructure fund.  ‘Outside Pressures’  The foundations also hold art collections. Milan-based
Fondazione Cariplo, which gave about 211 million euros to
philanthropy in 2008, owns about 770 paintings including works
by Giovanni Battista Tiepolo and 115 sculptures including pieces
by Antonio Canova. In all, the foundations distributed 1.4
billion euros for philanthropic projects last year, according to
Acri.  “The financial crisis is the reason why bank profitability
is not what it was in the 1990s,” said Giuliano Segre, chairman
of Fondazione Venezia, which owns 0.6 percent of Milan-based
Intesa Sanpaolo SpA. “Some foundations want to affirm their
control, and it’s not clear if they’re acting in the best
interest of the investment, or relaying outside pressures.”  Segre, who plans to keep cutting the foundation’s Intesa
stake, said the foundations should exit the banks and instead
invest directly in businesses they support.  At UniCredit, which earns about 55 percent of its  revenue 
outside Italy, and  Intesa , which makes 22 percent of sales
abroad, reinvigorated foundations may inhibit growth, said  Paul Vrouwes , who helps oversee about 362 billion euros, including
UniCredit shares, at ING Investment Management in The Hague.  “The foundations’ power makes it problematic for Italian
financial firms to compete in a global context in general,”
said Vrouwes. “It may be a drain on performance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sonia Sirletti  in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net 
 Elisa Martinuzzi  in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  