-- UniCredit Said to Favor Internal Pick as CEO at Board Tomorrow
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2010-09-29T14:24:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/unicredit-board-said-to-favor-internal-candidate-to-replace-profumo-as-ceo.html
UniCredit SpA ’s board may choose an
internal candidate to replace  Alessandro Profumo  as chief
executive officer, and create a general manager role to share
duties, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  Roberto Nicastro  and  Federico Ghizzoni , two of the bank’s
four deputy CEOs, are the leading candidates for the CEO job,
said the people, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
selection process is private. Deputy CEO  Paolo Fiorentino  is
also in the running for the top positions, the people said. A
decision may be made at tomorrow’s board meeting in Warsaw.  Chairman  Dieter Rampl , 63, is under pressure by Italy’s
central bank to find a new CEO quickly and avoid a leadership
vacuum. Choosing a successor from inside the Milan-based bank
may assuage banking foundations, among the company’s largest
investors, which also want a general manager who would focus on
local issues, the people said. The new structure would bring
UniCredit in line with Italy’s No. 2 and No. 3 banks.  “We see an internal appointment positively because
UniCredit is a complex machine,” said  Angelo Manca , a fund
manager at Ockham Capital Partners in London who doesn’t hold
the bank’s shares. “A hands-on internal candidate with support
from the bank looks like the best choice.”  A UniCredit official declined to comment on the possible
appointments.  ‘Profumo Boys’  Nicastro and Ghizzoni, and the two other deputy CEOs,
Fiorentino and  Sergio Ermotti , have been dubbed “Profumo’s
boys” by the Italian media because the former CEO promoted them
through the management ranks.  Nicastro, 45, who’s considered the top CEO candidate,
according to the people, is a former McKinsey & Co. consultant,
like Profumo, and joined Credito Italiano as head of planning in
1997. In August 2003, he was appointed head of the bank’s retail
division and became one of the deputy CEOs in 2007.  Ghizzoni, 54, started his career at the bank in 1980 as a
customer relations manager for a branch in the northern city of
Piacenza. Over the next three decades, he ran UniCredit’s
foreign businesses from London to Istanbul, became head of its
Central Eastern Europe division in 2009 and was named a deputy
CEO last month.  Creating the general manager’s position would be part of a
corporate governance revamp and reduce the powers of the CEO.
 Dino De Poli , the chairman of Fondazione Cassamarca, which owns
a 0.8 percent stake in UniCredit, supports the new position and
favors an internal candidate because he would have greater
knowledge of the bank.  ‘Negative’ for Bank  “The creation of a general manager position is a maneuver
by Italian banking foundations,” said  Gianmaria Bergantino , who
helps manage 200 million euros at Bank Insinger de Beaufort in
Rome and doesn’t own UniCredit shares. “I would view the new
position as negative for the bank because it could slow down
board decisions.”  Intesa SanPaolo SpA , Italy’s second-biggest bank, and Monte
dei Paschi di Siena SpA, the third-largest, already have general
managers, who focus on daily operations.  Relations between Profumo and some of the foundations,
which own more than 11 percent of the bank, soured in the last
two years after he went to investors twice to boost capital. The
tension increased after Libyan investors raised their holdings,
ultimately forcing Profumo to quit at a Sept. 21 board meeting.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sonia Sirletti  in Milan at 
 sirletti@bloomberg.net 
 Elisa Martinuzzi  in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  