-- Murata to Eliminate 3,000 Temporary Jobs in Japan to Combat Yen's Strength
-- B y   A d a m   L e   a n d   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 2010-09-29T04:10:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/murata-to-eliminate-3-000-temporary-jobs-in-japan-to-combat-yen.html
Murata Manufacturing Co. , the maker
of a third of the world’s ceramic capacitors, devices used in
flat-panel televisions and smartphones, will eliminate most of
its temporary workforce and increase production overseas as the
Japanese yen’s strength forces it to reduce costs.  The company plans to cut its contract workforce to about
1,500 from 4,500 and will move some factory equipment abroad to
reach its target of 30 percent overseas production by fiscal
2012, President  Tsuneo Murata  said yesterday in an interview.
The company had 34,000 full-time workers worldwide as of March.  Companies such as  Toyota Motor Corp.  and Panasonic Electric
Works Co. are increasing production abroad to stay competitive
as the strong yen erodes profits. Japan this month intervened
for the first time since 2004 to weaken the yen after it rose to
a 15-year high against the U.S. dollar.  “Manufacturers in South Korea and other parts of Asia are
catching up technologically,” said  Akiko Yamaga , an analyst at
Mizuho Investors Securities Co. in Tokyo who has a “neutral
plus” rating on Murata. “If you stick too much to Japan, you
lose your competitive edge.”  The yen has gained almost 10 percent against the dollar
this year and traded at 83.81 as of 12:33 p.m. in Tokyo. A
stronger yen hurts overseas income at Japanese companies when
converted into their home currency.  Capacitor Leader  “We have to reduce the number of temporary workers in
Japan,” said Murata, whose grandfather  started  the company in
Kyoto in 1944 as a manufacturer of radio parts. “We never
thought the yen would become this strong.”  The company is now the world’s biggest  maker  of ceramic
capacitors, devices that regulate electrical current, and
employed as many as 5,000 temporary workers before the 2008
financial crisis sapped demand for electronic parts.  In Japan, temporary employees are workers sent by agencies
to fill positions and don’t have the same rights as regular
company employees. The cuts would bring the number of domestic
temporary workers back to the same level as immediately after
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., according to
Murata, 59.  Murata said there was “no choice” but to move the
company’s automated production machines to plants in China and
Thailand, where operating and personnel costs are lower.  “We want to expand overseas production in line with the
targets in our three-year plan,” he said.  The company manufactures about 15 percent of its products
overseas and will begin production at a new Chinese plant for
capacitors in Wuxi, Jiangsu Province, from April next year,
according to Harumi Sekiguchi, a spokeswoman for the company.  Return to Profit  Murata in July reported net income of 15.5 billion yen
($184 million) for the three months ended June 30, compared with
a loss of 3.67 billion yen a year earlier, as sales surged 31
percent. It raised its profit forecast for the year ending March
by 18 percent to 52 billion yen.  The stock rose 1.4 percent to 4,410 yen as of 12:51 p.m. on
the Osaka Securities Exchange. It has gained 7.3 percent in the
past 12 months, compared with a 5.3 percent decrease in Japan’s
Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Le  in Osaka at 
 ale14@bloomberg.net ;
 Masatsugu Horie  in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Drew Gibson in Osaka at 
 dgibson2@bloomberg.net . 