-- Erdogan Rivals Ataturk's Influence as Turkish Economy Grows
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2010-09-29T21:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/turkey-taking-economy-higher-lets-erdogan-push-ataturk-changes.html
The more Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  and his Islamist-rooted party run against
Turkey’s once-dominant authority of secular judges and generals,
the more he is looking like the country’s most influential
leader since its founder,  Mustafa Kemal Ataturk .  Where Ataturk inspired his supporters -- in Anatolia’s
mostly Muslim interior -- to oust the Greeks, British and French
from the remnants of the defeated Ottoman Empire, Erdogan is
wresting power from the institutions that have seen themselves
as guardians of Ataturk’s legacy since his death in 1938.  After winning a referendum on Sept. 12 giving the
government more influence over the country’s courts and army,
Erdogan says he wants to draft a new  Turkish constitution . The
man appointed to lead that push,  Burhan Kuzu , is an advocate of
a U.S.-style presidential system, which Erdogan also supports.  “The amount of change under Erdogan is transformational,”
said  Omer Taspinar , director of the Turkey Project at the
Brookings Institution in Washington. The presidential model “is
something that the opponents of Erdogan are posing as a threat
to Turkey: An autocratic system is on the rise, ‘This guy is
dangerous,’” he said.  At the same time, “there are fewer journalists in jail,
more freedom of expression,” Taspinar said. “It’s a  richer  and
freer country.”  Erdogan, 56, would become Turkey’s first non-military
leader to write a new  constitution  since Ataturk in 1924.
Ataturk presented the statute after defeating an invading Greek
army, expelling British and French occupying forces, sending the
remnants of the ruling Ottoman family into exile, abolishing the
centuries-old title of Islamic Caliph that they held, and
declaring his new state a secular republic.  Washington and Lincoln  “Ataturk won a war,” Taspinar said. “He was  George Washington  and  Abraham Lincoln  rolled into one.”  Ataturk introduced an  alphabet  based on Latin script to
replace the Arabic one. He also promoted women’s rights, brought
religious education under state control and encouraged Turks to
wear European styles of dress, through such means as executing
those who refused.  His portrait appears on the wall of every Turkish
government office and many corporate ones. More than 70 years
after his death, it remains a criminal offense to insult his
memory.  A presidential bid by Erdogan would fuel charges leveled at
the premier by opposition leaders such as  Gursel Tekin , deputy
head of the Republican People’s Party. They say the premier is
reshaping Turkey in line with his Islamic religious beliefs,
eroding the secular structures created by Ataturk.  Polarizing Turkey?  Erdogan and his Justice and Development, or Ak,  Party  have
polarized the country, showing he isn’t the right leader to draw
up a new constitution whose goal should be to unite it, Tekin
said in an interview.  “Something as important as a constitution has to be done
with the agreement and support of the people,” he said on Sept.
22 in Ankara. “The Ak Party doesn’t behave like that. They make
it in the kitchen, and then serve it to you and dictate that you
eat it.”  Ataturk frequently described his goal as raising Turkey to
“the level of modern civilization.” Under Erdogan, the nation
is wealthier than ever and the premier says he has expanded
Turkey’s influence in the region, bolstered the powers of civil
authorities over the army and brought human rights closer to
European Union standards.  Investment Boom  His government has broken records for attracting  foreign
investment  and curbing  inflation . Annual economic  growth  in the
first five years of Ak Party rule, before the global crisis
began to curb output in 2008, averaged 7 percent.  Companies such as U.K. telecommunications operator  Vodafone
Group Plc  and New York-based  Citigroup Inc.  helped fuel the
boom, buying Turkish units amid a surge in demand created by
lower borrowing costs. Annualized economic growth rates exceeded
10 percent in each of the first two quarters this year and the
 ISE-100 stock index  has risen more than 24 percent.  Kuzu, speaking in a Sept. 21 interview in an Istanbul
patisserie, compared the performance with a historical pattern
of spurts in development under Prime Ministers  Adnan Menderes  in
the 1950s,  Suleyman Demirel  in the 1960s, and  Turgut Ozal  -- to
whom Kuzu served as an adviser -- in the 1980s.  The advances weren’t sustained because those single-party
governments were either ousted by generals, or lost their
majorities and were replaced by unstable and  spendthrift 
coalitions, Kuzu said. A presidential system can help avoid a
relapse into that kind of boom-and-bust cycle, he said.  Single-Party Government  “Growth rates were high in those periods,” Kuzu said.
“It’s not because these men were somehow superhuman. I think
it’s because they were in power on their own.”  Single-party administrations have governed for about 30
years since 1950 when Turkey first allowed  multi-party
elections , and multi-party coalitions or regimes headed by the
army led for other three decades.  The economy grew at an average annual rate of 5.8 percent
under the former type of rule and 3.8 percent under the latter,
according to calculations based on statistics from the  State
Planning Organization . That’s a gap of almost $14 billion a year
at current levels of gross domestic product.  Single-party governments also have initiated changes in
foreign policy. Turkey joined the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization under Menderes, applied to enter the EU under Ozal
and started formal membership talks with the bloc during
Erdogan’s first term in office in 2005.  NATO Membership  Erdogan’s foreign policy since that landmark has sometimes
dismayed Turkey’s Western allies. He signed energy agreements
with Iran, brokered a nuclear fuel deal with the Islamic
republic that was criticized by the U.S., weakened Turkey’s
decades-old security alliance with Israel by attacking its
policies toward Palestinians and invited Islamist leaders from
Hamas and Sudan to Ankara.  At home, Erdogan sought to criminalize adultery and lift a
ban on Islamic headscarves at universities. The first measure
was abandoned after EU criticism and the second was blocked by
courts. The constitutional changes approved this month allow
civil trials for military personnel and make it harder for the
army to expel officers suspected of Islamism.  Erdogan can point to an  electoral mandate  for his policies
that rivals any of his predecessors. The Ak Party was re-elected
in 2007 with 47 percent of the vote, the biggest share for any
party since 1965. Since coming to power, the party has won two
nationwide local elections and two popular votes on amending the
constitution.  Electoral Success  Erdogan rejects charges that he has departed from Ataturk’s
secular vision and sought to impose Islamic values, saying that
accusation has been leveled at him throughout his career,
without supporting evidence.  “It’s as if the Ak Party hasn’t been in power for eight
years,” he told a party meeting in Ankara on Sept. 24, speaking
against a backdrop of giant pictures of himself and Ataturk.
“They’re still trying to play the same old game.”  Without backing from competing parties for a new
constitution, Erdogan probably would be forced to put the text
to an “extremely polarizing” referendum, in which opponents
would campaign against creating on the dangers of dictatorship
and Islamism under an Erdogan presidency, Taspinar said.  “There’s a power struggle in Turkey between the old elite
and the new elite, and the old elite are scaremongering to say
that a civil war is coming and that Erdogan will turn Turkey
into Iran,” he said. “People who say he’s the most significant
leader since Ataturk aren’t saying it in a praiseful way. They
say it in the sense of, ‘Don’t you realize the danger? Can’t you
see how powerful this guy is becoming?’”  Popular Vote  The president, who now has largely ceremonial powers, will
be chosen by popular election for the first time 1as early as
2012 under a change passed by Erdogan’s government and approved
in a referendum three years ago. Previous presidents were chosen
by a parliamentary vote.  Abdullah Gul , the current incumbent and
longtime Erdogan ally, said this month that any increase in
presidential powers should be managed carefully to lessen fears
of autocracy.  “What we’re going to get is a prolonged discussion, with
the prime minister taking the lead,” said  Bulent Aliriza ,
director of the Turkey project at the Center for Strategic and
International Studies in Washington. “If the economy holds up,
he is clearly the frontrunner.”  Erdogan’s success in changing the constitution and the
political system would cement his legacy as one of two elected
leaders since Ataturk who have done most to change Turkey,
according to Aliriza and Taspinar. The other they cite is Ozal,
who led Turkey’s transformation in the 1980s into a market-based
economy open to international investment and competition.  Erdogan’s achievements will exceed Ozal’s assuming he can
push through a new constitution, Kuzu said.  “For the president to be elected by the public, for the
civil-military balance to be improved, these are all things that
Ozal wanted,” he said. “But we’re the ones who were able to
achieve them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Benjamin Harvey  in Ankara at 
 Bharvey11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 