-- Vale Says Iron Ore Consumption Growth May Resume
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-09-29T18:07:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/vale-says-china-s-iron-ore-demand-unaffected-by-power-closures.html
Vale SA , the world’s biggest
exporter of iron ore, said demand growth for the steelmaking
ingredient may resume at the end of the year after the Chinese
government tackled overcapacity in its steel industry.  “Demand is good,”  Jose Carlos Martins , executive director
of sales, marketing and strategy, told reporters in Dalian,
China, today. “We see this stable market for two to three
months, until we grow again. We need to prepare for the growth
from the end of this year, beginning of next year.”  The Chinese government limited power supply to steelmakers
and asked companies to shut obsolete plants this month, trimming
output in the world’s biggest producer, to meet energy targets
and curb overproduction. China’s iron ore  imports  fell the most
in seven months in August.  “We have no impact from these measures,” Martins said.
“The measures that the Chinese government is taking to control
energy consumption and carbon emission already affected
production, but the impact was not that big.”  Spot iron-ore prices  dropped 6 percent since Aug. 17,
according to the Steel Index. China is the biggest buyer of the
steelmaking raw material.  “Prices are robust and globally the business is doing just
fine,”  Ernie Lalonde , senior vice president of mining for
Toronto-based credit rating company DBRS Ltd, said today in a
telephone interview. Producers “have all the reasons to be
happy,” he said.  Iron Ore Prices  Vale, Rio Tinto Group and BHP Billiton Ltd., the three
biggest exporters of iron ore, this year abandoned a 40-year
custom of setting prices annually in favor of quarterly
contracts. “The system is not perfect, but it’s working,”
Martins said in Dalian, where he is participating in the  10th
China International Steel & Raw Materials Conference .  “Customers are fulfilling their contracts,” he said. “It
seems the price is good because otherwise the customers would go
to spot.” Vale doesn’t expect “big changes” to the way iron
ore is priced, Martins said.  Mining companies and steelmakers should seek a better
pricing system,  Shan Shanghua , general secretary of the China
Iron and Steel Association, said yesterday. Pricing the ore
based on indexes doesn’t accurately reflect the Chinese market,
he said.  Vale has “a lot of initiatives” to keep costs under
control as the strengthening of the Brazilian real makes
investment in the country more expensive in dollar terms,
Martins said. “The stronger Brazilian currency is really an
issue when we talk about investments,” he said.  Investment Plans  The real today rose to the strongest level against the U.S.
dollar since November, extending a rally to 36 percent since the
end of 2008. The real’s rally has to be managed “in order to
avoid the negative impact,” Martins said.  “If a strong real makes investments more expensive, that
presents a challenge but margins are also going up,” Lalonde
said. “The big problem is when you have a strong currency with
a declining commodity price,” he said from Toronto.  Vale may invest a combined $68 billion in 27 projects over
the next five years,  Felipe Hirai  and  Thiago Lofiego , Bank of
America analysts based in Sao Paulo, said in a note Sept. 2. The
Rio de Janeiro-based miner is expected to announce its 2011
investment plans next month.  Distribution Centers  Vale is considering setting up distribution centers in the
Middle East and Southeast Asia, Martins said. A plan to set up
one in Qingdao, China, is awaiting regulatory approval, he said.  The company has also started its application to list
depositary receipts in Hong Kong, Martins said. Should Shanghai
open its market for foreign companies to list, Vale will also
consider a listing in the Chinese city, he said.  Vale last week said it wanted exposure to Asian capital
markets when it announced its plans for Hong Kong.  “The idea of listing in Hong Kong was a way to bring an
alternative for Chinese investors in Vale,” Martins said. “As
Shanghai creates conditions for listing, we also could consider
it. But for the time being, I think it’s a big step to list our
company on the Hong Kong stock exchange.”  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in London at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs in Sydney at 
 ahobbs@bloomberg.net ;
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  