-- Vivendi, Vodafone May Find `Stars Aligned' for SFR Transaction
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2010-09-30T16:27:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/vivendi-vodafone-may-find-stars-aligned-for-deal-on-mobile-operator-sfr.html
Vivendi SA  may accelerate efforts
to buy  Vodafone Group Plc’s  44 percent stake in French mobile
operator SFR after securing $2 billion from an asset sale
this week.  The owner of the world’s biggest music and video games
companies collected its first payment from a $5.8 billion sale
of its 20 percent holding in media group NBC Universal to
 General Electric Co.   Vivendi Chief Executive Officer  Jean-Bernard Levy 
reiterated this month that the Paris-based company is keen to
buy out Vodafone’s stake in SFR, valued by analysts at as much
as 9 billion euros ($12.3 billion). Vodafone is speeding up
asset sales, with Chief Executive Officer  Vittorio Colao  on
Sept. 9 taking charge of a new unit pooling minority interests.  “The stars are aligned” for a transaction, said  Conor O’Shea , an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets in Paris. “The
start of proceeds from NBC Universal is concentrating minds.”  The purchase of the rest of SFR, which analysts value at
between 6 and 9 billion euros, would let Vivendi take full
control of its largest unit. Vodafone would get more resources
to focus on emerging-market expansion. With both companies
looking for a deal, an agreement will come down to finding a
price that each can present as a win for shareholders.  “You need both of them to be able to declare victory in a
realistic way,” said  Claudio Aspesi , an analyst at Sanford
Bernstein in London.  Vivendi’s Cash Cow  Vivendi spokesman  Antoine Lefort  declined to comment, as
did Vodafone spokesman  Simon Gordon . The French company’s shares
rose 0.6 percent to 20.05 euros in Paris trading, while Vodafone
fell 0.9 percent to 157.1 pence in London.  Based on a valuation of 5.5 times SFR’s earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, Vodafone’s share
of the unit is worth about 8.5 billion euros, said  Alex Wisch ,
an analyst at Standard & Poor’s Equity Research in London.  Vodafone, the world’s largest mobile operator, may ask for
more as compensation for the possibility that Vivendi will turn
SFR into a European competitor, Wisch said. SFR is France’s
second-biggest mobile operator after France Telecom SA’s Orange.  SFR is Vivendi’s cash cow, generating  more than half  of the
company’s total Ebitda last year, or about 4 billion euros. It
has managed to hang on to customers and sales in the maturing
French mobile market. First-half revenue at SFR increased 1.8
percent to 6.25 billion euros, even after new regulations cut
tariffs. Excluding the tariff measures, sales rose 6.1 percent.  Full Control  Getting full control of “the cash flow that this enormous
machine is generating” is the primary motive for Vivendi to
proceed with an acquisition, Wisch said. “It’s a very good
asset in France, with an entrenched market position.”  According to the terms of its December 2009 agreement to
exit NBC Universal, Vivendi will get the rest of the payment
after a related GE deal to sell the media group to Comcast Corp.
is cleared by U.S. regulators. GE CEO  Jeffrey Immelt  said this
month the sale is expected to be completed by year-end.  Vodafone has meanwhile put all its assets under review amid
pressure from shareholders including the Ontario Teachers’
Pension Plan to draw more value from its minority stakes. Colao
told analysts in July that he would increase focus on three
“priority areas”: Europe, sub-Saharan Africa and India.  Vodafone will forfeit its  annual dividend  from SFR if it
sells the stake. The company received 389 million pounds ($614
million), or about 5.4 percent of its annual cash flow, from the
holding in the year ended March, according to its annual report.  Higher Dividend  Vodafone stands to gain higher dividends from 2012, after
it previously agreed with Vivendi to lower payments for three
years following SFR’s purchase of operator Neuf Cegetel in 2008.  CEO Colao this month made his biggest disposal since taking
over the top job at the company in 2008, selling Vodafone’s 3.2
percent stake in China Mobile Ltd. for $6.5 billion.  Selling the SFR stake now would also give Vodafone a chance
to make a deal before the entry of a fourth operator complicates
the French mobile-phone market.  Iliad SA , a discount broadband provider, is planning to
launch a mobile-phone service called Free Mobile in 2012 and has
pledged to bring down prices in a country where charges for
phone services are relatively high.  A high-usage mobile subscription currently costs about
$604 a year in France, compared with $282 in the U.K. and $465
in Italy, according to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation
and Development.  Right Timing  With the entry of Free, “the French telecoms market is
going to get a lot tougher in the next 12 to 18 months” making
it wise for Vodafone to sell now, said  Mark James , an analyst at
Liberum Capital in London.  SFR,  France Telecom SA ’s Orange unit, and  Bouygues SA ’s
Bouygues Telecom have all unveiled so-called quadruple play
offers that combine mobile, fixed-line, broadband and television
services, ahead of Free’s entry into the market.  The confluence of events may make the timing right for both
Vodafone and Vivendi to head toward a deal on SFR, said Kepler
Capital’s O’Shea.  “The noises coming out are quite promising,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Campbell  in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net  