-- Voting on Bush Tax Cuts Divides Democrats Before Election Day
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2010-09-29T19:20:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/voting-on-bush-tax-cuts-divides-democrats-in-congress-before-election-day.html
Democrats worried about defending
congressional majorities and divided over extending income-tax
cuts are delaying a vote on the issue until after Election Day.
Party strategists warn they are missing an opportunity to define
themselves against Republicans.  After Senate Democrats postponed action on President  Barack Obama ’s proposal to extend middle-class tax cuts until after the
Nov. 2 election, a member of House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi ’s
leadership team announced today that chamber also will not vote
this week.  “We’ll have to get this done later this year,” said
Representative  Chris Van Hollen  of Maryland. “But we will get
middle-class tax relief done, for sure, 100 percent.”  Many Democrats have been nervous about a tax vote becoming
a campaign issue. Still, Democratic consultants such as  Bill Carrick  say the party is missing an opportunity to draw a clear
line between the parties, with Republicans holding out for tax
relief for higher-income Americans and most Democrats siding
with keeping the tax cuts only for the middle-class.  “A lot of folks are worried, particularly Democrats in
swing districts, that somebody is going to say they voted to
raise taxes” if they don’t support cuts for all income levels,
Carrick said. “The blunt instrument of a 30-second campaign
spot makes people get scared” of Republican attack ads, he
said.  Expiring Dec. 31  Income-tax cuts enacted under former President  George W. Bush  are set to expire Dec. 31. Obama and most Democrats favor
extending them for individuals earning up to $200,000 a year and
couples earning up to $250,000 and allowing reductions for
higher-income Americans to lapse. They say the U.S. can’t afford
tax cuts for top earners amid record budget deficits.  Republicans and some Democrats want to extend the tax cuts
for all income levels, arguing that letting taxes go up for the
top earners would hurt job-creation. At least five Democrats in
the Senate and 40 of 41 Republicans say lower rates should be
extended across-the-board; Republican  George Voinovich  of Ohio
has said he won’t vote to extend any tax cuts that aren’t paid
for. In the House, 31 Democrats have spoken in favor of keeping
all the tax cuts, the position the Republican leadership takes.  House Republicans today challenged Democrats to allow a
vote on extending all the tax cuts, arguing that inaction
perpetuates business uncertainty that is stifling job growth.  ‘Irresponsible’  “It’s irresponsible for them to leave town without giving
us a fair, up-or-down vote,” House Minority Leader  John Boehner 
of Ohio told reporters.  The National Republican Congressional Committee went on the
attack after today’s announcement by Van Hollen. In a press
release, the committee said Georgia Democratic Representative
 Sanford Bishop  is “ready to bolt without calling for an open
and fair debate” on the tax cuts.  Bishop is one of the 31 Democrats who back a short-term
extension of all tax cuts. Spokesman Ashton McRae said in an e-
mail that while Bishop “would have preferred” a vote this week,
it was apparent that leaders couldn’t agree on how to proceed.  Last week, Pelosi suggested members might vote on middle-
class tax cuts this week before leaving Washington to campaign.
Two days later, House Majority Leader  Steny Hoyer  said that
would be a “specious act” without the chance of a Senate vote.  Pelosi favored a vote this week to sharpen the contrast
between Democrats and Republicans, said leadership aides who
spoke on condition of anonymity. Her supporters said it would
let Democrats draw distinctions with Republicans not just on
taxation but also on which party would do more to cut the
deficit and which party supports the most well-off people.  Individual Democrat’s View  An individual Democrat’s view on whether to vote on taxes
before the election “depends on what state or district you
happen to be from,” said Indiana Senator  Evan Bayh , a Democrat
who decided not to seek re-election this year.  “There are some people who come from very liberal
districts who want to send a message that they’re not for
extending tax cuts, particularly for people who have been
successful,” Bayh said in an interview. “Then there’s some
others who come from more conservative places” who want “to
extend the tax cuts.”  Carrick said Pelosi’s strategy would force Republicans to
choose between extending only middle-class tax cuts and
insisting on tax relief also for the most well-off Americans.  “It’s better to do something edgy and take a little risk
and try to avert getting really clocked” in the election,
Carrick said.  ‘Missed Opportunity’  Failure to vote on tax cuts this week would be a “missed
opportunity” for Democrats, pollster  John Anzalone  said in a
telephone interview. “The reality is that voters want to see
whose side you’re on, and this does it.”  In a Sept. 15 memo to fellow Democrats, Anzalone cited a
CBS-New York Times  poll  showing that 53 percent of voters favor
letting the tax cuts for the wealthiest 2 percent of Americans
expire. He cautioned that Democrats “must be exceedingly
disciplined in their messaging” on the issue.  Party members were already disagreeing over tax cuts when
Anzalone sent his memo. Thirty-one House Democrats led by  Jim Matheson  of Utah,  Melissa Bean  of Illinois and  Glenn Nye  of
Virginia, who faces a close re-election fight, said in a Sept.
15 letter to Pelosi that raising “any taxes right now could
negatively impact economic growth.”  They urged a one-year extension of all the Bush-era tax
cuts.  Tax on Dividends  In a letter this week, 47 House Democrats led by  John Adler 
of New Jersey, also in a tough re-election contest, opposed
Obama’s proposal to raise the 15 percent tax rate on dividends
and most capital gains for high-income Americans when the rate
expires Dec. 31.  Asked yesterday about the internal debate, Hoyer told
reporters that Pelosi and all Democrats “are in absolute
agreement” that there will be no tax increase on the first
$200,000 of all individuals’ income and none “on the first
$250,000 of every American family’s income, period.”  “That objective is being held hostage in the Senate” by
Republicans, Hoyer said. “If we thought we could get it through
the Senate, absolutely we would act and we might well act
anyway” before Congress leaves Washington this week.  Senator  Jay Rockefeller , a West Virginia Democrat, said it
makes little difference whether Congress votes now or after the
election.  “I am not sure that people would even know whether we did
or didn’t” vote to extend tax cuts because it would be drowned
out in the heat of the campaign, Rockefeller said.  Political science professor  Alan Abramowitz  of Emory
University in Atlanta said a pre-election vote on tax cuts
“might make a marginal difference and help a few endangered
Democrats.”  Still, he said “nothing is going to make a big
difference” because “the mood of the electorate is pretty
negative” about the economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Rowley  in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  