-- VW's 200-Model Empire Competes With Itself as Ford, GM Shrink
-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 2010-09-30T12:06:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/vw-s-200-model-empire-risks-competing-with-itself-as-ford-gm-shed-brands.html
Volkswagen AG ’s goal to surpass
 Toyota Motor Corp.  in sales and profitability by turning out
more models and building cars on shared underbodies is stoking
unwanted competition among its own brands.  VW’s strategy allows Europe’s biggest carmaker to build a
wider range of models across brand lines at a cheaper price by
using the same engines and components. It also means customers
may opt to spend less money and buy a car from the  Skoda  and
Seat units instead of the more expensive VW brand.  “I specifically came here to look for a VW but Skoda is so
much cheaper,” said Manfred Hennerkes, a factory mechanic at
 Siemens AG , taking a seat in a Skoda Superb at the carmaker’s
showroom on Berlin’s Unter den Linden boulevard. “I don’t care
about the nameplate, it’s essentially a VW for great money.”  VW, which is merging with  Porsche SE , is seeking to
overtake Toyota by 2018 by expanding sales and a line-up of
about 200 models across its nine brands. It’s a strategy that
contributed to record losses at U.S. rivals  General Motors Co. 
and  Ford Motor Co.  before they reversed course to reduce the
number of brands and shed divisions.  “VW is becoming quite complex,” said  Anil Valsan ,
director of automotive research at London-based Frost &
Sullivan. “It remains to be seen to what extent VW can afford
some of its brands cannibalizing each other.”  Skoda, Seat  Volkswagen’s preferred shares fell 83 cents, or 0.9
percent, to 89.12 euros as of 2:04 p.m. in Frankfurt. The stock
is up 36 percent this year, valuing the carmaker at 39 billion
euros ($53.2 billion)  VW is losing 500 million euros in profit every year as the
namesake brand’s customers flock to cheaper Skoda and Seat
models, according to an estimate by  Ferdinand Dudenhoeffer ,
director of the Center for Automotive Research at the University
of Duisburg-Essen.  The unwanted crossover between Skoda and VW brand models
contributed to Skoda chief  Reinhard Jung  losing his position to
 Winfried Vahland , previously head of VW’s China unit,
Dudenhoeffer said.  “VW’s problem is they afford too many brands in respective
segments and want the brands to cover large spectrums,” he
said. “Skoda has done an excellent job at exploring the vast
technology of VW. But they have developed a bit of a life of
their own now. That hasn’t escaped Winterkorn.”  Alfa Romeo Interest  Chief Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn  intends to
integrate Porsche, maker of the 911 sports car, into VW’s
modular strategy under Porsche CEO  Matthias Mueller , VW’s former
chief product strategist, who took over last night. Winterkorn
also plans to forge a trucks alliance between  Scania AB  and  MAN
SE , and develop small cars with Suzuki Motor Corp. after buying
a 19.9 percent stake.  And VW isn’t done with expansion yet. The German company is
still interested in buying the Alfa Romeo brand from  Fiat SpA ,
supervisory board Chairman  Ferdinand Piech  told reporters late
yesterday on the eve of the Paris Motor Show. Fiat has no
intention to sell Alfa, CEO  Sergio Marchionne  said today.  Ford and GM are taking the opposite tack. Ford, the second-
biggest U.S. carmaker, may trim its product lineup to as few as
20 models, CEO  Alan Mulally  said this week. Ford sold Volvo Cars
in August after previously divesting Jaguar, Land Rover and
Aston Martin. GM, preparing for an initial public offering a
year after a U.S. government bailout, sold Saab in February and
has closed its Hummer, Saturn and Pontiac units.  ‘Feet on the Ground’  “We’re aware that we have set a fast pace,” Winterkorn,
63, said in an interview last night at an event to showcase
the Wolfsburg, Germany-based carmaker’s offerings. “But we
still have both feet planted very firmly on the ground. We have
the experience and the skill to manage a multi-brand group of
this format well.”  Volkswagen may achieve its annual sales goal of 10 million
vehicles before the planned target of 2018 after nine-month
deliveries exceeded 5 million for the first time, sales chief
 Christian Klingler  told reporters today. Klingler raised his
forecast for industrywide growth in 2010 to as much as 7
percent, and said VW may outperform the global market.  Multi-brand groups like VW are naturally at risk of over-
expanding, though VW has developed a cost-saving strategy to run
its portfolio, said  Juergen Meyer , who manages 1 billion euros
at SEB Asset Management in Frankfurt including Porsche shares.
The extent of the group’s other units encroaching on core VW
brand buyers is minor, and competition within the VW group is
preferable to losing customers to rivals, he added.  Porsche, Lamborghini  Stuttgart, Germany-based Porsche will be vying with Audi
and Lamborghini, the Italian maker of the $450,000 Murcielago
SuperVeloce sports car, within VW to develop high-end sports
cars, said  Christoph Stuermer , an analyst at IHS Automotive in
Frankfurt. Mueller’s task will be to complement and expand
Porsche’s four-model lineup with a goal of doubling sales to
150,000 units, Winterkorn said July 6.  “The challenge for VW will be that modular-design policies
won’t work for supercars,” Stuermer said. “Lamborghini and
Porsche have no choice but to stake out their differences. This
somewhat exposes the limits of the VW philosophy.”  VW, which posted a first-half net income of 1.82 billion
euros, must turn around the loss-making Spanish Seat unit and
Bentley ultra-luxury brand, as well as return the U.S.
operations to profit to keep the profit momentum going.  “VW’s well positioned but there’s anything but reason for
complacency,” said  Stefan Bratzel , director of the Center of
Automotive at the University of Applied Sciences in Bergisch-
Gladbach, Germany.  Skoda Buyer  Back in Berlin, Hennerkes is looking to sell his Golf
station wagon and buy a Skoda. Built on a single platform,
Skoda’s Superb station wagon sells for 2,500 euros less than
VW’s Passat model while the Fabia compact is 1,695 euros less
expensive than VW’s Polo.  “The Superb is effectively a Passat with a lower profit
margin,” the 52-year-old German said. “It begs the question
why VW is doing this?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andreas Cremer  in Paris via 
 acremer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 