-- Wal-Mart Names Holley to Succeed Schoewe as CFO
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2010-09-29T22:28:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/wal-mart-names-holley-to-succeed-schoewe-as-finance-chief.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  is promoting
 Charles Holley  to chief financial officer, replacing  Tom Schoewe 
as the world’s biggest retailer shakes up its executive ranks.  The change takes effect Nov. 30, and Schoewe will stay on
until Jan. 31 to assist with the transition, the Bentonville,
Arkansas-based company said today in a statement. Holley, who
currently serves as treasurer, joined Wal-Mart in 1994.  Wal-Mart in late June appointed  William Simon  to replace
 Eduardo Castro-Wright  as U.S. stores chief, and chief
merchandising officer John Fleming departed in August. Earlier
this month, Simon filled out his merchandising team by naming
four executives to handle various product categories.  Holley “was the CFO for a good long run at international,
which is the growth engine of the company,” said  Ric Comins ,
managing director and retail practice leader at Philadelphia-
based executive search firm Diversified Search Odgers Berndtson.
“He had a lot of involvement in the Asda acquisition, which was
their most successful.”  The company acquired U.K. retailer Asda Group for about
$11 billion in 1999.  Wal-Mart is set to lay out its capital-spending plans for
2011 at an investor conference in Bentonville next month. Some
analysts expect the company to discuss progress in developing
smaller stores in the U.S. that may penetrate urban markets.  “The problem with Wal-Mart is they have reached the law of
large numbers, especially in the U.S.,” said  Tim Hoyle ,
director of research at Haverford Investments in Philadelphia,
which has $6 billion under management including Wal-Mart shares.
“As a shareholder, we would appreciate more of a focus on
dividends. We’ve been concerned with some of their capital
allocation decisions.”  International Experience  Holley, 54, has served in several roles, including finance
chief of Wal-Mart’s international division, which now comprises
about 25 percent of total sales. He previously worked at
companies including Ernst & Young and the predecessor to
RadioShack Corp.  He is gaining financial oversight of a company whose  sales
growth  has slowed for three straight years, dragged down by a
deepening economic slump and a decision to reduce the number of
items on shelves. Sales at U.S. stores open at least a year have
declined for five consecutive quarters.  Earlier this week, Wal-Mart said it plans to buy South
African retailer Massmart Holdings Ltd. in a transaction valued
at about $4.6 billion to gain a foothold in sub-Saharan Africa,
where it currently has no stores.  Wal-Mart declined 47 cents to $53.35 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The  shares  are little
changed this year.  Schoewe, 57, joined Wal-Mart a decade ago after spending
14 years at Black & Decker. Wal-Mart spokesman  David Tovar  said
neither Schoewe nor Holley was available to comment. Holley’s
successor will be named “at a later date,” Tovar said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Boyle  in New York at 
 Mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  