-- Waxman Says He Lacks Backing for Net-Neutrality Bill
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2010-09-29T21:56:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/waxman-says-he-lacks-republican-backing-in-house-for-net-neutrality-bill.html
U.S. House Democrats failed to win
Republican support needed for legislation giving regulators
temporary authority over how companies led by  Comcast Corp.  and
 AT&T Inc . provide Web service, Representative  Henry Waxman  said.  A measure that would let the U.S. Federal Communications
Commission enforce net-neutrality rules for two years won’t be
introduced immediately, Waxman, a California Democrat and
chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, said today
in an e-mailed statement.  “This development is a loss for consumers and a gain only
for the extremes,” Waxman said. “We need to break the deadlock
on net neutrality.”  The bill aimed to ensure the FCC has the power that was
called into question when a U.S. court in April ruled it lacked
authority over Internet-service providers.  At issue is whether the FCC may write rules to guarantee
net neutrality, or that Internet-service providers can’t impede
subscribers’ access to certain content while favoring their own.  President  Barack Obama  made it a campaign issue and calls
himself a “big believer” in the concept. Cable and phone
companies that provide Internet service say rules may interfere
with their ability to manage their networks and limit investment
in new Internet capacity.  Republican Opposition  Republican leaders decided “there is not sufficient time
to ensure that Chairman Waxman’s proposal will keep the Internet
open without chilling innovation,” Representative  Joe Barton  of
Texas, the top Republican on the committee, said in an e-mailed
statement. Congress is to adjourn within days to campaign for
the Nov. 2 elections.  “It is not appropriate to give the FCC authority to
regulate the Internet,” Barton said  The bill may be introduced after the elections, Waxman
said.  The measure would restore the FCC’s authority to prevent
the blocking of Internet content, bar phone and cable companies
from unjustly or unreasonably discriminating against any lawful
Internet traffic, and apply strictures to wireless providers,
Waxman said.  “Under our proposal, the FCC could begin enforcing these
open Internet rules immediately, with maximum fines increased
from $75,000 to $2,000,000 for violations,” Waxman said.  FCC Chairman  Julius Genachowski  in September 2009 proposed
rules aimed at ensuring net neutrality. He hasn’t sought a vote
while the commission considers its reaction to the April court
ruling.  Phone Rules  Today’s development prompted renewed calls for Genachowski
to proceed with his idea to claim power over Internet service
using rules written for monopoly telephone service in the 20th
century. Companies such as AT&T and  Verizon Communications Inc. 
oppose such action and say it may prompt more regulation,
including price controls. Lawmakers and advocacy groups have
urged Genachowski to proceed, saying customers need protection.  Waxman’s bill would bar the FCC from using the phone rules
during its two-year duration.  “If our efforts to find bipartisan consensus fail, the FCC
should move forward,” Waxman said.  Jen Howard, an FCC spokeswoman, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Todd Shields  in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 