-- Wheat Falls to Eight-Week Low in Chicago as Rain in Russia May Boost Crops
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2010-09-29T19:42:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/wheat-falls-to-eight-week-low-in-chicago-as-rain-in-russia-may-boost-crops.html
Wheat futures fell to an eight-week
low on speculation that rains in Russia and Eastern Europe will
improve soil moisture for planting.  Parts of western and southern Russia may get 0.2 inch (0.5
centimeter) of precipitation tomorrow, and eastern Ukraine may
get 1 inch by Oct. 1, according to AccuWeather Inc. Wheat prices
have surged 42 percent since the end of June after Russia’s
worst drought in 50 years hurt crops. Winter-variety  planting  in
the country runs from August to October.  “They’re getting rain in some Russian winter-wheat
areas,” said  Jamey Kohake , a broker at Paragon Investments in
Silver Lake, Kansas. Growing regions “still need moisture. They
haven’t come out of it at all yet,” he said.  Wheat futures for December delivery fell 1.25 cents, or 0.2
percent, to close at $6.835 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the Chicago
Board of Trade. Earlier, the commodity sank to $6.6325, the
lowest level for a most-active contract since Aug. 2.  Russia banned all grain exports until next year because of
the drought. Last year, the U.S. was the world’s largest
exporter, followed by Canada and Russia.  Wheat is the fourth-biggest U.S. crop, valued at $10.6
billion in 2009, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show.  Wheat futures have slipped 5.1 percent this week, which may
be spurring speculators to cut long positions, or bets for a
price increase, said  Shawn McCambridge , the senior grain analyst
for Prudential Bache Commodities LLC.  Hedge funds and other large  speculators  reduced their net-
long positions by 9,917 contracts in the week ended Sept. 21,
government data show. Net-long positions are down 38 percent
since reaching a six-year high Aug. 24.  “We started trading down through some technical support
levels, and the funds are carrying large long positions,”
McCambridge said from Chicago. “That triggered an additional
cycle of liquidation, the downturn we’ve seen in the last couple
of days.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 