-- Wind Hellas Bondholders Favored Over Telenor to Acquire Company
-- B y   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   K a t e   H a y w o o d
-- 2010-09-29T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/wind-hellas-bondholders-said-favored-over-telenor-to-acquire-phone-company.html
Wind Hellas Telecommunications SA ’s
senior-secured bondholders are in the lead to acquire
Greece’s third-largest mobile phone operator, said three people
with knowledge of the matter.  While a bid by Telenor ASA, the Nordic region’s largest
phone company, is preferred by lenders of Wind Hellas,
bondholders aren’t satisfied with the offer, terms of which
couldn’t be determined, said the people, who declined to be
identified because a final decision hasn’t been made.  Wind Hellas, which was bought out of bankruptcy less than
12 months ago by Egyptian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris , is
controlled by creditors after it deferred payments on a 250
million-euro ($341 million) revolving credit facility in June
and missed an interest payment on its 1.2 billion euros of
floating-rate notes. Wind and its adviser, Morgan Stanley, will
pick a preferred bidder by Oct. 14, the people said.  An offer by Sawiris isn’t considered adequate, one of the
people said. Other bidders had included Info-Quest SA, Greece’s
No. 1 computer maker, Los Angeles-based Saban Capital Group Inc.
and Argo Capital Partners Fund Ltd., which has a stake in
Athens-based On Telecoms, another person said.  The process isn’t over and the bondholders may not end up
the preferred bidders, the people said.  Argo Capital declined to comment yesterday while Sawiris
didn’t respond to messages. A Telenor spokesman didn’t
immediately respond to a call seeking comment. Athens-based
Info-Quest spokeswoman Fani Kirkou didn’t respond to a request
for comment.  Creditors took control of the business in June after Wind
Hellas missed debt payments.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kate Haywood  in London at 
 khaywood@bloomberg.net 
 Jacqueline Simmons  in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  