-- Yankees, Rays Earn Spots in MLB Playoffs; Cincinnati Reds Take NL Central
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2010-09-29T13:42:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/yankees-rays-win-to-enter-mlb-playoffs-cincinnati-reds-take-nl-central.html
The New York Yankees and Tampa Bay
Rays won to clinch Major League Baseball playoff spots, while
the Cincinnati Reds topped the National League
Central division to make the postseason for the first time in 15
years.  CC Sabathia  earned his American League-leading 21st
victory last night as the visiting Yankees beat the Toronto
Blue Jays 6-1 to reach the playoffs for the 15th time in 16
years.  Derek Jeter  scored three runs and drove in another for
New York, which two years ago missed the postseason for the
 first time  since 1993.  “This was the first step, getting in, now we’ve got a
chance to defend our title,” said Sabathia, a 30-year-old left-
hander. “I feel like last year everything came a little easy.
This year we’ve been grinding and I think that makes for a lot
of character on the team. Hopefully it will help us in the
playoffs.”  The Yankees (94-64) are a half-game behind the Rays in the
race for first place in the AL East division. Tampa Bay (94-63)
ensured it will at least gain a wild-card place by beating the
visiting Baltimore Orioles 5-0.  The victories by the Rays and Yankees eliminated the
Boston Red Sox (87-70) from playoff contention. The Red Sox lost
5-4 to the Chicago White Sox last night.  Reds Win  At Great American Ball Park in Cincinnati,  Jay Bruce ’s
ninth-inning home run gave the Reds (88-69) a 3-2 win against
the Houston Astros.  “There’s nothing like it,” Bruce, 23, said as the Reds
celebrated.  Bruce hit his game-ending home run on the first pitch by
 Tim Byrdak  leading off the ninth inning. It was the 22nd time
the Reds have won in their last at-bat this season.  “When he hit that one up there, there was a big sigh of
relief and the party was on,” Reds manager  Dusty Baker 
said.  In the NL West, the San Francisco Giants defeated the
Arizona Diamondbacks 4-2 to take a two-game lead atop the
division over the San Diego Padres, who lost 5-2 to the visiting
Chicago Cubs.  Eric Hinske  hit a two-run homer to lead the Atlanta Braves
to a 3-2 win at home against Florida, extending the Braves’ lead
over San Diego to 1 1/2 games in the race for the NL wild card.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nancy Kercheval  in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  