-- Yen Near Eight-Week Low Versus Euro as Tankan Boosts BOJ Easing Prospects
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 2010-09-29T03:16:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/yen-declines-on-prospects-bank-of-japan-will-take-action-to-bolster-growth.html
The yen was near an eight-week low
against the euro on speculation the Bank of Japan will add to
monetary easing efforts at its meeting next week to bolster the
nation’s recovery.  The yen traded weaker than 84 per dollar after the central
bank’s Tankan survey today showed a slowing pace of improvement
in business confidence. The dollar was set for a quarterly loss
versus all its major peers before data forecast to show U.S.
business activity waned, adding to the case for the Federal
Reserve to increase debt purchases to support the economy. South
Korea’s won rose to a four-month high as the central bank said
this year’s current-account surplus  may exceed its forecast.  “The economic outlook is deteriorating, as recovery peaks
out,” said  Junichi Makino , a senior economist at Daiwa
Institute of Research Ltd. in Tokyo. “The BOJ is likely to do
something such as injecting more capital. That won’t reverse the
yen’s uptrend, but should stem excessive gains in the
currency.”  The yen was at 113.86 per euro as of 12:03 p.m. in Tokyo
from 113.94 in New York yesterday. It earlier reached 114.19 per
euro, the weakest level since Aug. 2. The yen was at 83.84 per
dollar from 83.87. It touched 83.69 yesterday, the highest level
since Sept. 15, when Japan sold its currency to weaken it.  The dollar was at $1.3580 per euro from $1.3585, after
trading at $1.3596 yesterday, the weakest since April 15.  Japan Sentiment  The BOJ’s quarterly index of sentiment at Japan’s large
manufacturers rose 7 points in September, the smallest
improvement since March 2009. The yen remains stronger than the
89.44 per dollar average estimated by large manufacturers for
the six months to March 2011 in the report.  “The projected rate was merely revised down to 89.44 even
with dollar-yen trading below 85 for most of the survey
period,” analysts led by Tohru Sasaki, head of Japan rates and
foreign-exchange research at JPMorgan Chase & Co., wrote in an
e-mail. “This means that exporters’ hedging operation should
still be lagging behind significantly.”  Central bank Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  and his board will
deliberate policy at an Oct. 4-5 policy meeting. He reiterated
this week that the bank stands ready to take action when
necessary. They last eased policy by expanding a credit lending
program to 30 trillion yen ($357 billion) from 20 trillion yen
on Aug. 30.  Global risk aversion this year has driven gains in the yen,
which tends to strengthen during economic turmoil as Japan’s
trade surplus makes it less reliant on foreign capital. A
stronger domestic currency hurts the overseas competitiveness of
Japanese companies. The yen reached 82.88 per dollar on Sept.
15, the most since May 1995.  Intervention Amounts  The Ministry of Finance in Tokyo will report tomorrow the
amount of yen the central bank sold from Aug. 28 through Sept.
28 to curb appreciation in the currency. Demand for the yen has
been tempered amid speculation Japan will sell its currency
again after doing so on Sept. 15 for the first time since 2004.  “Investors remain cautious about Japan’s intervention,”
said Kazuya Yashiro, currency analyst at Himawari Securities,
Inc. in Tokyo. “They are hesitant to sell or buy the dollar-
yen.”  The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. is
forecast to report tomorrow that its business barometer fell to
55.7 this month from 56.7 in August, according to the median
estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Figures
greater than 50 signal expansion.  “The high probability is the Fed is going to print more
money,” said Adam Carr, a senior economist at ICAP Australia
Ltd. in Sydney. “Greenbacks are likely to be dumped.”  Fed’s Lockhart  Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta President Dennis Lockhart
said the debate over whether policy makers should undertake a
new round of asset purchases will “intensify” soon.  “In the coming weeks, monetary policy makers must come to
grips with the question of whether there is anything they can do
to improve the situation in the economy and, if so, what that
action should be,” Lockhart said in the text of a speech
yesterday in Sewanee, Tennessee. While declining to take a
position, he said “this debate will intensify over the coming
weeks.”  The dollar depreciated 9.9 percent versus the euro this
quarter, the worst performance among the European currency’s 16
major counterparts. The greenback has pared this year’s advance
to 5.5 percent.  South Korea’s won climbed for a third-straight day as Bank
of Korea official Lee Young Bog said this year’s current-account
surplus may exceed the central bank’s forecast.  “At the current pace, the surplus may reach $30 billion by
the end of this year,” said  Christian Carrillo , head of Asia-
Pacific rates strategy at Societe Generale SA in Tokyo. “That
implies that the Korean won would likely continue
appreciating.”  The won advanced 0.5 percent to 1,140.70 per dollar, after
earlier touching 1,140.00, the strongest level since May 14.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
 Ron Harui  in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 