-- Lynas Signs Contract With Japan Rare Earths Consumer Amid `De Facto' Ban
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2010-09-29T06:53:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/lynas-signs-contract-with-japan-rare-earths-consumer-amid-de-facto-ban.html
Lynas Corp. , building a A$550
million ($532 million) rare earths project in Australia, agreed
to supply a Japanese customer, a day after Japan said China’s
“de facto” export ban on the materials may harm its economy.  “Lynas is extremely pleased to sign this contract with
one of the leading companies in their specific market,”
Executive Chairman  Nicholas Curtis  said, without identifying
the customer. The rare earths will be supplied from the Sydney-
based company’s Mt. Weld project and produced at its plant in
Kuantan, Malaysia, when it starts up next year.  China, which controls more than 90 percent of the global
rare earths market, last week stopped exports to Japan,
Japanese Economy Minister  Banri Kaieda  said yesterday. In July,
China cut export quotas for this half by 72 percent to bolster
prices and ensure domestic supplies of rare earths, a group of
17 metals used in weapons, liquid crystal displays, hybrid
vehicles and laptop computers.  “Rare earths are becoming a major raw material in
electronics,” Peter Strachan, a Perth-based analyst for
independent advisory firm StockAnalysis, said today in a phone
interview. “When China announced it was restricting exports,
prices started to rise dramatically. That’s what has focused
the attention on companies like Lynas.”  Aggregate prices for the rare earths to be mined at Mt.
Weld have risen to $51 a kilogram, from an average of $16 a
kilogram in the second quarter, according to  Lynas . The
company’s shares rose 2.6 percent to close at A$1.36 in Sydney
trading, taking the gain for the year to 147 percent.  Strained Ties  Ties between Asia’s two biggest economies soured over the
detention of a Chinese fishing boat captain whose ship collided
with Japanese Coast Guard vessels. Japan’s decision to release
him last week initially failed to assuage China, which demanded
compensation for the seizure of the trawler and crew.  China ended its effective ban on rare-earth exports to
Japan yesterday when it began accepting customs applications,
the Asahi newspaper reported today, citing unidentified
Japanese companies.  Companies were able to apply for customs clearance over
the Internet yesterday and may be able to obtain permits as
early as today, the newspaper said. China had halted customs
procedures since Sept. 21, it said.  Automaker Task Force  Japan takes about 65 percent of China’s rare earth exports,
according to a Sept. 24 report by Macquarie Group Ltd.
Automakers such as Toyota Motor Corp.,  Honda Motor Co.  and
Nissan Motor Co., which require rare earth elements for vehicle
development, are among the companies most affected by
restrictions on trade, Macquarie said.  Toyota  set up a task force last quarter to explore
alternative procurement sources for rare earths and recycling
of used parts, the Nikkan Kogyo newspaper reported today.
Toyota spokesman Paul Nolasco confirmed the company has set up
such a team, without providing further details.  Lynas will start production in 2011’s third quarter with
initial output of 11,000 metric tons a year, which will double
to 22,000 tons by the end of 2012,  Matthew James , vice
president of corporate and business development, said in an
interview from Sydney yesterday.  Lynas has signed contracts for about half of its planned
production, including a 10-year deal with France’s Rhodia SA,
James said. It doesn’t have any contracts with Chinese
companies, he said, declining to name other buyers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  