-- Hyperactivity Determined by Genes, Not Poor Parenting, Scientists Find
-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   S p i l l a n e
-- 2010-09-30T08:42:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-29/hyperactivity-determined-by-genes-not-poor-parenting-scientists-find.html
Don’t blame  attention-deficit
hyperactivity disorder  on poor parenting or excess candy. A 
study suggests it’s all about genes.  Hyperactive children have a larger proportion of small DNA
segments that are either duplicated or missing, according to a
study published online today by the medical journal  The Lancet .  The findings may help remove the stigma attached to the
disorder, said  Anita Thapar  of Cardiff University School of
Genetics, the study’s lead author.  “Some people say ‘it’s not a real disorder’ or ‘it’s the
result of bad parenting’ and parents and children can encounter
much stigma because of this,” Thapar said at a press conference
in London yesterday. “So finding this direct genetic link to
ADHD should help clear this misunderstanding.”  Thapar and her colleagues compared 366 children, ages 5 to
17, who had been diagnosed with ADHD with 1,047 who hadn’t.
Children with other diagnosed psychiatric illnesses weren’t
included in the study. Kids with ADHD were almost twice as
likely to have stretches of large, rare, chromosomal deletions
and duplications know as copy number variants, the researchers
found.  “We’ve known for many years that ADHD may well be genetic
because it tends to run in families,” Thapar said. “What’s
really exciting now is that we’ve found the first direct genetic
link.”  The genetic abnormalities were found in the same positions
as in patients with other neuro-developmental disorders like
autism and schizophrenia, suggesting a common biological basis
for the diseases, the researchers said. The children in the
study who were intellectually disabled had more copy number
variants. There was no overall difference between girls and
boys, the researchers said.  The research hasn’t pinpointed a single gene, or group of
genes, at the root of the disorder, according to Thapar. The
findings probably won’t affect treatment guidelines, she said.  Patients with ADHD have difficulties with attention,
increased activity and impulsivity, according to the  American
Academy of Child & Adolescent Psychiatry . Between 3 and 7
percent of school-aged children and about 4 percent of adults
have ADHD, the group estimates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Eva von Schaper  in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Spillane  in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 