-- Microsoft aims at VMware's virtualization lead
-- By  Daisuke Wakabayashi
-- Thu Sep 6, 2007 7:32pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/09/06/businesspro-microsoft-virtualization-dc-idUSN0640004720070906

 

 SEATTLE  (Reuters) - Microsoft Corp. ( MSFT.O ), seeking to 
preserve the dominance of its Windows franchise, launched a new 
software application that takes aim at VMware Inc. ( VMW.N ), the 
leader in "virtualization" technology that allows a single 
computer server to operate like many machines. 

  Systems Center Virtual Machine Manager 2007, introduced on 
Thursday, allows companies to deploy virtualization technology, 
centralize management and convert machines running VMware to a 
Microsoft format.  The move is considered one of Microsoft's first major 
efforts to cut into the lead held by VMware -- which went 
public this summer in the hottest technology IPO in years -- 
and thus undercut a potential threat to Windows server 
software.  "The sleeping beast has awoken," said Stephen Elliot, 
research director at IDC. "Microsoft's been a little slow to 
the game."  Windows accounts for about two-thirds of the market for 
computer-server operating systems, by shipments, but Microsoft 
is considered a laggard in virtualization to allow servers to 
run Linux or Unix operating systems alongside its own software.  Virtualization is one of the fastest-growing segments of 
the technology industry since it enables technology departments 
to use servers more efficiently, cutting the need for machines 
and reducing electricity costs.  It also allows companies more flexibility on how data 
centers are managed and simplifies the implementation of new 
software applications.  VMware, an affiliate of data storage firm EMC Corp ( EMC.N ), 
holds more than 70 percent of the virtualization market and its 
sales have doubled year-on-year for the past several quarters.
  TAKING ON VMWARE  Microsoft's main weapon against VMware is expected to be a 
piece of software, code-named Viridian, that will be included 
as a feature of its next generation of Windows Server software. 
Viridian will act as a "hypervisor" or extra layer that sits 
between the hardware and the operating system.  The Redmond, Washington-based company has experienced some 
delays in bringing Viridian to market. It now expects Viridian 
to be available six months after the release of Windows Server 
2008, which is due for completion before the end of 2007.  Still, Microsoft pointed to industry analyst figures that 
forecast virtualization-enabled Windows Servers to surpass 10 
million units by 2010.  Industry analysts see virtualization as both a threat and 
an opportunity for Microsoft. On one hand, it may weaken 
Microsoft's grip on the server market and may force it to share 
space on single machines with other operating systems.  But if it executes properly, analysts think, Microsoft 
could become a platform upon which all virtualization is done.  The first step starts with Systems Center Virtual Machine 
Manager 2007. It integrates with Microsoft's existing software 
tools into a single suite of applications to manage both 
virtualized and non-virtualized servers.  Microsoft also said that once Viridian becomes available, 
the software tools will work with other virtualization software 
including ones from VMware and XenSource Inc., a company 
recently acquired by Citrix Systems Inc. ( CTXS.O )  Microsoft sees virtualization as more pervasive than the 
prevailing view that the technology is limited to servers, 
saying customers also want their desktop computers and 
individual applications to take advantage of it.  For example, a company may want one of its computers 
running Microsoft's new Windows Vista operating system to run 
an older version of Windows on the same machine.  "We think the impact of virtualization is much broader than 
how VMware is defining it," said David Greschler, a Microsoft 
director of integrated virtualization strategy.