-- Neiman, Saddled With Buyout Debt, May Seek to Restructure It
-- Cotten Timberlake
-- 2009-03-18T18:46:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-03-18/neiman-saddled-with-buyout-debt-may-seek-to-restructure-it.html

          
          
             Neiman Marcus  Group Inc., burdened
with $3 billion in debt from its buyout, faces difficulty
negotiating “acceptable terms” on a replacement revolving
facility and may seek to restructure its borrowings, Moody’s
Investors Service said.  
 The Dallas-based retailer’s “heavy debt and interest burden
leave the company with very little financial flexibility to
weather the current contraction of the luxury-goods market,”
Moody’s said in a report today. The rating company yesterday
slashed Neiman’s debt ratings by three notches.  
 High-end department stores have been clobbered by sharp
sales declines as consumers reduce purchases of non-necessities.
The  International Council of Shopping Centers  predicted this
month sales at luxury stores open at least a year would drop as
much as 15 percent this year, more than the 8 percent decrease it
had projected earlier.  
 Warburg Pincus LLC and TPG Inc., formerly Texas Pacific
Group, bought Neiman Marcus in October 2005 for $5.1 billion,
partly with a $1.98 billion loan and $1.2 billion in bonds.  
 Neiman Marcus Vice President of Finance Stacie Shirley did
not immediately return a phone call and e-mail seeking comment on
the Moody’s report.  
 The chain on March 11 posted a second-quarter  net loss  of
$509.3 million after cutting prices during the  holiday shopping
season  and writing down its assets by $560.2 million. Sales at
stores open at least a year plunged 23 percent.  
 Neiman Marcus will need this year to begin renegotiating its
$600 million credit revolver facility, which expires in October
2010, according to the Moody’s report.  
 ‘Very Weak’ Metrics  
 The talks with lenders will come “at a point when the
company’s credit metrics will have just dramatically deteriorated
and will be very weak,” it said.  
 An option to pay its debt with debt, which it elected to
conserve cash, also expires in 2010, Moody’s said.  
 “We believe that these two facts increase the likelihood
that the company may choose to restructure its debt,” Moody’s
said.  
 The report was written by analysts Margaret Taylor and Peter Abdill in  New York .  
 Neiman has “limited alternative sources of liquidity”
since all its domestic assets have been pledged to secure its
debt, the report said. The revolving facility is secured by
Neiman’s  inventory , it said.  
 Available Cash  
 On Jan. 31, the company had about $223 million of cash, and
no direct borrowings under its facility, Chief Financial Officer
Jim Skinner said on a March 11 conference call.  
 “We expect the company’s operating results to continue to
face negative pressure and, as the company anniversaries out of
its stronger prior-year quarters, credit metrics will erode
quickly,” Moody’s said.  
 Debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization will rise above 10 times by the fiscal year ending
Aug. 2, the analysts predicted, after rising to 6.9 times in the
12 months ended Jan. 31.  
 Moody’s yesterday cut Neiman Marcus’s probability-of-default
rating to Caa1 from B1.  
 Moody’s also downgraded the long-term debt ratings of
 Nordstrom Inc. (JWN) , including its senior unsecured rating, by one
level, to Baa2 from Baa1. Saks Inc.’s corporate family rating was
lowered to B2 from B1 and its probability of default rating was
cut to B3 from B1.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        