-- TI view disappoints, cites caution across markets
-- By  Sinead Carew
-- Mon Apr 21, 2008 9:16pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/04/22/businesspro-texasinstruments-results-dc-idUSWNAS864820080422

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Microchip maker Texas Instruments Inc 
said quarterly profit rose but forecast results below Wall 
Street estimates, citing caution among a broad customer base as 
well as weak demand for high-end cell phones. 

  TI shares fell 2.5 percent in extended trade after the 
company also said on Monday its second quarter would be weaker 
than expected due to an uncertain economic situation.  Analysts believed the order weakness was mainly in wireless 
even though TI did not say how much was in the rest of its 
business, which includes analog chips used in various markets 
including consumer electronics and industrial products.  "We're just responding to our customers' conservatism. 
They're managing their inventory very tight," Chief Financial 
Officer Kevin March said in an interview with Reuters. TI cited 
inventory levels that would take about two weeks longer to 
clear than in the same quarter a year ago.  While March said guidance was conservative across the 
board, he said demand for third-generation phones with fast Web 
links in particular would grow more slowly than anticipated.  "Demand will probably increase over time, but at a more 
delayed pace than customers might have previously expected," 
March said, referring to the advanced 3G phones, which include 
as many as four times more TI chips than more basic phones.  Qualcomm Inc, TI's main rival in wireless chips and a big 
player in 3G, is set to post results on Wednesday, a day after 
smaller rival Broadcom Corp reports.  "I would attribute it to wireless despite the company's 
talk of a conservative outlook for the broad market," said 
Charter Equity Research analyst John Dryden, who estimated that 
about half of TI's analog business relates to cell phones.  TI forecast second-quarter earnings per share of 42 to 48 
cents on revenue of $3.24 billion to $3.5 billion. Analysts, on 
average, had expected 48 cents on revenue of $3.45 billion.  Its first-quarter profit rose to $662 million, or 49 cents 
a share, from $516 million, or 35 cents a share, a year ago. 
Excluding a 6 cent-per-share tax benefit, the latest number met 
analyst expectations, according to Reuters Estimates.  Revenue rose to $3.27 billion from $3.19 billion.  Stifel Nicolaus analyst Cody Acree said it was not 
surprising that TI saw weak 3G demand after a disappointing 
view from its biggest customer, Nokia, last week, but that TI's 
broader caution beyond this was a new concern.  "That's the biggest concern right now," said Acree, adding 
that wireless was likely the biggest factor in the 
disappointing second-quarter outlook.  In March, TI forecast earnings per share of 41 to 45 cents 
on revenue $3.21 billion to $3.35 billion, warning at the time 
that wireless demand was weaker than expected, particularly 
from one customer.  "It's disappointing that the visibility has not improved," 
Acree said. TI's March said chip demand for computer hard disk 
drives was weaker than expected in the first quarter.  TI shares fell to $29.80 in extended trading from its close 
of $30.59 on the New York Stock Exchange.  (Additional reporting by  Michele Gershberg ; Editing by 
 Andre Grenon  and  Braden Reddall )