-- La Nina Floods May Disrupt Malaysia Palm Oil Output, State Forecaster Says
-- Thomas Kutty Abraham
-- 2010-08-06T06:56:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/la-nina-weather-may-flood-malaysia-s-palm-oil-areas-state-forecaster-says.html

          
          
             Palm oil harvesting in Malaysia, the
world’s second-biggest producer, may be disrupted in November
and December as the La Nina weather event causes flooding in
major growing areas, the country’s state forecaster said.  
 La Nina, caused by a cooling of the Pacific Ocean, may gain
strength by the end of the year and bring higher-than-normal
rainfall to northern Sarawak and the state of Sabah, the
 Malaysian Meteorological Department  said in an e-mail.  
 “During November and December, wetter conditions with
rainfall slightly above normal are expected in the Peninsular as
well most areas in Sabah,” the forecaster said. “During this
time, monsoonal floods are expected in low-lying areas,
particularly in the states of Kelantan, Terengganu and Pahang.”  
 Palm oil has rallied 16 percent from a seven-month low on
July 7 on optimism that consumption will increase in Asian
nations including India and China, which mark festivals in the
September quarter, and on concern that weather may disrupt
output in Indonesia and Malaysia, the top producers.  
 Malaysian stockpiles dropped to a 10-month low in June as
exports rose, according to the nation’s palm oil board.  
 October-delivery futures advanced as much as 1.1 percent to
2,648 ringgit ($842) a metric ton on the Malaysia Derivatives
Exchange, the highest intraday price since March 12., before
trading at 2,643 ringgit at the 12:30 p.m. break. The commodity
has gained 5 percent this week, heading for a fourth straight
weekly advance.  
 Main Driver  
 “In the short term, weather will likely be the main driver
of palm oil prices,”  Tan Ting Min , a plantation analyst for
Credit Suisse Group in Kuala Lumpur, said in a report. “If La
Nina were to coincide with the monsoon at end-2010, palm oil
harvesting could be disrupted due to flooding and heavy rainfall
while extraction rates could fall.”  
 Credit Suisse raised its estimate of the average palm oil
price this year to 2,600 ringgit, from 2,500 previously.  
 La Nina can disrupt harvests and lower palm oil production
in Indonesia and Malaysia, supporting prices, Citigroup Inc.
said this week. The weather event is now in its early stages
based on indicators in the Pacific Ocean, Australia’s Bureau of
Meteorology said on Aug. 4.  
 Malaysia’s palm oil production may drop to 17.2 million
tons from 17.6 million tons in 2009 because of the impact of dry
weather caused by El Nino earlier this year and the likely onset
of La Nina,  Dorab Mistry , director at Godrej International Ltd.,
said yesterday. That compares with a March forecast for an
increase to 18.1 million tons by Malaysia’s Industries and
Commodities Minister  Bernard Dompok .  
 Malaysia’s output increased to 9.98 million tons in the
January-June period from 7.92 million tons a year earlier, data
the country’s  Palm Oil Board  show.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Kutty Abraham  in Mumbai at 
 tabraham4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        