-- Thai Stocks, Baht Rise to Two-Year High on Fund Inflows, Economic Growth
-- Anuchit Nguyen
-- 2010-08-06T09:57:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/thai-stocks-baht-rise-to-two-year-high-on-fund-inflows-economic-growth.html

          
          
             Thailand’s stocks rose to the highest
level since May 2008 and the baht completed its best week in
more than four months after the government raised its economic
growth outlook for the year.  
 The currency also climbed to its strongest since May 2008
after Finance Minister  Korn Chatikavanij  said on Aug. 4 that the
economy will expand the most since 1995.  Overseas investors 
poured $377 million into Thai equities in the nine days ended
yesterday, helping boost the benchmark SET Index for 12 straight
days, the longest winning streak in more than two decades.  
 “The growth forecast was quite impressive, and there is
more room for stocks to rise,” said  Paisarn Lertkowit , a
currency trader at Bangkok Bank Pcl, the country’s biggest.
“When you compare this with other regions, only Asia has a
pretty impressive growth outlook. That’s why we may see further
capital inflows.”  
 The baht gained 0.7 percent this week, its best performance
since the week ended March 19, to 32.07 per dollar as of 4:43
p.m. in Bangkok, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
rose 0.2 percent from yesterday and touched 32.04, the strongest
level since May 2008.  
 The  SET  Index added 0.02 percent today to close at 875.07,
taking this week’s appreciation to 2.3 percent, the most since
the five days ended July 9. The index rose for an eighth
straight week.  
 Bull Market  
 The measure has climbed more than 20 percent since its May
25 low, an increase that analysts define as a bull market. Thai
stocks have rebounded after sliding 10 percent in April and May,
when clashes between troops and anti-government protesters in
Bangkok led to at least 89 deaths.  
 “The foreign flow continues to come in as long as the baht
stabilizes or strengthens,” said  Andy Pornprinya , Bangkok-based
senior vice president for regional institutional sales at UOB
Kay Hian Securities (Thailand) Pcl. “The biggest risk for
foreign investors is the currency. With strong economic
fundamentals and a strong baht, that’s why Thai stocks continue
to do very well.”  
 Thailand’s economy, Southeast Asia’s second biggest after
Indonesia, may grow as much as 8 percent in 2010, more than a
June estimate of a maximum 6 percent, Korn said.  
 The Bank of Thailand on July 14 raised its benchmark
interest rate for the first time in almost two years, boosting
the  one-day bond repurchase rate  by a quarter of a percentage
point to 1.5 percent.  
 ‘Cyclical Recovery’  
 “We are positive on Thai equities where there are
opportunities to ride the cyclical recovery,” said  Julian Tarrobago , who helps oversee about $120 million of assets at ATR
KimEng Asset Management Inc. in Manila.  
 The one-year onshore swap rate, the fixed cost needed to
receive a floating payment, rose to 1.77 percent from 1.75
percent a week ago. The rate has increased 39 basis points since
the end of June, suggesting investors have stepped up bets for
interest-rate increases. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 Central bank Deputy Governor Bandid Nijathaworn said on
July 20 that the rate increase “won’t be a one-time event” and
will continue if economic conditions remain strong.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yumi Teso  in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
 Anuchit Nguyen  in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Korn Chatikavanij, Thailand's finance minister  
                       
                         
                           Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg 
                         
                         The currency also climbed to its strongest since May 2008 after Finance Minister Korn Chatikavanij said on Aug. 4 that the economy will expand the most since 1995. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The currency also climbed to its strongest since May 2008 after Finance Minister Korn Chatikavanij said on Aug. 4 that the economy will expand the most since 1995. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
