-- AIG Says Italian Life Insurance Unit Is Investigated by Milan Prosecutor
-- Sarah Frier
-- 2010-08-06T17:32:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/aig-says-italian-life-insurance-unit-is-investigated-by-milan-prosecutor.html

          
          
             American International Group Inc. 
said an Italian subsidiary is being investigated by a prosecutor
in Milan and was sued by policyholders after suspending client
withdrawals from some investments that declined in value.  
 AIG’s Alico Life International Ltd. is cooperating with
Italian regulators, the company said today in a regulatory
filing reporting quarterly earnings. Clients said the company
provided inadequate disclosure about the investments, AIG said.
Withdrawals were halted in late 2008 as the parent company faced
a liquidity  squeeze  that forced a U.S. bailout.  
 “The public prosecutor in Milan had opened a formal
investigation into the actions of employees of ALIL, as well as
employees of ALIL’s major distributor, based on a policyholder’s
complaint,” New York-based AIG said in the filing. The insurer
is “in  discussions  to address their concerns as well as those
of the affected policyholders.”  
 AIG, which was rescued by the U.S. government in 2008,
agreed in March to sell Alico to  MetLife Inc . for about $15.5
billion. As part of the deal, AIG said it will indemnify MetLife
for legal claims and regulatory fines tied to suspended funds.  
 MetLife, the largest U.S. life insurer, will be protected
against losses tied to real estate bets in Japan and Alico’s
U.K. Premier Access Bond offering, the insurer said in March.  
 Withdrawals Halted  
 AIG  halted withdrawals  from the U.K. bond in 2008 after
clients took out more money in three days than they typically do
in three months. Assets backing the investments were put into a
Protected Recovery Fund, which guarantees customers a specified
sum by 2012 and will be managed by MetLife, the company said.  
 AIG  reported  $44 million in life insurance premiums in
Europe in the second quarter of 2008.  
 AIG, which lists more than 20 grouped lawsuits and probes
in today’s filing, is seeking to resolve a backlog of litigation
since its near-collapse. The insurer hired  Thomas Russo  in
February to be general counsel. Russo was the Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. chief legal officer when the securities firm went
bankrupt in 2008.  
 The insurer agreed to pay $725 million last month to settle
a lawsuit by investors, including public pension funds in Ohio,
New Mexico, Mississippi and California. They claimed AIG
fraudulently inflated results, causing its share price to
plummet when the deception was uncovered.  
 “The key here is for the company to go forward and make
money and do business and have issues dealing with supervisors
and shareholders all in the past,”  Ernest “Ernie” Patrikis , a
partner at White & Case and a former general counsel at AIG,
said last month.  
 Mark Herr , a spokesman for AIG, declined to comment.
 Christopher Breslin , a MetLife spokesman, didn’t return a call.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Frier  in New York at 
 sfrie@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        