-- AIG in Talks for `Complete Government Exit,' CEO Says
-- James Sterngold
-- 2010-08-06T21:39:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/aig-is-in-discussions-for-complete-government-exit-ceo-benmosche-says.html

          
          
             American International Group Inc. ,
the insurer that turned over a majority stake to the U.S. as
part of its bailout, is in talks with regulators to become
independent, said Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche . The
company gained 2.6 percent in New York trading.  
 “We have commenced discussions with the U.S. government on
the process and terms of a complete government exit,” Benmosche
told  employees  today in a memo. “Depending of course on market
conditions, which could remain volatile, we expect to make
meaningful progress in 2010 on repaying the  Federal Reserve Bank
of New York , and over time fully repaying all of our obligations
to taxpayers.”  
 Benmosche, 66, is divesting two non-U.S. life insurance
divisions, AIA Group Ltd. and American Life Insurance Co., to
help repay the 2008 bailout that swelled to $182.3 billion. The
CEO must also improve profits at AIG’s remaining property-
casualty and retirement services operations to fully repay the
U.S., which holds a  stake  of almost 80 percent in the firm.  
 The insurer has delivered to the Treasury Department a plan
that includes replacing the government’s stake with private
ownership, according to a person with knowledge of the proposal
who declined to be identified because it hasn’t been finalized.  
 AIG plans an initial public offering for AIA after the
collapse of a $35.5 billion agreement to sell the division to
Prudential Plc. AIG struck a deal to sell Alico to  MetLife Inc. 
for about $15.5 billion.  
 ‘Striking Distance’  
 After selling the life divisions, New York-based AIG will
be “well within striking distance of completely repaying the
Fed,” Benmosche said in the letter. AIG separately owed the
Treasury Department almost $50 billion, according to a June
report from the Congressional Oversight Panel.  
 Treasury Chief Restructuring Officer  Jim Millstein  said in
a May 26 hearing that if AIG’s core insurance businesses earn
about $8 billion a year, the company will have enough value to
repay the U.S. Those units produced $2.2 billion in operating
earnings in the second quarter, matching the results from the
first three months of the year, AIG said today.  
 AIG advanced $1.03 to $40.93 at 4:02 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite  trading . The company has  climbed  37 percent
this year, rewarding investors betting on a rebound, including
 Bruce Berkowitz , who runs Fairholme Capital Management.
Fairholme owned about 32.8 million shares as of June 30, the
biggest stake after the U.S. government. AIG slipped 4.5 percent
in 2009 and  plunged  97 percent in 2008.  
 Treasury Stake  
 Treasury is considering a plan to convert AIG preferred
shares into common stock and sell the holdings over two years, a
person with knowledge of talks with the insurer said in April.
The plan may be modeled after Treasury’s disposal of its stake
in Citigroup Inc., the person said.  
 The insurer’s strategy to become independent “could result
in the issuance of a large number of additional shares of AIG
common stock or other equity securities,” the company said
today in a regulatory filing. The new securities “could result
in significant dilution to AIG’s current shareholders,” the
firm said.  
 AIG today posted second-quarter net adjusted income of
$1.34 billion, up 17 percent from the year-earlier period, as
results improved from U.S. life operations. The operating profit
of $1.99 a share was double the average  estimate  of two analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 ‘Back to Business’  
 “As the company strings together acceptable quarters,
they’re showing they’re getting back to business as usual, and
it helps support the valuations of the businesses,” said  Robert Haines , an analyst at CreditSights Inc. in New York.  
 Operating profit from U.S. life businesses quadrupled from
a year earlier to $1.05 billion as investment income climbed on
private-equity and hedge-fund results. Companywide, so-called
partnership investments generated a $508 million profit in the
quarter, compared with a loss of $193 million a year earlier.  
 AIG incurred a second-quarter accounting charge of $3.3
billion tied to the value of Alico. The impairment pushed the
firm to a net loss of $2.66 billion compared with net income of
$1.82 billion a year earlier. MetLife raised funds this week in
share and  bond sales  and plans to complete the deal this year.  
 Realized investment losses narrowed to $564 million from
$899 million in the year-earlier period. AIG’s derivatives
business posted an operating loss of about $132 million, little
changed from last year’s second quarter.  
 Bond Rally  
 Unrealized gains on bonds available for sale surged to
$10.3 billion from $2.45 billion three months earlier on a climb
in the value of corporate debt holdings. The figures, reflecting
market fluctuations that aren’t counted toward earnings, are
monitored by investors and  rating firms  as a gauge of financial
strength.  
 The insurer, once the world’s largest, was first rescued in
September 2008 by the Fed. After three revisions, the firm’s
lifeline includes the $60 billion Fed credit facility, a U.S.
Treasury Department investment of as much as $69.8 billion and
up to $52.5 billion to buy mortgage-linked assets owned or
backed by the company.  
 The debt on the  credit line  has declined for seven of the
past nine weeks and is $23.7 billion, according to data released
by the Fed late yesterday. AIG was allowed by the government in
December to reduce the draw by $25 billion in anticipation of
proceeds from divestitures of Alico and AIA.  
 “I’m confident you’ll get your money, plus a profit,”
Benmosche told the Congressional Oversight Panel during a May
hearing into the AIG rescue and U.S. prospects of being repaid.  
 AIG is also in talks to hand over stakes in mortgage linked
bonds that pushed the insurer to the brink of collapse, people
familiar with the matter said last month.  
 The mortgage assets are contained in Maiden Lane II and
Maiden Lane II, entities created in 2008 as part of the U.S.
effort to remove toxic securities from the firm. AIG retains a
stake in the Maiden Lanes and valued it at $6.7 billion as of
June 30, compared with $6.2 billion on March 31.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hugh Son  in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net ;
 James Sterngold  in New York at 
 jsterngold2@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       AIG CEO Robert Benmosche  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         AIG CEO Robert Benmosche told employees “We have commenced discussions with the U.S. government on the process and terms of a complete government exit.” 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     AIG CEO Robert Benmosche told employees “We have commenced discussions with the U.S. government on the process and terms of a complete government exit.” Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 6 (Bloomberg) -- American International Group Inc., the insurer rescued by the U.S., said second-quarter operating profit rose 17 percent as results improved from U.S. life operations. The company is in talks with federal regulators to become independent, Chief Executive Officer Robert Benmosche told employees today in a memo. Bloomberg's Suzanne O'Halloran reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
