-- Taiwan Tests for 25% Housing Drop, Ta Chong Bank Says
-- Janet Ong
-- 2010-08-06T09:03:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/taiwan-bank-stress-tests-gauge-risk-from-25-home-price-drop-banker-says.html

          
          
             Taiwan  regulators asked lenders to
conduct stress tests to gauge the impact of a 25 percent drop in
home prices amid concern speculators have driven the market too
high, said Johnson Chung, head of mortgages at  Ta Chong Bank Co.   
 “The regulator is doing the stress test because the
government is concerned about banks’ exposure to the property
market,” Chung said in a telephone interview today. He said
officials are also concerned that “hot money” may create a
bubble in asset prices.  
 Regulators imposed mortgage curbs after home prices jumped
11.8 percent in June from a year earlier, according to Sinyi
Realty Inc. The Financial Supervisory Commission last week told
banks to assess the risk of defaults in case of a slump in
employment, property prices or economic growth, after seven
banks failed stress tests in Europe.  
 Shiau Chang-ruey , chief secretary of the Financial
Regulatory Commission, declined to comment today. The regulator
didn’t reveal specific levels for the tests, which must be
completed by Sept. 15.  
 “The government is trying to avert a repeat of what
happened in Europe with the credit crisis and this is a pre-
emptive move,” said  Chang Chin-oh , director of Taiwan Real
Estate Research Center at the National Chengchi University.  
 European regulators last month found that banks needed to
raise a combined 3.5 billion euros ($4.6 billion) of capital.
Analysts including  Gary Jenkins  at Evolution Securities Ltd. in
London said the European tests were not strict enough.  
 China Tests  
 China’s stress tests of banks will assess the risk that a
possible slump in property prices may strain developers’
finances and cause homebuyers to default, a person with
knowledge of the matter said this week.  
 The banking regulator told lenders to include worst-case
scenarios of prices dropping 50 percent to 60 percent in cities
where they have risen excessively, the person said, declining to
be identified because the regulator’s requirement hasn’t been
publicly announced. Previous stress tests carried out in this
year assumed home-price declines of as much as 30 percent.  
 Taipei-based Ta Chong Bank, controlled by Carlyle Group LP,
had NT$112 billion of mortgages at the end July, accounting for
about 45 percent of its loans.  
 Measures already taken to curb speculation in Taiwan’s
property market include capping home loans to buyers who already
have a mortgage in the metropolitan Taipei area at 70 percent of
a property’s value.  
 Interest Rates  
 Taiwan’s central bank on June 25 unexpectedly raised its
benchmark interest rate to 1.375 percent from a record low 1.25
percent. A week later, Governor  Perng Fai-nan  sent a letter to
the chairmen of Taiwan’s financial institutions, calling on them
to take steps to prevent housing speculation after complaints
from citizens.  
 Trading volume of existing homes in the Taipei metropolitan
area dropped almost 10 percent in July after the central bank
introduced the curbs, according to data from Sinyi.  
 Consumer loans in Taiwan, including housing purchases and
renovations, climbed for 23 months through June, when they rose
4.8 percent from a year earlier to NT$6.87 trillion ($216
billion), according to central bank data.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Janet Ong  in Taipei at 
 jong3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Taiwan tests for 25% housing drop, says Ta Chong bank  
                       
                         
                           Maurice Tsai/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Residential buildings are illuminated at night in Sanchong, Taipei county, Taiwan. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Residential buildings are illuminated at night in Sanchong, Taipei county, Taiwan. Photographer: Maurice Tsai/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
