-- Allianz Quarterly Net Income Falls on ICBC, Hartford
-- Oliver Suess
-- 2010-08-06T15:38:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/allianz-second-quarter-profit-declines-to-1-34-billion-missing-estimates.html

          
          
             Allianz SE , Europe’s biggest insurer,
said profit dropped 46 percent after it earned less from selling
shares in  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd.  and wrote
down its investment in  Hartford Financial Services Group Inc.   
 Net income in the second quarter fell to 1.02 billion euros
($1.34 billion) from 1.87 billion euros in the year-earlier
period, the company said in an e-mailed statement today. That
missed the 1.18 billion-euro median estimate of 13 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg, while a 23 percent gain in operating
profit to 2.19 billion euros exceeded projections.  
 “While in the second quarter soft market conditions
persisted in many insurance markets, positive price effects were
observed in several of our core markets,” Chief Financial
Officer  Oliver Baete  said in the statement. “Our quarterly
operating profit growth shows progress in terms of underwriting,
claims management and productivity.”  
 Allianz shares increased 0.1 percent to 90.21 euros in
Frankfurt trading, giving the company a market a value of about
40.9 billion euros.  
 “At first glance Allianz has published a strong second-
quarter result of good quality,”  Thorsten Wenzel , an analyst at
DZ Bank AG in Frankfurt, wrote in a note to clients. The drop in
net income “is due to a very low level of realized capital
gains,” he said.  
 ICBC, Hartford  
 Chief Executive Officer  Michael Diekmann , 55, said he’s
“confident” the Munich-based insurer can achieve its target of
reaching operating profit of 7.2 billion euros, plus or minus
500 million euros, this year.  
 The company earned 115 million euros in the second quarter
from the April sale of shares in  ICBC , it said in the  quarterly
report  posted on its website today. In the year-earlier period,
Allianz booked a gain of 666 million euros from selling a stake
in the Beijing-based lender.  
 Allianz posted a 167 million-euro writedown on its
investment in  Hartford  in the quarter, compared with a positive
effect of 97 million euros in the previous three months. The
German company invested $2.5 billion in Hartford in 2008 via
subordinated debt, shares and warrants, which currently entitle
it to buy 18 percent of the U.S. insurer. Allianz has said its
investment in Hartford is “a long-term financial investment.”  
 Hartford, which is based in the Connecticut city of the
same name, dropped the most in a month in New York trading
yesterday after cutting its 2010 profit forecast.  
 Natural Disasters  
 Low interest rates as well as reduced prices in some of the
biggest property and casualty insurance segments such as motor
insurance are weighing on insurers’ profits. This year also saw
a number of costly natural disasters including European winter
storm Xynthia and the earthquake that hit Chile in February.  
 Allianz’s property and casualty insurance unit, typically
the most important division in terms of earnings, reported an 28
percent increase in operating profit in the quarter. Spending on
claims and other costs as a percentage of premiums, also known
as the combined ratio, improved to 96.3 percent in the quarter
from 98.9 percent a year earlier. Allianz has said it may reach
a ratio of 96.5 percent this year.  
 The asset management unit, which includes Newport Beach,
California-based  Pacific Investment Management Co. , more than
doubled its operating profit to 516 million euros. The division
had net inflows of 23 billion euros in the quarter, bringing
third-party assets under management to 1.14 trillion euros,
Allianz said.  
 Axa SA , Europe’s second-biggest insurer, said earlier this
week that first-half profit fell 29 percent after a loss on the
sale of most of its U.K. life-insurance business to  Resolution
Ltd.  The Paris-based insurer’s net income of 944 million euros
topped estimates.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Oliver Suess  in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Michael Diekmann, CEO of Allianz  
                       
                         
                           Guenter Schiffmann/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Allianz Chief Executive Officer Michael Diekmann confirmed a target to reach operating profit of 7.2 billion euros, plus or minus 500 million euros, this year. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Allianz Chief Executive Officer Michael Diekmann confirmed a target to reach operating profit of 7.2 billion euros, plus or minus 500 million euros, this year. Photographer: Guenter Schiffmann/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
