-- Ambac Lawyers Inspect Suspect Mortgage Documents in a `Hazardous' Garage
-- Christine Richard
-- 2010-08-06T18:34:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/ambac-tells-judge-mortgage-examinations-done-in-hazardous-parking-garage.html

          
          
             Ambac Financial Group Inc., battling
mortgage companies over what it says were improperly
underwritten home loans, told a judge its lawyers are being
forced to review loan documents in a partially lit underground
parking area under falling debris that may contain asbestos.  
 Ambac  lawyers have spent as much as 10 hours a day going
through boxes of files stored by  American Home Mortgage
Investment Corp.  in a locked storage area or “cage” in the
basement of a windowless, underground parking garage, according
to a July 30 letter from Carrie Syme, an outside attorney for
Ambac at Patterson Belknap Webb & Tyler LLP in New York, to U.S.
District Judge  Nicholas Garaufis  in Brooklyn, New York.  
 On July 8, Garaufis ordered bankrupt mortgage originator
American Home Mortgage to give Ambac access to its files.
American Home sold mortgages to EMC Mortgage Corp. which is
being sued by Ambac. The insurer is seeking to have EMC
repurchase mortgages bundled into securities that it later
guaranteed.  
 “There is very little air circulation, and it is difficult
for the attorneys to breathe when spending all day in the Cage,”
Syme wrote to the judge, describing the Melville, New York,
facility where the company has stored 10,000 boxes.  
 “In addition, many of the light bulbs are burned out and
have not been replaced,” Syme said in the letter, which
requested the judge compel American Home Mortgage to improve
conditions in the garage. The area has “little light, poor air
quality, and indeterminate debris” that “may contain
asbestos,” the letter said. Working conditions are
“hazardous,” according to the letter.  
 Document Search  
 Bond insurers have been going through documents used to
underwrite billions of dollars of mortgages that backed
securities they insured in an attempt to show that they were
defrauded by companies misrepresenting the quality of borrowers’
income levels and employment.  
 Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are also seeking to have
originators repurchase defaulted mortgages. The Federal Reserve
Bank of New York, which owns mortgage securities after it
participated in the rescue of Bear Stearns Cos. and American
International Group Inc., also is considering such a move.  
 In a July 22 e-mail,  Lia Brooks , another Patterson Belknap
lawyer representing Ambac, told Curtis Crowther, an outside
attorney for American Home Mortgage with the Wilmington,
Delaware, firm of Young Conaway Stargatt & Taylor LLP, about the
conditions in the Melville garage and requested that a door be
opened to allow for better ventilation. Ambac also requested
that the company determine whether asbestos was used in the
parking garage.  
 Crumbling Material  
 “There is material on the ceiling which is crumbling and
falling on the boxes of documents,” Brooks wrote in a July 22
e-mail. “As you know, asbestos is a health hazard when
disturbed.”  
 American Home Mortgage told the judge in an Aug. 3 letter
that the material was unlikely to be asbestos given the age of
the building and that Ambac should pay for a second security
guard if it wanted to leave one of the doors to the facility
open. “We are not about to risk the security of the documents
by opening the door to the outside world,” Crowther wrote to
Brooks in a July 23 e-mail.  
 On Aug. 4, Garaufis said American Home Mortgage should
address Ambac’s concerns within seven days or explain to the
court why it would not.  
 The case is Ambac Assurance Corp. v. EMC Mortgage Corp.,
1:10-mc-0010, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New York
(Brooklyn).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Richard  in New York at 
 crichard5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        