-- IMF to Disburse $353 Million to Angola After Reviewing Government Policy
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2010-09-27T17:25:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/angola-progress-on-1-4-billion-loan-plan-broadly-satisfactory-imf-says.html
The International Monetary Fund
approved a $353 million disbursement to Angola as part of a $1.3
billion loan after reviewing the government’s policies,
including efforts to reduce the economy’s vulnerability to
volatility in the price of oil.  “The macroeconomic situation continues to improve and
reforms are beginning to bear fruit,” IMF Deputy Managing
Director  Murilo Portugal  said in an e-mail statement today.  “There remains a substantial reform agenda ahead to
address remaining macroeconomic difficulties, strengthen
macroeconomic management capacity and limit Angola’s
vulnerability to oil price fluctuations,” he said.  Angola sought relief from the IMF last year amid a global
economic crisis that had pushed down the price of oil to $32.70
a barrel in January 2009. Oil accounts for about 95 percent of
the sub-Saharan country’s export revenue and about 60 percent of
its gross domestic product.  The IMF, which approved the disbursement Sept. 24, welcomed
authorities’ plans to reduce the non-oil budget deficit after
debt payments. It asked for more details on how the government
will implement tax reforms that are needed to increase non-oil
revenue.  The Washington-based IMF granted Angola a waiver for not
meeting criteria on domestic arrears, while urging authorities
to “implement vigorously their arrears resolution program.”
The unpaid obligations have “created difficulties in both the
real economy and the financial system,” the IMF said.  Broke Off Talks  Angola, an OPEC member that pumps about 1.9 million barrels
a day almost exclusively from deep-water wells offshore, broke
off talks with the IMF in 2007 during the boom. Instead it
sought loans from countries such as China that didn’t require
changes to fiscal policy.  “Plans to establish a sovereign wealth fund are welcome,
given the need to smooth the spending of oil revenues over
time,” IMF’s Portugal said. “The proposed fund will need a
sound institutional framework with clear accountability, well-
specified linkages to fiscal policy and a conservative asset
management strategy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sandrine Rastello  in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
 Colin McClelland  in Toronto at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  