-- BP's U.S. Media Head Said to Leave After Two Months in Role
-- Jim Polson
-- 2010-08-06T15:04:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/anne-womack-bp-s-u-s-media-head-said-to-leave-after-two-months-in-role.html

          
          
             BP Plc , the owner of a Gulf of Mexico
well that caused a record oil spill, is replacing  Anne Womack Kolton  as head of U.S. media relations two months after she was
appointed, two people familiar with the decision said.  
 Kolton, a former spokeswoman for the U.S. Energy Department
and for Vice President  Dick Cheney , is being replaced by  Scott Dean , a 12-year BP veteran who handled communications for the
company’s Texas refinery blast, according to two people who
asked not to be identified because the decision isn’t public.  
 BP yesterday injected cement into the top of the Macondo
well, the first of a two-part effort to permanently plug the
leak, which began after an April 20 explosion aboard a drilling
rig. The explosion killed 11 workers and caused an estimated
4.9-million-barrel leak, the biggest accidental oil spill in
history.  
 Kolton, 34, joined London-based BP on June 1, 42 days after
the Deepwater Horizon exploded. The day she began, the U.S.
Justice Department announced its probe into potential violations
leading up to the spill, and President  Barack Obama  called it
“the greatest environmental disaster of its kind.”  
 Kolton previously worked for Washington-based public
affairs firm APCO Worldwide and for Brunswick Group LLP, a
London-based company that BP has retained for communications
advice. She was also an assistant press secretary for President
 George W. Bush  and press secretary for Cheney during the 2004
presidential campaign.  
 David Nicholas , a spokesman for BP, declined to comment
today on Kolton’s departure.  
 ‘PR Gaffes’  
 BP has retained more Washington lobbyists amid multiple
Congressional and Obama administration investigations of the
spill. The company, whose  shares  have fallen more than 30
percent since the rig exploded, stopped the flow of oil from the
well on July 15, and may complete the cementing process using a
relief well by the end of August, according to National Incident
Commander  Thad Allen .  
 White House Chief of Staff  Rahm Emanuel  said on June 20 the
company has had a “long line of PR gaffes and mistakes” after
its chief executive officer,  Tony Hayward , was photographed at a
yacht race. BP said last month Hayward would be replaced by
 Robert Dudley  on Oct. 1.  
 Kolton, who has three children and lives in the Washington
area with her husband, was commuting to Houston for the job. She
is taking a job in Washington, said one of the people familiar.  
 Kolton was brought to BP to replace  Ronnie Chappell , who
retired in mid-March. Chappell, who had been based in Houston,
coordinated BP’s media response to an explosion at the company’s
Texas City refinery in 2005, which killed 15 workers.  
 Dean, 47, has been leading BP’s U.S. media operations since
July, according to a person familiar. He is based in Chicago and
has been with BP since it acquired Amoco, his previous employer,
in 1998. Dean is a graduate of the University of Michigan, where
he earned a bachelor’s degree in 1985.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jessica Resnick-Ault  in New York at 
 jresnickault@bloomberg.net ;
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        