-- Archer Daniels, Potash, Eagle Bulk May Reap Rewards of Russia's Wheat Ban
-- Shruti Date Singh
-- 2010-08-06T16:10:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/archer-daniels-potash-eagle-bulk-may-reap-rewards-of-russia-s-wheat-ban.html

          
          
             Archer Daniels Midland Co. ,  Potash
Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.  and  Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc.  stand to
benefit after Russia, the fifth-largest wheat grower, banned
exports of the grain because of its worst drought in 50 years.  
 ADM, the world’s biggest grain processor, can step in to
ease the shortage in Russia, Credit Suisse Group AG said.
Fertilizer producers will gain from higher sales of crop
nutrients to farmers, said Joe Needham, a vice president at
grains processor  The Andersons Inc.  Cereal producers  Kellogg Co .
and  General Mills Inc.  may raise prices to pass on higher costs.  
 “This is good for U.S. farmers and U.S. agribusiness,”
Needham said in a telephone interview. “If you ramp up
production, they will have to buy seed, they will use more
fertilizer and elevators will handle the grain.”  
 Wheat futures in Chicago surged to a 23-month high as a
record heat wave in Russia is predicted to cut the country’s
grain  output  by 28 percent from a year ago. Flooding has ruined
wheat in Canada while dry weather has damaged crops in
Kazakhstan, Ukraine and the European Union.  
 The U.S., the world’s fourth-biggest grower and largest
 exporter  of wheat, will produce 2.2 billion bushels in the year
that started June 1, the Department of Agriculture  forecast  July
9. That compared with a June estimate of 2.1 billion bushels.  
 “You have a situation unlike anything that I’ve seen in
the 35 years I’ve been trading in the grain markets,” said
 Dennis Gartman , an economist and editor of the Gartman Letter.
“This is going to be one of the great years for American
agriculture probably in history. Let’s not mince words here.”  
 Corn Gains  
 Wheat for December delivery rose 9.75 cents, or 1.2
percent, to $8.25 a bushel at 9:14 a.m. on the Chicago Board of
Trade. Earlier it reached $8.68, the highest intraday price
since August 2008. Corn and soybeans both headed for their
second straight weekly gain.  
 “Strength in wheat futures is already spilling over into
the other commodity pits,” said  Mark Gulley , a New York-based
analyst with Soleil Securities who covers Potash Corp. “As corn
and other crop prices go up, affordability improves, and that’s
a direct benefit to fertilizer producers.”  
 Shares of Saskatoon, Saskatchewan-based  Potash Corp ., the
biggest maker of the mineral used in fertilizer, climbed $1.89,
or 1.7 percent, to $116.13 at 10 a.m. in New York. Competing
potash suppliers Mosaic Co. and Agrium Inc., also advanced.  
 Arbitrage Opportunities  
 Eagle Bulk Chief Executive Officer  Sophocles Zoullas  said
in a conference call yesterday that the New York-based shipper
is seeing a stronger market for moving grains. Decatur,
Illinois-based ADM’s shares will rise because of “outsized
arbitrage opportunities” in the wheat market, Credit Suisse
Group analyst  Rob Moskow  said in an Aug. 3 note.  
 ADM  rose 1.6 percent to $30.74 after gaining the most since
May 2009 yesterday.  Eagle Bulk  climbed 2 cents to $4.99 on the
Nasdaq Stock Market.  
 “Any industry that touches on grains, especially from a
production standpoint, and from an input supply standpoint for
instance, are going to benefit,” said Kenrick Jordan, chief
economist at BMO Financial Group in Toronto. He said Deere &
Co., the largest farm equipment maker, will gain from the
increase in production spurred by the price rally.  
 U.S. wheat exports may be as much as 4 percent above the 1
billion bushels forecast for the year that started in June by
the USDA after Russia banned grain exports from Aug. 15 to Dec.
31, said CHS Inc., the largest U.S. cooperative grain marketer.  
 ‘Sad Situation’  
 Saudi Arabia and Turkey generally buy wheat from Russia and
Canada, where production is expected to drop because of wet
weather, said Roger Baker, head of CHS’s North America wheat-
trading desk in St. Paul, Minnesota. Both countries will now
switch to the U.S., increasing the company’s exports, he said.  
 “In order for farmers to capitalize, another farmer has to
take a loss,” said Ron Suppes, a farmer who grows wheat on
3,000 acres in Kansas. “It’s a sad situation.”  
 The European Union is the world’s largest wheat producer
followed by China and India in the 2010-2011 crop year,
according to the USDA.  
 “If there is a poor wheat crop, the world will have to
come back to the U.S. for wheat exports” as it did in 2007 and
2008,  Steven R. Mills , ADM’s chief financial officer, said in a
conference call Aug. 3. ADM spokeswoman Beth Chandler declined
to comment.  
 Still, the rally in wheat prices will be limited as farmers
globally likely will ramp up production, Needham said.  
 Bread, Cookies  
 “It’s the only crop in the world that’s planted somewhere
in world every day and a new crop is harvested somewhere in the
world every day,” Needham said. “In wheat, it’s generally a
temporary shortfall.”  
 Food companies may raise retail prices on surging wheat
costs. Wheat is a “big factor” for companies such as Kellogg,
where wheat makes up about 8 percent of its total costs, said
 Christopher Growe , an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus in St. Louis.  
 “If wheat prices stay up around $7, it would likely prompt
price increases in categories such as bread, cookies, and
crackers,” Growe said.  
 Kirstie Foster , a General Mills spokeswoman, said the
company doesn’t comment on commodities or pricing.  Kris Charles ,
a Kellogg spokeswoman, said the company doesn’t address how it
manages specific commodities.  
 “The question is how long wheat prices will stay where
they are,” Bob Lindon, executive vice president at Connell
Commodities, a Naperville, Illinois-based advisory firm for food
companies, said in an interview. “Food companies may wait this
out and see how the market settles before they have price
increases.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shruti Singh  in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A John Deere combine harvests wheat near McPherson, Kansas, June 30, 2009. Photographer: Larry W. Smith/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 5 (Bloomberg) -- Kenrick Jordan, senior economist at BMO Financial Group, discusses the outlook for wheat.
     Wheat rose to a 23-month high in Chicago as Russia, the world’s third-biggest grower, banned exports because of the country’s worst drought in at least a half-century. Jordan speaks with Matt Miller and Lizzie O'Leary on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
