-- Argentine Bonds Post Longest Winning Streak in 19 Months on Growth Outlook
-- Boris Korby
-- 2010-08-06T20:41:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/argentine-bonds-post-longest-winning-streak-in-19-months-on-growth-outlook.html

          
          
             Argentina benchmark dollar bond
yields headed toward a fifth straight weekly drop, the longest
decline since January 2009, as a commodities rally boosted
growth prospects in South America’s second-biggest economy.  
 The  average yield  on international government bonds tumbled
28 basis points, or 0.28 percentage point, this week to 10.16
percent, the lowest since June 2008, according to JPMorgan Chase
& Co. The yield has dropped 147 basis points over the past five
weeks.  
 Economy Minister  Amado Boudou  on Aug. 4 raised his growth
forecast for this year to 7 percent, which would be the biggest
expansion since 2007, from about 6 percent. A record soybean
harvest and a 25 percent increase in auto exports in July from a
year earlier are accelerating an economy the government says
grew 0.9 percent in 2009.  
 “As growth goes higher, obviously the financial position
of the government becomes much more sustainable and flexible,”
said  Enrique Alvarez , head of Latin America fixed-income
research at IDEAglobal in New York. “The growth side is very
positive.”  
 Debt Restructuring  
 A five-week-long surge in prices on Argentine commodity
exports boosted  tax revenue  39 percent last month from a year
earlier to 37.3 billion pesos ($9.5 billion). The government’s
restructuring of $12.9 billion in defaulted debt in June
prompted Boudou to say Argentina may sell international bonds
this year for the first since it halted payment on $95 billion
of debt in 2001.  
 Argentina is the world’s second-biggest exporter of corn
and the third-biggest producer of soybeans. The country’s
farmers harvested a record 55 million metric tons of soybeans
this year, nearly all of which faces a 35 percent tax. Corn rose
to a 13-month high and soybeans rallied to their highest since
January this week following a worsening drought in Russia.  
 The debt restructuring prompted Fitch Ratings to boost the
country’s credit rating to B, or five levels below investment
grade, from default. The bond swap also led Threadneedle Asset
Management Ltd., which has almost $100 billion under management,
to increase its “overweight” position in Argentina in recent
weeks, said  Agnes Belaisch , a London-based emerging-market
strategist with the firm.  
 GDP Warrants  
 Further gains may be limited by concern about central bank
independence, the credibility of the government’s economic
statistics and the country’s $6.7 billion in defaulted debt with
the Paris Club group of creditor nations, said Belaisch, a
former senior economist with the International Monetary Fund.  
 “The slope is positive, but they haven’t reached a level
that I would feel really comfortable with Argentina as a long-
term investment,” Belaisch said.  
 Economic growth may reach 8 percent this year, according to
a July 12 report by Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  
 Boudou’s revised forecast helped propel Argentine warrants
linked to economic growth to their highest price since June
2008, said  Carola Sandy , a Latin America economist with Credit
Suisse Group AG in New York. Warrants climbed 0.95 cent this
week to 10.63 U.S. cents as of 4:27 p.m. New York time.  
 The peso rose 0.3 percent this week, the biggest weekly
gain since December, to 3.93 per dollar.  
 Five-year credit-default swaps tied to Argentine debt rose
2 basis points this week to 794. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt. Credit-
default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  
 Cordoba Sale  
 The extra yield investors demand to own Argentine
government bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell 53 basis
points, or 0.53 percentage point, this week to 654, according to
JPMorgan. It’s declined from 846 on July 1.  
 “The tightening of the spread has to do with declining
risk aversion in the markets in general,” said Sandy, who
estimates the economy will expand 6.2 percent this year. “It
has to do with improved market sentiment toward the country
after the swap.”  
 The central province of Cordoba plans to sell seven-year
bonds in international markets as soon as this week, according
to a person familiar with the offering who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t set.  
 The yield on Argentine dollar bonds due in 2017 fell 21
basis points this week to 9.86 percent, its lowest since they
were issued to creditors as part of the debt swap.  
 Boudou postponed plans to sell as much as $1 billion worth
of the notes during the debt exchange, saying the country
wouldn’t accept a yield of 10 percent or above. Argentina has
“no financial urgency” to sell bonds and will do so when
“it’s good for Argentina, not because it’s good for
creditors,” Boudou told reporters in Buenos Aires on Aug. 4.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Drew Benson  in Buenos Aires at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net ;
 Boris Korby  in New York at 
 Bkorby1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Amado Boudou  
                       
                         
                           Diego Levy/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Amado Boudou, economy minister of Argentina, speaks during an interview in his office in Buenos Aires. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Amado Boudou, economy minister of Argentina, speaks during an interview in his office in Buenos Aires. Photographer: Diego Levy/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 4 (Bloomberg) -- Walter Molano, head of research at BCP Securities, discusses Argentina’s economic recovery and the outlook for Greece’s sovereign debt.
     Molano talks with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg Television’s “InsideTrack.” (Source: Bloomberg) 
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
