-- Harper Sees No `Indication' Canada Needs Second Economic Stimulus Package
-- Alexandre Deslongchamps
-- 2010-08-06T16:31:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/harper-sees-no-indication-canada-needs-second-economic-stimulus-package.html

          
          
             Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  said there is no “indication” the country needs a
second stimulus package amid signs the recovery is slowing,
adding he is “monitoring” the situation.  
 “At the moment, I certainly don’t see any indication of a
second stimulus,” Harper told reporters today in Ottawa. “We
will of course monitor these things.”  
 The Bank of Canada said economic growth probably slowed in
the second quarter to about half the pace in the first three
months of the year, raising expectations the central bank may
decrease the pace at which it raises interest rates.  
 The slowdown is prompting opposition parties and provincial
leaders to question whether the government may need to consider
a new stimulus package. Liberal leader  Michael Ignatieff  said
July 30 in a Bloomberg interview that it’s too early to “shut
the door” on additional stimulus as new spending measures may
be needed to fuel the recovery.  
 Statistics Canada said today the country lost 9,300 jobs in
July, the first decline this year, with the unemployment rate
rising to 8 percent from 7.9 percent. Canada’s economy has
 created  393,700 jobs since July 2009, the agency said.  
 “The job numbers today indicate what we have been saying;
the global recovery remains fragile,” Harper said. “It’s not
going to be all smooth sailing. The trend lines have generally
been good.”  
 Focus on Deficit  
 Harper said the Bank of Canada’s recent steps to reduce
stimulus in the economy is a “strong” indication the
government’s focus should be on reducing the deficit.  
 Separately, Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said today the
government will cut the country’s debt-to-output ratio with a
“clear-cut” exit strategy to return the budget back to
balance.  
 The country will end the current stimulus in March,
implement targeted measures to limit program spending and review
government administration and overhead costs to identify
possible savings, Flaherty said in a speech in Orillia, Ontario.  
 The Bank of Canada raised its key interest rate for the
second month in a row on July 20, to 0.75 percent, and Governor
 Mark Carney  said two days later that “elevated” economic risks
mean any further moves would be “weighed carefully.” The
bank’s policy makers next meet on Sept. 8.  
 Economic Growth  
 Canada’s economy grew  at a 6.1 percent annualized first-
quarter pace. Growth is projected at 3 percent in the second
quarter and 2.8 percent in the third quarter, according to the
Bank of Canada.  
 Harper’s government released a fiscal plan in March that
eliminated tariffs for manufacturing imports and confirmed a
schedule for corporate tax cuts that Canada says will give it
the lowest tax rate in the Group of Seven. The governing
Conservatives have pledged to balance the budget within five
years by controlling spending for defense, international aid and
government operations.  
 The Liberals are proposing the government eliminate the
corporate tax cuts, which Ignatieff claims reduce the
government’s ability to manage any further slowdown.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Theophilos Argitis  in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        