-- Asian Stocks Rise for Fifth Week; Cheung Kong, Hutchison Climb on Earnings
-- Anna Kitanaka
-- 2010-08-06T10:09:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/asian-stocks-fall-on-unexpected-rise-in-u-s-jobless-claims-sony-declines.html

          
          
             Asian  stocks  rose, driving the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index to its fifth weekly advance, as investor
expectations of improving corporate earnings in the region
overshadowed concerns that employment in the U.S. will falter.  
 Cheung Kong (Holdings) Ltd. , Hong Kong’s second-biggest
developer by value, and its Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. affiliate
jumped at least 3.9 percent in Hong Kong on better-than-
estimated profit.  NTT DoCoMo Inc. , Japan’s largest mobile-phone
operator, climbed 2.9 percent on speculation it will be allowed
to offer use of Apple Inc.’s iPhone 4 on its network. South
Korea’s  Hyundai Motor Co.  led exporters lower ahead of a U.S.
payrolls report that economists forecast will show a decline.  
 “Overall earnings have been good so far,” said  Hidehiro Tomioka , who helps manage about $306 billion in Tokyo at MFC
Global Investment Management (Japan) Ltd. “The markets are now
looking ahead. Employment statistics out of the U.S. are
somewhat volatile.”  
 Almost five stocks rose for every four that declined in the
 MSCI Asia Pacific Index , which gained 0.3 percent to 121.86 as
of 7:08 p.m. in Tokyo. The measure has climbed 2.3 percent this
week. The gauge has lost 5.6 percent from its high this year on
April 15 on concern Europe’s debt crisis and China’s steps to
curb property prices will slow global economic growth.  
 Japan’s  Topix Index  gained 0.5 percent. China’s Shanghai
Composite Index increased 1.4 percent and Hong Kong’s Hang Seng
Index rose 0.6 percent. Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index  and South
Korea’s Kospi Index were little changed.  
 ‘Anemic Recovery’  
 Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  were little
changed. The index fell 0.1 percent yesterday after government
data showed initial jobless claims rose by the most since April.
The U.S. economy faces an “anemic recovery” and the government
will need to enact more stimulus measures, Nobel Prize-winning
economist  Joseph E. Stiglitz  said in an interview yesterday.  
 “The global economy remains vulnerable to a number of
uncertainties and destabilizing forces,” Hong Kong billionaire
 Li Ka-shing  said yesterday. “Nevertheless, the overall outlook
for the global economy is likely to remain generally stable.”  
 Li made the comments after Cheung Kong and Hutchison, his
two biggest companies, reported better-than-estimated earnings.  
 Hutchison , which reported a 12 percent increase in first-
half net income, jumped 9.7 percent to HK$58.20. Cheung Kong
gained 3.9 percent to HK$100.40. The company’s first-half profit
rose 4 percent. Li said he’s “very optimistic” about his
companies’ prospects and has been buying shares in them.  
 Tokyo Office Vacancies  
 Japanese developers advanced for a second day after an
industry report yesterday showed a decline in Tokyo’s office
vacancies.  Mitsubishi Estate Co. , Japan’s biggest developer by
market value, gained 2.7 percent to 1,311 yen. Mitsui Fudosan
Co., the No. 2, rose 3.9 percent to 1,392 yen.  
 “We remain bullish on the sector,”  Takashi Hashimoto , an
analyst at Barclays Capital in Tokyo, wrote in a report
yesterday. “Earnings among real estate leasing companies will
bottom in the year ending March 2011 and recover the following
year.”  
 NTT DoCoMo  advanced 2.9 percent to 140,900 yen after the
Nikkei newspaper said Japan Communications Inc. will soon start
a service that allows Apple Inc.’s iPhone 4 to be used on the
DoCoMo network. The company added 145,100 subscribers last month,
industry data released today showed.  
 Beating Estimates  
 Forty percent of the MSCI Asia Pacific Index’s companies
that  reported profit  since July 12 have beaten analysts’
estimates, while 25 percent have missed. Stock gains have driven
the average value of companies in the gauge to 14.3 times
estimated earnings, near the highest level in about five weeks.  
 Rinnai Corp. , a Japanese maker of gas appliances, climbed
5.1 percent to 5,100 yen after reporting a 78 percent jump in
quarterly profit.  Kajima Corp. , a Japanese construction company,
increased 3.3 percent to 218 yen after reporting first-quarter
net income more than doubled.  
 Hallenstein Glasson Holdings Ltd.  jumped 6.1 percent to
NZ$3.82 in Wellington after the clothing retailer said full-year
pretax profit rose at least 55 percent as margins improved.
 Western Mining Co. , China’s fourth-biggest zinc producer, rose
3.4 percent to 11.35 yuan in Shanghai after reporting a 13-fold
increase in first-half profit.  
 “Earnings have been strong but there’s a question of
sustainability,” said  Lee King Fuei , Singapore-based fund
manager at Schroders Plc, which held $245 billion of assets as
of June. “Going forward, earnings growth is going to be much
more difficult as the economic environment becomes sluggish.”  
 Exporters Fall  
 Speculation the U.S. will fall into its second recession in
three years contributed to the MSCI Asia Pacific Index’s drop
from its April high. Economists predict that a U.S. government
report later today will show employers cut 65,000 jobs in July,
after trimming 125,000 positions the previous month.  
 Hyundai Motor, South Korea’s biggest automaker, dropped 2.4
percent to 143,000 won. Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co.,
the world’s biggest maker of customized chips, lost 1.6 percent
to NT$60.9.  Fanuc Ltd. , the Japanese industrial-robot maker that
gets 18 percent of its revenue from North America, declined 1.2
percent to 10,260 yen in Tokyo.  
 Mitsumi Electric Co., which supplies parts to Nintendo Co.,
slumped 8.3 percent to 1,289 yen, the second- biggest decline  on
the MSCI Asia Pacific Index. The company cut its full-year
profit forecast by 89 percent, citing lower-than-expected demand
for “amusement-related” products.  
 Gome Electrical Appliances Holdings Ltd., China’s second-
largest electronics retailer, plunged 12 percent to HK$2.40, the
 biggest decline  on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index. The company said
it’s suing founder  Huang Guangyu , once China’s richest man, over
share repurchases and breach of trust.  
 Terumo Corp. , a Japanese maker of medical devices,
decreased 3.3 percent to 4,585 yen after reporting a 19 percent
decline in first-quarter net income.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan Burgos  in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
 Anna Kitanaka  in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Asian Stocks Fall on U.S. Jobless Claims  
                       
                         
                           Seokyong Lee/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Hyundai Motor Co. automobile frames are stacked at the company's factory in Asan, South Korea. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Hyundai Motor Co. automobile frames are stacked at the company's factory in Asan, South Korea. Photographer: Seokyong Lee/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
