-- Stocks Fall, Treasuries Rally on Payroll Data; Dollar Slumps
-- Stephen Kirkland
-- 2010-08-06T20:30:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/asia-stocks-fluctuate-before-u-s-payrolls-wheat-rises-to-two-year-high.html

          
          
             Stocks  and the dollar dropped and
Treasuries rallied, sending the yield on the two-year note below
0.5 percent for the first time, as lower-than-estimated growth
in company payrolls added to evidence the economic recovery is
slowing. Gold extended the longest advance since November.  
 The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 0.4 percent to
1,121.64 at 4 p.m. in New York, trimming a drop of as much as
1.7 percent.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index  decreased 1.1 percent,
reversing earlier gains. Two-year Treasury yields fell to as low
as 0.4977 percent. The dollar slumped to an eight-month low
against the yen and decreased against 13 of 16 major peers.  
 The S&P 500 trimmed its weekly advance to 1.8 percent after
private payrolls that exclude government agencies rose by
71,000, less than forecast, after a gain of 31,000 in June that
was revised lower. The data added to concern the world’s largest
economy has been slow in recouping the 8.4 million jobs lost
since the recession began in December 2007, preventing consumer
spending from accelerating.  
 “The jobs data is the key variable right now to the
improving economy and an important indicator to the market --
it’s mildly disappointing,” said  Eric Teal , chief investment
officer at First Citizens Bancshares Inc. in Raleigh, North
Carolina, which manages $4.5 billion. “We’re just in a soft
patch now. I just don’t expect to see strong improvement there
until we get some of the larger macro issues behind us.”  
 GE, Home Depot  
 Equities pared losses as the Federal Housing Administration
said it will begin to accept applications for a program to help
struggling mortgage borrowers.  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co., International Business Machines Corp.
and Exxon Mobil Corp. led the drop in the Dow Jones Industrial
Average, falling at least 1.2 percent each. The index slipped
21.42 points, or 0.2 percent, to 10,653.56, ending the week with
a gain of 1.8 percent.  
 Earlier gains in stocks this week came amid better-than-
estimated earnings. Per-share profit for S&P 500 companies has
grown by 51 percent from the previous year and has beaten
estimates at 78 percent of companies that have reported since
July 12.  
 The recovery in jobs “continues to be anemic growth --more
anemic than expected,” said  Richard Sichel , who oversees $1.4
billion as chief investment officer at Philadelphia Trust Co.
“The timing is interesting because we’re through earnings
season and earnings was tremendous and propelled the market in
the last few weeks. Now it’s let’s look at the economy -- what
it is this morning, this is one of the A-list indicators and
it’s disappointing.”  
 Yield Curve Signals  
 U.S. Treasuries rallied after the jobs report on
speculation that a stalled recovery may force the Federal
Reserve to provide more stimulus.  Bill Gross , founder and co-
chief investment officer of Pacific Investment Management Co.,
said a plunge in the two-year yield indicates investors should
buy longer-maturity securities.  
 The yield on the 10-year note decreased eight basis points
to 2.82 percent. The extra yield investors demand to hold 10-
year notes instead of 2-year debt dropped five basis points to
232 basis points. It fell to 227.5 basis points on July 1,
reflecting the flattest yield curve since October.  
 “When you analyze that portion of the curve, it says the
Fed is on hold for a long, long time,” Gross said today during
a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .  
 Canadian Dollar  
 The Dollar Index, which tracks the U.S. currency against
those of six trading partners, fell 0.6 percent and has dropped
1.5 percent over the past five days as it heads for a ninth
weekly drop, the longest run of declines since 2004. The dollar
lost at least 0.8 percent versus the euro and Swiss franc and
earlier fell to 85.02 yen, the lowest level since Nov. 27.  
 Currencies of major commodity-producing nations retreated
against the dollar, with the Canadian, Mexican and Brazilian
currencies losing at least 0.3 percent.  
 The Canadian dollar weakened against all but one of 16
major counterparts, losing 1.9 percent versus the Swiss franc
the euro and the Danish krone, after jobs data in that country
also trailed estimates. Canadian payrolls shrank by 9,300 jobs
in July, the first drop this year, Statistics Canada said.
Twenty-one of 22 economists in a Bloomberg survey had forecast a
gain in employment.  
 Gold futures for December delivery rose 0.7 percent to
$1,207.50 an ounce, an eighth straight gain, on the Comex in New
York. Earlier, gold reached $1,213.30, the highest level for a
most-active contract since July 16.  
 All 19 industry groups in the Stoxx 600 declined, with
Banco Santander SA and Nestle SA dropping at least 1 percent.
Anheuser-Busch InBev NV slipped 3.9 percent, pacing brewing
companies lower after wheat yesterday surged near the highest
level in almost two years.  
 Wheat Retreats  
 Wheat futures tumbled 7.4 percent to $7.5525 a bushel in
Chicago on speculation that farmers will boost acreage next year
following Russia’s ban on grain exports amid its worst drought
in at least 50 years.  
 U.S. wheat for September delivery has rallied 49 percent
since the end of June amid concern supply in Russia will be
constrained. The grain is trading at the highest premium over
corn since April 2008 at export terminals in New Orleans,
government data show.  
 China led gains in major emerging markets. The Shanghai
Composite Index rose 1.4 percent as agricultural companies
advanced after floods boosted food prices. The  MSCI Emerging
Market Index  of 21 developing nations fell 0.6 percent,
reversing an earlier gain.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kelly Bit  in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephen Kirkland  in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       A trader on the floor of the NYSE  
                       
                         
                           Jin Lee/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A trader works on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange in New York. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A trader works on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange in New York. Photographer: Jin Lee/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 6 (Bloomberg) -- Nicholas Colas, chief market strategist at BNY ConvergEx Group LLC, and Michael Gurka, a trader at BruinHill Partners, discuss the outlook for the U.S. economy, stock and bond markets, and investment strategy.
     They speak with Matt Miller, Lizzie O'Leary, Dominic Chu and Adam Johnson on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 6 (Bloomberg) -- Bill Gross, manager of the world's biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co., talks about the outlook for the U.S. unemployment rate and the need for U.S. policy changes.
     Gross, speaking with Tom Keene on Bloomberg Radio's "Bloomberg Surveillance," also discusses investment strategy. (This is an excerpt of the full interview. Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 6 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Gigi Stone reports on the performance of the U.S. equity market today.
     U.S. stocks tumbled, paring a weekly advance for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, after weaker-than-forecast growth in company payrolls suggested a rebound in corporate profits may stall. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 6 (Bloomberg) -- Stephen P. Wood, chief market strategist at Russell Investments, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about his investment strategy.
     Speaking from New York, Wood also discusses the U.S. economy and job market. U.S. stocks slipped, pulling the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index down from an almost three-month high, as an unexpected increase in jobless claims fueled concern the economic recovery is slowing. (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
