-- Asian Currencies Climb for a Third Week as Improving Economies Draw Funds
-- Patricia Lui
-- 2010-08-06T09:40:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/asian-currencies-set-for-third-weekly-gain-as-pace-of-growth-draws-funds.html

          
          
             Asian currencies strengthened for a
third week, led by South Korea’s won and Malaysia’s ringgit, as
signs the U.S. recovery is losing traction spurred demand for
assets in the faster-growing economies of the world.  
 The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index rose to a 12-week
high after U.S. reports this week showed slides in factory
orders and home sales. Thailand’s government forecast the
fastest economic growth since 1995, Indonesia reported the
biggest increase in gross domestic product in almost two years
and Korean exports climbed for a ninth month.  
 “Sentiment on the U.S. is turning bearish and if you are a
long-term investor looking for where to put your capital, it’s
most likely this part of the world,” said  Charles Han , Hong
Kong-based head of foreign-exchange trading at Newedge Financial
HK Ltd. “That’s supportive for Asian currencies.”  
 South Korea’s won appreciated 1.8 percent to 1,161.90 per
dollar in Seoul, today touching an 11-week high of 1,161.78,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Malaysia’s ringgit rose
1.4 percent to 3.1485 as of 5 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur, having
reached a two-year high of 3.1415.  
 The Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the region’s 10 most-
used currencies excluding the yen, advanced 0.4 percent and the
 MSCI Asia Pacific Index  of shares climbed 2.3 percent. Overseas
investors bought $864 million more Taiwan shares than they sold
this week, lifting net purchases for 2010 to almost $2.8 billion,
exchange data show. India had net inflows in the first three
days of the week, taking the year’s tally to almost $11 billion.  
 ‘Quite Impressive’  
 The Thai baht had its best weekly performance against the
dollar in five months after Finance Minister Korn Chatikavanij
said on Aug. 4 that Southeast Asia’s biggest economy may expand
as much as 8 percent in 2010, more than a June estimate of a
maximum 6 percent.  
 Thailand’s central bank also indicated policy makers may
add to the first increase in borrowing costs in almost two years,
boosting the attraction of holding baht. “The economy has
recovered well, so there is no need to use low interest rates,”
Governor Tarisa Watanagase said this week.  
 The baht rose 0.7 percent in the five days to 32.07 per
dollar and touched 32.04, a level not seen since May 2008.  
 Thailand’s “growth forecast was quite impressive, and
there is more room for stocks to rise,” said  Paisarn Lertkowit ,
a currency trader at Bangkok Bank Pcl, the country’s biggest
lender. “When you compare this with other regions, only Asia
has a pretty impressive growth outlook.”  
 ‘Attractive Investment’  
 There’s also the prospect of higher interest rates in South
Korea, where the central bank is scheduled to review borrowing
costs on Aug. 12. Six of 11 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg
predict the seven-day repurchase rate will be raised by a
quarter of a percentage point to 2.5 percent, following a
similar-sized increase from a record low in July.  
 The nation’s finance ministry yesterday estimated July’s
current-account surplus was about $4 billion, which would be the
second-highest amount this year. June’s total was $5.04 billion.  
 “There’s been a lot of recent data that shows the won is
an attractive investment,” said  Sung Jae Man , a currency
analyst at Tong Yang Securities Inc. in Seoul. He said the
central bank was suspected of intervening to limit appreciation
in the won, which is Asia’s top performer of the past month with
a 5.1 percent gain.  
 The ringgit had its largest weekly advance in almost three
months after the government yesterday indicated it will tolerate
currency appreciation as the economy improves. Trade Minister
Mustapa Mohamed said the ringgit has been moving “in line”
with economic fundamentals, with growth set to accelerate to 6
percent in 2010. Gross domestic product fell 1.7 percent in 2009.  
 “The brighter prospects in Asia are in contrast to the
recent weakness in U.S. indicators,” said  Azmi Shukri Rahman , a
foreign-exchange trader at CIMB Investment Bank Bhd. in Kuala
Lumpur.  
 Elsewhere, the Philippine peso rose 1.5 percent to 44.865
versus the greenback, Taiwan’s dollar advanced 0.7 percent to
NT$31.819 and India’s rupee appreciated 0.7 percent to 46.10.
Indonesia’s rupiah was little changed at 8,946.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Lui  at 
 plui4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        