-- MassMutual Skips Retained Accounts, Cuts Beneficiaries a Check
-- Alexis Leondis
-- 2010-08-06T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/massmutual-skips-retained-accounts-cuts-beneficiaries-a-check.html

          
          
             Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance
Co.,  Aflac Inc.  and  Hartford Financial Services Group Inc.  are
among U.S. life insurers that buck the industry practice of
automatically holding onto death benefits.  
 MassMutual, a policyholder-owned carrier in Springfield,
Massachusetts, Aflac in Columbus, Georgia, and Hartford in the
Connecticut city of the same name, automatically send survivors
a bank check for insurance proceeds after death claims are
approved, according to company spokesmen. Other insurers
generally keep the cash in their retained-asset accounts and
issue the survivors checkbooks, which are essentially IOUs,
Bloomberg Markets magazine reported on July 28.  
 “These accounts were invented not to help consumers, but
to help insurance companies,” said  Bob Hunter , director of
insurance for the Consumer Federation of America in Washington.
“I can’t think of any reason why you wouldn’t want a lump-sum
payout.”  
 MetLife Inc.  in New York, the biggest U.S. life insurer,
and No. 2  Prudential Financial Inc.  usually keep the money in
retained-asset accounts, which aren’t backed by the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. and may pay uncompetitive rates.  
 If survivors ask for lump-sum distributions, Prudential
will write them a check, said  Bob DeFillippo , a spokesman for
the Newark, New Jersey-based company. They can also withdraw
some or all of the money immediately from the account by writing
a check to themselves and depositing or cashing it at their
local bank, DeFillippo said.  Christopher Breslin , a spokesman
for MetLife, didn’t return phone calls seeking comment.  
 FDIC Risk  
 Beneficiaries of policies with New York Life Insurance Co.,
Milwaukee-based Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Co. and
 Genworth Financial Inc.  in Richmond, Virginia, can elect lump-
sum payouts of death benefits, and if they don’t, the money will
be placed in the accounts, according to company spokesmen.  
 More than 70 percent of beneficiaries at New York Life
select the lump-sum payment, according to  William Werfelman , a
spokesman for the New York-based firm. More than 90 percent of
beneficiaries choose the lump-sum distribution at Genworth, said
Deborah Pont, a spokeswoman for the insurer.  
 At  TIAA-CREF  Life Insurance Co., the New York-based
carrier, survivors also can opt for a lump-sum payment, said
 Jennifer Compton , a company spokeswoman. If they don’t, they’ll
receive a checkbook for an account that is currently paying 4
percent interest and resets annually, she said.  
 Beneficiaries may want to weigh the interest rates offered
on retained-asset accounts and decide if the rate is high enough
for the risk of forgoing FDIC insurance, said Lawrence Baxter,
professor of the practice of law at Duke University School of
Law in Durham, North Carolina.  
 1% Interest  
 If insurance companies fail, state insurance departments
are supposed to back life policies by raising money from other
carriers that do business in their state. No states keep track
of how much money insurers are holding in retained assets,
Bloomberg Markets reported.  
 USAA Life Insurance Co., a subsidiary of San Antonio-based
USAA, has a payout policy that differs from some other insurers.
Benefits are paid in a lump sum or deposited into the company’s
savings bank, which is FDIC insured, said Eric Smith, president
of USAA Life. The firm provides insurance primarily to the
military and their families.  
 Unum Group  based in Chattanooga, Tennessee, pays all
policies under $10,000 as a lump-sum disbursement. Benefits from
individual policies also are paid out directly to survivors,
while the proceeds from group policies purchased by employers
are administered via retained-asset accounts. About 60 percent
of claims are kept in these accounts, which currently pay 1
percent interest, said Mary Clarke Guenther, a spokeswoman for
Unum.  
 Bereaved Beneficiaries  
 The practice of retained-asset accounts allows more than
100 carriers to earn investment income on $28 billion owed to
life insurance beneficiaries. Insurers market the accounts as a
service to allow bereaved beneficiaries time to think about what
they’ll do with the funds. Carriers make money by investing the
funds in bonds and keeping the difference between returns and
the interest they credit to the accounts, Bloomberg Markets
said.  
 About 40 percent of these accounts at the insurance
companies still have money in them a year later, Bloomberg
Markets reported. Since the checks may resemble actual bank
checks, beneficiaries often assume the money is in bank-insured
accounts when it isn’t.  
 “There needs to be improved disclosure requirements,”
said  Jane Cline , president of the National Association of
Insurance Commissioners, in an interview on Bloomberg Television
on Aug 3. “We will be ramping up our consumer-education
initiatives on this.” Insurance companies are regulated by
states, not the federal government.  
 ‘Secret Profits’  
 New York Attorney General  Andrew Cuomo  subpoenaed MetLife
and Prudential last week amid a fraud investigation into what he
called “secret profits.” Genworth, Unum, an insurer acquired
by France’s Axa SA, New York Life, Northwestern and Guardian
Life Insurance Co. of America were also ordered to turn over
information, a person briefed on the demands said last week.
U.S. legislation requiring profit disclosure was also introduced
last week by Representative  Debbie Halvorson , an Illinois
Democrat.  
 “I always thought these accounts were a good thing because
they helped avoid bad investments,” said Glenn Daily, a fee-
only insurance consultant in New York. “But if insurers don’t
always tell you that you can take your money in a lump sum,
shame on them.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexis Leondis  in New York 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Andrew Cuomo, New York attorney general, speaks during a news conference in New York. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 29 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's David Evans talks about New York Attorney General Andrew Cuomo's fraud probe into the life insurance industry.
     Cuomo's office subpoenaed Prudential Financial Inc. and MetLife Inc. for information about profits on death benefits retained from the families of deceased policyholders including military personnel. Cuomo’s investigation was prompted by a Bloomberg Markets magazine report and follows a review by the New York State Insurance Department. Evans speaks with Margaret Brennan and Scarlet Fu on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness". (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 3 (Bloomberg) -- Jane Cline, president of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, talks with Bloomberg's Julie Hyman about insurance companies' so-called retained-asset accounts.
     The NAIC said last week it is reviewing the accounts after Bloomberg Markets reported that the funds allow more than 100 carriers to earn income on $28 billion owed to life insurance beneficiaries. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                      
      

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
