-- Aston Resources Said to Raise 367 Million in IPO, Cuts Share Price 27%
-- Angus Whitley
-- 2010-08-06T08:57:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/aston-resources-said-to-raise-367-million-in-ipo-cuts-share-price-27-.html

          
          
             Aston Resources Pty Ltd., an
Australian coal developer, raised A$400 million ($367 million)
in an initial public offering after cutting the share price by
27 percent, three people with direct knowledge of the sale said.  
 The IPO, Australia’s biggest so far this year, was priced
at A$5.96 a share, down from an initial target of A$8.20,
according to the people, who declined to be identified because
the results haven’t been announced. The number of shares sold
was raised to 67.1 million from 48.8 million, they said.  
 Aston cut the price and delayed the offer, originally
scheduled to close on Aug. 4, because of a shortage of
interested investors, one of the people said.  
 Tim Allerton , a spokesman for Brisbane-based Aston,
declined to comment when telephoned today.  
 The IPO, managed by Goldman Sachs JBWere, Macquarie Capital
Advisers, Credit Suisse Group AG and BKK Partners, is the
biggest in Australia since Myer Holdings Ltd. raised $1.9
billion in October.  
 The cut in Aston’s offer price follows a 6.3 percent drop
this year in Australia’s benchmark  S&P/ASX 200  index of stocks.
Bilfinger Berger AG, Germany’s second-largest building company,
pulled the IPO of Australian unit Valemus Ltd. after investors
balked at the price. Valemus sought to raise as much as A$1.39
billion.  Myer Holdings  hasn’t traded above its issue price since
listing last October.  
 Noble Group  
 Commodity trading house  Noble Group Ltd . will take up a
A$58.8 million stake, or just under 5 percent of Aston,
according to the term sheet for the offer.  
 Net debt following the IPO will be about A$130 million and
market capitalization A$1.2 billion, one of the people said.  
 Aston is controlled by  Nathan Tinkler , Australia’s
wealthiest person under the age of 40, with an estimated fortune
of A$441 million, according to the Business Review Weekly.  
 The company bought the Maules Creek coal project in
February for A$480 million from Rio Tinto Group unit Coal &
Allied Industries Ltd. Aston plans to use the sale proceeds to
repay debt, fund drilling and finance an engineering design for
Maules Creek, in New South Wales.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Elisabeth Behrmann  in London at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
 Angus Whitley  in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        