-- AT&T, Verizon May Pick Texas, Utah for `Mercury' Payments Pilot
-- Margaret Collins
-- 2010-08-06T16:41:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/at-t-verizon-said-to-pick-texas-utah-for-mercury-mobile-payments-pilot.html

          
          
             AT&T Inc.  and  Verizon Wireless , the
two biggest U.S. mobile carriers, picked cities in Texas,
Minnesota and Utah to test a smartphone payments system that may
one day supplant plastic debit and credit cards, according to
two people with direct knowledge of the plan.  
 The venture, which includes  Deutsche Telekom AG  unit T-
Mobile USA as a minority partner, chose Austin, Minneapolis and
Salt Lake City for the project, code-named Mercury, the people
said. A pilot is set to start in the middle of next year, the
people said, speaking anonymously because they are subject to
confidentiality agreements. Atlanta may be a fourth city, other
people have said.  
 “It’s heartening to see,” said  Samee Zafar , who leads the
advanced payments practice at consulting firm Edgar, Dunn & Co.,
in a telephone interview from London today. “The U.S. has been
lagging behind many parts of the world.”  
 The trial would be the carriers’ biggest effort to spur
mobile payments in the U.S. as they target a market dominated by
San Francisco-based  Visa Inc.  and Purchase, New York-based
 MasterCard Inc. , the world’s biggest card networks. The
companies handled $2.45 trillion, or 82 percent, of U.S.
consumer spending on all-purpose cards last year, according to
the  Nilson Report , an industry newsletter.  
 A consumer participating in the pilot would be able to pay
a merchant with the contactless wave of a smartphone equipped
with a radio microchip that communicates with a reader at
checkout. The technology may allow people to forgo plastic cards
and enable retailers to send consumers electronic receipts and
rewards in real-time.  
 Discover, Barclays  
 The phone companies may work with Discover Financial
Services, based in Riverwoods, Illinois, and London-based
 Barclays Plc . The transactions would be processed through
Discover’s payments network, the fourth-biggest behind No. 1
Visa, MasterCard and New York-based  American Express Co. 
Barclays would be the bank helping to manage the accounts,
people with knowledge of the project have said.  
 The people didn’t say why the carriers chose to name the
project Mercury, the Roman god of commerce and travel, among
other things.  
 Visa, MasterCard and American Express aren’t waiting for
the U.S. carriers to offer customers payment-enabled devices.
They’re working to develop their own technology that works with
mobile phones on the market today, seeking a bridge until
embedded chips are standard.  
 Visa, AmEx  
 This year, Visa plans to introduce U.S. consumers to
products that can transform most smartphones, including  Apple
Inc. ’s iPhone, into payment devices able to store multiple card
accounts in an e-wallet.  
 “Visa has made significant progress advancing mobile
payments both in the United States and internationally, with 23
programs already deployed in 19 countries around the world,”
said Jim McCarthy, the company’s global head of product, in an
e-mail.  
 American Express is conducting about 50 tests of mobile-
payments worldwide, Chief Executive Officer  Kenneth I. Chenault 
told investors Aug. 4. So is Mastercard, whose CEO,  Ajay Banga ,
said on an Aug. 3 conference call with analysts, “We’ve got
close to 20 pilot and commercial rollouts around the globe.”  
 Interchange Fees  
 AT&T and Verizon Wireless, are equal partners in the
project and Bellevue, Washington-based T-Mobile has a smaller
stake, one person has said. Verizon Wireless, based in Basking
Ridge, New Jersey, is a joint venture of  Verizon Communications
Inc.  and  Vodafone Group Plc .  
 Mark Siegel , a spokesman for Dallas-based AT&T, declined to
comment, as did Marquett Smith of Verizon Wireless, Reid Walker
of T-Mobile, Discover’s  Leslie Sutton  and Kevin Sullivan of
Barclays.  
 Retailers may be eager to help another network after years
of fighting over transaction fees set by Visa and MasterCard.
Merchants persuaded Congress last month to approve caps on
interchange, or “swipe” fees, for debit transactions and filed
a 2005 federal antitrust lawsuit that is still pending.  
 The venture has been searching for a chief executive
officer to lead the pilot.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Eichenbaum  in New York at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        