-- Atlas Stalls Ridley Iron Ore Mine Sale Pending Australian Election Result
-- Rebecca Keenan
-- 2010-08-06T07:08:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/atlas-stalls-ridley-iron-ore-mine-sale-pending-australian-election-result.html

          
          
             Atlas Iron Ltd. , an Australian iron
ore producer, said it will withhold selling a stake in its
Ridley mine until after the national election later this month
because of uncertainty over a proposed mining tax.  
 Talks are continuing with groups in China, Chief Executive
Officer  David Flanagan  said today, without naming any buyer. The
Perth-based company is looking to sell 50 percent to 80 percent
of the mine in Western Australia’s Pilbara region.  
 “A key issue we are always talking about with these groups
is the tax,” Flanagan told reporters today in Melbourne.
“There’s lots of uncertainty because it is a big investment.”  
 Australia’s Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  scaled back a
proposed 40 percent tax on mining profits to a 30 percent levy
on iron ore and coal earnings after ousting  Kevin Rudd  in June.
Atlas, seeking to expand output fivefold this year, is in talks
with three groups from Asia and the Middle East to sell a stake
in its Ridley project, Flanagan had said earlier.  
 Atlas  gained  2.4 percent to A$2.17 at the close of trade in
Sydney. Of 10 analysts covering the stock, six  recommend 
investors “buy,” while the remaining recommend “hold,”
according to  data  on the Bloomberg.  
 Flanagan said he won’t vote for Gillard’s government in the
national election on Aug. 21. Atlas is a member of the
Association of Mining and Exploration Companies that has resumed
an anti-tax advertising campaign this week.  
 “Given where we are right now, really we can’t afford to
risk having this tax in our country,” Flanagan said. “That
means I won’t be voting for the current labor government.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Keenan  in Melbourne at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        