-- Mattel's Sing-a-ma-jigs Find YouTube Fame as Toys Reach Shelves
-- Allison Abell Schwartz
-- 2010-08-06T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/mattel-sing-a-ma-jigs-find-youtube-fame-as-harmonizing-toys-reach-shelves.html

          
          
             Mattel Inc. ’s newest singing toys are
already rising stars on the Internet.  
 Sing-a-ma-jigs, plush animals that chatter and harmonize,
have been popping up on Youtube.com as retailers add them to
store shelves. In one homemade video, a man sings a duet of
“When the Saints Go Marching In” with a blue Sing-a-ma-jig. In
another, a stuffed toy puppy cuddles with a red Sing-a-ma-jig
after a rendition of “Where Oh Where Has My Little Dog Gone.”  
 Mattel is relying on that word-of-song to promote the toys
instead of an advertising campaign, and said in June that it
doubled production. Since then the El Segundo, California-based
toymaker increased the number of Sing-a-ma-jigs “a little bit
more” as sales show momentum, said  Gina Sirard , vice president
of marketing for Mattel.  
 “We’ve had to go to a few different vendors in Hong Kong
to fill the demand that we currently have,” Sirard said in a
telephone interview. “There seem to be signs that would point
to the fact that this is going to do very well for the holiday
season.”  
 Mattel, also the maker of the Barbie and Fisher-Price toys,
is eyeing a bigger piece of holiday sales, which account for
about 40 percent of the $21.5 billion annual U.S. toy market,
according to researcher NPD Group Inc. in Port Washington, New
York. Mattel had 2009  revenue  of $5.43 billion and doesn’t break
out sales for individual products.  
 Toys “R” Us  
 Sing-a-ma-jigs, which Mattel started selling in February at
25 Toys “R” Us locations for $12.99 each, will be a strong
contender for the retailer’s Holiday Hot Toy List to be released
later this year, said Bob Friedland, a spokesman for Toys “R”
Us. The dolls are now also available at  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. ,
Target Corp. and Kmart.  
 “They have the potential to be one of the hottest products
of the year,” said  Chris Byrne , a New York-based toy-industry
analyst and director of content at TimetoPlayMag.com. “It’s got
all of those components that give you a couple of minutes of
laughter and fun.”  
 For the holiday season, Sing-a-ma-jigs may surpass the
popularity of Zhu Zhu Pets, the Cepia LLC robotic toy hamsters
that sold out last season, Byrne said.  
 Sing-a-ma-jigs are currently available in four colors and
tunes, including a pink doll that sings “Skip to My Lou” and
yellow one that belts out “Home on the Range.” The toys, whose
terrycloth mouths open to reveal a set of teeth, say hello and
start babbling when squeezed. They harmonize when pressed
simultaneously, encouraging shoppers to buy more than one.  
 Mattel plans eight more Sing-a-ma-jigs leading up to the
holiday season. The toys will sing songs such as “For He’s a
Jolly Good Fellow,” “This Little Light of Mine,” and “A-
Tisket A-Tasket,” Mattel’s Sirard said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Allison Abell Schwartz  in New York at 
 aabell@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Mattel's Sing-a-ma-jigs  
                       
                         
                           Jonathan Fickies/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Sing-a-ma-jigs, seen here, Mattel's newest singing toys are already rising stars on the Internet. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Sing-a-ma-jigs, seen here, Mattel's newest singing toys are already rising stars on the Internet. Photographer: Jonathan Fickies/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
