-- Matthews Asia Dividend's Madsen Beats Rivals on China Bet During Crisis
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-08-07T00:26:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/matthews-asia-dividend-s-madsen-beats-rivals-on-china-bet-during-crisis.html

          
          
             (Corrects fund assets in seventh paragraph in a story
that ran on Aug. 6.)  
 Jesper Madsen  took advantage of
the global financial crisis to add Chinese companies to his
Matthews Asia Dividend Fund for the first time, helping the
fund manager beat 97 percent of rivals over the past year.  
 “We didn’t have any weight in mainland companies
going into the crisis,” he said in an interview from San
Francisco. “Small- and medium-sized Chinese companies were
the main driver of our outperformance during the following
12 months. We took advantage of cheap valuations during the
crisis.”  
 China’s economic growth slowed for six straight
quarters amid the credit crisis, weakening to a 6.2 percent
pace in the three months ended March 2009, the slowest pace
in a decade. Gross domestic product started rebounding in
the second quarter of 2009, spurred by Prime Minister  Wen Jiabao ’s 4 trillion yuan ($590 billion) stimulus package
and record bank lending.  MSCI China Small Cap index  jumped
145 percent last year after falling 58 percent in 2008.  
 Madsen, 34, said he bought health-care stocks and
companies in the “consumer space,” without saying what
they were. A measure on the  MSCI China Index  tracking
consumer staples climbed 52 percent in the past year, the
most among 10 industry groups, followed by  drugmakers ,
which gained 49 percent.  
 “Health care has to be built out and consumption has
to grow as a proportion to the economy,” the fund manager
at San Francisco-based Matthews International Capital
Management said.  
 Health-Care Growth  
 China’s leaders have pledged to expand the role of
domestic demand in the economy in a bid to reduce the
reliance on exports after the global crisis hurt trade.
Health-care market growth will accelerate to 20 percent to
25 percent this year, spurred by rising government spending
and increased investment from multinational drugmakers,
 Katherine Lu , director of China equities at Oppenheimer &
Co., said in May.  
 The  Matthews Asia Dividend Fund , which has $1 billion
of assets under management as of July 31 according to the
company, has a one-year return of 27 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The  China Dividend Fund , also
managed by Madsen, has a year-to-date return of 9.2 percent,
beating 87 percent of rival funds.  
 Madsen’s strategy is to buy stocks that offer both
high dividend yields and growth, while carrying low debt.  
 “We like companies with very little debt and
sustainability of dividend payments,” he said yesterday.  
 Jiangsu Expressway Co. , among the 10 biggest stocks in
the China Dividend Fund, according to Bloomberg data, has
jumped 8.4 percent this year, compared with a 1.5 percent
drop in Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index . It has a dividend
yield of 4.7 percent and a five-year dividend growth rate
of 21 percent.  
 ‘More Attractive’  
 “Dividend-paying stocks are becoming more attractive
as Asia delivers higher dividend yields and more
diversification than the U.S.,” he said. “Asia and China
offer higher dividend yields and high growth.”  
 Madsen said that he was cautious on buying shares of
China’s banks even though they offer the highest yields
among all industries in that country.  
 “China’s banks offer dividend yields but there is a
lack of transparency,” he said. “We have a banking system
that is more closed than we like. Without transparency,
they are not particularly attractive even if the yields are
there.”  
 China’s stocks fell yesterday on concern that the
property market may slump further, reducing the  earnings  of
the nation’s banks, after regulators told lenders to gauge
the effect of real-estate prices sliding by as much as 60
percent. The banking regulator told lenders to include
worst-case scenarios of price declines in cities where they
have risen excessively, a person with knowledge of the
matter said. Previous stress tests in the past year assumed
home-price drops of as much as 30 percent.  
 “We are long-term positive on China but are keenly
aware that there are issues that need to be worked out,”
he said. “The financial sector is one of those areas
that’s less Transparent.”  
 -- Allen Wan  in Shanghai. With assistance from Shiyin Chen.
Editors:  Linus Chua ,  Richard Frost   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Allen Wan at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        