-- B2W Extends Brazil's Worst Stock Performance This Year as Profit Slides
-- Alexander Cuadros
-- 2010-08-06T20:20:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/b2w-extends-brazil-s-worst-stock-performance-this-year-as-profit-slides.html

          
          
             B2W Cia. Global do Varejo , Brazil’s
largest online retailer, deepened the worst performance this
year on the benchmark Bovespa index after reporting a drop in
profit.  
 Shares tumbled 7.3 percent to 30.59 reais at the close of
Sao Paulo trading at 4 p.m. New York time. The stock has lost 36
percent this year while the  Bovespa  has slipped 0.7 percent.  
 Net income fell 67 percent in the second quarter to 5
million reais ($2.85 million), even as net sales increased 13
percent, the company said in a statement on its website. The
profit fell short of the average estimate of 8.9 million reais
in a Bloomberg survey of 13 analysts. B2W in May reported a 47
percent drop in first-quarter earnings.  
 The company is “still struggling to find the right trade-
off between growth and profitability,” Raymond James &
Associates Inc. analysts  Daniela Bretthauer  and Marina Braga
wrote in a note to clients today.  
 B2W, based in Rio de Janeiro, also is suffering from an
“increasingly competitive e-commerce environment,” according
to a note today by Barclays Plc analyst  David Belaunde .  
 B2W’s parent  Lojas Americanas SA , Brazil’s biggest discount
retailer, dropped 2.9 percent to 14.30 reais even after
reporting net income that beat analysts’ estimates. Profit in
the second quarter rose to 28.6 million reais, according to a
filing. That’s higher than the average forecast for profit
excluding some items of 11.9 million reais.  
 “People weren’t satisfied with B2W’s numbers and that ends
up impacting the shares of Lojas Americanas, even if it did
well,”  Rafael Cintra , an analyst at Sao Paulo brokerage Link
Investimentos, said by phone.  
 Lojas Americanas has declined 7.9 percent this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Cuadros  in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        