-- BofA Mortgage Repurchase Requests Total $11.1 Billion
-- Jody Shenn
-- 2010-08-06T22:32:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/bank-of-america-repurchase-requests-for-mortage-debt-total-11-1-billion.html

          
          
             Bank of America Corp. , the biggest
U.S. lender by assets, said it has been dealing with a “very
limited” number of requests to repurchase soured mortgages out
of securities lacking government-backed guarantees.  
 Unresolved  mortgage -repurchase requests from all investors
and insurers totaled about $11.1 billion on June 30, the
Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank said today in a  filing  with
the Securities and Exchange Commission. That included $33
million from so-called private-label mortgage-backed securities
transactions, compared with $5.6 billion from government-
sponsored enterprises such as Fannie Mae, $4 billion from bond
insurers and $1.4 billion from other investors, the bank said.  
 “The corporation and its legacy companies have very
limited experience with private label MBS repurchases as the
number of repurchase requests received has been very limited,”
Bank of America said. The company bought Countrywide Financial
Corp., the largest U.S. home lender, in 2008 and Merrill Lynch &
Co., the largest brokerage, at the start of 2009.  
 Debt owners and guarantors in other parts of the mortgage
market may be finding it easier to reduce losses by forcing
repurchases and rescinding insurance than investors in private-
label, also called non-agency, mortgage securities, leading the
latter bondholders to begin to seek greater action.  
 A group with more than $500 billion, coordinating through a
Dallas lawyer, last month sent letters to bond trustees seeking
their help. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York also said Aug.
4 it is trying to exercise “our rights as investors” after
taking on debt through its bailouts of Bear Stearns Cos. and
American International Group Inc.  
 Conflicts of Interest  
 Bondholders are concerned that the conflicts of interest of
mortgage servicers, which must help identify claims on their
behalf and are often owned by lenders, “can cloud the prospect
that the interests of investors will be aggressively represented
as required,” the  Association of Mortgage Investors , a trade
group, said in a July 31 comment letter on proposed changes to
SEC regulations.  
 On Dec. 31, Bank of America’s unresolved repurchase
requests were $7.6 billion, including $3.3 billion from GSEs,
$2.9 billion from financial guarantors, $1.4 billion from other
investors and $30 million from private-label mortgage-bond
transactions, according to the filing.  
 The company’s liability, or reserves, for its potential
losses on sold or insured mortgages totaled $3.9 billion on June
30, up from $3.5 billion on Dec. 31, according to the filing.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net 
 David Mildenberg  in Charlotte at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        