-- Berlusconi Fails to Name Consob Chairman, Leaving Longest Void Since 1982
-- Tommaso Ebhardt
-- 2010-08-06T06:22:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/berlusconi-fails-to-name-consob-chairman-leaving-longest-void-since-1982.html

          
          
             Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s
government failed to appoint a Consob chairman before the summer
recess, leaving the Italian securities regulator without a chief
for what may be the longest period since 1982.  
 Lamberto Cardia , whose seven-year term expired at the end
of June, was temporarily replaced by Vittorio Conti, who leads
the Rome-based regulator as deputy chairman. The watchdog, which
oversees the country’s stock market and securities businesses,
also has another vacancy on its five-member commission. Another
departure and the regulator may cease to function because it
wouldn’t be able to take action with only two commissioners.  
 The Consob vacancy comes as the European Commission
prepares to propose tighter rules next month governing short
selling, credit-default swaps and the $605 trillion over-the-
counter derivatives market, which would see a greater number of
the products traded through central clearinghouses.  
 “Italy makes a poor showing with the rest of the world,”
said Marco Giorgino, a finance professor at MIP, a Milan-based
business school. “While in the U.S. and Europe we are moving to
a much more structured control of authorities, Italy is unable
to appoint a new chairman and the fifth member of the
commission.”  
 Turmoil  
 The delayed appointment at  Consob  reflects the turmoil
within Berlusconi’s coalition. His government fell short of an
absolute majority in a parliamentary vote on Aug. 4 after his
People of Liberty party split last week, a sign that his grip on
power is increasingly tenuous.  
 Antonio Catricala , head of the country’s antitrust
authority, has been tipped by newspapers including Il Sole 24
Ore as the leading candidate to succeed Cardia. To appoint
Catricala, Berlusconi may need the support of Chamber of
Deputies Speaker  Gianfranco Fini . Co-founder of Berlusconi’s
party, Fini broke with Berlusconi and took more than 30 deputies
with him into a new political group.  
 For MIP’s Giorgino, the Consob leadership vacancy shows
Italy isn’t making securities regulation a top priority. “It’s
a clear example of the lack of attention that Italy gives the
authority,” Giorgino said.  
 A government spokeswoman said that a new Consob head
probably won’t be reviewed in August.  
 ‘Important Decision’  
 Italian President  Giorgio Napolitano  in a July 23 speech in
Rome said the government “can’t stall taking an important
decision” such as the appointment of the Consob chairman. He
also called on the government to name an industry minister, a
post which has been vacant since May.  
 It’s unlikely Cardia’s successor will be running the
regulator before October. Berlusconi’s Cabinet won’t meet again
until at least later this month, and weeks typically pass before
an appointment is reviewed by both houses of parliament and then
ratified by the country’s president.  
 Before this transition, the longest period Consob has been
without a chairman was four months in 1982, after Guido Rossi
stepped down from the position.  
 Italy’s  stock market  is the seventh-largest in Europe based
on the value of traded companies, data compiled by industry
group World Federation of Exchanges show. Under Cardia, Consob
was given expanded powers to police market irregularities after
hundreds of thousands of Italians lost much of their savings in
the 2003 collapse of dairy company Parmalat Finanziaria SpA.  
 While Consob’s acting president and his two commissioners
can approve information documents, impose sanctions and bar
traders, they lack a fourth commissioner who’s needed to sign
off on decisions affecting the regulator, such as appointing a
general manager.  
 Consob, founded in 1975, is a member of the  Committee of
European Securities Regulators , which in recent months prepared
a review of the region’s Markets in Financial Instruments
Directive. Cardia, who now chairs stare-run railway company
Ferrovie dello Stato SpA, chaired CESR’s investment management
standing committee.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Elisa Martinuzzi  in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
 Tommaso Ebhardt  at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        