-- BNP Shrinks Bond Spread 30% in Month Amid Thirst for European Bank Bonds
-- Kate Haywood
-- 2010-08-06T08:47:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/bnp-shrinks-bond-spread-30-in-month-amid-thirst-for-european-bank-bonds.html

          
          
             Relative yields on bank bonds are
shrinking at the fastest pace in a year, with European investors
accepting a more than 30 percent cut for new  BNP Paribas SA 
notes as “blockbuster” earnings boost confidence.  
 France’s largest bank added 500 million euros ($660
million) to its 2.875 percent bonds Aug. 4 priced at 55 basis
points more than the swap rate, 32 basis points tighter than
when the notes were issued on July 6. The extra yield investors
demand to hold financial bonds in euros tumbled 38 basis points
in the past month to 217, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch data, the biggest monthly decline in a year.  
 Investors are accepting closest to the lowest spreads over
government notes since May to buy financial company bonds after
stress tests eased concern that lenders wouldn’t survive
sovereign debt losses and amid what Deutsche Bank AG strategist
 Jim Reid  called a “blockbuster earnings season.” The world’s
50 largest banks have about $700 billion of debt coming due in
the next six months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 “Banks are happy to take advantage of much improved
sentiment,” said  Juan Esteban Valencia , a London-based credit
strategist at Societe Generale SA. “The stress tests were
benign and earnings have been great. This is giving them a
chance to come to the markets.”  
 BNP Paribas ’s 1 billion euros of 2.85 percent of bonds due
2015 priced at 87 basis points over midswaps on July 6,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The notes now trade at
a spread of 55 basis points, according to Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc prices on Bloomberg.  
 Earnings Growth  
 Earnings from Europe’s biggest lenders are beating
forecasts with BNP Paribas’s second quarter net income rising to
2.11 billion euros, topping the 1.61 billion-euro estimate of
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Germany’s Commerzbank AG,
London-based Lloyds Banking Group Plc and Royal Bank of
Scotland, Britain’s biggest government-owned lender, all posted
profits that boosted investor confidence.  
 Company bond sales in Europe, totaling 5 billion euros
this week, were dominated by bank issuance. There was just one
benchmark non-financial sale, from Dutch broadband services
company UPC Holding BV which raised 640 million euros of high-
yield debt priced to yield 8.375 percent.  
 The transaction added to 39.5 billion euros of high-yield
issuance this year, up from 14.8 billion euros in the same
period in 2009. The yield investors demand to hold junk-rated
notes in euros fell to 8.5 percent, the lowest since May,
according to Merrill Lynch index data.  
 High-Yield Rating  
 UPC’s notes are ranked at B2 by Moody’s Investors Service,
five steps below investment-grade, and an equivalent B by
Standard & Poor’s. High-yield, or junk, debt is rated below Baa3
by Moody’s and BBB- by S&P.  
 Investor appetite for risk assets was boosted when the
European Central Bank and the Bank of England opted to keep
their key interest rates on hold yesterday. The ECB maintained
its rate at 1 percent for a 16th month, while the BOE kept its
bond-stimulus plan in place and left its benchmark interest rate
at a record low of 0.5 percent.  
 “As long as central bank money remains cheap, this is
supportive for risky assets, in particular credits,”  Tim Brunne , a Munich-based credit strategist at UniCredit SpA, wrote
in a note to investors. “Asset managers will be tempted to get
some pick-up by investing in higher-yielding assets. And that is
ultimately driving demand for corporate credits.”  
 Morgan Stanley  
 Morgan Stanley sold 1.5 billion euros of 10-year debt Aug.
3, offering investors a spread of 250 basis points over
midswaps. The New York-based bank’s notes trade 12 basis points
tighter on the secondary market, according to RBS prices.  
 Nordea Bank AB issued 1.25 billion euros of five-year bonds
yielding 73 basis points over the mid-swap rate. The issue
followed a 10-year deal of equal size sold on June 21, as well
as a $1 billion sale of two-year floating-rate notes on June 29,
Bloomberg data show. The 2015 bonds now trade 5 basis points
tighter at a spread of 68, according to RBS prices.  
 Investors have shown they are open to more sales of bank
debt, according to  Frederic Zorzi , co-head of syndicate at BNP
Paribas in London.  
 “Can there be more issuance? Yes, why not,” Zorzi said.
“The market is open even though it’s August and the market has
slowed for summer. The demand is definitely there.”  
 Issuance in dollars by European companies this week was the
highest in almost five months, with $13 billion of sales from
companies including steelmaker ArcelorMittal and lenders HSBC
Holdings Plc and UBS AG.  
 Volkswagen AG  sold $1.75 billion of notes yesterday, its
first benchmark transaction in the currency since 2002,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Europe’s largest
carmaker priced $1 billion of three-year notes to yield 93 basis
points more than U.S. Treasuries and $750 million of 10-year
debt at a spread of 120 basis points.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Caroline Hyde  in London 
 chyde3@bloomberg.net ;
Kate Haywood in London at 
 khaywood@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        