-- Sellers Join Mortgage Investors to Seek Tougher Rules
-- Jody Shenn
-- 2010-08-06T15:43:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/bond-sellers-mortgage-investors-seek-tougher-rules-on-asset-backed-debt.html

          
          
             Creators and underwriters of asset-
backed securities joined bond investors in telling the
Securities and Exchange Commission to go further than proposed
new rules on sellers’ obligations to take back bad mortgages
from future securitizations.  
 “Our membership felt the SEC proposal didn’t address the
real problem,” Chris Killian, vice president of the Securities
Industry and Financial Markets Association’s securitization
group, said yesterday. “There is a realization on both sides of
the disputes in existing RMBS transactions that the current
mechanisms, and therefore outcomes, have not been optimal.”  
 Bond-sponsor and dealer members of Wall Street’s largest
lobbying group propose that sellers of at least  residential
mortgage-backed securities , or RMBS, through shelf registrations
be required to appoint independent firms responsible for seeking
repurchases of loans whose quality was misrepresented. Sifma
expressed the views in a  letter  to the agency responding to a
series of possible new securitization rules.  
 The SEC wants to restore “investor confidence” that so-
called representations and warranties will be enforced in the
$1.5 trillion market for home-loan bonds without government
backing, according to its April proposal.  
 Seeking Action  
 Debt owners and guarantors in other parts of the mortgage
market may be finding it easier to reduce losses by forcing
repurchases and rescinding insurance, leading bondholders to
begin to seek greater action. A group with more than $500
billion, coordinating through a Dallas lawyer, sent letters to
bond trustees seeking their help. The  Federal Reserve Bank of
New York  also said Aug. 4 it is trying to exercise “our rights
as investors” after taking on debt through its bailouts.  
 Bondholders are concerned that the conflicts of interest of
mortgage servicers, which must help identify claims on their
behalf and are often owned by lenders, “can cloud the prospect
that the interests of investors will be aggressively represented
as required,” the  Association of Mortgage Investors , a trade
group, said in a July 31 comment letter.  
 The SEC’s 667-page  proposal  revamping its Regulation AB
preceded a broader financial overhaul signed into law last month
that requires a number of mostly separate changes to the market
in which loans and leases are packaged into bonds after mortgage
debt helped cause the worst financial crisis since the 1930s.  
 Under the agency’s proposal, when lenders or securities
issuers refuse to repurchase loans that bond trustees say may
violate their contractual representations, they would need to
have an independent firm review the decision and investors would
have to be informed.  
 ‘Credit Risk Manager’  
 Both AMI, an investor-only group formed this year that
represents bondholders with about $300 billion of asset-backed
debt, and Sifma, whose members also include money managers, say
the SEC should put aside that plan.  
 Instead the agency should require deals to include what
both groups called a “credit risk manager” that would be able
to launch investigations into loan quality either at its own
discretion or upon the suggestion of investors, they said. They
each recommended allowing investors with less than 25 percent of
deals to seek probes only if they offered to cover the costs,
which otherwise would be taken out of income from the underlying
debt.  
 Sifma’s proposal in its Aug. 2 letter contrasted with the
one offered by the investor group by saying disputes between the
credit risk manager and debt sellers on whether repurchases are
required should be settled in arbitration. The AMI didn’t
address disagreements.  
 Fighting With Lenders  
 Bond guarantors including  MBIA Inc. (MBI)  and  Ambac Financial
Group Inc. (ABKFQ)  are fighting lenders such as  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) 
and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  units in court over what they call
ineligible loans. Items such as faulty appraisals, inflated
borrower incomes and missing documentation can trigger contract
provisions that require repurchases or void loan-insurance
coverage.  
 The  Mortgage Bankers Association ’s members involved in
residential lending also objected to the SEC’s proposal, though
didn’t offer an alternative.  
 The Washington-based group “is concerned that the proposed
requirement could increase the rate of repurchase claims, and
possibly generate strategic or frivolous claims,” it said in a
comment  letter  dated Aug. 2. “The cost associated with these
additional risks would ultimately be passed on to the
consumer.”  
 ‘Disclosure-based’ Rules  
 The American Securitization Forum  suggested  that the SEC
could exempt deals that use a process similar to what Sifma
suggested from the SEC’s proposed rule on appointing an
independent firm to review and report on repurchase decisions.
The group said it understands that the SEC is reluctant to
create rules that aren’t “disclosure-based.”  
 The ASF, which was affiliated with Sifma until last year
and whose members include underwriters, issuers, investors,
lawyers and credit-rating firms, said that investors and issuers
disagree on what should trigger automatic reviews of loan files
by the third-party monitor.  
 Having such outside parties involved in deals isn’t a new
idea. Shelton, Connecticut-based Clayton Holdings Inc., the
largest provider of due diligence on loans that Wall Street
banks were packaging into bonds before the market froze, was
also contracted to look for opportunities to force repurchases
and do other “surveillance” on almost $500 billion of debt
used in mortgage securities.  
 In April, in the only non-agency securitization of new U.S.
mortgages in more than two years, sponsor Redwood Trust Inc.
received stronger rights than found in past deals to seek
repurchases of the loans, which were made by Citigroup Inc.,
according to Moody’s Investors Service. Redwood, which bought
the junior-ranked bonds, was a “vested party with an interest
in discovering breaches and pursuing them,” Moody’s analyst
Navneet Agarwal said then.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        