-- BP's Maximum $18 Billion Spill Fine Likely to Be Lowered
-- Laurel Brubaker Calkins
-- 2010-08-06T04:01:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/bp-s-maximum-18-billion-spill-fine-likely-to-be-lowered.html

          
          
             After months of technical setbacks,
 BP Plc  in early August was finally on the verge of capping its
runaway Macondo well, source of the largest oil spill in U.S.
history. But even as the oil giant’s focus shifts toward the
massive cleanup of the Gulf of Mexico, it now must contend with
expensive civil fines stemming from the disaster.  
 BP could face as much as $17.6 billion in civil penalties,
based on an expert panel’s finding Aug. 2 that 4.1 million
barrels of oil leaked from its well into the Gulf. Environmental
lawyers say BP probably will negotiate a lower penalty. Still,
the fines could crimp the company’s ability to pay for cleanup
costs, force it to sell more assets and cut into future
investment plans of incoming Chief Executive Officer  Robert Dudley , Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Aug. 9 issue.  
 The Clean Water Act makes BP, as owner of the oil, liable
for fines of $1,100 per barrel spilled even if it did nothing
wrong, says Wayne State University law professor  Noah Hall  in
Detroit. The penalty jumps to $4,300 per barrel if BP was
grossly negligent. Hall says gross negligence in a civil case
would include making “conscious decisions” that increased the
likelihood of an incident like the blowup while engaged in a
risky business, such as deepwater drilling.  
 BP Chairman  Carl-Henric Svanberg  told Bloomberg Television
on July 27 that the company doesn’t believe it will be found
grossly negligent or determined to be the sole responsible party
for the spill.  
 Nothing Like Maximum  
 Hall says the fine ultimately imposed probably won’t be
“anything like” the $17.6 billion maximum because BP and the
government have a mutual interest in a lower number. “Both the
federal government and any judge will take into account that BP
has spent or will spend billions to remediate and clean up the
spill,” he says. “At some point BP says: ‘If you hit us with the
maximum in penalties, plus $20 billion in cleanup and
$20 billion in claims, you’ll push us into bankruptcy.’ The
federal government doesn’t want to push BP into insolvency.”  
 The civil fines under U.S. environmental laws are separate
from costs BP is facing to clean up the spill and compensate
victims of the disaster.  Last month  BP took a $32.2 billion
charge for the cost of cleanup and compensation, and its
estimate of possible Clean Water Act penalties. The company has
already paid more than $4 billion in spill-related expenses.  
 BP has established a $20 billion escrow fund to pay
remaining claims by individuals and businesses harmed by the
spill. For those who don’t take an escrow payout, claims will be
handled in more than 300 proposed class actions and shareholder
suits tied to the spill. The company may also be liable for
civil penalties for violations of other environmental laws,
including the Endangered Species Act. That law imposes fines of
as much as $25,000 per animal killed by the oil, a number not
yet estimated.  
 Justice Probe  
 The U.S. Justice Dept. is investigating whether criminal or
civil laws were broken before the explosion, Attorney General
 Eric Holder  said in June. The government could pursue fines
under civil and criminal laws, as it did when it claimed BP
released more than 5,000 barrels in two spills from its Prudhoe
Bay field in Alaska in 2006.  Gregory Evans , a Los Angeles
attorney who represents defendants in environmental litigation,
says BP probably can mitigate the fines from the Deepwater
Horizon incident by cooperating with investigators probing the
causes of the blast and size of the spill.  
 Evans says that the Macondo spill estimate from the
government’s scientific panel is probably “a starting point”
for negotiations between BP and the government. “It does not
preclude BP or any of the other potentially responsible parties
from challenging it _ with reliable, independent studies,” he
says. Indeed, BP spokesman  Daren Beaudo  cautioned after the
panel’s finding that “there will always be uncertainty in any
estimate as the flow cannot be measured directly.”  
 Big Worry  
 The big worry for BP is avoiding a gross-negligence finding
by a court. Besides triggering the $4,300-per-barrel maximum
fine, such a ruling would also bar BP from seeking contributions
from its well partners,  Anadarko Petroleum Corp . and a unit of
Japan’s Mitsui Oil Exploration Co. Both have already shown
reluctance to pay portions of the mounting cleanup costs. “Gross
negligence protects the silent partners,” Hall says. Some
lawyers believe BP’s need to keep its partners on the hook to
share in any potential fines increases the government’s leverage
in negotiations with the company. “You don’t have to be that bad
to meet the standard of gross negligence” under civil law, Hall
says. It’s only necessary to show “that they engaged in risky
business and made some bad decisions.”  
 ‘Zero Chance’  
 Houston attorney David H. Berg, who often sues polluters on
behalf of municipalities, says “there’s zero chance” the U.S.
will impose the maximum civil fine on BP. Berg figures BP should
expect to pay fines of $3 billion to $5 billion because it has a
record of environmental compliance problems, including previous
settlements in the Alaska incident and another in Texas. Hall,
however, predicts the civil fines on BP would be lower, only
about $1 billion to $2 billion. “That would allow Obama and the
Interior Department to say they forced the largest fine ever,”
he says.  
 The main class action case is In Re Oil Spill by the Oil
Rig “Deepwater Horizon” in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20,
2010, MDL Docket No. 2179.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Oil Spill Clean Up  
                       
                         
                           Joe Raedle/Getty Images 
                         
                         Workers clean up oily globs that washed ashore from the Deepwater Horizon oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico in Waveland, Mississippi. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Workers clean up oily globs that washed ashore from the Deepwater Horizon oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico in Waveland, Mississippi. Photographer: Joe Raedle/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
