-- Brazil's Real Level Has Been `Reasonable' in Past Months, Mantega Says
-- Iuri Dantas
-- 2010-08-06T19:49:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/brazil-s-real-level-has-been-reasonable-in-past-months-mantega-says.html

          
          
             Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said that the level of the country’s real in the past
months has been “reasonable” and the government seeks to avoid
“excesses” in the market.  
 Speaking to reporters in Rio de Janeiro today, Mantega said
real appreciation was “inevitable” given Brazil’s economy
solidity and growth.  
 “If it floats around the range that it has in the past
months, it’s reasonable,” Mantega said. “There is a tendency
toward devaluation of the currencies in the so-called advanced
economies, the dollar weakened, the yen, and even the euro --and
this brings big commercial disadvantages.”  
 The minister, noting that the real has traded for more than
1.7 per dollar over the last four to five months, said the
government’s currency policy seeks to avoid swings in the
markets.  
 Brazil’s real is up 101 percent against the dollar since
President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  took office in 2003, the
biggest increase among major currencies tracked by Bloomberg. A
cheap dollar coupled with the fastest  growth  in 15 years may
widen the  current account deficit  to a record $49 billion this
year, the central bank estimates.  
 Lower Inflation  
 The real fell 0.4 percent to 1.7590 per dollar at 3:36 p.m.
New York time. Yields on interest-rate future contracts fell
after the statistics agency said inflation last month rose at
the second slowest pace since 2006. Yields on the most traded
contract, due January, fell 2 basis points, or 0.2 percentage
point, to 10.78 percent.  
 A 7 percent rally in the real since May 20 is spurring
speculation the central bank will buy dollars in the futures
market for the first time in 15 months. Central bank officials
called currency traders on July 23 to gauge their demand for so-
called reverse currency swaps, which allow policy makers to sell
the real for dollars in the futures market.  
 “Exporters would like to have a weaker currency,” Mantega
said. “We also would like the Chinese currency to be allowed to
appreciate more.”  
 Brazil’s trade  surplus  fell 45.1 percent to $9.24 billion
in the first seven months this year compared with the same
period a year ago as  imports  rose faster than  exports .  
 Brazil’s 12-month current account gap widened to the
highest on record in June on steeper profit remittances by
multinationals and increased spending by Brazilians abroad.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andre Soliani  in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net 
Iuri Dantas in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        