-- Brazil Bonds Lose `Juice' as Record Low Yields Send Investors Into Stocks
-- Tal Barak Harif
-- 2010-08-06T21:34:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/brazil-bonds-lose-juice-as-record-low-yields-send-investors-into-stocks.html

          
          
             Brazilian  bonds  face the lowest
demand since January relative to  stocks  as dollar debt yields
lag behind returns on corporate profits for the first time in
more than a year.  
 “There’s not a lot of juice there, so investors are
looking for opportunities in other markets,” said  David Spegel ,
the New York-based head of emerging-market debt strategy at ING
Groep NV. “Investors are going into stocks because they’re more
attracted by the companies’ growth prospects and earnings.”  
 Global funds invested a net $429 million in Brazilian local
and international bonds in July, 39 percent of the $1.11 billion
poured into stocks, according to research firm  EPFR Global .
Brazilian  equity earnings  yields rose to 6.7 percent today, 142
basis points, or 1.42 percentage points, above the average yield
for the country’s  dollar bonds , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg and JPMorgan Chase & Co. Stocks began offering a
higher payout in mid-April, reversing a 13-month-long trend.  
 International bonds  are losing favor after a three-month
rally drove yields to a record low and a quickening economic
expansion bolstered the outlook for corporate profits. Brazil’s
dollar bonds gained 3.4 percent in July, compared with an 11
percent advance in the  Bovespa  stock index, the gauge’s biggest
monthly increase since May 2009.  Local bonds  returned 4.4
percent in dollar terms, JPMorgan’s GBI-EM Global Diversified
index shows.  
 Rate Outlook  
 Stocks  are surging as the central bank reduces the pace of
interest-rate increases, boosting the outlook for retailers and
banks that depend on credit demand. Policy makers led by bank
President  Henrique Meirelles  raised the benchmark  overnight rate 
by 50 basis points to 10.75 percent at their July 21 meeting,
surprising 48 of 51 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg who expected
a third straight increase of 75 basis points.  
 Latin America’s largest economy  will grow  7.2 percent this
year, according to a central bank survey of 100 economists
published July 26.  
 Investors are also paring holdings of Brazilian bonds on
optimism the global economic recovery is strengthening and
European countries are moving to reduce budget deficits. Average
yields on  Brazilian dollar  securities tumbled 67 basis points
this year to an all-time low of 5.27 percent as of Aug. 4 as
rates on U.S. Treasury debt, the benchmark for emerging-market
borrowing costs, plunged, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI+ index.
Yields were at 5.28 percent yesterday.  
 “The perceived risk is falling fairly dramatically and
investors are trying to get more risk and higher yields,” said
 John Ditieri , who helps oversee about $13.5 billion in emerging-
market equities at Arlington, Virginia-based Emerging Markets
Management. “That’s hard to find in the fixed-income space.”  
 Yield Spread  
 The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Brazilian dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed three basis points to
202 at 5:30 p.m. in New York, according to JPMorgan.  
 The cost of protecting against a default on Brazilian debt
for five years through credit-default swaps fell one basis point
to 114, according to data compiled by CMA DataVision. Credit-
default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  
 The real fell 0.5 percent to 1.7609 per dollar.  
 Yields on the interest-rate futures contract due in January
fell two basis points to 10.78 percent.  
 ‘Volatile’  
 The 2.1 percentage-point advantage of Brazilian earnings
over dollar bonds in May marked the biggest gap since December
2008. The earnings yield is the income relative to the company’s
share price. Stocks of the MSCI Emerging Markets Index offer a
profit return of 6.6 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  
 While  Brazilian stocks  outperformed bonds in July, debt is
beating equities for the year. The dollar bonds have gained 9.9
percent while the local debt returned 7.9 percent. The Bovespa
has lost 0.7 percent. Global funds invested $3.8 billion in
Brazilian bonds this year, almost five times the $774 million
that has gone into equities, according to Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based EPFR.  
 “The yields of the Brazilian debt market are still
attractive for some investors,” said  Marc Chandler , global head
of currency strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in New
York. “It’s a combination of high interest rates and a steady
currency.”  
 ‘Strong and Sustainable’  
 Brazilian companies’ second-quarter revenue surprised
analysts, with sales exceeding estimates by 22 percent,
according to data compiled by  Bloomberg. Osasco-based Banco
Bradesco SA , Brazil’s second-biggest bank by market value, said
second-quarter profit increased 23 percent to 2.46 billion reais
($1.4 billion), beating the mean estimate of 2.26 billion reais
in a Bloomberg survey of four analysts.  
 “The trend of money flowing into equity should continue,”
said  Fabio Mele Dall’Acqua , who oversees $500 million as
managing partner at Constellation Asset Management in Sao Paulo.
“It took a couple of quarters of earnings to understand that
the case of Brazil is strong and sustainable.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tal Barak Harif  in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        