-- Brookfield Asset Names Canada's Former U.S. Ambassador McKenna as Chairman
-- John Gittelsohn
-- 2010-08-06T15:57:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/brookfield-asset-names-canada-s-former-u-s-ambassador-mckenna-as-chairman.html

          
          
             Brookfield Asset Management Inc ., the
real estate investor that’s acquiring a stake in bankrupt mall
owner General Growth Properties Inc., named former Canadian
Ambassador  Frank McKenna  chairman.  
 McKenna, formerly Brookfield’s lead independent director,
replaces  Robert Harding  as chairman, the Toronto-based company
said today in a statement. Harding will remain on Brookfield’s
board and head up a new global infrastructure advisory board.  
 “McKenna is a strong asset to Brookfield’s board,”  Alex Avery , an analyst with CIBC World Markets Inc. in Toronto, said
in an e-mail today. “His success in business and politics
provides BAM with great insights and relationships in both
worlds.”  
 The 62-year-old McKenna was premier of New Brunswick from
1987 to 1997 and ambassador to the U.S. from 2005 to 2006. He
has been on Brookfield’s board since 2006. McKenna also is
deputy chairman of TD Bank Financial Group and a director at
 Canadian Natural Resources Ltd.   
 Brookfield is stepping up investments in U.S. commercial
real estate after values, as measured by the Moody’s/REAL
Commercial Price  Index , dropped more than 40 percent from an
October 2007 peak. Brookfield bought a 65 percent stake in
Fairfield Residential LLC, a San Diego-based apartment owner
that came out of bankruptcy this month.  
 The company will own about 30 percent of  General Growth 
when the Chicago-based mall owner exits bankruptcy, planned for
October. Brookfield leads a group that includes Fairholme
Capital Management LLC and Pershing Square Capital Management
LLC. They pledged about $7 billion of equity for General Growth
to come out of Chapter 11 protection.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Gittelsohn  in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        