-- BT Group's British Telecom Sues Cable Firms Over Data Transmission Patents
-- Michael Bathon
-- 2010-08-06T19:41:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/bt-group-s-british-telecom-sues-cable-firms-over-data-transmission-patents.html

          
          
             British Telecommunications Plc, a
global telecommunications unit of  BT Group Plc , sued cable
companies  Cox Communications Inc. , Coxcom Inc. and Cable One
Inc. over patents for transmitting data over cable networks.  
 British Telecom seeks unspecified damages related to four
patents it holds for “managing and organizing the flow of data
over cable networks,” it said yesterday in a federal court
complaint in Wilmington, Delaware. The company claims Cox and
Cable One infringed its technologies deliberately and “in
reckless disregard of BT’s rights.”  
 “The extent of damage suffered by BT” is unknown, “but
the damage is substantial and will be determined in the course
of litigation,” lawyers for the London-based company said in
court papers. British Telecom said it has  operations  in more
than 170 countries.  
 BT Group, the U.K.’s largest fixed-line phone company,
reported in a July 29 statement that earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation, amortization and costs from job cuts rose
to 1.4 billion pounds ($2.2 billion) in the three months ended
June 30, from 1.33 billion pounds a year earlier.  
 Rima Calderon , a spokeswoman for the  Washington Post Co. ,
Cable One’s parent, said “the company does not comment on
pending litigation.”  David Grabert , a spokesman for Cox
Communications, the third-largest U.S. cable TV company, said,
“We have not been served and we have no comment about the
complaint at this time”.  
 The case is In re British Telecommunications Plc v. Coxcom
Inc., 10-cv-00658,U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Bathon  in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   mbathon@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        