-- Cameron, Zardari Pledge `Unbreakable' U.K.-Pakistan Ties, Easing Tensions
-- Kitty Donaldson
-- 2010-08-06T13:36:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/cameron-zardari-pledge-unbreakable-u-k-pakistan-ties-easing-tensions.html

          
          
             U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  and
Pakistan President  Asif Ali Zardari  declared the countries had
“unbreakable” ties as they sought to ease diplomatic strains.  
 After talks outside London today, Cameron said he
recognized the “sacrifices” made by Pakistan in the fight
against terrorism and the two leaders pledged to deepen security
cooperation.  
 “It’s a friendship that will never break no matter what
happens,” Zardari told broadcasters outside Chequers, the
countryside retreat of British prime ministers. “Storms will
come and storms will go and Pakistan and Britain will stand
together.” Cameron, standing alongside him, said the two
nations had an “unbreakable relationship” based on “mutual
interests.”  
 Cameron provoked fury in Pakistan after he said during a
visit to India last week that Pakistan must not be allowed to
“look both ways” in the fight against terrorism or to
“promote the export of terror whether to India, whether to
Afghanistan or to anywhere else in the world.”  
 The dispute raised concerns Pakistan might curtail
intelligence sharing, seen as vital in preventing acts of
terrorism in the U.K. The previous Labour government said that
three quarters of terrorism plots investigated by British
authorities had links to Pakistan.  
 ‘Sacrifices’  
 The row came after military documents published on the
 Wikileaks website  suggested Pakistan’s main intelligence agency,
the Directorate for Inter-Services Intelligence, secretly aided
the Taliban and other militant groups that NATO forces are
trying to defeat in Afghanistan.  
 Zardari, whose late wife, Benazhir Bhutto, was assassinated
by militants in 2007, has argued that Pakistanis are the victims
of terrorism in Pakistan and the government is committed to
fighting extremism. Cameron has said he had no regrets about his
comments.  
 The prime minister “recognised the sacrifices made by
Pakistan’s military, civil law enforcement agencies and people
in fighting violent extremism and militancy and appreciated the
efforts of the democratic government,” according to a joint
statement issued following the talks.  
 Home Secretary  Theresa May  will travel to Pakistan later
this year and Cameron has accepted an invitation to make an
“early visit,” the statement said. The two countries will hold
an annual summit to enhance trade, diplomatic and cultural ties.  
 ‘Real Priority’  
 There will also be regular meetings between the nations’
intelligence agencies and militaries, a spokesman for Cameron
said after the meeting.  
 “Whether it is keeping troops safe in Afghanistan or
keeping people safe on the street of Britain, that is a real
priority for my government and somewhere where with Pakistan we
are going to work together on this enhanced strategic
partnership,” Cameron said  
 Zardari came under pressure at home to cancel his trip to
Britain and remain in Pakistan amid the deadliest floods in 80
years. The floods, which first struck July 22, have killed 1,500
people in the northwest of the country and left 4 million people
stranded. At least 1.8 million people urgently need food
supplies, according to the United Nations World Food Programme.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        