-- Campari Wins Market Share in Europe as Rivals Look Elsewhere
-- Clementine Fletcher
-- 2010-08-06T11:45:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/campari-ceo-says-winning-market-share-in-europe-as-rivals-look-elsewhere.html

          
          
             Davide Campari-Milano SpA , the maker
of Wild Turkey bourbon and Skyy vodka, is winning business from
competitors in Europe as rivals focus on developing markets to
drive growth, the chief executive officer said.  
 “We’re gaining market share because we believe in
Europe,” CEO  Bob Kunze-Concewitz  said yesterday in an interview
in London. “There’s still a lot of growth to be had in
developed markets -- not only Europe, but the U.S.”  
 Consumer spending in Europe, which generates about 60
percent of Campari’s  revenue , has withered as governments
pledged spending cuts to prevent a continent-wide debt crisis.
That’s causing Campari’s competitors to look to developing
markets including South America and Asia to drive sales.  
 Campari reported Aug. 4 that first-half organic sales
jumped 11 percent in Europe excluding Italy, where they advanced
2.9 percent. Global sales rose 8.7 percent. Pernod Ricard SA,
the maker of Absolut vodka, reported fourth-quarter sales growth
that missed analysts’ estimates as performance in the U.K.,
Spain and Greece hurt western Europe.  
 Milan-based Campari’s  share  price has risen 12 percent this
year, making it the third-best performer this year in the 9-
member  Bloomberg European Beverages Index . Diageo is unchanged,
while Pernod Ricard increased 0.9 percent.  
 Acquisitions  
 Campari , which bought Wild Turkey bourbon from Pernod
Ricard last year, said Aug. 4 that its bondholders agreed to
allow the company to temporarily increase its debt ratio “in
case of significant acquisitions.” Campari can now increase its
indebtedness to a ratio of 4.25 times net debt to earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. The
previous limit was a ratio of 3.5 times.  
 Campari has another 300 million euros ($395.6 million) of
 cash  available for acquisitions, the 43-year-old executive said,
but the company has “no obsession about spending a certain
sum.” Any purchase the company will make would be in spirits
and be guided by geographical advantages, he said.  
 “What’s the point in buying a gin brand that’s spread over
20 markets we’re not in? I’d rather buy into something which
maybe we already have, but which is in a market which actually
increases our critical mass,” he said. Kunze-Concewitz said
Aug. 4 that there was “nothing to report” on any planned
purchases.  
 Emerging Markets  
 Growth in Eastern Europe is returning, boosted by Russia,
Kunze-Concewitz said, and western European markets are “mostly
stable,” with strong growth in Germany and Austria. Greece is
the only country where sales dropped.  
 The company is also expanding in developing markets, though
Kunze-Concewitz said Campari is “doing it at our own pace and
in a profitable manner.” Brazil and Argentina are the company’s
focus in South America. Campari can “significantly” grow Skyy
in Mexico, he added. Asia, which accounts for less than seven
percent of the company’s revenue, is growing, albeit from a
“low base.”  
 The company is aiming to expand Skyy, the company’s second-
biggest brand after its Italian-style aperitif Campari,
globally. Campari, which represents about 13 percent of sales
compared with Skyy’s 12 percent, has more of a western European
focus, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Clementine Fletcher  in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     “We’re gaining market share because we believe in Europe,” said Davide Campari-Milano CEO Bob Kunze-Concewitz,seen here. Photographer: Giuseppe Aresu/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
