-- Cesc Fabregas Says He'll Remain at Arsenal, Won't Make Move to Barcelona
-- Bob Bensch
-- 2010-08-06T13:49:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/cesc-fabregas-says-he-ll-remain-at-arsenal-turns-down-move-to-barcelona.html

          
          
             Arsenal captain  Cesc Fabregas  said
he’s staying at the Premier League soccer club and won’t join
Barcelona.  
 Fabregas, 23, had been linked with a return to the Spanish
club from where he joined Arsenal as a 16-year-old. In a
 statement , the midfielder said the Gunners had rejected two
formal offers from Spain’s champion.  
 “I am a professional and I fully understand that it is
Arsenal’s prerogative not to sell me,” Fabregas said. “I owe a
lot to the club, manager and the fans and I will respect their
decision and will now concentrate on the new season with
Arsenal.”  
 Fabregas returned to training yesterday after helping Spain
win the World Cup. He said he’d spoken with Arsenal manager
 Arsene Wenger  about his future over the past few month, but
never made a public declaration where he wanted to play.  
 “Firstly I would like to apologise to all the Arsenal fans
for not speaking sooner about my future, but I have not known
what I was going to do until this moment,” Fabregas said. “I
cannot deny that joining a club like Barcelona was not an
attractive move for me. This was the club where I learned my
football, it is my home town where my friends and family are and
a club where I have always dreamed of playing.”  
 Barcelona players have made media comments saying Fabregas
wanted to return to the club, while several teammates placed a
Barcelona shirt over him during Spain’s World Cup celebration.  
 Fabregas, who scored a team-high 19 goals last season, said
he is now focused on helping Arsenal win its first trophy since
the 2005 F.A. Cup.  
 “I can assure all the fans that now the negotiations have
ended I will be 100 percent focused on playing for Arsenal,” he
sadi. “I am an Arsenal player and as soon as I step out onto
the pitch, that is the only club I will be thinking about.”  
 Arsenal begins its season on Aug. 15 at Liverpool.  
          
          


  


        