-- Chelsea Eyes Coentrao to Replace Ashley Cole, Mirror Says: Soccer Roundup
-- Tariq Panja
-- 2010-08-06T09:19:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/chelsea-eyes-coentrao-to-replace-ashley-cole-mirror-says-soccer-roundup.html

          
          
             The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  
 Cole Eyes Spain  
 Chelsea coach  Carlo Ancelotti  will allow defender  Ashley Cole  to move to Real Madrid as the club closes on the 16-
million-pound ($25 million) signing of Portugal World Cup star
Fabio Coentrao,  the Daily Mirror reported .  
 Cole has asked Ancelotti to be allowed to leave the Blues
and reunite with former Chelsea manager  Jose Mourinho  at Real
Madrid, the newspaper said, adding Chelsea’s also interested in
Coentrao’s Benfica teammate David Luiz.  
 Real has offered Chelsea striker  Karim Benzema  as part of a
deal to sign Cole,  the Daily Mail reported.   
 Fabregas Commitment  
 Arsenal captain  Cesc Fabregas  is expected to confirm he’s
committed to staying with the north London team by issuing a
statement within the next day,  the Daily Telegraph reported .  
 Former club Barcelona has tried to tempt Fabregas with a
return and the midfielder has acknowledged he’d like to play
with the Catalan team again in the future.  
 Arsenal coach  Arsene Wenger  met with Fabregas at the club’s
training ground yesterday where the 23-year-old resolved he’d
stay with the Gunners this season, the Telegraph said.  
 Robinho No  
 Robinho , the U.K.’s most expensive player, has told his
club Manchester City he wants to stay in Brazil with Santos,  the
Sun reported .  
 The 32.5 million-pound player ended a six-month stay with
Santos two days ago and called on City to extend his stay with
the Rio-based club.  
 “My heart is here and I want to stay, but I have to talk
to City,” the Sun quoted Robinho saying. “I don’t want this to
be my last experience with Santos.”  
 Adebayor for Juve?  
 Manchester City striker  Emmanuel Adebayor  wants to move to
Italy’s Juventus after becoming unsettled by his team’s attempts
to sign Inter Milan forward Mario Balotelli,  the Mirror reported .  
 “I have now realized there will not be many chances for me
to play and so I am considering the many offers I have
received,” the Mirror quoted the 26-year-old saying. “I am
sorry to leave the Premier League, but in Europe there are other
high-level leagues.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        