-- Chicago's Bond Rating Lowered by Moody's to Aa3, Second Cut This Week
-- Martin Z. Braun
-- 2010-08-06T17:59:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/chicago-s-bond-rating-lowered-by-moody-s-to-aa3-second-cut-this-week.html

          
          
             Chicago, the third-most populous U.S.
city, had its credit ranking cut for the second time in as many
days as Moody’s Investors Service lowered its general-obligation
bond ranking because of depleted reserves.  
 Moody’s dropped the city to Aa3, its fourth-highest
investment grade, from Aa2, according to spokesman  John Cline .
Fitch Rating cut its ranking of Chicago’s $6.8 billion general-
obligation debt one level to AA, its third-highest, yesterday
because of weakened finances from falling tax revenue.  
 Moody’s cited a “rapid depletion of reserves” by the
city, which Fitch said yesterday faces its largest-ever budget
gap, at $654.7 million for fiscal 2011. Moody’s said 21.5
percent of the city’s $3.2 billion general-fund budget in 2010
largely came from reserves built up with proceeds from leasing
parking meters and the Chicago Skyway, an elevated highway that
connects the city to Indiana.  
 In 2009, 16% of the city’s general fund came from those
sources, said  Ted Damutz , a Moody’s analyst. The city has about
$935 million left in its reserves from the leases, down from
$2.95 billion, he said.  
 Damutz also cited the city’s “unsound practice of not
meeting their annual required contribution” to municipal
pensions. At the end of 2009, the plan for police personnel was
44 percent-funded, while the pension for firefighters had 37
percent of what was projected to be needed and the plan for
municipal employees was 58 percent-funded, he said.  
 No Significant Effect  
 Chicago Chief Financial Officer  Gene Saffold  said yesterday
in a statement that Fitch’s lowered credit score wouldn’t have a
significant impact on the city’s long-term borrowing costs. He
said the rating cut was anticipated.  
 Lower ratings can raise the cost of borrowing as investors
demand higher yields in exchange for what they see as more risk.
Chicago plans to issue about $233 million of debt in a
negotiated sale Aug. 18, according to Fitch.  
 “During the deepest economic recession in 70 years, many
cities, states, and private corporations have felt the negative
impact of this economy on their credit ratings,” Saffold said
by e-mail.  
 Foreclosure filings in the region for first half of 2010
climbed 23 percent from a year earlier to 78,022, including the
Naperville and Joliet areas, according to  RealtyTrac Inc. 
Unemployment in Chicago was 11.2 percent in May, compared with
10 percent for all of Illinois, Fitch said.  
 While Chicago Mayor  Richard Daley  has fired city workers
and imposed furloughs on current employees, the city’s ability
to make deeper cuts to personnel are limited because of its
highly unionized workforce. Personnel costs account for about 80
percent of the city’s budget.  
 Daley refused drastic tax increases and spending cuts
“when people are suffering,” Saffold said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Martin Z. Braun  in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        