-- Chile's Monthly Inflation Rate Rises to 10-Month High as Economy Expands
-- Randy Woods
-- 2010-08-06T15:44:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/chilean-consumer-prices-rose-0-6-last-month-annual-rate-climbs-to-2-3-.html

          
          
             Chile’s  monthly  inflation rate rose
to a 10-month high in July as financial, transport and food
costs climbed.  
 Consumer prices rose 0.6 percent in July from June, the
National Statistics Institute said on its website, compared with
the 0.7 percent median forecast of 17 economists  surveyed  by
Bloomberg.  Annual inflation  quickened to 2.3 percent, matching
estimates, while  underlying  monthly inflation, which excludes
food and fuel, was 0.6 percent, the Institute said.  
 Monthly inflation was driven by a temporary increase in the
tax on loans, as well as higher prices for public transport and
groceries. Chilean interest-rate swap rates declined today as
traders  reduced bets  on central bank  rate increases . The median
forecast of 10 economists surveyed by Bloomberg is that the bank
will increase borrowing costs by half a percentage point to 2
percent on Aug. 12.  
 “While activity data may push the bank toward 75 basis
points, if anything today’s inflation data will push it toward
50 basis points,” said  Alberto Ramos , an economist at Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. in New York. “Core inflation was 0.6 percent,
but almost all of that was due to stamp duty. If you take that
out, the number is pretty good.”  
 The cost of financial services rose 20 percent in July from
June, completing a 77 percent increase this year. From a month
earlier, frosts pushed up food prices 1 percent in July, as the
price of peppers rose 33 percent, tomatoes increased 18 percent
and avocados rose 11 percent, according to National Statistics
Institute data.  
 Interest-Rate Swaps  
 One-year and three-year interest-rate swap rates in pesos
fell for the first time this week, dropping three basis points
to 3.7 percent and 4.56 percent, respectively, at 10:45 a.m. New
York time.  
 Chile’s peso was little changed against the U.S. dollar at
515.25 per dollar from 515.30 yesterday. The peso has
appreciated 6.0 percent this quarter, the most among Latin
American currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  
 “With a central bank that seems committed to removing
monetary accommodation, expanding demand at a fast pace and
inflows related to earthquake reconstruction, it’s an attractive
currency to own,” Ramos said. Goldman yesterday recommended
selling the Mexican peso to buy the Chilean.  
 Recovery  
 South America’s fifth-largest economy grew 7.1 percent in
May and 6.8 percent in June from the previous year as Chileans
increased spending to replace goods damaged in February’s
earthquake and celebrate their first appearance in a soccer
World Cup in more than a decade.  
 Annual growth probably will be at the higher end of a 4.5
percent to 5 percent range after 2009’s slump, Finance Minister
 Felipe Larrain  said yesterday.  
 The central bank aims for inflation to be 3 percent in two
year’s time. The inflation forwards market is pricing in annual
inflation of more than 3 percent as soon as this month and more
than 4 percent for five months from March through July next
year, according to Banco Santander SA prices.  
 Policy makers on July 15 increased borrowing costs by half
a point to 1.5 percent, saying in a statement accompanying the
decision that they probably would continue to raise rates this
year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sebastian Boyd  in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net ; or
 Randy Woods  in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        