-- Chinese Turbine Suppliers for Texas Wind Farm Agree to Buy American Steel
-- Kim Chipman
-- 2010-08-06T17:42:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/chinese-turbine-suppliers-for-texas-wind-farm-agree-to-buy-american-steel.html

          
          
             Chinese makers of turbines for a
Texas wind farm agreed to buy steel from U.S. producers after
lawmakers objected to foreign production of the equipment.  
 A-Power Energy Generation Systems Ltd. , based in Shenyang,
China, and Shenyang Power Group anticipate buying about 50,000
tons of steel to be produced in American steel mills, the United
Steelworkers union announced today. The companies will buy parts
from American suppliers and invest in a plant in Nevada, the
union said.  
 “This is a new model,”  Leo Gerard , the union’s president,
told reporters today. “They will work with us to develop and
grow the domestic wind-energy supply chain. But I don’t have any
illusions that this will be easy.”  
 Democratic Senators  Charles Schumer  of New York and  Sherrod Brown  of Ohio had criticized the Texas wind farm, saying the
federal aid it was seeking would be subsidizing jobs in China
because much of the turbine manufacturing would take place
there. Lawmakers had pushed for “Buy American” rules to limit
government funding for foreign suppliers.  
 “We can’t replace our dependence on foreign oil with a
dependence on Chinese-made wind turbines,” Brown said in a
statement. “This agreement is an important step forward.”  
 The Texas project’s partners, U.S. Renewable Energy Group,
a Washington-based private-equity firm, and closely held Cielo
Wind Power LP of Austin, announced plans for the 600-megawatt
wind farm in October. They are in the joint venture with
Shenyang Power Group, a Chinese energy alliance in which A-Power
is the biggest investor.  
 American Jobs  
 This deal “will result in hundreds of American jobs and
help create a clean energy future for the U.S.,”  Cappy McGarr ,
managing partner of U.S. Renewable Energy Group, said in the
steelworkers’ statement.  
 Asia makes more than half the world’s wind and solar energy
equipment and is widening its lead. China invested $34.5 billion
in low-carbon energy technologies last year, according to
Bloomberg New Energy Finance. The U.S. spent $18.6 billion.  
 A wind turbine contains about 8,000 parts, and many of
those may not be made in the U.S., so the Chinese companies
agreed to turn to American companies where practical, Gerard
said. As a result of the agreement, the project should qualify
for stimulus funding and the products, if made domestically,
wouldn’t face antidumping complaints, he said.  
 A U.S. Energy Department report released Aug. 4 found that
a growing share of wind turbine equipment is being supplied
domestically, as companies from the U.S. and abroad seek to
minimize transportation costs and currency risks. U.S. content
increased to about 60 percent in 2009 from about 50 percent the
previous year, the department found.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mark Drajem  in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net ;
 Kim Chipman  in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        