-- China 9-Month Bill Auction Draws More Bank Bids As Government Curbs Loans
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-08-06T04:33:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/china-9-month-bill-auction-draws-more-bank-bids-as-government-curbs-loans.html

          
          
             China’s auction of nine-month
treasury bills today had the highest bid-to-cover ratio of the
year, reflecting strong demand from banks seeking returns after
the government restricted lending to help contain inflation.  
 The 10 billion yuan ($1.5 billion) issue attracted orders
for 2.33  times  the amount on offer, while the last sale of
similar-maturity notes on June 11 failed to meet a 20 billion
yuan target. The average yield was 1.8843 percent, down from
2.0511 percent last time. The seven-day repurchase  rate , which
reflects interbank funding availability, slid 1.03 percentage
points between the two auction dates to 1.7 percent.  
 “Banks had more cash for purchasing bonds as the annual
target of new loans set by the regulator is still effective,
limiting their lending,” said  Chen Jianheng , a bond analyst at
China International Capital Corp., the nation’s first Sino-
foreign investment bank in Beijing. “The central bank also
moderated their sterilization in open-market operations, helping
leave more funds in the money market.”  
 The government aims to limit new loans to 7.5 trillion yuan
this year after banks in 2009 made a  record  9.59 trillion yuan
available to borrowers. New loans amounted to 4.62 trillion yuan
in the first half and the Shanghai Securities News reported this
week that July’s total was about 700 billion yuan.  
 The People’s Bank of China said yesterday inflation risks
persist, though these are limited by slowing credit growth,
stabilizing commodity prices and “abundant” domestic
manufacturing capacity. A government report next week is
expected to show consumer prices rose 3.3 percent from a year
earlier in July, the most since October 2008, according to the
median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 The central bank took out a net 2 billion yuan from the
money market in  open-market operations  this week, compared with
net withdrawals of 84 billion yuan last week and 81 billion yuan
in the period ended July 23.  
 -- Belinda Cao . Editors:  James Regan ,  Simon Harvey   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in Beijing at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        