-- China May Soon Lift Curbs on Imports of Argentine Soy Oil, Ambassador Says
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-08-06T07:49:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/china-may-soon-lift-restrictions-on-argentine-soybean-oil-ambassador-says.html

          
          
             China, the world’s biggest buyer of
cooking oils, will soon lift restrictions on imports of soybean
oil from Argentina as the nations seek a closer relationship,
Ambassador to China  Cesar Mayoral  said.  
 The country needs to widen its sources of cooking oil to
help control inflation, Mayoral said in an interview in Beijing
Aug. 4. Chinese officials have replied “soon” when Argentina
asked for a timeline, he said. A faxed request for comment to
the quality control and quarantine bureau received no response.  
 The Asia nation halted shipments from Argentina, the
largest supplier, in April because of trade disputes ranging
from textiles to kitchen products. Talks continue, President
 Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  said July 15 in Shanghai, and the
Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Beijing said July 13 that the
matter can be resolved.  
 China won’t let “such small” issues strain ties and
shipments may resume as early as September, Mayoral said, adding
that was his own estimate.  
 Zhou Yongkang , one of the nine highest-ranking politburo
officials of the Communist Party, will visit Argentina this fall,
and his trip and similar ones will help exports of soybean oil
and beef to resume, Mayoral said.  
 The Ministry of Foreign Affairs doesn’t have enough
information to comment on Zhou’s trip, said a spokesman at the
media office yesterday. Last year, China bought $1.4 billion
worth of soybean oil from  Argentina , according to Bloomberg
calculations based on customs data.  
 China allowed imports of U.S. soybean oil in June for the
first time because of the embargo. Total purchases as of July 29
amounted to 154,100 tons, according to the U.S. Department of
Agriculture. Imports from Argentina plunged 93.5 percent to
33,895 tons in April-June from 519,879 tons a year ago,
according to Bloomberg calculations.  
 -- William Bi . Editor:  James Poole   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        