-- China Bank Regulator Says Stress Tests Don't Represent Outlook on Property
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-08-06T05:31:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/china-bank-regulator-says-stress-tests-don-t-represent-outlook-on-property.html

          
          
             China’s  banking regulator  said
scenarios lenders are required to use in stress tests don’t
represent its outlook on the nation’s property market, seeking
to ease concerns that it expects steeper declines in home prices.  
 The suggested risk factors aren’t meant to signal likely
changes in real-estate lending policies, according to a
 statement  on the China Banking Regulatory Commission’s website
yesterday. Lenders will be instructed to “resolutely” curb
speculation and “strictly” manage mortgage loans, it said.  
 Property stocks slumped in Shanghai yesterday after a
person familiar with the matter said the regulator told banks to
conduct stress tests that assume housing prices may drop as much
as 60 percent in worst-case scenarios in some cities. The CBRC
in May had ordered tests assuming declines of as much as 30
percent to gauge the impact on real-estate loans.  
 “It’s a sign of a prudent stance by the regulators,”
 Jianguang Shen , a Hong Kong-based economist at Mizuho Securities
Asia Ltd., told Bloomberg TV in Beijing today, referring to the
new tests. “I don’t think this is a sign that the government is
going to tighten further the housing-market policy.”  
 The government escalated a crackdown on speculative
investments in property in mid-April by raising minimum down-
payments and mortgage rates on loans for second homes after
prices rose to  record highs . Lenders can suspend loans to third-
home buyers in regions with rapid price gains or raise the
required down-payment and borrowing costs “by a large margin,”
the CBRC reiterated in yesterday’s statement.  
 ‘Ultra-Low Probability’  
 China Vanke Co. , the nation’s biggest listed developer,
fell 1.5 percent to 7.87 yuan in Shenzhen by the 11:30 a.m.
break, extending this year’s loss to 27 percent. The benchmark
 Shanghai Composite Index  gained 0.1 percent.  
 “I caution against over-reaction,” said  Qing Wang , Hong
Kong-based economist at Morgan Stanley. A “50-60% decline in
property prices is an ultra-low probability event; and banks
have already completed or are about to complete this round of
capital raising according to pre-announced plans.”  
 The nation’s five largest banks, including Agricultural
Bank of China Ltd., are raising as much as a combined $53.5
billion to replenish capital, which would bolster their ability
to absorb bad loans after a record $1.4 trillion of new  credit 
was extended by Chinese lenders extended.  
 Relaxation Unlikely  
 The  SE Shang Property Index , tracking 34 developers listed
in Shanghai, gained as much 18 percent from this year’s low on
July 1, as slowing  economic growth  and a drop in home prices
boosted speculation the government will relax curbs on multiple-
home purchases and financing for developers and mortgage
borrowers. The gauge fell the most since July 13 yesterday.  
 China is unlikely to relax existing real-estate industry
policies “anytime soon” and the implementation of the measures
may curb a recent recovery in sales, disappointing investors,
BNP Paribas SA analysts led by  Frank Chen  said in a note today.  
 The government of China’s eastern Anhui province told
 Country Garden Holdings Co.  to stop work on a project in Chaohu
city after finding it breached several real-estate regulations,
Ming Pao reported today, citing a government spokesman it didn’t
identify. The company said in a statement that its project is
not involved in the breaches.  
 It’s “worth remembering that the CBRC is one of the few
economic policymaker bodies in China that values risk pre-
emption over growth,”  Jeff Coggshall , a London-based hedge fund
manager at Tiburon Partners LLP, said in an e-mail today. “They
have little to gain if China shows strong growth, but they have
a lot to lose if problems in the banking sector develop and
spread to other parts of the economy.”  
 -- Zhang Dingmin . With assistance from  Kongho Chua  in
Shanghai. Editors:  Chitra Somayaji ,  Mark McCord .  
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 Dzhang14@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 6 (Bloomberg) -- Nobel Prize-winning economist Joseph Stiglitz talked with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat yesterday about the outlook for China's economy.
     China’s economic growth eased to 10.3 percent in the second quarter after the government succeeded in tempering credit expansion, investment spending and property speculation. Stiglitz also discussed the mainland's currency policy. Bloomberg's Susan Li also speaks. (Excerpt. Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
