-- Cigarette Sales Drop Points to $12 Billion Tobacco Bond Defaults
-- Michael Quint
-- 2010-08-06T16:41:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/cigarette-sales-decline-points-to-tobacco-bond-defaults-sims-report-says.html

          
          
             Declining cigarette sales and
disputes over how much tobacco companies owe to U.S. states may
cause more than $12 billion of defaults on related bonds issued
by California, New York City, New Jersey, Ohio and Virginia.  
 Defaults on securities that are backed only by the tobacco-
company payments and were issued in 2006 and 2007 “could start
occurring as early as 2030,” according a report by  Richard Larkin , a senior vice-president at Herbert J. Sims & Co.  
 Payments  in April by tobacco companies, owed under a 1997
settlement of state lawsuits claiming damages for health-care
costs, fell 16 percent, according to the  National Association of
Attorneys General . Much of that decline stems from a 9 percent
slide in cigarette sales last year, more than twice the 4
percent drop assumed in some bond sales, said Larkin, who is
based in Iselin, New Jersey.  
 Tobacco bond defaults of $12 billion would be almost four
times the $3 billion of bonds that  Jefferson County , Alabama’s
sewer authority defaulted on. Municipal issuers failed to pay on
about $6.9 billion of bonds last year, according to the
Distressed Debt Securities newsletter.  
 State and federal tax increases have helped push cigarette
sales lower than were projected when the securities were issued.
New York State raised its cigarette tax by $1.60 a pack last
month, lifting the average price to about $10.80 in New York
City and $8.92 in other parts of the state, according to Erik
Kriss, a state Budget Division spokesman.  
 Local Levy  
 The average local levy has increased threefold since 2000,
from 41 cents to $1.35 a pack in February, according to a
Standard & Poor’s report. U.S. cigarette sales by major
manufacturers fell about 25 percent, to 16.2 billion packs of
20, through last year from 2000, the company said.  
 S&P said ratings on 122 tobacco bonds with a face value of
$26.8 billion and graded BBB or lower are under review for a
cut. All tobacco securities, including those under review, have
a negative outlook, the company said.  
 As cigarette sales fall, states are collecting less money
and aren’t able to repay tobacco securities as rapidly as was
projected when they were sold. Repayment of Buckeye Ohio Tobacco
Settlement Finance Authority’s 5 1/8 bonds due in 2024 was
expected by 2017, according to the official statement when they
were sold in 2007.  
 “I estimate those bonds won’t be repaid until 2024, and
then only by using reserve funds,” Larkin said.  
 The Buckeye securities traded today at about 82.1 cents on
the dollar to yield 7.19 percent in a transaction of more than
$1 million. Two months earlier, on June 2, the bonds were at
88.9 to yield 6.33 percent.  
 Bond Defaults  
 Bond defaults may come sooner than 2030 if states lose an
arbitration hearing in Chicago, in which tobacco companies are
seeking a $1.1 billion refund of payments. The companies claim
states didn’t do enough to collect payments from smaller
cigarette makers who aren’t part of the 1997 settlement with
states. If the arbitrator rules against the states, they may
eventually face losses of $6 billion, Larkin said.  
 Issuers warned about the risk of default when the bonds
were sold. A footnote on page 101 of a 2007 sale by California’s
Golden State Tobacco Securitization Corp. said if cigarette
sales fell more than 3.5 percent annually, the zero-coupon
bonds, which get paid only after senior debt, “may never be
paid.”  
 If senior bonds aren’t retired by the stated maturity,
investors may receive their money after a delay because payments
to states by tobacco companies continue in perpetuity, the
Herbert J. Sims analyst said.  
 Cigarette Sales  
 Larkin assumes cigarette sales will fall 4 percent
annually, and S&P analysts project yearly declines of 2.75
percent to 3.25 percent, after 2011.  
 The default risk is greatest for issues with the longest
maturities, most of which are zero-coupon debt due in 2047 or
longer, or are senior obligations with so-called turbo-
redemption calls for bonds to be retired before maturity, using
surplus tobacco-company payments not needed for interest or
principal on shorter-dated issues, Larkin said.  
 In many cases “the 2010 bond redemptions were less than
what were scheduled as stated sinking-fund retirements in the
bond documents,” Larkin’s report said.  
 Rhode Island, Louisiana and Washington, which sold debt in
2001 and 2002, will be able to retire their term bonds before
maturity if cigarette sales fall 4 percent annually.  
 The  Wells Fargo  Advantage municipal bond funds have
eliminated their  holdings  of long-term tobacco borrowings,
because many issuers can’t withstand the declines in cigarette
sales without suffering lower ratings, said  Lyle Fitterer , who
oversees municipal bond investments for Wells Capital Management
in Menomonee Falls, Wisconsin.  
 Cigarette sales are set to continue falling as states with
budget deficits seek revenue, Fitterer said. “Its just a matter
of time before they raise taxes again.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Quint  in Albany, New York, at 
 mquint@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Marlboro cigarettes  
                       
                         
                           JB Reed/Bloomberg News 
                         
                         Marlboro cigarettes are arranged for a photograph in Boston. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Marlboro cigarettes are arranged for a photograph in Boston. Photographer: JB Reed/Bloomberg News  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
