-- Citigroup Private Bank Triples Hedge-Fund Roster Beyond Paulson
-- Bradley Keoun
-- 2010-08-06T12:42:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/citigroup-private-bank-to-triple-hedge-fund-roster-for-client-investments.html

          
          
             Citigroup Inc. ’s private bank will
triple the number of hedge funds such as Paulson & Co. that its
wealthy clients can invest in, under a push to increase money-
management revenue.  
 The private bank will expand its HedgeForum service to
offer 75 hedge funds by the end of 2011 compared with 24 now,
said  David Bailin ,  Citi Private Bank’s  head of managed
investments. Customer assets on HedgeForum, which stood at $2.9
billion as of June 30, will rise by more than $1 billion this
year, and by a “multiple of that” during the next two years,
he said in an interview.  
 Executives at the private bank, which serves clients with
more than $25 million, are retooling HedgeForum after salvaging
it from among $465 billion of Citigroup assets tagged for sale
or closure, Bailin said. Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit ,
53, who announced plans to shrink Citigroup after a $45 billion
U.S. bailout in 2008, has shifted some businesses originally
marked for disposal back into other parts of the New York-based
company.  
 “The refocusing of the business is already being greeted
with a lot of success, in terms of both inquiries and new
business for Citi Private Bank,” said Bailin, 50.  
 Citi Private Bank, led by former McKinsey & Co. consultant
 Jane Fraser , took over HedgeForum in March, Bailin said. The
service vets hedge-fund managers on behalf of clients and then
acts as a conduit for their investments, he said.  
 Paulson, Brevan Howard  
 HedgeForum has 15 employees, Citigroup spokesman  Mark Costiglio  said. It’s led by Victoria Rock, who reports to
Bailin, he said. Francis “Frank” Frecentese, 41, and  Eric Siegel , 36, helped pick the fund managers on the platform as co-
heads of fund research, Costiglio said.  
 The managers include New York-based Paulson, the world’s
third-biggest hedge fund according to  Pensions & Investments 
magazine, people with direct knowledge of the matter said. The
fund, run by billionaire  John Paulson , 54, made $15 billion
betting on the decline in subprime mortgages in 2007.  
 Other funds offered through HedgeForum include London-based
Brevan Howard Asset Management LLP, the fourth-biggest hedge
fund, and New York-based GoldenTree Asset Management LP,
according to spokesmen at those firms. Citigroup doesn’t
identify the funds on HedgeForum’s roster.  
 Brazil, India, Eastern Europe  
 HedgeForum plans to add managers focused on emerging
markets including Brazil, India, Asia and Eastern Europe, Bailin
said. The bank will rely on a “network of knowledge and
contacts in the emerging markets, in terms of managers that we
know and the investment strategies that they apply,” he said.  
 Fraser , who served as Pandit’s strategy chief before taking
over as the private bank’s CEO in April 2009, has tried to
increase revenue from investment management. The push aims to
reduce the unit’s dependence on interest income from loans on
businesses, real estate, airplanes and art.  
 Citi Private Bank, which says it serves a third of the
world’s billionaires, reported $1 billion of revenue for the
first half of 2010, up 2 percent from the same period a year
earlier. It doesn’t disclose the breakdown of revenue between
lending and investing, and Bailin declined to detail
HedgeForum’s contribution. The world’s 1,011 billionaires
control $3.6 trillion, according to Forbes.  
 Transferred Out  
 Earlier this year, the private bank announced a plan to
double its ranks of advisers in North America to at least 230
during the next several years. Fraser has also hired executives
to lead the investing push, including Bailin, recruited from
 Bank of America Corp. ’s wealth-management business in December
2009.  
 In January 2009, when Pandit formed a new division called
Citi Holdings to encompass non-core businesses he planned to
eventually unload or close, HedgeForum was included. The company
also put its fund-of-hedge-funds business, a private-equity unit
and a commercial real-estate investing arm into the group.  
 While the three investing businesses were sold earlier this
year, Bailin and Fraser decided they could use HedgeForum to
manage their own clients’ hedge-fund investments, and arranged
to have it transferred out of Citi Holdings, Bailin said.  
 The transfer had no material impact on Citi Holdings’
balance sheet or cash flow, Citigroup spokeswoman  Shannon Bell 
said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Donal Griffin  in New York at 
 Dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
 Bradley Keoun  in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Vikram Pandit  
                       
                         
                           Daniel Acker/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Vikram Pandit, CEO of Citigroup Inc., speaks during The New York Forum in New York. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Vikram Pandit, CEO of Citigroup Inc., speaks during The New York Forum in New York. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 6 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Bradley Keoun reports on Citigroup Inc.’s private bank plans to triple the number of hedge funds such as Paulson & Co. that its wealthy clients can invest in, under a push to increase money-management revenue. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
