-- Codelco Says Tightening Measures to Slow China's Copper Demand This Half
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-08-06T14:06:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/codelco-says-china-copper-demand-to-slow-this-half-on-tightening-measures.html

          
          
             Codelco, the world’s largest copper
producer, said demand in China for the metal will slow in this
half because of government measures to tighten lending and curb
inflation.  
 Prices will “fluctuate” at current levels, Chief
Executive Officer  Diego Hernandez  said in an interview in
Shanghai today. The Chilean state-owned company may consider
sales agreement with Chinese companies, though it won’t sell
stakes in its mines, he also said.  
 Steel and copper demand in China, the biggest consumer, has
slipped as the government tightened real-estate lending and
cracked down on speculation since mid-April. The weakest
manufacturing data in more than a year for July indicates the
world’s largest exporter is having a “slowdown not a
meltdown,” according to HSBC Holdings Plc economist Qu Hongbin.  
 “The Chinese are worried about controlling inflation, and
they want to have a GDP growth target at 9 percent, not 11
percent,” said Hernandez. “That could slow down the demand a
little, but I don’t see it for a long period.”  
 Copper for September delivery fell 0.55 cent, or 0.2
percent, to $3.348 a pound at 9:20 a.m. on the Comex in New
York. Construction accounts for a quarter of demand, according
to the Copper Development Association.  
 “The big bull run we’ve experienced in 2003-2008 may not
occur again,” said  Pang Ying , an analyst at Shenzhen Rongtuo
Trading Co. “China, Europe, and the U.S. expanded at a fast
pace at that time, and we probably won’t see that again in the
next few years.”  
 Accelerating Inflation  
 China’s inflation accelerated to 3.3 percent in July, the
fastest pace in 21 months, according to economists’ median
estimate before an Aug. 11 announcement. The banking regulator
told lenders to include worst-case scenarios of property prices
dropping 50 percent to 60 percent in cities where they have
risen excessively, a person with knowledge of the matter said.  
 Property stocks fell the most in three weeks in  Shanghai 
yesterday as the test assumption signaled the government may be
growing more concerned about the health of the market.  
 Still, Codelco is “optimistic” about the  copper  market
because new supplies will be crimped as mining companies are
reluctant to take on debt for expansion plans, Hernandez said.  
 The global financial crisis was a “tough experience” and
has made the industry “very conservative,” he said. Producers
need to know prices will stay at similar levels to current rates
to fund new investments, he said.  
 Debt Funding  
 “I don’t think the industry is ready to increase their
debt to finance those projects,” said Hernandez. “That in a
way is also delaying investment decisions and keeping supply and
demand quite tight.”  
 Codelco plans to invest $15 billion over five years to
increase its output to about 2 million metric tons. The company
last year made record investments in its aging mines after four
years of declining production.  
 The company plans to get $1 billion to $1.5 billion a year
from bank loans and bonds, and the balance of the spending will
come from its own cash, Hernandez said today. The state-owned
company is prohibited by law to sell equity stakes, he said.  
 “For this year and next year, the balance of the money
will mainly come from the financial market, and on the medium
and long term, we need to see how our owners want to
recapitalize,” he said.  
 Stake Sale  
 Chile should debate the possibility of bringing in private
capital to improve Codelco’s competitiveness, Mining Minister
 Laurence Golborne  said in May. Chilean President  Sebastian Pinera  dropped a campaign proposal to sell a minority stake last
year after facing opposition from labor unions and rival
politicians. He took office on March 11.  
 Codelco probably will sell bonds and may sell assets to
fund part of a $2.4 billion investment program this year after
Chile’s government opted not to reinvest the state-owned
company’s 2009 profit, Chairman  Gerardo Jofre  said in a June 18
interview. Chile’s government is seeking to raise $8.4 billion
to help pay for the reconstruction of infrastructure damaged in
February’s 8.8-magnitude earthquake.  
 Hernandez, who took the top spot this year after serving as
head of BHP Billiton Ltd.’s base metals division, said June 2
that Codelco may raise $600 million to $800 million selling its
40 percent stake in power company E-CL SA within the next 18
months.  
 The company is focused on expanding its copper mines now,
though it plans to look at overseas ventures outside of its main
business in three to four years, Hernandez said today.  
 Codelco wants to increase its proportion of concentrates
output to the metal, and may trim utilization at its smelters,
he said. The company doesn’t plan to invest in new smelting
capacity or shut plants, he said.  
 -- Helen Yuan  and  Helen Sun . Editors:  Carlos Caminada ,  Robin Saponar .  
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Codelco Says China Copper Demand to Slow  
                       
                         
                           Qilai Shen/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Diego Hernandez, chief executive officer of Codelco, speaks during an interview in Shanghai. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Diego Hernandez, chief executive officer of Codelco, speaks during an interview in Shanghai. Photographer: Qilai Shen/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
